Imagine how a woman feels. Imagine how soft and warm her skin feels. Imagine the sweet
smell of her perfume. Imagine her tenderly pressing her soft lips against yours. Imagine
her letting you get on top of her and insert your **** inside her, softly moaning as it
slides in. Imagine the walls of her tight, soft, warm **** wrapped around every inch
of your ****. Imagine her breathing getting heavier with every thrust. Imagine her wrapping
her arms and legs around you, holding you as close as she possibly can and begging you
to **** inside her as you release every ounce of your **** into her. Then imagine the feeling
of pure satisfaction and peace that comes afterwards and looking beside you to see a
person that cares about you and has accepted you in the most intimate way possible. You
will never get to experience this because your skeleton is too small or the bones in
your face are not the proper shape. Have a nice day.
Hello, boys. Let's talk about bone structure. There's something basically Soviet about the way
the internet names things. Stalin had portmanteaus like Ajitprop, Politburo, and Compromat, and we
have webinar, podcast, and incel, short for involuntary celibate. The word incel was invented
in the late 90s by a lonely bisexual called Alana, who created a website called Alana's
Involuntary Celibacy Project. It was essentially a safe space for people who just couldn't get it
in. But in our own miserable moment of internet history, the word incel refers to a more specific
community of mostly heterosexual men centered around forums like incel.me and r slash brain
cells. This group has recently gotten a lot of bad press because for the last few years they've been
churning out mass murderers faster than Marvel can make Avengers movies. But most incels aren't
violent killers, they're just men who've formed an identity around not getting laid. In this video
I don't want to mock incels or lecture them or even sympathize with them, I just want to understand
who they are and why they're like this. To start with, sometimes the best way to understand a
person's world is to learn their language. And the language of the incels… well, you'll see.
First base, incels. Does it ever bother you that the word women makes adult females sound just a
little bit too human? Well, incels have a solution to that. They've taken to calling women female.
The choice of vocabulary tells us how incels think of women, not as sisters or mothers and
certainly not as autonomous people, but as a kind of foreign and scruitable object comparable to a
natural resource, unobtenium, to which incels believe all men are entitled and to which they
feel they have been unjustly denied. There's a long tradition of nerdy men talking about women
in nerdily misogynistic ways, and reminded of famed rocket scientist Werner von Braun's remark
about female astronauts. We are reserving 110 pounds of payload for recreational equipment.
Which is not to say that alpha males are less misogynistic than nerds, but simply that nerds
have a nerdy style of misogyny. Now, femoid is about as neutral a term as incels have for women,
and it's only downhill from there. There's the usual standbys, bitches, sluts, whores,
all conveying a searing resentment of female sexuality, the pinnacle of which is represented
by the bespoke incel coinage, roasty. Which I'm sorry to inform you refers to the incel belief
that the human vulva become mutilated through repeated penetration by different men, though
not through repeated penetration by the same man, interestingly, and thereby come to resemble
roast beef. Now, by definition, incels haven't actually observed any vaginas, but to incels,
anatomy is more a matter of metaphysical speculation than crude science. Though,
if you ask me, the right metaphor for a veteran vag is not roast beef, but sour grapes. Of course,
not all femoids are created equal. There are various subspecies.
The becky or normie femoid is to be contrasted with the stacy, or sexually desirable femoid,
whose distinguishing features include makeup on point, never works a day in her life,
naturally curvy body gives men instant erections, big tips and ass show fertility.
Leave my buns alone, you savages. The stacy, naturally, has a male counterpart,
whom incels call the chad. A chad is a hunky alpha whose hands are always prepared to grab
nearby fertile pussy. He has never heard a song in his entire life. He has a sloped forehead with
a strong brow, ram bow chin, strong jawline, flat occipital plate. It must needs be remarked
that the skull of the chad exhibited a brow ridge most pronounced, whereas the skull of the virgin
is most inadequate in this regard, predisposing such specimens to an abject existence of lamentation
and cuckoldry. It's time to talk about bone structure, according to a classic incel meme.
The difference between chad and non-chad is literally a few millimeters of bone.
I would like to propose a sociological theory. Fappington's Law. Once bigotry or self-loathing
permeate a given community, it is only a matter of time before deep metaphysical significance
is assigned to the shape of human skulls. Why skulls, you ask? Well, the best explanation I
can come up with is that a skull is inanimate and unchangeable. It's therefore the perfect symbol of
the intrinsic and permanent characteristics that bigots like to assign to certain groups of people.
If you believe, for example, that a certain race or gender is intellectually inferior,
you can justify your belief by pointing to the shape of a skull and saying,
well, that's the reason why. It's just nature. There's nothing that can be done about it. And
that is exactly the way incels think about love and celibacy. Mankind is divided into two groups
of people, the chads with the fuckable skulls and the incels whose bones come up a few millimeters
short. Corn dog? Anyone? I'm really hungry. Of course, it's not just the skulls the incels
blame for their sexlessness. They have a whole dictionary of jargon explaining the causes of
involuntary celibacy. Height cells are incel due to their inferior stature, whereas mental cells
can't attract women because of mental illness or autism or their addicts and then called drug cells.
Wrist cells, on the other hand, are doomed by their overly delicate wrists. Now obsessing about
your wrist size does seem a little weird. Oh, yeah? Is it a little weird that the average dildo
has more girth than my wrist? Is it weird at all that some men have thicker dicks than my wrist?
But yeah, obviously obsessing about my tiny wrists that are smaller than even many women's
is completely irrational body dysmorphia. And the reason why no one wants to be with me or even
talk to me is my shitty personality. Even though literal 80 IQ men who have nothing to talk about
except who won the game last night are still able to attract a loving partner. Interesting.
A significant number of incels are not white, in which case their unfuckability is attributed to
race and they are accordingly termed apologies in advance, black cells, rice cells, curry cells,
and so on. Which is not to say that all non-white men are celibate. There are of course the occasional
chads of color with their superior skulls and towering stature, whom the incels have christened
tyrones, changs, and chad priests. I'm so sorry. So you can be incel because of your looks,
your height, your mind, or your race, but what unites them all is the conviction that love and
sex are forever out of reach. Unless of course you delusionally imagine that you can ascend,
that is escape your incel dome. If you falsely and pathetically believe that there is any
possibility of improvement, well that makes you the lowest of the low. A sad and sorry hope cell.
Second base, the red pill. So we have the building blocks of the incel worldview,
the stasis, the chads, the incels, and the normies. From these elements, incels have constructed a
theory of human nature and sexuality, which they call the red pill. Incels share the red pill
worldview with the rest of the manosphere, that is, pickup artists, men's rights activists,
and the voluntary celibate community known as men going their own way, abbreviated MGTOW.
According to red pill theory, women are by nature hypergamous. Hypergamy, new Greek for marrying
above, refers to the practice of seeking relationships with men above one's social status,
and also an incel usage above one's attractiveness. According to incels, physical attractiveness is
naturally distributed equally between the sexes, so if you were to assign numerical ratings to
attractiveness, as incels like to do, there would be about as many, say, 8 out of 10 women as 8 out
of 10 men. Incels believe that in a just world, a 5 out of 10 man would naturally wind up in a
relationship with his looks match, that is, a 5 out of 10 woman, equivalently attractive to himself.
But sadly, this just system has been ruined by hypergamous women, who, regardless of their own
attractiveness, are only interested in dating Chad. Incels sometimes call this the 80-20 rule,
the idea that only the top 20% of men will ever be desired by women. Now, since most heterosexual
men do end up in relationships with women, you might be raising your eyebrow with that idea.
But incels have an explanation. According to the Red Bull theory, women often pursue a mating
strategy called alpha-fucks-beta-box. This means that in her 20s, a woman will, as incels say,
ride the cock carousel, sleeping with as many Chads as possible. But as she ages into her 30s,
she will settle down with a beta normie whom she's not really attracted to, but whom she will use for
financial support, all the while continuously cuckolding him on the alpha-cock carousel before
inevitably abandoning him, taking him for everything he's worth on a divorce settlement, and running
off to the Mediterranean with all the children and a new Chad boyfriend, while the beta cock is left
behind to fester in alimony payments, solitude, and poverty. So the upshot of the Red Bull theory
is that for men, there are three possible outcomes. Either you're an incel, doomed to a lifetime of
excruciating loneliness and resentment, or you're a normie, destined to wind up in a sexless marriage
with an unfaithful wife who will divorce you, win custody of the children, and run off with all your
money. Or you could be an alpha, an independent, promiscuous man who sleeps with lots of women
and forms attachments to none of them. In the Red Bull philosophy, there are two ways to become alpha.
The first is simply to be a Chad by nature. The second is to become a pickup artist.
Red Bull pickup artists believe basically the same things about women that incels believe,
that they are hypergamous, duplicitous, and fuckable, but not lovable. The difference is
that pickup artists are not celibate. In fact, they try to have sex with as many women as possible
by following a series of strategies and scripts known as game, as described by the book of that
title, as well as by the Red Bull pickup artist Ruch V, author of a book called Bang! A New Mascara
from Benefit. So the tube is bomb. I am living. Let's see what the wand looks like. Oh,
it's so big. I wonder what Ruch is up to lately. I bake my own bread. Yes, I am outing myself as
a baker, as someone who likes to cook. I'm not a woman. I am ultra masculine, as you can see,
but baking and cooking in general is a scientific thing. And men like scientific things. I used to
be a scientist. Well, Ruch, you know what? If it means you leave women alone, I hope you enjoy
your new life as an ultra masculine baker. Sorry, I mean bread scientist. So remember,
the red pill is the realization that women are hypergamous by nature, 20% or less of men are
really attractive to women, dating as a sexual marketplace, and feminism is a pretext for
enabling women to behave however they want while consigning men to emasculation and impotence.
The black pill is the additional realization that one's place in the sexual marketplace is
genetically determined, that one is a permanent virgin, that sex and relationships are forever
out of reach, and hence that happiness is impossible, and there's nothing one can do
except lie down and rot. The black pill is essentially dogmatic hopelessness about dating
and about life in general. It's the pinnacle of what psychotherapists call catastrophizing,
a cognitive distortion where anxiety or depression leads you to infer apocalyptic
conclusions from mundane setbacks and anxieties. For instance, a catastrophizing person might
begin with the thought, oh no, I'm going to be late for work, and from there infer,
my boss is going to be angry, I'm going to lose my job, I'm not going to be able to get another job,
I'm going to be unemployed forever, my family will starve, oh god we're all going to die.
Each step in this sequence is sort of plausible, but the leap from step one to step seven is
completely absurd. This is exactly how the black pill works. You start with experiences of rejection
and isolation. From there, you infer that you are unattractive to women, that you will never
be attractive to any woman, that you will be forever alone, that you will always be unhappy,
that women did this to you, that feminism empowered women to do this to you, that the
social trends that made this possible are only getting worse, that humanity itself is doomed and
your only option is to lie down and rot. Of course, not all incels take things quite so far,
but a lot of them do. On incel forums suicidal ideation is very common, and posts are often
tagged sua fuel or rope fuel, meaning that they make you want to kill yourself, usually because
they're reminders of how hopeless the incel situation is, or how devastating it is that
incels are missing out on the incredible bliss of sex and romance. Now if you suggest to incels that
posting sua fuel on forums already populated by lonely and depressed people is maybe not the most
responsible idea, they respond that oh it's just dark humor, it's just a cope, throws a bone here.
But a lot of the suicidal stuff shows no signs of humor, and it's common to see people express
pretty extreme states of depression, which is not surprising, since hopelessness is the
logical conclusion of the black pill world video. One's possibility for happiness is determined by
the genetics of height, frame, and facial bone structure, and if you don't have these gifts,
there's no relief but to cope or rope. Now it's pretty tempting to just mom the shit out of these
kids. You want to grab them by their black ops t-shirts, shake them a bit, and tell them there
are millions of men with small wrists and weak chins getting laid every day, that they're their
own worst enemies, that they need to get off the computer, go outside, make some friends,
stop hating women, get some hobbies, and who knows, maybe they'll develop a disposition
that women find a little more approachable. Essentially you want to tell them clean your
room bucko. In fact for the young men in this demographic who are receptive to that kind of
advice, Jordan Peterson is probably helpful because he's telling them a lot of what they need to hear
and he's kind of a sexist old man so they might actually listen. But most incels don't want to
hear this kind of advice. In fact they view it as essentially a microaggression. You are in effect
Chad explaining their oppression to them when you give basic advice like take a shower, be more
confident, to people who have already experienced a lifetime of rejection and isolation and who
believe they've already tried everything. So they despise this kind of advice and devote endless
posts to bitterly mocking the futility and insensitivity of it. Just go out to parties bro.
Instead of hating on women all day why don't you losers just try being confident like this average
looking guy. Confidence is key. You incels need some hobbies. Try reading some books.
Women love intelligence. It works for me bro. Aw you just need to get out more.
No one knows what it's like to be hated. To incels their worldview seems iron clad.
It has built in defenses against anyone who would try to change their minds.
So if you want to understand incels and in particular if you want to understand why their
community produces so many mass murderers you have to understand that the black pill
is more than the dogma that you can't get laid. It's also the dogma that because you can't get
laid you can never be happy. So what we have in our hands here is more than a bunch of angry
internet misogynists. It's at worst a kind of death cult complete with an eternal hell and
an omnipotent enemy. It is not surprising that that state of mind leads a few of them to conclude
that since triumph is impossible why not try revenge?
Third base. Tinder is garbage. I know I said I wasn't going to sympathize with incels and I
know they don't want my sympathy anyway and I know it's bad praxis to sympathize with the devil
but on some level I can't help it. The internet is for introverts so I'm sure a lot of people
watching this feel the same way. I bet some of you have been this guy. I have been this guy.
So look I'm gonna tell you something I've never really come out about on this channel so this is
like a really vulnerable moment for me but I used to live as a man and I'm not proud of that but
I'm ready to move on if you're ready to forgive. I'm in the unusual situation of being a woman who
dates men who used to be a man who dates women. What kind of fucked up shit is that? Is that even
allowed? Alright cop down lesbian stans I'm still attracted to women and those who lies betwixt.
Cats. The inherent eroticism of the sea.
Yeah don't you just want to get in there? Take me mommy. But I have been on a heterosexual kick
lately. I gotta get my hetero on. What I'm getting at is I've used Tinder both as a man seeking women
and as a woman seeking men and I think that gives me some relevant experiences. When you're a man
the strategy is you've got to send a lot of messages because women get a lot of messages
and then you just gotta try to be less of an ogre than the other fuck boys. Whereas if you're a
woman you get to lie recumbent on your chaise log and receive the inquiries. Let's see how we're
doing here. How many men have liked me on Tinder? I'm paying $30 for this information so this better
be good. I have 2,500 likes. That's a lot of Baltimorean men who swiped right on a tran.
What a divine city.
Aw that's so nice of them to be interested in me. Let's see what kind of messages I got.
Dick or no dick. Preoper post op. Did you cut your dick off? Oh my god. I'm gonna cut it off
okay Jesus. I will let you smash my pussy so so hard. If you just be patient. It's a whole process.
That's not a pussy. That's a fuckhole. You'll never know what it's like to squeeze life out of
your sacred passage. Well that's true. I am not going to be squeezing any life out unless something
goes very seriously wrong and I assure you that none of the passages I have down there have ever
been or ever will be sacred. Abigail, leave my fuckhole out of this. When I first started using
this app I was messaging with a guy who seemed super chill. He was going to take me to a concert.
I was like seems like a lot for a first day but we'll try it. 15 minutes after we agreed to that
he sends me a message. What color panties are you wearing? I would love to smell them.
Can we get coffee first? The hell of it is. I probably would have let him smell my panties
but this is the thing you bring up on the third fuck. You don't open with panty sniffing. Like the
only point of in-app messaging is for me to figure out if you're gonna murder me
and you're already fucking it up. So this is the experience of women on tinder. We're drowning in
dick and most of it is terrible. Not all. I do have some very sweet messages and I haven't been
using the app in a couple months so if I didn't respond to you or if we didn't match it's not
because I rejected you. It's because I don't like the app. People screenshot my profile and they
post it online and they call me cotra points and like aren't I just too famous for this shit? My
life is hard. So girls, we do a lot of complaining about the firing squad of bad dicks that's
constantly pointed at us in dating apps but how would you feel if instead of that you were just
getting radio silence like the incels get? I can't speak for other women but personally
I prefer the firing squad of dicks, you know? At least these pricks care enough about my pussy
to be an asshole about my dick. I feel sorry for men on dating apps. I really do. You have to deal
with a lot of rejection and that must be difficult and these apps are especially brutal to people who
aren't photogenic. If you're meeting people at a bar or a party you might strike up a conversation
with someone who you're not initially physically attracted to but then maybe they're super funny
or charming or maybe they're attracted to me and that's an attractive quality in another person
that they appreciate how beautiful I am. But on Tinder you're just browsing a catalog of faces
and gatekeeping who even gets to talk to you in the first place. Red pillars have a really gross
way of talking about dating in terms of sexual market value but like dating kind of is a
marketplace or at least you can analyze it like one and our culture is so visual these apps are
so picture-centered that bone structure like it's not the only thing that matters but it matters a
great deal. And this is where I do have sympathy for the incels because as a trans woman I know
what it's like to obsess over millimeters of bone. I actually had to interrupt work on this video to
go to a consultation for facial feminization surgery so I can pay luxury car amounts of money
to shave off a few millimeters of bone hair there because it must needs be remarked that the skull
of the female exhibited the brow ridge less pronounced. I mean I'm just as obsessed with
bone structure as the goddamn incels because I think certain parts of my face make me look like
a man and I worry about it every day. We're all obsessed with the bones honey. We all have bones
inside us. We all love touching bones. You want to take a measurement from the super orbital ridge
to the lambdoid suture and multiply that figure by pi to calculate what we call the Chad circumference.
Why is no one talking about the Chad circumference? Fourth base, just the tip. There's another way I
think my experience as a trans woman is relevant to the incel discussion and that's that I
recognized delusional self-loathing when I see it. I'm far from the first to point out that the
supreme gentleman incel mass murderer Elliot Rodger was, apart from his narcissistic psychopath
personality, an eminently bangable twink. Now I'm not going to show you pictures of incels but on
their forums they do sometimes post selfie threads and you can't say this on incel forums without
enraging them but in confidence from one pretend clinician to another let me tell you that the
truth about incels is that almost all of them are completely normal looking guys but of course
that's not the feedback they get from other incels. The feedback they get is that their
chins are weak, their hair is thin, their skin is garbage and there's no hope whatsoever,
no woman will ever love them and there are true selves with no option but to lie down and rot.
And the interesting thing is those guys post selfies to those threads knowing that's the
kind of feedback they're going to get. So why? Why do they do it? Well I'll tell you a little story.
There is a website on the internet called 4chan.org that has a board called LGBT. A few years ago this
was used mainly by the 25 gay men who actually like Milo Yiannopoulos but recently it's used mostly by
men who are entertaining the notion of becoming women and by early transition trans women so the
board is jokingly called TTTT. Now I've recently moved beyond that first stage of my transition
but the memory is still fresh and let me tell you it is a painful awkward humiliating stage of
life. So the trans women of TTTT are tragic. They're basically still in man mode which is why
they're using 4chan and I bring them up because they remind me a lot of incels. For incels the
core frustration is that they can't get laid. For TTTT it's that they can't pass as female. Both
groups post selfies knowing they're going to get brutal unconstructive feedback and both groups
have a weird vocabulary with which to express their anxieties. For instance on TTTT a major
piece of jargon is hun, a slur used by trans women for other trans women which basically means that
you look like a man in a dress which is what every trans woman is afraid of. And there's another
commonality with incels too with all bigots and self-loathers which if you've been paying
attention you've already guessed. You will never be seen as a woman because of your head size.
Have all the surgeries in the world. Your massive man noggin will stay the same. Well this freak
thinks he has very soft facial features. His head is fucking huge. Well and the huns on reddit are
hugboxing him and telling him that there are women with big heads. Uh no there aren't. There aren't
fucking women with heads to do that. And FFS won't change shit. You might as well repress.
You transition with a man's head. You will be clocked. You will be looked at as a freak.
You will never be seen as a legit woman 100%. This is why I'm not transitioning. Thank you
skull people for showing me the way and that no matter what I do I will always be a manly man
skull wise. You saved me the embarrassment of being a literal big-headed man in a dress.
Tis evident the cranial vault of the autogynophile be much more voluminous and the facial plane
wider. It always comes back to the skulls every time. The other interesting thing about TTTT
is I used to get posted there a lot. For a while I had some stans on the board who basically viewed
me as inspiration. Yikes. Because of course that kind of post is frowned upon. If I'm not looked
at as a big skulled manly freak, if my transition is going well, that means that some of their
transitions might go well too. And that is an unacceptable conclusion for a community founded
on self-loathing and hopelessness. So it was necessary for the rest of the board to explain
why I didn't pass, why I would never pass, and why anyone who looked less good than me
shouldn't even fucking think about it. They shouldn't transition at all. They should just
repress. They should lie down and rot. And I used to read this stuff all the time. Like,
I would specifically seek out threads about me. Which might seem strange, considering I had
hundreds of fans telling me I was a gorgeous goddess every day. So why did I turn away from that
to intentionally seek out this dismal den of Huns talking about how my giant Hun skull is clockable
at a thousand paces and my voice sounds like a ridiculous muppet falsetto hybrid of Mickey Mouse
and Winnie the Pooh? Well basically there is part of my brain that just simply refused to believe
it when people told me I was gorgeous. And for semi-plausible reasons. A lot of trans people
on the internet tell other trans people they look gorgeous no matter what they look like.
That's where the word Hun comes from. You look great Hun.
So what TTTT is saying about Reddit hugboxing is true to some extent. There is a kind of
a priori and dogmatic flattery that prevails in some trans spaces. So I came to regard all
compliments as everyone is beautiful. Politically correct cuckoldry. And there would be this thrill
of going to TTTT and reading other people saying what my deepest anxieties told me was really true.
And that was always painful. But there was a kind of pleasure too. There was a rush. It's exciting
to burst out of the politically correct bubble and say what you're really thinking. That personality
doesn't matter because big skulled chads get all the girls. That ContraPoints is a big skulled Hun
with a voice like nails on a chalkboard. And at first I justified the habit by telling myself I
was just doing research. I have to keep tabs on what the bigots are saying. It's simply my job.
But soon I realized it wasn't just research. And it was infecting me away from the computer. This
ridiculous vocabulary. Huns. AGP. Was popping up in my head at unexpected times. It was starting to
color how I thought about myself. And worse, it was starting to infect how I thought about other
trans women. And that's the moment I realized I need to stop looking at this stuff right now or
I'm going to become a monster. And once that happens, it's going to be very difficult to fix.
This is exactly how the incel black pill works. There's something infectious about these
vocabularies. Like on days I've been working on this video, I'll go out at night and these words
just involuntarily show up in my thoughts. That bartender is such a Chad. He's totally
height blocking that tiny cock. And the tragic thing is some incels don't realize what this
is doing to their minds until it's too late. Let's face it, black pills are sooey fuel. And
a lot of us can't handle them. I gleefully indulged in this subreddit the moment I discovered it since
I loved uncovering secrets that society had been hiding from me. But it has affected my mental
health in a bad way. I made my first call to the suicide hotline a few weeks ago and I've never
needed to do that before. I could always talk myself out of it through logic but my mind is
ruined now. This is a form of what psychologists are calling digital self-harm. Prototypically
teens who leave themselves abusive comments from sock puppet accounts. But the more sophisticated
adult version of this involves intentionally seeking out abusive and disparaging comments
about yourself made by other people. I have a long history of doing this. Intentionally looking for
abusive comments, especially ones that cut to the core of my deepest insecurities and fears.
Why? I don't know. Why do people cut themselves? Part of it is what we could call masochistic
epistemology. Whatever hurts is true. I've recently gotten much better about this. I haven't been to
any of the worst places in a couple months. And my mental health is much improved. So incels,
I'm not going to respond to your worldview like it's an intellectual position worthy of rational
debate. Because these ideas and arguments, you're not using them the way rational people use
arguments. You're using them as razor blades to abuse yourselves. And I know because I've done
the exact same thing. The incel worldview is catastrophizing. It's an anxious death spiral.
And the solution to that has to be therapeutic, not logical. A lot of you are lonely. You've been
bullied and neglected. You feel left behind by society. But what you're doing when you're reading
incel forums is you're slowly internalizing a cruel and distorted way of looking at yourselves
and at other people in your situation. And at women. And you're forming mental habits that are
going to make it very difficult for you to live a happy life. So what you have to do is get off
those forums as fast as possible. I'm going to post a link in the description of this video
to instructions on how to block certain websites from your computer. Because for me, that's what
it took. Fifth base, anal. So the incel reddit transgender 4chan analogy has a limit. And that
limit is that for a significant subset of the incel community, their primary hatred is not
directed at themselves, but at women. And they really hate women. Like I'm basically a professional
internet bigotry scholar at this point. I look at this kind of stuff all the time. But researching
this video, I was honestly kind of shocked at the intensity of misogyny on incel forums. I won't
show the worst of it, but we're talking blaming women for rape, saying they deserve to be raped,
calls for state mandated girlfriends and sex slaves, but most of all just a kind of
generalized misinformed rage. I hate women. I really do. Every time I look at them, my blood
pressure shoots through the roof when they're gabbing on the cell phone about Paris Hilton,
when they're adjusting their lipstick and taking up my time rifling through their stupid purse,
when they whine to me about their period, when they blither on and on about some artist,
film director, musician nobody gives a flipping fuck about, when they cry and expect your personal
sympathy. But most of all, I hate them because they're smug, hyperactive little bitches made that
way by our shithole society. Look what uncontrolled feminism and the media has done. Hi Stacey. It's
Tracy. While I was at the mall the other day with Amber, Heather, Jenna and Trish, and we were
talking about Paris Hilton, a very relevant cultural figure in 2018, they live in this cartoon
caricature world where it's easy to avoid thinking of women as fully human. That's where my sympathy
runs dry because this kind of hatred just needs a spark to turn to violence. So incels, I know
you're not going to listen to anything I say and you're just going to say that I'm a tranny and a
faggot and a degenerate. And to that I say, how dare you say things that are entirely true? But also,
vole soul if you wouldn't, bitches. And I know you don't listen to suggestions about how you
probably actually could have healthy relationships, so no one can really reach you until you get out
of those forums and allow yourselves to be reached. But by way of a closing remark, I guess I simply
invite you to consider that you don't even need a warm body or a sex robot to satisfy the erotic
longing. You know, when I was your age, in 1975, every teenage boy had a Stratocaster in his bedroom.
That was the outlet for his sexual frustration. What I'm suggesting is the manosphere exists
because rock and roll is dead. But there's other options. Think about the eroticism of a rainstorm,
the clap of thunder, the rustle of leaves, the steam rising off the warm pavement.
And whether you're a Chad, a Stacy, an Insel, or a Hun, you could always return to the caress
of our dark mother, the sea, whose salty embrace envelops every contour of your naked body.
Ooh, is it hot in here or is it just me?
