Comfort ye, comfort ye, my subscribers, so saith your goddess, for it is I, the digital
messiah, the online oracle, the social media saviour, yea, verily I say unto you, there
are influencers abiding in the feed, keeping watch over their followers by night, and alone
I came upon them, and the glory of my posts taught about me, and I delivered unto them
a vision.
Freedom, freedom, fuck in freedom, which matters more, the freedom to live an authentic life
or the freedom to crush degenerates under the heel of a jack-boo. As a centrist, I am
undecided, but the important thing is we are talking about it. Hi, I'm Jackie Jackson, host
of The Freedom Report, the political talk show where we discuss important issues like Mexicans.
How dangerous are they? Muslims, can we stop them? Tonight we return once again to the dangerous
transgender trend that is turning your children into all manner of half and halfs and in-betweens.
I mean look at this, they're transing 13 year olds now, what's next? Babies with breast implants?
It makes me want to throw up. I live in constant fear, and fear is what freedom is all about.
Cut the music. Tonight my first guest is Tiffany Tumbles, transgender makeup vlogger and
conservative opinion haver, and my second guest, well what the hell are you? You're transgender,
you're a man, you're a woman, you're an attack helicopter, what's your deal? Well Jackie Jackson,
my, as you say, deal, is I don't like society forcing me into tiny little boxes. Okay, but are
you a man or a woman? Just tell me. Well why does it matter? Why do you have to know? Maybe you
should examine why it is you feel the need to fit everyone you meet into these little categories.
Jackie Jackson. Well can I at least ask your name or is that now considered cisgender imperialism?
My name is Baltimore. Baltimore what? Baltimore Maryland. I'm sorry, your name is Baltimore
Maryland? It is among my names. Tiffany, what do you make of this? Look Jackie, I'm gonna be
completely real with you. I am a transsexual, that means I have a very specific mental disorder
called gender dysphoria. I was born a boy, but I have a female brain because of a hormone imbalance
in the womb. This is a real psychiatric disorder that is verified by science and requires hormones
and surgery for treatment or else I literally cannot function. It is not a fashion statement,
it is not a trend, it is not an easy way to feel special and oppressed. It is a very difficult
condition to live with. I'm dying inside. Okay, so you're both transsexuals then. Now I am a
transsexual. That is not a transsexual. That is a trans-trender. Trans-trender? Well what is that?
Is that a gender? No, it's not a gender. A trans-trender is a person like Baltimore over here
who puts on a dress and puts glitter on his beard and goes around telling people he's transgender
and complaining about misgendering for oppression points. Actually, it's they. What? I use they
them pronouns. They go around collecting oppression points, as you can see. Why do you say that,
Tiffany Tumbles? Have I complained about oppression so far? It seems to me that it is you who has been
complaining about your dysphoria. Isn't it you who is collecting oppression points, Tiffany Tumbles?
No, I'm not saying I'm oppressed. I'm saying I have dysphoria, which is not society's fault.
It's in my brain. I was diagnosed. It's a fact. It's real. My pain is real. And my pain isn't real?
It's interesting that you think that. Well, what pain are you talking about? People making fun of
you because you dress like a circus act? Interesting that you mentioned the circus,
Tiffany Tumbles. Don't you think we should examine why society confines gender-variant people to the
circus? You're not confined anywhere. You choose to dress like that. And why do you choose to dress
the way you dress? Because I'm a woman, so I'm dressed like a woman. Hello. And I'm non-binary,
so I dress non-conforming. Why should I conceal who I am just to appease small-minded people?
Well, it's a free country. If you want to be a glitter of your gender fuck, then go ahead.
But don't go around telling people that you're transgender because it makes us all look like a
bunch of trendy freaks. But aren't we all freaks in the eyes of society? Do you think you can
purchase acceptance through conformity? Because that is not freedom, Tiffany Tumbles. That is
simply adding another cell to the prison. It's not about conforming. It's about me having an actual
medical condition. You do not have a female brain. You have a fashion disaster. Oh, do they?
Well, tell me, Tiffany Tumbles. When the doctor prescribed your hormones, did he
take a look at your brain then? What? Of course not. But you have seen a scan of your brain, yes?
Well, no. Where are you going with this? I mean, if you've never seen your brain and the doctor
who diagnosed your gender dysphoria didn't look at it, then tell me, Tiffany Tumbles,
how do you know that you have a female brain?
Well, shit, that's a good point. No, it isn't. Look, there's scientific studies. Can you explain
to me the difference between a male brain and a female brain? Are they different colors?
I'm not an expert, but there's science showing that men and women have brain differences.
I see, but your doctor never looked at your brain. So how did he know that you have gender dysphoria?
Well, he asked me questions and I told him about it. And you told him what exactly?
That I experienced gender dysphoria. So would you agree then that your gender dysphoria,
and therefore your identity, is valid not because of any observed facts about your brain, but
because of your...
feelings? Well, congratulations, Attorney Frankenfurter. You backed me into a corner.
Sure. It's because of my feelings. My feelings of gender dysphoria. So tell me, Tiffany Tumbles,
why is it that your feelings about your gender are valid, but mine, according to you, are not?
This burgeoning brick. You guys, let's think about this. If I have never seen my brain,
how do I know I even have a brain? Well, you probably don't, girl. Look, Baltimore, I'm sure
you have lots of feelings about your gender. And if you feel cloud gender, or demi nebula,
or astroglide, or whatever Tumblr bullshit passes through your mind, then you do you, girl. Or not
girl. Whatever the fuck you are. But I want to make one thing very clear. I am nothing like you,
okay? My gender is not unicorns and glitter. My gender is a serious psychiatric diagnosis that
I wouldn't wish on my worst enemy. No, not even you. My? I'm really getting under your skin,
aren't I? No. Well, actually, yes, to be honest, you are. You're getting under my skin because it
really rattles my dysphoria that you're sitting here claiming to represent the transgender
community when in fact you're just making a mockery of my pain. Your pain? You're in a lot of pain,
aren't you, Tiffany Tumbles? Well, I can sense the vibrations of your pain across the room.
And I pity you, Tiffany Tumbles. I pity you because you don't think you're real
until a man in a lab coat signs a prescription pad. And I can't imagine what it must be like
to have so little confidence in your own reality. Okay, well, don't patronize me. I'm just trying to
understand, Tiffany Tumbles, why you think being transgender is all about hating yourself and hating
your body. Why can't trans identity be joyful and celebratory? Now, you don't have to hate yourself
or hate your body, but you do have to have dysphoria. And if you tell people otherwise,
you're just misleading them. I want to heal the rift inside your heart, Tiffany Tumbles. Would
you please join me in saying a prayer for your wellness? Actually, I would strongly prefer if
you would stay away from any of my rifts. Oh, goddess of light, please shield and protect
Tiffany against the ravages of inner strife and close her and your loving arms and cleanse her of
all condemnation and internalized transphobia. I entreat you, oh great mother, bathe Tiffany in
her peace, acceptance and self care and rid her of her toxic cisnormative truce gone ways. Amen.
Are we done here? I don't think I can make it through any more readings from the SJW prayer book.
Tiffany, why are you rejecting the love I am trying to deliver on to you? Because I'm grossed out by
you. That's why. Okay, then. Well, namaste, bitch. Look, why don't we all take a step back
and take a moment just to honor our heroes in uniform and let them know how much we appreciate
their service. God, I love the troops. Thinking about the troops makes me wet. It makes me come.
Semper Fi, boys. What? I think I'm starting to wrap my head around this.
Tiffany, your transsexualism. I have to say I don't love it, but you do seem to at least be
aware that you have some kind of mental disorder. So I'll give you that. Whereas Baltimore,
you're what? Making some kind of statement? If my existence is a statement, I think that says more
about society than it says about me. Jackie, what you have to understand is there have been
transsexuals around for a long time. I have talked to 80 year old transsexuals and they agree with
me that all this genderqueer bullshit, it's just a trend. It's a fact. But is it? For thousands of
years, there have been third gender groups across human cultures. There's the Hijra of India,
the two-spirit people among Native Americans. Whereas binary transsexualism is a medical
construct of the 20th century. Gender dysphoria wasn't even a recognized medical condition until
2013, meaning that Tumblr is twice as old as the first gender dysphoria diagnosis. So perhaps it is
you, Tiffany Tumbles, and not I who is following a trend. Wow, that just blew my mind. Well,
tables are turned, bitch. Tiffany, could you explain to me why you decided to become a
trans trender? He's not Native American, though. They. They. You know, it's kind of hard not to
call you he when you have a fucking beard. If you were actually trans and you actually had dysphoria,
then you wouldn't be comfortable with that. Your honor, in my defense, it is a glitter beard.
Okay. Well, that's very 2019, very gender, very they, but what it isn't is two-spirit. Look,
the SJWs don't even agree with this. They think it's racist. White people have two genders. Pick
one and sit down, dude. Yeah, that's a good point. Two genders, two genders, attack helicopter.
It's ma'am. Okay. Well, now you're just. Two genders, only two genders. My gender's Baltimore.
I think there's 76 genders because I don't think it's for you. You're just saying that you're me
and talking in a whiny voice. That is not an argument. The toxic truce gum bullies are gay
eating my gender. I don't have to, you know, kids, the one thing you'll always have to deal
with in life is assholes. It's hard to be yourself, but it's worth it. Let's be ourselves.
Let's totally be ourselves. All right. That's enough of this. You know, as a biological female,
I honestly don't understand any of this. Okay. That was a hard T. Now does my husband sometimes wear
panties around the house and ask me to call him mommy's little slut? Well, sure. But that is a
matter between her and the Lord. It's best not to think about it too much. Anyway, uh, Tiffany,
my brain has an easier time processing youth and whatever is going on over here. So congratulations.
You're the winner. That was some excellent free speech. Okay. Great. So in conclusion,
trans trenders are real and probably dangerous. Make sure to protect your children. As for how
many genders there are, you know, I'm going to take the centrist route and say two and a half.
All right. That's our show. This has been the freedom report where the debate never stops.
Except when the show is over. The girl can't help it. She's a Libra.
Behold the non-binary lamb who was despised and rejected. They gave their cheek to them
that mocked their beard and did not their face from shame. But lo, Tiffany, the person who tricks
the trendier than thou is shady queen. Give next of all her friend Justine and sought her counsel
thus. God, damn it, Justine. I just can't with these trenders anymore. I simply cannot. You
know, you can just text me here and I'll come open the door. Okay. Seems a little formal.
Ugh. You look great, hun. Cute. Justine, you look like absolute shit. What happened? Did the cat
girl finally beat you up? No, I just, look, I slept in my makeup. Okay. Leave me alone. I've
been having a difficult time. Are we serving a little depression moment? Jesus. Well, don't leave
me out. I saw you on the freedom report today. Okay, girl, can we talk about Ladybeard Baltimore,
Maryland? Oh, add that one to the crazy hall of fame. Really? You're happy with the way that went?
You feel good about that? You feel good about yourself right now? Well, why wouldn't I?
Tiffany, there is nothing more sad and pathetic and desperate and low in this world than a tran
who thinks she's better than other trans. It's like a drunk feeling superior to a junkie.
You seem to think that you're queen of the world because you're hanging on to societal
acceptance by two fingers instead of one. Well, you're not, bitch. You're just an insecure,
frightened little queer who's determined to use the one ounce of power you have to tread
other people down. And if I'm being honest, I don't find that very admirable.
Your eyelash is coming unglued.
My life is coming unglued. Look, it's not like I'm coming out to trannies who just can't afford
to transition. I don't have the social support. It's not like Baltimore is doing everything he
can to pass and people just treat him like a freak for no reason. They. It's they. Are we really
saying they now in private? Yes, we are. So get used to it. My name is Justine. I think
misgendering is toxic because I care about people's feelings. I always forget that you're like
actually an SGW. I always forget that you're actually an asshole. Why do I even hang out with
you? Oh, because you hate yourself and you have to believe there's hope for me because if there's
hope for me, there might be hope for you. Wow, you're developing self-consciousness. Where'd
you learn that trick? Gigi, Tiffany. Have you ever been bullied? Oh, let's see. Let me think.
Oh, only K through 12, nine hours a day. But you don't see me going on talk shows to play the
victim. No, I see you going on talk shows to play the bully. I think you grew up getting bullied for
being a sissy till you started passing as a woman. And then you got a little taste of normal. And now
you want to be the one who bashes the queers. Bash them? If anything, I'm the one defending
trans people from appropriation and misrepresentation by these trenders. You said on air
that Baltimore grosses you out. Do you really expect me to believe that your motivations here
have nothing to do with your own self-loathing? How could it be self-loathing when Baltimore is
nothing like me? Okay, then it's just bigotry. That's even worse. Oh, it's not bigotry. Look,
I shouldn't have said grossed out. I'll give you that. But he does. They do make me uncomfortable.
And why do you think that is? I got secondhand dysphoria looking at someone so burgeoning.
Makes me want to down a bottle of hormones. Make sure I never look like that. Bitch,
secondhand dysphoria. What is that? You know, when you look at a tranny and you just clock
everything and you feel like sympathetic vibrations of dysphoria? Yeah, I do know what you're talking
about. And I'll tell you why it happens. When you're early in your transition and you're doing
everything you can to pass, you develop a really sophisticated eye for every little
thing that makes you clockable. Then you turn that sophisticated eye onto other trans people
and you project your dysphoria onto them. I buy that. Yeah. Well, that is absolutely not a valid
reason to please other trans people's presentation. Secondhand dysphoria is not valid. The fact that
you project your dysphoria onto other people is your problem and your problem alone. And you need
to deal with that issue in private, girl, not on a fucking talk show. Yeah, you're probably right
about that, but it still doesn't make Baltimore, Maryland any more valid. Tiffany, let's be
pragmatic about this. Suppose everything you're saying is true. Suppose the only real trans people
are dysphoric, binary transgender people, transsexuals. Every time you say the word
transsexual, I feel like it's 1978. Are you 80 years old? I guess you could say I'm not the
trendiest person. Haha. Look, suppose you're right and everyone who doesn't meet your definition
of a transsexual is some kind of confused trend follower. Even if that were true, and to be clear,
it isn't, what you're doing harms even the trans people you think are valid because virtually
every trans person goes through a period of being confused about their gender and of having
nonconforming expression. And you're going around enforcing a stigma against that. Didn't you ever
have doubts about your gender? Weren't you ever androgynous? Oh yeah, I mean, I was never a sad
burgeoning, but I had my little cringe here being a non-binary SJW. Uh-huh. And one of the great
things about non-binary identities is they give trans people the conceptual space to exist,
even when neither gender really fits them, whether that's for their entire life or just for a couple
months. Hasn't it occurred to you that being shamed and berated for being a trenderer during
your exploration year might not have been the most helpful thing? Not really. I have dysphoria,
so if anyone called me a trenderer, I'd eventually prove them wrong. That's all I'm saying. If you're
not a trenderer, then transition. Prove me wrong. The stigma you perpetuate against gender confusion
and experimentation keeps trans people in the closet and delays transition. It alienates baby
trans from the community that should be welcoming them instead of publicly humiliating them. And when
you appoint yourself the public decider of whomst is really trans, the torquemata of the trender
inquisition, you're terrorizing a lot of people who are genuinely trying to figure themselves out.
Okay. But then how do we decide which t***ies are valid? We don't. This is where I'm losing you,
because trendstrenders are absolutely a thing. Like, undeniably. I've talked to people who've
literally told me they used to be trendstrenders. So, some people question their gender but end up
deciding they're not really trans. There is nothing wrong with that. And those people still
aren't being helped by public shaming. Well, maybe they wouldn't be confused in the first place if
SJW's weren't going around telling people they don't need dysphoria to be trans. You know, it's
one thing if teenage girls want to dye their hair pink and call themselves demi-boys for most of
sophomore year. But some of these kids are actually going to medically transition. And soon, we're going
to have an epidemic of detransitioners on our hands. And there's going to be TERFs publishing,
I told you so, op-eds in every major newspaper. Now, maybe you think that's worth it just to make
sure no one ever feels invalidated for any reason. But I think that's highly irresponsible. Look,
if you're so worried about people feeling pressured to medically transition, then what you
should be doing is working to make the trans community as inclusive and welcoming as possible
to gender non-conforming people and non-binary people and people who are questioning and trans
people who don't medically transition. But instead, you're doing the exact opposite. You're telling
everyone that medical transition is the only way to be valid. And if anything is pressuring people
to medically transition, it's that. Justine, I think you're a good person. Maybe too good. And
that's why you're trying to have compassion for everyone. But at some point, you have to protect
yourself. We live in a world of Jackie Jackson's who don't understand trans people and don't think
we're real. So we need to have an explanation of what it is to be trans that's based on facts and
not feelings. And the most factual explanation is transmedicalism, which is the idea that
transsexualism is a diagnosable mental disorder called gender dysphoria. There's science to back
this up. It's accepted by medical professionals, and it clearly explains why we are valid,
unlike Rachel Dolezal and snowflake gender teenagers and people who identify as cats.
Okay, I see the appeal, but I don't think transmedicalism is as validating as you think it is.
Why not? I'll put it bluntly. Why does having gender dysphoria make you a woman? Because gender
dysphoria means I have a female brain. No, it doesn't. I'm sorry to tell you, but the science
does not say what you think it says. There may be neurological causes of gender dysphoria. But at the
end of the day, all dysphoria is is discomfort in a male body or a male social role or however you
want to put it. And wanting to be a woman is not the same thing as being a woman, not by any means.
Girl, where are you going with this? What is this? Are you becoming a turf? No, I just don't think
your theory actually validates our womanhood. Well, if you're right, that's a real problem,
because we need to have reason and science and logic and facts on our side so that we can
explain to society that we are valid and that we are real. Otherwise, bad things. Well, maybe
there's a better theory. Well, okay, Socrates, let's hear it then. The way I see it, gender is
either psychological or biological or social. Now, my friend Tabby, the cat girl, she thinks it's all
psychological, that it's just identity, that whatever you think about your own gender is true.
And that makes me really uncomfortable because then what's the difference between identifying
as a woman and identifying as a Norwegian forest cat? It's a difference that Tabby herself seems
not to have much of a grip on. Girl, that's literally what I've been trying to tell you about
transtrenders this entire time. Just let me finish. If gender is strictly biological,
then that's game over for trans people unless you make some kind of wrong brain and the wrong body
argument. But I told you I'm not buying that. So that leaves gender as a social construct.
Are you gonna try to make me read Judith Butler again? I'll summarize it. Gender is a series of
gestures. It's called performativity. It's the way you dress. It's the way you speak. It's the
way you act. It's the way you relate to other people. Through transitioning, we habituate to
the gestures of womanhood and socially that makes us women regardless of biology or psychology,
checkmate transphobes. Okay, the problem with that is that it's both too exclusionary
and too inclusive. It excludes a lot of trans people who can't transition for circumstantial
reasons, but whose dysphoria is very real. And it includes every transtrender, drag queen,
fetishist, and two-bit cross-dressing comedian in a dino wig. Uh, well, do you really believe
that a man who plays a woman on stage becomes just as much of a woman as you and me? Yes? Bitch,
no you don't. Yeah, you're right. I'm full of shit. I know you are because you're an SJW,
and SJWs hate performativity theory almost as much as they hate me. Well, they only hate it
because they don't understand it. They think it invalidates non-binary identities, but in fact,
it's the most rational way to explain non-binary identities. How can you perform a non-binary
identity? Simple. You learn the rules so you can break them. Wearing a beard and a dress communicates
ambiguity. Even the gesture of declaring, I am neither a man or a woman, is a speech act that
removes the speaker from the semantics of- Girl, shut up. This is too much philosophizing. I can't
stand it anymore. Why don't you tell me what's really going on with you? Why do you look like
you've been in a k-hole for a week? Why are you suddenly so obsessed with white knighting for
non-binary people? Because I am non-binary. No, you're not. What are you talking about?
I just feel like since I started transitioning, I've been trying so hard to fit in and to perform
my gender and to pass and to just be normal. But I can't do it anymore. I just cannot make it work.
I feel like an actor. I feel like a zombie. Like I'm going through the motions of this new gender
role that's supposed to liberate me, but that's somehow just as empty as the old one. Because
I'm just not normal Tiffany. I am a freak and I'm always going to be a freak. Justine,
you're not non-binary. You're gay and everyone can see this except you. Oh, come on. I'm not,
I'm not gay. Justine was extremely gay. Protests though the lady may, there simply is no stopping
a gayness. I love girls. I hate girls. Okay. So I'm a little bit gay, right? And you don't know
how to reconcile your attraction to women with your desire to reform your gender. That's why
you feel this dissonance. Yeah. I guess that's basically it. Well, it really shouldn't be that
hard girl. You already came out as a woman. Just blurt it out. Say hello world. My name is Justine
and I fuck pussy. That's a very cis normative way to say it. Hello world. My name is Justine and
I fuck pussy. Oh, I feel like a man when I say it. Yeah. Well, you should probably buy a pickup
truck then get some of those mud flaps on the back with the little sexy ladies on them. And
you may as well change your name back to Justin. Okay. Well, that's just uncalled for. Girl,
I don't know what to say except I told you so. Sexuality is just like gender identity. It is
not a performance. It's not a trend. It's not a choice. It's just part of who you are. And
there's nothing you can do to change it. I guess you're right. I guess my theory sucks. It sucks
so fucking hard. But the good news is you can unclench your asshole now and do whatever you
want because you're still a woman, whether you're performing a stereotype or not. So run free,
Justine. Go top a cis woman. Bang a gay guy. Wear some oversized flannel. Do whatever you want.
Wow. Yeah. I guess, I guess that is pretty liberating. Yeah. Thank God for transmedicalism,
right? Oh, except not because you just destroyed transmedicalism with facts and logic. So we have
no theory. We have no theory, Justine. What do we do now? How do we prove we're valid? Well,
just do what every trans woman has done since the beginning of time. Go out and
fuck the most brutally heterosexual man you can find and be validated and come. Oh, honey,
I have and I will, but that's not going to convince anyone but me. It's not a proof.
It's not a theory. Well, maybe we don't need a theory. Maybe we don't need to prove anything.
Bad things, Justine. Bad things. Well, do we have a theory about why people are gay?
No, they just are. The only reason we even feel like we need a theory about trans people
is that society is so unaccepting of us that it's constantly demanding we justify our own reality.
Okay. So what am I supposed to tell Jackie Jackson then? What am I supposed to tell the
TERFs? That I'm a woman because reasons? No, not even because reasons. Just because you are.
So it's what? A leap of faith? Oh, great. I'm sure that's going to convince all the rational
skeptics. Justine, it makes us sound completely delusional. Well, Tiffany, delusion is what
separates us from the animals. Who do you think built the pyramids and the cathedrals? Clearly
not people with a perfectly rational worldview. But what do you care anyway? Aren't you the one
who thinks being trans is a mental disorder? Well, I wouldn't describe it as the height of sanity,
but I would prefer to think that my whole life and identity is based on something I can rationally
explain. Well, what are we, Tiffany? Men? Isn't the single most obnoxious thing about men that
they think they have to wrap up the entire world in a little rational box? Maybe the most important
things in life can't be logically proved. Can you logically prove that you love your own children?
No. And the attempt to prove it is as degrading as it is futile. Maybe gender identity is one of
those things. Okay. But then how do I prove I'm more valid than Baltimore, Maryland and the star
genders and the cat people? Well, maybe we should stop getting so caught up in proving our validity
to ourselves that we end up being horribly cruel to other people. What if we just accept all the
freaks of the world? At the end of the day, maybe it's just not as important to have logical proofs
as it is to be empathetic and open-minded and compassionate.
Kumbaya, my lord, Kumbaya, Kumbaya, my lord, Kumbaya, Kumbaya, my lord, Kumbaya, Kumbaya.
I have something to tell you. Here it comes. I love you.
Okay. Well, I'm going to get going now. I have an important date tonight, drinking vodka cranberries
and reading YouTube comments by myself. So I'd really better go do that. But good luck with
your new life as a male lesbian who fucks cats. Are you upset? Just go. I'm sorry.
Oh, I hate this bitch, but God, she's a yum yum.
Harken children, in this vision, you have witnessed world fools on the screen.
Fools who did all of themselves. But I, your goddess mother, queen, messiah, I am nothing like them.
For I am truth. I am light. I am in capitalism. And everything I tweet is woke. Most importantly,
I love myself. I love myself so much. It makes me wet. It makes me cum. Praise be unto me. Hallelujah.
Like, comment, and subscribe. Amen.
