Hello, boys!
I get a lot of people on YouTube calling me degenerate, but I'm still not sure what
that means.
I try to be open to criticism, so I've decided that what I need is a glorious night of wisdom
to set me straight, and I think I've found just the man.
Some call him the valiant champion of Mother Europe, the ever-chosen of the gods, the radiant
paladin of the Fourth Reich, but to this priestess of Blasphemes, he'll always be the Golden
One.
A young prince, chosen to take the mantle of the ages.
Oh my god, look at his butt.
Oh my god.
Daddy, can I have some meat?
Looks like meat's back on the menu, boys.
Oh, daddy.
You know, Lars, things have really changed since the last time we talked.
I'm a fair maiden now, to a certain extent, and I've been chased since I started my transition.
So, in a sense, I'm a virgin.
And I don't know about the rest of these decadent sluts, but I, for one, care about
a little thing called purity.
So now that my decade of gender-dysphoric, alcohol-drenched debasement seems to be coming
to a close, I think I'm really ready to begin the training, master.
But first, let us fend off degeneracy by purifying ourselves in a bath of Swedish lake water
and pure absinthe.
It's time.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
What?
Is this the bad kind of cultural appropriation?
It is, isn't it?
Well…
They're shiny and I want them.
It's not my fault black people have good ideas.
What am I supposed to do.
Not steal them?
I'll pop it out.
Alright thou resplendent champion of the north.
Hit me with your finest wisdom.
I'm going to take some shoulders and admire myself in the mirror.
There's always a nice thing to do.
Well, at least we agree on something.
Aha!
Autogynophilic narcissist exposed.
Abigail, isn't not invading women's bathrooms
like your whole thing?
Misogynistic mental illness confirmed.
Abigail, what is your damage?
Are you okay?
How's your mom doing?
Is everything all right?
You want to get in the tub?
Yeah.
So you're a lost baby girl, and you're a game sweet prince.
He has an Instagram, and it is delectable.
Meets back on the menu, boys.
He carries the Charles Atlas seal of approval.
What ho, you jaunty lads.
My captain.
My king.
Yes!
If the golden one didn't exist, I would have to invent him.
I need him.
And maybe you need me too, Lars.
I'm the moon to your sun, the, uh, the broom hilda to your Siegfried.
As you become more of a burly mask, I become more of a silky femme.
But you know, I'm noticing that even though you're straight, you don't seem super interested
in the bodies of the women in your life.
And this is just a casual suggestion, but maybe what you want is a fair maiden like
me.
I'm not like the other girls.
I've got the T's and the D's.
On second thought, leave Kranz women alone.
I don't want that blood on my hands.
Well, this is no longer a relaxing bath.
And that's why we never bathe with fascists.
I blocked my T, I popped my E, let's talk about degeneracy.
What are people talking about when they call something or someone degenerate?
Well, let's take a look at some examples from my YouTube comments section and see if
we can figure it out from context.
Transgender communist degenerate.
Kill yourself you fucking degenerate tranny freak.
Degen tranny, lal.
Trannies grow out of their degeneracy by the time they're senior citizens.
Or at least that's what I would assume since you never see old dudes in dresses.
Well, what's up with that?
This is degeneracy.
You ought to be slung from a tree.
He likes to rhyme.
You little homos are future cannon fodder, a bunch of physically weak degenerate dogs.
The end.
Aww, these people are trying so hard to upset me.
They've only got one card in the deck though, alas.
Anyway, what I'm gathering from that sumptuous sampling of the choicest fuckboys is that,
like a burly Nord with his fair maiden, the accusation of degeneracy is usually paired
with a loathing of queerness.
Now it's not always just about queerness.
In fact, fascists and social conservatives use the word degeneracy as a catch-all term
to refer to queers, non-whites, communists, communists, people with disabilities, basically
anyone who gets killed when the fascists win.
But where does the word degeneracy come from?
Let's watch an instructional video to learn more.
The word degenerate comes from the Latin prefix d, which means away from, and the Latin word
genus, which means race or kind.
So to be degenerate is to no longer be of your race or kind, and if you think this already
sounds pretty fashy, you've been paying attention.
The current use of the term degenerate crystallized in the 18th and 19th centuries, when Lamarckian
protoevolutionary biology, bourgeois disgust toward the urban working class, and a growing
colonialist awareness of supposedly inferior ethnic groups gave rise to degeneration theory,
the idea that civilization is in decline due to biological devolution.
Hold on, are these the exact same dingbats responsible for scientific racism?
The exact same dingbats, yes.
And one of the chief dingbats was the French aristocrat Artur de Gabenau, one of the intellectual
grandfathers of Nazism.
Gabenau wrote a book called Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races, in which he developed
the idea of the Aryan master race, warned that miscegenation would lead to social chaos,
and gave the word degenerate its modern fashy definition.
M'lord?
The word degenerate, when applied to a people, means that the people no longer has the same
intrinsic value as it had before, because it has no longer the same blood in its veins,
continual adulterations have gradually affected the quality of the blood.
In fact, the man of a decadent time, the degenerate man, a properly so-called, is a different
being from the racial point of view, from the heroes of the great ages.
I think I am right in concluding that the human race, in all its branches, has a secret
repulsion from the crossing of blood.
Notice that the degenerate man is the product of a decadent time, and decadence is a concept
closely related to degeneracy.
Decadence literally means decay, which, like degeneracy, implies a fall from a previous
date of grace.
By the late 19th century, concerns about decadence were everywhere in the European cultural
imagination.
During this period, German nationalist composer Richard Wagner wrote his essay condemning
Jewishness in music, which he first published under the pseudonym Freigedank, which literally
means free thought.
That's right, he pulled the goddamn free speech card.
Then the Jewish doctor Max Nordau published a pseudo-medical book called Degeneration,
accusing Wagner and other contemporary artists of degeneracy.
And around the same time, a bunch of queer, absinthe-swilling artists reclaimed the word
decadence as the title of their movement.
Everyone was accusing everyone of degeneracy and decadence, it was 4chan writ large.
So the idea that Western civilization has become decadent is not exactly new then?
Not at all.
The idea that European civilization is in some way suicidal or self-destructive goes
back to the 18th century, when scholarship about the fall of the Roman Empire led to
speculation about what causes civilizations to decline.
And one of the hypotheses was that effeminate hedonistic emperors and general decadence
left the Romans vulnerable to butch visigoths and vandals.
Is there any truth to that?
No, it's vulgar pseudo-history encouraged by social conservatives.
The decadent emperors Nero, Caligula, and Elagabalus reigned from the first to the third centuries.
The empire didn't collapse until the end of the fifth century, which leaves at least
two hundred years between the decadence and the collapse, at which time the empire was
thoroughly Christian.
And in any case, the eastern half of the empire still survived for another thousand years.
Well, hail Caligula.
But you know, a lot of people still believe this story about ancient civilizations collapsing
because of the queers.
Here's feminist Camille Paglia on how the transgenders destroy civilizations.
The movement toward androgyny occurs in late phases of culture, as a civilization is starting
to unravel.
Hang on a second, I'm gonna need to shift up a gear for this.
Okay, and you can find it again and again and again through history in the Greek art.
You can see it happening.
All of a sudden, there's a kind of, you know, the sculptures of handsome, nude young men
athletes that used to be very robust in the arcade period suddenly began to seem like
wet noodles toward the end.
People who live in such times, they feel that they're very sophisticated, they're very cosmopolitan.
And homosexuality, heterosexuality, somewhat anything goes, and so on.
But from the perspective of historical distance, you can see that it's a culture that no longer
believes in itself.
And then what you invariably get are people who are convinced of the power of heroic masculinity
on the edges, whether they're the vandals or the huns, or whether they're the barbarians
of ISIS.
You see them, you know, starting to mass on the outside of the culture.
And that's what we have right now.
There is a tremendous and rather terrifying disconnect between the infatuation with the
transgender movement in our own culture and what's going on out there, okay?
And so, I mean, that's why I'm concerned.
I feel it's ominous.
I question whether the transgender choice is indeed genuine in every single case.
Riley J. Dennis.
Why did you destroy ancient Rome?
So the idea is that our infatuation with a feminine decadence means we're going to be
destroyed by real men.
You know, like ISIS.
This doesn't deserve a response.
We're moving on.
Where does fucking Nietzsche fit into all of this?
Oh god.
Do we really have to do this?
So there's this dead German asshole named Friedrich...
Who's every edgy 19-year-old's favorite philosopher.
Hey baby, the ladies tell me I'm Apollonian in the streets.
Dionysian in the street, in the...
Shhhh.
Go to sleep.
Basically what he said is that the moral system of Western culture, especially Christianity,
is decadent in the sense that, unlike pre-Socratic Greek society,
we have all these hang-ups about guilt and sin in the afterlife.
And Nietzsche says these ideas originate with people who are weak and sick
and that they repress our basic biological instincts to value strength and beauty and worldly happiness.
In practice, this turns out to be a Rorschach test that everyone reads their own ideas into.
There's a fascist interpretation that says we need to cast off the slave morality idea
of universal human equality to make way for the triumph of beefy Aryan studs.
And then there's the more progressive interpretation that says we need to stop worrying about, like, fucking Christian morality, man,
and reinstate the cult of Dionysus, which, okay, I'd be down to go to that party,
especially if we don't have to talk about Nietzsche.
What all this is leading up to is simply the point that by the time 20th century fascism was really kicking into gear,
European society was already primed with a couple centuries of degeneracy discourse.
Racist pseudoscience was combined with degeneration theory and Wagnerian mysticism to produce the core ideas of national socialism.
Namely, one, the German people and nation are like a biological organism that is prone to infection and decay.
Two, Jews, Poles, Roma, homosexuals, communists, and the disabled are degenerate elements that contribute to decay.
And three, the degenerate elements must be purged in order to secure the health and existence of the organism.
So there you have it, the history of degeneration theory from foppington to fascism.
Well, thanks for the history lesson, Doc.
One particular thing I've noticed about modern fascists is they're especially obsessed with breeding bountiful crops of white babies.
Nazis call the Jews vermin, but it's the white people they think should breed like rats.
And they specifically loathe anything that stands in the way of fit white reproduction,
including, as they see it, being gay, being trans, being queer, being fat, being a beta male, being a slut, being a feminist, not getting married,
not having kids, having kids that aren't white, masturbating, looking at porn, drinking alcohol, doing drugs, using birth control, having abortions.
Cock rings, these are my favorite degenerate things.
Very cute, but don't you think they might have a point about the drugs and alcohol?
Oh god damn, fine, we'll talk about the alcohol thing.
There's like ContraPoints fans now who watch my videos and look up to me, so I have to be responsible and I hate it.
So look, if you're gonna drink, I'm certainly not gonna stop you, but don't even think about driving, okay?
Drink lots of water and pace yourself.
There's plenty of time to be blackout when you're dead, and you're gonna be if you don't take it slow.
Alcohol is dangerous, it's unhealthy, it's only fun in moderation, and it can put you in really vulnerable situations with really horrible people.
So I would never recommend that anyone get involved with alcohol for any reason.
I mean, unless you like having fun and feeling good, where were we?
Absinthe and coffee and bitchy sarcasm, estrogen crying and fruitless orgasms, antifa furries and denby drag kings, these are my favorite degenerate things.
Hi there, I hope you're having a soothing degenerate bath.
What I want you to do is just lie back and try to relax, and I am just going to slowly start to drip in hot candle wax.
So for fascists and identitarians, anything that doesn't contribute to the greater cause of white procreation is degenerate.
And individual fascists differ on what those things are.
Most of them agree that homosexuality is degenerate because apparently gay people can't raise children.
Fascists venerate nuclear families of one dominant white man and one subservient white woman because they view the situation as the perfect factory for churning out clean-cut heterosexual white kids.
And if you soften the emphasis on whiteness, you get basic social conservatism.
So this really isn't just about fascism, though I do like to talk about the fascists because they have the biggest muscles.
Speaking of which, a lot of rightists have realized that in the 21st century the social conservative position is not very cool.
So what they do is they say they of course have no problem with individual homosexuals, what they have a problem with is the gay agenda.
What they have a problem with essentially is queerness.
Now, what is queerness?
Well, people have all kinds of scholastic debates about this, but in its most generic sense queer means that you have some kind of weird sex thing.
So either your gender is all fucked up or you have creative tastes and sexual partners.
But unlike the words homosexual or transgender, queer is tinged with a connotation of rebellion.
Often rebellion against the heteronormative commandments of marriage, monogamy, procreation, and productivity.
So social conservatives and even a few fascists claim that they're willing to tolerate gay and transgender people,
but only if you shut up about it conform to straight society and try to act as normal as possible.
What they can't stand is loud non-conformist queerness because think of the children.
We're talking pride parades, activists, leather daddies, gender fucks, kinksters, polyamorists, sing it with me.
These are my favorite degenerate things.
To fascists, the pursuit of individual happiness must be subservient to the health and success of the race.
So in a sense, traditionalism is a much more collectivistic philosophy than even communism,
which only demands the communal ownership of the means of production.
At least in theory, communism doesn't tell you what gender to be or who and how to fuck.
In practice, though, there's not a single position on the political spectrum that's immune to complaining about degeneracy.
While I was researching this video, I randomly came across an article from an American communist newspaper from 1976
that claims,
which appeals especially to the petty bourgeoisie because of its appearance as sexual freedom.
Homosexuality arose from class oppression and the oppression of women.
Jeez, fellow degenerates, we're kinda short on allies out here, huh?
We've got the fascists calling us sexual Bolshevists and meanwhile the communists are calling us bourgeois decadents.
Why does everyone hate decadents so much? Is pleasure really so wrong?
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
Listen, I don't want my position to be misunderstood.
I know that most people will probably always be straight, cis, monogamous, and procreative.
And you know, that's probably for the best.
Someone needs to have the babies and keep society running.
All we gentle decadents ask is to be allowed to enjoy our special delights and peace.
My goal is not to purge masculinity from society or anything of the kind.
In the perfect society created by me, there will be plenty of beefy studs around, so don't you worry about that.
And that's the difference between me and the fascists.
I want a society where people like me are simply allowed to exist.
And, this is the important part, where people not like me are simply allowed to exist.
Fascists want a society where only people like them are allowed to exist.
The queer quest is to survive. The fascist quest is to be the only survivor.
So if society can tolerate for thousands of years the existence of priests,
which is to say, bejeweled men in dresses who have no children and are a giant tax-exempt drain on the economy,
well, you can certainly tolerate queer people who crack Nazi codes and write you musicals and sing you songs.
So if you think the meaning of life is to create as many white babies as possible, you know what? Fine.
Go make white babies.
But I really must insist, upon my right and the right of all degenerates,
to coexist alongside you in our own decadent communities of race mixing, sexual anarchy, and rock and roll.
Rock and roll.
Rock and roll.
Rock on, gold dust woman.
Take your silver spoon.
Take your grave.
I wake up in the morning.
See your sunrise, love is to go down.
Lousy lovers pick their prey, but they never cry out loud.
They cry out.
Well, did she make you cry?
Make you break it down and shatter your illusions of love?
Well, tell me, is it over now?
Do you know how to pick up the pieces and go home?
Rock on, ancient queen.
Follow those who'd fail in your shadow.
That was a jacket.
Rulers make bad lovers.
You better put your king in dumb mouth for sale.
One more time.
Oh, did she make you cry?
Make you break down and shatter your illusions of love?
Well, tell me, is it over now?
Do you know how to pick up the pieces and go home?
Rock and roll.
