Hi boys, it's me again.
Just your average girl.
Look, I may be a biological female, but I do hope that just for this video we're able
to converse as men.
I want you to think back to 2016, which I know in internet years is like halfway between
now and the decline of Rome.
Do you like history, boys?
How did Rome fall again?
Was it the gays?
Tell me all about it.
Back in 2016, the big internet culture war was between feminists on one side and men's
rights activists on the other.
Whatever happened to that, these days it's as dead a meme as, I don't know, Harambe.
I did want to do the fedora though.
Every YouTuber who's ever covered the men's rights movement has done the fedora and I
wanted to put my own little twist on it.
My wardrobe notes for this video say MRA Femme Fatale and fedora would make it fashion.
School shooter realness.
I feel like I'm also serving a little, oh, red-peeled Carmen Sandiego.
In this video, I want to ask, in all seriousness, what are we going to do about men?
Because no offense, but as a group, you guys kind of seem like you're not doing okay.
Could a group of people who are purchasing uncooked alpha yogurt possibly be subsisting
in a state of psychological balance?
Fellas, are regular bowel movements gay?
I guess, yeah, kind of.
You don't see a whole lot of psyllium husk in heterosexual medicine cabinets.
I'm losing my target audience here.
Listen, my dudes, let's just say I'm kind of worried about you guys.
And I'm not saying I'm any better.
To be clear, I'm not okay either.
There's like 15 jars of urine in my refrigerator right now.
Yeah, that's right.
Women pee too, okay?
Get over it.
I'm so sorry if this offends your male notions of feminine delicacy, but I, for one, will
not be shamed by your patriarchal bullshit.
You boys, you're very rational, aren't you?
Ugh, I suppose I was too.
I admit that these days, rationality, it's something I struggle with, both as a biological
female and as a Pisces moon.
But when I decided I wanted to make a video for men, contrapine, for men, I started brushing
up on my reasoning skills because I want to be so fucking rational for you.
So to prepare for this video, I read Newton's Principia Mathematica, Wittgenstein's Tractatus
Logico-Philosophicus, and of course, the philosophical classic, The Rational Male by
Ruyo Caliente.
So my mind is well lubricated and I am ready for what I have no doubt will be a penetrating
intellectual interchange.
Look, I want to play by your rules, okay?
So there will be no emotions in this video.
I will present my arguments in strict, logical form, relying only on facts, reason, evidence,
and deductive proof.
Actually, you know what?
Fuck that.
Let's listen to house music and do sax drugs.
I'm pandering to the male gaze.
Oh, and the male straits.
God, I love attention.
Hey, gorge.
Hey, gorge.
Hey, gorge.
Okay, I'm ready.
Let's crack open a cold one, boys.
My hands are too pretty to open the can.
I need a man to do it for me.
Help.
Fuck it.
Okay, that's super funny.
Hey, gorge.
Hey, gorge.
Are there any women still watching this video?
I'm really sorry about all this unless you're into that sort of thing, in which case, how
very dare.
I'm a good Presbyterian.
And by Presbyterian, I do mean pansexual.
Hey, how are you?
Look, the video is about men, so I'm trying to be attractive to men.
Am I doing this right?
Is this what men like?
Traps.
Traps.
It is a risky look for a girl like me.
When you do a lingerie look, you know you're going to wind up somewhere on the Frankenfurter
Violet Chachke-Diedevonti's spectrum.
Oh, but you don't know where exactly, and that is a dangerous game, ladies.
I have to say, though, I actually am feeling pretty fucking empowered right now, but that
could be because of the drugs.
Look, gentlemen, let's be rational, and we're fooling around, okay?
Part one.
Oh, wait, rational.
Axiom one, America's next top victim.
I think there is some truth to the idea that we live in a victimhood culture, and I'm
not just talking about campus SJWs with their microaggressions.
No bitch, this goes all the way to the top.
We have white people complaining about reverse racism.
We have the literal 1% complaining about anti-rage prejudice.
That must be super fucking hard for you.
We have the heterosexual agenda organizing straight pride parades.
You know, flaunting their sexuality on the faces of children who are trying to raise
a family and protesting in the street like a bunch of f***.
And so, of course, because there was women's rights, there has to be men's rights, too.
I've been hearing about men's rights for my whole adult life, and I've always been
very skeptical.
Because in my experience, online men's rights activism in practice always looks like this.
Men try to do a good thing to solve a real problem, and then a man shows up to say, well,
what about men?
Men also get harassed, why aren't you talking about men?
And is this man actually involved in activism to stop harassment against men?
Of course he's fucking not.
He doesn't give a shit, he's a troll.
His contribution to the conversation begins and ends with what about men?
What about them, honey?
For this video, I decided to actually do some research for once, and the first thing I did
was read the foundational text of the modern men's rights movement, which is The Myth
of Male Power by Warren Farrell.
Actually, I listened to the audiobook because, let's be honest, reading is hard.
But as I was listening, I admit I thought it made more sense than I was expecting it
to.
Basically, Farrell says that second-wave feminists rightly fought against the traditional gender
role that confined women to domestic servitude.
But, he argues that the feminist idea that men have all the power in society is actually
an illusion because the traditional gender role for men is just as oppressive.
He introduces the idea of male disposability, basically the idea that society values female
lives more than male lives, which are seen as expendable in the service of protecting
and providing for women and children.
And he points to statistics showing that men make up the majority of military casualties,
workplace fatalities, murder victims, suicides, and so on.
So we're supposed to conclude that even though at first it looks like men have more power
than women.
In fact, the Queens have a certain kind of privilege in being protected and provided
for by the expendable male worker bees and I guess that kind of makes sense.
I feel like I can at least empathize with the point of view.
What I'm saying is, I took the red pill and I rubbed it on my claaa-
But some initial objections come to mind.
Like haven't men been almost all of the king's presidents and CEOs for millennia?
Didn't men make up all these rules in the first place?
I don't know boys, still seems kind of patriarchal to me.
But maybe you'll say that it's only at the top of society
that men have more power than women.
Maybe the average man is also oppressed
by the system that feminists call patriarchy.
If that's what you're saying,
I think I basically agree with that.
See, what you have to understand about me
is I am such a fucking Libra.
Whenever there's a conflict, my gut reaction is to be like,
well, maybe everybody's right
and maybe there's good points on both sides
and we should all just listen to each other
and rub each other's clothes.
But no, my Scorpio rising persona will not allow that.
Oh, there will be a champion, there will be blood.
So, judges, how do we decide which gender
is America's next top victim?
I mean, it's not like you can just change genders
and see how the other half lives, or can you?
Proposition two, diary of an X-Man.
Dear diary, with every false smile I conceal
that on the inside I'm drowning in darkness.
Mom, get out of my room.
You're ruining my life.
Look, I have never ever talked about this
on my channel before, so this is like
a super fucking vulnerable moment for me.
But I was born a boy.
Well, was I ever really a boy?
It's hard to say.
Dear diary, growing up I always knew
that I was different from other kids,
especially other boys, and it took me so long
to pinpoint what it was, but there was this moment.
I must have been what, seven, eight years old?
And I was playing in my parents' room all by myself
and I saw this pair of my mom's shoes lying on the floor.
And I don't know what it was, it was like this magnetism
that drew me to them and I put my little feet in them
and walked in front of the mirror
and I didn't really have the words yet
to describe how I felt, but basically in that moment
I sensed that God had made a mistake
and I was destined to be a cross-dresser.
That is super fucking coconuts.
Anyway, then in my 20s my life completely fell apart
and I became a woman.
Hey, how are you?
I became one of the dolls.
My plastic surgeon is an artist.
Look boys, the point I'm trying to make here is
I used to live your lifestyle.
I know what people like you get up to
and I think it's disgusting.
I gotta say though, since I transitioned
my life has been super fucking great, like way better.
Now of course a lot of that is not because women have it
better than men, but because hey, gorge,
I am literally transgendered.
So before I transitioned I was dying inside, you know?
I was in the wrong body and now it's like I finally
have the body I was meant to die inside of,
but it's not just that.
I do think that in some ways, since I started presenting
as a woman, people actually do treat me better.
I mean, they take my opinions less seriously, sure,
but that's probably for the best.
Now before using my personal experience
as any kind of evidence, I guess I should say
a couple caveats.
Caveat one is that most pre-transitioned trans women
are not like other boys.
And most of us, we're not living the business class
male experience by any means.
You know, it's a lot of drunk melancholics,
tormented sissies, secretive transvestites,
poets, you know, that sort of thing.
Caveat two is that my trans experience
is not the trans experience.
And I do have a lot of other privileges
that made things go super fucking well for me.
Hey, how are you?
Don't you just love it when someone checks their privilege
in a way that's actually just bragging?
You know, it's super important for me to acknowledge
that I've been so successful and I've come so far,
in part because I'm white and I'm skinny and I'm young
and I'm blonde and I'm rich and I pass and I'm educated
and I'm popular and my plastic surgeon is an artist
and my boyfriend is really rich and hot
and I come from a pure Aryan bloodline.
And part of what makes me so enlightened
and so compassionate is that I'm able to recognize
these privileges that I have that just might not be available
to people who are less fortunate.
From the bottom of my mother fucking
and my father fucking heart,
they must be super fucking hard for you.
I can't even imagine.
What I was saying is there are ways
that people treat me better now
that I'm presenting as a woman.
You know, people smile at me more.
I feel more taken care of.
Men do things for me.
Now, a lot of women don't like men doing things for them,
you know, holding doors, helping with luggage,
because they feel that it's infantilizing or condescending.
But not me.
I love it.
Both because I love attention
and because I'm a recumbent queen
who's too much of a delicate flower to lift a finger.
I do this thing on airplanes
where when it's time for me to put my carry-on luggage
in the overhead bin,
I pretend that my bag is too heavy for me to lift
and then some man will usually get up and do it for me.
Even though I'm taller than most men, it makes me happy.
Another good thing about becoming a woman
is I integrate it into female social groups
and I found that they provide a kind of communal support
and overt affection
that male social groups generally just don't.
I find that female social style suits me better
than the male one,
which tends to be more atomized, more individualist,
where affection is always concealed
behind this semi-jokey front of competition.
Like, think about the way boys talk to each other
when they play video games.
A third improvement for me has to do with the way
men and women are treated in public space.
When you present female in public,
you're more likely to be treated as a spectacle
to be commented upon.
People, usually men, will just blurt out their opinions
about you, sometimes complimentary, sometimes insulting,
sometimes just fucking weird.
Whereas when you present male in public,
you're more likely to be treated either as invisible
or as dangerous.
Now feminists have traditionally interpreted these differences
as men asserting dominance over women in public space
and they've criticized catcalling
as being objectifying, degrading, and misogynistic.
And it certainly can be all of those things.
There's different kinds of catcalling
and I have different feelings about them.
If I'm walking with another woman and a man says,
"'Ladies, you look beautiful tonight.'"
I don't know, I like that.
I think that's nice.
It makes me feel seen, it makes me feel admired,
it boosts my confidence.
Whereas if I'm walking alone
and a drunk starts following me down the street,
singing, "'Have you seen a polythene, Pam?
"'She's so good-looking, but she looks like a man.'"
That I am less enthusiastic about.
I mean, not that that's ever happened.
I'm completely fucking unclockable.
Hey, how are you?
No one knows what it's like to be a sad trans.
I definitely get where feminists are coming from
because street harassment sucks.
I'm a lot more afraid walking alone at night
than I used to be.
And there's a lot more places
I just won't go by myself.
But on the other hand,
I do now enjoy being able to walk down the street at night
without other people acting afraid of me.
I think a lot of feminists have failed to imagine
the ways that being treated as invisible or dangerous
can also kind of suck.
In my video on incels,
I talked about male invisibility on dating apps
and how getting no attention at all
can actually be emotionally worse
than getting a lot of shitty attention.
And when it comes to being treated as dangerous,
when I was living as a man,
sometimes if I was walking at night,
a woman on the same block as me
would change sides of the street.
And I totally get why men do scary shit sometimes
and it's better to be safe.
But it's still stung a little bit
to be treated as dangerous by default.
I think it can actually be harmful,
which becomes clearer if we add race into the equation.
There's ways that white women's fear
can actually be dangerous in particular to black men.
I had an experience with this recently
when I was filming my video, The Apocalypse,
and I had rented a room in a hotel casino.
Around midnight, I was carrying some camera equipment
up to my room and I got into the elevator
with a group of people from the casino floor.
A couple floors up, everyone got out of the elevator
except for me and a single black man.
Well, I mean, he was alone.
I don't know if he was single.
That's not part of the story.
And as soon as the door closed,
he started literally whistling row, row, row your boat,
the official melody of performative innocence.
And I realized, oh shit, he is afraid that I'm afraid.
And I found that just excruciating.
I was like, oh God,
how do other white women behave in elevators?
Do they like clutch their purses?
That's so fucking embarrassing.
Nothing like that had ever happened to me
when I was living as a man.
It's not a thing between black men and white men.
It's a thing between black men and white women.
And so that dynamic was there,
not just because I'm white and he's black,
but because I'm a woman and he's a man.
And I thought of that incident again
when I was listening to the myth of male power
and Farrell says,
men's greatest weakness is their facade of strength
and women's greatest strength is their facade of weakness.
I think there is some truth to the idea
that women's perceived vulnerability
can make them powerful.
And men's perceived power can make them vulnerable.
Now I hope you're taking all this with a grain of salt
because these are just some little observations I've made
based on a handful of anecdotes.
And as rational males,
it's important that we consider the facts,
the stats and the figures.
Did you know that 46% of men
are at least 2.8 times different than 73% of women?
Look it up.
I haven't.
Because my super fucking Libra opinion
is that there's upsides and downsides
to male and female experience.
I don't actually think there's a single definite answer
to the vague and useless question,
which gender has it worse?
I consider myself a feminist
because I support reproductive rights
and I oppose workplace misogyny.
And I generally agree with a lot of the activism
that happens under the heading of feminism.
But I also think a lot of men
are just having a super fucking difficult time right now.
And that must be super fucking hard for the main hour, yo.
And I don't think feminists have an obligation
to care about male acts,
but I care about you boys.
God, I'm such a cool girl.
I think the entire Mid-Atlantic region
is about to freeze over.
No, I'm just a super fucking empathetic Pisces moon.
And I really try to understand other people's pain
because I just find it really, really funny.
I'm also really, really sobering up here.
The drugs have worn off
and I am suddenly feeling very naked.
Like it's just now occurring to me
that this is a highly inappropriate outfit
for this occasion.
So I'm going to go put on a robe
and I'll meet you back for the next section.
Postulate three, the man question.
Hi, boys, et cetera, et cetera.
Hey, how are you?
For the last three years on this channel,
I have been your vergil,
leading you through gender hell,
pickup artists, gender dysphoria,
incels, radical feminists,
non-binary genders, men's rights activists.
It seems like everybody's having gender trouble.
So what do we make of that?
Well, Gorge, a very, very rational male philosopher
named Hegel once said that the unfolding of history
is a basically rational process, Gorge.
That means that at any time in history,
society is based on certain principles
like all men are created equal
as long as there's super fucking rich and white.
And there's always contradictions within those principles,
which creates tension and eventually leads to a rupture,
like a revolution, where society has to be reorganized
according to new principles.
At least I think he was saying something like that.
It's pretty hard to make anything out
through the fog of his unreadable,
hyper-abstract, man jabbering.
God, I can't stand that shit.
Or any of the other music-hating vole cells
of the male philosophical tradition.
My point is, I think our society has reached a place
where gender as we know it just isn't working anymore.
Now, no one seems to agree why it isn't working
or how to fix it, but we do all agree that it's broken.
We have mainstream feminists saying we need
to continue advancing the rights of women.
We have conservatives saying we need
to restore the gender roles of the 1950s.
We have an increasing number of people
not identifying as men or women.
We have TERFs who think that the transgenders
are the single greatest threat to civilization.
Hey, how are you?
And we have men's rights activists saying
we need a male equivalent to feminism
to liberate men from their oppressive gender role.
Now, I wanna focus on that last one
because in principle, I agree.
I've spent a lot of the last three years
covering the manosphere.
I know, such a feminine topic, love that for me.
And from all the time I've tortured myself
waiting through these communities of incels,
pickup artists, men's rights slacktivists,
intellectual dark web, fanboys, and alt-right racists,
I've noticed that they all have one thing in common,
which is that they all recruit from the same massive pool
of sad young men.
We all know the archetype.
He has trouble relating to women.
He has no strong friendship group.
He's not excited about any long-term goals.
And he fills the void with video games and porn.
And just to clarify,
I'm not trying to take away your video games and porn.
I'm not telling you what to do with your penis.
You can rub one out to this video for all I care.
Just don't pull a gamer key on me, okay?
I live in fear.
Look, I like to believe that until the red pillars
inject their poison,
most of these boys are not bad people.
I think all of this originates
in a genuine crisis of male identity.
And I think it's happened in something
like the way men's rights activists describe.
The sacrificial role of men as warriors
is no longer widely glorified or necessary.
The traditional protector provider role of men
is being replaced by a more equal
and undefined gender dynamic.
And college professors and activists are telling men
that most of our culture's aspirational representations
of manhood are toxic and bad.
But without an attractive replacement vision
of aspirational manhood,
average young men can only envision their future as what?
The beta, the cock, the new male.
And in a post-left tube internet,
we're so used to laughing at this vocabulary.
And to be fair, it is very funny.
But we forgot, especially us grills,
that for a lot of men,
these words actually do tap into a deep existential angst.
And a lot of leftists go,
well, how can men be so angsty, especially white men?
They're so privileged.
But existential angst is often a disease of privilege.
If you're actually being oppressed, you have a struggle.
You have something to fight for and therefore a purpose.
But for a lot of men,
their lack of purpose puts them in search of a struggle.
And that, along with the loneliness
and the lack of a positive identity,
is what makes men vulnerable to recruitment
by the Manosphere groups and by the alt-right.
And even worse, it seems to be a motivating factor
for the small but growing number of young men
who decide to pick up a gun
and open fire in a shopping center.
There were two mass shootings during the weekend
I was writing this video, resulting in 31 deaths.
Both shooters were young white men,
and one of them posted about the shooting
on an alt-right image board.
Now, I don't pretend to fully understand
the motives of mass shooters,
but I don't think it's a coincidence
that basically all of them are men.
One possible interpretation of the mass shooting epidemic
is that these killers are trying to resurrect
some horrible parody of ancient masculine glory
and therefore to be seen and recognized as men
by unleashing Homeric violence in a fucking Walmart.
And of course, there's also the racism
of the alt-right killers
and the wounded sexual entitlement of the incel killers.
But that racism and that sexual entitlement are learned,
and men in the throes of a masculinity crisis
are more receptive to learning it.
So you can try to take down their forums
and ban their accounts and deplatform their events,
but as long as this male identity crisis goes on,
I don't see any end to these problems.
Theorem four, what do?
There is this media narrative that has emerged
around me and around this channel.
And by the way, the fact that there's any kind
of media narrative about this channel
is super fucking coconuts,
because let's be real, Gorge,
I just wanted to form milk on my face
and talk about the mouthfeel.
But there's this media narrative
that my role in the discourse
is de-radicalizing young alt-right men.
And it's true that if you read
the leftist YouTube fan subreddits,
I used to be alt-right posts are so common
they're considered cliche.
And some of them cite me as an influence
in changing their politics,
which I love for them and I'm super fucking happy about it,
but it's also a lot of responsibility.
They're my boys and I worry about my boys
because in reality, it's not like they go
from far-right extremists to complacent centrists.
No, most of them go far left.
A lot of them become communists or anarchists.
So I watched them go from far to my right
to significantly to my left.
It's not really de-radicalizing so much as re-radicalizing.
And I think it's definitely an improvement,
but I still worry it's not gonna be enough.
I worry about my boys because I don't think
that the left yet has a final solution to the man question.
Oh no, that was worded poorly.
You know, there's kind of two options
the left has for disillusioned men.
The first is the Marxist promise of economic revolution.
We say, well, actually, yes, you are oppressed,
but you're oppressed because of your class, not your gender.
So just join the revolution.
It's gonna be super fucking crazy.
We're gonna overthrow the bourgeoisie, meow, meow,
smash no voting, and then things will be better for you.
Now, I think that has a couple of limitations.
One is that I look at the far left
and I see a bunch of people who spend all their time
accusing each other of abusing moderator privileges
in closed Facebook groups.
And I'm concerned that might not succeed
at ending capitalism, meow, meow.
Like definitely vote for Bernie Sanders
or Elizabeth Warren or whoever,
but if you're investing all of your hopes
on a capital R revolution,
I worry that can become like waiting for Godot
or waiting for the rapture.
So we do need political change,
but I feel like I'm failing my boys
if I'm somehow giving them the idea
that revolution is their only hope.
Because here's the other thing.
Even if we did succeed ending capitalism,
there would still be gender.
And my boys would still need some model
of what it is to lead a good life as a man.
Now, the other option the left has for disillusioned men
is the feminist tranquilizer.
We say, look, toxic masculinity
is the reason you don't have room to express your feelings.
And it's the reason you feel lonely and inadequate.
So while feminism tells women you hate your body
and you're constantly doubting yourself
because society did this to you and needs to change,
we kind of just tell men,
you're lonely and suicidal because you're toxic.
Stop it.
We tell them they're broken
without really telling them how to fix themselves.
I think what we need is a new positive ideal of manhood,
which I don't think is something
that women can create for men, even if they wanted to.
And honestly, the best way for that to happen
may actually be some kind of men's movement.
But on the left, the whole idea of a men's movement
is basically taboo because the men's movement we all know
is basically just a backlash to feminism.
And at worst, it's just straight up misogyny.
And look, boys, I understand that being lectured
about man spreading for most of 2015
was super fucking hard for you
and you're still mad about it,
but posting endless outrage porn
about false rape accusations and paternity fraud
isn't actually gonna make life any better for you.
Because yes, those things are horrible when they happen,
but they're not systemic issues that affect most men.
I think what would actually improve life for most men
is a positive ideal of 21st century manhood.
But that's not something I can give to you
because in case you hadn't noticed,
I'm literally a fucking woman.
I can't mom you through this one, boys, you're on your own.
You have to help each other.
So find each other in the comments section,
meet up on Reddit, make friends, clean your room,
leave the house, fuck each other.
I don't know, it's worth a try.
And feeling that,
you could always throw in the towel and become a woman.
Worked for me.
There it is!
So yes.
It was hyper sculptures.
We had
I'm just trying to give like malady energy.
Yeah, it is, it's really, it is English, it's very John McLean, very Quentin Crisp, very
aristocrat.
I'm super fucking naked right now, that's crazy.
That's super fucking crazy.
According to traditional gender roles, men are useful for their labor and women are useful
for their wombs.
Well, I'm a woman without a womb, so I guess I'm useless, but I'm beautifully useless.
Ugh, I'm a work of art.
The problem with our society is we've turned men into women.
It's disgusting.
As an ally to men, it's not my place to speak for them or speak over them, but I just want
to use my platform to uplift some male voices who might not have as many subscribers as
me.
Okay.
And I'm not hypergamous, I don't need a rich husband.
If I may quote Cher, I don't need a rich man.
I am a rich man.
It's not even really much of an insult being called a delusional man.
Many great books have been written by delusional men.
So bad.
I'm bad.
I'm really bad.
Okay.
