9-1-1, what are you reporting?
Uh, there's someone or some kind of creature prancing around out here.
Okay, is it a person, an animal, or...
I can't tell. It looks like a woman, but she's about six feet tall. Big man-ham.
I'm sorry, you're calling to report a tall woman with man-ham?
Well, she's covered in butter-five, and she has giant wings.
I'm sorry, what?
Oh, and she talks like a fat ****.
Memph.
Out of this wood do not desire to go.
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so that thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
Hail mortals, I come to thee from my fairy grove to bring thee tidings of great woe.
Western culture is being destroyed by cocks and by gender-bending intoxication and sodomy.
You know, things that have never happened in Europe.
There's a lot of people talking lately about the West and Western culture and Western civilization.
But what do those words even mean?
I guess the mature and responsible thing to do would be a simple educational video to edify the public.
Fuck that!
The people demand blood, and I'm thirsty for blood.
And by blood, I mean dick.
And by dick, I mean corndogs.
And by corndogs, I mean sixteen of them over the course of an evening.
And by evening, I mean morning.
And by morning, I mean between eight o'clock and eight fifteen.
And by corndogs, I mean dick.
Who's up first?
Well, Angry White Guy YouTube is usually talking about Western culture,
and it's been a while since I've done a video response, so let's see what's going on in that part of the internet.
McGonk is here, baby doll.
What?
I don't want to die!
That is a mad.
Wow, I've never done a video response to such a powerful wizard.
The second and third clues are Elsa's magical powers and the song Let It Go.
Both of these clues have to do with coming out.
Wrong!
Her magic power is the conflict of the plot.
And her letting it go is just her realizing her true potential
and her ability to conquer and rule her kingdom.
She will destroy her enemies and raise their castles to the ground.
The song Let It Go is basically, fuck this shit, I'm conquering everyone.
So just to be clear, this is a grown man who has addressed himself
as far as a sorcerer to shout about a YouTube channel for preschoolers.
It almost feels like punching down at this point.
At least the golden one was mask for mask.
Who can I punch up at?
I don't like talking about punching.
It makes me feel like one of those people who talks about punching turfs.
I would never punch a turf.
My hands are too feminine.
And my fingers are tired.
Someone massage them.
Who can I claw up at?
The fundamental assumptions of Western civilization are valid.
How about that?
Dad, stop. Ugh, get out of my life.
In my video about Jordan Peterson, I talked about how he posits a struggle
between the West and postmodern neo-Marxism.
I argued that Pomo No Mo is a label that includes a bunch of incompatible ideas,
none of which are in any sense non-Western.
Unless, of course, you equate the West with white people and Marxism with the Jews,
which, surely, no one involved in this conversation is doing, right?
I'm guessing he wasn't a fan of the bath scene.
In this video, I want to look a little bit closer at the whole concept of the West
and the people who claim to defend it.
Wow, Daddy, nice sword.
God damn it, we're going to need to aim even higher.
Ladies, gentlemen, and beyond, I give you...
The President of the United States of America,
big dick, special big boy Donald Trump.
Just as Poland could not be broken,
I declare today for the world to hear that
the West will never, ever be broken.
Our values will prevail, our people will thrive,
and our civilization will triumph.
So we've got the most powerful fuckboy on the planet
prattling on about the battle for the survival of Western civilization,
so I suppose we should probably figure out what that's supposed to mean.
Which is too bad, because that's going to require a lot of thinking.
And I don't feel like thinking, because my brain is tired.
Someone massage it.
And soon, mechanically,
dispirited after a dreary day with the prospect of a depressing morrow,
I raised to my lips a spoonful of the tea
in which I had soaked a morsel of the corn dog.
No sooner had the warm liquid mixed with the dog touched my palate,
then a shudder ran through me, and I stopped,
intent upon the extraordinary thing that was happening to me.
An exquisite pleasure had invaded my senses,
something isolated, detached, with no suggestion of its origin.
And at once the vicissitudes of life had become indifferent to me,
its disasters innocuous, its brevity illusory,
this new sensation having had on me,
the effect which a love has of post-preambulatory banter.
Whether you're in Fashy YouTube or Pomo, Nomo, Akadomino,
it's common to take for granted that there is a historically continuous,
clearly defined thing called Western Civilization
that starts in ancient Athens and flourishes in our own era
of enlightened philosopher kings.
On the track!
On the track!
On the track!
But this is really just a story constructed retrospectively
by modern people for particular purposes.
It's like an origin myth.
In an article titled,
There is No Such Thing as Western Civilization,
the philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah points out
that for the ancient Greek historian Herodotus,
there was no such thing as the West.
The world was divided into three continents he called Europe,
Asia, and Libya.
Herodotus had no notion that these three continents
corresponded to different types of people,
and he never referred to any group of people called Europeans.
In fact, he was much more familiar with Egypt and Persia,
in which he traveled,
than with the faraway and foreign people of northern Europe.
So the idea of the West has to be more recent than that.
Really, there is no one idea of the West,
which is an umbrella term that includes a lot of
discontinuous cultures and contradictory ideas.
According to me, there are six different concepts often invoked
under the heading of the West.
Let's talk about them now!
Concept 1.
Christendom and Judeo-Christian Values
In the year 732,
a soldier named Charles Martel led Frankish forces to victory
at the Battle of Tor,
against the Islamic forces that had advanced from Spain
into what is now France,
effectively halting the spread of the Umayyad Caliphate
into Western Europe.
According to Apiah,
the first recorded use of the Latin term
Europensis, or Europeans,
dates from 754 and describes the victors of the Battle of Tor,
distinguishing Christians from Muslims.
In the late Middle Ages,
the concept of Christendom appeared
and was used to distinguish the Christian world
from the Islamic world and from paganism.
This idea of Christendom is arguably the earliest precursor
to the modern concept of the West.
Notice that the term itself
posits an us-versus-them dichotomy,
where Christians are the us and Muslims are the them.
The Christian inheritance is still invoked today
by defenders of the West,
like Lil Benny and Professor Studied the Blade,
often under the heading of Judeo-Christian Values,
a term usually used to falsely imply
that contemporary moral norms
derive from such a generic parochial
and incomplete document as the Ten Commandments,
as if every major civilization didn't have laws against murder,
as if the prohibition of graven images
has any contemporary influence whatsoever,
as if it isn't an embarrassment that there are four laws
protecting snowflake Yahweh's easily triggered ego
and non-condemning slavery and rape.
And what if I like it when my neighbor covets my ass?
Bible jokes.
The other main use of Judeo-Christian Values
is as a bludgeon against single parents and the queers.
Speaking of which,
what exactly are the family values we inherit from Christendom?
Two kids and a dog just like the Bible says?
Well, no.
Polygyny is specifically acknowledged in the Old Testament
and not forbidden in either testament.
Even in the beginning,
Eve couldn't keep her hands away from strange serpents
and who can blame her,
and Joseph was a massive cock who raised another man's child.
But it's cool he was into that.
In the Middle Ages,
the Catholic Church gradually enforced
the one man and one woman view of marriage.
Although in formerly pagan lands,
this idea was slow to take hold.
Charles Martel's grandson, Charlemagne,
had 18 kids by at least 10 wives and concubines
because he was a proud son of the North,
100% Natty, and Alpha as fuck.
I'm sorry, I just can't stop.
The Golden One, his soul and mind are intermingled.
Probably because we both played
1200 hours of Age of Empires in 1999.
And then something went terribly wrong.
Fuckin' 9-11.
It used to be such an innocent decision
to play as the Franks or the Saracens
that it became this huge civilizational struggle,
and that's why this guy is a fascist
and I grew up to be a woman.
Thanks a lot, Osama.
Being transgender is so weird.
You have these childhood memories
that are just totally discordant
with your adult gender identity.
How do you even deal with that?
Well, here's how.
You bond with straight guys
over your shared Age of Empires nostalgia
and then you fuck them.
I'm not like other girls.
No.
Concept 2, Enlightenment Values.
So in 1517, an annoying social justice warrior
named Martin Luther nails his list
of whiny complaints to the door of the church in Wittenberg.
That kicks off a century or so of brutal violence
between Catholics and Protestants.
That eventually chills out,
but then the 18th century rolls around
and shit's just fuckin' crazy.
There are various fops and dandies and macaronis
getting wired out of their heads at coffee houses
and babbling about enlightenment
like the beatnik trash they are.
Then, 300 years later,
a bunch of drinks sought in fedora tippers
appointed themselves intellectual descendants of Voltaire
before sinking into sweeping
sexual harassment allegations under the rug
and making 55 consecutive YouTube videos
about how Anita Sarkeesian is destroying video games.
That's not what they were discussing
at the Parisian Salon.
This is all very embarrassing,
but still, some of these Enlightenment values,
science, liberty, skepticism about dogma,
these are basically good ideas
and they're part of the amalgamation we call the West.
But it's important to keep in mind
that these ideas are not Judeo-Christian.
In fact, they're specifically opposed to that way of thinking.
So the sum of what we now think of as the West
actually contains major contradictions
because the history of the West
is a history of change and revolution.
So when a new movement comes along,
like for instance a bunch of Buzzkill sad sacks pointing out
that actually our society is still pretty terrible
to women, people of color, and gender and sexual minorities,
it might not be the smartest thing
to just dismiss it as some kind of sinister
postmodern new Marxist cuckoldry.
It could be the next Reformation,
in a history marked by a series of reformations.
If there are any historians watching this,
please call it the SJW Reformation.
Think about the Protestant Reformation.
At the time,
that probably seemed like a civilizational threat
to the Holy Roman Empire,
and it kind of was.
But in retrospect,
we see the Reformation as just as important a moment
in Western culture
as the medieval period that preceded it.
But today's Counter Reformation,
made up of people like Orangie Smalls
and Dr. Clean Your Room,
uh, insist on pretending the current Reformation
is some kind of alien threat.
And as for the Counter Counter Reformation,
well, that's what you pay a trashy tran to do.
Concept three, Western culture.
The idea of the West has its roots in the medieval schism
between the Western Roman Catholic Church
and the Eastern Orthodox Church.
But in its contemporary sense,
the idea of Western culture didn't really exist
until the imperialist era of the late 19th and early 20th centuries,
when it was popularized in part by Oswald Spangler's
1918 book, The Decline of the West,
an important influence on Nazi ideology.
As long as people have been talking about Western culture,
they've been worried about its alleged decline and degeneration,
as I've discussed in several earlier videos,
which I encourage you not to watch.
But the idea of Western culture
was influential well beyond the Third Reich.
At the height of European imperialism,
the idea of a superior high culture of the West
was a convenient excuse to plunder and exploit
the mysterious Orient.
And even though we've swept the more overtly supremacist
rhetoric under the rug,
the idea of Western culture is still a foundational concept
in our schools and universities,
where you have to take courses like
History of Western Civilization or Western Literature,
but you didn't actually do any of the readings for
because you were too busy crouching in the bushes
outside the dean's office,
vomiting up a couple pints of Malibu.
The consequence of this Western culture education
is that we now all have this sense
that we belong to a continuous civilization
whose crowning achievements are the Ten Commandments,
Jesus fucking Christ, Athenian pederasts,
cathedrals, Mozart, human rights,
science, and iPhones.
But the reality is,
this is an essentialist conglomeration
of a history that's much more non-linear
than we often think.
We in the West claim to be the inheritors
of the ancient traditions of Aristotle and Abraham,
but the Islamic world is entitled to just the same claim.
St. Thomas Aquinas,
one of the most powerful Catholic sorcerers,
is largely responsible for introducing
Aristotle to Christian universities,
but he never would have encountered Aristotle
in the first place had not ancient Greek philosophy
been translated and commentated
by Islamic scholars like Ibn Rushd.
So the origins of Western culture
aren't really unique to us at all,
and the stuff that is unique is just a mess of contradictions.
On the one hand, you have Judeo-Christian values,
and on the other hand, you have degenerates
like William Shakespeare,
who wrote plays for men to dress up as fairy queens
and make out with each other,
which, for the record, is disgusting,
and I condemn it, and I'll have no part in it.
Because if you didn't know, in Shakespeare times,
boys in drag played female parts.
I wish I had female parts.
Working on it.
Concept four, The Free World.
From 1941 to 1945,
Franklin Roosevelt's vice president was Henry Wallace,
an agricultural scientist from Iowa,
whom Democratic Party officials despised
for being what we'd now call a democratic socialist.
Wallace later ran for president in 1948
as a third-party candidate on a platform
of universal health care, anti-segregation,
in opposition to the Cold War.
During the campaign, Wallace was widely mocked
in the press for his spiritualism,
his refusal to disavow the Communist Party's endorsement,
and what Time Magazine called his assault on the South,
that is, his, quote,
ostentatious ride through cities and towns
with his Negro secretary beside him,
for which he was pelted with tomatoes and eggs.
The poor, naive Wallace commented,
there is something so unlovely about hate
when you see it distorting the human face.
We'll get used to it, buddy.
This is America.
Am I lecturing someone from 1948
about how bigoted this country is?
This is fine.
Wallace received only 2.4% of the popular vote
in the 1948 election,
and he's now best remembered for his 1942 speech
titled, The Century of the Common Man,
in which he contrasted what he called
the slave world of fascists with the free world,
which he described as an incomplete
and ongoing international people's revolution.
No Nazi counter-revolution will stop him.
The common man will smoke the Hitler Stooges
out into the open in the United States,
in Latin America and in India.
He will destroy their influence.
No Laval's, no Mussolini's
will be tolerated in a free world.
Wallace had an especially left-wing take on it,
but it was common during World War II
when the phrase the free world
first entered common parlance
to include all the countries opposing the Axis powers,
including the Dirty Reds.
After the war, the phrase the free world
remained common in American politics,
but the meaning shifted.
Instead of referring to the international alliance
against fascism, it referred to the capitalist west
as opposed to the communist east.
The idea of the free capitalist west
is still an important ingredient
in this jumbled concept we call western civilization.
So when lobster dad says there's a struggle
between Marxism and the west,
it seems at first like he's just stuck
in the 1980s or something.
Doesn't he know there's no more Eastern Bloc?
Dad, what year do you think it is?
Are you at war in your head with the goddamn Ruskies?
They're on your side now, remember?
The truth is, he's just using the term Neo-Marxism
to invoke red scare sentiment
in opposition to the SJW Reformation.
But the point I'm trying to make
is that the west is a concept,
or rather several contradictory concepts,
that are always posited in particular
political circumstances
as one side of an us versus them opposition.
Whether it's the Christian west versus the infidels,
the Enlightenment west versus Islam,
the cultured west versus the colonized savages,
the capitalist west versus the communist east,
or the white European west versus
the Jewish cultural Marxist plot
to cock the sons of the north
by besmirching the purity of their fair maidens
and inundating their countries
with a barbarous board of third world migrants.
I guess I have to say something about that.
Concept five, blood and soil.
If you ask leading Nazi social media influencer
Richard Spencer what he thinks the west is,
he'll tell you that it's a cultural, geographic,
and genetic inheritance bequeathed to European people
by their fair-skinned ancestors.
To Spencer, the idea that a person of Asian or African descent
could be part of the west is ridiculous
because for Spencer to be western is to be white.
Now the thing about that is,
as an analysis of the common usage of the term the west,
it's not even wrong.
Consider Latin America where the main language is spoken
are Spanish, Portuguese, and French
where the majority of religion is Roman Catholicism.
Why is this region generally not regarded as part of the west?
Why are immigrants from this region demonized as alien intruders?
Well, because its people have too much melanin to join the club.
Or to be more accurate,
the flexible and historically variant concepts
of whiteness and the west have been constructed
so as to exclude them.
And I've already spent half my YouTube career
on delirious gay screeching about Nazis
so I don't want to do more of that now.
But suffice to say,
the association between whiteness and the west
is always lurking beneath the surface
and when whiteness rears its head proudly,
the result is the ugliest crimes our civilization is capable of.
As I'm making this video,
the machinery of the middle stages of those crimes
is up and running yet again,
thanks to a refugee crisis in Europe
and a racist demagogue in the United States.
And once more,
both continents are dotted with barbed wire,
refugee ghettos,
and internment camps full of children torn from parents.
Concept six, the evil west.
The west, in many ways,
is an inherently supremacist concept.
It's thought to be more civilized,
more holy,
and more cultured than the non-west.
But there are some ridiculous college professors
who adopt this story wholesale but flip it on its head.
According to them,
the west is not uniquely civilized
but uniquely uncivilized,
cruel,
imperialistic,
racist,
and genocidal.
This just perpetuates the same essentializing error.
Europeans aren't inherently more evil
any more than they're inherently more civilized.
If capitalist imperialism had burst out of Africa
400 years ago,
the result would have been just as brutal.
So instead of vilifying the west,
I think we should get rid of the concept altogether,
adopt a more cosmopolitan understanding of ourselves,
and acknowledge that the world is too complicated
to reduce to simple us and them binaries.
Which is not to say that we have to get rid of Aristotle
in classical music and the Cheesecake Factory.
We can still keep all that shit
while eliminating the propaganda
and injustice that surrounds it.
Coda.
My mind is a predator that preys upon itself.
What if traps are gang?
What if no one can ever love you?
What if happiness is impossible?
What if everyone who compliments me is lying
so they can laugh at me later
when I delusionally feel good about themselves?
What if when you die you stay conscious
and then you just are...
What if I'm standing in an awkward way
and it looks weird?
What if Blanchard is right?
What are these horrible goddamn noises
coming out of my mouth?
Sometimes you just need a break from your own brain
and music is really great for that.
I've always liked classical music.
When I listened to Mozart or Mendelssohn
or even an amateur like Satie,
my mind is lifted to a higher plateau.
And I don't care what civilization the composer came from
or whether he was a bigot or a sexist.
And I don't want to know because I need this.
I need this feeling that makes me just want to
take a big...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
The end.
