Have you ever read a comic where the hero fought an evil corporation or tyrannical government?
Some might call storylines like these or images like these ones a subtle political statement.
But others, however, can't or choose not to see any politics here.
These are just colorful images of adventures unconnected to the world of politics.
And if they start to see politics, that must be the product of some kind of sinister agenda
to push the creator's beliefs onto people.
The only politics in their mind that should be in comics are bland, centrist, mainstream
opinions.
Nothing that could be considered objectionable or outside the norm.
Or at least, the norm is they see it.
This crowd of complainers, which spawned movements such as Game or Gate, typically parade the
mantra of having politics shove down their throat.
And politics, in their mind, often includes diverse characters and the hiring of diverse
characters, all to push a sinister progressive agenda.
If the complaint is that the stories are bad, why not complain about the writing instead
of the diversity?
Maybe the problem really is because some people just don't like seeing diversity in their
comics.
Comics can be many things, from edgy underground political commentary to touching melodrama
about the trials of growing up in a man's world.
For the purposes of this video, though, we're going to be looking exclusively at the genre
synonymous with comic books, and that's superheroes.
That all started with Action Comics number one, the first appearance of Superman.
In the coming decades, he would be followed by Batman, Wonder Woman, Captain America,
The Fantastic Four, Spider-Man, Wolverine, and some other characters you may have heard
of.
And probably way, way more you haven't.
You may have noticed one thing most of these characters have in common.
The majority of them are men, and most of them are white.
From the 1930s to the 1960s, the US was a very white place, and superhero comics were
typically read by young boys.
Publishers knew that these young boys enjoyed reading characters that looked like them.
Publishers also liked money, so that's who they sold their books to.
So this wasn't exactly a nefarious plot, but rather the blind prejudice of capitalism
that gave us all these white guy characters.
And the few times minorities were included, we'd get, ugh, things like this.
While many characters were forgotten, thankfully, in some cases, a few persisted.
As the US became more diverse, publishers sought ways to pursue that expanding demographic
of non-white guys, and maybe the even more elusive demographic of women.
To that end, an increasingly broad range of diverse characters were and are still being
created.
Of course, the earliest attempts were not always the most thoughtful.
Luke Cage was the product of the Blaxploitation craze of the 70s, and Shang-Chi, a product
of the Kung Fu movie craze.
These characters are obviously cheap stereotypes, although they have grown over the years to
be a bit more interesting and complex.
In recent years, the two biggest superhero comic publishers, Marvel and DC Comics, have
tried to escape racial stereotypes and present as wide a lineup of diverse characters as
they possibly could.
I'm going to talk briefly about Black Panther.
I'm assuming you've probably seen it because I think everyone saw it.
The opening scene of Black Panther tells you a lot about who this movie is intended for.
It features Black children taking a break from their game of basketball to look up at
something exciting happening.
It's an image you could have seen in theaters around the world when Black Panther was screening.
To me, it seemed like a very clear message that this is who the movie was for.
Not just because it had a black superhero, like Blade or Spawn.
This was a film with a writer, director, and cast that was predominantly black.
Set in Africa, and ensconced in African culture, it meant a lot to people.
I remember seeing this video after Black Panther came out.
I've never left a movie and wanted to start a dance party, but that's how much it means
to people to have a character who finally speaks to their experiences and culture.
It's a chance to feel as though their stories are finally being told.
Stories that weren't being told in superhero movies about white Americans.
This is why representation matters.
Comics have been reaching out to audiences in the same spirit, with new characters such
as the New Muslim Miss Marvel, a half-black half-Hispanic Spider-Man, and a black Captain
America.
And if you're wondering why we're getting so many variations on the same characters,
that's kind of been a thing in comics for decades.
We've had four flashes, five robins, and more green lanterns than I can count.
For what successes there have been, there have been far more failures.
A sad fact of comics is that most people don't like new characters as much as the old ones.
Things typically revert back to when the character was most popular, which is generally what
they were like in their earliest stories.
It's why Spider-Man is often depicted as a teenager.
These are the tropes and eras that made them successful, and the ones that are most familiar
and comfortable to readers, going back to a time when characters were typically white
men.
Criticism from the left about the state of comics isn't particularly new.
Gail Simone, the eventual writer of comics including Secret Six and Birds of Prey, teamed
with some of her feminist friends to create the website Women in Refrigerators back in
1999.
This references a rather infamous story where Green Lantern's girlfriend was murdered and
stuffed into a refrigerator.
In addition to that story, it chronicled the many ways in which female characters had been
metaphorically stuffed into fridges to create some pathos for a male character.
Most controversy that popped up tended to be storms and teacups, a lot of intense discussion
and debate, though usually in a few months it would kind of go away.
Like this one of a statue of Mary Jane where she's washing Spider-Man's costume, people
thought that creating a statue where Spider-Man's girlfriend is washing his clothes in a thong
and low-cut shirt might not be the most positive image for women.
Then this whole thing called gamergate started, and suddenly people were very upset about
depictions of women and minorities in video games, and this rhetoric was sadly quite transferable
to the comics community.
Then there was this variant cover of the first issue of Spider-Woman by Italian artist
Milo Menara, revealed in August of 2014.
The uproar around this was initially called Spider-Buttgate, it was the controversy of
the moment when the term comicsgate came to life.
As best as I can tell, the term comicsgate was originally used ironically, but very quickly
it fell into favor with a group not too dissimilar from the gamergate crowd.
While the movement was still some time from really taking off, it's here that the term
first took root in the minds of a few people.
The first high-profile harassment case often attributed to the comicsgate crowd targeted
Chelsea Kane.
Before entering comics, Kane distinguished herself writing a series of successful thriller
novels with the first three all being New York Times bestsellers.
In 2016 she was hired by Marvel to work on a new Mockingbird ongoing series, though critically
well received, its sales were less than stellar, and it was cancelled with issue number eight.
For that final issue though, Kane had the artist produce a cover where Mockingbird was
wearing a t-shirt that read, ask me about my feminist agenda.
The backlash to this cover was immediate, it got the full anti-SJW treatment, including
a shout out in a Carl Benjamin video where he misreads the title.
This is actually the cover of a Marvel magazine, Civil War II, Civil War II, Civil War II.
Although the harassment surrounding Kane's tenure on Mockingbird eventually drove her
away from social media entirely, reflecting back on it in 2018 she also highlights the
positive experiences of fans coming to support her through that time.
It even translated to a sales spike for the first volume of the Mockingbird ongoing series
and two Eisner nominations for the title, including one for Kane as writer of the year.
Kane didn't describe the Twitter mob after the eighth issue as driving her off Twitter
though, rather it was the everyday harassment that really got to her and she experienced
it constantly.
The intense outroer after that number eight issue was just the most public symptom taken
from her blog.
I quit Twitter, I deactivated my account Thursday after receiving several misogynist and or
jerky comments the night before.
Several.
Not dozens.
Not a deluge.
One is too many.
I was tired of wasting energy dealing with the constant low-level misogyny and meanness
that pollutes a certain kind of comic fandom.
I posted some comments reflecting my frustration.
The next morning, when I logged on to deactivate, I saw that I had lost approximately 1,500
followers overnight.
I also saw my notifications were filling up with new followers.
I saw that comments were flooding my feed.
I had no idea what was happening.
I had never seen that kind of activity on my account, but I figured it wasn't good.
I went through the deactivation.
I assumed I had been trolled in some kind of organized sense, but I didn't know.
Still don't.
Frankly, I didn't care.
It was moot.
I was done.
Kane didn't leave comics, though she would later say she felt as if comics had left her.
She's currently working on a series called Man-Eaters for Image Comics.
It's about girls turning into wildcats when they go through their period.
She has yet to write again for Marvel Comics.
Kane was the first high-profile target of a mob that would target women, typically working
for Marvel Comics, which is perceived as being controlled by the SJWs.
In July of 2017, Marvel editor Heather Antos posted a selfie of herself with a number of
other women who worked at Marvel Comics getting a milkshake.
It was a tribute to Flo Steinberg, the most prominent female face at Marvel Comics during
its major boom period in the 1960s.
Steinberg was officially one of the only two full-time employees at Marvel, with the artists
largely working on a freelance basis and the only other full-timer being Stan Lee.
This seemingly innocuous photo prompted outrage, typically from men unhappy with the recent
direction of Marvel Comics, creating more titles featuring non-white male characters
and hiring more non-white male creators.
The outrage backfired pretty hard as the Make Mine Milkshake hashtag caught on, people rallied
around many of these women, showing solidarity in the most American way imaginable, drinking
a milkshake for women's rights.
But momentum was building, and the movement would ferment from here.
Although there is no central authority in the comicscape movement, we can get a vague
idea of their grievances by looking at the most common criticisms and demands they make
of what superhero comics should be.
Summarized as best I can from the lists I looked up online, their demands are
Less politics, specifically left-wing or progressive politics and stories.
Not hiring writers and artists on the basis of their gender, sexuality, or ethnicity.
Not replacing, embarrassing, or changing older heroes.
To have their complaints be taken seriously and not brushed aside as bigotry.
What's perhaps most noticeable in the language of comic skaters is that they don't consider
themselves a subgroup of dissatisfied comics fans, but rather they are THE comics fans.
They are at the core of what keeps this hobby churning along.
The silent majority who are frustrated with having their concerns being swept aside for
the sake of trying to attract an audience that does not represent actual comic fans
and can't possibly love the medium as much as they do.
It ties into the whole idea of a fake geek girl, a charge that was leveled specifically
at Anthos and often other female creators.
That a girl invading a space primarily dominated by men can't possibly be just as big a fan
of the subculture, or if they were real fans, they wouldn't want to make any changes.
It's not a coincidence that a space dominated by white men is threatened by the inclusion
of anyone who doesn't fit that characteristic.
You can see that in the implicit assumption of point number two that anyone hired to
work in comics that isn't a white man is likely there because of some affirmative action
program rather than their ability.
I could go on about the many shitty white male writers and artists who have worked in
comics without their identity being part of any criticism against them, but I really only
highlight these claims from the comic skate crowd so we can understand what their complaints
are, and as we'll see how that masks a bigotry that probably exists on a conscious
or unconscious level.
Before going on, I also want to acknowledge something important.
None of this animosity is new, and that I've highlighted a negative reaction to white women
doesn't mean it wasn't, and isn't also happening to men and women of color and LGBT
creators.
We live in a world where white women feminism tends to grab more attention than others,
and while I won't pretend that white women don't face prejudice in their lives, it's
a bit frustrating that the bigotry faced by other groups isn't as visibly opposed.
After the milkshake moment, a few prominent voices began to appear within the comics game
movement.
The most vocal is almost certainly Richard Meyer, who creates YouTube videos under the
channel name Comics and Diversity, rebranded in 2019 as Think About Comics.
The channel is typically Meyer commenting on issues, both physical comics and actual
news issues, relating to the comic industry, usually railing against characters, comics,
and stories he feels are being pushed upon the fans by the SJWs.
His videos often include him destroying comic books he doesn't like.
His YouTube channel has grown quite a bit, and is currently sitting at nearly 94,000
subscribers, and he's been featured on programs like the Jim Jefferies show.
We of course are rockin' those A-cups, anything above a B-cup.
You hate women.
Ms. Marvel was introduced as a Pakistani-American Muslim, Riri Williams, who replaced Iron Man.
If you don't like her, it's because you're racist or sexist, but probably both.
It would upset a racist.
I think it would.
His commentary is perhaps most notable in that it absolutely refuses to understand subtext
or see superhero comics as anything more than mindless entertainment.
As dopey as he may sound, he does have a following.
And in one video in particular, The Dark Roast, a private video since deleted, a darker side
came out.
Here are a few comments he made.
I really didn't want to read this, so I asked for some help.
Heather Antos is a cum dumpster who got a job at Marvel because Jordan White is a sad
sack perv who jacked off to her, okay?
The story is that she went and saw him at a convention.
It's like, I'd like to be an editor, and he's like, oh, this is going to be a hard sell
for HR.
Like, Jordan White's going to go to Marvel HR.
I really need you to hire her.
My spank bank is getting incredibly low.
What?
What the fuck?
Okay.
Magdalene Visagio is a fucking crazy person, a criminal, who is definitely, definitely
going to kill himself, and it's just where, when, and how.
By the way, mags did not transition.
Mags is a...
I don't even want to say this.
It's literally just a pervert.
I can't read this.
This, I...
Yeah, this is so bad.
Yeah, not going to read this next sentence.
But they came along just at the right time that we're all, oh, no.
But they came along just at the right time that we're all the trans issues, and they're
like, oh, we can weaponize this.
Fuck that comment, okay.
So yeah, that's the kind of guy he is.
He defended himself later on his YouTube channel, saying that these were all jokes, and shouldn't
be held against him because he only said them once.
I can't believe if you never heard the context that you're actually offended.
I can't believe that, actually, no joke.
But again, I've made 1,000 videos, 1,000 more.
Is it a pattern behavior?
Has it been repeated?
Am I doing one like this right now?
There was actually...
The plan was actually to do several of them, but after it was done, I was like, pfft, I
don't know what I'm doing.
That was lame.
It was lame.
It was forced.
I actually found it to be very boring.
When I re-listened to it five months later, I was like, this is one of my worst videos
ever.
It's so boring.
Right.
I guess if you say it once, it doesn't count.
He thinks he did a bad job in telling the jokes.
He doesn't seem to be upset with their actual content or any of the claims within them.
Meyer has also made videos alongside comic artist Ethan Van Scryver.
Although many voices of ComicsGate are typically fans outside the industry, Van Scryver was
an established artist, having worked for Marvel and DC Comics.
Most notable for having done the artwork for the dreadful Green Lantern Rebirth and Flash
Rebirth miniseries is...
Van Scryver has been something of an asshole for years, and his association with Meyer
seems to be continuing that trend.
Meyer also had another run-in with an industry pro, writer Mark Wade.
Wade has been especially prolific in his comics writing career, including a spectacular run
on Fantastic Four with Mike Waringo, and a fantastic run on Daredevil with Chris Samney.
In September of 2017, Mark Wade issued a statement on his Facebook.
This statement is in regard to the Baltimore Comic Convention.
There's a serial YouTube harasser named Richard C. Meyer who I'm told may be attending
as a fan.
If anyone sees this gentleman, or any of his friends, I need you to come find me and tell
me immediately.
Even if I'm on a panel, come up and interrupt.
And this conversation eventually happened over the phone.
Wade and Meyer chose to keep the discussion private.
Instead, following the encounter, Wade had a follow-up post on his Facebook.
The actual problem is that there are a large number of younger creators, professionals,
staffers in this industry, a larger number than you could possibly imagine who do not
have that same privilege.
In this case, a platform.
They are being harassed, repeatedly, and it's getting worse.
As I say, I've been talking with many of them over the last few weeks.
These are not histrionic people.
These are not overly dramatic people.
These are reasonable adults, some of whom cannot speak out because of their employers.
And yet, they are legitimately frightened by harassers who threaten to come find them
at conventions, at stores, at their homes.
One was told she would be burned to death.
Another was told she would be put down like a dog.
And those are examples of some of the less hateful attacks.
The Wade and Meyer conflict would grow over time and would eventually turn into a lawsuit.
Meyer had crowdfunded a comics project called Jawbreakers and was to have it published by
Antarctic Press when Wade shared some unflattering information about him and Antarctic Press
was quick to cancel their agreement.
But more importantly than the two white guys snapping at each other are the marginalized
voices who don't have the privilege of this large platform to air some of their grievances
as highlighted by Wade in his Facebook post.
This harassment is something fomented by the comicsgate crowd, going insofar as to make
blacklists and targeting comic shops that disagreed with their mission.
Before Antarctic Press ended their relationship with Meyer, a number of comic shops publicly
stated that they would not carry his title.
In response, he asked his sizable audience to find out where these stores were and create
a list.
At least one of these stores was the target of vandalism, variant edition comics in Edmonton,
Alberta.
We push positivity, we push inclusion, we push diversity.
That's why she decided to take a public stance on an issue that's dividing the comic book
world, electing not to stock an upcoming book by an author known for opposing what
he calls forced diversity in comics.
I don't know what he wants, but I feel like he just, if he wants anything, it's destruction
and regression.
The store's tweet blew up with responses from supporters and critics.
The author, Richard Meyer, even made a video response on his YouTube channel.
Variant edition in Edmonton, Canada.
They're doing multiple steps of an intimidation and blogging campaign.
I see it as a statement of, as we can get to you.
LeBlanc has nothing to go on but a gut feeling, but she's sure the crime isn't a coincidence.
For this to be a random attack at the same time as we're being press online, what else
could it be?
Another well-publicized incident occurred in late August of 2018.
Marcia, widow of beloved and extremely talented comic artist Darwin Cook, was targeted on
social media after she made a tweet about how her late husband would have absolutely
opposed the opinions and actions of the Comics Gate crowd.
The backlash against her was as predictable as it was depressing.
She had an exchange with Ethan Van Scryver that is well worth reading in its entirety.
Marcia is responding to a video in which comics artist Billy Tucci mistakenly says that Darwin
Cook would be a supporter of Comics Gate.
Hi guys, I'm right here.
And Ethan, it looks like your friends are being transphobic.
I'm sure you wouldn't support anything like that, would you?
You certainly would ask your friends to stop bringing my name up, right?
Because I haven't seen that yet.
I've been pretty happy to mute people who are harassing me on Twitter, Martha.
Or block them.
People who use my name spitefully, who lie about me, and torment me and my family over
political differences.
It goes a long way towards peace of mind.
Just mute them.
I find what goes a long way is for the ringleader to use his dog whistle to call his baby's
home.
But sure, these children are whipped up by you and it's pathetic you can't say leave
her alone to them.
Cowards, all of you.
What do you really think Darwin could do right now, Ethan?
Tell the widow to use mute or stand up to a bunch of idiots?
I know the answer.
The comics industry has become incredibly cruel, Marcia, and I don't wish you to endure
the abuse that I have over the past few months.
But I've learned quite a bit about how the internet works and how mobs are manipulated
and weaponized into endless conflict, and this isn't okay.
Ethan, I know you have felt isolated from the general industry, but you need to know
it is because most people feel you are stoking a dangerous group of fans that hate women,
people of color, and all the gay community.
That's not okay, and Darwin will not be associated with it.
They're wrong, and Darwin was also an individualist who trusted his own instincts, even when the
crowd wanted other things for him.
I'm never going to watch this or any other comicscape video.
Sorry.
I have no interest in your group and wish you personally the best in life.
I hope you snap out of this cult hypnosis at some point.
Well, I'll settle for that.
I miss you and this broke my heart, and I want you to know I think about you both often.
Please know you are loved.
Just so you know, your fans are all up on me about this and calling me trash, garbage,
and a liar, so any time you'd like to tell them to back off is great.
Darwin agreed with you on nothing and you know this.
James, I'm blocking this dude.
Tell him to apologize to Nassar.
Are you going to tell anyone to apologize to me?
Yes, SJW's in comics apologized to Marcia Cook for cynically using her as a shield to
attack comicsgate and for lying to her.
It was Darwin's dear friend Billy who claimed him for comicsgate, and I am disgusted by
this whole affair.
This wasn't fair to you or Darwin, Marcia.
Yeah, don't throw Billy under the bus here.
Billy doesn't know what your group does and was kind enough to give you five seconds of
his time.
Billy's friends are quote tweeting him and saying, Darr offered himself.
Yours are.
Billy may be a conservative, but he's nothing like you.
And this is Billy Tucci, another artist who chimes in.
I apologize for any misconception that I claimed my dear friend Darr for any cause.
Twitter is a vicious home for those who'd never confront you in person.
You all know where I stand with friends both left and right.
Hopefully soon we'll all stand in the arena of civility.
It was not a good moment for Van Scryver, particularly when he asked the SJWs to apologize
after Marcia was quite clear it was his fanbase that was harassing her.
A number of prominent industry pros came to Martha's defense, and a mantra penned by
writer Tom Taylor on Twitter a few days later was soon reposted by a number of other comics
professionals.
This was the first major anti-comicsgate display from professionals in the industry.
But again, and I feel as though I can't hit this note enough, this was a comicsgate attack
that got attention after it hit these creators close to home.
In this case, Martha herself can make the point better than I can.
Hopefully this is my last comment on the subject, but I agree with everyone saying it is annoying
that people didn't get on board the reality of what these idiots are doing until it was
a white wife attacked.
I don't think as many people would care WTF happened here, except that they were thinking
of me as an extension of a man.
So take that how you will.
While researching this video, I came across an interesting article from 2014 on ICV2 by
Rob Selkowitz titled, If comicsgate ever happens, it will be catastrophic.
It was responding to an article about gamergate by Ezra Klein, discussing how the politicization
of everything is bleeding into our hobbies.
In his article, Selkowitz highlights the dangers of longtime fans becoming self-appointed gatekeepers
to a hobby, denying entry of diverse newcomers into their space.
The danger perceived to them is the undermining of their authority in this space.
They call themselves the real or true fans of something, and anyone not adhering to this
vision is an outsider trying to destroy something closely tied to their identity.
Selkowitz goes on to point out how this sentiment has existed for a while.
Comicsgate could do the same, leaving a lasting harm to comics.
It's an interesting article and quite perceptive, though to me this fear of politicizing comics
is not a problem for the medium itself, but rather the relationship fans have with it.
Politics have long been a part of comics, and broadening the representation of different
people into comics will only increase that, at least if it happens in a society that functions
like ours does.
Here are two examples of political stories.
The character Northstar of the X-Men, one of the first openly gay characters in superhero
comics, was married in 2012.
It was the first ever gay wedding in superhero comics.
Conversely in 2013, DC Comics refused the Batwoman creative team to let their lead character
marry her female partner, Maggie Sawyer.
J.H. Williams III and W. Holden Blackman, in response, announced that they would be
leaving as the editorial team on Batwoman.
Although these would have simply been weddings in these characters' lives, the editorial
decision, one way or another, could easily be considered political.
One decision favored left-wing politics, the other right-wing politics.
When a character's wedding is considered inherently political because of their sexual
orientation, this doesn't say we're politicizing comics, but rather we live in a time when
gay marriage, and by extension someone's sexuality, is a political question.
The pattern holds true for many other types of minority representation, where characters
of color are expected to not comment on race issues, and female characters are expected
to stay silent about feminism, and especially not wear a t-shirt about it.
Wanting representation in comic books doesn't have to be an inherently political thing.
It can be as simple as some kids wanting to see a superhero who looks just like them.
It's only political when someone says it shouldn't be happening.
Ironically, their shallow understanding of comics should make the comicsgate crowd more
understanding of where these young readers are coming from.
The fact that some grown white men can't manage to read comics featuring non-white male characters
says so much more.
And if the idea of superheroes being used as a lens for slightly older readers to examine
modern-day issues from a different perspective, I'm not sure why that's inherently a bad
thing.
Obviously, it could be bad when it's done poorly, but again, I go back to a point I
made earlier in this video.
Why focus on the diversity and not, say, bad writing or bad art?
Perhaps they should be asking themselves some serious questions about diversity itself,
and why is it they get annoyed or angry whenever it's mentioned in a storyline?
The comicsgate crowd's problem isn't just its embarrassingly shallow reading of comics.
It's the hostility that foments the outright harassment of creators who are members of
the LGBT community, people of color, and women.
This is a line that is frequently crossed, often hidden from sight, that becomes part
of the daily churn of artists trying to express themselves in a medium that has been historically
dominated by white men.
It's not that white men have to be shitty to them.
It's that a portion of them are, and they refuse to behave like adults.
On the bright side, recent news on comicsgate is that it's over.
Meyer is declaring mission accomplished, and the industry has supposedly been saved from
being taken over by the SJWs.
Is comicsgate successful or unsuccessful?
I don't know.
Is customer service better or worse?
Are the comics better or worse than they were a year ago?
It seems to me the comics are better, and I'm sure there are multiple factors, but
I would say it is partly successful to the beliefs of people who liked comicsgate.
Whether comicsgate needs to go on, I don't think so.
The claims of victory and departure ring hollow to me, but it does signal that this unifying
hashtag is falling out of fashion.
In a way, this video could almost be considered a post-mortem.
But I hope if there's one thing people take away from this, is that while this childish
abusive behavior can be focused around a hashtag, even after that hashtag goes away, the problem
still exists.
Before leaving though, I want to leave us all with a few words from comics legend Stan Lee.
Although he has a checkered past, specifically in how he treated some of the artists he worked
with in Marvel's early days, he did leave us with a lovely short message before he passed
away on his thoughts about diversity in the comics industry.
Hi, heroes.
This is Stan Lee coming at you.
I just want you to know, Marvel has always been and always will be a reflection of the
world right outside our window.
That world may change and evolve, but the one thing that will never change is the way
we tell our stories of heroism.
Those stories have room for everyone, regardless of their race, gender, religion, or color
of their skin.
The only things we don't have room for are hatred, intolerance, and bigotry.
That man next to you, he's your brother.
That woman over there, she's your sister.
And that kid walking by, hey, who knows?
He may have the proportionate strength of a spider.
We're all part of one big family, the human family, and we all come together in the body
of Marvel.
And you, you're part of that family.
You're part of the Marvel universe that moves ever upward and onward to greater glory.
In other words, Excelsior.
A big thanks to Mexie for helping me out.
I'm so sorry I asked you to read something so terrible.
To everyone else, if you enjoyed this video, why not click that like button, maybe leave
a comment, and if you really enjoyed it, why not subscribe?
You can also follow me on Twitter or send me questions on Curious Cat.
