Today we're talking about dinosaurs.
Set 60 million years in the past, though only premiering in 1991,
Dinosaurs takes us back to a time when dinosaurs ruled the world,
and it looks a lot like how we humans rule the world.
Working a dead-end job, managing a household, and going to school in this thing we like to call a society.
Most notably for its striking use of full-body puppets,
this series was a hit when it arrived and then vanished quickly, lasting the scant four seasons.
The look of these puppets should be familiar to anyone at all aware of the work of Jim Henson,
famed puppeteer who created the Muppets and the residents of Sesame Street.
The show was created by his studio, Jim Henson Productions,
and was one of the last projects Henson would provide creative input on.
The idea for Dinosaurs traces back to a conversation between Jim Henson and Kirk Thatcher in the 1980s.
He had the idea of a family of dinosaurs and that they live very irresponsibly and bigger than life and everything's reckless.
The clumsy dinosaur lumbering through the world is thought to be an evolution of an idea Jim Henson had back in the 1960s,
the Le Choy Dragon, designed for a series of commercials for chow mein.
Although dinosaurs would be a bit more evolved than this ad spot.
Sadly, before the show could begin production in earnest, Jim Henson passed away.
Jim Henson Productions was placed under the care of Jim's son, Brian.
The duty of creating the series fell to Michael Jacobs and Bob Young.
It would be these three men who would bring the show Dinosaurs to life.
Dinosaurs would be one of the most ambitious projects taken on by Jim Henson Productions,
a weekly sitcom using detailed puppets and animatronics,
far more costly than the standard human fountains you would find on television sitcoms.
Much of the technology for the puppets was taken from the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie,
which similarly used animatronic heads on top of people wearing suits.
While that was a feature film, a TV sitcom didn't quite have the same budget for effects.
Even a pilot technically would have been too costly.
The only reason this show got off the ground is because ABC initially ordered 13 episodes.
One of the recurring comments I noticed in a lot of people involved in the production was
general amazement that they were able to pull this off.
The concept for the show would be as ambitious as the puppetry.
Brian Henson described it saying,
which was the gem of the idea.
That was my dad's idea before he died.
The dinosaurs were always meant to be a metaphor for human beings,
and the dinosaur aesthetic made it easier to tell stories that would have been tougher with a human cast.
You could attack issues much better when the characters are not quite human.
The underlying intent was to create a series that would provide a satirical look at the modern world,
one that still feels very relevant today.
In an interview with co-creator Michael Jacobs, he describes it saying,
we're trying both to show how humans would have looked to another species
and to make people see themselves in the dinosaurs.
We go around as if we're kings of the earth, but who knows how much time we have left?
A contemporary article from the New York Times described the show as,
the Flintstones meet the Simpsons.
Though neither of those comparisons quite fit.
Although both were primetime animated TV shows and both made commentaries on modern life at the time,
dinosaurs would chart its own path,
telling large stories about the precarious origin of traditions and social norms.
The Sinclair family was headed up by its patriarch, Earl, the mighty Megalosaurus,
as he likes to call himself, much to the eye-rolls of his loved ones.
A not-so-bright middle-aged dinosaur in a dead-end job,
Earl was the classic sitcom lead, a father at the head of his family.
Voiced by Stuart Penkin, Earl was also brought to life by the puppeteers Mac Wilson,
operating the face, and Bill Beretta moving his body.
You're really better off being rid of your family.
Yeah?
Sure, family's one of civilization's worst ideas.
Fran Sinclair is exactly what you'd imagine from the classic TV sitcom, Mom,
complete with the Allosaurus updo.
She keeps the household running as a housewife,
though she does get a chance to break free from the confines of the Sinclair house once in a while.
Alan Troutman moves her face, Tony Savin prints her body,
while her voice is provided by the extremely talented Jessica Walter.
But Tyrannosaurus Rex is king of the dinosaurs.
That's debatable.
No, it's not. I dated one in high school.
Robbie Sinclair, a hypsilifadon, is the often rebellious teenage boy of the family.
Always sporting his Letterman jacket, which is a helpful reminder that he's still in high school,
he still has a sense of optimism about changing the dinosaur society his parents have resigned themselves to.
Steve Whitmire controlled his face, leaf-tilled in his body, and Jason Willinger provided his voice.
If this is the year 60 million in three, why is next year 60 million in two?
Why are we counting backwards? What are we waiting for?
Uh, uh, Fanny?
Maybe you ask too many questions?
Ah.
School is not for asking questions. It's a place you go to be out of this house.
Charlene Sinclair, a protoceratops, is the middle child, aged only 12 at the beginning of the series.
Obviously fashion-forward, Charlene struggles with her blossoming womanhood,
with her signature catchphrase of,
Bruce Lanoyle moved her face,
McLint Sisty her body, and Sally Struthers provided her voice.
The last number of the Sinclair family is its youngest member,
a megalosaurus simply named Baby.
Baby's arms were controlled by Terry Hardin and Julianne Boucher,
but his facial movements and voice are credited to Kevin Clash,
who had plenty of experience with puppetry on his Elmo on Sesame Street.
Undoubtedly the breakout star of the cast, he had a number of popular catchphrases.
The cast was rounded out by a number of occurring characters, such as Earl's boss, B.P. Richfield,
brilliantly voiced by Sherman Hemsley,
Fran's mother Ethel, voiced by Florence Stanley,
Earl's buddy Roy, voiced by Sam McMurray,
Fran's friend Monica, voiced by Susie Plaxson,
and Robbie's friend Spike, voiced by Christopher Maloney.
You probably noticed the diversity in the Sinclair household,
with each family member coming from a different species aside from Earl and Baby,
who were both megalosauruses.
This was done because the idea of the dinosaurs being the same species was thought to be visually boring,
so they were switched up to make them more engaging.
This colorful cast would have some surprisingly thoughtful critiques of modern society,
but it got there on the strength of a frying pan.
The series opens with the episode,
The Mighty Megalosaurus, premiered on April 26, 1991 on ABC.
The first thing we see in the series is a news broadcaster
who later learned is named Howard Henn of Me.
The show was always intended to end with the extinction of the dinosaurs,
and this is a little foreshadowing for us.
The show also frames its premise for us like this.
Expanding on that premise, we see some very modern perspectives on what it means to be a working dinosaur
when Earl asks for a raise from his boss.
In addition to the soul-crushing reality of blue-collar work,
the show also establishes its ecological concerns
by highlighting how Earl's job of tree pusher is impacting the environment.
The big lesson Earl learns in this episode is that,
even if he can't be a big shot out there in the dinosaur world,
he's at least the king of his own home.
This sets up one of the themes I really want to dig into in this series,
and it's how relentlessly it criticizes the idea of unjust hierarchies.
This is echoed in how Earl is subservient to his boss at work,
how Earl keeps his family under his thumb,
and how dinosaur society asserts the environment under its dominance.
The idea that what makes life worthwhile is having someone or something to be superior to
is ultimately self-destructive to dinosaur society.
Something subtly suggested in those opening moments,
and reinforced in the final moments of the episode,
where Earl watches some dumb humans in the yard and has a nice little ironic monologue.
You might be wondering how a show about dinosaur puppets would even get away with tackling such heavy subjects,
but the first episode also includes an answer to that when it introduces us to Baby Sinclair.
Baby's popularity is what gave the show the cover to tell the stories it wanted to.
The series co-creator Michael Jacobs explains how such weighty social commentary made its way into the show.
ABC wanted us to take shots at these subjects because it made a lot of noise and got people talking.
After the initial success of the show, they pretty much left us alone,
especially after the baby became a hit.
As long as the baby hit his father over the head with a pod, we could use that to hide anything.
There are a handful of episodes that exemplify this so well,
opening with a bit of baby-themed slapstick,
and then turning it into a discussion about the power dynamics of religion or corporations.
Which seems as good a place as any to start.
There are many customs which the sacred book of dinosaur commands us to obey.
Traditions are a major part of dinosaur society,
and many of the traditions we see in the show are either from the ancient past or thought up in the present day.
But one consistent aspect to them is how completely arbitrary they are.
For instance, hurling day is a tradition where, on a dinosaur's 72nd birthday,
they get thrown into a tar pit so they don't slow down the other dinosaurs in the pack.
It was randomly thought up one day by an elder many years ago,
and it manifests itself in modern dinosaur society because of this little bit that got thrown in at the end.
Earl and his mother-in-law, Ethel, don't have the best relationship.
This episode lets us look at what really drives traditions, an unthinking obedience,
and in Earl's case, a chance to feel as if he has a high status in society.
The fact that Earl's status and personal joy are derived from this tradition
speaks to how self-interested power perpetuates these traditions.
The show's perspective on traditions is more nuanced, though, than calling them all dumb.
In The Howling, we learn of a tradition where male dinosaurs howl on top of a mountain when they turn 15.
Only Robbie's meek howl is making him feel insecure about it.
Much like Curling Day, The Howling is another sacred tradition, and once again we see Robbie questioning it.
In the previous episode, Robbie was trying to save his grandmother's life,
but in this one, it's his pride on the line.
He spends some time reading the dinosaur's sacred text.
And when Robbie speaks to Earl about what he believes, he starts to understand it a bit more.
Unlike the previous episode, this one seems to uphold traditions as something valuable for the dinosaur society.
But it's not for any mystical reason. It's because of the cultural significance of the ritual.
It highlights the importance of these practices to help seal friendships and community.
They can create friction, as the episode also included a fight between Earl and his buddy Roy,
a fight that was resolved when Robbie helped conduct the ritual and read some passages from the sacred text.
The distinction this show makes about traditions is that while some establish a hierarchy of one dinosaur over another,
such as throwing your mother-in-law into a tar pit, the other builds community,
the howling ceremony that lets friends and family celebrate a rite of passage together.
Although I should mention, only male dinosaurs go through it.
Even though Charlene has a great howl, it's boy dinosaurs who do the howling.
Dinosaur traditions never cleanly map onto human ones.
So all these stories have to be understood as allegories.
And Resistance to traditions and old ways of being are also presented in a handy allegory in the episode titled,
I Never Ate For My Father.
Being a herbivore is a very rich metaphor, most often read as an allegory for Robbie being gay,
but that's selling this episode short, as it's about defiance and independence more broadly.
For example, there's a bit of red scare rhetoric, including an allusion to Joseph McCarthy questioning people about being secret communists.
We also get a nod to drug culture as vegetables being presented as narcotics.
We get a nod to hippie culture with herbivores hanging out in this very hippie-like bar.
The episode is just bursting with allusions to radical politics.
The episode ends with Earl and Robbie being eaten by a larger creature,
and we get a nice little line that sums up the conflict between these two that runs through the entire series.
Eventually, Earl and Robbie reach an understanding.
Oh, and the creature that ate them coughs them up because their sappy family moment makes him hurl.
Traditions, authority, and learning from the past are summed up very nicely in this episode.
All the issues alluded to in this episode can be broadly understood as progressive changes to society.
Robbie is the youthful voice of change, Earl is the conservative establishment reaction to that change.
It takes a lot to convince Earl that he needs to let his son live his own life,
but ultimately he remembers that he wants his son to have a better life than he did.
Or at the very least, a life his son can call his own.
The problem isn't traditions in dinosaur society, but an unthinking obedience to them,
being unable to get rid of the harmful ones and resisting improvements to ones that could make the world a better place.
Not all traditions are passed down from old stories, though.
Some are newly created ones based on the whims of a group of dinosaur elders led by the chief elder.
The presentation of this governing body shifts between a cloaked group of mystics to modern day politicians
whenever the story seems to need them to, though one constant is that they are the ones in charge of dinosaur society, kind of.
One great example of the elders demonstrating their authority is in the episode titled
The Greatest Story Ever Told, where they create a religion for dinosaur society.
It all begins when a very heavy question is raised.
This is the first time anyone has ever asked that question in dinosaur culture, and it spreads through the community like wildfire.
With society screeching to a halt, the elders take action and decide to come up with an answer.
And since this answer needs to satisfy the dumbest of dinosaurs, Earl is brought in as a judge.
There's one dinosaur guru who presents a rather nice-sounding belief system that doesn't get picked up because Earl is underwhelmed by it.
For only through good works and sacrifice can we find peace and a sense of purpose, and finally come to know why we've been given this blessed gift of life.
That's beautiful.
Oh yes, truly a guide to life.
Too much work.
Doesn't have a hat.
Yeah.
Here's the answer they landed on.
A giant magic flying potato swoops down, makes a few magical gestures, bing bang boom, universe.
Are you talking about a baked potato?
Look, look, the idiot's buying it.
I think we may be on to something here.
With an omnipotent potato seated as their new god, some easy answers are offered and society is placated.
Mostly.
Once again, Robbie has some questions.
Good afternoon, citizens.
Hail the potato.
Hail.
Hail.
Son, we understand you're finding the transition to potatoism fraught with difficulty.
It can be an anxious and puzzling time.
We're here to help.
Earl is arrested alongside Robbie, and they're soon to be burned at the stake, but a wind arrives and saves their lives.
Ah, well, ah, it's, ah, it's not for us to try to understand the mysterious ways of the potato.
Ah, for, ah, for its plan is beyond the can of mere mortals.
You're making this up!
And everyone is offered the freedom to believe whatever they want.
We all need answers, but we can't make the mistake of accepting the first answer that's handed to us just because it's there.
Everyone must be allowed to believe what they want to believe.
Ah, you know, I always sort of believed that the universe was coughed up by the great congested warthog.
That's interesting, and you're entitled to that belief.
Ganding is actually kind of beautiful.
Dad, what do you think the stars caught fire?
I've never thought about it before, son.
But now I think I will.
It really exemplifies how unanswerable questions lead us to answers that aren't necessarily good, but at least satisfy that desire to know.
This is one of the most skating anti-religion episodes I've ever seen on a sitcom from the 1990s.
It not only presents it all as a farce, but highlights how the elders want to use religion to distract the masses so they don't start asking tough questions, all in an effort to protect the economy.
Because of the vexing and unwelcome questions of this small child, the economy is ruined!
The government is on the verge of collapse, and chaos reigns in the streets.
Say you're sorry.
I'm sorry!
What? We're outta here!
I really can't imagine an episode like this being done with human beings, at least not back in the 1990s.
Aside from that one dinosaur, there are no positive representations of religion in this episode.
Even with the relatively soft ending, giving some credence to the idea of religious pluralism, this presents a spiritual life as an arbitrary one, more likely used as a tool to control the masses and keep the money flowing.
But the political analogy of the elders is really laid bare in the series' only two-parter titled, Nuts to War, where the dinosaur society we're familiar with, made up almost entirely of two-legged dinosaurs, are going to war with an unseen nation of other dinosaurs, who are four-legged.
And the reason they're going to war… well, it's this.
We interrupt our regular programming to bring you this DNN special report. Pistachios, why aren't there any to be found?
This episode is presented with a lot of melodramatic flair, and this is a reference to a miniseries from 1983 titled, The Winds of War, which was about World War II.
This two-parter highlights the first ever war for dinosaur society, with war being an acronym presented by the Elder-in-Chief.
It's a complex issue, but luckily can be boiled down to a simple slogan.
And since this is dinosaurs, it lays on some heavy social commentary.
Aside from how politicians use war, another nice touch of this two-parter is how wars commercialize, presented as yet another product to be sold on television.
After all, wars are a great way to make some money.
This two-parter is so densely packed with commentary it's hard to keep up, from Fran's friend Monica being the target of anti-four-legger bigotry,
to Earl finding out his tree-pushing job is being used to make weapons for the war, and saddest of all, we find out after Robbie is sent to war, he comes back a changed dinosaur.
That ending went right for the jugular, showing us how Robbie has been changed by the war.
Sure, he survived it in one piece, but he's been made more brutal psychologically, and he reflects a society that has been taught to hate a supposed enemy.
Warfare is depicted softly in this two-parter, mostly being a case of snarling and spitting, with only a single fatality being reported.
But this two-parter speaks more broadly about the horrors of war.
Most war media focuses on the violent traumas, and while I certainly wouldn't downplay those, they're only a part of how war can impact a society.
War in this show operates on a system that sends dinosaurs off to be killed in the name of profit, while shaping a society to see dinosaurs on the other side as beneath them for looking a little different.
Think about what wartime propaganda looked like during World War II, all the racist imagery used to dehumanize those on the other side, and while some of that might reflect prejudices of the day, war seems to give extra permission for some of the ugliest sentiments to come out, and it's not like this kind of thing fades over time.
This is presented very handily by dinosaurs later on in an episode titled Green Card, which a bad economy is blamed on four-legged dinosaurs.
The two-legged dinosaurs decide to build a wall to keep the four-legged dinosaurs out, which should sound familiar.
One thing that's noticeable is how Earl, who's always disliked friend's friend Monica, has gone from hating her for being a strong, independent woman, to hating her because she has four legs.
It shows how dislike for a specific dinosaur can be generalized into bigotry to a whole species, and it's not a coincidence that four-legged dinosaurs were once again painted as the problem by the elders, who are, by the way, shown to be once more working at the behest of big businesses.
The legacy of wartime lives on, not just as messaging that leaves an impact, but as a tactic used by those with power in society to present a scapegoat for their failures.
Doesn't it seem like this running out of trees thing is something a company might have anticipated?
Yeah, yeah, you know the company should have planned ahead.
Shh!
It sounds to me like it's high time that the government stepped in and started to regulate these big companies.
Whoa! How dare you blame the company you mewling pack of ingrates! It's not the company's fault! It's never the company's fault! Take a look at this!
The Journal of Economic Finger-Pointing.
Published quarterly by the government! It clearly states that all our current economic troubles are traceable to one source! Four-leggers!
There's a subplot in the nuts-to-war two-parter where the baby fights a small animal called the cookie creature who steals cookies from baby.
He's all set to kill it, but he learns empathy for it when he sees that the cookie creature has a family.
It's a nice counterpoint to the main story, showing that learning to understand your enemies as living creatures, as worthy of life as you are, instead of trying to destroy them.
Sadly, we see little of this in the broader dinosaur world, which shows how broken the society is.
One more episode that discusses the impact of traditions I want to talk about is Charlene's Flat World.
In it, Charlene is hit with a flash of inspiration and gives a science class presentation about the Earth being round.
While this looks like it's going to be another examination of the deep cynicism that pervades this world and series, we instead get something a bit more upbeat.
First, Charlene gives a rousing defense of free expression.
And then Charlene uses her wits to save her own life.
You are hereby condemned to death.
Your Honor, may I be allowed to choose the method of execution?
Of course. Never forget this is your legal system.
It is now time to carry out the sentence of the court. Charlene and Robertson Claire, you are hereby condemned, as was requested, to be put to death by being thrown off the edge of our flat world into the great void beyond.
Charlene proves her intelligence, fighting, and winning against the system.
In little acts of rebellion like these and the earlier ones with Robbie and Baby, we get a sense that the kids have a shot at making the world a better place, even though at the moment the deck is dramatically stacked against them.
Although this note is only lightly hit throughout the series, and sometimes seems like an excuse to tag on happy ending most sitcoms require, it does offer a kind of hope that the series sometimes desperately needs.
If the whole run was just a series of episodes about how horrible the world is, and the powers that be are only making it worse, it might be a bit too emotionally taxing.
As you might have noticed in some of these clips, certain dinosaur outfits are used multiple times for a variety of characters.
Considering the cost of making them, the show couldn't afford unique dinosaurs for each episode, so while the principal cast remains unique, we see a handful of one-off characters using the same outfits over and over, sometimes more than once in the same episode.
And as sturdy as these dinosaurs look, they were actually incredibly fragile.
Because of the materials that were used, the puppets started falling apart very quickly, and none of them would last more than five or six years, before becoming completely unusable.
While the show didn't last that long, it does mean that none of the original puppets have survived.
The complexity of these puppets are also why three people were required to bring each dinosaur to life.
One person moving the body, the other controlling the head, and one more giving it a voice.
It's pretty impressive that each one of these characters was the product of three talented performers working together to create them, and so many more when it came to building and designing them.
The cost of this series is supposedly a big reason why it only lasted a mere four seasons.
Building new dinosaurs doesn't get much cheaper over time when it's done with such specialized technology, and so many performers meant that many more paychecks had to be signed.
Still, the results are impressive and create an effect that still looks great 30 years later.
Male and female dinosaurs are constantly trying to figure out how to live with one another in dinosaur society, and it's here the analogies probably hit home the easiest.
Outside of the family dynamic, we can see the rules of male and female dinosaurs more clearly, such as the episode where one of the world's coworkers tells a joke about friend's friend Monica, who has only recently become a tree pusher.
The friend's name is Al Harris, and his nickname is Sexual.
The title of the episode is What Sexual Harris Meant.
Not all the jokes can be winners here, folks.
Although Monica has no real dream of being a tree pusher, she decides to fight for this job against hostile work conditions as a role model to young dinosaurs like Charlene.
A hearing takes place very evocative of the Anita Hill hearings that were in the news the same year this episode aired.
Those hearings having been a major event when it comes to workplace sexual harassment as Anita Hill was testifying against Clarence Thomas, a current justice on the Supreme Court for sexually harassing her.
In the dinosaurs hearing, Al is pretty open about what he did.
While Monica gets a nice tail whip as payback, it's not quite the same as being able to work without being sexually harassed.
And even though Charlene is inspired to demand better for herself, the show ends on a bitter note.
In another episode, Fran Live, Fran gets a job hosting a TV advice show. Her advice is pretty solid.
But this show has unintended consequences, such as wives getting ideas about jobs.
Especially Fran quits the show, but also gives up just being a housewife.
The episodes about feminism and women finding a place in the workforce are a strange mix of being relevant to the modern day, while also feeling incredibly dated.
The type of sexual harassment Monica faced, while not so comically overt and obvious in the real world, still has a ring of truth in light of the recent Me Too movement.
On the other hand, Fran having to fight to get a job speaks to an earlier time when families could survive on a single working class income.
These days, a dual income household seems more like a necessity than a strike against the patriarchy.
In Honey I Miss the Kids, Fran decides to start working, leaving Earl to pick up some slack at home, changing his shifts at work so he can be at home with the kids during the day.
An unhappy Earl decides to be a super dad to make his wife jealous, so she'll give up the job to return back home.
Plan backfires twice.
First, Fran likes seeing Earl do more parenting, and second, Earl finds out he actually enjoys it too.
And when Fran cuts back on her hours so Earl doesn't spend so much time at home, it's bittersweet watching him leave his family to return to his usual work schedule.
This show, for all its cynicism about the world, could be surprisingly touching when it wanted to, and episodes like this one felt essential when watching the series as a whole.
They're a gentle reminder of how family life can be a real challenge, but the rewards are very real, and that the people within a family are the ones that are in the best position to decide what they look like, not archaic gender roles that tell a father his place in society is at work away from his children.
One example of the show being ahead of the curve compared to sitcoms of the day was its take on the very special episode about drugs, in the episode titled, A New Leaf.
The episode unfolds mostly the way it would on other shows with Robbie being corrupted by a kid at school and wasting his time getting high.
It gets a little different by the end where the entire family starts eating this mysterious plant and their lives fall apart.
On the whole, the episode is formulaic and a bit boring, but it manages to completely shine through its brilliance in the final moments.
This episode serves as a nice reminder that these kinds of very special episodes have become completely formulaic and stale, and if a message is so important, wrapping it up in something so uninteresting will only hurt it.
Ironically, that makes this anti-drug message far more memorable than the ones that came after the end of all those other sitcoms where the cast earnestly speaks to the audience at the end. Comedy is just more convincing than sincerity sometimes.
Personification is persistent throughout the series. The only creatures that don't act like people, ironically, are the humans. They're presented as voiceless animals, making noises, and usually not a whole lot more than that.
There is one exception to the grunting animals pattern, though, and that's in the episode titled, The Discovery, where Earl goes golfing, stumbles through some bushes, and binds an entire, undiscovered continent.
In truly human fashion, Earl does a bit of colonialism.
I hereby claim this land in the name of Earl Sneed Sinclair.
Earl brands the cave people as savages, and teams up with the We Say So Corporation to, uh, wow.
Earl is no Columbus, though, and upon learning that these people have a rich culture of their own, which he learns from a dinosaur interpreter, he gives up the claim to the land. Earl also doesn't want to pay 11 million dollars in taxes.
I guess this belongs to you.
We remember Earl.
And then the government tricks the humans and takes their land.
The episode has a few awkward elements, if it's going to be an analogy to colonialism, though. Importantly, in the real world, indigenous people and colonizers are all human beings, unlike dinosaurs and humans, which aren't close to the same species at all, and one is clearly more advanced than the other.
It could be read as offensive, but I'm not sure it's coherent enough for that. What weighs more on my mind is that this idea for this episode just wasn't considered in the overall context of the series.
As I mentioned earlier, the humans were generally portrayed on the show as empty-headed brutes. If they're capable of building a society, is it really okay for Charlene in another episode to take in some human children to perform in a circus act?
Humans are given special treatment on the show by virtue of missing the human characteristics the dinosaurs have. So the colonialism analogy is an irony that doesn't quite work since the two sides, aside from this one episode, have no real overlap.
In the real world, colonialism was preceded by two cultures from the same species coming into contact.
In dinosaurs, colonialism is preceded by two distinct species with their own unique cultures coming into contact. Only humans are well known to dinosaurs at this point, and within dinosaur society, are more or less just animals.
If this were really translated in the real world, it would be like finding a civilization entirely populated by dogs. Would that still be colonialism? I'm not so sure.
So while I'm amazed that a 90s sitcom decided to do an episode about colonialism at all, it doesn't quite come together as well as it could have if the victims had been, perhaps, other dinosaurs.
Another interesting use of humans is how the series frames its clip shows. A staple of sitcoms from years past, these collections of moments from previous episodes usually force the cast into a confined space where they reminisce about older episodes offering the chance to play highlights of classic moments.
In dinosaurs, we see an archaeologist named Sir David Tushingham describe the majesty of the dinosaurs, setting up clips in a fun way.
As we try to debunk the myths, strip away the illusions, and lipo suck the fatty misconceptions from the thighs of history.
Humans were also the subject of the only spin-off the series had, a series titled First Family, also known as The Oog Show, about a caveman family. A pilot was produced, but it never got further than that.
The presence of humans in the series is tertiary to how the series presents its main themes. Regardless of any humans in the series, it's the dinosaurs we care about, and that's one of the great ironies of the show. We're the same as the dinosaurs.
One day in the future, humans will go extinct too, but we laugh at the dinosaurs as if they aren't us. But the only things that make them funny or relatable are the things that we can see in ourselves.
You probably couldn't make a sitcom about dinosaurs running around eating plants or each other. You need to make them human-like so we can understand them. And once you make them like us, you create a weird space that makes certain criticisms about human society more palatable.
Part of our minds are allowed the freedom to pretend that they're somehow inherently different, which also allows commentary that might seem more awkward or challenging, easier to digest.
What makes dinosaurs different, like all the threats of physical violence, are a fun distraction but ultimately aren't what we care about as the audience. That's just stage dressing. The human stories are what resonates with us, and the series delves deep into the challenges of modern society in ways unusual for a sitcom at the time.
Dinosaurs provided a lot of commentary on the absurdities of surviving in the modern world, an exploitative nature of the class system, and it managed to do this without turning into a lecture about socialism. Although it had one of those in an episode too.
Okay, that's enough of that. Earl works for the charmingly named We Say So Corporation, embodied by his cantankerous boss BP Richfield. But before discussing this, I just want to point out how Sherman Hemsley absolutely nails the character of BP Richfield.
In sitcoms, particularly older ones, bosses are presented as scary or insincere friends. The subtext is that these are people who can ruin your life.
In Richfield's case, he's also a boss that might eat you. If the initials BP remind you of an oil spill in 2010, that's not a coincidence. The names Sinclair, BP, Richfield, and Hess were chosen because they belong to fossil fuel companies. It's a small joke, dinosaurs are literally fossils, that takes on a greater meaning when you consider that dinosaurs are ultimately responsible for the end of their civilization, much like fossil fuels could help end ours.
The influence of corporations can be felt throughout the series, not just in the lives of the dinosaurs who cower beneath them, but the environment itself is often at their mercy.
A response to the environmental neglect of the We Say So Corporation comes from nature when it describes how life is all connected through the environment in the episode, If I Were a Tree, where Ethel is reading a story to the baby about a dinosaur, much like Earl, that's turned into a tree.
And the tree lives inside of Earl.
In both cases, dinosaurs learn more about nature and all it can offer them. The tree ends up sacrificing itself to save Earl.
Earl is too clueless to realize what's wrong and while this might not be satisfying from a certain perspective, the show helpfully shows us a more useful way of reading it.
I honestly wish this way of reading media were more common. While following a character on their journey can feel rewarding, sometimes it's important to learn the lessons the characters don't, and it's especially important to show such as dinosaurs, where there are some lessons characters will never really learn, or will only learn too late.
The episode opens up with news of the Bunch Beetles returning on their annual migration, where they eat the cider poppies that grow up across Pangea and mate to create a new generation of Bunch Beetles, only this time they don't show up.
The Sinclair family happens to meet the last Bunch Beetle, who reveals that the swamp that was their mating ground is now a factory, making the very symbolic product of wax fruit.
We say so, Corporation is behind this factory and the source of this problem. Earl puts his faith in technology being able to turn things around, though the solution is to spray pesticides all over the entire planet, which ends up killing all the plants. Earl, still ever faithful to his employer, is convinced they'll figure out a solution to this one.
The We Say So Corporation comes to the conclusion that rain will help the plants grow, and Richfield reveals their plan to create some clouds that would hopefully rain over the world.
As you might have guessed, this doesn't work. Clouds block out the sun, causing temperatures to drop. It's predicted the sun won't shine for tens of thousands of years. Here's Richfield's response.
And Earl is left to learn a painful lesson.
We understand, sweetheart. Understand what?
And the last we see of the Sinclair family is Earl looking out into the world with waning hope as the ashes fall around him.
After all, dinosaurs have been on this earth for 150 million years. And it's not like we're going to just disappear.
The final lines come from Howard Hand Up Me.
This is one of those episodes that speaks so clearly for itself that there isn't much commentary I need to add to it. It's a perfectly fitting end to the series, wrapping up its story and issuing a warning to the people watching at home. We only get one planet, and we have to take care of it.
In the world of TV finales, this one is often brought up as one of the saddest. And while killing off your entire cast is always going to be a low note, the fact that it was a sitcom made this hit even harder.
Comedies, traditionally and happily. And sitcoms usually live up to that tradition with their characters getting married, moving out, or in some fashion, moving on to the next exciting chapter in their lives. They don't usually die in a planet-wide extinction event.
An interesting fact about the production of this episode is that it wasn't intended to be the finale. According to the episode's writer, Kirk Thatcher, it was only turned into a finale when they learned the fourth season would be the show's last.
It was kind of the premise of the show, is that this was what happens when you think you own the world and do whatever you want and change the ecosystem to fit your idea of what's right for you as opposed to what's right for everything else on the planet.
Series co-creator Michael Jacobs expanded on that saying,
There was some pushback from ABC regarding the final episode. Michael Jacobs describes a call he got from ABC's president at the time, Ted Harbert.
He said,
Where do you even come up with the idea that you can destroy the entire cast in the last episode?
I said,
Well, Ted, it's not the cast that we were trying to destroy. It's the entire world. My source for doing this is history. He thought about it for about 30 seconds on the phone in silence and said,
Okay.
When you do a show about dinosaurs, you always have that extinction card in your pocket, and we wanted to use it.
Changing nature wasn't technically the last episode of the series to air. There were seven more episodes that were produced but not broadcast during its final fourth season.
They would be aired sometime later during syndication. So the last original episode of Dinosaurs to Air was an episode where Earl fights a children's entertainer, not unlike Barney the Dinosaur.
You wouldn't put out the most beloved character on children's TV.
Huh?
This is for all you parents at home.
Even so, Changing Nature is still widely regarded as the series finale. It aired on July 20th, 1994.
Dinosaurs had a short run, but it certainly had an impact. It debuted as part of ABC's TGIF lineup between Full House and Family Matters.
Although ratings were initially strong, they suffered after we moved several times on the network schedule.
It couldn't match its earlier success, and it was eventually cancelled.
During its heyday, there was a decent amount of merchandise made of it, such as toys, dolls, and other products that could be purchased.
One of the funner ideas was an album called Big Songs, in which characters from the show would perform.
Its lead single, I'm the Baby, had a music video produced, and it was aired as part of one of these season three episodes.
Another fun fact about this song is that the lyrics were written by Stuart Pankin, the voice of Earl Sinclair.
Listening to the album, most of the songs aren't terribly memorable outside of the lead single, and a surprisingly good track from BP Richfield called Cold-Blooded Guy.
You can find the music on YouTube if you're curious.
The album, while unusual for a sitcom, wasn't unusual for a show that was constantly compared to The Simpsons, with The Simpsons having several albums produced with music sung by the cast.
The Simpsons itself even noted similarities to Dinosaurs in one episode from 1992.
Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh!
Look, Maggie, they have a baby too!
It's like they saw our lives and put it right up on screen.
And Dinosaurs had some fun pushing back against the comparison.
This is why TV stinks. One show's a hit. They make 50 more like it with the same characters and the same premise.
Don't have a cow, man!
Although Dinosaurs' staff would note that Jim Henson had the idea for the show back in 1988, while before The Simpsons debuted as a half-hour sitcom, it should be noted that The Simpsons actually debuted in 1987 on the Tracy Allman Show.
There's no reason to think Jim Henson was inspired by these shorts, and ultimately I'm not sure it matters who came up with a satirical look at sitcom families and contemporary American culture through the lens of entertainment typically presented for children.
Both shows have their respective strengths, and are worthy of watching.
Although one went out on a high note, and the other is still around.
Another at-comparison to Dinosaurs is also a precursor to The Simpsons, and that's The Flintstones, the first massively successful animated TV sitcom on a major network.
Although airing in the 1960s, it never had the edge of The Simpsons or Dinosaurs.
Funnily enough, there was a Flintstones comic published by DC Comics in 2016 that explored issues of capitalism, genocide, and other fun topics you might sooner expect from an episode of Dinosaurs.
There's no direct link between these two pieces of media, but the prehistoric setting, biting social commentary, and subversion of a kid-friendly aesthetic suggests some kind of connection between the two.
Upon the completion of Dinosaurs, many of the puppeteers continued to be part of the Jim Henson Company for decades, with some going on to work on Sesame Street, The Muppets, and other Jim Henson productions.
Stuart Penkin, the voice of Earl Sinclair, would go on to make guest appearances on a number of television shows, such as Malcolm in the Middle and Curb Your Enthusiasm, though he may still be best remembered as the voice of Earl.
Jessica Walter, the voice of Fran, was a prolific actress all her life, and following Dinosaurs, she would go on to appear in several big roles, such as Lucille Bluth on Arrested Development and Mallory Archer on Archer.
Sadly, she passed away in 2021 at the age of 80, and the world of entertainment is much sadder having lost her incredible talent.
Jason Willinger, the voice of Robbie, has done little acting following Dinosaurs, having shifted his focus to becoming an announcer, doing voice-over work for movie trailers and TV spots.
Sally Struthers, the voice of Charlene, is still probably best remembered for being Gloria in All in the Family, though she's been working regularly ever since, including after the end of Dinosaurs, notably having a recurring role on the series Gilmore Girls as Babette Dell.
Kevin Clash remained a part of Sesame Street, playing a signature role of Elmo, but he resigned from that position in 2012 after allegations of improper sexual conduct with teenage members of the production while working on the show.
These cases were eventually dismissed since they passed the statute of limitations, and Clash recently worked on the Dark Crystal Age of Resistance series for Netflix.
As for a Dinosaurs sequel or reboot, there aren't any plans at the moment, though Michael Jacobs has described some discussions he's had with Brian Henson about a sequel.
I think we would probably have to start out pretty light and funny before going into a darker territory, but it's a very different world, it's freezing out there.
And if they went down the road of a reboot, a 2021 version would look a little different.
It'd be very topical, and we'd talk a lot more about global warming and the environment.
Robbie and Charlene would be activists and would attack their father for what he does for a living.
I think the dinner table conversations would be spectacular.
I think Dinosaurs could continue and not miss a step.
Brian Henson echoes this sentiment when he looks back on the show.
We were ahead of our time, I guess, but we were pulling a lot of our themes from All in the Family, which was years and years before us, and even the honeymooners before that.
Yes, we were ahead of our time.
But isn't it sad that we were having the same issues, not only decade after decade, but generation after generation?
It's sad.
Although no plans have been made to bring back the series, it recently made its debut on Disney+, where it may be finding a whole new audience.
For a show set millions of years in the past, Dinosaurs was ironically ahead of its time.
By using puppets, it was able to delve into topics not often broached on network sitcoms, and its use of practical effects has held up remarkably well.
Although some of the references were of its day, the core of the show is still very relevant to a present-day audience.
It's not that the show was predicting the future, but rather, it cut to the core of problems deeply ingrained in modern culture.
Problems so deep that we shouldn't be surprised that 30 years later, they still persist.
If there's one glaring flaw with Dinosaurs, it seems to suggest a submission to these problems through its cynicism.
What victories the Sinclair family had always felt rushed and almost magical in their appearance.
The happy ending sitcoms tended to demand.
At its best, the show dropped the facade of a happy ending and embraced its own cynicism.
While I don't think that's the best message in terms of making the world a better place, it does serve as a cautionary tale.
While human beings may be no better than the Dinosaurs, that doesn't mean we have to stay that way.
And with some reflection, a show like this can go from a misery machine to a lesson on how to make the world a better place by not following the examples of the Dinosaurs.
Much like the closing moments of the episode If I Were a Tree, it's not the lessons the characters are unable to learn that are the point of the series, it's the lessons we learn by watching them fail.
Ultimately, I think that's what makes the show work so well, because we, as viewers, aren't offered a solution.
We have to learn to make the world a better one on our own. Otherwise, we'll just go extinct.
I was a little surprised to see Dinosaurs win the poll when I asked people which show they wanted me to cover next.
It seemed like such a niche product of its time that I wouldn't expect many people to remember it or want to see more about it.
Revisiting the series, I can see why it made such an impact.
I thought four seasons, about 70 episodes, I'll be able to get through this quickly.
Turns out not so much, it's a very deep show with a lot of interesting themes and ideas, and it felt rewarding to dig a little deeper into them.
And I hope people enjoyed this look at Dinosaurs.
If you really enjoyed it, you can be much like the names coming up the screen and become a patron or member of this channel.
Not only do you get your name shown, but you also get early access to videos and a download to my theme songs.
Who wouldn't want that?
If you'd like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion, you can like, comment, subscribe, and hit the bell for notifications.
Why not?
Thank you all for watching.
