This was the longest week of my life.
Tim Poole is a person with a YouTube channel. Two channels, actually.
He produces about six videos daily where he comments on the news of the day.
He is not a popular guy on the left. To hear him tell it, it's because the left has lost its mind.
While I've watched a few of his videos in the past, and even made a response to one of them,
I wanted to see what a week-long trek through the world of his content would produce.
This video covers all the video content created by Tim Poole from December 15th
to December 21st in 2019. Let's dive right in.
By far, the biggest story of that week in the US political world was the vote in Congress
to impeach President Donald Trump. Of the 42 videos Tim produced, 11 were about impeachment
in one way or another. They had titles such as Democrat Slammed by protest as impeachment
support collapses. Majority now oppose impeachment. Impeachment backfire gets worse as Trump now
defeats every 2020 Democrat in major polling. Democrats have not impeached Trump. Democrats
own witness undermines Pelosi's strategy. Gee, I wonder why people would think this guy is right-wing.
These, obviously, clickbait titles are how Tim advertises his political videos.
The Democrats are consistently on the verge of collapse and the Republicans are on an endless
winning streak. But to hear Tim tell it, he's actually trying to help the Democrats by offering
honest criticism. The only problem is he has no idea what he's talking about. Tim has an
interesting take on the Trump impeachment proceedings. He believes it's a top-to-bottom
farce. To Tim, Trump not only has done nothing wrong, but the Democrats have been lawless in
pursuing him, and the subject of the investigation should be Joe Biden. One of the annoying things
about watching his videos is how rarely he explains why he believes the things he believes.
Of the 11 impeachment videos, only two really outline his case. I suppose he went into detail
in previous videos, which would be fine if he told his viewers where they could get more information,
like say a link to relevant videos. Instead, his channel is set up so that you have to have some
knowledge of right-wing narratives to believe anything that he's saying, or even to really
follow it. Not that it would help, because he's very wrong on impeachment. To be fair, Tim doesn't
want us to take his legal expertise on the matter, though. Here's an example of Tim trying to use an
expert to cite the claim that impeachment is baseless. Congress is claiming Trump obstructed
Congress by rejecting these subpoenas. Trump's argument is that he has executive privilege,
this information, and he's under no obligation to turn it over without judicial review.
And it sounds like he's right. Why does Alan Dershowitz have authority on this?
Famous Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden supporter Alan Dershowitz says,
so Tim's position relies not on the merit of the argument, but on his status as a Clinton and Biden
supporter. He's using Dershowitz's identity to support his claim, ignoring the many people who
disagree with him. For example, one of Dershowitz's own students.
Abusive power was rejected, and terms like that, as explicit grounds for impeachment.
No, that's not true, Alan. Look, that's not, abusive power was not rejected.
Yes, there were. There was, well, the word maladministration is rejected explicitly.
Maladministration is a totally different thing.
It's also worth noting that Dershowitz is currently advising the Trump administration
on impeachment proceedings, but that's only looking at the second article of impeachment,
obstruction of Congress, during the impeachment process. Tim's dismissal of the first article
is even more laughable. For those unfamiliar, the short version of the obstruction of power
claim is that President Trump withheld aid to Ukraine that had been appropriated by Congress
to pressure the president of Ukraine to either investigate or announce an investigation into Joe
Biden and his son Hunter, and also to investigate Ukraine's supposed influence on the 2016 election.
Tim finds these allegations absurd. One of the claims he seriously makes is that in no way was
Donald Trump worried about Joe Biden. Why would Trump be scared of Biden of all people? And Biden
even won the nomination yet. It's a lie. Articles published as far back in March of this year,
a few months before Trump's conversation with the president of Ukraine, suggest that Trump was
definitely worried about Biden. While Biden certainly isn't my favorite Democrat in the
field, he's undeniably the front-runner, and has been for as long as he's been in the Democratic
primary. To say Trump is not concerned about Biden or that he doesn't consider him a political
rival is to be willfully ignorant. Tim then tries to describe Trump's state of mind on why he
withheld the money. I think for one, Trump doesn't want to give U.S. money to foreign countries. I
think that's a fact. He's withholding aid from like Lebanon or other countries. I don't think
Ukraine is special. So this is something Trump does all the time, but Democrats are arbitrarily
choosing this case, even though this is a specific type of military aid that Congress
voted on giving to Ukraine. But even that isn't the real reason Trump is doing this.
Let's listen to Tim tell us the real reason Trump is doing this.
Because he's upset about this.
Tim believes Trump triggered the investigation as a form of retribution for all the lies the media
and the Democrats have supposedly been throwing at him. And Tim doesn't think that using the
office of the president and U.S. foreign policy to go after your political rivals is an abuse of
power. Of course, that's also not the real reason. Let's hear Tim give us the real reason once again,
and this time it's Trump isn't doing it out of anger, but it's because he really cares about
America. Trump said, do us a favor, though, because our country has been through a lot.
He was clearly talking about us as America. And if you want to argue, you got to argue
from the facts, but they don't do that. They say Trump demanded a favor. Trump said,
I want to favor. He never said that. So they keep going up. They say it's not disputed,
but they've never presented any evidence that Trump's frame of mind in that conversation had
anything to do with Biden. As a quick aside, Biden was mentioned specifically in the conversation,
which I believe proves Trump was thinking about him to some degree. But the important point is
none of what Tim is saying holds together. Trump didn't care about Biden during this conversation,
but he did mention him by name as a person to be investigated. Trump withheld the money
as part of standard policy, but Tim also acknowledges it was a partisan attack on
political rivals. But also, it wasn't about that. It was about his love of country.
Perhaps there's some nuance here I'm missing, but after watching these videos, I'm not sure
Tim knows what he thinks about this. The only constant in all of these videos is the narrative
that Trump needs to be considered innocent, regardless of the justifications. This is how
narrative is used to reshape the facts. You can talk about what's happening in the news,
but the facts are being distorted to reinforce the narrative that Trump did nothing wrong.
Contradictions don't matter, and neither do objective facts, just the narrative.
Here's another example of how Tim misrepresents reality to push a Trump innocence narrative.
Tim really wants to hammer home the idea that Trump hasn't committed any statutory crimes,
so this whole impeachment process doesn't meet the standards of high crimes and misdemeanors.
All of the other presidents who actually faced impeachment were being charged with statutory
crimes. Trump is the first president to face no statutory crime. And about 40 seconds before that,
he asserts something I want us to remember. He would rightly defer to the expert opinion of
an academic on the constitution over a journalist. If you're an academic and you're an expert on
the constitution and you say Trump was unimpeached, I defer to you over the journalist. If you think
Trump should be impeached on these issues, I will still defer to you over the journalists.
He's completely right when he says this, but he's also completely wrong when he says the phrase
high crimes and misdemeanors means that statutory crimes must be a part of the impeachment process.
In an article for The Atlantic, Frank O. Bowman III, a professor at the University of Missouri
School of Law who literally wrote a book on the phrase high crimes and misdemeanors,
goes into detail about the origin of the phrase and how it most certainly applies to abuse of power,
and doesn't require any statutory crimes to have been committed. Here are a few excerpts from that
article that provide historical context. In the Federalist Papers, Alexander Hamilton made the
larger point that impeachment is directed at political offenses that proceed from the abuse
or violation of some public trust. He provides a number of examples of people being impeached
without having committed a crime, and he offers a famous hypothetical and one of his own to
illustrate the subject even further. Suppose, he imagined, that in 1861, when secession fever broke
out, the president had not been Abraham Lincoln but a man who, whether moved by fear or an honest
but perverted political theory, refused to mobilize the union against the rebellion.
Would we say that the only remedy in such a case was to allow dissolution of the country because
the president's inaction was no crime? Or suppose to bring the case still closer to home,
a president were to subordinate himself and the interests of his own country to a foreign power
because he or his family could make money by doing so, or because the foreign country agreed
to help him secure a re-election. Does anyone seriously suggest that the question of whether
such behavior is impeachable turns on the niceties of ethics rules or campaign finance laws?
So why does Tim continue on with this obviously wrong narrative of impeachment having no merit
because no statutory crimes have been leveled against President Trump? It's because it supports
the narrative he loves so dearly, and that's that the Democrats are not only insane, but their
supporters are complete fools. Tim, apparently, can't understand why the Democrats are impeaching
Trump. Maybe they're sitting there being like, Trump, if Trump's going to get reelected, he needs
a good villain, so they're all going to pretend to be it. Obviously I'm joking, but I can't imagine
why else they would be doing this. But then he figures out the Democrats are actually on a
suicide mission. Rocking a hard place? Whatever. Impeachment. This is the Democrats' final salvo.
It's their kamikaze. They've lost, they know it, and it's all they have left. And then he finally
lands on what is quite possibly the most ridiculous explanation as to why Democrats
are impeaching Trump. I think the reality is the Democrats know their constituents,
these these resistance types are not very smart or are lacking information. They're ignorant.
I'm not trying to be mean, but it's true. Tim Poole thinks that the Democrats are trying to
fool their base into thinking Trump has been removed from office. In what world does this
make any sense? Does he think the Democratic voters are so stupid that they won't notice Trump
is still in office between now and the election? Tim's evidence for this outrageous claim is
provided in a different video because he's very bad at what he does and doesn't evidence claims
when he first makes them. Liberals on Twitter think impeachment means Trump is getting kicked
out of office. His evidence is random people on Twitter. I don't think that really meets the
standard of a scientific poll and it's not really a demonstration that this is a widespread problem,
but it does meet Tim's standard of cherry-picking facts to buttress a narrative of the left being
made up of people detached from reality. He also has another theory on why Democrats are being so
supposedly self-destructive. Should I believe that she thinks she's actually doing something here?
Because we all know Trump isn't going to be removed from office. So why laugh and smile as
you go to impeach him? Because it feels good? Or is it because you want to watch the world burn?
Rashida Tlaib just wants to see the world burn. She is, in fact, the Joker. But Tim,
in an effort to speak to his fellow liberals, does occasionally offer political advice. And wow,
this may be the worst of his commentary. For instance, here's a slogan he recommended to
Democrats. If the Democrats' whole campaign was Trump's not that bad, we'll be a little bit better,
they would be much, much better off than where they are today with protests erupting at their
town hall meetings. Democrats should run on a vaguely pro-Trump sentiment that they're only
going to do a little bit better? Does he not understand that Donald Trump has never been a
popular president? And how does this appeal to Democratic voters who, generally speaking,
don't like Trump? But that's not the end of his awful advice. Tim repeatedly mentions Democrats
have nothing to offer and need new ideas to sway the public. I think the only conclusion we have
is the Democrats are campaigning on things no one cares about. They're saying nothing,
no one cares what they have to say. Interesting point, and totally true, if you ignore the
Democratic primary, which had been going on this whole week. You know, the primary, where they're
discussing various ideas on healthcare, college tuition plans, climate change strategies,
campaign finance laws, financial regulations, income inequality strategies, and plenty of other
ideas. I'm not sure how someone could think that the Democrats aren't trying to offer anything new
or different, but I know why Tim hasn't heard of any of this stuff. Only seven candidates at the
stage last night. Eh, they go on and name it. I don't care. I didn't watch debate. Speaking
specifically to Bernie, though, Tim thinks it would have been a solid strategy to have supported
Trump's investigation into Biden. Look, if you're gonna ask me, I think Bernie should be,
what should be behind Trump on this one. Think about it. For one, politically, it gets Biden
out of the way. I don't think that's the right reason to do it. That's, you know, political
nonsense. Wow, there are so many reasons not to do this, such as it's wrong on the facts,
it harms your standing within the Democratic Party, and it gives ammo to Bernie's opposition
in the election, which would be pretty accurate when he's teaming up with Republicans to target
Democrats. Tim is also quick to support Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard's vote of present,
not citing for or against impeachment. But you may have noticed that Tulsi Gabbard voted present,
and man, I was on the airplane, but I wanted to give a standing ovation to this.
This is the best vote of anybody. Tulsi Gabbard's not running for reelection. She's running for
president. She has to be there for most Americans. This was a move that annoyed both the left and the
right, but he sees it as the right move to make. His undying support of Gabbard, often complimenting
her political skills, is betrayed by the fact that she polls at under 2% in the Democratic primary.
I'm sure Tim would blame the DNC or the media, but Bernie Sanders faces similar challenges,
and he's managed to be one of the frontrunners. That's because people actually like him and his
policies, and based on a recent poll, not many people like Tulsi. But hey, this deeply unpopular
Democrat is an example of someone doing it right in Tim's eyes, so that's the sort of support one
would get for following Tim's strategies on how to run a successful campaign. I believe all these
suggestions from Tim Pool reveal two things. The first is that Tim is genuine. This could be
portrayed as him providing his bona fides to his right-wing audience as being ostensibly someone
on the left, but the reactions and comments tend to be disinterested on how to repair the left and
more interested in destroying it. I think he genuinely believes that these suggestions will
write the Democratic Party and let it have a brighter future in American politics. The second
thing these suggestions reveal is that Tim Pool is completely clueless when it comes to politics.
His ideas betray an appalling ignorance on political maneuvering and public sentiment.
It pretends the Democratic base is non-existent or not worth considering, and it praises strategies
that have been proven to fail. Tim just doesn't know what he's talking about here. Before leaving
his impeachment discussion, I'll highlight one more clip. Here's Tim talking about Donald Trump's
political leanings. Donald Trump, in reality, for those that are actually tracking politics,
is a moderate. He really is. They want to claim he's far right now. Trump's a New York Democrat.
I think the only reason he ran as a Republican is because Democrats would never elect a billionaire.
I don't know how someone could possibly believe this. The man who spent his administration by
trying to undo everything done by President Obama, from the Iran deal to the Paris Climate
Accord to the Affordable Care Act, the man who pushed tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans,
and the man who is appointing conservative judges across the country, is a New York Democrat.
And that's a narrative that, if you can convince someone of, you can convince them of anything.
Donald Trump is supposedly a moderate. So what, in Tim's mind, would a real conservative look like?
Recently, Cenk Uygur of The Young Turks announced a run for Congress in California. Although well
known for being on the left, a number of spurious articles attacking him appeared in the supposedly
left-wing mainstream media. Tim commented on this in his video titled, The Young Turks Cenk Uygur is
getting destroyed by establishment over his animal love endorsement. Now, I really want to stress the
title here. Tim gets very angry about misleading headlines, but what does this one suggest? The
media is a tanking Cenk, yes, but it's only vaguely hinted at being based on falsehood by
the quotation marks around animal love. And the quotation marks are there because Tim is just
afraid YouTube will censor him if he uses a forbidden word. This is because YouTube will
shut down videos, they'll demonetize videos, and I can not use certain words to explain certain
ideas. I'm sure Tim would say, well, if someone clicked the video, they'd get the full story,
and then they would walk away realizing that he's not saying it's true. He's actually saying
the opposite. First of all, the viral clip is out of context. I refuse. I don't care if it's
if it's Cenk Uygur. I don't care if it's Nick Fuentes. You take an out of context clip, and I
can't tell what it is. I'm going to tell you the GTFO, period. Pretty straightforward. Tim clears
things up. Anyone who'd watch his video would understand that this was about defending Cenk
about the claim, not advancing it. But if we look under the comments of this video, we'll see that
his clarifications haven't really affected a large number of viewers. Comment after comment
about Cenk wanting to have sex with animals, I'd be a little worried if I made a video supposedly
to defend someone, only to find everyone repeating the exact charge that I was trying to debunk.
People don't really watch Tim's videos for his analysis, but to have their narratives be
confirmed. In this case, it's a narrative about someone on the left being some sort of weird
deviant. It also might not have helped things if Tim had not spent so much time complaining
that Cenk yelled at him one time and that Tim doesn't like that he's running for office.
That's what most of the video is actually about. And in the video titled, conservative memes are
being censored because fact checkers think leftist media is the default. We get more on Tim's
feelings about the left-wing hypocrisy in the media. Newsguard, which is apparently left-wing,
had the gall to criticize The Daily Wire, which is a news outlet run by everyone's favorite Ben
Shapiro. They say that, right here, does not repeatedly publish false content. Thumbs up.
It's got a green check mark. Okay, thank you, thank you, thank you, Newsguard, for letting me know
that there are severe issues with Daily Wire, but at least they're not publishing false content,
right? Actually, they say this, credibility. However, The Daily Wire frequently publishes
false and misleading information. Okay, hold on. You told me they don't do that. And then,
in your own content about it, you say they do do that. I got a contradiction here.
Newsguard has made a factual error. I'm sorry. Got him. Now, a clever person here might go on
to read the very lengthy 31 paragraphs detailing all the times The Daily Wire misrepresented a
story, but no, that's not what Tim is here to do. He's here to talk about the little summary
graphic at the top, not matching the more detailed breakdown at the bottom, while specifically this
sentence here. Tim calls this inconsistency a factual error, but the error here appears to
be that Newsguard isn't being hard enough on The Daily Wire in its summary graphic. And you know,
I think we have to give it to Tim this time. Newsguard is just too soft on right-wing news websites.
I'm not sure how being too soft on a right-wing news outlet proves that the fact checkers have
a left-wing bias, though. Kind of the opposite, actually. Better luck next time, Tim. But my
favorite part of this video is when Tim starts going off on Buzzfeed News. Let's see how angry he gets.
Tim, though, thinks Buzzfeed News was running this story as something to laugh at and that
they're all secretly racist. You know what's interesting, though? The Buzzfeed News article
actually never mentions the race of either of the two men, and it doesn't publish pictures of them
either. So how does Tim know they're black? I didn't just want to accuse Tim of making a
racist assumption here, so I took the extra step of digging up the original video on this story
from November 6th, 2019 titled, Buzzfeed wrote a fake headline about two black men fighting to death
over chicken. So Buzzfeed News didn't mention race at all, but Tim puts it right in the headline.
That's an interesting choice. Tim's problem with this chicken sandwich story is that there was no
literal chicken sandwich in anyone's hands, but rather people were in line to buy said sandwich.
For context, this sandwich was making a much awaited return, and Buzzfeed News based its headline
on a statement from the police. Oh, as Tim argues, nowhere did they say they were fighting over a
sandwich. What the police said was that it was preliminary, they said it's preliminary, but
this was related to the release of a sandwich. Could it be that I don't know because of the
release of the sandwich, a guy was going to meet up with another guy at the location and they
weren't going to get the sandwich? The sandwich has nothing to do with it. It seems Tim got more
information about this new story from an article in the Daily Mail which posted lots of pictures.
There's a comment from the cousin of the stabbed man clearly upset that his cousin's death is being
used to market a chicken sandwich. Tim seems to think this proves his point that the murder had
nothing to do with the sandwich though. Then Tim starts to get really worked up. This is when they
cover the violence. This is when they cover the violence that when I was growing up in Chicago,
this is the kind of stuff we deal with. And now you've got this dude's family saying they weren't
fighting over a chicken sandwich man, but that's the funny story that Buzzfeed gets to report,
isn't it? These people are hypocrites and they're disgusting. You know, I never really claimed to
be a media expert, at least not the way Tim does. I'm just curious, does Buzzfeed News ever dare to
talk about the violence in Chicago? These articles are all from 2019 and they seem to suggest that,
yes, in fact, they do. Lots of important stories are there. If Tim thinks this isn't enough,
then I have some great news for him. He has a platform where he can cover all of these stories
and more and can really put a spotlight on the violence problem in Chicago he apparently cares
about a lot. For some reason, he chooses not to. In the interest of fairness, Tim's two primary
channels actually did cover a very specific crime in Chicago quite extensively in 2019.
One that did also involve issues of race and it so inspired Tim that he made 12 videos alone on
the subject and that's the Jussie Smollett staged hate crime. So when Tim points his finger at
Buzzfeed News for being racist and ignoring violence in Chicago, when Tim's recent work in
said field is to obsessively discuss a staged hate crime, he can spare me the indignation. Maybe he
should take a look at the sort of stories he propagates instead of lying about the people who
are doing the very thing he accuses them of not doing. Oh, and going back briefly to the Popeyes
story, Tim wanted to give credit to the Daily Mail for doing a better job covering the story.
Funny how Tim doesn't get upset about the Daily Mail saying it was over a chicken sandwich, huh?
Now let's talk about how much Tim cares about the media. In the artfully titled video,
California has nuked leftist media from orbit. Hundreds of writers are being fired under new law.
Tim describes how a new law was passed in California that puts a limit on how much
work employers can purchase from freelancers without making them full-time employees.
Tim sums up the problem for us like this. Are these leftists saying, hey,
companies aren't paying their employees enough and they keep hiring freelancers?
Got an idea. Let's make it so they can't hire freelancers more than 35 times per year.
That way, they'll be forced to hire the freelancers, right? It all makes sense.
This is a progressive victory, they say. In reality, it's very different. In reality,
they say, well, we can't hire all these people. Just fire all these people. We'll save money
and we'll figure it out somewhere else. Or better yet, they're going to hire freelancers in different
states. You know what's going to happen to these people who don't have work anymore?
They're not going to be able to pay their rent. Then they're going to end up in a homeless camp
and it's going to be your fault. This video is in the context of talking about a new story where
Fox eliminated 200 jobs right before the holiday season, no less. Many of these cuts are coming
from SB Nation, a blogging network owned by Vox. Tim even reads a small excerpt in an official
statement from SB Nation. This is a bittersweet note of thanks to our California independent
contractors, John Ness. Executive director of SB Nation wrote in a post on Monday,
in 2020, we will move California's team blogs from our established system with hundreds of
contractors to a new one run by a team of new SB Nation employees. You know what they literally
said? We need these jobs filled. If you're in California, you're fired. We're going to rehire
because the jobs aren't going anywhere, other people. Think about that for a second. This is
not a case of being told your company can't support you. I'm sorry, we have to let you go.
It's not a case of Vox going out of business. It's literally Vox saying, you guys passed the law.
I got to fire you, but this dude over here in Arizona, he's all good. He's hired. He gets your
job now. What would happen if we clicked on that link and read the full statement? We'd find this
telling paragraph. To comply with this new law, we will not be replacing California contractors
with contractors from other states. Rather, we're encouraging any contractors interested in one of
our newly created full-time or part-time employee positions to apply. We know many of our California
contractors already have other full-time jobs and may not have the bandwidth to apply, but we hope
to see many of them join us as employees. So SB Nation is getting rid of its freelance positions
and replacing them with full-time and part-time jobs. Although I do feel for the freelancers who
have full-time jobs and we're just doing this freelancing to make a little extra income.
If there are examples of people being unfairly hurt by this law, this story isn't it. Tim tries
to portray it as people being cast out in the streets with no source of income and now they're
going to be struggling living in homeless camps because they can't pay their bills, saying that
all these jobs are going out of state when in fact they aren't. They're being replaced by full-time
positions, which is sort of how the law is supposed to work because full-time positions
are better than freelance ones. And this is Tim all over. He finds these stories that he thinks
reinforces narratives, in this case the leftist media championing socialist policies that destroy
jobs, but he doesn't check the facts well enough to make sure they don't say the exact opposite.
He finds enough information to confirm his narrative of leftist media pushing the destructive
agenda and then he moves on, confident that his audience won't do the basics to fact check him.
There's one criticism I know I'm going to get, so I want to address it right here.
I've seen him use this defense on Twitter before, saying watch all my videos before you criticize
me, which is frankly preposterous. When there are hundreds of hours, no one can possibly do this.
The point of this response is to show you all what it's like to watch a single week of his content.
If I was a person unfamiliar with Tim Poole and decided to give his content a try for a week,
what would I find? What would I see? These are the results of that.
Q&A. I'll have a community post asking for more questions in the future,
so if you've got any questions for me, hold on to them, and we'll do a big QA video.
That'll be fun. Like, comment, subscribe, hit the bell.
