We've all made mistakes in our lives, done things we look back on with regret,
maybe wishing there was some kind of way of making it right.
My Name is Earl takes an average scumbag and gives him a mission to do just that,
and in turn gives us a blueprint on how to make amends for wrongdoing
and making the world a better place in the process.
Running for a mere four seasons, My Name is Earl was a smash hit when it debuted,
only to be unceremoniously cancelled after its fourth season.
In that short time, it won several awards and grew a small cult following.
Earl Hickey and his journey of redemption through the cartoonish role of Camden County
gave audiences a crash course in karma, revealing the simplicity of doing good.
And it gave us one of the greatest mustaches in TV history.
The story of My Name is Earl begins with Greg Garcia.
Before creating the series, Garcia had written for shows such as Family Matters and On Our Own.
He then went on to co-create the sitcom Yes, Dear for CBS.
Garcia came up with an idea for a show starring a less than savory character
trying to make up for all the wrong he had done in his life,
partially inspired by parts of Garcia's own personal history.
My father, or stepfather, is named Earl.
He wasn't the best guy in the world.
He was somewhat of a crook.
I don't think he was as bad as some of the things Earl has done,
but he kind of saw the light and started to change his ways
and didn't officially make a list.
But he went around and kind of made up for some of the things he's done
and he's continuing to do that.
So he really inspired me.
Garcia pitched the show to Fox, thinking it would be a good fit for the network,
but they ultimately passed on the pilot's script.
That script found its way to NBC,
and while they initially wanted Garcia to create a whole new series for them,
he suggested that instead they take the existing script and turn it into a series.
And so My Name is Earl was born.
Early on, director Mark Buckland was attached to the project
and became a big part of the look of the series.
He and Garcia were on the same page about wanting My Name is Earl to look cinematic.
We just said, you know, this thing really should look like a movie every week.
For the show to move forward, it had to assemble the right cast
and the crucial first step was finding the right person to play Earl.
Partially because NBC really wanted him on their network,
Jason Lee was an early favorite to play Earl.
Lee had mostly worked in movies at this point and back in 2005,
it was a lot less common to see actors moving from the big screen to the small one.
The strength of the pilot's script convinced Lee to take the part.
This is something that I would see in a film if done right.
And if done right, it would be up my alley,
the kind of movie I would want to be and I would want to watch.
Earl was a former dirtbag turned good guy and Lee brought an easy charm to the character
that made the audience root for him on his journey.
Lee also had the brilliant idea of giving Earl his signature mustache.
And he said, you know what, he goes, I look really funny with a mustache.
He goes, trust me, a mustache would be hilarious.
And he was right.
The iconic look was originally something they had to fight the network on,
but for all our sake, sanity eventually prevailed and Earl Hickey was born.
You got great boobs, Peggy.
Her name was not Peggy.
Ethan Suppley was in early consideration for the role of Randy Hickey, Earl's brother.
Although Lee and Suppley had been friends for a while,
having worked on a number of projects over the years,
that wasn't how Suppley ended up in consideration for the role.
And the story and the characters were hysterical.
My wife is a manager and she said, what the hell are you reading?
And I said, I'm reading My Name is Earl.
And she said, that's Jason Shell.
And I was like, what?
It was a complete surprise to Suppley when he found out that he was in the running for
a series starring his longtime friend and their onscreen chemistry made for an easy fit.
Randy is a man of many strange talents and a unique perspective.
Although not the most intellectually gifted of people,
he does have a good heart and remains Earl's most loyal friend.
Randy, those are poison.
How poison?
The role of Joy, Earl's ex-wife, very quickly went to Jamie Pressley.
According to Pressley, it was basically given to her at the audition.
I went in there like, so when do we start shooting?
It's hard to imagine anyone else as the hard as nails, yet somehow charming trailer park terror.
Although Joy and Earl didn't have the best marriage,
they did manage to become friends after it ended.
At least, they did eventually.
You are not the one standing with the freshly broken bottle now, are you?
Well, this will still hurt if I hit you with it.
Eddie Steeples caught the eye of Greg Garcia after his appearance in a number of commercials,
specifically his role as the rubber band man in a series of Office Max ad spots.
Steeples played Darnell Turner, also known as Harry Monroe, more on that later,
and affectionately nicknamed Crabman.
Darnell is Joy's love interest and eventual new husband.
The perpetual face of chill, Darnell is the yin to her yang, though his calm demeanor
hides a mysterious past.
Hi, Earl.
Hey, Crabman.
Joy wanted me to bring you these poison cookies.
Huh?
I wasn't gonna get involved, but now she got me delivering poison.
Just don't sing right.
The last person to join the principal cast was Nadine Velasquez, playing Catalina Arruca,
the maid in the motel Earl and Randy live in.
Velasquez actually gave up being part of the series Prison Break,
where she would have played the character Maricruz Delgado,
so she could instead be a part of My Name is Earl.
Catalina brings a bit of flavor to the cast, offering a friend to support Earl and Randy,
while also being a foil to Joy.
There you go.
Now, if you do it to the other hand, I want to take you to my church
so I can watch all the old ladies cry.
When the show came together, it tested surprisingly well with audiences,
in spite of the fact that its single-camera style was a relatively new thing
for networks that come at the time.
Those early positive signs even led NBC to give out advanced previews of the pilot
to people via a CD-ROM that was inserted into magazines,
something that is absolutely a relic of the era this show came from.
My Name is Earl premiered on a Tuesday night and brought with it
some high hopes that it would be a hit, and it was an instant success.
Straight from Carson Daly's lips to my morphine-laced ear.
Debuting on Tuesday, September 20th, 2005, with an episode titled
Pilot, My Name is Earl waved hello to the world.
The opening minutes of the show establish the premise in short order.
Earl is not a good guy.
Sort of shifty-looking fella who buys a pack of smokes,
a couple lotto scratchers, and a tall boy at 10 in the morning.
He's married to a woman who got him drunk enough to marry her,
even though she was six months pregnant with another man's child.
Joy didn't remember much about the boy's real father,
except that he drove a Ford.
So we named him Dodge.
A year later, she gave birth to another son,
though Earl suspects this one wasn't his either.
There he was.
Earl Jr.
Earl's life changes forever, though, when he wins $100,000 in the lotto,
and he's then hit by a car and loses the scratcher.
Joy soon leaves Earl for Darnell, the real father of her second son,
and while Earl is stuck in a hospital bed wondering why his life is so miserable,
Earl learns about a little thing called karma.
You do good things, and good things happen to you.
You do bad things, and they'll come back to haunt you.
Karma.
Karma.
There it was.
Having been tricked out of the trailer by Joy, Earl and Randy are living at a motel.
They make a new friend in Catalina, and Earl announces his new plan in life,
to make a list of every person he's wronged and then try to somehow make it up to them.
I almost died because something good happened to me that I didn't deserve.
That karma stuff is gonna kill me unless I make up for everything on that list.
As if karma is smiling down on him, the lottery scratcher returns,
and Earl has $100,000 he can use to fund his new quest to make all his wrongs right.
The rest of the episode has Earl going on his first task,
making amends with one of his former bullying victims, Kenny, played by Greg Binkley.
He decides for this one he needs to get Kenny laid, only Kenny has a secret.
I live in a small town, and I've never been face to face with a gay before.
This is where the show starts to get more interesting.
If all Earl was doing in this series was traveling around doing good deeds,
it wouldn't be much of a show.
From the pilot, we're getting a few key elements about what makes this series so special.
Earl isn't just here to help Kenny, he has to help himself by getting past his own homophobia.
To help get Kenny out of the closet, Earl takes him to a gay bar,
and the experience is so transformative for Kenny that he lets Earl know he can cross him off his list.
The one man I was the most scared of in my whole life has accepted me as I am.
You took away my confidence, but today you gave it back.
This episode offered a very lovely portrait of how to make amends to a person.
It begins with Earl realizing he's done something wrong.
He then goes to make amends.
He learns about who his victim is as a person,
and what unique way he can offer some form of restitution.
And then his victim tells Earl when he's done enough.
It's a form of justice that focuses on restitution towards the wrong party
rather than punishing the aggressor.
And there were so many other important facts established in the pilot.
Earl finding the lottery ticket he lost, and still sticking with his list,
establishes that this mission is something Earl is going to be on for a while.
He's not just doing it for the sake of getting that one lottery ticket back.
And by helping someone else, Earl also helps make himself a better person,
overcoming the homophobia of his past self.
Something we'll see in later episodes is Kenny coming to Earl's help when he needs it in the
future as the series reveals over time, while Earl views it as a personal mission,
this journey has consequences for all of Camden.
Earl is a flawed guide, but he's made lovable by wanting to do better.
He's also limited in that he's not suddenly a master of ethical living.
But this doesn't somehow stop him from being a decent person.
Karma is a simple, but very effective way of living a better life.
Something anyone can take on, even Earl.
The pilot was a huge hit, being watched by nearly 15 million people.
A fun fact about this episode is that it also includes an appearance by the series creator,
Greg Garcia.
He's the guy Randy dances with at the gay bar.
Over the years, there would be a number of cameos like this from Garcia and other members
of the staff on the show.
But this one was particularly fun.
In the DVD set for the first season, there was also an alternate version of the pilot,
Bad Karma, that was included.
Instead of Carson Daly, Earl listens to Stewie Griffin from Family Guy go on a short rant,
and takes this to heart instead.
So instead of making a list of people he's wronged, Earl makes a list of vengeance and
decides to be even worse than he had been before.
Much of the pilot's events are inverted, like Earl attacking Joy and Darnell instead
of Joy attacking him when she finds out he won the lottery.
And Earl tries to manipulate Kenny, thinking that he's straight, into having sex with
a prostitute who has a penis.
The episode ends with Earl being hit by a car, and this time, a very upset Joy and Darnell,
left bald by Earl's attack, decide to finish him off for good, leaving Randy to become
the star of the series.
This episode is a cute little extra, and it's also notable for being the one time we see
Jason Lee playing Earl with a fake mustache and sideburns.
Absolutely criminal.
Earl's growth can be summarized very easily as a simple man making himself and his community
better through good deeds.
In the second episode, quit smoking.
Earl tries to make up for getting his friend Donnie arrested.
Only Donnie found religion in jail, and he forgives Earl.
But Donnie wasn't the only victim, and Earl finds that he needs to make up for the two
years Donnie's mother lost with her son.
So to make things square, he helps Donnie's mother quit smoking so she'll have some
extra time with him.
While smoking is likely not as easy to quit as the montage makes it to be, or at least
give quitting a fighting chance like the montage suggests, this little story reflects how Earl
realizes his actions have hurt people outside of his list.
The bad Earl did often spilled out and had a greater impact than he thought, but the
same is true of the good.
This list item helped Earl get healthier and Donnie and his mother have more time to
spend together.
Three people helped with one good deed.
The important lesson, and one we see throughout the series, is that everyone and everything
is connected to something else, and one good deed or one bad deed could ripple out to affect
an entire community.
By choosing to do good instead of bad, this is how Earl is making his community a better
place.
There's also a wonderful feedback loop that shows us that, by doing good and becoming
a better person, Earl is able to take on more challenging tasks and having an increased
impact in his community.
Earl is effectively becoming a greater force for change as the series progresses, and Earl's
commitment to karma is tested through an increasingly heavy load.
This is how Earl makes himself better.
In the season one finale, number one, Earl attempts to cross off the first thing on his
list.
It was the last bad thing he ever did before getting hit by a car, still ten dollars from
a guy at a convenience store, only he finds out that that guy was going to use ten dollars
to buy the winning lottery ticket that Earl bought instead, so Earl has to give the guy
his lottery money.
Having lost his lottery winnings, Earl puts his faith in karma to care for him and Randy,
and that often takes the shape of his friends helping him out.
Even with his money gone, Earl keeps working on the list.
Then he loses his car, and he keeps working on the list, and it even looks like he might
be losing Randy, and he still keeps on working on the list.
He learns that the man Earl originally stole that ten dollars from was ruined by the lottery
winnings.
There's an almost mystical quality to the experience, as if this money can only be used
to do good for others.
This episode also raised the important point of how sometimes doing good can feel like
you're going backwards, but if you stay on track, things will work out, and friends
can help you along the way.
The audio commentary reflected this very important part of the series.
Earl at the beginning of the season likely would have bailed the moment his money vanished
and gone back to his thieving ways, but doing good deeds for a year has changed him.
It's not just about the reward, but also the experience.
He still believes karma will make his life better, but not in the way he might have at
the beginning.
Earl's capacity to do good and the power of good deeds are a major force driving him
forward throughout the seasons.
What Earl can do for others expands as more people do good alongside him.
Earl's approach to doing good deeds is never very complicated.
He's aware that he's a work in progress and that by doing good, he's working on
making himself better, as perhaps best summed up at the end of the season one episode titled
The Professor.
How can you not root for this guy?
These little moments are never very complicated and that's part of Earl's charm.
He's a simple guy and doing good doesn't have to be a complicated thing.
In the season two episode, Rob to Stoner Blind, Earl is faced with a deep dilemma when Woody,
played by Christian Slater, teaches him about climate change.
As Earl realizes this is going to require him to do a lot more than change his personal
habits, he starts to feel overwhelmed by the problem.
Climate change is beyond the power of a former thief on a mission to underdo his wrongdoings.
The episode saying Earl just needs to repay the earth in a small way is a decent enough
message.
But what rings particularly true here is that, for Earl, thinking on some kind of grand scale
to fix the planet is not something he needs to do.
What we're learning here is that, instead of being bogged down in grand ethical debates
on how we live our lives and how it impacts every other organism on the planet, Earl can
do good just by following his list and by doing that, it reveals how doing good is really
a simple thing.
That's another theme that runs through the series.
It's not that worrying about big problems is a bad thing, it's that doing good doesn't
require exclusively fixating on those heavier burdens.
As long as someone is still making some kind of small step to help with those bigger problems
and spending the rest of their time doing good in other, more immediate ways.
The series isn't about wrestling with massive ethical conundrums.
For instance, is it more moral to adopt a stray cat or donate your time to help a soup
kitchen?
The answer in this series is that it's not an either or question.
You do the one that makes the most sense to you.
It's the doing that matters the most.
In the season 4 episode Sweet Johnny, we see a great example of that when Earl tries
to make amends with a local stuntman named Sweet Johnny, played by David Arquette, only
to learn that Sweet Johnny has a brain injury that prevents him from forming new memories.
So Earl could never really make up for the fact that he slept with Sweet Johnny's girlfriend.
Though he keeps trying, eventually Earl realizes why he's trying so hard.
I was really only trying to make me feel better by crossing Johnny off the list.
For the first time since I started doing my list, I wasn't going to be able to cross
somebody off.
I was going to have to just let it nag at me.
But since Johnny was never going to remember, it felt right that someone will never forget.
A guilty conscience is not something that is always a thing you can get rid of, but
good deeds are always something a person can do.
It may not make things right, but it can serve as a permanent reminder to be a better person.
It's a very deep lesson for such a simple guy, and it's how the whole process of doing
good shows the evolution of Earl.
He becomes a better person and learns about the limitations of those good works, and even
though he can't make everything right, that's no excuse not to do the good he can.
And importantly, with Earl learning these lessons, it reveals that anyone can learn
them alongside him.
Although Earl is trying to be a better person, what's inescapable is that he isn't quite
there yet, and that often gets revealed in some less than enlightened moments throughout
the series.
The aforementioned homophobia from the pilot is a great example because it not only highlights
a problem of Earl's, but also how he corrects it.
It was put succinctly by Jamie Pressley in the audio commentary for the season one episode,
White Lie Christmas.
That's what I love about our show though, is that it's politically incorrect and then
it corrects itself.
In a really twisted way.
In a really twisted way.
Even though the show's humor bordered on the offensive at times, it didn't get a lot
of pushback from the audience.
In another audio commentary, this time in the season one episode, Oh Karma Where Art
Thou, we hear how that that's why the show didn't get as much anger directed towards
it for its more offensive moments.
The show on occasion also has its cake and eats it too by having Earl do all sorts of
horrible things in extended flashback sequences, sometimes nearly lasting the whole episode,
to then see him making up for it in the present.
This makes the whole journey feel more real.
Rather than everything take place within the narrow timeframe of a few days, like on most
other sitcoms, going back several years with numerous flashbacks creates a more realistic
length of time for Earl to grow and the audience has been seeing that the whole time, since
that's the premise of the series, so they can be a bit more forgiving of Earl in the
past.
Or even people in the present who have yet to have undergone Earl's positive influence
or gone on his journey.
The passage of time needed to improve as a person feels particularly real when it comes
to how Earl begins to mend his relationship with his father, Carl, played by Bo Bridges.
When we first see them together, shortly after Earl has started his list in the episode,
Cost Dad the Election, we can see what a lifetime of Earl's bad behavior has done to the relationship.
Earl is trying to convince his dad to run for mayor after Earl ruined his last campaign.
Earl drags Carl back into another mayoral election, and while it looks like Carl might
win this one, Earl accidentally screws it up again when he gets arrested for falling
on a cop.
But the real tragedy is that, Carl just can't believe Earl is trying to do better.
But that's not the whole story.
A few episodes later, in Dad's Car, we see Earl's efforts start to pay off when his
attempt to return Carl's lost Mustang reveals that the car was meant for Earl, which has
Earl putting himself on his own list.
Earl doesn't just get the car, but the project of he and his dad putting it back together.
Perhaps the sweetest part of the relationship is in the season 4 episode, Monkeys Take a
Bath, where Carl finds out that his wife, Kay, played by Nancy Lenahan, cheated on him.
After learning that payback isn't going to take the pain away, Carl and Earl bond
over having been married to women who were unfaithful.
Admittedly, this is pretty funny, it's also really beautiful.
What Earl and Carl give each other in this exchange is freedom from the chains of a masculine
repression of emotions, and they both learn the power of forgiveness.
If this series is about Earl seeking forgiveness from others, this episode, and this final
part of his journey with his father, reveal that he also needed to find a way to forgive
others himself, because sometimes, even Earl is the victim.
In this case, the victim of a society that told him he wasn't allowed to cry.
And anyone raised as a boy can certainly relate to that.
Kay Hickey describes her sons like this.
I would rather say that Randy is… not complex.
But that doesn't make him any less worthy of the respect and admiration one has for
Earl.
One of the first things we learn about Randy is how much he cares about his brother.
And it's not so much that he needs Earl to babysit him all the time, but that Randy
chooses to be with his brother.
This makes Randy the perfect karma partner for Earl.
Earl sums it up well in the season 1 episode, Monkeys in Space, when he says…
Earl's appreciation of Randy, not just as a helper, but as a brother, is evident
throughout the series.
You get a real sense that they were always close, but if anything, working on the list
has brought them even closer together, particularly when Randy goes the extra mile to help Earl
with his list, even if it means putting his own wants on hold.
This is from the season 1 episode, Still Beer from a Golfer.
Earl and Randy have a very sweet relationship.
They're perhaps not typical brothers in that they sleep in the same bed and spend
every day together, but they support each other in everything they do.
Randy's ability to do good reinforces the point made about doing good being a relatively
simple proposition.
If Earl can do it, why not Randy?
His whole character serves as an extreme example of one of the points I mentioned about Earl,
that doing good does not require some sophisticated set of ethics.
In season 4's Got the Babysitter Pregnant, we get a sense of how far Randy has come when
he fends for himself while helping someone on Earl's list.
With Randy having someone to look up to him the way he looked up to Earl, Randy starts
living by Earl's positive example, taking care of the guy and trying to get his life
in order.
And Randy reveals just how much his adventures with Earl have changed him for the better.
Although Earl does take care of Randy to a degree, it's important that this is a
voluntary relationship and Randy does his job as well, taking care of Earl.
Going back to the label of slow, we do need to address how Randy is often depicted on
the show as being less bright than most of the people around him.
In the season 2 episode, Harassed a Reporter, we see how some people view Randy when a news
story covering Earl's list tries to tug on the heartstrings of the audience by putting
Randy in a certain light.
When Randy confronts the reporter about how she deceptively edited the footage, she says
it was revenge for all the times he ruined her live broadcasts in the past.
Randy, who had been feeling overlooked compared to his do-gooder brother, takes the reporter's
words rather well.
Randy may not be a genius, but his ability to look on the bright side here reveals a
good heart and a mindset that doesn't let him get too trapped in self-pity.
But more important is that his fear of being labeled special reveals how labels like that
trap people.
It would turn Randy into an object of pity and mockery, and he's so much more than
what his grades and score are like.
In other shows, characters like Randy don't get nearly as much screen time unless they're
there to be mocked with brief one-liners.
And more than being a big part of the show, Randy has a really fulfilling life.
He falls in love multiple times, he goes on adventures, and when Earl is incapacitated,
he steps up for his brother and takes the list on himself.
Randy gets to be a part of the show just the way everyone else is, and more so than just
about every other character aside from Earl.
Randy is definitely not common, but we don't need to label him with a condition in need
of treatment.
Being different is not always a medical condition, and Randy is still a valuable and important
part of Camden County.
Another big part of Randy's story, at least in the first two seasons, is his crush on
Catalina.
Randy's fixation here is a bit creepy at times, and a bit strange considering we see
him date another woman within the time period he has a crush on Catalina.
Even after Randy marries Catalina to deal with her citizenship issues, he still can't
bring himself to be honest with her, and when he does, she only pretends to return his feelings.
Catalina then takes Joy's advice to make herself as gross as possible so they can ask
Saks and she can turn Randy off forever.
And it works, Randy is grossed out, but Catalina suddenly regrets it because Randy is apparently
great at Saks and their roles are reversed, with Catalina longing for Randy and him being
oblivious and uninterested.
And then the show just kinda drops that whole story and never really brings it up again.
The whole misadventure would feel strange not to mention, but perhaps it serves as an example
of why certain plotlines are introduced and then dropped in the series.
Personally, I suspect Randy's strength as a character is part of the reason this plotline
got scrapped.
He was so versatile and capable of so much that he didn't need a running premise to
fuel story ideas, he got to generate them all on his own by being himself.
He never really needed the crush on Catalina to make him interesting, he was always interesting.
Ethan Subley touched on this briefly in a panel discussion.
Randy is always the same because the best parts of him don't really need to change.
Sure he grows and changes because of Earl's positive influence, but deep down he was always
a sweet guy with a good heart and his unique perspective of the world let him see things
that other people didn't, and sometimes that's all you need to tell good stories.
As one example of a fun Randy-centered story, in season 4's We've Got Spirit, we find
out that Randy has always dreamed of being a cheerleader.
We see Randy take the lead, inspiring the other cheerleaders at the camp, and when it's
finally time to perform, he goes out there and shows everyone what he's got, even if
everyone in Camden only showed up to have a laugh.
And this time, it's Earl who steps up to support Randy.
The Camden Squad wins everyone over.
A nice touch in this episode is that, even though Randy is doing his own thing, it doesn't
mean he doesn't need Earl to support him.
If Randy is always backing up Earl, Earl can also do the same for Randy.
I personally don't have a brother, but I know if I did, I'd want a relationship
to be like Randy's and Earl's.
Joy Turner is not an easy woman to love.
She's rude, mean, and self-absorbed.
In the early episodes of the series, it's almost as though she's being set up to be
the villain, trying to kill Earl so she can get his lottery winnings, but the series quickly
readjusted and took some time to portray Joy in a more sympathetic light, at least
a little bit.
Jamie Pressley's portrayal of Joy was a major standout early in the show's run.
Pressley was the only member of the principal cast nominated for an Emmy for her performance
on the series, and she won Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in 2007.
It was well-earned, and you can see Joy's role in the series expanding as they realized
how good Pressley was playing her.
In an interview, Pressley described the appeal of Joy as being an inner voice women wished
they could channel.
Believe it or not, I have women come up to me all the time saying, repeating all the
one-liners that Joy has, because there's a little bit of Joy in every woman that wants
to come out sometimes.
But what made the character work, and seems so particularly convincing, was her gradually
revealed range as a character.
When Joy and Darnell get married in Season 1's Joy's Wedding, it becomes a list item
for Earl when he drunkenly ruins it.
Things don't get too much better when, while planning Joy's dream wedding, Earl sleeps
with Joy.
Darnell is crushed when he finds out, and the wedding only goes forward when he realizes
the full depth of Joy's feelings.
Earl is very much an early work in progress, particularly in these early episodes, and
Joy represents something similar throughout the run of the series.
Although Earl is an imperfect convert to Karma, Joy is less impressed with the idea of Karma.
But as the series progresses, we, very slowly, see Joy begin to change.
It starts with her and Earl developing a real friendship.
In Season 1's The Bounty Hunter, we see Joy realizing just how far Earl is willing
to go to help her, keeping Joy safe from a bounty hunter, and the two put their marriage
in perspective.
In Season 2's Blow, Joy, finding out she has a half-sister, Liberty Washington, played
by Tamala Jones, ends up with Joy becoming a surrogate for her.
And by Season 4, Joy begins to check her own harsh behavior when she sees how it impacts
her kids in the episode, Joy and a Bubble.
What makes for a compelling character is someone who changes throughout the story, whether
they reveal parts of themselves not immediately evident, such as Joy's less abrasive side
coming out, or if a character grows, such as Joy becoming more empathetic to the people
around her.
In the context of My Name is Earl, it speaks to the transformative power of doing good
deeds that both of these things become more apparent as Joy is impacted by the good works
of Earl, and even does a couple herself.
Joy's life goes through some turbulent changes throughout the series.
She nearly goes to prison in one season and ends up in the Witness Protection Program
in another, but the real changes we care about are the ones inside her, the slow glacial
changes that reveal that even this incredibly unlikable woman has the capacity to be better.
Late in Season 4, Earl works to get Joy a spot on the TV game show Estrada or Nada,
in the two-parter Darnell outed.
Throughout the episode, we learn about how Joy dreams of being a celebrity, and she thinks
appearing on this game show is her last chance at that dream.
Her talents, though, are limited.
When appearing on TV leads Darnell's assumed identity to be compromised, more on that later,
they have to go into hiding.
But Crabman risks it all to let Joy live her dream.
And we see Joy show up that smug Eric Estrada.
Of course, none of that would have been possible without a few key assists from Earl, and we
get an idea of how far the relationship has come.
Joy and Darnell go into hiding for a few episodes, but when Joy is living the rich lifestyle
she thought she wanted, it reinforces that she was already happy with what she had.
They do return to their status quo of living in the trailer park in Camden, but even before
all that silliness, we see in this two-parter just how much Joy has in her life.
She has a husband who loves her, two kids who depend on her, and great friends like
Randy and Earl, and her harsh exterior is made less bitter with that knowledge.
And while she's still hard as nails, she can find the space to be happy and appreciate
the life she has.
Life doesn't need to dramatically change for her.
All she needs is a willingness to see what she already has around her.
That's part of the lesson Joy learns, and it's made possible because the people around
her stopped doing bad things and started doing good things.
Good works don't need to give someone a mansion, it just needs to give them a new
way of looking at their life.
My Name is Earl had a number of really strange episodes.
There are brief scenes with live-action puppets of the cast, there are multiple episodes where
the people of Camden are in an episode of Cops, and there's one fun episode where
the opening credits get recut to feature different characters, but these are relatively
short and self-contained.
The most ambitious project of the show is undoubtedly its entire third season.
Set up in the Season 2 finale, The Trial, we see Joy, who had spent much of Season 2 worried
about going to prison after stealing a truck, finally go to trial.
The evidence is tipping against Joy, namely recordings of a terrified Earl calling the
cops on her from the time they were married, so Earl feeling responsible does something
drastic.
Earl sees this as a form of karma, a punishment for all the crimes he's committed, and he
sentenced to two years in prison.
He even asked to give up his list.
On most other shows, this finale is a corner the show would have to write itself out of
in the Season 3 premiere, and we would see Earl leave prison at the end of the episode
to get back to the usual status quo.
Instead, My Name is Earl leaned into this idea of Earl in prison and reinvented itself
for its entire third season.
The third season can effectively be split into three acts.
The first has Earl in prison, the second has Earl in a coma, and the last has Earl as a
married man.
That's obviously a lot to happen, so let's go through this season in more detail.
Earl's life has been improving by working on his list, and as he's done good things,
good things have come to him.
There were always exceptions when times would get tough, and his faith in karma and the
list was tested, but by the end of each episode, he was more or less through the worst of it.
It wasn't until the beginning of Season 3 that we see Earl face his most challenging
test, going to prison.
One of his first real challenges is finding a gang for protection.
I'm just saying, I don't see why I have to shave my head.
It hates in your heart, not in your hair.
Forget it, I'm out.
Earl finds a better way of surviving in prison by deciding to stay himself and keep doing
good things for others.
I realize that no matter how scared I get, I'm going to survive in prison and I have
to do it as myself.
Because my name isn't inmate number 28301-016, my name is Earl.
And while it makes his life in prison better, Earl is still left with the difficult question
of how, even though he's doing good things, he's still trapped in prison.
At first, it seems as though karma will reward him as his good deeds start leading him toward
an early release, with the warden, played by Craig T. Nelson, shaving time off Earl's
sentence for each time he assists the warden in some kind of project.
Earl, you've got six months and ten days left in here.
Now you make this program work and I will give you a certificate for six months off
your sentence.
But when Earl is getting close to his release, the warden screws him over.
I don't know what I would do here without you to cover my ass.
Well, I guess you're going to find out tomorrow.
Thanks again, sir.
A frustrated Earl resorts to making a prison escape.
Unfortunately, the escape attempt is foiled, but when Earl finds out the warden formerly
had a career in porn, in the episode titled, Early Release.
The resolution here doesn't quite work in Earl's mind.
He responded to being screwed over by doing something bad using blackmail and now he was
being rewarded for it.
First Earl is punished for doing something good and then rewarded for doing something
bad.
So what does that say about karma?
In the next episode, Bad Earl, we see Earl revert to his bad ways and he turns his back
on the list.
In this clip, Earl was filling in for a stripper, hence, the outfit.
The episode raises an interesting question of how doing good things can have a selfish
motive.
Earl wants a reward for his good deeds.
As Earl behaves badly, he drifts further from his loved ones and Randy tries to convince
him to change back to good Earl with an earnest speech.
But it doesn't work.
Good things are happening for other people, but for Earl, that isn't enough anymore and
he ends up right where he started in the first episode.
When Earl finds out the person who hit him is Billy, played by Alyssa Milano, he finally
believes he's found his reward.
As a quick rewind, Billy is the ex-girlfriend of Frank, a buddy of Earl's who is locked
up with him.
Part of Earl helping Frank in prison was convincing him to let Billy find a better life without
Frank's bad influence and Earl developed a small crush on Billy only to now be reunited
when her car hits him.
And then karma comes for Billy too.
While in a coma, Earl enters a sitcom fantasy land.
While trapped there, Randy figures that working on list items will save Earl and so Randy
does them in Earl's place.
And eventually, Earl is rescued from his coma in the episode, Killer Ball.
Earl finds Billy and the two get married and even though Earl used the last of his lottery
winnings putting on a prison prom, Billy has come into some insurance money of her own.
So the moral of the story, at least at this point, seems to be that if you persevere with
karma eventually, through the people you helped, you will receive the reward of being married
to Alyssa Milano.
Except the season isn't over yet.
Over the next few episodes, we find out that marrying a woman because she was your coma
fantasy doesn't quite work and Earl realizes that he and Billy are a bad fit.
She suggests the worst in the episode, Girl Earl.
In the episode, Camdenites, while struggling with Billy, Earl works on his list crossing
off Dee Dee, played by Tracy Ashton.
The one-legged woman he ran out on was something of a running joke throughout the series so
seemed like a big deal for him to finally be tackling this list item.
He thought by helping her it would improve his relationship with Billy since this was
a woman he'd rung and maybe that's the reason he was having bad luck with women in general.
All Dee Dee wants is for Earl to understand her by walking a mile in her shoe.
Although Earl thought he would be helping his relationship with Billy by crossing Dee Dee
off his list, it doesn't really help.
In fact, the only thing that really helps here is that Billy and Earl eventually separate,
with Billy adopting a more rustic lifestyle leaving her insurance money with Earl.
So at the end of all this hardship, the only thing even resembling a reward for Earl is
that he's giving the remnants of Billy's insurance money.
And Earl is going to do what he was doing with his lottery winnings and that's help other people.
In addition to the fact that Billy being a reward is pretty creepy, as a person shouldn't
be a prize to be won.
The overarching message of this season is that Earl should not be doing good for any
sort of external reward.
He should be doing it because he's internally motivated to do good for others.
In the first two seasons, you might argue that Earl still imagined he'd get some magical
reward at the end of his list, but the third season establishes that this journey may not
end with some sort of grand reward.
Rather, the reason to do this is not some fabulous cash prize like an even bigger lottery
winnings, but instead feel that personal satisfaction with his life, the joy that comes
from helping others.
At the end of season 3, Earl's life appears the same on the outside, but on the inside
he's grown into a better version of himself.
He's now doing good deeds for a better reason.
You might say that's still kind of selfish because he's getting a good feeling from
helping others, but going from an external reward to an internal one, skipping the need
for material comforts to get that good feeling, has shown Earl a simpler and more effective
way of enjoying his life, and had the series run longer, maybe his drive to do good things
could have been explored on an even deeper level.
But sadly, this giant step in season 3 is the only one we get in the series.
Structurally, the third season was also very different when compared to how other sitcoms
tend to tell long-form stories.
In most of the shows that have done similar things with season-long arcs, they're not
quite as comprehensive as My Name is Earl's.
Some examples would include the second season of Cheers, where we saw Sam and Diane trying
to be a couple, the fourth season of Parks and Rec with Leslie Knope running for office,
and the fifth season of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air with Will and Lisa falling in love.
But the difference between My Name is Earl's season-long arc and these other shows is that,
while most other arcs featured change to a show's premise to create different dynamics
in each episode, telling standalone episodes that simply reflect that new premise, My Name
is Earl used a season-long arc to tell a much bigger, more complicated story.
It tested Earl's commitment to karma and examined what really motivated him.
It helped him realize the difference between a desire to do good and a desire for a reward.
And Earl's understanding of that dynamic changes throughout the season as we see him
in many different circumstances.
And at the end of it all, he grows and evolves as a character in a way that you don't typically
see in other shows.
Season 3 did draw some criticisms from the audience though, particularly the part where
Earl was trapped in a coma.
While referencing classic sitcoms within new ones is a cute idea, later on the show seemed
to acknowledge that certain members of the audience weren't too keen on this meta-joke.
This is a clip referencing that in the fourth season episode, Inside Probe Part 1.
And one interesting artifact of this season is that, when the show had a lengthy break
because of the writers' strike from 2007 to 2008, it came back with a recap ahead of
its return episode delivered by NBC Universal CEO and President Jeff Zucker.
This weird intro was not well-received and even led to a short article on Deadline, an
entertainment industry outlet, asking if Zucker had lost his mind.
It was actually Greg Garcia's idea to have Zucker do this intro, but even so, the intro
would be scrubbed from the DVD release.
And before leaving Season 3 entirely, I do want to highlight a surprisingly good trans
joke.
I think it's important to highlight that joke because, while there are other jokes
in the series that are less kind, including the use of a transphobic slur, this good joke
reveals the capacity to learn and improve from that previous bad behavior, just like
Earl.
Although it should be mentioned that a cis man in a dress is not good casting for a trans
woman, so it's still very much a work in progress.
Just like Earl.
And I have to acknowledge another moment in Season 3 where Randy is encouraging some anti-jose
violence.
As a Jose, this anti-jose nonsense is deeply disappointing and I hope the show will do
better.
Just do better.
There are a lot of flashbacks in the series.
Some of them go on for nearly a whole episode.
An early example being Season 1's Y2K episode where we see how Earl, Joy, Randy, Darnell,
and Donny, played by Silas Weir Mitchell, handle the impending technological apocalypse
that never was.
My Name is Earl is a show defined by the past of its characters.
Earl's past of wrongdoings is an obvious one, but in the case of other members of the
cast, their pasts are also a big part of their characters.
Catalina is a character whose past gradually gets revealed in the first half of this series.
Not just that she entered the US illegally, but also that, before she became a hotel maid,
she worked as a stripper at Club Chubby, a job she goes back to in the Season 2 episode
Jump for Joy.
And in Season 2's mailbox, we get a slow burn reveal where we find out Catalina has
killed someone.
This is followed up in Season 3's The Frank Factor.
This is a nice example of continuity on the show.
If Earl's story is about him realizing the impact of his past on his present, the same
is true for other characters too.
We learn more about Catalina's past when she is deported, and Earl and Randy have to
rescue her in the Season 2 two-parter south of the border.
Although she's sent to what we're told is her hometown in Mexico, later on in the
series it's revealed that Catalina is from La Paz, which is the capital of Bolivia.
This is an example of the show playing fast and loose with its continuity.
It's pretty common for sitcoms to place comedy over continuity, but it's a bit more noticeable
in My Name is Earl, where a character's history is the basis of so much of what they
do in the series, and the show certainly doesn't help itself with the many flashbacks it includes.
That all said, there are enough consistent facts to make sense of these characters'
history.
Regardless of whether it's her home country or not, Mexico is where Catalina is deported
to.
And Randy marries Catalina so she can come back to America.
Of course, as we already talked about, it doesn't work out for them.
And it's around here that Catalina's character seems to drift around a bit, as if there was
no definite plans for her.
While she's a fun addition to the cast and an interesting character, the key to making
her interesting is often done by explaining her history.
We see this whole truth for Darnell as well, a character who is very mysterious in the
early seasons, as the only clue we get to his history is that he's in the witness
relocation program and his name used to be Harry Monroe.
It isn't until the show's fourth season we finally get some answers as to who Harry
Monroe is in the two-parter Darnell outed.
While, as mentioned earlier, a lot of this two-parter is dedicated to Joy trying to show
up Erika Strada and prove she can be a celebrity, what complicates the plan is Darnell appearing
on national television and having his cover identity blown.
In My Name is Alias, a few episodes later, we get a more complete answer as to who Darnell
is when his secret agent father, played by Danny Glover, comes to make amends with him.
Darnell left his life as a government assassin when he was asked to kill a child.
When he testified against the agency in front of a subcommittee, the agency wanted revenge
and Darnell had to go into witness protection.
While this history for Darnell wasn't planned from the beginning, the show's creators
always knew he'd have a wild backstory.
These revelations do contradict the fact that we saw Darnell's family in the season one
episode Joy's Wedding, though that's explained away as them being other people in the witness
protection program.
Both Darnell and Catalina are their most interesting when their pasts confront them
in the present, along with the show's many flashbacks and Earl's quests.
This is how change over time is represented in the series, and it gives the impression
that these characters are more rich and detailed than what little we may see them do within
the context of an episode.
There's always the subtle suggestion that there's more to these characters than meets
the eye, and some part of their past is just waiting to leap out from the shadows.
Catalina and Darnell are both similar to Earl in that they're happier in the present because
of the choices they've made to live happier lives.
They certainly aren't perfect, but the worst conditions of their past are a reminder of
why they chose to leave their old lives in Bolivia and as a secret agent, respectively.
They were miserable in both places.
Much like Earl making a list of wrongdoings and making up for them, the changes Catalina
and Darnell make were a challenge.
Leaving a life behind, no matter how you do it, is always difficult, but part of the show's
optimism comes from that willingness to make a try against difficult odds, and the courage
it takes to remake your own life.
Camden County is one of those fictional places in a TV show that never gets a precise location
in the real world.
The closest we get to any confirmation is that it definitely is not the same Camden
County in New Jersey.
Its local accent and complete lack of snow at Christmas time suggest it's somewhere
in the southern US, but it's hard to be more precise than that.
We can contrast this to the vaguely named Big City in the season 1 episode, Stole P's
HD Cart, where we see Earl struggle to get any justice from a big corporation trying
to muscle a local hot dog cart out of Camden.
That Earl learns an important truth.
This episode has a fun message about how corporations exploit labor and that real restorative justice
involves going Robin Hood on a big corporation, but there's another larger message here
about how the people of Camden, especially Earl and his friends, exist outside the world
of white shirts and ties.
This needs to be understood as not a complete rejection of living in a society, as we see
Earl learn the value of having a functioning government in the season 1 episode didn't
pay taxes.
Earl's vision of a more just world is one where people help other people, and the world
of big business, represented by the big city, is a rejection of that ethos.
It embraces selfishness and the exploitation of others.
Camden doesn't feel like a real place because it operates on such a heightened sense
of reality, which is probably why it doesn't feel unrealistic for Earl's change of heart
to have such a wide ripple effect.
But it cuts in other ways too, such as in the season 2 episode, Van Hickey, where Earl's
longtime friend, Ralph, played by Giovanni Rubisi, threatens to kill him.
The impact of this dynamic is explained well in the DVD audio commentary for that episode.
Camden is a place where some scary stuff goes down, and you can believe characters
when they say they're going to try to kill someone.
But in that heightened sense of reality, there's also the possibility to do some good.
As we go through the series, Earl's good deeds create new friends wherever he goes,
helping shape the community into one where everybody helps each other rather than compete
against each other.
But this isn't just a rejection of the capitalist mindset.
It goes a step further by presenting Camden, and Earl's social circle, as a meeting place
for all types of people.
In season 2, with the episode Sticks and Stones, we get a great example when Earl tries to
make up for teasing a girl who had facial hair in school and then finds himself in a
small community of circus performers.
As Earl learns more about the performers as people, he also learns to identify with them
when he's reminded he was teased for having Harry Nipples as a kid.
The episode ends with Earl facing his fear and going off the high dive with his shirt
off, and he's joined by the performers who refuse to hide away in their private community.
It's about learning to have some pride, even if you're a little different, and that
we're all a little different in our own ways.
It's a pretty basic message, but the series is more than just bringing in people for an
episode to say, hey, they're decent people too.
A lot of these characters appear again throughout the series, much in the way Kenny became a
series regular after the premiere.
These characters don't just show up to teach Earl a lesson, they become active members
of his community.
We see another example in season 1's Teacher Earl, where Earl teaches English as a second
language to make up for all the times he's made fun of people with accents.
Actually something ironic here about the actor who plays Neskabar a lob-lop, Abdul-e-Ngom,
he actually speaks at least five languages, or six depending on who you believe in the
DVD commentaries, or maybe seven if you believe everything you read on the internet.
Although the depiction has some of these people borders on the offensive, the series seems
to develop in its depictions of these characters the same way Earl learns to be more sensitive
to people who are different.
Much like the circus performers, Neskabar becomes a regular in the series in a lot of
fun and creative ways.
When the series begins, Earl's concept of us is just him and Randy, but as it progresses,
that us grows to include so many more people, not just the obvious editions of Joy, Darnell,
and Catalina, but also the people he would place in the very undesirable bucket of them.
And importantly, not just to Earl, a lot of these people who become part of the us label
are often marginalized by society with little access to power, keeping them perpetually
trapped under the label of them.
Immigrants and people born a little different have every right to be a part of our communities.
Any us worth making is one that includes these people too.
In the season two episode, our cops is on, we get a sense of how big the us is getting
with numerous cameos from the people of Camden.
A nice bit of subtext in this episode is that even though their lives and relationships
weren't being improved by Earl in his list since the episode predates it, it does show
us that they were all in community with one another already.
They were just either strangers or hostile to one another.
The fact that they're all sitting here laughing, drinking, and watching this episode together
reinforces the transformative nature of doing good deeds and the impact it has on the community.
In the season three episode, Camdenites, when Earl has to untip Joy's trailer, which he
drugingly tipped over a few episodes earlier, he's assisted by all the people of Camden
he's helped out over the years.
When I was doing bad things, no one would help me with anything, but now that I was
doing good things, I had lots of friends willing to pitch in.
And they prove that by working together, they can make their whole community a better place.
And that doing good is infectious.
Now, everybody just calm down.
On May 14th, 2009, the final episode of My Name Is Earl aired, although it wasn't meant
to be the finale.
Titled Dodge's Dad, the episode centers around Joy finding out that Dodge, her eldest
son, isn't actually the son of Little Chubby, played by Norm Macdonald.
It turns out that Earl, who raised Dodge thinking he was another man's son, is actually Dodge's
biological father.
No.
Yep.
No.
If anything, you did me, I was drunk.
This is one of the dangers of hooking up at a costume party.
But even more shocking than the Dodge revelation is that Earl Jr. isn't actually Darnell's
son.
These three DNAs match, that means it's you and the boys, which makes this one mine
and it doesn't match any of those.
What does that mean?
It means I'm not Earl Jr.'s father.
And the last line we ever hear from the series is Joy saying,
Now, everybody just calm down.
And we got a giant message saying, to be continued.
Only it wasn't.
Although My Name is Earl premiered to very strong ratings, it gradually slipped as the
seasons rolled on.
For its fourth season, it had fallen to 60 second place in the ratings, Far Cry from
its debut at 22nd.
But it is strange that it was cancelled while other NBC shows such as Chuck and Parks and
Recreation, both with lower ratings, were both renewed.
Whatever the reason, going into that episode, creator Greg Garcia was under the impression
that this would not be the final season.
Codd completely flat-footed, the only sign that this might be the final episode is the
production company tag at the end where we see a partially shaved Jason Lee.
Even that suggests that maybe they're not entirely done yet.
After being cancelled by NBC, there were talks with several networks to pick up the series,
with TBS being a strong contender.
But ultimately, the cost of the series to fulfill its creative vision was just too much
for any other network to sign on.
And so Earl's ending would remain, at least for now, untold.
In a 2013 Reddit Ask Me Anything, Greg Garcia was asked how the series was meant to end.
This answer remains our best look at what the future held for Earl Hickey.
We never really got the chance to fully figure it out, but the talk in the writers room was
that Earl Jr's dad was going to be someone famous, like Dave Chappelle or Lil Jon, someone
that came to town on tour and Joy slept with.
But when we got cancelled, we never got the chance to figure it out.
I was worried about doing a cliffhanger, but I asked NBC if it was safe to do one at the
end of the season and they told me it was.
I guess it wasn't.
I had always had an ending to Earl, and I'm sorry I didn't get the chance to see it happen.
You've got a show about a guy with a list, so not seeing him finish it is a bummer, but
the truth is he wasn't ever going to finish the list.
The basic idea of the ending was that, while he was stuck on a really hard list item, he
was going to start to get frustrated that he was never going to finish it.
Then he runs into someone who had a list of their own and Earl was on it.
They needed to make up for something bad they had done to Earl.
He asks them where they got the idea for making a list and they tell him that someone came
to them with a list and that person got the idea from someone else.
Earl eventually realizes that his list started a chain reaction of people with lists and
that he's finally put more good into the world than bad.
So at that point, he was going to tear up his list and go live his life.
Talk into the sunset of Freeman with good karma.
There are some interesting post scripts to My Name is Earl's cancellation, such as
the show not being the only thing that was cancelled.
Anyone who purchased the first DVD set of the series would have seen this fancy little
flyer advertising a My Name is Earl comic coming from Oni Press.
When asked about this, Greg Garcia explained that this project was abandoned because he
would have lacked the creative control over it he would have liked.
One project that followed My Name is Earl that did come to fruition was Garcia's next
series, Raising Hope.
Garcia described the inspiration for the series saying,
The main inspiration for Raising Hope was the anger over the fact that they cancelled
My Name is Earl.
I wanted to do another single camera comedy so I could quickly hire the same crew that
I had loved working with for four years.
I was interested in doing a domestic comedy so I thought of the most twisted way I could
of putting a baby in a house full of people that had no idea what to do with it.
In addition to bringing back his crew, a number of cast members from My Name is Earl
made cameos throughout the series' run.
There were also some cute nods to the abrupt cancellation of My Name is Earl, such as one
of the characters on Raising Hope revealing that they were a fan.
It would take a whole video to list every reference to My Name is Earl on Raising Hope,
but I did at least want to mention the season 3 episode making the band which almost felt
like an alternate reality episode of My Name is Earl.
And that's more or less that we got from the residents of Camden County following the
show's cancellation.
Jason Lee did say in a 2020 interview that he was interested in giving the show a proper
wrap-up though so far no concrete plans have emerged.
While working on My Name is Earl, Jason Lee also starred in the first Alvin and the Chipmunks
live-action movie as Dave Seville, a role he'd reprise in its various squeak-walls.
He also appeared on The Memphis Beat and Up All Night.
He's largely stepped away from acting in recent years though he's expressed interest
in reviving older projects he's worked on such as mall rats and of course My Name
is Earl.
Ethan Suppley has appeared in a number of roles on TV and film after the end of the
series including roles in The Wolf of Wall Street, Dog, and The Ranch.
In 2014, he reunited with former My Name is Earl co-star Jamie Pressley in the series
Jennifer Falls.
Jamie Pressley has worked on a number of projects following the cancellation of My Name is Earl.
In addition to the short-lived Jennifer Falls with Ethan Suppley, Pressley also appeared
on Welcome to Flash, I Hate My Teenage Daughter, and she appeared on seven seasons of the series
Mom.
After My Name is Earl, Eddie Steeples appeared in the TV series The Guest Book and the movies
Hot Seat and Jujitsu, currently scheduled to appear in the upcoming movie Fallen Cards.
Since My Name is Earl, Nadine Velasquez appeared on the series The League and the movies Snitch
and Flight.
Most recently she appeared as a part of the principal cast in the ABC series Queens.
My Name is Earl is an unfinished story of redemption and in a way, that story could
never be finished.
Throughout the series we see Earl make right the wrong deeds of the past, but we also see
him make mistakes along the way, having to add new items to his list.
It's likely that the work on the list will never be completed and the desire to be an
ideal person is not going to be completed by Earl himself but will have to be a quest
picked up by the people around him.
As you can tell from that imaginative finale from Greg Garcia, that was the whole point
of the series, that doing good doesn't end with some ultimate reward waiting for
you but rather doing good makes the world a better place and that doing good inspires
others to do the same, with your reward being able to be part of that better world you all
share together.
It expands the idea of doing good from a solitary exercise to something more communal.
We aren't waiting for an Earl to come save us because we can all start on our own lists
right now and we can all make the world better together.
The cancellation of My Name is Earl will probably always sting because there's so much more
growth we could have seen in the series and ending with a cliffhanger is usually not
a good way to leave off characters.
Even if Earl was never going to finish that list, we could have at least seen his new
struggles with fatherhood or Darnell's changing relationship with the boy he thought was his
biological son or even just Joy tracking down Earl Jr's real father.
These are the lingering questions that could use a few more episodes or a movie to wrap
up.
But Four Seasons is a lot more than most other shows get and in that four there's still
a lot of good stuff to be found about the value of trying to be a better person.
And it's the trying that's the key.
No one will ever be perfect and Earl certainly never is.
But his example shows us that anyone, even a dirtbag with no education and a lengthy
rap sheet, can try to make the world a better place.
All it takes is believing in karma and starting with a list.
This will probably come as a surprise to anyone who's watched these retrospectives but I
usually don't have to go out of my way to find a series.
Most shows that are classics are found streaming pretty much anywhere and special features
and documentaries and whatnot take a bit of digging but can be found with some effort.
My Name is Earl was the first time I actually had to track down physical media in the form
of old DVDs basically doing a lot more work just so I would have as much information as
possible to put together this video.
With that in mind I would like to extend an extra special thanks to my Patrons because
of their support I was able to do this without any serious financial burden and you can see
their lovely names going up the screen now if you would like to join them and have early
access to videos like this and also finance some tougher ones that take a bit more effort
to put together you can join my Patreon.
In addition to getting your name in the credits you'll get early access to videos plus lots
of other fun bonuses and extras as they come.
If you would like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion you can like comment
subscribe or hit the bell for notifications and if you're thinking about what kind of
comment to put below how about what is the first item you would put on your list of bad
deeds you need to make up for.
Thank you all so much for watching.
