Geopolitics is a tough subject to wrap your head around. Players, terms, alliances, interests, influences, and spheres of hegemony are difficult for the average person to parse.
It's important stuff to know, but the armchair analysis done without taking the time to learn about a complex situation you often see on YouTube creates more confusion than clarity.
In his recent video, The Political Alchemy of the Levant, Part 2, Black Pigeon Speaks gives us what might be one of the poorest attempts at geopolitical analysis I've seen on YouTube in the last few days.
But instead of just pointing out all the specific problems in his video to show you how wrong he is, I'd like to instead try to use it as a basis for understanding what a bad geopolitical analysis video looks like.
As a brief refresher before we begin, this video takes a look at the chemical weapon attack on Doma, Syria on April 7th, 2018.
At the time, it was held by the rebel group Jayash al-Islam, and important to the context of Black Pigeon Speaks' video is that the chemical weapon attack came on the heels of President Trump declaring that US forces would be withdrawing from Syria a few days earlier.
The attack on Doma was widely attributed to the Assad regime, and was seen as a potential trigger for the Americans to attack Assad's forces, possibly toppling the regime.
Anyone who may have noticed that this video is in fact a Part 2 should note that Part 1 is not about the same chemical weapon attack.
Part 1 actually looks at the attack in 2017 and reaches a similar poorly argued position.
I want to focus on Part 2 because it's not only more recent, but it's actually much worse and makes much more egregious mistakes, so it's really just a better example overall.
Although Part 1 is terrible too, for the record.
Skepticism is a useful tool when it comes to understanding official government statements, but it's important to apply it consistently.
In the case of this video, Black Pigeon Speaks offers a healthy dose of skepticism to any statement made by the United States government, which is, generally speaking, a good idea.
However, he's far more credulous of any claims that come from the Russian government.
However, there has been no independent verification of the SAMS report, though the US State Department believes the report is credible.
The Kremlin, for one, rejects the very notion that there was a chemical attack on the city.
He mistakenly dismisses the SAMS report, but that doesn't quite excuse how he ignores the fact that that one report was filed in conjunction with the Syrian activist group, the White Helmets.
And there were also independent verifications from the Duma Coordination Committee and the Gota Medical Center, both operating within Syria.
But here's where the selective skepticism really comes in.
Throughout the video, Black Pigeon Speaks believes just about any claim that comes from the Russian government.
Aside from the fact that this supposed attack was to happen in Dora, not Duma, which are two different cities, the Russian government's evidence is secret, and we just have to take their word for it.
I'm not exactly sure why we should trust Russia, a long-time ally of Assad, to be honest actors here.
If you question one government's claims but swallow whole those of another government, you're being selective with your skepticism and trading one type of propaganda for the other.
No one can tell you what a world leader is thinking.
You can, at best, guess based on inferences.
Not understanding the actions of an actor doesn't mean they're acting irrationally. It just means you don't understand their motivations.
In Black Pigeon Speaks' video, he remarks that Syrian President, or rather dictator, Bashar al-Assad has nothing to gain.
The chances that the Syrian military actually carried out the gas attack in northern Syria are pretty much zero.
The Syrian government has absolutely nothing to gain from such an attack.
It's based on the presumption that Assad would not risk a chemical weapons attack because he would fear a reprisal from the world community, in particular the United States.
How can Black Pigeon Speaks know Assad feels this way? The answer is, he doesn't. Well, he doesn't know and Assad doesn't feel that way.
First, let's answer Black Pigeon Speaks' question about what Assad would gain from a chemical weapon attack on Douma.
Aside from the obvious deaths of his opponents, chemical weapons are effective tools of terror that would lead to a quicker surrender.
In fact, that's what happened the next day after the chemical weapon attack was launched.
If Assad was trying to force the rebels to surrender sooner, it worked.
Not that I know Assad's strategy, of course, that's just an inference by a clear case of cause and effect.
And the idea of Assad using chemical weapons as a tool of terror is something anyone could have read about in this article.
Here's an excerpt.
And this is exactly what they were intended to do. They were meant to strike fear into rebels and send the message that the war was over.
This article, Black Pigeon Speaks, highlights himself in this very video.
Maybe if he had read it, he might have seen an argument for why Assad would use chemical weapons, but instead he just flashed up a headline, giving us the illusion that he actually reads his sources.
And as a small aside, this article was actually published in 2017 and responded to that particular attack.
It's as though he can't even be bothered to read the date on the article he's citing, never mind the actual article's content.
And to anticipate the counter that Assad would never risk the ire of the international community, I have to ask with all sincerity,
why should he believe that the international community would do anything other than slap him on the wrist?
According to Human Rights Watch, chemical weapons have been used 85 times in Syria from August 21, 2013 to February 25, 2018.
In nearly every instance where the aggressor using chemical weapons could be identified, it was found that Assad's forces were responsible.
So in what way does the evidence suggest Assad is timid about using chemical weapons, or that he might fear the response from the international community?
There's plenty of evidence to suggest that Assad's forces are responsible for the chemical weapon attack, which is far more persuasive than saying you don't think Assad would want to use chemical weapons.
This is one of the tougher things to catch as it requires the viewer to do some research of their own.
A good rule of thumb is that if someone starts talking about anything that requires some degree of expertise and they don't cite a reputable source or they don't have any credentials, there's a good chance they're talking out of their ass.
In this case, anytime Black Pigeon Speaks discusses chemical weapons, you can be certain he doesn't have a clue as to how they work.
Here's a nice example.
Presumably, rebels could have gotten chemical weapons anywhere and used them.
This sounds logical if you don't know how chemical weapons work.
There are some highly technical articles I'll link in the description box you can check out on your own.
But to simplify it, chemical weapons aren't stored for years in giant barrels the way you might stockpile guns or ammunition.
In many cases, the chemical precursors that make the weapons have to be mixed in precise amounts before use.
Certain types of chemical weapons could also degrade over time.
Even if rebels were to capture a chemical weapons facility, they would not only need to capture scientists to do the proper mixing for them, they'd need to ensure none of the equipment was damaged and they'd have to use the chemicals before they degraded and became unusable.
The shelf-life of sarin, a nerve agent used in some of Syria's deadlier chemical weapons attacks, is particularly short, measured as low as a few weeks if poorly made and as high as a year or two when mixed by highly trained scientists.
Keep in mind that much of the territory currently held by rebels goes back many years, and by now it's reasonable to think that even if they had sarin, it probably wouldn't have lasted this long.
So rebels happening upon a stockpile of sarin, or more likely its precursors, wouldn't necessarily be able to even use it.
Never mind opting to use it on themselves, which in Black Pigeon Speaks' mind is extremely likely.
Who hasn't won a war by gassing yourself, right?
I highlight the exception of chemical weapon use in Syria that really proves the rule here.
Outside of the Syrian regime, the only other group documented to have used chemical weapons is ISIS.
In this case, they aren't using chemical weapons stolen from the Syrian government though, but rather through a chemical weapons program that operated from Mosul until 2017 when it was retaken by the Iraqi government.
So really, the only players who are using Syria's stockpile of chemical weapons are the Syrian regime.
There are plenty of specific problems with this video, such as bad history and some really disturbing water carrying for Bashar al-Assad, but I wanted to make this video about more than how ridiculous someone like Black Pigeon Speaks is.
I hope the next time you sit in front of a geopolitical commentary video on YouTube, consider some of the points I brought up.
Is the presenter using selective skepticism? Is the presenter somehow reading the mind of someone instead of using material evidence?
Are they speaking with a presumed level of expertise they haven't demonstrated they genuinely have?
These are some of the calling cards of frauds and fools. Don't let yourself be led by either.
For some good examples of geopolitical analysis, I'd recommend the Caspian Report on YouTube.
And if you enjoy podcasts, The World Next Week and Vox's Worldly both offer accessible world news and are published weekly.
The conflict in Syria is very complicated and has a lot of players in it.
Anyone who tries to analyze things and boils it down to the simple sound bites of one side or the other often has an agenda or narrative they're trying to push.
If you really care about this conflict and based on the plight of the Syrian people, it's easy to understand why someone would care, it's truly heartbreaking.
I implore you to take the time and the considerable effort of actually reading and studying up on this situation, listening to voices from within Syria, reading some of the history of the Assad regime, both of Bashar al-Assad and his father Hafez al-Assad,
and realize that the Syrian people have been fighting for freedom for a very long time.
And they deserve our support and our encouragement and I hope one day the Syrian people can have a government that is truly representative of them and that they can live in peace.
Thanks for watching.
