This video includes discussion of people being hit, and in some cases killed, by cars.
I won't be using any footage or images of people being hit, but some of the discussion
will get intense.
On July 4th, on the I-5 freeway in Seattle, Washington, two Black Lives Matter protesters,
Summer Taylor and Diaz Love, were hit by a car that had driven through their protest.
The collision killed Taylor and left Love with critical injuries.
The driver, DeWitt Kalit, was charged with vehicular homicide, vehicular assault, and
reckless driving.
The I-5 freeway had been shut down by police at the time, as it had over the previous 19
days protests that had also taken place on the freeway.
Police suspect the driver entered the I-5 freeway from an exit ramp along Stewart Street.
He would then have needed to perform a U-turn and driven roughly one quarter of a mile before
reaching the protesters.
As the driver approached the 30 or so protesters, he drove around the two cars set up as barricades
and then hit both Taylor and Love.
The collision occurred at roughly 1.40 am.
After the collision, the driver slowed his car before driving off when several of the
other protesters approached him.
He was later arrested by police.
The driver reportedly was not intoxicated at the time, according to a field test performed
by police, but in court documents it was stated that he was dealing with an untreated addiction
issue involving Percocet, a substance that appears to be crystal meth, and several implements
commonly used to smoke illegal substances were found in his car.
According to police, the driver expressed concern for the well-being of the two people
he hit.
Kalit's lawyer has claimed that there was nothing political about the incident.
With the most charity I can muster, this could be considered an incident of reckless driving,
possibly under the influence of drugs, leading to the death and severe injury of two people.
As someone looking at the evidence, it's difficult to ascribe any specific attempt
to Kalit.
According to the individual who first published video of this incident to Twitter and who
was a witness at the scene, the driver was acting deliberately.
But something else happened after this horrific moment.
The footage of the accident went viral, and an apparatus of conservative spin kicked into
gear.
After the footage of the collision was posted to Twitter, the tweet was spread by Ian Miles
Chong.
He made a series of tweets claiming the protesters were responsible for getting hit.
It is illegal to block an interstate, plain and simple.
Police say that the driver involved in the Seattle I-5 hit is being interviewed and will
likely be charged with aggravated assault and a hit and run.
But the fault is of the protesters for blocking the interstate.
He also went on to spread misinformation about the incident.
The two people who got hit look like they ran back into the path of the car after it
swerved to the left to avoid the other protesters.
Why the hell?
The problem with the protest group, and you can watch the full two-hour livestream, is
that they moved on to the freeway without informing the police about their whereabouts,
so police couldn't properly seal off the area because they received little notice.
Not only were police aware, they had barricaded entrances to the freeway.
These protests on the I-5 had been going on for 19 days, and according to this tweet,
they had closed the highway nearly two hours before the incident.
Ian, like some other people we'll be looking at, is determined to present a version of
events where a driver who sees cars parked on a freeway surrounded by a group of 30 people
has no expectation of even slowing down to a safe speed while passing.
We saw similar takes from our dear friend in a beanie, Tim Pool.
Sad to see anyone lose their life, we need to do better to teach our kids not to hang
out on interstate highways at night while wearing all black around a curve and with
vehicles blocking view of you and your friends.
Hopefully Tim gave us a video to offer some more nuance to his position.
At night, wearing all black.
Several protesters dressed in non-black outfits are clearly visible, and Summer Taylor, seen
right here, is clearly not wearing an all-black outfit.
Also, there are, like, 30 people here.
No lights at night.
There are, of course, lights all over the freeway.
Maybe he means the protesters should have lights, but this is me guessing because all
he ever says is, no lights.
Regardless though, there's clearly enough lights to see the protesters from a distance,
as evidenced by this camera showing us the protesters from a distance.
Think about this.
You're on a highway.
You're coming around a curve.
All of a sudden, before you realize it because it's at night and there's no lights, there's
two vehicles in the middle of the road.
What do you do?
This guy swerved out of the way.
When he swerved onto the shoulder, a ton of people were standing there.
So what did he do?
He swerved to the left.
Pop, pop.
And he hit two people, sending them flying, one of which is now dead.
I can't believe they're charging this guy for this.
The very idea that 30 people were hidden behind two vehicles and that the driver couldn't
have possibly seen these two vehicles blocking off the road until the last second is absurd.
The band Tim goes on about was roughly 600 feet away.
That the highway had been empty for a quarter of a mile should have perhaps tipped him off.
That something was up.
Tim's standard incompetence aside, we get to the real heart of this video later on.
Am I going to blame this guy because he was driving his car on the highway?
That's ridiculous.
If anything, the protesters should be held to some degree criminally, criminally liable
for blocking a highway.
It's a crime.
Why aren't they getting in trouble?
This is, of course, not the first time Tim has lied about footage.
They're yelling, pop his effing tires and you hear them deflating his tires and then
he slowly speeds up and they all start screaming and banging on his, actually, I'm sorry,
they start banging on his vehicle first.
Then he slowly speeds up.
I don't want to say speeding, like he's inching forward and then people start going
yelling.
And then once he's clear of protesters, he just goes and takes off.
That's it.
Tim went on to play the shakiest, least helpful footage he could find, but if you actually
look up the video he cites, you'll see that this part in particular didn't make it into
Tim's video.
That looks a little dangerous to me.
There's also no footage of what happened before the vehicle was stopped by protesters.
So the story, in Tim's mind, only starts when we see the vehicle surrounded by protesters.
How it got there and in what way cannot possibly be inferred because all protesters are liars.
And evil.
Welcome to the modern era, where the activists will obviously lie about everything.
Man evil people, I tell you what.
I should offer a brief correction here.
I used to think Tim was just a fool who had no idea what he was talking about.
My position has evolved and I'll issue a correction right here.
I think he's deliberately misrepresenting the facts here.
He's just not particularly bright in how he goes about it, or at least he has a very serious
contempt for his audience and doesn't think they'll care that he's so transparently
lying to them.
But social media provocateurs are not the only people downplaying vehicular assault.
Tucker Carlson's Daily Wire has previously released a compilation of protesters being
accosted by vehicles, played to the tune of Ludacris's Move, Bitch.
Daily caller writer Blake Neff also published article with his headline and subheader.
Anti-Columbus Day protesters threatened to assault driver get run over.
White man overruns indigenous peoples with superior technology.
Blake Neff, for the curious, was formerly the head writer for Tucker Carlson's Fox
News show, but recently resigned after he was discovered to have participated in an
explicitly racist message board for the last 10 years, often inserting the racist messaging
from that board into scripts for Tucker Carlson.
And of course, I would be remiss not to mention the death of Heather Heyer, who was murdered
at the Charlottesville rally when a car ran into a group of counter-protesters.
This incident was similarly spun by media figures and other assorted internet buffoons.
Here's a brief example of YouTuber Carl Benjamin showing us his intellectual metal.
It looks like what happened is that he was shocked by seeing the car crash happening
and had a heart attack.
I know, I know, it's horrible, but it does seem a very dramatic reaction to a car crash.
It's more than the alt-right being blamed for someone having a heart attack.
Someone in tremendously bad physical condition has heart attack and suddenly the alt-right
has murdered someone.
Mike Brown, a police detective for King County, which Seattle is a part of, posted a meme
to his Facebook after Summer Taylor and Diaz Love were struck by a car.
All lives splatter, keep your ass off the road.
Brown is currently on leave and the family of Summer Taylor has called for his firing.
All this spin, all these distortions are done with the express purpose of changing the narrative.
It wants people to believe that the protesters who are hit by cars are not victims.
That they are either liars and frauds or somehow deserving of any injury or death that
meets them while they are trying to exercise their right to protest.
The reactions commentators like this generate on social media are particularly ghoulish.
Who else here feels sorry for the driver and any damages to their car?
And I honestly don't care if those idiots were removed from the gene pool.
They were in the middle of I-5 at night, the height of stupid.
I call this self-defense.
Why are they blocking the road?
What are they going to do to you if you stop?
This guy didn't want to find out.
No one wants to get ripped from their cars from the mob anymore.
We've had enough.
The effect on the audience, I think, is clear.
Working in tandem with messages describing protesters as violent rioters, particularly
in the context of this story when the only violence expressed towards the driver came
after he had just run over two people, is part of the goals of these anti-protest commentaries.
The idea is to vilify the protesters and their message, and they'll ignore, distort,
and lie about whatever facts they need to do that.
Speaking to the New York Times, Ari E. Weil, the deputy research director at the Chicago
Project on Security and Threats at the University of Chicago, described this growing culture
of sharing memes about protesters being run over.
It's not just an extremist thing here.
There are social media circles online where people are sharing these and joking about
them because they disagree with the protests and their methods.
Sharing memes and joking about running over people can lead to real danger.
This was echoed by Josh Lepowski, a senior researcher at the Counter Extremism Project.
There has been an increasing amount of propaganda online calling for vehicular attacks on protesters,
targeting the Black Lives Matter movement in particular.
It is being used as a form of intimidation against them to get them to halt their protests.
According to research done by Weil, there have been at least 66 car attacks across the
United States since George Floyd was killed by Minneapolis police on May 25th, 2020.
Of those 66, 24 have led to charges being filed, while 4 have been ruled accidents.
Perhaps most disturbingly, 7 of these incidents involved police officers.
Car attacks have become an increasingly common topic in recent years, and in response, some
state legislatures have proposed bills that would protect drivers who unintentionally
harm or kill protesters.
Although there are some Facebook memes to the contrary, so far none of these bills have
actually been passed.
There is an awkward conversation to be had regarding the safety of protesters, whether
it be staying as visible as possible at night or effectively communicating threats to others.
Many protests do have earnest discussions and big precautions to keep people safe, and
I think good natured criticism on how that can be improved should be welcomed.
But a sharp line needs to be drawn between constructive criticism to improve protests
and criticism that's designed to undermine and discredit entire movements.
When people such as Tim Poole or Mike Brown tell people to get off the streets, it isn't
out of concern for the safety of protesters, it's because they want to discredit the
very message behind the movement.
When it comes to the individuals driving cars who crash through these protests, they're
presented as victims of circumstance and not held to nearly the same level of responsibility
of the protesters.
Another thing lost in this discussion is that the safety of the protesters is not the only
issue at play here.
This is also about free expression.
In the week leading up to me writing this script, free expression and cancel culture
came up in the context of people being booted off very large platforms, such as the recent
removal of Stefan Molyneux and Richard Spencer from YouTube.
Every time this happens to a conservative, or in this case, white nationalist, there's
an outcry from the right about how cancel culture is out of control and the left is
constantly attacking the free marketplace of ideas.
The free marketplace of ideas is an incredibly apt name, in that it functions the same way
a free economic market works in society today.
The lack of regulation creates the guise of a lack of bias, ignoring how some people have
been left out of the conversation, and that the playing field is most certainly not even.
Taylor and Love, much like other protesters, were exercising the right of free expression,
but instead of racing to their defense, people who supposedly care about free expression
are bending over backwards to blame them for being hit by a car.
You probably wouldn't even know the names of these two people had one of them not died
and the other been seriously injured.
In much the same way Black Lives Matter only gained traction when thousands of people took
to the streets, demanding the attention of the mainstream media.
The opposition to Black Lives Matter only needs to call up the New York Times to get
some free space in the op-ed section of one of the most prominent outlets in the world
to say it's time to call them the military to bust the heads of these protesters.
That is the disparity between people who have power in the marketplace of ideas and
those who don't.
One side of the argument needs hundreds of thousands of people in the streets, the other
side needs a phone call, and suddenly their message is in front of millions.
Someone who truly cares about free expression should be most concerned about protecting
the expression and sometimes even holding up the expression of those with the least
amount of access to that free marketplace of ideas.
And this access cannot be entangled from the history of oppression that has denied people
access to these spaces.
Today we probably have more female commentators now than any other point in recent history
in the English-speaking world.
In the past, women commenting on important issues would have to write under a man's
name, like George Eliot had to do in the 19th century.
Or if they did openly brush up against serious subjects, they would have to issue weird prefaces
apologizing for daring to talk about workers' rights, which Elizabeth Gaskell had to do
in her novel, Mary Barton.
I know nothing of political economy or the theories of trade.
I have tried to write truthfully, and if my accounts agree or clash with any system,
the agreement or disagreement is unintentional.
Although it should be said that things have improved since the 19th century, things have
not quite reached parity, as seen by any woman who has recently tried to speak out about
video games or some other important issues insecure men have a vested interest in, and
things get dramatically worse for people who are even further marginalized, such as a trans
woman being harassed for daring to appear on the cover of Sports Illustrated.
While cancel culture is an interesting debate, it's not a debate that's happening on
even terms.
Conservatives seem chiefly concerned with protecting their own rather than broadening
the free marketplace of ideas to include people who have been historically denied access.
If you don't want to protect protesters from being run over by cars, you don't care
about protecting someone's free expression at all.
Over the past scene of Summer Taylor, their family held a brief press conference.
No matter how much I might want to ask them to stay safe during protests, they would just
say, Mom, if you are black in this country, it isn't even safe to be alive.
And they were right.
So even in death, we want Summer's passion as an ally to continue lifting up black lives
in Seattle and all over our country.
There is a lot left to do.
Thank you.
Diaz Love is currently recovering from their injuries.
They released a statement on Facebook reading, I'm alive and stable in a lot of pain.
I cannot believe Summer was murdered.
If they thought this murder would make us back down, they are very wrong.
My FB is filled with death threats.
That and only being able to use one hand has me going slow.
I deeply appreciate and feel all the love y'all are sending me.
I've included links to the GoFundMe pages for Summer's family and Diaz Love below.
This was a tough video to do, especially since many of the details are not yet available.
This case has not gone to trial, and the driver accused of the crime has not even been arraigned,
so details are a bit sparse, but I wanted to focus on how someone's death and injury
and how these car attacks in general are being spun to discredit very legitimate and valid
protest movements.
If you enjoyed this video, I would once again remind you that there are two GoFundMe pages
for the victims linked below.
If you would like to support my work, as many of the people going up the screen have, you
can join my Patreon.
And if you signed up for the $5 a month tier, you will get your name in the credits, like
these lovely people here, a download to my theme song, written and performed by my lovely
friend Dana, and early access to my videos.
There actually is a video currently waiting to be uploaded to this channel that is available
for my Patrons, that's there if you're interested as well.
Thank you everyone very much for watching this video.
Please remember to like, comment, subscribe, and ring the bell.
I'll see you next time.
