I nearly died watching this video.
Stefan Molyneux promised he would tell me why I hated Trump.
He promised me I had to wait for over 50 minutes before his tedious lecture finally got to
the goddamn point.
So for anyone who wants the spoiler, here it is.
People hate Trump because he's threatening to take away government assistance programs.
There, just saved you an hour and five minutes.
Although when you think about it, that sounds like a leftist critique, doesn't it?
Why did it take Stefan 50 minutes just to get there?
Well that's because leading up to you, he takes you through a reading of history that
mixes up bad science, a love of capitalism, and a touch of racism.
Uh, I mean, race realism?
I think that's what he calls it.
But of course we all know that's just repackaged racism, and if you don't know that, I have
a video of mine you can watch, and that explains the whole thing.
A lot of what Stefan says in his video isn't really new.
Stefan has this shtick where he drones on and on about a variety of topics hitting the
same talking points and tropes.
I once heard advice that if you really believe passionately about something, prepare to be
boring about it.
Stefan has really taken that to heart.
I'm gonna try and not do that with this video though.
I need to mention something that Stefan didn't really bring up in his video, and that's social
Darwinism.
Here's a definition of social Darwinism to get us started.
A 19th century theory, inspired by Darwinism, by which the social order is accounted as
the product of natural selection of those persons best suited to existing living conditions
and in accord with which a position of laissez-faire is advocated.
This theory was used to rationalize the oppression found through imperialism and capitalism prevalent
throughout the last few centuries.
The basic idea behind it is that the British Empire was able to flourish because of their
essential superiority.
That is, they were born to rule, while other races were born to serve.
Or as Stefan would put it, some people are naturally more capable and others less capable.
The origins of social Darwinism can be traced back to English philosopher Herbert Spencer
and his conception of society as a social organism.
In Spencer's estimation, society, like an organism, needs to change and evolve on
its own without the onerous hand of a government.
Although often attributed to Darwin's theory of evolution via natural selection, the term
survival of the fittest was actually coined by Spencer, writing in his 1864 work Principles
of Biology, where he adapted Darwin's recently published theory into his own framework.
You may have noticed I said adapted because, even though Spencer's work was called social
Darwinism, his theory of the social organism predates Darwin's theory by nearly a decade.
Back then, Lamarckian evolution was the leading theory on why different species exist.
As a quick sidebar, Lamarckian evolution is the idea that our offspring inherit the traits
we acquire throughout our lives.
So, for example, a physically fit couple who got in shape through exercise will pass on
that physical fitness to their baby.
You can see this idea of evolution manifest itself in the anime Dragon Ball, where Goku's
sons Gohan and Goten have different power levels at age 6 because Goku had gotten stronger
in between the time of their conceptions.
And if this sounds completely idiotic to you, that's because it should.
It doesn't make any sense, because that's not how genes work.
Back to Spencer.
An earlier version of his social organism theory can be read in his 1851 work Social
Statics, published 8 years before Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
And it shows the Lamarckian roots of Spencer's theory.
Here he's basically talking about how society can evolve by shedding some of its weaker
members and instead focusing on more of its, as Stefan might put it, capable people.
It seems hard that widows and orphans should be left to struggle for life or death.
Nevertheless, when regarded not separately, but in connection with the interests of universal
humanity, these harsh fatalities are seen to be full of the highest beneficence, the
same beneficence that brings to early graves the children of diseased parents and singles
out the low-spirited, the intemperate, and the debilitated as the victims of an epidemic.
I wouldn't take this guy as a moral instructor, basically.
I would see him as a fucking maniac, Jesus.
If we look further in history, we can actually see Social Darwinism's roots go back even
further than the disturbing psychopathic rants of Spencer.
Here's a rather telling quote from slightly before his time.
One writer compared the extermination of these races by white settlers as being like the
melting of snow before the advancing rays of the sun.
Oh yeah, that was pretty rough.
As best I can tell, that quote is slightly paraphrased from the writings of Alexis de
Tocqueville and Gustave de Beaumont.
These are taken from writings about their travels through America in the very early
19th century, where they witnessed the effects of colonialism first hand.
We can probably travel back even further and find more examples of people being assholes
to the poor and to different races.
But Social Darwinism's origins have less to do with Darwin's theory and more to do
with assholes who believed in the superiority of their race or class.
Their misappropriation of science was an effort to give that form of discrimination some legitimacy.
The marriage of this hatred with Darwin's new theory via Spencer and other Social Darwinists
was fashionable in the 19th century.
I'm going to go back to that BBC doc I showed you a few moments ago to explain it more succinctly
than I can.
But evolution also suggested that there had to be losers in this great cosmic process
and the losers were those peoples who could not compete.
And once put into competition with superior races were doomed to disappear.
And this was likely to happen to all the native peoples in North America and the Pacific
and in Africa.
Across the world, the crimes of imperialism now came to be taken as proof that the Social
Darwinists were right.
Social Darwinism went on to be a strong rationalization for the excesses of laissez-faire capitalism,
a form of capitalism that insists the system works best when the government does as little
as possible to intervene.
If workers were exploited and owners were getting fat off profits, this was explained
through the lens of Social Darwinism as the natural order.
Stefan, as most other Social Darwinists, take the position that the inferior people, or
less capable people, will be less successful at passing on their genes.
That is, at least according to Stefan, until communism showed up and started demanding
that the damn government step in with its social programs like education and healthcare
just to make sure these damn poor people who are less capable would survive and have a
higher quality of life, I guess.
Makes one wonder why these inferior people are still with us if they should have been
bred out of the population so long ago.
Stefan's logic goes, people who hate Trump are afraid that their social programs will
go away, and the reason they need those social programs is because they are genetically inferior.
In other words, he's repackaged Social Darwinism and doesn't have the courtesy to tip his
hat to Herbert Spencer, Thomas Huxley, William Grant Sumner, and all the other Social Darwinists
of the past.
What a dick.
Although I guess if he's a dick, he really is living up to their legacy.
And to clarify one thing here, not all visions of Social Darwinism are the same, I'm giving
you a very brief overview here.
Some Social Darwinists were believers in imperialism, others not so much.
If you're curious though, one book that's been recommended by more well-read people
on the subject than me is Richard Hofstetter's Social Darwinism in American Thought.
It was published in the 1950s, but considering this is a 19th century ideology, it's still
pretty applicable.
So why is Social Darwinism wrong?
Social Darwinists will use the mantra of survival of the fittest, but evolution is
actually more accurately survival of the most adaptable, which is not nearly as catchy unfortunately.
Let's use cats as an example, because eh, the internet loves cats, right?
So when we think of the most evolved, so to speak, of cats, you might think of the biggest
and baddest one out there, the tiger, and yes it's the tiger, shut the fuck up lion people.
But interestingly, a far more successful hunter is this little guy, the black-footed
cat.
See here on video it's so cute, oh god it's so fucking cute, oh I can't, oh my god I
want one of these so much, they're wild animals, they deserve to be free and ugh.
It's one of the smallest cats in the wild, and while there is some slight concern to
its welfare as a species, it's generally thought to be in pretty good shape, or at
the very least, it's in far better shape than the tiger.
This adorable cat survives not because it's the biggest, strongest one out there, but
because it's adapted to its environment successfully.
As a small side note though, while tigers may be less successful hunters than the black-footed
cat, I need to stress that the only reason they're threatened as a species is because
of the invasive homo sapiens who are taking up its space and in some cases killing them?
No shade to the tigers, you guys are, you guys are the fucking best.
Nothing comes in all shapes and sizes, and there is no hierarchy in evolution.
Nothing is more or less evolved than the other, things only need to be able to reproduce,
and from an evolutionary standpoint, that's really all that matters.
Now when you think about it, we've all, and I say we as in all organisms living on this
planet, have been evolving for the same amount of time, so a single-celled organism isn't
any more or less evolved than a human because single-celled organisms are still reproducing,
they're still pretty successful, they're all over the place.
Here's the real kicker though, unlike that example I used above of the two cats, it turns
out human beings are all part of a single species.
Implicit in the idea of social Darwinism is that human beings can be divided into different
groups.
In this particular case, it would be different races and classes.
I've already talked about the arbitrary nature of race, but can class be explained by genetic
differences?
Turns out, no.
In a paper titled, Genetics in Social Class by Dr. N. A. Holtzman from Genetics and Public
Policy Studies at Johns Hopkins Medical, he concludes that the roots of social class differences
do not lie in our genes.
Consequently, genetics cannot be used as a justification for maintaining a ruling class,
limiting procreation among the poor, or minimizing social support programs.
The difficulty of class mobility being reduced to genetic weakness is a way of rationalizing
the inequalities that are created and reinforced by a system that keeps the rich rich and the
poor poor.
Reading between the lines of Stefan's argument of more capable and less capable humans, we
can see that this is just a way for him to pretend that the differences in social standings
between races and classes are part of the natural order.
Stefan has made the mistake of assuming that the way something is is the way it ought to
be.
That's conservatism in a nutshell, really.
Imagine if someone had said that about, I don't know, slavery or women having the right
to vote.
Another problem for Stefan is that he's looking at the present without thinking of the history
as also a series of present moments.
If we chose a different point of history and used his perspective, you could actually come
up with a completely different conclusion.
Imagine if you were in the 13th or 14th century.
You could argue that the Mongolians were the superior race because the Mongol Empire controlled
most of Asia and was one of the largest empires in human history.
In the 7th and 8th century, the Umayyad Caliphate was enormous and was the largest single entity
controlling the highly coveted Fertile Crescent of the Mediterranean.
Were the people of the Umayyad Caliphate the superior race?
The Han Dynasty of the, uh, Otts, I guess, were at the helm of a massive and powerful
Chinese empire.
If we were in that point of history, were the Han Chinese the superior race?
You can say that all those empires faded away and were displaced by others later on, but
how can you possibly say that that would never happen again?
What makes white people so special that their empire will be the last one?
The British might have thought that their empire was the greatest of all time, and now
it pales in comparison to what the United States is capable of doing with its pseudo-empire.
And for the record, I would certainly agree that the rise of an empire is influenced in
a small way by the genes of the empire builders, because all people are products of their genes
in society, but you can extrapolate the personalities and characteristics of imperialists to anyone
with the same skin color.
History teaches us quite clearly that all peoples are capable of creating empires.
That doesn't mean it's natural for one race to supplant another, it just means sometimes
assholes can exploit broken systems to attain power and abuse it.
Which brings us back to Donald Trump.
You don't need Stephon Molyneux's half-assed babble to tell you why you hate Trump.
Anyone who hates him can probably tell you why themselves.
Personally, I hate Trump's misogyny.
I don't even know what.
And when you're a star, they let you do it.
You can do anything.
Whatever you want.
Grab them by the pussy.
I can do anything.
Racism, xenophobia.
Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here, referring to African
countries and Haiti, the president then went on to talk about how they needed to bring
in more people from places like Norway.
Jingoism.
We must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries, making our products, stealing
our companies and destroying our jobs.
And perhaps most of all his unbridled stupidity.
My two greatest assets have been mental stability and being, like, really smart.
There.
Was that so tough?
Geez, less than half the time, too.
