Friends, I'm going to need a boost to get through this video.
Can I get a Woah Jose?
Married with Children was one of the most controversial hits in television history.
It was beloved by its audience, reviled by critics, and more than once the target of censorship.
It was a brash, loud, obnoxious show about a working-class family that would ring each
other's neck for a spoonful of chili. The spicy sitcom was the antithesis of family TV comedy in
the 1980s and 90s. To understand how a show like this even got on the air in the first place,
we have to set the clock back to before the idea was a glimmer in the eyes of its creators and
start with the founding of the Fox Television Network. In the 1980s, there were only three
major TV networks in the United States, NBC, ABC, and CBS, and this had more or less been the case
for decades. Rupert Murdoch, through his media conglomerate News Corporation, wanted to enter
into the network TV market under the banner of 20th Century Fox, the famed movie studio
which Murdoch had recently acquired. Murdoch spent $2.5 billion purchasing TV stations in
major markets throughout the US and nearly $600 million purchasing TCF, 20th Century Fox's TV
production studio. He would create a new network, the Fox Broadcasting Company, or FBC. This was
quickly rebranded to the much catchier name of Fox. The new network, the fourth of its kind on
American televisions, launched on October 9, 1986, with its only original programming being a late
night chat show starring Joan Rivers, creatively titled The Late Show. The show didn't last more
than a few months, but Fox upped the stakes in 1987, launching two nights of original programming
on Saturdays and Sundays. The Saturday lineup was pretty forgettable with shows such as The New
Adventures of Beans Baxter and Women in Prison, which I assume isn't a porno. On the other hand,
Sunday Nights introduced the world to both Johnny Depp in 21 Jump Street and The Simpsons on the
Tracy Elman show. It also introduced us to The Bundys, stars of the sitcom Married with Children.
A young executive at Fox, Garth and Cierra, tapped Michael Moy and Ron Levitt, the duo responsible
for the sitcom Silver Spoons and It's Your Move, without much money to offer the pair,
and Cierra instead gave them something even more alluring. Creative control in shaping a sitcom,
however they saw fit. The perks were, you know, we didn't get network notes, you know, and no
testing, research and development, all of the usual red tape and crap, and this is what they
sold us. Sick homes of that era typically featured happy, well-functioning families like the kind
you'd see on The Cosby Show, growing pains, or family ties. The successes of these shows led to
a host of imitators. Levitt and Moy were determined not to follow suit. They suspected that the
American public was ready for something different, a show that didn't wrap saccharine messages into
a family-friendly package. Your life sucks, and they all have clean houses and hugs at the end,
and Ron and Mike wanted to do a show where no matter what happened, after you turned it off,
you could feel a little bit better about yourself. Speaking to Rolling Stone in 1989, Levitt and Moy
described what they thought of TV that had a message. I can't believe that you need your
morality taught by the kids on Facts of Life, Levitt says. Yeah, Moy says, if you want to watch
a show and learn about premarital sex, let Alf teach you. The original concept of the show was
inspired by the acts of two popular comedians at the time, Sam Kinison and Roseanne Barr.
Best thing about marriage is that these are connected.
They don't come on. Because if they did, your wife would take it as soon as you got married.
You know, you're married now, you will be needing that.
You know, like clean stuff and cook stuff and help them with their little problems like I care.
I'd rather lay there on the couch criticizing others and then run all the charge cards up to
the limit. The idea of these two being married to one another is the spark that got this show
going. The comedians were even supposedly approached to star in it, only for both to turn
down their respective roles. Though years later, creator Michael Moy would say that if this casting
option was seriously considered, he was never consulted about it. Levitt and Moy preferred
the actors cast in the roles to be unknowns without pre-existing personas. They wanted
the Bundy family to be a unique creation. Together, they wrote a pilot script that
thumbed its nose at sitcom conventions. It was a pilot that would be a game changer.
Although the existence of this series is held up as an example of how times have changed,
as if this show could never be produced today because the politically correct have taken over
the airwaves and destroyed comedy, it's worth noting that when that pilot script was first seen
by the network, it wasn't warmly received. The hands-off approach promised to Levitt and Moy
would eventually vanish and suddenly the research department came in with suggestions of making the
Bundy's more loving. Levitt and Moy resisted input from the research department and they were
backed by Ann Cyr, but luck was on their side as well. Fox was a new network and in desperate need
of content, so they were given far more leeway than they might have gotten on another network.
With their debut only a few weeks away, the Fox executives didn't have time to plug up holes in
their schedule. It wasn't the more lax standards towards political correctness that got married
with children on the airwaves. The real cause is more likely the unique circumstances in which this
series was created around. I suspect that worked in the favor of Levitt and Moy getting their way
on making this the show they wanted to see. And the show they wanted starred an unconventional
family. The Bundy's were headed by its patriarch, Al Bundy, played by Ed O'Neill, a dramatic actor
with no comedy experience. O'Neill was one of the last actors cast after a very lengthy search.
It was his unique take on the character that really sealed the role for him, resigned to his fate of
being married to a wife who sat around all day with kids who treated him like a cash machine,
all while working at a job he hated, selling women's shoes. The perpetual loser often seen with a hand
stuffed down the front of his pants. Al had a rough charm to him that made him an underdog
he wanted to root for, even when he was ogling women or stealing from innocent people. He had
a strange magnetism to him. Al Bundy would define Ed O'Neill's career for a long time to come.
Al's wife Peggy was played by Katie Seagal, and her fiery
personality was completed with her signature tall red hair. Originally written as a couch potato,
it was Katie Seagal who decided to play Peggy as someone who saw herself as a hot chick married
to a loser, and she helped define her unique fashion sense, taken from the look of a housewife
in the 1960s. It created a vision of Peggy as a mother you wouldn't see on other TV shows. Peggy
was the anti-housewife. She would sooner spend the day watching Oprah and eating bonbons than go
grocery shopping or talk to her children. The Bundy children, Kelly and Bud, were originally
played by Tina Kaspery and Hunter Carson. They even filmed the series pilot with the two of them,
but the producers felt they didn't quite fit into the role, and they were recast.
Christina Applegate and David Faustino would take their place. Although they were loud and bratty
from the get-go, these characters would be more meaningfully defined as the series progressed.
The only constant throughout the series was their bitter bickering.
The Bundys were joined by their neighbors, Steve and Marcy Rhodes. David Garrison was the first
person cast for the series, having worked with Leave It in Moy on It's Your Move. Steve Rhodes
was the smarmy, yuppy, newlywed next-door who walked with an unearned sense of accomplishment,
the complete opposite of Al. His wife Marcy, played by Amanda Burce, grew considerably
throughout the series, going from a demure woman who subtly controlled her husband,
to an outspoken feminist who embodied the worst of liberal hypocrisy.
And last, but certainly not least, was the Bundy's faithful dog Buck, played by a Briard
conveniently named Buck. This very good boy would typically be seen sitting around the
Bundy living room pondering the many mysteries of the universe.
The world was introduced to the Bundy family for the first time on April 5th,
1987. The pilot for this show established a few basics right from the get-go.
First of all, the kids do not get along.
We also see the role money plays in the cast-strapped Bundy household. It's what the
kids expect from Al instead of love, and it's how Peg controls him.
Al working in the shoe store shows us another familiar sight,
him struggling with a heavyset customer.
And that was the first of many, many fat woman jokes. These jokes were defense mechanisms for
Al, a way of striking back against customers who treat him poorly and indirectly, although
against the horrible life he finds himself trapped in. It doesn't excuse the jokes, of course,
but it does give us some context to understand where Al is coming from, an ignorant man broken
by his crappy job striking out at an easy target. We also meet a small addition to the cast,
the character Luke Ventura, played by Rich Scheidner, Al's co-worker at the shoe store.
He appeared in a few episodes in season one, but disappeared by the time the second season
rolled around. His job was to be the single guy who would make Al regret getting married.
Luke Ventura also gives me the chance to mention the naming convention for characters on this show.
Most people assume the Bundys were named after serial killer Ted Bundy, but they were actually
named after pro wrestler King Kong Bundy. The Rhodeses were named after Dusty Rhodes,
and Luke Ventura was named after Jesse The Body Ventura.
Is it okay if my family comes for a visit?
Well, it doesn't really matter what you say. Besides, how bad can it be?
The second act of the show is taken up by a visit from Steve and Marcy Rhodes,
the newlyweds who have just moved in next door to the Bundys. Steve and Marcy are,
well, they're not like the Bundys. I feel that sports glorify violence and competition,
and I don't think it's psychologically healthy. When we have a child, we don't want it to grow up
with that winning-is-the-only-thing attitude. A child is better off not being exposed to sports.
You're gonna neuter him, too?
And this really encapsulates the relationship between the Bundys and the Rhodes in these first
few seasons. The gentle sensibilities of Steve and Marcy are mocked and degraded by Alan Pegg.
It's like when you're sitting somewhere and they come over and they say to you,
what are you thinking? And you start thinking, you know, if I wanted you to know, I'd be talking.
You've got a good thing going. Don't start letting him have a good time
alone. But we still have a good time together. Then why is he staying up?
And soon the Bundys have pulled the Rhodeses into their misery.
I demand to know what you do late at night after I've gone to bed.
Are you having fun alone, Steve?
No, I'd just like to stay up and think.
What are you thinking?
Well, if I wanted you to know, I'd...
Al, I'll see you next week at the game.
Peggy, I think we'll be spending a lot of time together.
Come on, Steve. We've got to talk.
I'll make it quick. I'm going to watch boxing.
You'll watch nothing.
When the Rhodeses show up, I can't help but be reminded of Edward Albee's play Who's
Afraid of Virginia Woolf, the story of an older married couple that invites over newlyweds for
dinner and then subjects them to a night of mind games. In that play, George and Martha,
aimed for the first US president and his wife, contrast the illusions and promises of America.
We see echoes of that in Married with Children, though in this case, the promise of the happy
nuclear family is being undermined by the miserable reality of the Bundy clan. And while
the Rhodeses think their lives are on a different track, Al and Peggy are ready to pull them back
down to reality, or at least their version of reality. The style of comedy is undeniably
a farce with over-the-top acting and jokes that slap you in the face. The show's sense
of humor was rapid and constant. Even though some of it is problematic, particularly Al's
one-man war against overweight women, quite a bit of it stands up surprisingly well, especially
considering it was written over 30 years ago. The pilot premiered with little fanfare and even
smaller ratings. Fox was still an unknown and had trouble attracting an audience who weren't even
sure how to tune into the channel. That said, Married with Children quickly became its top sitcom
and even got a slightly warm reception from some critics. Over the years, that would change,
though. A major topic in the first season is Al's manhood in the modern world. Al is very much a
relic beholden to his days as a high school football star, bitter that his life peaked at 18.
Now his dreams are much simpler, like wanting an extra bathroom that's all his own.
Einstein had his own room. You think Einstein invented the theory of relativity in his wife's
exercise room? No, he was in his own room with the door closed. Al arguing that a man deserves
a room of his own is a direct inversion of Virginia Woolf's essay, A Room of One's Own,
a feminist work which argued for women to have space to enter the literary tradition. Al very
explicitly opines for the days when men had all the privileges and women had, well, all the chores
and the children. And Al argues for these good old days using feminist rhetoric. And keep in mind,
this is Al talking about being an oppressed man in 1987. Al is right about his life sucking. He's
a working class man trying to support a family in a world that's making it tougher all the time,
but instead of complaining about low wages or lack of benefits, he mistakenly shifts the blame
on to women wanting equal rights. Al is a reactionary. One of the binds the series puts
us in is that Al is also our hero. Although he would remain explicitly anti-woman throughout
the series, what's surprising is to see how the audience very quickly started taking his side of
things. In season one, there were still some pushback like with this line. Look, I'm not sexist.
I'm just saying women don't know nothing. This shows us a version of Al that is meant to be a
fool to be laughed at, not a hero to be supported. But even in the first few seasons, he wasn't
completely unredeemable and he had a few genuinely admirable qualities. Strangely enough, Al has a
number of opportunities to hook up with beautiful women throughout the series, but he manages to
stay faithful to peg throughout it all. In the first season episode, Al loses his cherry,
we see Al tempted by one of the many vacuous blondes that will inhabit the series.
Al eventually does the right thing.
He goes back to peg, but he does make it a little creepy.
So Al is gross, we all know that, but he shows us some character in this episode,
not cheating on his wife, which, as we can see from peg at home, would really hurt her.
This is about establishing Al, for all his faults, isn't a complete bastard.
What's interesting is how the show presents characters. They're absurd and over the top,
and the cherry sister in particular play into a gross male fantasy of the vacant blonde,
but they're being deployed in a slightly more sophisticated way. The temptation of Al is a
genuine test because it risks the very foundations of the premise, that is, a married couple at the
center of this entire sitcom. The show can't continue if the married couple and married with
children are no longer married. The idea behind the comedy here is that Al and Peg don't
mean the nasty things they say to each other, and deep down there's some real love there.
If Al or Peg cheated on the other, it would violate that implication. What this show has
at its core is the idea of a deep love that transcends romance and lust. The fact that it
acknowledges temptation is actually kind of realistic. Al and the Bundys generally are
rough people who do bad things, but they aren't completely unredeemable. Funnily enough, this is
how the seed is planted, taking them from being objects of ridicule to underdogs the audience can
cheer for. I also really like this episode because Peg apparently watches my YouTube channel.
Thanks, Peggy. The poverty of the Bundys is a huge reason as to why they live so miserably.
The Bundys are the traditional nuclear family struggling to survive at a new status quo of the
1980s, and this new reality doesn't have room for the Bundys. Stephen Marcy are part of the
new order. The one the Bundys sneer at. The people who move in next door who have a much happier
marriage and more successful careers. They aren't massively successful, but they're doing better
than the Bundys. And by the end of the season, they're already looking down at their poor
neighbors. Just like how everyone else looks down on the Bundys. And it must suck to feel like
everyone is looking down at you. Thank you, Father Kids. Thanks, Dad. The second season
established more of the show's tone, including its tendency to tell absurd stories. It opens
with a two parter that has the Bundys going on vacation to dump water Florida. Upon getting
there, they are attacked by a genuine axe murderer. Kids, get dressed. We're leaving.
But we like it here. Suit yourself, Peg.
Al, we are not leaving the children. Well, what's wrong? There's someone in our room.
That's him. And they react in typical Bundy fashion, stealing and kicking ass. It's safe.
Steal everything that's not tied down.
Pack up. We'll go downstairs, get a refund. Hit the road.
Pack this. We can always use a fork.
This is one of the many times we'll be seeing the Bundys doing both of these things. It's a
gentle reminder that while they are our protagonists and aren't as bad as a literal axe murderer,
they're not so great themselves. That again, everyone in the show's world seems to be an
asshole like the townsfolk who let the murderer off so they can keep one of their major tourist
attractions. What are you doing? Making sure you didn't hurt him. See Bundy, dump water ain't much
of a town. We only got two things, a serial killer and the man who met Andy Griffith.
The Bundys live in a cynical world where everyone is chasing money, something the
Bundys lack. In fact, the only reason Bundys were at this hellhole was because it was the
only vacation they could afford. We can get an example of what wealthier Bundys might be like in
Master the Possibilities. The Bundys mistakenly think they don't have to pay the bill on a
credit card that was accidentally given to Buck, giving them a taste of living the sweet life.
It also reveals that they believe a few things about being rich, like it buys you social
permission to be a jerk. It's here we see that the Bundys are much happier when they aren't fighting
over the few scraps they have. Everyone in the world is obsessed with money, and the Bundys are
showing us what happens to a family without any. It's a powerful counterpoint to the obsessive
consumerism of the 1980s. The chase for money makes both the rich and poor much harsher to
everyone around them. One of the memorable moments in season two happens in the episode
You Better Watch Out, where a mall promotion featuring a parachuting Santa went awry.
I really appreciate the contrast and reactions between the roads and the Bundys.
While this might have ruined Christmas for any other family, the Bundys have a rare victory
when they realize Santa's sack was filled with coupons for the new mall. This really captures
the spirit of married with children. Christmas, the traditional family holiday, is really just
about the presents, and the Bundys cut through the sentimental mask that disguises that materialism.
The Bundy house is where Santa goes to die, but he can leave the presents. A fun bit of
trivia is that, according to show co-creator Michael Moy, the idea of Santa falling to his
death in a failed stunt at Christmas time was taken from the childhood memories of one of the
writers on the show. On second thought, maybe that trivia isn't so much fun. And before leaving
season two entirely, it also gave us one of my favorite running gags in the show, The Bundy Cheer.
I've purposely avoided talking about another thing married with children was increasingly
getting a rep for, and that's having beautiful men and women, although more often than not women,
showing some skin. This helped attract the younger demographic Fox had been hunting for,
but the network was growing increasingly wary of the salacious imagery and plot lines of the series.
This set the stage for the notorious episode, Her Cup's Runneth Over,
written by Stacy Sprong and Marcy Vosberg. In this episode, Peg's birthday is ruined when
she finds out her favorite bra is being discontinued. Alan and Steve go on a road trip to a special
lingerie store in Wisconsin to track down Peg's favorite bra, and engage in some saucy antics
featuring women in lingerie. This episode happened to catch the eye of Terri Ricolta,
a housewife in Michigan. The story goes that she had been letting her children have free
reign of the television when she noticed they were watching this particular episode of Married
with Children. Ricolta was so upset she was moved to call into the network to complain about the
show. Fox being new to the whole network thing didn't have a department to field complaint
calls. So, amazingly, they forwarded the call to one of the writers responsible for the episode,
Marcy Vosberg. Both women provided their own versions of that conversation.
But we're just trying something a little bit new, and I said, we sort of take a British approach
to censorship. If it's offensive, you can always change the channel. Very condescending tones,
she said. You know, this is a body program. We are pushing the envelope of television.
Our viewing audience is an adult, viewer drinking male, 18 to 35 years old. She said, and finally,
Mrs. Ricolta, if you don't like what you're seeing, I suggest to you that you just stand up,
walk over to the television and turn it off. Ricolta, undeterred by the phone call, wrote to
the heads of the various companies advertising their products on Married with Children,
and she convinced many of them to start pulling their ads. Married with Children was being
attacked by a one-woman boycott. An article from the New York Times describes her success.
Proctor and Gamble, McDonald's, Tam Brands, and Kimberly Clark have instructed their advertising
agencies not to buy further time on the program Married with Children. In an interview, the
Michigan woman, Terry Ricolta, said she has objected to the program because of its blatant
exploitation of women and sex and anti-family attitudes. But what parts of this episode really
bothered Ricolta? I'm going to pick out a handful of the more controversial moments of this episode,
at least in the eyes of someone living in 1988, and I want you to guess which two were the ones
that, for Terry Ricolta, crossed the line. Do you know what happened if men had breasts? We wouldn't
need women anymore. And if you had what other men have, I wouldn't need batteries anymore.
Don't be embarrassed. We often cater to people like you.
Now, what size does your boyfriend like to see you in?
No, no, no. You don't understand. We're married. And not to each other, too.
And if I was gay, I'd like to think I could do better than him.
Steve, aren't you ashamed of yourself?
Oh, come on, Al. She was asking for it. You see how she's dressed.
Isn't there something we can do about this? We can dance.
No!
Happy birthday, dragon! If you were my boyfriend, would you like this?
Or do you think he'd like it better, without the bra, like this?
Yeah, you're right. I don't need the bra. Well, I gotta go. Bar exam tomorrow.
Okay, so which of those two clips really set off Ricolta?
Let's go back to the Times article to find out. In an interview, she said she was
appalled by the sexual innuendo and treatment of women on the program, particularly its references
to homosexuality and a sequence featuring a woman publicly removing her bra. So it was the reference
to gay men and the hand bra. While the hand bra, I can understand, it's pretty chilling to think
mentioning characters might be gay was enough to offend someone. It's a strong reminder of how far
gay rights have come in the last 30 years. The Ricolta boycott, although seemingly a threat at
first, backfired pretty spectacularly. It gave Married with Children a national spotlight,
and what was already the most popular show on Fox got a huge boost in the ratings from people
coming by to see what all the fuss was about. Here's an excerpt from an Entertainment Weekly
article in 1990, one year after the boycott began. The show is as raucous as ever, the audience has
grown, and advertisers are still advertising. A number of sponsors that wrote letters of support
to Ricolta have continued to run commercials in Married, some could even be called heavy
advertisers. In short, free speech is safe. From Terry Ricolta. Ricolta, who has since formed
Americans for Reasonable Television, a media watchdog organization that publishes a monthly
newsletter for 2,000 subscribers, concedes that her campaign brought more publicity to Married,
and probably more viewers. I'm still waiting for that fruit basket from Fox, she says.
As the ratings have climbed, so have the rates charged for 30 seconds of commercial time.
Last spring, a half minute went for 65,000. These days, the cost is 100,000 to 120,000,
roughly equal to the rates of an NBC Sunday night movie. It was so hot Married with Children managed
to set a record-breaking increase in viewership. According to Ricolta, her real problem was with
Married with Children airing before 9pm, which apparently made it more likely to find its way
in front of younger audiences. At the time, the sitcom had been airing at 8.30pm. Fox did push
it back to 9pm the following season, though it was moving with a significantly larger audience,
and it would grow larger still. The network also had one strange reaction to the boycott.
To take the upcoming episode, I'll See You in Court, off the schedule entirely. It was an
episode about the Bundy's and Rhodes' visiting a love motel where their Night of Passion was
secretly recorded, leading to a showdown where they take the hotel owners to court.
Fox considered this episode too controversial for television, and it didn't air until several
years later, well after the series ended, on June 18th, 2002. Although a decent episode,
it didn't really live up to the hype. Season 3 had a few other highlights I want to mention
before moving on. Both Bud and Kelly became more developed as characters in this season.
For instance, Bud started committing hair crimes. As a hair choice like this would suggest,
Bud's journey through puberty was a lonely one. From here on out, we'll be seeing Bud,
the relatively intelligent Bundy, feel the need to prove his manhood by hooking up with a girl,
or in the majority of cases, as close as he can get to one.
The day I stoop low enough to date a mannequin
is the day I truly earned the name Bundy.
On the complete opposite end of the spectrum, Kelly proves herself to be very successful in
her dating life, although she also distinguishes herself as the dimmest of the Bundy's.
I think this is where Christina Applegate really started to distinguish herself.
Although the Kelly character would be trapped in this endless cycle of being the
dumb blonde who hooks up with countless guys, Applegate was able to deliver her lines with
a refreshing energy that really demonstrated she had a talent for comedy. She'd go on to be one
of the breakout stars of the show, and part of it was being able to pull off moments like this one.
One of the well-established tropes of this series up to this point is that
Al sees having sex with Peg as a chore.
It's not that he doesn't find Peg attractive, because she's lost her looks or anything like
that, it's because she's his wife. It's the routine of sex that has reduced Al's interest
in it, at least with Peggy. To compensate, Peggy uses a variety of schemes that trick Al into bed.
Small content warning for sexual violence, because a few of these clips are a bit disturbing.
Skip ahead to the time scene below if you'd like to avoid this section.
While it's typically done through guile or some other form of manipulation,
the more problematic aspect of this becomes apparent when roles are reversed in the fourth
season premiere. In Hot Off the Grill, Al decides to celebrate Labor Day with a barbecue.
Al, using his day off to its fullest, demands Peg start cleaning and doing other chores around
the house. This turns out on.
And this happens several times this episode, the running gag being that instead of Al not wanting
to have sex, it's Peg who doesn't want to do it because she's just too tired.
Cut out the laughter and applause, and this scene looks dramatically different. Perhaps it might
have seemed like an easier subject for humor when the big strong man is acquiescing to the weaker
wife, but that in and of itself is problematic. Non-consensual sex, whether it comes through
physical force or mental manipulation, is sexual assault. Al and Peg have somehow worked it into
their strange marriage, but there's still something very disturbing about making light of it.
Certain aspects of the show have aged surprisingly well, but this isn't one of them. If anything,
looking at this from 2020, it often feels more uncomfortable than funny.
One major highlight for season 4 was the hour-long special, It's a Bundyful Life. As the name
suggests, it's a married with children take on the classic Christmas movie, It's a Wonderful Life.
Rather than some of the first part myself, I'll let Al's poetry fill you in.
In a second half of the story, Al's repairing of the Christmas lights goes wrong.
And Al is met by his guardian angel, Sam Kinesen, the very comedian who inspired the
character of Al Bundy. As you might have guessed,
Al gets to see what the world would have been like had he not been born.
How we meet the man who takes Al's place.
That's Ted McGinley playing Norman Jablonsky. We'll be seeing more of him in season 5
in a completely different role. Things aren't going well for guardian angel Sam Kinesen.
Turns out it's very difficult to give Al a reason to want to live. Until…
they're happy. Not a care in the world. You think I'm going to let that happen
after all the grief they put me through? I want to live! And Al returns home.
This was a twist on the It's a Wonderful Life concept that's actually original,
even if it's just an inversion, and what it so beautifully captures is the power of
spite to someone in a world they think has turned against them. If someone were to say
the world would be better off if you didn't exist, that can create some real bitterness.
Biting back against that is at the heart of who Al is. He won't go away, even if it would make
the world a better place. This speaks to that aggrieved reactionary narrative so well. The old
status quo being undoubtedly replaced means guys like Al are getting a smaller piece of the pie,
or in Al's case, the smaller piece of the pie he was promised in his youth. This wasn't the way
things were supposed to turn out for him. But I need to stress, Al being erased isn't speaking
to a reality, just a feeling that it's happening. Married with Children is presenting us the world
through a warped lens, one that sneers at the facade of the happy family that other sitcoms
pretend exist, or at least pretend exist in every home. Married with Children isn't intentionally
pushing an aggrieved white conservative male narrative on purpose, it's that the very conceit
of the series carries that implicit bias. On its original broadcast, this became the highest
rated episode of the series, achieving 31.4 million viewers. A major turning point in season 4 was the
growing influence of the Bundys on their neighbors, the Roses, and I don't just mean the increasing
animosity between Al and Marcy. But doesn't anybody know this is against the law? So I was
dressing up a chicken and calling it your wife. I am not a chicken. Why does he keep calling me a
chicken? By the time the fourth season rolls around, the once happy newlyweds are well on
their way to becoming Al and Peg. When I was dating you, I had a few milk bones slipped into my pocket.
I was pretty. My mother told me so. Compared to your mother you were. So now you don't like my
mother. What's not to like? A 60 year old woman who played the drums. Aside from the bickering,
there was the added pain of Steve getting wrapped up in one of Al's schemes, a shoe themed hotline.
The trial had everything. Crying, that was Mr. Rhodes. He lost his job, you know. And then
there was an honest-to-goodness fit. That was Mrs. Rhodes. She got demoted to drive up window teller.
While it seemed like Al was shaping Steve into him, he started to more closely resemble Peggy.
I've been thinking, I don't really want to work.
It's boring. I'm having fun not working. Peggy says, well, Marcy says you're working, leech man.
The degradation of their marriage also reveals more to the Steve and Marcy characters. Their
veneer of tolerant, open-minded liberals is ripped away to reveal, much like the Bundy's, what terms
them on is money. I mean, when I first married Steve, he was a greedy, materialistic pig.
He'd step on an old lady for a dollar. God, how he excited me. Though they don't quite go full Bundy,
they not only have the experience of having had money, but there are no kids to weigh them down.
Marcy becoming Al is very interesting since the bitterness of working a low-paying job is almost
instantaneous. This is apparently what low-wage work will do to someone in this world, particularly
if they're in a single-income family and their partner refuses to work. It's taxing not just
financially but psychologically. It also shows us the precariousness of the relatively lavish
lifestyle of the Roses. They're one firing and demotion away from their lives and marriages
crumbling. All of this was setting up the groundwork for the first major change in the show's cast,
the departure of David Garrison. Although there was no bad blood between him or any involved in
the show's production, in his heart, he was primarily a theater actor, and he left to pursue
that interest. In the context of the show, Steve's departure would be explained as him running off to
be a park ranger, but he would be back a few more times over the years. Season 4 also gave us one
more important first. We finally get to hear Buck speak.
Buck has many internal monologues over the years and even a few Buck-centric episodes.
He was voiced by Kevin Carran, a writer for the series. Though in the handful of Buck-centric
episodes, where Buck has more than a handful of lines, he's voiced by Cheech Marin.
Married with Children continued to get even more popular with the start of its fifth season,
which is pretty easy to understand when you look at what other shows were out there.
Even the opening to season 5 starts with a great moment that captures what this show is all about.
What you may have noticed in many of these clips is how raucous the audience is getting.
Back in season 4 we started getting loud ovations from pretty much every first entrance of a member
of the principal cast. Married with Children was very quickly distinguishing itself for having one
of the most vocal audiences. If you listen closely to this clip, you can hear someone shout,
Don't do it.
And this was far from being the only time something like this happened.
You can hear the audience shouting out in a number of scenes, and this is my favorite example.
How much do people love this show if they're cheering a dog getting a hookup?
In an article for New York Magazine, Hollywood sound engineer John Bicklehopped describes his
time on the show. Married with Children, he says, was amazing. I worked on that show for years and
years, and honestly, I had little to do except clean up edits. That owed a lot to careful casting
of the crowd. Married, he says, often had audiences packed with Marines and service people who
responded to the show's aggressive anti-PC humor. The audience serves as a good indicator of where
the show will be heading in the future. The strongest reactions were typically for sexy women
or anti-PC humor, and both would become more prominent in later season. Here's an example
from just one season later.
The laughter makes sense, but the cheering? Al is supposed to be in the wrong, the out-of-touch
loser to be mocked because the audience is supposed to feel as though they're better than
him. But by being the star of a beloved sitcom, all that goodwill is turning him into a folk hero,
and Al using a white reactionary victimhood narrative creates an implicit support for that
point of view. Season 5 took another big step in the show's evolution with the episode,
Married with Who?, where we meet our old friend Ted McGinley, only now he's playing a different
character, Marcy's new husband, Jefferson Darcy. The marriage was a product of a one-night stand.
The dynamic here is Jefferson is a mooching, pretty boy conman,
leaving off of Marcy's wealth. This wasn't the first time Ted McGinley was a late addition to a
sitcom. Before coming to Marry with Children, he joined the cast of both Happy Days and The
Love Boat in their later seasons, something that was cutely referenced in later episodes of
Married with Children. It took the audience a while to warm up to Jefferson. According to
McGinley, it was about two seasons, but in my opinion I think he fit into the cast quite nicely,
right from the get-go. With Married with Children writing so high,
it was only natural for Fox to want to capitalize on that success, and that's how we got the first
attempt at creating a spin-off. In Oldies But Youngins, we meet Al's friend, Charlie Verducci,
played by Joseph Bologna, whose son is dating Kelly. His name is Vinny, and he's played by a
young Matt LeBlanc. A few episodes later, Married with Children would go the extra mile using its
100th episode to give audiences a stealth pilot for the spin-off show, Top of the Heap. In this
episode, the only regular cast member to appear was Al in a small cameo. The rest of the time,
we hang out with the Verducci's, a father-son duo who are trying to hatch a forgettable plot to get
rich. There was only one really great moment, and that's the part where Matt LeBlanc pretends to
box with Mr. Fluffy the Cat, who performed under his own name. That is such a talented cat. Top
of the Heap would build on this bland episode to premiere on April 7th, 1991. It was the first and
most successful of the Married with Children spin-offs, lasting a grand total of six episodes.
Not counting the pilot. A year later, the spin-off somehow got a spin-off of its own, titled Vinny
and Bobby, with Matt LeBlanc once again playing Vinny, only now his co-star is Robert Torti,
playing his roommate Bobby Grazo. The show made the disastrous decision to cut out the clear star
of the previous series, Mr. Fluffy the Cat, but it ended up being slightly more successful,
blazing past the old series' six-episode run to reach a grand total of seven episodes.
For Matt LeBlanc's sake, a year later, he would find himself on Friends and become a big star.
Friends, by the way, also featured Christina Applegate, who would guest-star on a few
episodes playing Rachel's sister. There's no word of what happened to Mr. Fluffy the Cat, though.
And one last highlight from season five I need to mention is we are introduced to Al's favorite
TV show, a western titled Psychodad.
Season six carried the momentum of season five and continued the trend of strong ratings. The
Ricotta controversy was long gone, but another powerful driver of attention for the show was
that, with over 100 episodes in its library, it now qualified for syndication. It was voraciously
snapped up by networks, as the early seasons in particular had such underwhelming ratings in their
initial run that it was like buying a bunch of forgotten episodes for a hit TV series.
This brought in even more new viewers hungry for more married-with-children.
The premiere for season six brought with it a major change.
The reaction from the family isn't great.
The
plot line was written into the series as, in real life, Katie Seagal was pregnant,
and it let her appear on camera without having to hide that fact.
Also, a third child is the exact sort of bad luck that Al would have. Seagal was clearly
far along in her pregnancy at the time, and a few months into the new season, she would leave the
series for four episodes. I have to talk about some heavy stuff now, so consider this a content
warning, particularly for anyone who's experienced challenges during their own pregnancy or the
pregnancy of a loved one. You can skip ahead to the time below if this is a sensitive topic for you.
Katie Seagal's departure to have her first child took an unfortunate turn. She was six weeks from
coming to term when she had to have an emergency caesarean section, and tragically her pregnancy
ended in a stillbirth. Normally this type of information would stay private, as it so obviously
should, but Seagal had been public with her pregnancy. To prevent the difficulty of dealing
with questions from a nosy press, she released a statement on what had happened.
Somehow Seagal was able to return to the show less than a month after the experience,
and the pregnancy was quickly written out of the series, with the early episodes revealed to be a
dream Al was having. Naturally, there needed to be a moment where Al is shocked to learn that Peg
is no longer pregnant. The kids are awkwardly roped into this scene for this moment because,
and this is me speculating, no one wanted to put Katie Seagal in a scene where she even had to
hear references to a missing pregnancy. I think this shows how, behind the scenes, the cast and
crew unmarried with children had a lot of real love and affection for one another, especially
in a difficult time like this. Katie Seagal would become pregnant two more times during the run of
the series, and happily both were delivered to term successfully. For obvious reasons, her second
and third pregnancies are never referenced on the show. While Katie Seagal was away from the show,
there was another important moment for the series. Mende Burce, who played Marcy, decided to try her
hand at directing in the episode titled, If I Could See Me Now, in which Al needs glasses.
Although she would still appear as Marcy until the end of the series, she would go on to direct
over 30 episodes of Married with Children. Season 6 also gave us the birth of a new
gimmick Bud would use to attract women. When the hat is on, I'm street rapper Grandmaster B.
When it's off, I'm Bud. Got it? Now, the hat is on. Who am I?
Oh, cheer up, Buttwagger B. Why, it's Grandfather B.
They're there, Crossdresser B. I'm really sorry, Grand Marshal B.
Gasp, passer, bassmaster. What's the difference?
Even after the first 10 episodes of the season are revealed to have been a dream,
as a convenient way of writing Peg and Marcy's pregnancies out of the show,
the Grandmaster B persona manages to survive. Do you also call yourself street rapper Grandmaster B?
Or was that a dream? Oh, come on, Daddy.
Even Bud's not pathetic enough to- Hey, this is a Grandmaster B.
Chicks would be all over me. I could wear my hat backwards.
Oh man, I'm gonna go write my first rap right now.
This gimmick was inspired by real life, where David Fosino was trying to be a rapper
under the name Dee Lil. Fosino released an album titled Ballistics, which spawned one single titled
I Told Ya. I couldn't find any sales information for this album, but since there was no follow-up,
I assume it wasn't quite as popular as the Joey Lawrence album from the same time period.
I don't want to get any copyright claims for playing some of Dee Lil's single,
so I'm gonna rap a few bars for you. Here we go.
So you wick-wack, knick-knack, tick-tack, skip back.
I got the funky style and you know you can't get with that.
I got more flavor than the bar candy kit, cat.
And when it comes to kitty cats, I gotta have the Jimmy hats.
Yeah, that was the song.
Season 6 also brought us the first return of Steve Rhodes in The Egg and Eye.
In this episode, Steve has stolen a rare hawk egg,
but when he comes back for Marcy, he finds out she's moved on.
I came to reclaim my wife.
I wouldn't crawl to you if I had a date with Mel Gibson and you had the last diaphragm on Earth.
Because we had one, two, three, four, five, seven kids.
Season 7 is often cited as the season where everything started to take a bad turn.
It was during the season that one of the show's co-creators, Michael Moy,
left the series, leaving Ron leave it to hold it together on his own.
This season also had the Bundy clan receive a new addition,
Seven, played by Shane Sweet.
Adding a cute kid to the cast has been a gimmick on TV sitcoms for decades,
and I can't think of a single time where it worked, at least in the long term.
Seven, the son of Peggy's hillbilly cousins,
is abandoned to the Bundy family because, as bad as life is for the Bundy's,
Peggy's side of the family, the wankers, were in an even worse state.
Although Peg would display some surprising maternal instincts,
the audience was less keen on Seven.
The show tried its best to bring Seven into the fold with the episode,
Every Bundy Has a Birthday, where the family goes to the park to celebrate Seven's birthday.
Sadly, being poor, they apparently don't get to use the public park.
The family bonds the only way they know how, by beating the crap out of another family.
There's a lot of ass-kicking in this show.
We saw a similar fight in the season 5 opener, We'll Follow the Sun.
Honey?
Jerry, don't you have anything better to do than to pick a fight with a moron?
Just who are you calling moron?
Your husband.
You painted hus-
And countless other episodes.
Sadly for Seven, even this show of family solidarity wasn't enough,
and he'd leave the cast before the end of the season.
He mysteriously vanished in the episode, Peggy and the Pirates,
where Peggy tells him a thrilling story about pirates,
including another guest appearance by David Garrison.
This was a really fun episode, we get to see Peg fall for Pirate Owl,
Peg gets to be a bit of a badass, and all sorts of fun pirate capers.
Peg finishes her story, and she's shoes Seven away, and we never see him again.
But we do get a very tiny Seven cameo in season 8,
kinda.
And before we leave season 7, in this episode titled Christmas,
we get a flashback of a very young Buck.
There's no commentary here, I just wanted to show you Puppy Buck.
Behind the scenes, in late 1993, Amanda Burz's sexuality jumped into the headlines when she
finally went public with the fact that she was gay.
At the time, Burz was the only network star who was out,
and this happened four years before Ellen DeGeneres would come out in 1997.
I suspect the low opinion critics had of Married with Children may have colored
their reactions to this moment, garnering less publicity.
As for representations of gay characters on the show, Married with Children had one
episode featuring a gay character back in season 5 in the episode titled The Dance Show.
Peggy meets a handsome stranger at a dance club, hoping to trigger some of Al's jealousy.
It doesn't really work, and Al sits at home unbothered and happy,
until Peggy's dancing partner's husband comes knocking at the door.
First off, yes, that is Dan Castellaneta, the voice of Homer Simpson, playing Pete.
And yes, he did say husband, even though gay marriage was still decades away.
That, in and of itself, is a powerful statement about gay relationships.
But I want to focus on Al's reactions to this. This moment could have gone so many ways,
and of course we begin with Al being very confused. But as he gets to know Pete,
we see a surprising reaction.
Al, motivated by Pete's cooking, storms off to the dance club and confronts Pete's husband.
Not because Peggy's scheme to make him jealous has worked,
but because he's fighting for this gay marriage to stay together.
So we have Al Bundy, a man who hates his own marriage and will help tear down anyone else's,
standing up to protect a gay marriage. There's something powerful about that,
and surprisingly socially progressive. The show does end on a sour note though.
When it comes to sexism and misogyny, the show was not quite so enlightened.
Season 8 brought us one of the most popular and one of the most problematic elements of the show,
the anti-feminist group named National Organization of Men Against Amazonian Masterhood, or
No-Mam. They debuted in an episode appropriately titled No-Mam. In this episode, Al and his buddies
are dismayed to find out that their regular bowling night has been replaced by a women's only night
thanks to the efforts of Jerry Springer. Al's reaction is less than in light.
This is indicative of a lot of small cracks Al makes when he feels threatened or challenged.
It's a low-key homophobia that undoes a lot of the positive stuff we see in episodes like
the dance show. Eventually, Al and his buddies try to ease their pain by going to their favorite
strip club, which they lovingly refer to as the Nudie Bar. When they get there though,
it's been turned into a woman's coffee house. So Al does what any man upset with losing a place
to hang out on a Thursday night would do. He forms an activist group. Eventually,
Marcy docks his Al and they get into a YouTube debate.
What's really interesting here is hearing the audience take sides when Marcy and Al's debate
reaches a crescendo.
The episode ends with Al being arrested, because he's a loser and will always lose.
But what happened here was a major meeting between the audience's love for Al and the
reactionary conservative worldview he represents. We've spent so long sympathizing with Al,
including forgiving the theft in line, so why not cheer on his anti-woman group?
Even taken most generously, Al is arguing against the idea that women are trying to
take over the world to subjugate men. But his evidence is pretty thin. He lost one night of
the week to bull, and his strip club is turned into a coffee shop. The latter seems more a
product of capitalism wanting to appeal to a market outside of horny men. It's not much of
a global feminist takeover. If this was a one-off episode, it'd be fine, but we're going to see
more of No Mem in the future. It was a huge hit with the audience married of children had
cultivated, one that saw Al as more of a hero to be cheered than a loser to be laughed at.
A major change for this season was the introduction of Al's co-worker,
Griff, played by Harold Sylvester. Season 8 had tried and failed to give Al a co-worker to
play off of at the shoe store, first with the much younger Aaron, who lasted about five episodes,
and the very short-lived Dexter, who only lasted a single episode. Neither of them had the staving
power of Griff, who would never join the principal cast, but would be a recurring character on many
episodes for the rest of the series' run. As you might have noticed, he's one of the first major
characters to be a person of color. Although technically Officer Dan appeared earlier in the
series, he didn't get a name until season 8, and only appeared on roughly a dozen episodes. Griff
would appear in over 40. While this might seem like the perfect vehicle to explore race and some
issues around that, if you think this has any chance to happening, you've obviously come to the wrong
show. Instead, we get a different kind of inclusivity, where Al's diverse group feels distinctly
post-racial, something that might have passed for liberalism back in the day. And Griff, like
all of Al's friends, becomes a member of Nomam to show a multicultural front against women. And
Nomam was out in full force this season, first with a two-parter where they took a stand against
breastfeeding in public. This two-parter introduced us to a number of characters that would populate
this series' world. First was the Hispanic reporter named, um, yeah, that. And as the only
recurring Hispanic character on the show, her being a capable journalist who seems constantly
exasperated by the nonsense around her, seems like a nice positive. Although 90% of her character is
just her sane, her complicated name. The second half of this two-parter introduced the owner of
Al's shoe store, Gary, who, shockingly, is not a man. And we see Al do the unthinkable,
grovel to a woman. This expanding world, with more guys joining Al's anti-woman group,
like Bob Rooney and Ike, are being offset by female characters who think they're a bunch of
idiots. The lines are being drawn in this world. At the time, Nomam was so popular that E.E. Bell,
the actor who played Bob Rooney, started a website that would let fans across the country register
their own Nomam groups. You write into me, tell me who your head honcho is, and who the other
guys in your branch are, and I'll list them on a webpage. And that lasted about a year and a half
until I got to where it was like two hours a night for me to just do the emails on this,
although Nomam mania was taking off, serious co-creator Michael Moy,
who returned to the show this season, wasn't too bothered by what that might mean.
Moy even pitched a Nomam spinoff, though network executives balked at the idea of giving this
group of characters a show of their own and didn't get nearly as far as other failed spinoff
attempts. Speaking of failed spinoffs, this season featured another one, this one titled
Radio Free Tremaine, which tried to get a show about a college radio station off the ground.
It was notable for two things. The first, that it featured the return of David Garrison, once again
playing Steve Rhodes. And second, in that it featured a very young Carrie Russell before she
would star in Felicity. This spinoff never even got the courtesy of a six-episode run.
It was dead with the pilot. This will be David Garrison's last appearance on the series,
though I prefer to remember him from his appearance a few episodes earlier in
Get the Dodge Outta Hell, where he got one of the longest ovations in the series' history.
Ron Leavitt, Siri's co-creator, left Married with Children for good after the ninth season.
He would move over to the WB, where he would help put together a Married with Children-esque sitcom
named Unhappily Ever After. A modest success, reaching 100 episodes, but it was fittingly
called a Married with Children ripoff. Without a doubt, the most difficult
change in season 10 was one surrounding, beloved family dog, Buck. We could see Buck getting older
in previous seasons as he was slowly going blind and suffering some cognitive delay.
I've got to prove to him that I'm not senile. I know. I'll bury a bone. That'll show him.
Now, if I can just find a bone...
Excuse me, madam.
In season 10, this all came to a head in the tragically titled, Requiem for a Dead Briard.
The episode opens with us learning that Buck has passed away. Luckily, this is merely Buck,
the TV character, not the real dog, who got to appear in this episode where he goes to heaven.
But this dog won't be going to heaven. He instead gets reincarnated as a puppy named Lucky.
And this dog's family is... well...
Those voices sound oddly familiar. If I could just get these newborn eyes to focus...
I'm your baby.
Noooooo!
This episode isn't much, but it ends on a sweet note from the producers wishing the dog who played
Buck, also named Buck, the best of luck in his retirement. According to show co-creator Michael
Moy, there was some concern over Buck as he was already 12 years old and was experiencing pain
having to go up and down the stairs, so they thought it best that he be set free to enjoy
some much deserved rest. Later interviews with Buck reveal a possible sore point between him
and Lucky. I have nothing to say about Lucky. Buck's replacement Lucky would continue to be
voiced by Kevin Carran throughout the season, though by the 11th the internal monologues would
be dropped entirely. As for Buck, sadly he would pass away a week after the 10th season ended,
hopefully in a happy place, and he will be fondly remembered as a very good boy.
Married with Children was a trailblazer that included a few instances of trans representation.
Although a smaller role in season 9's Dud Bowl, we met the quarterback from Al's high school
football team. We get the obligatory shocked moment from her former teammates, including a
very creepy move by Al. But generally the characters are pretty cool with it, particularly Peggy and
Marcy. And what's she doing here? I am here in support of my sister in arms, Dad. I hope that
she wins and somehow you don't. Dad is able to take her old position of quarterback and is
generally welcomed on the team. She not only gets to throw what would have been the winning
touchdown, had Al not messed it up, but she even gets to punch out a transphobe. I'm sad.
I'm Thor.
Still got your arm, Dad? You make the call.
This was fairly ahead of the curve for 1994. Season 10 gave us another trans character.
Once again a trans woman, but this time instead of a cis man wearing a wig,
this character was played by a cis female, Krista Allen. She's a student at Bud's college,
who he's trying to convince to pose for a pin-up calendar. We don't find out the truth about her
until the end. It's time for my family and the rest of the world to see the person I've become.
Bud Bundy has made me proud to be a woman who was born a man.
Although we only ever find out this character is trans at the very end, as a punchline,
what's interesting is how the show handles it. This could have led to some transphobic commentary,
but instead we get silence. The message here is pretty clear that society isn't ready for a trans
woman and the shock is overwhelming for these average cis men. Is it overtly transphobic though?
This episode firmly establishes that sexual attraction is entirely possible between cis
and trans people if only cis characters were going to ignore their prejudices. It also,
at the very least, makes trans people visible, not pretending they don't exist.
But the unspoken side of things does highlight the dark side of trans acceptance in the mid-90s.
It couldn't be overtly protrans, and in that silence basic anti-trans assumptions reign supreme.
Calendars fail, the guys are grossed out, and Bud is embarrassed, having made out with a trans
woman. It makes my evaluation of, it could have been worse, seem a bit tepid. Also though we did
get two trans women characters in Married with Children, I didn't see any trans men, a group
that suffered greatly from a lack of visibility, and that's still a problem we deal with today.
The last note I have on season 10 is the final attempt at a spin-off for the series, this time
Enemies, a rough parody of Friends, starring Nicole Eggert and Matt Borlangi.
It wasn't very good, aside from watching the Darcy's try to speak to a black person.
Yeah, but he's not here, so it's a no, Bundy!
Final season of the show ended things more on a whimper than a bang. Both of the show's creators
had left at this point, and Fox showed a lack of care for the health of the series by moving its
time slot several times throughout the season. A devastating move in an era when time slots created
predictability for an audience so they could manage their time in a way that let them watch
their favorite shows. Ratings started to drop dramatically, and rising production costs meant
this season would be the show's last. Not that anyone involved with the production had any idea.
With the series' creators both gone, Married with Children was without either of the voices
that had guided it through the previous seasons. Al and Peg, who for the first time in 11 seasons
break things off in a three-parter titled Breaking Up is Easy to Do. In it, a typical marital spat
where Al reveals that he's forgotten the first time he and Peg had sex eventually leads to disaster.
It sure is. I'm moving out, Peg. And much like that empty promise to shave those shoulders,
I'll believe it when I see it. You'll be wishing you had these shaggy shoulders to cry on Peg.
We then see Al and Peg try to enjoy their lives as single people.
Al eventually tries to win back Peg from her new boyfriend, Bruce, played by Alan Thicke.
Gee, Peg, you really have a new boyfriend.
Well, this is an awkward moment. Fortunately, I'm so self-centered it's not going to bother me.
When the kids find out their new stepdad expects them to get jobs,
they use some Bundy Cell rhetoric to get rid of him.
And eventually, Al and Peg patch things up.
A surprisingly sweet episode, at least for any other season, but season 11 was unusually sweet
overall. Maybe it was the show's creators being gone for good, but the show definitely felt like
it lost much of its cynical edge at this point. While no one wants to see Al and Peg split up,
the way they got back together seemed almost muddlin'. It could have worked in any other
season, but this one was already so filled with sentimental moments that it just got lost in a
sea of sappiness. At least, by Married with Children standards. The last two-parter of the
series, often mistakenly thought of as the finale, features Kelly falling in love with a rich man,
Lonnie, played by Charles Esten. They meet when Lonnie's soon-to-be ex takes the Bundy family
hostage. Lonnie very quickly proposes.
Kelly soon gives up her promiscuous ways. But Al learns that Lonnie doesn't respect
Kelly after seeing him at the nudie bar. But eventually, Lonnie makes a move on
Marcy and everything begins to crumble.
This would have been a fitting finale. The institution of marriage is upheld as requiring
love and not being an expression of temporary lust. We get some Bund unity and some commentary
on the rich seeing people as disposable commodities, even husbands and wives. While the poor stay
together because they need one another to get through tough times. Marriage is something you
should only do if you can withstand the challenge. Not a bad sentiment, but some marriages should end
and the fact that poor people have to cling together to withstand those bad times, as seen
in the many ways the Bundies band together to fight outside threats, keeps these toxic
relationships going. Or more accurately, makes these loving relationships toxic. When you're in
a loving unit, embattled by the harsh world around you, it's hard not to let some of that harsh world
seep inside yourself and affect the people around you. It would have been a decent enough ending,
but there would be one more episode for the series. A forgettable caper involving Al bartering shoes.
All of the episode did end on a pretty cool final scene.
Married with Children came to an end.
Someone else heard it on the radio and then called me
to tell me that the show was canceled. I'm like wow 11 years and I find out from Mark and Brian
that's that's a trip. I was in Ohio at a bed and breakfast and a honeymoon couple
approached me in the parking lot as I was getting in my car and said, I'm sorry Dr. Shaw.
I said really? Oh you didn't know it's on fee it was canceled. So I said oh really? So I took
you got married. I took him in the bottom and drank a little champagne. I said I prefer to
hear it from you. You think a show that ran as long as it did that had the impact that it had
on launching a network might have been sent off with a little more hurrah but you know
business is business. So we never got a final episode which I thought was extremely unfair
seeing as we were one of the first shows there. I mean we were at the network before the Simpsons
were there. Although we never got a final episode the cast did share a few of their ideas of how it
all should have ended. I'd like to see everybody blown up. Al wins the lottery and uh for like
20 million you pick a number and they're dancing around in the living room and like a tornado
comes in like like the Wizard of Oz you know and then all that's left is a big hole. And the house
comes back down on you know Marcy's body and you just see her little feet coming out. Whatever would
happen Jefferson would end up by himself on an island with a you know a cocktail an umbrella
and several bikini-clad women and uh living the good life and the rest of them would be you know
hell somewhere. That's one desperate little chimp huh. The through line of the series I found most
prominent was the evolution of Al going from the loser the audience laughed at to the loser
audience grew to love and support and while Al himself changed very little the audience around
him seemed to more closely align with how he saw the world. I don't think married with children
mainstreamed reactionary politics though. More likely I think it attracted people already
inclined towards them. The serious tact to the very real feelings people had and continue to have.
The feelings of people who once felt the world was their birthright suddenly realizing that
life isn't going to turn out the way they thought it would. In that way married with children can
help contextualize this feeling in a way that perhaps isn't helpful when it's just being mocked.
Sure we can laugh at how silly Al and the other Bundys are but can we not want them to do better
too and maybe do better in a way that isn't just tearing down the people around them. Maybe it can
help motivate us to try and make a better world where people won't feel a connection to families
like the Bundys. As much as we like to pretend these bitter feelings of the Bundys don't exist
they have a way of encroaching into our lives and that's what this show does so well. It screams at
the audience letting us know that these people exist they live amongst us and to some of us it
may be downright relatable. And as a small coda to that though there is a wonderful irony in a show
giving voice to the voiceless reactionary working-class white man even though there aren't many
characters like the Bundys on TV they still got to have a show. Other marginalized groups even some
depicted on the show weren't so lucky. I've often heard it said that shows like Married with Children
could never be put on the air today because of how politically correct everything is. That's sort of
true but the only reason it got on the air in the 80s was because it slipped through the cracks of
an upstart network. Married with Children in many ways set the tone for Vox being raunchy and rude
it paved the way for future unconventional sitcoms such as The Simpsons and Malcolm in the Middle with
their unconventional takes on the family dynamic. The stars of the show mostly had success following
the end of the series. Ed O'Neill started a handful of projects and it was at one point nearly cast
as Al Swearingen on HBO's Deadwood. Role had actually been written for him by the series creator
but apparently his time on Married with Children had too closely associated him with Al Bundy,
a running theme over the years in his career. O'Neill did eventually get cast on Modern Family
which went on to run for 11 seasons just like Married with Children although Modern Family
was a few episodes shorter when it ended in 2020. Also one of my favorite fun facts about Ed O'Neill
is his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame is in front of a shoe store. Katie Skoll would go on to
appear in a number of shows including 8 Simple Rules where she starred opposite John Ritter for
3 seasons. She probably had her most lauded performance though as Gemma in Sons of Anarchy
which ran for 7 seasons. I'll probably remember her most fondly as the voice of Leela on Futurama.
Too bad they weren't giving away the three things you actually need.
Mouthwash, a back wax, and stain proof underwear.
Christina Applegate was the breakout star after Married with Children ended. She starred in
Jesse, Samantha Who, Up All Night, and a number of other roles on TV and film
but she never quite landed in a project that made use of her talents. However, she did have one very
important triumph. When she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008 she would undergo a double
mastectomy. Quite happily she was able to make a recovery and is currently cancer free. Most
recently she's starring in the Netflix series Dead to Me. David Faustino's career post Married with
Children has been a bit more low key. Although he did have the singular honor of working alongside
John Bon Jovi in 2006's National Lapoons Pucked, he did star in his own original web series Starving
which ran for two seasons and featured cameos from Married with Children Castmates.
Faustino currently works as a DJ. Amanda Burst would transition into a directorial role
only occasionally taking a few small acting jobs. She eventually moved east leaving Hollywood and
most of the world of show business behind her. Of all the cast members she seems the least connected
to her previous role. David Garrison's return to the world of theater saw him starring in a number
of productions though most notably he played the wizard in the Broadway production of Wicked.
Though he would often get called back to the world of TV to do a few guest spots under his programs
he managed to split his time appearing in a number of different stage productions as well.
Burst and Garrison had a very weird cameo together in 2001 on the TV series Nikki. The series starred
Nikki Cox who got her first major role on Unhappily Ever After which was created by Married
with Children co-creator Ron Levitt. Burst and Garrison reprised the roles as the Rhodeses.
Ted McGinley would continue his lengthy career on TV most notably joining a sitcom at the beginning
of its run for a change when he starred alongside Faith Ford and Kelly Ripa in Hope and Faith.
More recently he seems to have cashed in on the Christian movie circuit appearing in films such as
Christmas with a capital C, Do You Believe, and God's Not Dead, A Light in Darkness.
The show's co-creator Ron Levitt sadly passed away in 2008 of lung cancer. The last project he
worked on was the WB's The Help. He's survived by his two children and his partner who he met while
filming Married with Children. Michael Moy, the other co-creator of the show, has largely left
the world of show business. He very much felt like the encroachment of political correctness
was stifling the brand of comedy he enjoyed so for his own sanity he retired and currently lives
happily with his family. You know I can't write a sitcom or any type of comedy if I now have to
factor in that this just may offend someone because I've always thought by its very nature
comedy has to kind of be slightly offensive. It doesn't have to be mean-spirited. You don't
sit there and just tear down someone. Though there have been rumblings about a Married with
Children reboot, most notably one rumored in 2016 starring David Faustino, it hasn't quite materialized.
From what little I could find about the subject, there seems to be some kind of legal dispute
around Ron Levitt's estate preventing it from happening. With much of the cast available,
aside from possibly Christina Applegate, it seems like the perfect time for a reunion.
So far that just doesn't seem to be in the cards though. Married with Children would live on in
the world of syndication for decades but it also found life around the world and the number of
international versions of the show. They were married with children remakes from over a dozen
countries. The UK version gave us the rare treat of an American show being shipped overseas to be
ruined by local TV producers. Here's an excruciating clip. With what I earn, I keep you in bleach,
I keep you in binoculars, I keep you instead of someone I'd rather be married to
and I pay my national insurance for a nice little pension at the end of it all.
At school they said by the time you retire there won't be any state pensions.
You're not going to come and live with us are you dad?
Did I tell you today that I love you? No. Exactly. So why should I choose to live with you when I can
sleep rough and die of exposure? The UK series mercifully only lasted seven episodes. The other
versions had varying degrees of success though none did as well as the Russian version which ran
for six seasons totaling 365 episodes. The series adapted episodes from the original version of the
show but when they ran out they had a contest where fans sent in their own original ideas.
They even managed to get a few original episodes from the original writing staff of the American
version of Married with Children. Al Bundy will go down in history as an iconic TV character as
part of a series that shaped a network and took the sitcom format in a bold new direction.
It's a series of its time that's somehow timeless so long as there is an angry man sitting on his
couch bitter that the world just isn't what it used to be. Al Bundy will speak to that person.
There's one popular clip of the show on YouTube where Al Bundy sums up his life in depressing
fashion. It's taken from a season three episode. He thought he could. Every morning when I wake up
I know it's not going to get any better until I go back to sleep again. So I get up, have my
watered down tang and still frozen pop tart, get in my car with no upholstery no gas and six more
payments to fight traffic just for the privilege of putting cheap shoes on the cloven hooves of
people like you. I'll never play football like I thought I would. I'll never know the touch of a
beautiful woman and I'll never again know the joy of driving without a bag on my head.
But I'm not a loser because despite it all, me and every other guy who will never be what he
wanted to be are still out there being what we don't want to be 40 hours a week for life.
And the fact that I haven't put a gun in my mouth you pudding of a woman makes me a winner.
The speech is the moment that takes Al from the loser we laugh at to the loser we cheer for.
This sort of speech would fall flat to deaf ears but for one of Al's fellow travelers or one who
just admires his gumption it's the bitter scream to the world to remind them that people like Al
still exist. They're here and they're daring us with the question what are you gonna do about it?
This was by far the largest project I've ever worked on. It is not only the longest script,
it is the most content I've ever had to watch for a video. Nearly 260 episodes of television and
multiple TV specials, news articles, and all sorts of behind the scenes bits of information that I
had to consume for this one. It was made possible by the generous donations of my patrons whose
names you can see on the screen now. If you'd like to be one of these fine people you can head
over to my patreon and donate. Five dollar tier will also get you a download of my theme song
and advance access to future videos like this one. If you'd like to support this channel in a way
that doesn't cost you anything you can like, comment, subscribe, and hit the bell. I appreciate
anyone who does so has my thanks. Anyone who watches this video has my thanks. Basically just
thank you everyone.
