In March of 2018, the Roseanne TV series was revived for a tenth season,
picking up the exploits of the Connor family 20 years after the series' original finale.
We all know what happened a few months later. Roseanne made a racist tweet,
the show was immediately cancelled, and we were dragged into a hail of anger and fury.
What was lost in the noise, though, was the show itself, and for all the outreach over Roseanne
being fired, there wasn't much discussion about the tenth season of her show and what it was all
about, or what the preceding nine seasons were about for that matter. Roseanne was a free speech
martyr for the right, despite starring in a show that had much to say from the left.
I think it's important to acknowledge that a TV show is a collaborative effort,
comprising the work of hundreds of people. While you can't discount the person who
is divorced behind it, you also can't treat the two as synonymous. That said,
I can't completely discount the words and actions of Roseanne Barr,
specifically when it comes to how she put her show together.
So if you enjoy watching someone wrestle with whether or not art can be untangled from the
artist, you're going to have some fun in this video.
This story starts back in the late 1980s. The Roseanne show started as the vague idea of a
series starring a working-class woman from producers Marcy Carsey and Tom Wartner. The
pair had recently helped create the Cosby Show for NBC. They planned on creating this
working-class series with a writer from the Cosby Show, Matt Williams, this time for rival network
ABC. At the same time, one of the hottest rising stars in the stand-up comedy world was a woman
named Roseanne Barr. Originally from Salt Lake City, she began a career performing stand-up across
Colorado, drawing from her life as a wife and mother of three children. Often referring to
herself as a domestic goddess, Barr's work was charged with a fighting attitude that immediately
made her a star. A tape of her stand-up found its way into the hands of Mitzi Shore, owner of the
fabled Los Angeles Comedy Club, the Comedy Store. Roseanne Barr's appearance at the Comedy Store
led to an appearance on The Tonight Show, a national tour, and an HBO special. Barr was the
perfect fit for the new Carsey Wartner sitcom. This all happened in the space of about five years.
And so the Roseanne show was born. Almost.
One of the inescapable facts about talking about the Roseanne show is that you cannot escape
talking about the backstage drama, and it began even before the first episode aired. The first
major conflict was between Roseanne Barr and writer Matt Williams. Originally, the first draft
for the pilot episode was for a show titled Life and Stuff, which focused on the stories of three
women. A married woman with kids, a divorced woman with a kid, and a childless single woman,
all working at a factory in Indiana, something taken from Williams's personal background.
When Barr entered the project, she reshaped the series entirely, including changing the name of
the series to Roseanne, and having her character, the married woman with children, be the focal
point for the series. According to Barr, the reason Williams hadn't made her the star of the series was
because Williams had told her, I just don't think people would like you as the main character.
Speaking to the LA Times in 1989, Williams gave full credit to Roseanne Barr for the character
Roseanne Connor, who she played on the show. He also credits her with bringing a feminist
perspective to the series, but the official credit for creating the show, as decided by
the Screenwriters Guild, would still go to Williams. This infuriated Barr. The pilot was
rewritten with the series now named Roseanne, and Life and Stuff was dropped to the episode
title, and Roseanne Connor would be the focus of the show now, with the other two women being
devoted to the supporting cast as her sister Jackie and friend Crystal. An unproven actress,
the producers chose to surround Roseanne Barr with experienced actors. Although Barr had originally
wanted her comedian friend Tom Arnold to play her husband on the show, the role was instead given
to John Goodman. The chemistry between Goodman and Barr was instantaneous, and he was chosen
to be Dan Connor within moments of his audition beginning. I pump those brakes to make sure they
grab. If they don't grab, I ruin the guy in front of me. I get a ticket. Our insurance premiums go
up. We go broke trying to pay them. Our children end up in a poor house. We starve. That's why I
pump the brakes. Okay, well, just tell me one thing. What? Why do you pump the brakes?
You know, Rosie.
The pair had instant chemistry, and the character of Dan Connor was born. Another major addition
to the cast was Laurie Metcalf, chosen for the role of Jackie Harris, Roseanne Connor's sister.
In a cast of talented actors, Metcalf was the only one to win multiple Emmys,
with three wins for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series from 1992 to 1994.
The Connor family was completed with Alicia Lacey Gorenson as eldest daughter Becky,
Sarah Gilbert as middle child Darlene, and Michael Fishman as the youngest Connor kid,
David Jacob, or DJ. A few regulars would join the cast, such as Roseanne's friend Crystal,
played by Natalie West, and Roseanne's sometimes boss and Jackie's sometimes romantic interest,
Booker Brooks, played by George Clooney. Yes, that George Clooney. At the center of this cast
was Roseanne Barr, playing Roseanne Connor, an abrasive working-class woman who held her family
together with love, humor, and grit. I'll do everything else like I always do. I'll have to
get off work an hour early, lose an hour's pay, totally rearrange my whole schedule,
but I don't mind. Unlike sitcoms of an earlier era, this wasn't a household run by a father who
knew best, but a mother who knew better, and the first episode set the stage for a series that
would bring an American audience new perspectives on the working class, feminism, and what it meant
to fight for everything you've got. A guy is a lump like this donut. Okay, so first you gotta
get rid of all the stuff his mom did to him. And then you gotta get rid of all that macho crap
that they pick up from the beer commercial. And then there's my personal favorite, the male ego.
The first episode establishes our working-class family, and from the very beginning you can tell
this won't be like other shows. Roseanne isn't this sweet, put-together mother of other sitcoms.
She's loud, has a sharp tongue, and is rather heavy set. In other words, she's the exact sort
of person you wouldn't expect to see as the star of a primetime sitcom. Roseanne Connor works full
time in a plastics factory, but her second shift starts when she gets home, holding together her
household as a working mother. Her husband, Dan, doesn't do much to help out around the house when
he's off work from his struggling drywalling business. The kids are loud, bratty, and talk
back to their parents. In 2018, this isn't particularly groundbreaking stuff, but in 1988
this was far less common. Families were happy little units on TV, like you might see on shows
such as Full House or Growing Pains. On those shows, the teasing was gentler, and parents didn't
treat their kids like annoying brats. Perhaps most importantly, we were being invited to laugh
alongside the Conners, rather than at them, as an audience might do instead to other shows depicting
the working class, such as Married with Children. And look at the aesthetics of this show. The
Conners dress poorly, their food is shitty, and their furniture doesn't match. These aren't the
proper homes you might see on other shows depicting a happy middle class. These are firmly
working class people. In the first episode we get a sense of what money means to the Connor clan
when Darlene gets in trouble for barking in class. Your daughter barks. Our whole family barks!
Roseanne has to plead with Booker for some time off, and when she does loses part of her paycheck.
To the Conners, money is always a major concern. Not for luxuries or greed, but to pay for the
basics of what they need to survive. The struggle of holding the family together has real consequences
too, as Roseanne and Dan constantly argue from gentle teasing to full-on fights.
But the episode closes with Darlene getting hurt, and both parents springing to action to help her.
This encapsulates so much of what the show is about, a working class family being stretched
thin by economic demands, only held together by the love they have for one another.
The Conners have to hold on to each other to survive in a society where working class people,
and women in particular, are being worked to the bone. It's a damning critique of 1980s America,
and in 2018 it still holds some resonance. By the end of its first season, it would be the second
highest rated show on television, right behind the Cosby Show. The feminism of the first season is
also in sharp display, particularly the episode Nightmare on Oak Street, which featured what has
now become a sitcom cliché, Darlene getting her first period. An especially interesting choice,
considering Darlene was very much the tomboy of the family, and this step into womanhood created
a struggle with how she saw herself and how the world expected her to behave as a woman.
We even get some pushback against toxic masculinity in the episode
Dan's Birthday Bash, where Roseanne demands Dan not get into a fight with some asshole at a bar
on his birthday. Roseanne and Dan end up having a frank conversation about getting older
and a vision of manhood that doesn't involve fighting people.
I really liked how in this episode, Roseanne's birthday gift to Dan is an anchor. The symbolism
would be damning if it weren't for the fact that the anchor is for Dan's pet project, building a
boat in their garage. A superficial reading here has the anchor tying Dan down and limiting his
freedom, but a deeper understanding shows you that this anchor is in some ways what Dan has always
wanted. A disappointing twist to this episode, and one of the first real signs that this show
is of its time, is that Dan ends up going back to the bar towards the end of the episode and
beating up the asshole anyway. His violence is a product of its time, and an example of how,
as progressive as Roseanne was, it's still a show from 30 years ago, and there are certain
artifacts that don't age well. Here's another example. In the episode Lovers Lane, Booker and
Jackie have a friendly bet. If I win, then you have to spend the night in my place. What if you win?
Then you spend the night in my place. Sounds good. Scrubbing my bathroom.
Alright, whatever gets you in the mood. Is that a bet? Yeah. Yeah.
I assume Booker means he wants to have sex with Jackie and not stay up reading the Bible together.
The episode makes it clear that they're both attracted to each other, but we still
get these vaguely, to be honest, rapey vibes. Would you really want me there against my will?
Absolutely. Booker does redeem himself. Not on a bet. Not tonight, and not on a bet.
But it's still not the sort of thing I'd imagine many guys saying while flirting with someone.
Not a guy who isn't a complete scumbag. As we'll see even more pointedly as we go through the
series, Roseanne is a show that does a lot of good things, but never completely escapes the
context of its time. And for a modern audience to appreciate it, or get anything out of it,
it's important to keep that in mind. While halfway through the first season,
the show seemed to be sailing along smoothly, behind the scenes things were starting to reach
a breaking point. While filming the fourth episode, Roseanne Barr was outraged that her
wardrobe requests were the only ones being ignored. According to Barr herself, she took a
pair of scissors, went to one of the producers responsible, and threatened her saying,
Bitch, do you want me to cut you? Barr also kept a prominently displayed list in her office that
had a title reading, These are the people who are going to be fired if they're not nice to me.
People who I am the boss of. Everybody. All producers, all writers, all subject to change.
She updated the list regularly. Roseanne Barr and writer Matt Williams continued to feud behind the
scenes, with Barr often refusing to read lines. Barr gave the executive producers an ultimatum.
It was her or Williams. One of them had to go. An agreement was reached with Williams,
and by episode 13, he left the show forever. One of the ideas credited to Williams was the setting
of a plastics factory, where Roseanne, Jackie, and Crystal worked. This artifact of his tenure
would only last until the end of the first season, but not before providing a great season finale.
In Let's Call It Quits, tensions at the workplace boil over when Booker is replaced by Keith Faber,
a hard-ass boss played by former diehard villain and Republican presidential nominee hopeful,
Fred Thompson. He not only applies harsh work quotas, he also picks on his employees.
Will you hold this for a minute? Honey, I'm not here to hold.
I'm here to supervise. And in particular, he wants to break Roseanne Connor.
Now, my brother has this dairy farm. You know, some of those cows take the
milk and ride off. Some of them take a little longer.
Every once in a while, you run across a real stubborn. But you know what?
Sooner or later, they all give milk.
Eventually, Faber breaks Roseanne, getting her to agree to show him some respect
in exchange for lower work quotas.
Yes. Yes, what?
Yes, we have a deal.
Sir.
But quotas still go back up.
So what are you raising our quotas to?
Nothing you girls can't handle. We're going to try 8,000 again.
And I have every confidence that you girls can cut the mustard.
And if you can't, then nice working with you.
In the final scene of the season, not counting a post-credits scene, Roseanne leads a walkout.
You okay, sis?
No, I'm not okay. I mean, I tried to be okay, but he doesn't want me to be okay.
He doesn't want any of us to be okay. You know why? Because he's not okay.
Roseanne, I told you not to walk away from me.
I'm walking away from you, Faber, and I'm walking away from the stick of the factory.
I'm walking away from this lousy job.
Well, that was a wonderful performance, Roseanne.
But if any of you are considering joining her, may I point out there are two doors to this room,
one that pays and one that doesn't.
I guess we're not going to make our quota today.
Honey Bunch.
Roseanne quitting, on her own, would have meant little, but a massive movement of workers
standing together in solidarity? That sounds like the beginning of a real political change.
In season two, Tom Arnold joined the show as a writer.
The controversial decision didn't sit well with the other writers,
who were told to teach him how to write a sitcom.
Safford Vila, a writer for the show at the time, says,
We all thought he was 100% talent free.
Arnold was Barr's man on the inside, as Barr didn't spend too much time in the writer's room,
and she was worried the writers would push her show in a direction she didn't like.
Barr would have a contentious relationship with her writing staff throughout the show's run.
In Vila's mind, it was really just fighting for power in the voice of the show.
This is also the season the show hit number one in the ratings.
After Roseanne Connor left her job at the Plastics Factory,
she took another selling magazine subscriptions over the phone.
She also briefly worked in a salon.
The salon job led Roseanne to confront her boss's boss from the first season, Mrs. Wellman,
the owner of the Plastics Factory Roseanne once worked at.
Mrs. Wellman can't even be bothered to remember Roseanne's name.
The two really collide, if you'll excuse the pun,
in an episode titled Fenderbender, where Mrs. Wellman hits Roseanne with her car.
The Connor family is quick to review their legal options,
but the only lawyer they can afford is apparently this hapless loser played by Stephen Root.
In response to a legal threat, Mrs. Wellman tries to buy her way out.
Mrs. Wellman effectively avoids any threat from the law because she can afford a better attorney.
Once again, the working class are shown at a disadvantage in a system that supposedly
protects them. The two-tiered justice system is a difficult concept to unpack,
but in 20 minutes you can see this little TV episode explain it clearly.
I also want to highlight this little line.
Even though you no longer work for the company, we still think of you as part of the Wellman family.
I don't suppose my health insurance is still good.
Roseanne needs medical insurance.
The fact that someone hitting you with a car leaves you with a bill is cruel.
The symbolism of it being her former boss who treated her like garbage can't be understated.
Producer for the show Tom Warner arranged to have Roseanne Barr sing the national anthem
at a San Diego Padres game on July 25th, 1990. This is what it sounded like.
People were unimpressed. There was enough backlash to get Barr to stop touring,
and the president of the United States, George H.W. Bush, called it disgraceful. Although the
national anthem disaster would have slowed down other shows, that wasn't the case for season 3.
It premiered with strong ratings, continuing the trend of being viewed by over 20 million
Americans every week, and like a virgin, the topic of sexuality and birth control comes up.
It's a difficult subject to talk about, not just because it's centered on sex,
but because it's specifically about female sexuality.
Why do women feel the need to downplay their sexual history around men?
The opposite is rarely true. It speaks to the old-fashioned attitudes of Roseanne and Dan's
generation.
This is a nice demonstration of how social change isn't something that happens overnight,
but rather is a generational thing. On the theme of teenage sex, season 3 also sees the introduction
of Mark, played by Glenn Quinn in Becky, Beds, and Boys. This episode also establishes Roseanne's
new job, working as a waitress at a mall restaurant. Season 3 also introduced Leon,
Roseanne's boss at the restaurant played by Martin Mall, and the episode Dances with Darlene,
we find out something interesting about Leon.
Although he's certainly not the first gay character to appear on a sitcom,
Leon is one of the few who wasn't a cheap stereotype. Back in season 2, the episode
Born to Be Wild introduced an old friend of Dan and Roseanne, Ziggy, played by J.O. Sanders.
It was a good episode where Dan and Roseanne confront the rebellious past and see how they've
been fit into their less-dramatic present. It ends with Ziggy helping Dan restore his old bike.
Roseanne and Dan holding onto their past in some ways explains what informs this show,
the rebellion of the 60s, and activism that, at the time of the show's airing,
is already 20 years behind the times. This isn't to say something still can't be learned,
but the romance of the past can create blind spots for the present. Ziggy embodies a romanticized
version of their past. In season 3, Ziggy makes a return with an opportunity for the present.
With some of Ziggy's backing and a second mortgage on the house,
it looks like it's going to happen, but Ziggy gets cold feet.
Ziggy, in this episode, is a counterpoint to what I said earlier about romanticizing the past.
He's shown to be a coward. He lacks the maturity that can make a dream attainable,
even if he does stumble into the means. The friendship ends poorly.
And while Dan doesn't want to give up on his dream, even if he has to do it solo,
the economic reality of his situation is that even risking everything isn't risking enough.
This isn't the only time we've seen the Conners want to roll the dice for a better future,
but a running theme of this series is that working class people can be screwed over by
the many sad facts of their realities, many of them not of their own making. But maybe not this
time. During the credits Darlene finds an envelope on the fridge, Ziggy's share of the investment
money gifted to his former friend. It's a sweet gesture, and one that gives Dan the chance to
chase his dream in the next season. How exactly do other working class people get an angel investor
like this? Although that's kind of a useless question because this blessing will just give
us further lessons on why it sucks to be working class in America.
One of the major threads through season four is Darlene's battle with depression.
In the season's fourth episode, Darlene fades to black, we're greeted with a despondent Darlene,
shed of her tomboyish persona, and instead now a couch-dwelling misanthrope. What's telling about
this is that there's no trauma, no sudden major life event, no crippling moment of realization.
We just see Darlene, and she's depressed.
Rosanne and Dan are at a loss on how to cope with her daughter's new depression.
The episode ends without any touching family moment or chance for Darlene to recover.
Depression isn't solved so easily. This is yet another way the Rosanne show departed from other
sitcoms. Problems weren't solved at the end of every episode. Things didn't always magically
get better with a heart-to-heart conversation with a loving parent. In this episode, mental
illness and invisible invader shows up in their lives, and they're completely incapable of handling
it. By the next episode, Darlene seems to be somewhat back to normal.
But the black clothes she started wearing remain.
Much like the way depression works in real life, there are good days and there are bad ones.
A few episodes later, Thanksgiving 91, Darlene has a bad day. We get a few touching scenes that
show how Darlene's parents are still reaching out to her. They won't give up on their daughter.
Confronted with Darlene's pain, we see what any
parents would do. They try to comfort her in any way they can, but perhaps more telling is how
ill-equipped they are to do it. The word depression is rarely used in these episodes, as if the
vocabulary of mental illness is out of their reach. In later episodes, this period in Darlene's life
would be referred to as her mood. For a working class family like the Connors, they literally
don't have the language to explain Darlene's problem. It may be generational, a class issue,
or just an overall social ignorance about depression in 1991, but it's another sign
of how the Connors are out of touch with what their kids need in a modern world.
But it isn't for a lack of caring, but rather a painful reality of the limitations of what it
means to be a parent and how being working class makes parenting that much harder. They can't
afford to send Darlene to a therapist or fall back on some sort of post-secondary education
to inform them of what's happening. They have to make do with what they've got, and what they've
got, sadly, isn't quite enough. Although he was called Kevin in his first appearance, the episode
The Bowling Show brought Johnny Galecki into the cast as Mark's younger brother, eventually named
David. He would go on to be a major player, not just in Darlene's life as a love interest,
but in the Connor household in general. Season four ends with the episode Aliens,
which brings with it a reckoning on the challenges of being a working class parent in the early 90s.
More so than the struggles with their daughters' sex lives and mental health, the Connors have
always struggled with providing for their family. While the Connor kids can expect the basics of
food, clothing, and shelter, what about the opportunity to have a better life than their
parents? The two main threads of this episode are DJ competing in, and eventually winning,
a spelling bee. And the other, more important one is Dan's bike shop, funded at the end of season
three, is now shutting down. Dan just couldn't get it to work out, and Becky is learning the ugly
truth. Please tell me there's a college fund. Well, there was, but... So even if I get into
these schools, I can't afford to go? Becky, it has been a really bad year. I can't believe this.
I mean, we may not have exactly been able to spoil her, but she still had it pretty good.
As good as we wanted her to. The episode tries to wrap things up in a happy ending of sorts,
but season five won't be leaving this thread alone. And perhaps the one true victory of this
episode, the credits scene features the character Arnie being abducted by aliens, forever ensuring
that Tom Arnold will not appear on the show. I've spared you clips of this guy as much as I could
throughout this video, but this marks a good fucking riddance to the worst part of the Rose
Dan show. The man was a comedy black hole, sucking in any and all humor that surrounded him into an
endless, unfunny void of misery. Season five opens up with terms of estrangement, a two-parter that's
one of my favorites. Dan is forced to close down his bike shop, proving that dream of pulling
yourself up by your own bootstraps is an illusion. Your mother and I have decided to close the bike
shop. We're going on a business sale and locking the doors on Friday. And I don't have a job,
so that means no income. When Dan has to fire Becky's boyfriend, Mark, who had been helping
at the shop, Mark quickly lands on his feet and is offered a new job. Only it's in another state,
which means he would have to leave Becky. This leads to a scene where Becky tears Dan to fucking
pieces.
The episode ends with Becky and Mark running off to Minnesota to elope.
The next episode picks up with Becky returning home to pick up her belongings. Since leaving
home, Dan has been unable to speak to his daughter.
But it isn't that Dan is mad at Becky so much as that he's upset with himself.
The episode ends with Becky departing, but instead of that last minute tearful goodbye,
Dan can't bear to face his daughter. Once again we don't get an easy resolution,
and there is a heavy emphasis on parents failing their children. In this case,
it's Dan being unable to provide for his daughter because he took a gamble and tried to start a
business. While a crueler interpretation would say Dan is a bad businessman and deserves failure,
the real question is, does Becky deserve to be punished because of that? Does a thoughtful,
academically successful young woman not deserve the chance to better her life with a higher
education because her father made a bad business decision? Rich people make bad business decisions
every day, sometimes losing more money in a day than Dan Connor lost in the year he ran his bike
shop. They can afford to screw up. Dan Connor can't. This illustrates the bind of the working
class that even when you have the chance to make something of your life, if you make a mistake,
you don't just let yourself down, you could potentially let your whole family down.
Dan and Becky patching things up was inevitable. They had a good relationship,
not so easily discarded over a failure. But will Becky's life ever recover? Will she be able to
go back to school and make something of the future she dreamed of herself? We won't be finding out
for a while because in season 5, Alicia Gorinson, the actress who played Becky, left the show.
The reason for Gorinson's departure was not, as you might have guessed,
fleeing in terror from Roseanne. She went to pursue an education at Vassar College,
although the Becky Connor character wouldn't exactly leave the show with Gorinson's departure,
but more on that in season 6. Season 5 brought with it one last major employment change for
Roseanne Connor. In looking for loans in all the wrong places, Roseanne, Jackie, and their friend
Nancy, played by Sandra Bernhardt, open a diner serving loose meat sandwiches. While that might
seem outrageous, coming off the heels of Dan having to sell his bike shop, the money for starting
the business mostly comes from Roseanne and Jackie's mother, Bev, played by Estelle Parsons.
It's a small crime, I haven't mentioned her until now. She had been playing Beverly Harris
in special guest spots since season 1. She never quite becomes a regular member of the cast,
but she's a constant figure, appearing in several episodes throughout each season.
Through a combination of a gift and a loan, Roseanne is able to start a business of her own.
This is yet another chance afforded the Conners to make more of their situation. I don't want to
dive too much into this episode, but it's telling that the opportunities the Conners get to reshape
their lives often come from external help, almost as if the show is saying that the only way working
class people can get out of their situation is with some help from the outside, rather than the
whole fabled bootstrap method that has already been thoroughly undermined in earlier episodes.
A major plotline in season 5 is the introduction of Fisher. The name even gives me chills now.
Played by Matt Roth, the eventual real-life husband of Laurie Metcalf,
Fisher was introduced as Jackie's love interest in the episode titled Mommy Nearest.
All we really know about Fisher at first is that he's young.
The truth about Fisher comes out halfway through the season in Crime and Punishment, and as a
content warning, these next few scenes include some very wrenching depictions of an abuse victim,
so fair warning that you might want to skip ahead to the time written below.
One afternoon, when Jackie arrives at Roseanne's house to go out for dinner,
after Roseanne urges Jackie to change her shirt, her bruises are discovered by Darlene.
And the truth comes out.
You don't understand.
When Dan learns the truth, he takes action and faces the consequences.
It's interesting to contrast the reactions of Dan and Roseanne.
Roseanne's impulse is to care for her sister and get her to a hospital.
Dan's impulse is to beat the shit out of Fisher.
The following episode, War and Peace,
sees Dan getting out of jail where he's confronted by a confused Jackie.
This moment displays the struggle within Jackie, desperate for support, but not the kind Dan offers
her. She feels shame, confusion, and sadness in a way that makes the situation so hard for her to
process. She later considers going back to Fisher.
Jackie and Fisher eventually meet,
when another awful truth comes out.
And in what is the most important part of the episode, Jackie is faced with a decision.
These episodes speak so clearly on their own,
but I want to highlight the difference between the various reactions to helping Jackie.
Roseanne and Dan do what they can, as best they can in their own ways, but ultimately,
it's a story about how Jackie finds the real power to solve her problems. It speaks to how often
the best way to help someone out of an abusive relationship isn't to fight their battles for
them, but to support and empower them so they can make the right choices. Done poorly, this episode
could have just been Jackie having to pull herself up by her bootstraps and stand up to an abusive
asshole, but instead we get a story of a victim who needs some port from those around her so she
can make a positive change in her life. It's precisely why instead of blaming victims for
getting into their situations or not being able to fix them, it's more productive to empower them
so they can actually make a change in their life for the better. In the middle of season 5, feeding
the monster, A Week in the Life of Roseanne aired on the BBC in the UK. It was a behind-the-scenes
look at the production of The Roseanne Show. If we had any doubt on whether or not this is a
left-wing show, here's a telling clip.
Left also. That's true. That's very true. And there they were left out. Yeah, left and left out.
All unemployed guys. We also get a sense of what Roseanne thinks of her own show. And it's not
only anti-television, it's totally anti-media and then they don't get that neither because that's
who they are until finally I'm talking about television itself which I did last in last week's
episode that aired, which I thought was great. I was actually talking about the horrible things
television has taught my generation and I'm doing it on television. I just think that's great.
And perhaps more importantly, there's this revealing clip with one of the show's writers.
And whenever I think of what Roseanne might think of this video I'm making right now,
I think of this moment. As season five closes, there is another exit on the show
in Daughters and Other Strangers. In contrast to Becky settling down with a new husband
and giving up on her dreams of college, Darlene is going to Chicago to attempt
to make something more of her life, something Roseanne can't refuse her.
This is the infamous season where writers had to start wearing shirts with numbers printed on them.
Instead of referring to them by their name, Roseanne Barr would call out their numbers instead.
None of the writers who worked on the show spoke fondly of this new management strategy.
This season also saw Sarah Gilbert going to Yale. Although unlike Gorinson, she remained a part of
the show. Apparently Barr thought she was so essential that a special set was made near Yale
so Gilbert could film her scenes speaking to various characters over the phone. She would
appear with the rest of the cast in a handful of episodes and as a result never officially
left the cast. This season brought with it two very controversial episodes with scenes that were
at the time completely shocking. There's no need for a content warning though,
unless your mind is easily blown by how conservative television was in the 1990s.
The first, a stash from the past, is about, as you might have guessed, marijuana. Roseanne finds
what she thinks is David's stash, only to later be reminded by Dan that it's actually hers.
Roseanne, Dan and Jackie then proceed to smoke up.
The most wonderful, beautiful, sexy, you know, thing.
Somehow, this ranked as number 21 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of Television in 1997.
It's a great example of time capsule activism where a truly groundbreaking act is rather
mundane by today's standards. But really, I only bring up this episode in the context of the next
one, which had a controversial moment that was a lot more than some middle-aged people getting
high. In Don't Ask, Don't Tell, Roseanne is directly confronted on her supposedly pro-gay
stance when it gets right up in her face. Literally, when a friend of Nancy's kisses her...
Although the kiss grabbed all the headlines, this episode was about more than that.
Roseanne has to confront the anxiety she now has when being gay is something she has to wonder
about herself. It leads to an important realization at the end.
And you're afraid that just one little tiny percent of you might have been turned on by a woman.
That is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard. I am not afraid of any small percentage of
my gay-ness inside, you know what I mean? I am totally okay about whether I'm like
three percent or four percent or lower. While an unexpected kiss can be considered sexual assault,
this episode sidesteps the issue by making it non-threatening and uses it as a metaphor,
forcing Roseanne to really test how accepting she is of being gay.
I am not gay!
I didn't mean for that to sound like it was bad or anything, you know, because if I was gay,
that'd be just fine, but I'm not gay. So I just don't like people calling me things that I'm not,
like a hypocrite. I'm not gonna admit I was wrong or anything,
but I just don't want to fight with you anymore, so I was wrong. Thank you.
She realizes she's still uncomfortable with it deep down somewhere,
revealing a degree of homophobia she has towards the idea of being gay herself.
This is an especially powerful episode because it takes a woman who is the hero of the show and a
champion for the downtrodden and revealing that she too has some bigotry in her. Though those
feelings of awkwardness may not be out of hatred or malice, the phobia is very real. It's the fear
of being ostracized by the community and how much easier it is to be an ally than someone with skin
in the game. Because of the lesbian kiss, ABC fought to keep the show from airing.
Arnold and Barr threatened to take the whole series to another network if they didn't air
the episode, and ABC eventually caved, although the episode still ran with a parental warning.
Later on, ABC would say that of the 100 calls they got, 75 were positive.
Another major event of this season is the return of Becky, not Alicia Gorenson. Sarah Chalk,
maybe best known for her work on Scrubs, was cast as The New Becky. Although Gorenson would return
to the role in the later season, the two would still swap depending on how the role could be
scheduled. Another note about season 6, it was during the airing of this season that Roseanne
Barr and Tom Arnold divorced. Their volatile relationship wasn't a secret in the press,
and it was turned into a TV movie by NBC. According to a writer for the series at the time,
Amy Sherman Paladino, this is when things start getting erratic. Season 7 is also the one where
the show finally dropped out of the top 10 most viewed shows in the United States.
It's here where the show drifts heavily into the interpersonal drama. Although it's not as if the
show hasn't always had that be a part of it, but the working class struggles of the Connor family
are starting to feel more distant here. Dan has a steady job with the city, and Roseanne is the part
owner of a restaurant. They aren't on the edge they had walked on before. Part of the show's premise
receded, and it had to rely on the strength of its cast of characters, which can still lead to
fantastic television. In White Men Can't Kiss, we get what might very well be my favorite episode
of the series. The main plotline of the episode kicks off when we find out DJ refuses to take part
in a play where he would have to kiss a girl. Roseanne, sticking up for her son, confronts his
teacher, and then learns that there's more to this story than a bashful boy.
I'm not going to change the entire play because of certain people's values.
Wow, um, I guess if he's forced to kiss somebody, then I don't want him to be in the stupid play.
Where should I put my costume as a sin? Why don't you just put it on the table, Gina?
Uh, that wouldn't be the Gina, would it? Well, you can't tell them apart.
Oh, you thought that that's why DJ didn't want it, and then you thought I knew and that I supported
that. I see a lot of this around here. It always starts with the parents.
This leads to a confrontation at home where Roseanne insists DJ do the play.
What seems to be the truth about the origins of DJ's racism come out.
I think you're being a little too hard on the kid. He grew up in Lanford, it's only 5% black,
and kissing's a new thing for DJ. It's only natural he's not as comfortable kissing a black girl as
one of his own. I did not say that. This leads to an emergency game of poker where Dan invites his
one black friend, Chuck, played by James Pickens Jr., for some guidance. It doesn't go the way you
might expect. I mean, you know, we don't know, he's prejudiced. I mean, the kid is young,
he hasn't had much exposure to other cultures. Other cultures?
Why? Is a black girl from China?
You're saying that it's okay that DJ doesn't want to kiss this girl because she's black? No,
I'm not saying that, but that's what you want me to say. No! Unless you really feel it.
Man, why do you care how I feel so much more than everyone else?
Because I'm black?
Well, yeah. So if I feel okay, all black people feel okay, because we all the same.
I would never say that.
Of course not. Some of your best friends are black.
Yes, you're one of my best friends. That's why you're here.
Okay, then why is Bob here? DJ's got to kiss a dumb girl too? No offense, Bob.
This scene reveals some important information. Most strikingly, that Chuck has been living a
life that the others had no clue about, and Dan's sudden interest in the black experience as a way
of assaging his own anxiety come off as insulting. What makes this such a great scene is Chuck's
refusal to be Dan's guiding star on this. Being his black friend doesn't, and shouldn't, mean
that he has to give Dan permission to be a bigot, or be his guiding light on all things race.
The shame Chuck, as a character, doesn't get more screen time. I am very curious to hear
more of his experiences and what it's like to be one of the only black people in Lanford.
This scene is followed by Dan admitting to his faults and telling DJ he'll have to kiss that girl.
I can't let you get out of this, because that would be wrong.
But I'm afraid of what the other kids will say.
Oh, the other kids? Well, they're going to be extremely jealous, because you're Connor.
And Connor men are known as some of the world's best kissers.
You're okay, I'll do it.
You know, DJ, you're going to kiss a lot of girls in your life, and they're all going to be different.
Well, do you think I should even kiss Lila Matthews?
What's different about her? Well, Ralph says she uses her tongue.
I'd go for it.
And lest you think the show is over, we get another fantastic scene that builds on the idea
that it isn't just Dan's latent racism that's the problem. It's a longer scene,
but it's important to see a large portion of it.
Hello. Hi.
Hi, would you let me in, please?
Uh, uh, we're closed.
Yeah, well, it says here you're open till 10.
Yeah, but see, we had a really busy day and we ran out of food.
You're scary.
Sounded like it.
I did the right thing, didn't I?
You said it was scary.
Yeah.
Hey, I think I should tell you something. I'm Mr. Williams, Gina's father.
Oh, well, come on in.
Roseanne Connor, why didn't you just say that you were Gina's father?
You need to know all your customers' names before they come into your restaurant?
Hey, Mr. Williams, uh, you think that you know what happened, but that wasn't what happened.
No, she didn't do that because you are African American. She did that because you're a man.
Yeah, and I'm prejudiced against all men equally.
That's real funny.
Hey, we're women, you know, and it's night. This is like a matter of safety.
And in situations like that, I just got to go with my gut instinct.
Well, I guess your kid inherited your instincts.
What? There's no way that that is anything like this.
Fine.
Mr. Williams, come on. I'm sure you didn't come here to fight.
Well, just forget about it anyway.
There's probably just no way you're ever going to see where I'm coming from.
You know, that's funny. I was going to say the same thing to you.
Well, I think you're right.
Well, I think he blew that out of proportion.
I mean, you invited him in. You tried to make it up to him.
You know, if he was a white guy with the exact same build in those exact same clothes,
you would have done the exact same thing.
Yeah, well, I'm glad one of us is sure.
Well, now don't beat yourself up over it, Roseanne.
You know, anybody else would have done just what you did.
Well, isn't that great?
The subtle things here are what capture my attention.
The way Jackie hides the register or how Roseanne flips the sign when she sees Mr. Williams.
Things you can imagine any scared person doing at night while closing their shop.
But why were they afraid?
The lines exchanged by Roseanne and Mr. Williams are the most telling.
They can never understand each other's experiences.
As the audience, we can understand Roseanne's experience.
We've had six and a half seasons of that, but Mr. Williams?
He's a cipher we can never really break.
Unless you're black, of course, then you probably get it pretty quickly.
Mr. Williams is the black experience in America coming right up to the face of white America
and saying that they don't see the racism he experiences.
And the realization of Roseanne at the end is that he may be right.
And that Roseanne, with those reflexive assumptions, is part of the problem.
This episode perfectly encapsulates what Roseanne is missing as a series when it comes to portraying
the working class.
Of course, it doesn't just miss race.
There are a lot of other factors as well.
But considering when this series was made, it's hard to really excuse not having it.
And it certainly points to more we could learn about in the future.
If Roseanne is to be some sort of guiding light on understanding the working class,
we have to understand areas that fall into the shadows.
To me, this is the last truly great episode of Roseanne.
It's something that could air today and still carry the same weight.
I know I basically spoiled the whole thing, but I highly recommend seeking it out and
watching it in its entirety.
And as a slight spoiler for season 10, Gina, that little girl DJ doesn't want to kiss,
they end up getting married and having a cute daughter named Mary.
One of the signs of the show starting to drift off the rails is how aware it becomes about its
success and eventual place in TV history.
The show toyed with fanciful episodes on rare occasions such as the Dream episode from season
2, but it's here where things start to kick it up a few years.
In All About Rosie, we get one of those old sitcom staples, the clip show.
These have thankfully died away, but in the past they were used to squeeze out an extra
episode of a show while keeping the budget down by having the characters sit around and
share memories.
What makes this one hour, yes, one hour, special different is the second half features Roseanne
Connor meeting famed TV moms Barbara Billingsley, June Lockhart, Isabel Sanford, Allie Mills,
and Patricia Crowley.
Whereas these mothers are initially judgmental of her brash persona,
she slowly convinces them that she's part of a new way mothers can be viewed on TV.
Season 7's finale, Sherwood Schwartz, a loving tribute, continues with the retro TV
love as the topic of Dan's boat comes up, which leads to a lengthy Gilligan's Island parody where
the actors from Roseanne take up the roles of various castaways from the classic sitcom.
You can see a similar episode in the next season.
These episodes are… not great.
There's a subtext here that underscores the larger point of revering the past.
When these shows are parodied, it's taking time to discuss the inherent silliness and
negative stereotypes they hold.
They're being deconstructed in a way to show you the limits of TV sitcoms,
and that while they may be entertaining and even have something to say,
they are also products of their time, and it's only natural the same thing what happens to the
Roseanne show.
Except Roseanne was already a show that was changing the way sitcoms could be viewed,
and it was doing it in a way that was much more interesting and clever than simply parodying
older sitcoms.
Instead of being subtextual, these parodies make the commentary overt.
Instead of trying to say something new, the show is instead saying the same thing as it always had
just a bit louder.
And things are going to get louder still.
This season marks the return of Lacey Goren's into the role of Becky.
She would swap paces with Sarah Chalk throughout the season, and then Chalk would once again take
over the role completely in season 9.
Yeah, it gets confusing.
Another sign of the declining quality of the show is when we get the episode where the Connors are
totally woke.
In The Last Thursday in November, DJ School Play gets some negative reviews when it dares
to mention that the Pilgrims and Native Americans weren't the best of buddies.
God, Roseanne, could you believe how horrible that play was?
Well, I'm just sorry I let my son be in it.
It was nothing but violent propaganda.
And this debate drifts into another cheesy production where the cast pretends to be Pilgrims.
So what's wrong with this episode?
In the context of the series, where we had earlier episodes such as White Men Can't Kiss
and Don't Ask, Don't Tell, where the Connors learn about their own faults and blind spots,
they're just kind of woke for this episode.
The heat comes from the nameless parents at the school play who are passing morons and
capable of speaking in anything other than shitty right-wing talking points.
There's no real nuance or discussion.
This episode more than most others embodies all the things that are wrong with the Roseanne
show in later seasons.
Even though its message is ultimately a good one,
of respecting the people's displaced and massacred by colonialism,
but Season 8 had some bright spots that I would be remiss to point out.
The white sheep of the family includes a much-needed return of working-class dynamics when
it's revealed that Darlene has offered a relatively high-paying copywriting job
that she turned down so she could finish school and find something better.
The job was not for $200, okay?
It was as an advertising copywriter and it started at $500 a week.
The Conners are suddenly confronted with someone not being in the same working-class boots
and it creates tension at home.
The pain and pride of seeing Darlene succeed becomes clear.
This episode introduces something new.
The idea of one of the Conners making it.
The thing the Conners have supposedly been working so hard for.
The success of their children is finally happening.
This might be one of the last episodes of the series to deal with being working-class
and in a way that doesn't sugarcoat the Conners as unflinchingly supportive.
It portrays the fear of losing a child to a world that they could never be a part of,
knowing that it's in Darlene's best interests,
but with the fear that she may become one of the people they've always resented.
This all unravels in later episodes and we learn Darlene is pregnant in another mouth to shut up
and she and David get engaged.
The season putters along with Darlene getting married and Dan having a heart attack.
While these are major moments for the Conners,
I'm going to skip right ahead to the final episode of the season.
Fights and stuff.
When Dan won't stick to a diet regime that will help him with his heart condition,
he and Roseanne end up having a huge fight.
It starts with a cute callback to the first season.
I'll fix dinner.
I'm fixing dinner.
Oh, but honey, you just fixed dinner 11 years ago.
You want me to fix dinner?
I'll fix dinner.
I'm fixing dinner.
Oh, but honey, you just fixed dinner three years ago.
Then it gets nasty.
There are failures, Roseanne, and the only reason you won't admit it
is because you'll have to admit you failed as a mother.
The only way I failed as a mother is to let Becky and Darlene get married
so young that they threw their whole life away on a man, just like I did.
All the insecurities of being a parent boil over as the things that kept the family together,
the children, may not be enough when their goal of giving them a better life seems out of reach.
The real pain and discord here isn't from Roseanne and Dan not being able to get along,
but the fear of not being able to give their kids a better life,
the fear of remaining working class.
It's an anxiety that many can relate to and one that contradicts the myth of the American dream,
that anyone can be successful as long as they're willing to work hard enough.
Conners are hardworking.
The system just wasn't built for them.
The explosive finale of the last season may have just been an excuse to let John Goodman
spend some time away from the show.
Frustrations backstage and a burgeoning movie career are all cited as reasons for his departure,
though he would still show up for several episodes this season.
With Dan Connor gone though, and many of the cast regulars appearing only sporadically,
season 9 focused on Roseanne in some bizarre situations.
Janet Leahy, a writer for the series, credits Roseanne's executive control for some of the
more ludicrous stories that appear this season.
She says,
It is one thing to have editorial power and another to have creative power.
And I think that crossed over in the end, and that was part of the problem.
Season 9 is best known as the season where the Conners win the lottery.
After Dan and Roseanne are hastily brought back together through a series of cheesy TV parodies,
the Conners win the jackpot of $108 million dollars.
Adjusted for inflation, that works out to a shit ton of money in 2018.
In Millions from Heaven, we get this moment that somehow always makes me laugh.
I help pick the numbers.
I don't know why, but it always works.
The lottery win leads Roseanne on a number of strange adventures that my notes have marked
descriptively as weird shit.
This is also where John Goodman is noticeably absent for several episodes,
explained as him going to California to care for his ill mother.
In his place, we get some truly weird shit, including parodies of Rosemary's Baby,
Roseanne Connor literally fighting a train filled with terrorists,
and an appearance by a fake Hillary Clinton and a real Steven Seagal.
By the way, Roseambo, yeah it was called that, is widely thought of as the worst episode of the
series and is certainly the lowest rated one, at least from the original 9 season run.
As the series winds down, a pregnant darling goes into premature labor in
The Miracle, an episode with a story credited to Roseanne Barr.
The baby, Harris Connor Healy, is close to death,
and the Connor family money isn't able to solve their problem.
It's not a question of money, Mrs. Connor. Unfortunately, we cannot
duplicate the conditions in the womb.
But this is crazy. I mean, there's got to be something that you can do.
Well, I wish there was, Mrs. Connor. I'm so sorry.
What's perhaps most notable about this episode is the sudden turn towards the spiritual.
You're making it up. That doesn't work.
Oh yes, it does, Jackie. And you know why? Because they believe it's gonna work.
I read that in all those books that Nancy gave me. And you know what?
They all say the very same thing. You know what they say?
That the spiritual is the cause for the physical.
This is a strange episode for me to watch. As someone with no faith or belief in the supernatural,
Roseanne Connor is coming from a fundamentally different place.
The struggle to balance the question in her mind eventually leads her to a conclusion that's the
exact opposite of mine. This is one of those episodes where I feel very keenly that I'm
looking at someone completely different from me. Although season 9 had a lot of low points,
I don't think I would call this one of them. The struggle between faith and science show how,
even with material things, people still turn to the spiritual in the face of
unsolvable tragedy. Although I don't like the idea of divine intervention being the solution,
it does speak to the powerlessness people feel that lead them to believe it.
As you might have suspected from the title of the episode, The Baby Pulls Through.
And that brings us to the finale, a two-parter titled, Into That Good Night,
with another story credit to Roseanne Parr. The story of the last episode largely centers
around where the family is heading and the happy futures they all have together.
Darlene and David with their new daughter, Becky and Mark expecting a child of their own,
and DJ finding a calling as a filmmaker. We even get an almost woke moment about gender identity.
As the episode comes to a close, and it seems like we're getting a nice
bow to put on The Adventures of the Connor Clan, a recreation of the show's opening
credit sequence changes everything. A lengthy voiceover from Roseanne gives us the true story
of all the characters in the series, how Becky and David were the ones who got together,
and Darlene married Mark, how Jackie was actually a lesbian, and perhaps most shocking.
The last season, and much of the series,
are revealed to have been Roseanne working in the writing room her family had gotten her
at the end of season two.
The show ends with a quote from T.E. Lawrence, taken from the introduction to his signature
work, The Seven Pillars of Wisdom.
In 2011, the two-part finale was ranked number nine on the TV Guide Network special,
TV's Most Unforgettable Finale. Here are some comments from Barr herself, as well as Sarah
Gilbert.
That's how it ends. It doesn't end with a happy reunion on ABC every Christmas.
You know, it's not gonna go like that.
We probably should have been done at season eight. The lottery and stuff? It got so surreal and
started to follow Roseanne's real path. It wasn't what it started as. For me, I like the struggle of
the family a little more. The financial struggle. The show ended on a somber note, but lived on in
syndication. Reruns still air to this day on some channels. The struggle of a working-class
family could have been consigned to the history books, and this video need not even exist,
but the TV cards weren't done with the Roseanne show just yet.
