If you want to have an honest conversation about race on the internet, here's what you
do.
You set your computer on fire, you flee to the forest, you drink a mimosa laced with
toad venom, and you simply wait for the Wolverines to eat your legs.
Trust me, you're better off that way.
Because if you look for videos on YouTube about race, well, here's what you get.
You get fascism, racist pseudoscience, racist debate fascists tag team title match tonight
at 9, or if you're lucky, you get this.
So perhaps our legal system isn't going around willy nilly convicting innocent black
people of crimes they didn't commit.
Perhaps individuals who happen to be black are making bad choices for which they have
to deal with the consequences.
Racism isn't an explanation for everything bad that happens to black people.
If blacks are getting shot and going to jail more, it's their fault for committing crimes.
That's right, racial inequality in America exists because black people simply decide
to commit more crimes for no reason.
I guess he's probably going to blame the rap music, or deadbeat dads with their sagging
pants.
I'd say that this is the most common right wing view of race in America.
It's not outright fascism or race realism, but simply the classical liberal view that
racial inequality is a product not of injustice, but of black people simply deciding to make
bad choices.
Usually this idea gets whipped out as a way to wave away the indisputable facts of racial
inequality and dismiss those pesky protesters always complaining about things.
Mmm, they make me uncomfortable and I don't like it.
This is what I'm going to argue against in this video.
We're going to take a break from talking about fascism.
In the past, I've focused too much on the alt-right.
I think we all have.
I mean, don't get me wrong, it definitely is a dangerous movement, but it's just not
the most consequential kind of white supremacy that exists in America.
In this video, I want to talk about the real root of racial inequality in America, which
is the structural injustice that disadvantages many people of color.
And from now on, I'm going to try not to get so distracted by this circus sideshow
of Pepe's and racist Odinists and neo-Nazi larpers.
All that stuff, it's very last season.
I'm kind of over it.
Oh, god damn it.
Hello Leiter.
Fritz, get the hell out of here.
No one cares about you anymore.
No one cares about you anymore.
No.
I don't care.
I don't care.
You're still a Nazi.
Get out.
But I'm trans.
How could I possibly be a Nazi?
That's a good question.
It's almost as if you're an irrational person and your worldview makes no sense.
Get out.
She calls me a Nazi, and yet she is the one trying to silence my free speech, an excellent
example of how truly fascist the left has become.
Look, if your ideas stand up to rational scrutiny, why aren't you willing to discuss them in
the free marketplace of ideas?
Well, I'm going to discuss them in the free marketplace of ideas as soon as you get out
of my room.
Mom, get out of my life.
Well, can we at least talk about the Jewish question?
No.
It's just ideas.
What are you afraid of?
I'm afraid that I'm going to have to blow the tabby whistle if you don't get out of
here in ten seconds.
Ten.
Nine.
Oh, baby.
Come on.
I thought you liked to be.
Six.
You used to whisper to me so sweetly.
Well, not anymore.
Well, do you at least want to buy some Vitalimax?
Hey, Jesus.
I don't like doing this.
I prefer to have conversations about disagreements.
I don't enjoy waving a bat around and hissing like a cat, but it's these people.
They just give you no choice.
Where were we?
Right, so racial injustice.
When I talk to people about this issue, they often claim to have this experience that leftists
react to them in two ways.
One, by saying you're racist.
And two, by saying it's not my job to educate you.
And I'm sure this isn't as universal as people say it is, but it does seem to be an experience
a lot of people have.
And that's not good, because most people are pretty ignorant about this.
No offense.
And there's no shortage of fascists, race realists, and classical liberals who are more
than happy to educate people in their own special way.
So as I see it, the left needs to step it up.
Now, to be fair, if you're bothering random people of color on Twitter to demand they
explain racism to you, you're being kind of an asshole, and it's true, it's not their
job to explain it to you.
They have other shit to do with their lives.
But I, on the other hand, do not have anything better to do than swerve wildly out of my
lane and white-splain racism to you for the next 20 minutes.
Because it kind of is my job, and I have all the time in the world.
It's a funny thing, time.
Whose job is it to mend the crimes of history?
Do we have to take responsibility for things that happened a long time ago?
I don't even take responsibility for things I did before July.
This person?
Who the fuck is that?
No, I don't have any white guilt.
That's not what this is about.
That's just more white narcissism is what that is.
So wipe away those white-ass tears.
Here, I'll pick you out of cotton ball.
1.
Freddie Gray
On April 12, 2015, three police officers near a housing project in West Baltimore arrested
a 25-year-old black man named Freddie Gray because he was carrying a spring-assisted
knife that maybe was illegal.
They handcuffed him and loaded him into a police van.
His leg broke and yachts, man, I didn't like that.
When the van arrived at the police station, Gray was in a coma for some reason, with three
fractured vertebrae and his spine 80% severed at the neck.
A week later, Gray died of his spinal injury, while the Baltimore police released contradictory
and inadequate information about his arrest.
This led to widespread protests all over the city, eventually culminating in the notorious
Baltimore riots.
Now, you might be thinking, what does this have to do with racism if black people don't
want to be killed and they shouldn't commit crimes and run away from the police?
Well, the first problem with that is that extrajudicial executions for nonviolent crimes
shouldn't really be a common thing in a civilized democracy, and it's a little alarming to
me how quick you are to defend this.
And the other problem is that that's a very superficial analysis that refuses to examine
the deeper reasons why black neighborhoods tend to have more poverty, more crime, and
are subject to more aggressive policing.
So let's delve a little deeper, starting with Freddie Gray as a case study.
Gray had a long arrest record of mostly drug offenses, and a lot of conservative commentators
brought this out as evidence that he was no angel.
The implication, I guess, is that Gray simply got what was coming to him, but he deserved
to die.
But why did he commit all these crimes in the first place?
I don't think he was selling drugs for lack of entrepreneurial ambition.
Did he just do it for no reason?
Well, let's see.
Freddie Gray was born in 1989 in the West Baltimore neighborhood, Sandtown Winchester.
You can see in this picture of him as a child that he grew up in a dilapidated row house
with peeling lead paint.
Lead was used as a cheap additive in house paint until Congress banned it in 1978 because
it causes serious cognitive damage in children, leading to deficits in attention and increased
aggression which may explain why children poisoned with lead are seven times more likely
and six times more likely to end up in the juvenile justice system.
But shitty Baltimore slumlords often haven't bothered to comply with a congressional ban
on lead paint, and as a result, 93,000 children with lead poisoning have been added to Maryland's
lead registry, and in Baltimore, the vast majority of these children are black.
Many of these kids were later awarded structured settlements as compensation for permanent
brain damage, and Freddie Gray was one of these kids.
Now you might be thinking, well, reparations were paid out, so problem solved, right?
Well, unfortunately, no.
What's happened is a sub-industry has emerged of shark lawyers who swoop in on the lead
poisoning victims, some of whom can't even read a contract, and offer to buy out their
structured monthly settlements in exchange for a lump sum that's a fraction of the total
worth of the settlement.
And that's exactly what happened to Freddie Gray.
In 2013, a company called Access Funding bought the $146,000 remainder of his settlement for
$18,300.
They also bought his sister's settlements, acquiring the entire $435,000 Gray siblings
settlement for $54,000.
Now I hope we can all agree that this is objectively bad, but to understand how it relates to structural
racism, we have to look at Baltimore's history of racial segregation.
Or you know, we could just keep doing livestreams with Richard Spencer.
Interviews with Nazis, the new YouTube craze.
God damn it.
I need to relax.
I need music.
I'm just a race down in every corner.
Two.
Housing discrimination.
Take a look at this map, which shows Baltimore neighborhoods with children with elevated
lead levels between 2010 and 2013, and compare it with this map of Baltimore's racial demographics.
Yellow dots standing for black residents, and blue dots standing for white.
Lead.
Race.
Lead.
Race.
Also, notice how sharp the divisions are between black and white neighborhoods.
Why in the 21st century is Baltimore still so segregated?
I thought racism was over.
Well, here's the thing about that.
When your country's history is 400 years of slavery, Jim Crow, and segregation, you don't
just get to say, oops, sorry about that.
It's all cool now though, right?
No, it's not cool.
And these maps are a pretty good illustration of one of the major not cool things.
Let's look at how this shit happened in the first place.
I hope I'm not being too controversial if I propose that 100 years ago, America may
have been somewhat racist.
In 1910, a Yale educated black lawyer named W. Ashby Hawkins bought a house in a prestigious
white Baltimore neighborhood.
This produced such an uproar among the white residents that the city passed an ordinance
mandating the segregation of every residential block.
Basically, the ordinance forbade black people to buy or rent houses on majority white blocks
and vice versa until the Supreme Court overturned the ordinance in 1917.
Well, if the Supreme Court overturned the Jim Crow laws, then what's the problem?
Racism can't exist if black people have all the same rights as white people.
Well, no, that's actually not correct.
In 1934, Congress created the Federal Housing Administration to promote home ownership in
the midst of the Great Depression, when many homes were foreclosed.
One of the FHA's purposes was to establish a reliable credit system backed by the government,
which would regulate interest rates and ensure the terms of mortgages.
FHA-backed loans played a critical role in facilitating home ownership throughout the
middle of the 20th century, the period many white Americans now remember as the golden
age of the American Dream.
But many black Americans were excluded from home ownership and the benefits it conferred
to white families, particularly the family financial stability it enabled.
So how was this exclusion possible?
Well, basically, the FHA, city governments, and white citizens adopted a variety of subtle
methods to enforce residential segregation and deny home ownership to black Americans.
For instance, 1.
Restrictive Covenants
When the 1910 Ordinance was overturned, Baltimore's mayor created an official Committee on Segregation,
which cooperated with neighborhood associations to pressure landlords in white neighborhoods
to sign covenants committing them never to sell or rent to black residents.
These agreements were enforced through strategic building and health code citations issued
against owners and by evictions of black renters who violated the covenant.
2.
Red Signing
The FHA adopted a policy of refusing to ensure mortgages in black neighborhoods, which were
colored in red on official maps, giving the practice the name redlining.
This effectively denied black citizens access to government-backed mortgages, which, in
turn, left them vulnerable to three predatory lending.
Unscrupulous white sellers took advantage of black buyers' exclusion from FHA-backed
mortgages, exploiting lax regulations to design unfairly priced installment plans with abusive
terms, which allowed, for instance, sellers to repossess and resell homes after a single
missed payment.
Many black residents had no choice but to buy into these exploitative contracts, and
they often resorted to subdividing houses or neglecting repairs in order to make payments,
further contributing to the overcrowding and decay of black neighborhoods.
4.
Blockbusting
Predatory real estate agents often used a scheme known as blockbusting, where they'd
intentionally provoke fear of an impending minority takeover among residents of a white
neighborhood.
They would then exploit the fear that they created to trick white homeowners into selling
their houses at below-market prices so they could resell those same houses at extortionate
prices to black families desperate to escape the ghetto.
The long-term effect of these practices was that many black families ended up trapped
in decaying neighborhoods with bad schools, little opportunity, cyclical crime and poverty,
and aggressive, discriminatory policing.
And even though most of these segregation practices have ended, the injustice remains
unredressed.
No reparations have been paid to black families who were effectively robbed of homeownership
during this period, predatory lending having cost black families an estimated $500 million
in Chicago alone.
But worst of all is that segregation and ghettoization caused by government-backed discrimination
of the last century is still ongoing.
I'm currently sitting in my gentrifying white fuckin' neighborhood like one mile
away from where Freddie Gray was arrested in a neighborhood that's like a whole different
country.
Here's the 1937 redlining map of Baltimore.
I'll compare that to the 2013 population by race map.
If the 1937 map is the product of racism, and it is, and if the city still follows the
same pattern of segregation today, and it does, well, it's almost as if the effects
of racism have not entirely been eradicated.
And it's not just Baltimore that's like this either.
Here are redlining maps of New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Detroit, New Orleans,
Cleveland, LA.
All of these cities are still segregated as shit, and it's not like a separate but equal
situation either.
Compare the 2013 population by race map of Baltimore to this map of Baltimore police
stops between 2010 and 2015, that's black neighborhoods in red and green dots representing
recorded police stops of black pedestrians.
And finally, let's bring back the map of childhood lead poisoning between 2010 and
2013.
Now consider this information in combination with some scientific studies linking lead
exposure and violent crime, and it almost starts to look like there's some problems
going on here that might not be solved simply by telling black teenagers to tighten their
belts and do less crimes.
But I don't want to overstate the lead crime theory either, because that only accounts
for a small fraction of what's going on here.
The bigger picture is the lasting economic deprivation caused by segregation, the historical
exclusion from homeownership, the lost opportunities, the bad schools, and this country's ongoing
insistence on treating a problem of injustice as if it were simply a problem of criminality.
I know I said my interest in this topic isn't a matter of white guilt.
And it's not, but also, fellow whites, how do we sleep at night?
In this guided meditation, you're going to relax your body and release your guilt.
You're not responsible for what your great-grandparents did.
As you ease the tension in each muscle group, exhale deeply and repeat the mantra.
Black Lives Matter are the real racists.
3. Mass Incarceration
Since the 1970s, the United States incarceration rate has rapidly risen to the point where
nearly 1 in 100 American men are in jail or prison.
We now have the highest incarceration rate in the world, accounting for 22% of the world's
prisoners, though we make up only 4.4% of the world's population.
More than a third of the total incarcerated population is black, and the black incarceration
rate is almost 6 times that of whites.
Now without even bringing race into it, it's clear that America has a prison problem in
general.
Sentences are too long, too many nonviolent drug offenders are in prison, too many defendants
are pressured into plea bargains, and a private prison industry incentivizes high rates of
incarceration.
But disproportionately, people of color are victimized by this system.
You know, a lot of people are going to look at the incarceration data and say,
If the blacks don't like going to jail, they should just do less crimes.
Let's do another interview with Richard Spencer.
You know what?
Why don't we all interview Richard Spencer?
Every single YouTuber.
Free speech mandates that we all constantly broadcast fascist propaganda.
Let's get him all in here, every single Nazi in one giant livestream, and then we can
finally give the Jewish question the platform it deserves.
God damn it.
Where's my toad venom?
Look, it's just not always the case that black people are imprisoned more because they commit
more crimes.
For instance, black and white people use weed at about the same rate, but black people are
nearly 4 times as likely to be arrested for it.
And we're talking about a drug that, at this point, white America has basically decided
shouldn't really even be illegal anyway.
So we've now got a $10 billion legal marijuana industry.
And just look what white people are doing to weed.
Mark Smith is the CEO of Tumbleweed, a gondrepreneur.
It's a strong, strong sativa, very high in limonene.
It's a great bronco dilator, so I like to use it when I work out.
Yeah, so in fact, in the back of the limousines, only one of the only legal places you can
consume cannabis.
The whites are at it again.
They have gentrified the marijuana.
And now we've got white business people making millions of dollars selling the same drug
that black people are still disproportionately incarcerated for having sold.
A gondrepreneur.
What do I do with the gold on my fingers?
This is the most basic kind of unfairness, and if this doesn't make you angry, then
either you're really ignorant about this, or you might just not care about black people.
I don't like to assume the worst of people, but when I look at the state of the conversation
about race in America, I see a lot of people who are willing to just wave away the extrajudicial
executions of black people by the police, the mass incarceration of people of color,
and the vicious history of discrimination in its ongoing repercussions.
And from those same people, I see a tendency to get extremely outraged by any black person
who takes a stand, or takes a knee, or speaks up about this in any way.
There's an endless mill of content about how authoritarian and evil Black Lives Matter
is and how its identity politics equivalent to white nationalism and its unpatriotic and
postmodern and racist, and I'm sorry, but this group of creators are being really melodramatic.
Black college students complaining too loudly are not Orwell's nightmare.
If anything in this country deserves to be called an authoritarian nightmare, it's
locking people in cages for decades over drug offenses.
But right-wing YouTube doesn't seem very interested in using their free speech to talk
about that.
They're too busy complaining about people using their free speech to protest.
How dare they?
Now, I can also anticipate another objection that doesn't come from YouTube fascists
or stock, salad-eating, basic white girl caricatures.
I imagine some black people will probably watch this video and think, where does this
white bitch get off telling me I'm a victim?
I take responsibility for my own life instead of blaming all my problems on racism.
And here's the thing about that.
You're actually right in the sense that taking responsibility or taking control of your life
to the greatest extent possible is actually a good way to live your life as an individual.
So by all means, don't allow yourself to be defined by victimhood.
Do take control of your destiny as much as possible.
So I'm not saying anyone should blame all their problems on bigotry and wallow in victimhood.
Please don't do that.
Go succeed as much as possible.
But also, while you're succeeding, don't deny that oppressive circumstances exist.
Yes, it's possible for individuals to escape oppressive circumstances, but we also have
a collective duty to work to eliminate the unjust conditions that create those circumstances
in the first place.
Wow.
I feel like I just gave a great speech.
Would you take my speech less seriously if you knew I had been drinking Bud Light Lime
this entire time?
Look, I even put a lime in it.
Bud Light Lime with Lime.
The official beverage of people who complain about people who complain too much about people
who complain too much about racism.
For the final...countdown.
I want to say two more things before I flee into the forest.
First, there actually are more racial groups in America than just black people and white
people.
I've just narrowed the topic of discussion so this video isn't three hours long.
But there are lots of other kinds of racism in this country and someone should make videos
about those too.
Second, please don't get all your information from YouTube.
I've put some links in the description with my sources and some further reading on the
topic.
Also, don't get all your information about race and racism from white people.
Like, c'mon, that should just be common sense.
So when this video ends, what you should do is scroll down, smash that unsubscribe button,
unclick that little bell so you no longer receive notifications about my videos, and
then you should go subscribe to a bunch of people of color and listen to what they have
to say.
Um, so, I guess that's it.
I was just kidding about the forest.
I don't fuck with forests, I'm really more of an indoor tranny.
So, I guess I'll just go sing a song about fighting racists.
But his truth is marching on.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
His truth is marching on.
In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea with the glory in his bosom
that transfigures you and me.
As he died to make men holy let us die to make men free while God is marching on.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
His truth is marching on.
Death to capitalism and the patriarchy smash the binary hill, Satan.
Ow!
