Saar, I'm gonna talk about Jorro once again.
But first, story time.
Chapter one, Anita.
The most famous bigot in American LGBT history
is a woman called Anita Bryant.
This is her story.
1977 was not a good time to be gay.
Is it ever really a good time to be gay?
In 1969, the Stonewall Riots forced gay rights
into national consciousness.
The first pride parades were held in the summer of 1970,
and in 1973, the American Psychiatric Association
declassified homosexuality as a mental disorder.
But only after gay activists disrupted their conference
and shouted, gay conversion therapy is torture.
We have abnormal urges and we will not be silenced.
Because that's the only way to get anything done
in this country, you have to be super annoying about it.
They give you no choice.
On January 18th, 1977, Dade County, Florida,
known for such popular cities as Miami,
approved a law that added the phrase
affectionate or sexual preference
to its non-discrimination ordinance,
effectively banning housing and employment discrimination
on the basis of sexual orientation.
And it was just then, as things seemed to be getting better,
that Anita Bryant made her little appearance.
Anita Bryant, Miss Oklahoma!
Anita Bryant is a native Oklahoman
who once had a career as a pop singer, beauty queen,
and spokeswoman for the Florida Citrus Commission.
Come to the Florida Sunshine Tree.
My twins love 100% orange juice from Florida
any time of the day.
Orange juice from Florida!
It isn't just for breakfast anymore!
Orange juice with natural vitamin C
from the Florida Sunshine Tree.
She was known for these TV commercials with the tagline,
A day without orange juice is like a day without sunshine.
Breakfast without orange juice is like a day without sunshine.
Cute.
When Anita heard her pastor speak
about this non-discrimination ordinance,
she felt a divine disturbance in her heart.
How touching.
According to the word of God,
it's an abomination to practice homosexuality.
As a mother, she would not stand for this.
So Anita wrote a letter to the county commissioner,
as a concerned mother of four children,
I am most definitely against this ordinance amendment.
I have never condoned
nor taught my children discrimination against anyone.
But if this ordinance amendment is allowed to become law,
you will in fact be infringing upon my rights
and discriminating against me as a citizen and a mother
to teach my children God's moral code
as stated in the Holy Scriptures.
Anita, kill your shitty child.
When the amendment passed,
Anita created a campaign for its repeal.
The Save Our Children Coalition,
which sponsored provocative TV ads
implying that gay people are degenerates
who ruin communities and seduce children.
The campaign has been vicious.
With television commercials,
the Save Our Children group is appealing
to parental anxieties,
saying gays will flaunt their homosexuality
before impressionable children.
The Orange Bowl parade,
Miami's gift to the nation, wholesome entertainment.
But in San Francisco, when they take to the streets,
it's a parade of homosexuals,
men hugging other men,
cavorting with little boys.
Save Our Children sparked the first organized backlash
to gay rights in the United States,
escalating the conflict into a national controversy.
On one side were the gay rights activists
who argued that non-discrimination
was a matter of human rights.
On the opposing side, Anita Bryant argued
that the non-discrimination ordinance
would give special privileges to homosexuals.
We all believe in human rights,
but we don't believe human rights
that would corrupt our children
or for individuals who have special privileges
that would go against the constitutional rights
of the normal America.
As long as they don't want to flaunt their homosexuality,
they have equal rights the same as anyone else.
In other words, gay people already have equal rights
just as long as they stay in the closet
and don't do anything gay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you so much, Anita,
for standing up for our right to be gay
in secret.
As long as they do their job
and do not want to come out of the closet
and force their homosexuality
on being in the areas of business or in the schools,
they can live their life.
And we're not going out after their jobs
or trying to get them out of their teaching jobs or housing.
Anita also argued that allowing flaunting homosexuals
to teach children was tantamount to gay recruitment.
Just biologically that God made mothers
so that we could reproduce.
Homosexuals cannot reproduce biologically,
but they have to reproduce by recruiting our children.
It's the exact same argument that's being used today
by right-wing politicians who claim
that queer people are groomers.
Stop confusing our babies
with your groomer gender ideologue.
This wicked book, me and Earl and the dying girl
sexually indoctrinated with wicked vile books.
And she believes in traditional marriage
between a man and a woman.
And in that book it talked about two moms.
Stay away from the children creep or you will regret it.
People should definitely arm themselves.
I agree with that.
The Democrats are the party of pedophiles.
The Democrats are the party of teachers,
elementary school teachers,
trying to transition their elementary school-aged children
and convince them they're a different gender.
They're just evil people and they want to groom kids.
They're recruiting.
They don't know what furries are.
It's where school children dress up as animals,
cats or dogs during the school day.
They meow and they bark.
What a great country we live in.
I love it so much.
Gay people around the country rallied against Anita Bryant
and save our children.
There was a national boycott of Florida orange juice
with many gay bars taking screwdrivers off the menu
and replacing them with an apple juice and vodka cocktail
called an Anita Bryant.
Let's make one now.
Forgot my cocktail measure
so I'm just gonna have to eyeball this.
There's the dash of apple juice.
Give it a stir.
Needs a garnish.
Stunning.
I mean, it's not as good as a screwdriver,
but if I was in the 70s,
I would have thrown back so many of these goddamn things
out of pure spite.
There's a story that Troy Perry,
the founder of the gay-affirming
metropolitan community church,
was on a transcontinental flight.
And when the attendant put a glass of orange juice
on his tray, he said,
take that away.
I'm a homosexual.
At gay pride marches in 1977 and 78,
anti-Anita Bryant slogans featured prominently
on T-shirts, signs, and buttons.
Anita Bryant sucks oranges.
A day without lesbians is like a day without sunshine.
True.
And meanwhile, Anita's campaign inspired
more anti-gay legislation,
including bans on gay adoption and same-sex marriage,
both of which passed in the Florida Senate,
as well as the failed Briggs Initiative in California,
which would have forced public schools
to fire gay teachers.
So Anita Bryant was worse than a bigot.
She was an influential bigot,
but she may also have helped to unify
and galvanize gay activists
by providing them with a common enemy.
According to historian Lillian Faderman,
Anita Bryant created fervent activists
out of those who'd previously been content
simply to enjoy their newfound freedoms.
Faderman cites Eric Hoffer's observation
that a mass movement can get along fine without a God,
but it won't get along at all without a devil.
For gay people all over the country,
Anita Bryant became that devil.
I think that she is rallying the community together
like I have never seen before.
It's not like I could have done it on my own.
So even though she succeeded in her initial goal
to repeal the non-discrimination ordinance,
there is no question that in the long term,
Anita Bryant was the loser.
She took a lot of L's.
Rip.
That must be super hard for her.
For the short remainder of her career,
gay activists protested her events.
They shut down the tour for her book
about how persecuted she was by the militant homosexual,
and they succeeded in turning public opinion
against Anita Bryant to the point
that she became virtually unemployable
in mainstream entertainment.
And it helped that she came across
as kind of a judgmental prude
that even hip straight people
didn't want to be associated with.
Our top story tonight, Anita Bryant,
former mediocre actress and orange juice promoter,
performed co-eaters in public yesterday,
campaigned to promote heterosexuality.
We don't serve orange juice anymore.
Like she famously told Playboy magazine.
Why do you think the homosexuals are called fruits?
It's because they eat the forbidden fruit
of the tree of life.
God referred to men as trees,
and because the homosexuals eat the forbidden fruit,
which is male sperm.
Oh my God.
Like the woman is heterosexual cringe.
This is how you lose the culture war.
Let's all squeeze a fruit for Anita.
That's the energy we surround.
And of course, there was the famous incident
where a gay activist smashed a banana cream pie
in Anita's face during a TV appearance.
And went into a place called North Fork, Virginia,
and we're met with protest and all kinds of problems.
And every-
Security agent, security agent.
No, no, let him stay.
No. Let him stay.
Well, at least it's a fruit pie.
Miami-Dade County finally reinstated
the non-discrimination ordinance in 1998,
and they added gender identity to its protections in 2014.
In 2021, Anita took another metaphorical pie to the face
when her granddaughter, Sarah Green, came out as gay,
announcing her marriage to a woman and publicly struggling
with whether to even invite her grandmother to the ceremony.
It's very hard to argue with someone who thinks
that an integral part of your identity
is just an evil delusion.
That it is, Sarah.
That it is.
So that's the story of Anita Bryant
as students of LGBT history know it.
But isn't it a bit one-sided?
Wasn't there a lot of toxicity on both sides?
The Anita Bryant forces talk of absolute truth and morality.
Gay leaders are equally dogmatic about human rights.
I played on both the houses.
Isn't it cruel, even, to slur Anita
as a bigot and a homophobe?
In fact, isn't it possible that Anita Bryant
was the real victim?
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
I can't do this anymore.
I'm eating my pie.
I'm eating my goddamn pie.
Chapter two, The Witch Trials of Anita Bryant.
God help us all.
The mainstream media would have us believe
that Anita Bryant is a so-called homophobe,
some kind of hateful bigot.
But isn't this just an authoritarian tactic
used to silence valid concerns?
Mothers in this country are worried
about their children going to school
to be taught by perverts.
How can we be so sure that the militant homosexuals
weren't the real bigots?
Isn't it possible that Anita Bryant
was the first victim of cancel culture,
of dare I say it, wokeism?
Well, no, that's the dumbest thing
I've ever heard in my entire life.
But suppose that you're an idiot,
and suppose that that's the narrative
you wanted to promote.
Well, what would be your argument?
I mean, if someone put a gun to my head
and forced me to make that argument,
I'd probably say something like this.
Anita Bryant lived a difficult life.
In 1940, she was born into brutal poverty
in rural Oklahoma.
Her parents divorced when she was just two years old,
the same year she made her singing debut
at the Baptist Church.
Parts of my childhood,
I blocked out because it hurts too much.
I guess I was happiest when I was eight years old,
and my parents were remarried,
and I was baptized and came to know Christ
as my personal savior.
Her father abandoned the family again when she was 12.
It was real painful,
and it just about killed my mother.
She was a very submissive wife.
She was too submissive, and it angered me.
She let my dad step all over her.
Because of him, I think I went through life
for a long time hating all men.
Anita described her most intense adolescent memory
as a feeling of intense ambition.
A relentless drive to succeed
at doing well the thing I loved.
Glory, glory, hallelujah.
It's truth is marching on.
But Anita's ambition conflicted with her submissive role
as a traditional Christian woman.
In 1960, Anita married Bob Green,
Miami's top disc jockey,
the only after he relentlessly badgered her into it.
This is what heterosexuals do, fellas.
Green was allegedly a controlling and abusive husband.
Feminist Andrea Dworkin claims,
Green manipulated Bryant with a cruelty
nearly unmatched in modern love stories.
And Anita rationalized the abuse, saying,
Despite our sometimes violent scraps, I love him for it.
But while submitting to her husband
and raising four children, Anita was still able
to build the career she'd always wanted.
By the 1970s, she was on the payroll of Big Orange Juice,
earning half a million dollars a year,
enough to move her family
into a 27-room Spanish mansion on Biscayne Bay.
So Anita Bryant struggled all her life for her success.
Did she really deserve to lose it all
just because she took a stand
for something she believed in?
Anita Bryant's role as a leader in the campaign
against homosexuals may be hurting her campaign
to sell orange juice.
Are you being black-bowled?
Well, it looks that way.
It's worse than that.
We're being threatened, and there's all kinds of harassment,
even with my job with Florida Citrus.
I have been blacklisted for exercising the right of a mother
to defend her children and all children
against their being recruited by homosexuals.
Her entire life had become a series of catastrophes.
She'd been dropped as a spokesperson by the orange growers.
She'd been dropped as a commentator
on the Orange Bowl parade.
She lost a television show contract.
Her bookings dropped drastically.
It destroys the dream that I had had since I was a child
to entertain and present wholesome subjects
to my fellow Americans
because I dared to speak out for straight and normal America.
No one has paid as dearly as Anita Bryant
for taking a public stand on something she believed in.
I remember lying in the bed in my mother's house
in a fetal position and wanting to die.
Gay activists in the 1970s didn't exactly limit their tactics
to polite debate in the free marketplace of ideas.
Stop Anita now!
Stop Anita now!
Homosexuals started fighting back.
The gays formed new groups
and picketed the performers' public appearances,
forcing her to cancel a few.
Gay activists routinely compared Anita to Adolf H.
They created pastiches of her orange juice slogan.
They blamed her for hate crimes.
They burned her an effigy.
They disrupted events she was involved in.
They printed toilet paper with her face on it.
Some sent Anita death threats.
Or they mailed her rotting oranges,
dead cockroaches, human excrement.
See, this is how you canceled people before phones.
Instead of shitposting,
you would simply mail actual human shit
through the United States Postal Service.
Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor gloom of night.
Anita's husband pleaded to supporters.
How would you men feel if you opened a letter
and there was a photo of your wife's head superimposed
on some other female nude body
in the most lewd and shocking sexual act you can imagine?
You can imagine quite a lot.
I do think it would be fair to say
that a lot of the rhetoric did take on a misogynistic tone.
Lillian Faderman recounts that lesbians,
particularly lesbian feminists, abhorred the sexist terms
that were being used to characterize Anita Bryant.
Bitch and whore, gay men called her.
The harassment escalated to the point
where Anita had to cancel her book tour
due to demonstrations and bomb threats from gay activists.
And of course, there was the pie.
So much for the tolerant Mattachine society.
It's kind of a deep cut.
Well, something to entertain the boomer queers.
Gay activists claimed to stand for human rights,
but what about Anita's right to free speech?
I wish I had some literal pearls to clutch.
Civil libertarian Nat Hentoff wrote in his 1992 book,
Free Speech for Me, but Not for Thee,
that the orange shoes boycott reminded him
of a little thing called McCarthyism.
Have you ever considered that being pro-gay
is quite similar to being anti-gay
and that both are opinions?
As Anita tells it, she and her foot soldiers of God
were the victims of sinister gay carpetbaggers.
The foot soldiers were housewives and mothers,
religious and civic leaders in opposition
to a well-organized, highly financed,
and politically militant group of homosexual activists.
We were cast as bigots, haters, discriminators,
and deniers of basic human rights.
And all of this happened because we were sincerely concerned
for our children and our community.
So Anita's version of the story is that she
and a handful of well-intentioned Christian mothers
were cast as bigots by a highly funded mafia
of gay extremists, all because they had
a few teensy tiny concerns about the militant homosexual
cavorting with little boys.
Cavorting with little boys.
Is it really fair to call this woman a bigot?
Until the Dade County ordinance,
Anita was a registered Democrat
and considered herself a liberal.
And she never said that she hated gay people
or wanted them dead.
In fact, she even said that she loves homosexuals.
I love homosexuals, if you can believe that.
I love them enough to tell them the truth
because I know that there is hope for the homosexuals
that if they're willing to turn from sin
the same as any individual,
that they can be ex-homosexuals,
the same as there can be an ex-murder,
an ex thief, or ex-anybody.
She loves homosexuals because they can change,
just like murderers.
Would a bigot have said that?
Just about McFucking had it.
Anita was so kindhearted,
she even said that she related to the homosexual.
I can relate to the homosexual
because I've had emotional scars in my own life.
I really felt the rejection of my father.
And that is one of the things that maybe lead someone
going into homosexuality.
Look, I don't hate homosexuals.
That's the truth.
No matter what they think of my motives.
I've always said I love the sinner, but I hate the sin.
Wow, what an empath.
You know, I actually think it's really noble
how she's able to project all of her own emotional baggage
onto the marginalized group
whose rights she's trying to take away.
Okay, so we've given a fair hearing to both sides,
to many sides.
We've considered all the evidence.
Now, let's suppose there's no longer a gun to my head
and ask, did Anita Bryant really deserve
that pie to the face?
Well, yes, obviously.
But the point I'm trying to make here
is that it's possible to take genuine virtues
like nuance, empathy, and impartiality,
and to twist them into fucked up apologia
for horrible, oppressive behavior.
If you play this game long enough,
you can essentially explain away
the entire concept of bigotry
and conclude that, in reality, there are no bigots.
There's only tragically misunderstood people
with difficult childhoods and valid concerns
cruelly demonized by militant activists
defaming and silencing them
with such reputation-ruining slurs as homophobe.
Now, because you, viewers, are smart, media-literate people,
you understand framing, so you already know
that I'm about to compare Anita Bryant to J.K. Rowling.
In case you didn't know, J.K. Rowling...
Oh, J.K. Rowling is a popular author
who used to write whimsical stories about wizard school,
but who now writes books about transvestite serial killers
masturbating into stolen panties
because she's lost her goddamn mind.
Lo-ho-ho, dear readers.
Christ, what a nightmare.
Chapter three, The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling.
All right, kids, it's trans in time.
Last year, I agreed to be a guest on a podcast
about J.K. Rowling, hosted by Megan Phelps Roper,
an escapee from the Westboro Baptist Church.
The notorious hate group from Topeka, Kansas,
most known for protesting the funerals of soldiers
with signs that say God hates f***s.
God and me both, I'm tired of you people.
J.K. Illy, the Westboro Baptist Church
is one of the most famous homophobic hate groups
in the world.
In a way, I'm like a lifelong fan of these people.
I've watched all the Louis Theroux documentaries.
I went to a counter-protest in 2010.
I remember how when I was in high school,
the Westboro Baptist Church was like the one thing
that conservatives and liberals could agree on
because they hated the troops and the gays,
essentially the two genders of 2006.
But let's not pretend
that the Westboro Baptist Church is all bad.
Okay, when Megan was at Westboro,
she used to do these amazing Lady Gaga parodies
about how the gays are going to hell,
which to this day, I am a big fan of.
But what did you say you think I loved your praying?
He hates all you do, cause you love fornicating.
It's perfect.
I love it.
Play it at my funeral.
Stop praying, stop praying, God will not hear you anymore.
You've got the boys and the girls to be proud of.
For, forever burned.
Go to the spot and you just keep pushing on
to the hell where you were forever burned.
Megan left the Westboro Baptist Church in 2012
after a crisis of faith precipitated by a power struggle
within the church.
She wrote about all this in her book Unfollow,
which is honestly a pretty interesting account
of deconversion and the circumstances
that lead someone to leaving a hate group.
Megan contacted me for her podcast
because I had criticized to take a ruling
in a video a couple of years ago.
Now you might be wondering, why would I think
that a person who's been carrying a God hates sign
most of her life would be the correct person
to lead an international conversation
about the intricacies of LGBT issues?
Because I'm an idiot, happy.
Basically, I agreed to the podcast
because it's a pretty irresistible pitch.
A former member of the Westboro Baptist Church
wants to mediate a conversation between me
and the author of Harry Potter.
Would you say no to that?
Maybe, if you're smart.
Last month, the podcast was announced
in an essay by Megan titled,
The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling.
Obviously, a tendentious framing that posits Jo-ro
as the target of an irrational trans witch hunt.
The essay included a teaser quote from Rowling
complaining that she's been profoundly misunderstood,
as well as a photo of an angry trans mob
holding a rotten hell rolling sign
juxtaposed with an image of conservative Christians
burning Harry Potter books in the early 2000s.
This did not bode well.
So I disavowed the podcast on Twitter
because I didn't want my name lending legitimacy
to some kind of unearned J.K. Rowling redemption tour.
This caused Megan's mom, Shirley, to quote tweet me,
calling me a bigot against God.
I mean, God is one of the most vulnerable minorities.
There's only one of him.
And he could really use your help, Shirley.
I said in these tweets that I felt used,
which that is how I felt,
but ultimately I need to take full responsibility
for my involvement in this.
The thing about being a guest on a documentary like this
is you honestly have no idea
what the final product is gonna be like.
So the decision to participate is always a leap of faith.
And I can't really say that Megan misled me.
There are red flags from the beginning
and I ignored them because I was projecting
my own hopes onto the situation.
You know, it's a compelling story.
I liked the idea that this famous former bigot
could talk some sense into a famous current bigot.
We all love a good redemption arc.
And I started my career de-radicalizing the alt-right.
That's something I've moved away from,
but there's still part of me
that wants to see the best in people
and to believe that people can change
if you just talk to them and make a good enough argument.
Maybe my wishful thinking was that
because Megan left Westboro,
that must mean that she must understand
the intricacies of anti-LGBT bigotry, right?
And despite no evidence for this,
my hope was that Megan would act as a trans ally
and could be really effective at confronting Jo-Roe
about all the transphobic stuff she says, right?
Wrong.
I'm Megan Phelps-Roper,
and these are The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling.
The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling
is more than seven hours of apologetics for J.K.R.
The podcast presents Rowling as a complex,
humane, heroic figure with an inspiring feminist backstory.
Jo Rowling's rise to success
is this sort of feminist Cinderella story.
Now cruelly besieged by a vicious mob
of transgender activists.
First no vote, first no vote!
All because she, as a woman,
had a few tiny concerns about the transgender rapists.
I had been becoming increasingly concerned
about the way in which women were being shut down.
Women who I felt had some very valid concerns.
Megan uncritically accepts Rowling's framing
of the conflict as feminists versus trans rights activists
whom Rowling describes as
a powerful, insidious, misogynistic movement.
For the first five hours of this podcast,
Rowling's critics are presented as an irrational mob
of enraged, shrieking, sexually violent fanatics.
You are murdering trans children!
Let's get out by the time!
A huge amount of I want her to choke on my fat trans dick.
And you did it at my birthday dinner!
There's this one clip of some kind of Antifa super soldier's
abrasive screaming that they play like once per episode.
Fuck you, you ugly piece of shit!
You look like you got your teeth knocked out
you fucking fascist!
Nobody knows who you are and nobody cares
and you will die alone!
And then it usually cuts to like somber monks
chanting some kind of medieval lament.
You will die alone and you will burn in hell!
Ooh, species.
Just in case you didn't get from the title
that this is a witch hunt.
Ooh, species.
Do you guys get it?
Do you get it yet?
You got your teeth knocked out you fucking fascist!
Let's get out by the time!
And then these mobs of irrational,
misogynistic, trans rights fanatics
are contrasted with this poignant story
of how J.K. Rowling escaped her abusive husband
to publish our generation's most beloved novels.
I was still very committed to those parts
that I'd plotted in darkness, as it were,
because there was a truth to them
and there was a power to them.
The only voices of genuine trans descent
appear in episode six out of seven,
more than five hours in.
And there's only two of us.
One is me.
Shame.
And the other is a teenager named Noah
who kind of just seems like he wants to be liked
and understood and wishes that his favorite author
would please stop saying bigoted things about him.
I'm such a big Harry Potter fan,
or I was such a big Harry Potter fan,
especially because it was so hard to be in the real world.
I can't even state how important it was to me.
J.K. Rowling, I stole her biography
from my third grade classroom
and I kept it for a long time
because I just loved reading it
because I just admired her so much.
It's honestly pretty heartbreaking to listen to.
On my last day editing this video,
I got in touch with Noah.
I asked him if he had any thoughts about the podcast
he wanted me to pass along, and this is what he said.
I want to emphasize that the stakes of this issue
are very different from any sort of rhetorical debate.
Conversation, dialogue, and debate are important,
but for many of the most vulnerable people in society,
the outcome of this conversation dictates their health,
wellbeing, and ability to survive.
How we treat or talk to people like J.K. Rowling
should come second to fighting for maintained access
to healthcare, support, and general resources
for children and adolescents seeking gender care.
I agree.
The most frustrating thing about this podcast
is that it refuses to be honest about what it is.
They spend seven hours implying that J.K. Rowling
is the victim of a witch hunt
in the most heavy-handed way imaginable.
These are the witch trials of J.K. Rowling.
I mean, turf is basically witch.
But if you point this out, they just deny it.
Show me the actual words, Jack.
Show me where I said I'm the victim of a witch hunt
by trans people.
You're on a podcast called The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling.
Yes, a podcast on which I never once say
I'm a victim of a witch hunt by trans people.
What are you talking about?
I'm not scamming the government, if that's what you're saying.
Your license plate says scammin'.
Uh, no.
What do you mean, no?
Yes.
Joanne, show me where I ever said
that I'm the target of a witch hunt, you liar.
Why would you even think that?
You're crazy.
By the way, come get your This Witch Doesn't Burn t-shirt.
For sale now at Wild Woman Workshop.
And Meghan is not much better.
Like, there's this whole section in episode two
where Meghan interviews Christians
who burned Harry Potter books in the 1990s,
and this is obviously meant to be foreshadowing.
So, looking back, would you say that the Christian parents
were maybe part of a moral panic?
Yeah, absolutely.
It's a scary world out there.
Meghan doesn't explicitly say she thinks
trans protests against Joe Roe
are equivalent to the Christian ones in the 90s,
but she does heavily imply it.
There was an explosive reaction to Rowling's tweets,
which led many, including lifelong fans of her work,
to condemn her and to call for her books to be banned,
boycotted, and in some cases, burned.
When confronted about the obvious implications
of the podcast's title,
Meghan said, the title is ambiguous.
Toward the end of her conversations,
I spent a long time talking with J.K. Rowling
about discernment,
about how a person can ever know
if they're standing up for what's right
or joining a moral panic.
I think you'll be surprised by the thoughts she shares.
Meghan, I was not surprised.
I know I won't ever regret having stood up
on this issue, ever.
The podcast released new episodes weekly,
and whenever Meghan was challenged
about the blatant one-sidedness,
Meghan would respond, oh, you just think that
because you haven't listened to the whole podcast yet.
Maybe you should preserve judgment.
Much more of other perspectives is coming.
Make sure to tune in next week.
More bombshell revelations to come.
Well, I've listened to the whole podcast now,
and I truly do not think that anyone
with basic media comprehension skills
could come away from this thinking
that the main intent was anything other
than to portray J.K. Rowling as the martyr
of an unjust, what's the word, witch hunt.
This is the obvious implication of the podcast
from the first words to the very last.
And of course, Rowling does literally get the last word.
The final episode concludes with this.
There are more important things in this world
than being popular, and that doesn't mean
it's more important to me to be right.
It means it's more important to me to do the right thing.
Why would you end on that note?
Why would anything about this podcast be the way it is
if Meghan didn't fundamentally believe
that J.K. Rowling isn't the right?
I don't regret it because I did the right thing.
Like, there really is no other reasonable way
to interpret this, so I wish that she would just be honest.
If you believe that J.K. Rowling is the misunderstood victim
of a witch hunt, then just say that.
Make the argument you want to make.
Don't crouch and hide behind this disavowal,
this obfuscating veil of just asking questions.
Don't rely on innuendo and framing
and lack-for-most Gregorian chanting to make your point,
while coyly denying you have any kind of agenda beyond,
I just believe in conversation.
I don't know, I just find this a slippery
and dishonest way to argue.
But if you happen to be a fan of slippery
and dishonest arguments, you're in luck,
because there is more where that came from.
This video is sponsored by Canabox.
Canabox offers fresh human meat
delivered directly to your doorstep.
As an alphabet mafiosa, sometimes I just can't fit
the most dangerous game into my busy lifestyle
of destroying the family and recruiting children.
Whenever a new box arrives, I get out my copy
of Bless This Food, the Anita Bryant family cookbook.
The best thing about human meat delivered
to your home by mail in the dead of night?
You don't know who you're eating,
so it's totally guilt-free and ethically sourced.
Maybe.
There's no ethical consumption under capitalism.
That means you're not allowed to cancel me.
Chapter four, Joe Roe's Transphobia.
That's it.
I'm going full Slytherin.
In episode five of The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling,
Joe Roe compares trans activists to death eaters,
the fictionalized fascists in Harry Potter.
My position is that this activist's movement,
in the form that it's currently taking,
echoes the very thing that I was
warning against in Harry Potter.
The Death Eaters claimed we have been made
to live in secret, and now is our time.
I am fighting what I see as a powerful, insidious,
misogynistic movement.
When an article then claimed she had
equated trans people to death eaters,
the podcast's PR firm reached out, demanding a correction,
because she only equated the movement to death eaters,
not trans people in general.
Yeah, I don't hate marginalized people,
I just hate it when they advocate for themselves.
So I do have to be very careful with my wording here,
lest a defamation letter arrive by owl.
J.K. Rowling's bigotry is exhausting to argue with,
because she expresses it as an endless series
of what are called Mott and Bailey arguments.
A Mott and Bailey argument is named after a type of castle
consisting of a mott, that is a tower atop a mound or hill,
easy to defend, and a Bailey, a fenced courtyard
that's much more vulnerable to attack, difficult to defend.
So a Mott and Bailey argument is when someone makes
a provocative claim that's difficult to defend, the Bailey.
And then, when confronted with counter arguments,
they walk it back to a much less controversial
and easy to defend version of the claim, the Mott.
For example, Rowling will make an ambiguous claim
like sex is real, what does she mean by that?
What are the implications?
Well, in the podcast, she explains that she thinks
it's very sinister that in the Associated Press style guide,
it says that instead of referring to a trans woman
as a man who identifies as a woman,
journalists should simply say a trans woman is a woman.
That, from the Associated Press, is hugely powerful.
They've edged from identifies as a woman,
so a man identifies as a woman,
and I think we all understand what that means,
into is a woman, and that's precisely the creep
that I'm talking about.
We are using language to make accurate definition
of sex difference unspeakable.
Which is, of course, false, because the words trans
and cis exist precisely to make it easy
to talk about sex difference.
Thanks a lot, Tumblr.
God, there's this whole section of the podcast
that sort of implies that transgender people
are invented on Tumblr, which I'm not even
gonna get into because we don't have time.
Rowling has also tweeted that she thinks
that all people who menstruate
must be referred to as women.
Or was it wombin'?
I'm pretty sure it was womp mud.
So trans men and transmasculine people,
they're all women, and it must be referred to as women,
because J.K. Rowling demands it.
This is controversial, right?
Calling trans women men who identify as women,
calling trans men women.
This is the Bailey in her Ma and Bailey argument.
Trans women are men, trans men are women.
That's the controversial interpretation of sex is real.
Now, when accused of transphobia and facing backlash,
Rowling walks the argument back and says,
I'm being persecuted just for saying
that women should be allowed to discuss
how being female has shaped our lives.
Women should be allowed to discuss
how being female has shaped our lives.
This is the obvious and utterly uncontroversial
interpretation of sex is real, the Mott.
And virtually every argument sophisticated transphobes make
about trans people follows this pattern.
J.K. Rowling's friend and ally, Maya Forstader,
will tweet inflammatory things like,
men cannot change into women.
But then when she's criticized,
she'll say that she's being attacked
for gender critical belief.
Gender critical belief, which is the absolutely
ordinary belief about sex,
that your mother and your grandmother are women,
that being female is a thing.
Your mother and grandmother are women.
Being female is a thing.
That's literally all I'm saying.
But if that's literally all she was saying,
then no one would be mad, would they?
Nine, nah.
Men cannot change into women is the Bailey.
Your mom is a woman is the Mott.
Your mom's a woman.
This is why arguing with these people is infuriating.
They'll insinuate that trans women are dangerous rapists,
exhibitionists, and voyeurs.
Then when trans people understandably get mad,
they'll say, look, I'm being attacked just for saying
that being female is part of my experience.
It's dishonest.
They talk a bunch of trash about trans people.
And then when trans people talk trash back,
they pretend that they're being victimized
for making totally innocuous statements.
We can name this behavior the birthday boy argument.
I dated a 5'8 guy who'd taunt every jacked 6'3 bro he met
until they'd pull their fist back to beat him up
whereupon my ex would go, hey, hey, hey, come on.
I'm a little guy, I'm just a little guy, no.
It's also my birthday, I'm a little birthday boy.
And somehow it always worked.
So a birthday boy argument is when you make aggressive
inflammatory assertions followed by teacher, teacher,
look what he's doing to me.
When the target reacts with anything less
than extreme politeness.
Another common tactic you'll see anytime
Rowling's transphobia is discussed
is you'll see someone jump in to say,
show me one thing she's said that's transphobic.
For example, here's someone on Twitter
called large gamete producer.
It's funny, isn't it?
How these people will insist that awkward inclusive language
like people who menstruate is horribly oppressive
and degrading, but then they'll just straight up
call themselves large gamete producer.
Which, by the way, is Rowling's definition of a woman.
The woman is the producer of the large gametes.
Oh, I like it, it's very brood mother.
That Rowling's words regularly appear
in gender critical arguments shows the massive influence
that she has in the anti-trans movement.
She's like their queen, their leader,
their headmistress.
She's the best thing that ever happened to them
because Sheila Jefferies certainly wasn't persuading
a lot of people.
If you know, you know.
Large gamete producers says, JK isn't anti-trans,
give me just one direct quote that she has said
which is anti-trans.
Oh, what's that?
You can't find one?
Well, color me shocked.
Before we waste our time trying to provide examples,
let's take a look at large gamete producers profile.
Trans women are not women, they are men.
Trans men are not men, they are women.
Nothing can change that.
Sex is binary.
Like if this person doesn't think
that trans women are men, trans men are women
is a transphobic statement,
then what would they consider a transphobic statement?
This is why the first question you should always ask
such people is, do you believe
that transphobia is a legitimate concept?
What are some examples of statements
that you would consider transphobic?
Because many of them don't believe
that transphobia is a valid concept
because they don't think that trans people
are a legitimate minority.
There's no such thing as a trans woman.
There's no such thing as a trans person.
There is no such thing.
There are people that call themselves these things
that may have other issues manifesting
that then make them think they're this, but no.
We have to stop using any words like transgender.
There may be more words that we have to say
in order to say that.
We may call it transgender ideology,
but when it comes to a person,
they may be following transgender ideology,
but they are not transgender.
There is no such thing as a man or a woman
being anything other than a man or a woman.
So when they say, show me an example
of something transphobic J.K. Rowling has said.
This is a trap.
They're just messing with you.
There's nothing that she could have said
that they would acknowledge as transphobic.
Now, if you're someone who believes
that transphobia is a valid concept
and you believe that trans people are a legitimate minority,
but you just genuinely are unaware
of what J.K. Rowling has said on the topic,
then I will refer you to my past video
on J.K. Rowling's transphobia
rather than recapping it all here.
Just keep in mind that she's gotten significantly worse
since I made that video.
I mean, just look at her Twitter feed.
True, she never says the phrase, I hate trans people
because she's not a complete idiot,
but Anita Bryant never said, I hate gay people.
She said, save our children.
I love women, actually.
For that matter, I'm pretty sure David Duke
doesn't say, I hate black people,
but he will share a lot of statistics
about anti-white crime.
So this is not really a very good criterion
for deciding who's a bigot, is it?
What J.K. Rowling does do is tweet again and again
about transgender rapists,
about the danger trans women pose to cis women.
She implies that trans inclusive language
is equivalent to the dystopia of Orwell's 1984.
She writes at length about the vague nefarious cabal
of endocrinologists and ideolog
that is supposedly persuading confused vulnerable girls
to transition.
To quote Washington Post opinion writer Monica Hess,
I do not know what is in Rowling's heart,
but reading her Twitter feed, this is the overall effect.
Her Twitter feed does not ask its readers to think,
it asks them to fear.
It creates phobias of trans people.
It creates trans phobias, if you will.
Rowling has also attacked pro-trans politician
Nicholas Sturgeon, calling her destroyer of women's rights
via a t-shirt she got from anti-trans heat monger
Posey Parker.
There's no such thing as a trans woman,
there's no such thing as a trans person,
there is no such thing.
If there's one thing that I want people to understand
about Rowling's transphobia,
it's that this is not a case of someone posting
a couple insensitive tweets
that got blown out of proportion.
Rowling is an extremely outspoken opponent of trans rights.
This has been her main issue for several years now.
And because she's so famous,
she's become the de facto global champion
of backlash to trans rights.
Truly, the Anita Bryant of transphobia.
Except worse, because she's way more famous
and way more liked than Anita Bryant ever was.
Rowling has also praised self-described
theocratic fascist Matt Walsh
for his transphobic propaganda film.
She refers to trans women as trans identified males,
known as Tims among people for whom
this has become an unhealthy obsession.
She retweets images of the trans colors
being erased from the progress flag.
Also, the colors representing queer people of color.
So, you know, great.
Love that.
Often, Rowling pretends that she's being transphobic
for the principled and valiant purpose of defending lesbians.
It's something of a fixation for her.
I find this particularly gross
because it plays into the lesbophobic trope
that gay women are especially anti-trans,
when in fact, they're the least transphobic demographic
of cis people.
According to a survey of young adults in the UK,
lesbians were most likely to know a trans person
and also most likely at 96% to say that they're supportive
or very supportive of trans people.
So, I think it's fair to say that most gay women
are probably not super thrilled
whenever Jo-ro the lesbian defender logs on.
My own partner is a cis lesbian,
and I asked her if she enjoys JK Rowling
defending her from the transsexuals, and she said,
it makes me want to gouge out my eyes like Oedipus.
By the way, here is JK Rowling enjoying a bit of banter
with her friend Baroness Emma Nicholson,
the co-founder of Rowling's charity Lumos.
Baroness Nicholson is a conservative member
of the House of Lords
who voted against same-sex marriage in 2013.
In 2020, she tweeted in defense of her vote,
claiming that gay marriage would lead to degrading
the status of women and girls.
Truly, one of the great lesbian allies.
And in 2022, here is JK Rowling
joking around with Lady Nicholson.
Excellent question, Emma.
Defining lesbians as same-sex attracted women
excludes and depresses the most marginalized of all groups,
i.e. people with penises and beards who want to shag women.
And before you say, but aren't they straight men?
They're wearing eyeliner pickets.
Try for a moment to put aside any nostalgia
you may have for the Gryffindor common room
and just look at this interaction for what it is.
Two straight women,
one of whom is a homophobic peer of the realm,
having a nice little chuckle together
about how trans women are men wearing eyeliner.
So that's it, right?
It's over.
Case closed.
I still like hammering things.
I'm not gonna argue anymore
about whether JK Rowling is transphobic
because anyone who believes in transphobia
can see that obviously she is.
The question now is whether transphobia
is the sort of thing that progressives can denounce,
the way we at least aspire to denounce racism,
misogyny, and homophobia.
That's usually what we're talking about
when we talk about JK Rowling, right?
Whether it's fair to cancel her.
That's what the witch trials of JK Rowling is about.
The Rowling debate is a proxy for a larger question.
Is transphobia a legitimate viewpoint
worthy of polite consideration and respect
in liberal humane society?
Or is it just an ugly prejudice
that we can justifiably react to
with scorn and condemnation?
And there's an even broader question here
about whether we can justifiably react
to anything with scorn and condemnation.
Is canceling ever warranted?
Is it right to condemn racism, homophobia, and misogyny?
Or should we allow spokespeople for these prejudices
a respected position in the free marketplace of ideas?
Where we can all sit around debating
the legitimacy of gay marriage
or the possible merits of a white ethnostate?
Is the final solution a myth promulgated
by the international Jew?
Are yoga pants to blame for sexual violence?
Wouldn't the taxpayers save a lot of money
if there weren't so many disabled people?
Who knows?
These are open questions.
Let's sit down with people on both sides.
On many sides and have calm,
civil conversations about it
for the rest of our goddamn lives.
Chapter five, debate.
Sorry, I know I did this look before
and it's like not related to the video topic at all,
but it just makes me feel sliving.
The boy who slived.
So Megan Phelps's rober's viewpoint
seems to be that scorn and condemnation
are never appropriate.
That we should approach every conflict
with empathy and compassion
even when dealing with the worst,
most destructive people in the world.
Hi, my name is Megan.
And my heretical belief is that
even the people who seem to be
the worst, most destructive people in the world
are human beings who deserve compassion and empathy
if we want to find a way to change their minds.
In her book, in her TED Talk, in her public appearances,
Megan expresses the idea that society
has recently become polarized in some unprecedented way
that we've all become extremists.
That in some sense,
we've all become the Westboro Baptist Church.
I can't help but see in our public discourse
so many of the same destructive impulses
that ruled my former church.
She identifies things like certainty,
vilification of compromise,
us versus them thinking,
suppression of empathy,
and celebration of death and misfortune
as Westboro-like elements in public discourse.
And this really bothers Megan
because she claims that a decade ago,
when she went on Twitter to tweet about
how f***ing marriage is abominable to God,
it was people who engaged her in a civil, rational way
that eventually led her to renouncing Westboro's ideology.
And like, I don't entirely disagree with Megan about this.
She's totally right that if you want to change people's minds,
then approaching them with compassion and empathy
is usually the best way to do that.
But Megan reaches another conclusion
that I don't agree with,
which is that because compassion and civil conversation
are most likely to persuade people,
we should never cancel anyone,
even the most horrible bigots.
And canceling is a pretty meaningless term at this point.
But what Megan means is
we shouldn't say mean things to bigots.
We shouldn't boycott or counter protest
or raise our voices.
We shouldn't shun or exclude anyone
because that's just not how you change minds.
And I get why Megan thinks this, right?
De-radicalization was a really important part
of her life experience.
She's also clearly holding out hope
that other members of her family will leave Westboro
and have a life on the outside.
She has a quote from her mom in her Twitter bio.
"'The last lines of her book address her family.
"'I want to tell them that I love them.
"'I'll just have to find another way.'
"'This is touching and human
"'and also kind of a conflict of interest.'"
The problem is Megan's views about this only makes sense
if you assume that Megan is the main character of reality.
If you assume that the moral improvement of bigots
is more important than protecting the people they target.
Or if you assume that changing bigots' minds
is the only way to make social progress, which it isn't.
As far as I know, Anita Bryant is 83 years old
and she's still homophobic.
But even without Anita's blessing,
gay rights have still somehow managed to progress
since the 1970s because gay activists
didn't need to persuade Anita Bryant.
They needed to defeat her and that's what they did.
We have to accept that realistically,
persuading all the bigots is just not an option.
Yes, we should convince as many people as possible,
but there will always be bigots
and mocking them, shaming them, or boycotting them
is, I think, a perfectly valid strategy.
Does that mean that when we cancel bigots,
we're acting kind of like the Westboro Baptist Church?
Nah.
You would only think that
if you're a total moral relativist.
I guess controversial opinion, but bigotry is shameful
and it should be shamed.
I'll say it.
You know, if you're testing out some racist ideas
in your head, you might feel afraid
to express them publicly for fear of being shamed or judged.
Is that because we live in an Orwellian dystopia
that punishes people for wrong think?
No, it's because racism is dangerous and shameful
and you should be ashamed of it
and the people judging you are right to do so.
And sure, there are some very patient people
who devote their lives to de-radicalizing bigots,
which I think is a perfectly noble thing to do.
There's a guy named Daryl Davis
who's befriended members of the Ku Klux Klan
for over 30 years and he claims he's convinced
more than 200 of them to leave.
And good for him.
De-radicalization is a valid strategy,
but it cannot be the only strategy
and it must not be the primary strategy
because we're not going to defeat racism
by telling black people to be a little nicer to racists.
Feminists would be wasting their time
trying to convince Andrew Tate to respect women.
In general, I think that the massive effort
that it takes to maybe persuade bigots
is better spent persuading other people
not to listen to them.
And it's also worth cautioning that de-radicalization
is often a messy and incomplete process.
20-year-old white nationalist Peter Cytanovic
became the face of the fascist unite the right rally in 2017
when a photo of him mid-scream Tiki Torch in Hand
was published in news outlets all over the country.
Peter was unrepentant in interviews
he gave immediately after the rally,
but he began to question his beliefs
after befriending a muscling woman who,
according to Charlotte McDonald Gibson,
challenged his views without insulting him,
allowing him to understand the hurt he had caused.
Peter is no longer a white nationalist,
but that doesn't mean he's fleshed out
every trace of bigotry.
In a 2019 interview with the London School
of Economics student paper, Peter said,
I don't like the whole transgender thing.
You're born either a man or a woman.
So he maybe still has a little bit of work to do.
When I did de-radicalization work on YouTube,
I used to get some criticism from people of color
who were not thrilled that I was bringing
a bunch of semi-reformed racists over to the left,
a frustration that I totally understand.
To paraphrase YouTuber Ian Danskin,
diverse leftist communities are maybe not
the best holding space for someone who's
a bit of a Nazi but working on it.
In the case of Megan Phelps Roper,
I don't know if she has lingering bigoted sentiments,
but what she does have is a kind of hyper-vigilant
skepticism about anything she perceives as ideology.
This is pretty common with people
who used to be religious fundamentalists.
They were so certain they were right,
only to realize that everything they believed
about the world is wrong.
So they become distrustful of any strong moral convictions
because it reminds them of their former fanaticism.
Coming from Westboro, where I believed so strongly
that I was doing the right thing,
and then to leave and come to believe
that it was so destructive and harmful,
I had this moment in time and it lasted for many months
where I was like, how can I ever trust my own mind again?
This kind of skepticism is in some ways a good impulse,
but valuing dispassionate intellectualism above all else
can cause problems, especially where topics
of social justice are concerned.
Because it can lead you to this kind of toxic centrism
that asks, why are marginalized people so unwilling
to have calm, philosophical debates
about whether they should have rights?
Are they afraid of dangerous ideas?
Atheist philosopher, Sam Harris,
in his podcast about Meghan's podcast,
can we talk about how there are too many podcasts?
I'm calling for a complete and total shutdown of podcasts
until we can figure out what's going on.
Sam Harris and his podcast about Meghan's podcast
complained that trans activism and activism in general
is plagued by a mental illness and hysteria.
I frankly think there's a fair degree
of mental instability and even frank mental illness
in the activist community.
I mean, in really in all activist communities,
the level of viciousness and hysteria is,
it's hard to know what to compare it to.
Diversity when man accuses trans women of being hysterical.
Is it really hysteria to react with strong emotions
when your basic inclusion in society is up for debate?
Aren't there certain situations
where strong emotions are warranted?
It reminds me of this awful episode
of Joe Rogan feet Ben Shapiro,
where little Benny argues that gay marriage is immoral
with his usual whining sophistry.
And Joe gently raises objections
for Ben to talk circles around.
The human sex drive was made to procreate
within a stable relationship in order to progenerate
and have future generations of people.
Misuse of that sex drive in any way,
whether you're talking about from masturbation
to homosexual activity,
is therefore a diminishment of the use of that drive.
That's the natural law case against homosexual activity.
All of the top comments on this video are like this.
Imagine talking about different beliefs
while still having a productive conversation.
Things progress when you don't demonize people.
The discussion here was excellent.
Two guys with opposing opinions,
speaking calmly and intellectually without cursing,
shouting and making disparaging comments about each other.
This is how it should be done.
Kudos to both of them.
Joe is a great interviewer.
He can totally disagree with someone
and still have a calm, collective conversation.
This is how it should be.
Just two people sharing ideas,
learning different point of views from each other.
This is why Joe is the number one podcast.
Joe Rogan beautifully asked the tough questions
and Ben answers honestly, he is strong in his faith.
I love this debate because it's two so contrasting views
and they have a civil conversation.
Great learning.
Yeah, it's easy for two straight men
to have a dispassionate theoretical conversation
about the ethics of homosexuality
because it's not their lives
and their relationships that are up for debate.
These people don't understand the emotional burden
placed on marginalized people
who are asked to defend their rights.
Like if you're straight,
do you want to publicly debate whether your marriage is valid?
Andrew Dworkin claimed
that penetrative heterosexual intercourse
is inherently an act of violence.
I've noticed that most straight men
don't want to have a calm, civil conversation about that.
So imagine how they'd react
if there was a powerful political movement
to criminalize penetration or revoke their right to marry.
Add in a lifetime of ostracism, family rejection,
bullying and discrimination,
and maybe then you'll begin to understand
the hysteria of a lot of queer people.
It is my right to raise my child
with the moral precepts
that I find to be beneficial for my child.
Beto O'Rourke does not get to raise my child.
And if he tries, I will meet him at the door with a gun.
That is insane.
Wow, Ben Shapiro threatening violence
because he can't handle the debate.
Sounds like a classic case of hysteria to me.
Why can't Ben Shapiro just have a polite conversation
about Beto O'Rourke transing his children?
I now have two choices.
One is to leave the country utterly.
Two is to pick up a gun.
Those are the only choices that you have left me.
Dave Rubin is a gay conservative
whose career requires that he convince his right-wing audience
that he's one of the good ones.
This means that he's willing to sit across
from his so-called friend, homophobe Ben Shapiro,
and listen to Ben say he would never attend
his anniversary party
because it would be tantamount to endorsing sin.
There's a difference between me
just being friends with Dave
and me actively participating in an event
that I feel is religiously sinful.
The two of them then congratulate themselves
about how they can still be great friends.
Why is it that we're able to do this
and most people can't do this?
That's what I'm curious about.
We go home at night and we can have our own lives.
And here's Dave having a civil conversation
with conservative Glenn Beck
who compares homosexuality to alcoholism
and then congratulates himself
on having the conversation.
I'm a deeply religious man
and my religion says man and a woman,
that is the basic building block of family.
And that's what I believe,
but I also know God created you
just like he created me, flaws and all.
I believe I have a gene, they've never found it,
that makes me very susceptible to alcoholism
because it runs in my family.
So does craziness, but it runs in my family.
Well, Dave smiles and nods
probably because he's thinking about
how much he enjoys the taste of boots.
Usually I just take out a picture of me and DeSantis
and then we're good because they get it, they get it.
That's my governor, yeah.
I think a lot of straight people look at Dave Rubin
and they see finally a reasonable gay person
who doesn't scream, beg it, at everyone who disagrees
and can actually have a civil conversation.
But that's not what I see.
I look at Dave Rubin
and I see a spineless boot-looking doormat
who won't even defend his own family
from the most fundamental disrespect.
I also can't help but notice
that none of these civil conversations
seem to change anyone's mind.
Persuasion is more complicated
and less rational than people think.
Megan often says that she was de-radicalized on Twitter,
but if you read her book carefully,
you'll notice that that's not exactly true.
The major precipitating event for Megan's crisis of faith
was her mother's mistreatment
at the hands of an increasingly misogynistic
church leadership that made Megan feel
like she was the victim of the church for once.
She says of the church discipline,
for the first time in my life,
the accused were people I lived with
and knew most intimately.
And I knew that the judgments leveled
by the elders were wrong.
I could no longer blindly trust the judgment of these men.
So she finally experienced firsthand
what it's like to be the victim of her family.
She stopped voting for the leopards eating people's faces
party only when the leopards ate her face.
It also seems relevant to notice
that the people who had calm civil conversations
with Megan on Twitter were generally not gay people,
the people most affected by her family's violent rhetoric.
They were mostly straight men,
like director Kevin Smith,
who started hashtag saveMegan
because, quote, she's hot.
There's often an erotic component to persuasion,
and that certainly seems to be the case with Megan,
because one of the people who helped de-radicalize her
is now her husband.
And I feel like that's a relevant detail
if we're trying to understand the role of reason
and emotion in de-radicalization experiences.
I think this experience is usually more akin
to religious conversion than it is to logical reasoning.
There's also a world of difference
between the mostly private conversations
that actually lead people to reflect on their beliefs
and the spectacle of public debate.
Ben Shapiro is never going to become less homophobic
because he live streamed a civil conversation
with Dave Rubin.
So who is this conversation even for?
Well, obviously it's for the audience.
I think these civil conversations basically function
to reassure a homophobic audience
that just because they disagree with the lifestyle
doesn't mean that they hate gay people.
Look at Ben Shapiro.
He is friends with a gay.
Public debate is one way that we define the limits
of the Overton window,
the range of beliefs that are socially acceptable to hold.
So often people who want to promote bigotry
will use debate as a foot in the door.
It's a way of establishing that their prejudices
are within the realm of reasonable
and socially accepted opinion.
Here's obsessive anti-trans bigot, Graham Linnehan,
in a fury that a drag queen is on Doctor Who
without the British public having a proper debate
about these issues.
Now, why do we need to have a proper debate
about whether drag queens should be allowed on television
when drag performance has been a staple
of British entertainment
since at least the time of Shakespeare?
Life is a joke, that's just begun.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, my, my, three little mates from school.
Fishy, fishy, fishy, fish.
As I am man, my state is desperate for my master's love.
As I am woman, now I last the day.
Bigots like Graham want a perpetual debate
on their own terms
because this is how they dignify their pearl clutching.
It's how they convince the public
that their moral panic about drag queens on TV
is actually a valid concern
rather than the tedious, small-minded whiny about nothing
that it really is.
Having the debate on a biggest terms
is not a good way to win people over
unless you're really skilled
in the art of humiliating people,
which most of the time is what public debate
is actually about.
This is something that J.K. Rowling
doesn't seem to understand.
In the witch trials of J.K. Rowling,
Jorro takes a contradictory stance on deplatforming.
She brings up right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos,
saying that activists are making a strategic error
and giving Milo power by protesting his events,
making him look dangerous and sexy.
But when trans people try to deplatform TERFs,
Rowling characterizes this as silencing.
So is deplatforming a strategic error
that gives power to your opponent?
Or is it a powerful tactic of silencing?
I find Rowling's conviction
that we ought to debate Milo Yiannopoulos
really out of touch.
Milo Yiannopoulos doesn't have reasons for the things he does.
He has strategies for humiliating people.
I've taken some time out of my busy schedule,
being fabulous and doing my hair,
to prepare a speech for you.
Well, a few remarks, really.
Feminism is cancer, thank you very much.
To again quote Ian Danskin,
you can't really reason with someone
who thinks that feminism is cancer.
Because you don't reason with cancer, you eradicate it.
Rowling objects to the slogan,
no debate in the strongest possible terms.
And then we come to the famous two-word slogan,
the stock phrase, no debate, no debate, no debate.
We hear it all the time.
That alarms me, really alarms me.
I can't think of a purer instance of authoritarianism
than no debate.
It's kind of amazing to me that someone could think
angry trans people on Twitter
are the purest example of authoritarianism.
I truly hope that one day I am privileged enough
to be capable of such a perspective.
Before I move on, I do wanna clarify
that I do think there are trans issues
that are legitimately debatable
by people who are not bigots.
In my opinion, trans women and women's sports
is one of those issues.
But it's a complicated issue.
First of all, which sport are we talking about?
Are we talking about figure skating,
middle school field hockey?
I see no reason why trans girls
should be excluded from that.
But if we're talking about professional weightlifting,
well, then it seems plausible that trans women
who have been through male puberty
may still retain some kind of group advantage.
But not all trans women have experienced male puberty.
People are transitioning younger now,
and that's another thing you have to consider.
So I'm not against debating this issue.
I just want people to approach it
with nuance and good faith.
And currently, a lot of the people
who are vocally against trans women and women's sports
sound like this.
And we will keep men out of women's sports.
Right?
How ridiculous.
That will take place on day one.
And I don't want to debate those people.
I want to serve them a banana cream pie.
Chapter six, illiberal methods.
One of J.K. Rowling's core complaints
about the trans rights movement
is she sees it as illiberal in its methods.
So when I first became interested
and then deeply troubled by what I saw
as a cultural movement that was illiberal in its methods.
So what are these illiberal methods?
If you are saying this person is canceled,
that is the language of a dictator.
It's true.
Cancel culture is exactly how the Third Reich started.
First, they canceled the socialists,
and I did not speak out because the hashtag was trending.
But maybe we should see what an actual dictator thinks.
You know, I can't help but wonder what counts as acceptable activist methods
to an author for whom Hermione protesting slavery was taking things too far.
I am fighting what I see as a powerful, insidious, misogynistic movement.
I do not see this particular movement as either benign or powerless.
Rowling seems to think that the trans rights movement
is dangerous and authoritarian in some unprecedented way
that makes it different from all past liberation movements.
But how?
What are these illiberal methods
that distinguish trans rights activism from similar past movements?
Cancelling?
Anita Bryant was way more canceled than J.K. Rowling ever will be.
Boycotts?
Boycotts have been a staple of every progressive movement in modern history.
Disrupting feminist meetings?
Disrupting feminist meetings is a feminist tradition.
Haven't you heard of the Lavender Menace?
In 1969, Betty Friedan, author of The Feminine Mystique
and founder of the National Organization for Women
and second wave feminism in general,
coined the phrase Lavender Menace to describe the threat she believed
that lesbians posed to the women's movement.
Friedan was worried that being associated with lesbians
would make it easy to dismiss the movement as a bunch of manish man-haters.
This understandably pissed off a bunch of lesbians
who attended the second Congress to unite women in 1970
to stage what used to be known as a zap,
a disruptive public protest designed to draw attention to gay rights issues.
Think glitter bombing.
Think pies.
Half aggression, half whimsy.
Like that time the lesbian avengers zapped Rowling's friend Baroness Nicholson's house
demanding that she resign.
This podcast has pushed me over the edge.
Centrism has gone too far and I am now pro-cancel culture.
So just as the meeting was beginning,
a group of 17 lesbians wearing Lavender Menace t-shirts
switched off the lights, pulled the plug on the mic
and charged down the aisles laughing and screaming.
Their leader Rita Mae Brown took the mic and yelled,
This conference won't proceed until we talk about lesbians in the women's movement.
One of the now organizers yelled back,
I object to your coming in and taking over this meeting.
You're acting like men.
Betty Friedan would later speculate that the lesbians were a CIA sci-op
designed to make the women's movement look bad.
So the Lavender Menace disrupted the feminist meeting using illiberal tactics
not because they were against feminism,
but because they wanted lesbian exclusionary feminists to include them.
It's the same thing that's happening today when trans people disrupt feminist meetings,
as J.K. Rowling puts it,
interestingly neglecting to mention which feminist meetings these are.
I was starting to see activists behaving in a very aggressive way outside feminist meetings.
There was a feminist meeting in which they were banging and kicking on windows,
very threatening.
There's a historical obliviousness to Rowling's idea
that trans activists are somehow more aggressive than similar past movements.
Like she retweeted a transphobic gay man called Dennis Noel Cavanaugh who says,
All those gay rights and AIDS protests,
I don't remember a single one where we intimidated or silenced a woman.
Not a single one.
Not a single one.
Not a single one.
Not a single one.
Dennis has also tweeted that he preferred AIDS to the trans movement.
And also, uh, quote,
I will fucking nail you to a wall what you have done to these innocent children.
Your mutilation of these little humanned because they were gay
will be nothing compared to what I will do to you legally.
You think you are ghouls wait till I deal with you bastard and I mean to.
Dennis, it's time to log off, gorge.
I do wonder, does Dennis threatening to nail people to a wall count as illiberal methods?
I guess J.K. Rowling doesn't think so because she's never condemned it.
In fact, when Dennis's Twitter suspension ended, she was right there to welcome him back.
And she continues to retweet him.
I've always been happy to acknowledge that angry trans people on Twitter sometimes take things too far.
Things like death threats or misogynistic insults, I don't support that.
And I've called it out in the past.
Like when the leftist streamer Vosh,
drama alert, who is not trans, tweeted at J.K. Rowling,
women be quieter and start apologizing challenge.
I called him out tweeting,
Doing edgy, ironic misogyny while defending trans people magnifies the grain of truth in what TERFs say about their being misogyny in trans activism.
I tweeted that because I recognize that if people who are claiming to speak for you are doing so in a misogynistic way,
and if you let that slide, you're going to wake up one day to find that you're in a misogynistic movement.
Of course, Vosh took the criticism really well, explaining that actually I just didn't understand the complex tactical arguments
for the moral necessity of being misogynistic to J.K. Rowling.
And then he accused me of cancel culturing him while at the same time literally telling his followers to publicly shame me.
The more of you were in the replies being like, that's not what's happening right here.
Like, this is necessary, okay?
Publicly shame her into changing her mind on this.
Then bringing up my past struggle with addiction.
Move you off this site and into, I don't want to bring up the substance abuse.
So that pretty much confirms to me that Vosh doesn't actually care about advocating for trans people,
and just uses trans rights as a pretext to act like a fucking dingus.
I won't tell you to publicly shame him though, because unlike Vosh, I would never sink to that.
The point I'm trying to make is, I have no qualms about calling out people on my side whenever they go too far or cross a line.
Or do stupid tweets and then mansplain to me about how I don't understand a tactical misogyny.
Idiot.
But the same cannot be said of J.K. Rowling.
I have never once seen her call out any of the bigotry and abusiveness that is absolutely rampant in the gender-critical movement.
There's a great video called J.K. Rowling's New Friends by YouTuber Sean that exposes the dishonesty of framing this conflict as meek, concerned feminists versus the abusive trans mob.
A framing that the witch trials of J.K. Rowling accepts uncritically, citing numerous examples of death threats and abusiveness from trans advocates.
Things like, kill TERFs 2014.
How about slowly and horrendously murder TERFs in saw-like torture machines and contraptions?
Now, I don't think anyone should joke about putting people in saw traps, but also, how serious is this threat that was posted to Tumblr in 2014?
Let's use our critical thinking skills here.
Do you think that Jigsaw, the villain from the Saw movies, has a Tumblr account and is threatening TERFs?
Or do you think this was posted by a 14-year-old?
The podcast cites zero examples of death threats and abusiveness from anti-trans bigots.
And it's not exactly like you have to dig deep to find any.
I can fill the screen up with examples just from people who J.K. Rowling has explicitly supported or interacted with.
I will drive you out into the desert and bury you nine feet down, one tweet says, from a fan of J.K. Rowling.
First, I'll set you on fire and piss on your half-alive corpse, fuck trans activism, fuck gender ideology, and fuck you.
Another threat from the same user is so graphically violent and sexual, I don't know if I can even read it aloud without violating the YouTube terms of service.
But threats like this from the gender-critical side are simply not mentioned in the witch trials of J.K. Rowling.
Both Rowling and Meghan seem happy to cherry-pick threatening tweets and sound bites of shouting protesters.
Fuck you, you ugly piece of shit.
You look like you got your teeth knocked out and your fucking lashes.
As evidence that the trans movement is dangerous and insidious to the core.
But this exact technique has been used against literally every liberation movement in world history.
For example, let's consider Reclaim the Night, the protest movement against sexual violence in Britain,
which first got J.K. Rowling interested in feminism in the 1970s.
Here's how The Guardian, Britain's spineless centrist paper of note, covered a Reclaim the Night protest in 1979.
Chanting slogans against rape seems reasonable to promote awareness,
but what about the hissing and swearing at any innocent male and cries of castrate men?
We were all sympathetic to the principles of the women's liberation movement,
but we left the crowd of shouting, torch-bearing women when it became clear that my friend's brother
was running the risk of personal mutilation if he remained with us.
The protesters were allegedly singing,
Here I stand, my knife in hand, free castration on demand.
So this is how the British press covered the women's movement.
Angry, torch-bearing women screaming,
Castrate men!
Now, is that a fair representation of the women's movement?
Should we judge every movement by its most militant extremists?
Is it fair, say, to pretend that Valerie Solanus, who shot Andy Warhol,
who advocated for male extermination in her society for cutting up men manifesto,
is representative of feminism as a whole?
Many anti-feminists over the years have done exactly that.
But it's not fair, is it?
So why does J.K. Rowling think it's fair to judge the trans movement by the worst things trans people have ever tweeted?
I want her to choke on my fat trans dick.
And I made excuses for you, then.
In the fourth episode of The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling,
Meghan interviews New York Times columnist Michelle Goldberg,
who has written sympathetically about transphobic feminism.
There's a moment in this interview where Michelle kind of stumbles into an honest observation that I find fascinating.
Right, I mean, I think you'll often hear people say, you know, I'm not going to debate my basic humanity.
And part of the difficulty is that there are indeed certain issues which we have sort of decided somewhat collectively
with some sort of consensus are beyond the realm of debate.
And I think that part of what is so difficult about this issue is that there are certain people who think that this kind of consensus can be imposed,
maybe as opposed to evolve organically.
And so they're sort of desperately trying to shore it up in the hopes, I think, that if they can,
they will enjoy the same sort of assumed protection as other groups whose rights we've decided are not up for public conversation.
I think the problem is that we don't actually have a consensus.
So Michelle correctly observes that the reason trans people are often reluctant to debate our rights
is that we want the same assumed protections as other groups whose rights liberals have decided are not up for debate.
But then Michelle suggests that trans people have to debate our rights because there isn't a mainstream consensus that we deserve rights.
I am really curious to know how Michelle Goldberg thinks that past liberation movements have succeeded.
Like, does she think that women's suffrage just evolved organically?
Did suffragettes just have calm civil conversations about whether women are intellectually capable of voting until all the misogynists were rationally persuaded?
No, they stood up and demanded their right to vote, sometimes violently, especially in the UK.
Like, people forget this.
Maybe because they were called suffragettes, which is kind of a cutesy name, but the suffragettes, they murdered people.
They were suffragette terrorists.
They broke windows.
They bombed churches.
They set fire to a theater.
In 1909, a suffragette attacked Winston Churchill with a horse whip.
Queen shit, honestly.
The English suffragette Mary Lee threw a fucking hatchet at the Prime Minister's head.
And my point is not to advocate terrorism or to excuse the terrorism of past movements.
I think these kinds of tactics have tended to turn people against the movement.
I don't think it's effective.
But let's not pretend that past movements have never made demands before everyone was ready.
Because there never has been, and there never will be a time when everyone is ready.
I mean, Mary Wollstonecraft published The Vindication of the Rights of Women in 1792,
and misogyny, in case you hadn't noticed, remains rampant.
So there never has been a consensus about women's rights, and there probably never will be.
In fact, marginalized groups wouldn't need rights if there was a consensus that we deserve rights.
The whole reason to have rights is to protect you from the kind of people who think you shouldn't have them.
I mean, it's a nice thought that we can just politely persuade everyone to give us rights,
but the reality is, that's not how this works, and it never has been.
Like, how do these debate-making centrists think that slavery ended in the United States?
Well, between 1861 and 1865, there was a little event called the American Civil Debate.
See what I'm holding in my hand?
This is a high-caliber idea that I picked off the polite discussion field of Manassas.
Do you people think that American schools were integrated because all the white people in the South were persuaded
that segregation is bad?
No dum-dums.
Eisenhower had to send in the 101st Airborne to enforce that shit at gunpoint.
And my point is not to equate LGBT rights movements with Black civil rights.
I am aware that being a white queer person is not in any way equivalent to living in the aftermath of slavery.
I'm just saying that there's this tendency to sanitize history,
and to imagine that progress was smooth and bloodless, that consensus evolved organically, when it just didn't.
And then people get the impression that current movements are somehow more militant than successful past movements, when they just aren't.
I am fighting what I see as a powerful, insidious, misogynistic movement,
the cultural movement that was illiberal in its methods.
And I believe absolutely that there is something dangerous about this movement, and it must be challenged.
Why is J.K. Rowling like this?
Chapter 7. Why is J.K. Rowling like this?
J.K. Rowling loves to quote radical feminist Andrea Dworkin, whom Stepp already mentioned a couple times in this video.
I myself favor violence. Deeply. I favor it.
Dworkin is known for her extreme sex-negative views, which I don't agree with.
But she was an interesting writer, one of those half-crazed savants who gets in your head, who you can't stop thinking about.
In my opinion, Dworkin's best book is Right Wing Women, published in 1983, the era of Phyllis Schlafly and Anita Bryant.
Right Wing Women is an analysis of why so many women are drawn to conservative politics, seemingly against their own interests.
Anyone who's interested in understanding the gender-critical movement, a crypto-reactionary backlash disguising itself as feminism, should read this book.
In Dworkin's analysis, the political right makes certain metaphysical and material promises to women that both exploit and quiet some of women's deepest fears.
No one can bear to live a meaningless life. Women fight for meaning just as women fight for survival.
And conservative politics promises women meaning.
The right offers women a simple, fixed, predetermined social, biological, and sexual order. Form conquers chaos. Form banishes confusion.
The gender-critical movement offers women a brutally simple understanding of sex and gender.
A woman is an adult human female.
Right Wing anti-trans activist Posey Parker has made this phrase into the motto of the gender-critical movement.
Adult human female.
It's on billboards, it's on t-shirts, it's on banners, signs, and tweets.
Presented with the authority of a dictionary definition, it's rigid, it's orderly, it's immutable.
There are no exceptions, there are no blurred lines, there can be no change.
This mantra is a defense against the conceptual instability and chaos that gender-criticals fear.
The same fear that once drove homophobic women like Anita Bryant.
Just biologically that God made mother so that we could reproduce. Homosexuals cannot reproduce biologically.
Erasing the concept of sex removes the ability of many to meaningfully discuss their lives.
Dworkin says,
Within the frame of male domination, there is a good reason for women to hate homosexuality, both male and female.
Women are interchangeable as sex objects. Women are slightly less disposable as mothers.
The only dignity and value women get is as mothers.
Having children is the one social contribution credited to women. It is the bedrock of women's social worth.
Without childbearing, women know they have nothing. Homosexuality for women means having nothing, it means extinction.
Substitute transgenderism for homosexuality and you'll understand the gender-critical movement.
J.K. Rowling's definition of woman is this.
The woman is the producer of the large gametes.
The producer of the large gametes.
Rowling says her primary concern about young trans men is the loss of fertility.
Homosexuality, its rise in public visibility, attempts to socially legitimize or protect it, makes women expendable.
The one thing women can do and be valued for will no longer be valued.
Male homosexuality is especially terrifying because it suggests a world without women altogether, a world in which women are extinct.
This exact fear appears frequently in gender-critical rhetoric.
Trans activists are erasing women. They're erasing biological sex. They're going to call us pregnant people.
Confused girls are being robbed of their precious fertility. Trans women are going to replace biological women.
As a woman, I feel threatened because biological men are aggressively replacing women.
You will not replace us!
Sometimes this paranoia ramps up to the point of obsession and the results can be dazzling.
In September 2022, Maya Forstader, who you'll remember as the anti-trans activist whom J.K. Rowling came out as a turf to defend,
went on a full-blown Twitter rampage because the Hertfordshire County Libraries announced they were changing their children's storytime mascot from the Bookstart Bear.
If you don't know where this is going, strap in from the Bookstart Bear to a bright, vibrant, gender-neutral creature called Tala.
Are you enraged?
If not, you haven't been spending enough time on Mumsnet.
Maya tweeted the words of an indignant mother who referred to Talia as a trans bear with they-them pronouns,
describing the mascot as ideological, creepy, and gaslighting.
I cannot express how upset I feel.
The library jumped in to clarify that Tala, not Talia, isn't trans, they are an alien.
Maya then demanded to know how this alien was birthed.
Did it hatch from an egg or was it born from a mama?
Some people tried to reason with Maya.
There's an advantage in having a character that isn't identifiably male or female, as it can be equally relatable to either sex and avoid promoting gender stereotypes.
But Maya was not convinced.
It seems highly unlikely that an alien that had evolved with such recognizable vertebrate body plan is not sexually reproducing.
It's a relatable anthropomorphic character, not a slime mold.
I need to know how the alien fucks right now.
I said I need to know how the alien fucks before I can show it to my child.
When Twitter understandably laughed it up at Maya's expense, she just kept posting.
And she posted hard.
Honestly, I don't know if I've ever seen anyone post so hard.
In a lengthy diatribe, Maya wrote about the miseries of new motherhood.
You are in charge of a baby.
You have never done this before.
You haven't had a good night's sleep for months and won't for years.
Everyone has an opinion on what you are doing right and wrong, and you've become invisible.
You had politics.
You had a career.
You had interests.
You had a sex life.
Now you have the daily needs of a completely dependent person, and your world has shrunk.
The fact that these men and the young women that cheer them on think this is so laughable
reflects society's disdain for mothers.
This is what it means to say a woman is not a feeling or a costume.
This is why the hub of the resistance is on mom's net.
So I am fascinated by this thread.
I think it's one of the most revealing texts in gender-critical history.
Because you know what, Maya Forstetter actually does have valid concerns.
But the concerns she has that are valid have nothing to do with trans people.
And they definitely have nothing to do with an adorable cartoon alien.
Honestly, reading this, I have some concerns.
Concerns like, where is Maya's husband?
I know she has one.
Isn't raising children supposed to be a mutual project?
No one should have to feel this alone raising children.
That is a valid concern.
Oh my god, we actually found one.
It's like finding El Dorado.
A valid concern.
A valid concern.
Isn't what's going on here that Maya is taking legitimate feelings of being overburdened
and underappreciated and displacing those feelings onto transgender people?
This is exactly how the gender-critical movement recruits.
By providing a scapegoat to frustrated women.
It's not your husband's neglect.
It's not the increasing atomization of society.
It's not the indignities of aging.
It's Tala, the non-binary alien with its dungarees and smug aura of gender neutrality.
Mum's net is the hub of the resistance to non-binary cartoons.
It's too much.
These people are too much.
Okay, we have to be serious now.
The political right also promises women safety and security.
For women, the world is a very dangerous place.
The right acknowledges the reality of danger, the validity of fear.
The right then manipulates the fear.
Women fear and resent male violence, which they're most likely to experience from the
men closest to them, boyfriends, husbands, and fathers.
They're most likely to be killed by sexual partners.
But the need to survive in a male-dominated society means that women's legitimate fears
and resentments often cannot be directed at the men with power.
Inevitably, this causes women to take the rage and contempt they feel for the men who
actually abuse them, those close to them, and project it onto others.
Those far away, foreign, or different.
And this displacement of rage is just transparently what's going on with JK Rowling.
In her essay about sex and gender issues, Rowling speculates that trans men are transitioning
to be the son her father wanted.
I really felt the rejection of my father.
And that is one of the things that maybe lead someone going into homosexuality.
And she describes the lingering trauma from her first violent marriage.
The marriage at this point has turned very violent and very controlling.
And that, she says, is why she decided to speak out against the transgender movement.
If you try to understand this rationally, it looks like a total non sequitur.
But if you look at it emotionally, there's a kind of logic to it.
The existence of the dangerous outsider always functions for women simultaneously as deception,
diversion, painkiller, and threat.
Women cling to irrational hatreds focused particularly on the unfamiliar, so that they
will not murder their fathers, husbands, sons, brothers, lovers.
The men with whom they are intimate, those who do hurt them.
In the 1970s, many conservative women displaced this rage onto lesbians, the threatening outsider
of the day.
Dworkin attended the National Women's Conference in 1977, where she spoke to a lot of women
about their fear of lesbians.
Right-wing women consistently spoke to me about lesbians as if lesbians were rapists,
certified committers of sexual assault against women and girls.
To them, the lesbian was inherently monstrous, experienced almost as a demonic sexual force
hovering closer and closer.
She was the dangerous intruder, encroaching, threatening by her very presence a sexual
order that cannot bear scrutiny or withstand challenge.
It's almost surreal to read this because of how precisely it describes how gender
criticals talk about trans women.
Pronouns are like Rohypnal.
They dull your defenses.
They change your inhibitions.
They're meant to.
Now it's true that trans-exclusionary radical feminism began as an offshoot of far-left
lesbian separatism, with academic feminist Janice Raymond writing in 1979 that transsexualism
should be morally mandated out of existence.
But the gender critical movement was always destined to become a right-wing movement because
it has the structure of a right-wing movement, taking women's fear and rage toward familiar
men and displacing it onto an unfamiliar outsider.
The momentum behind this is just to ripe an opportunity for conservatives to pass up.
As Dworkin says,
Because women so displaced their rage, they are easily controlled and manipulated haters.
Women require symbols of danger that justify their fear.
The right provides these symbols of danger by designating clearly defined groups of outsiders
as sources of danger.
In the 2020s, anti-trans bigotry has become a keystone of conservative party platforms,
both in the UK, where Lee Anderson, deputy chair of the conservative party, predicts
that the next election will be won on
Probably a mixture of culture wars and trans debates.
And in the US, where the ACLU is currently tracking more than 450 anti-LGBT bills, including
more than 130 gender-affirming care bans, 51 trans sports bans, 40 drag bans, 29 trans
bathroom bans, and 21 bans defining trans people out of the law, Republicans have escalated
anti-trans rhetoric to eliminationist extremes that have most trans people in this country
living in a constant state of fear for our future.
Transgenderism must be eradicated from public life entirely.
The Left is attacking our children, pushing sex talk, transgender extremism, and noxious
politics in our schools.
We should reject this demonic assault on the innocence of our children and stand fast against
leftist efforts to mutilate their bodies and minds.
Stop confusing our babies with your groomer gender ideologue.
I will revoke every Biden policy promoting the chemical castration and sexual mutilization
of our youth, and ask Congress to send me a bill prohibiting child sexual mutilation
in all 50 states.
On day one, I will revoke Joe Biden's cruel policies on so-called gender-affirming care.
Ridiculous.
I will sign a new executive order instructing every federal agency to cease all programs
that promote the concept of sex and gender transition at any age.
A few gender criticals still want to insist they have nothing to do with right-wing anti-trans
bigots.
Like Helen Lewis.
Helen Turf is basically witch who attempts in her interview in the witch trials of J.K.
Rowling to distinguish between the transphobia of the far right and that of feminists.
I think the hardest thing for outsiders to understand is that there are two different
arguments going on.
One is the traditional conservative right argument, which is anti-LGBT.
The other one is a criticism from the Left in which it says sometimes male people and
female people have different interests, no matter how the male people identify.
But as a trans person, I don't care whether you justify your transphobia in the name of
protecting women or protecting children.
Whether it's radical feminist Janice Raymond calling for transsexualism to be morally mandated
out of existence, or conservative Catholic Michael Knowles calling for transgenderism
to be eradicated from public life, it's the same repulsive bigotry to me.
And in any case, the gender-critical movement has recently reached an implicit consensus
that they're mostly done pretending to be feminist.
The rising star of the movement, Posey Parker aka Kelly J. Keene Minchel, rejects feminism
entirely.
Do you call yourself a feminist now?
No.
Did you ever call yourself a feminist?
I probably did for a short time.
But so you wouldn't be so like a Julie Bindle type feminist?
No, well some feminists, I mean Julie Bindle has been critical of mothers in the past and
I think that's a theme flowing through feminism.
I'm not a feminist!
I'm not a feminist!
This is not Andrea Dworkin.
This is Phyllis Schlafly.
Parker's campaign is currently funded by the right-wing CPAC.
CPAC came along and said that they would sponsor our events and cover all of our insurance
throughout our whole trip, which is really kind of them.
But what we would need to do is we would need to show that we were working for them, working
with them.
She has no qualms about collaborating with far-right white nationalists.
I want to talk about Marjorie Taylor Greene.
Let me tell you what she's been saying.
She's a Republican, but I agree with her wholeheartedly.
She's opposed abortion and contraception for teenagers.
Why are we enabling children to take sometimes contraceptives that are quite harmful or access
to abortion?
I think that we really need to rethink all of this.
I think parents need to take back control of their children.
She's called trans people fools and perverts.
Transgenderism is nuts.
It's for fools and perverts.
She's denied that transgender is a legitimate concept.
It's not a real thing.
There's no such thing as being born in the wrong body.
There's no such thing as a trans woman.
There's no such thing as a trans person.
There is no such thing.
There are people that call themselves these things that may have other issues manifesting
that then make them think they're this, but no.
We have to stop using any words like transgender.
There may be more words that we have to say in order to say that.
We may call it transgender ideology, but when it comes to a person, they may be following
transgender ideology, but they are not transgender.
There is no such thing as a man or a woman being anything other than a man or a woman.
She's called trans women pedophiles.
We know that if a man has a paraphilia addressing as a woman, the most likely cross paraphilia
is pedophilia.
We know that these men have multiple paraphilias.
They don't ever stop at one.
She's said that each and every woman who stands in her way will be annihilated.
Each and every one of you women who stand in my way, each and every one of you, let me
just tell you, you will be annihilated.
She's called on armed men to enter women's restrooms to attack anyone they perceive as
not a real woman.
And men, for once, I'm talking to you.
I'm talking about you dads who maybe carry, I think that's what you say.
I'm so down with the American lingo.
Maybe you carry, maybe you don't.
Maybe you consider yourself a protector of women.
Maybe you're that sort of man.
Maybe you have a daughter or a mother or a wife.
Maybe you have a sister.
Maybe you just have some friends.
Maybe you just think women are human and you don't need any absolute connection with them
to feel compelled to protect us.
I think you should start using women's toilets, men.
And she's said that women who call themselves men should be sterilized, which seems to be
a little bit in tension with JK Rowling's concern about the fertility of confused girls.
You know, you might look at these differences of opinion between Rowling and Parker.
Little things like pro-feminist versus anti-feminist, left versus right, pro-abortion versus anti-abortion.
Concern about trans men's fertility versus advocating forced sterilization of trans men
against annihilating women who stand in your way versus pro-annihilating each and every
woman who stands in your way.
You might look at these differences and expect that these two women would be at odds, but
they aren't.
Because promoting anti-trans bigotry is a common cause that for both of them trumps
all else.
In 2020, Posey Parker paid for a poster reading I Heart JK Rowling to be displayed at a railway
station in Edinburgh, and Rowling has tweeted in defense of Parker numerous times and has
modeled her t-shirts.
So the gender-critical movement, started by lesbian separatists in the 1970s, has finally
passed into the hands of pound shop Ava Browns, as gender-critical lesbian Julie Bendel memorably
described them.
It's a movement that has no beliefs apart from a shared determination to reduce the
number of trans people.
In the numbers we're currently seeing, particularly of young people coming forward, I find cause
for doubt.
In the meantime, while we're trying to get through to the decision-makers, we have to
try to limit the harm.
And that means reducing or keeping down the number of people who transition.
And that's for two reasons.
One of them is that every one of those people is a person who's been damaged.
But the second one is every one of those people is basically, you know, a huge problem to
a sane world.
Like if you've got people that, whether they're transitioned, whether they're happily transitioned,
whether they're unhappily transitioned, whether they've detransitioned, if you've got people
who've dissociated from their sex in some way, every one of those people is someone
who needs special accommodation in a sane world where we re-acknowledge the truth of
sex.
So to wrap this up, is the backlash against JK Rowling a witch hunt?
Unequivocally, no, it's very thoroughly deserved.
But I will say this, a movement can't get along without a devil.
And across the whole political spectrum, there is a misogynistic tendency to choose a female
devil, whether it's Anita Bryant, Hillary Clinton, Marie Antoinette, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,
or JK Rowling.
And there's always going to be people who seize on any opportunity to be misogynistic.
So I would advise trans people and our allies to keep in mind that JK Rowling is not the
final boss of transphobia, she's not our devil.
The devil is the Republican party, the conservative party.
The devil is patriarchy, it's the right-wing men who will be the ones to put gender-critical
theory into brutal practice.
Anita Bryant, Posey Parker, and JK Rowling are, to borrow a term from TERFs, handmaidens.
TERFs are the real handmaidens.
They're useful idiots who put a concerned female face on the patriarchal violence against
trans people that will ultimately be enacted by right-wing men.
I call on men to consider themselves dear to human beings, to call out the demons among
them and eradicate these monsters from society.
And Megan Phillips Roper and centrist Slaker are wrong that civil conversation can resolve
this.
Call out the demons among them and eradicate these monsters from society.
People like Michael Knowles and Ron DeSantis and Donald Trump cannot be persuaded.
They have to be defeated.
As for what to do about JK Rowling, honestly, let's all just block her.
Open up Twitter right now, go to her profile, and just block her.
Problem solved.
Like, don't harass her, that doesn't help.
But also, I wouldn't wait for her to change.
She's gone down what I call the bigotry whirlpool.
The deeper you go in, the harder it is to leave, for the same reasons that it's hard
to quit a culture scam.
To quote video essayist Dan Olson,
One of the most insidious elements of a confidence scam is that the victims who invested the
most are often the most passionate defenders because shame is a powerful force in the human
psyche and they can't bear the shame of admitting they were tricked.
Reformed bigots have to face not only the shame of being dupes, but also the guilt
of having devoted years of life to harming vulnerable people.
This is something Megan, to her credit, faced head on.
If we were wrong, then I had spent every day of my life industriously sowing doom, discord,
and rage to so many not at the behest of God, but of my grandfather.
I had wasted my life only to fill others with pain and misery.
Most bigots cannot stand to face this moral sunk cost.
It's why an obsessive bigot like Graham Linahan, whose all-consuming hatred of trans people
has ruined his life, caused him his marriage, and left him alone to tweet about destroying
gender ideology minutes before midnight on New Year's Eve, feels psychologically compelled
to insist with ever more certainty that trans people are not just delusional or dangerous,
but are all demonic perverts, an enemy so hyperbolically evil that they justify his
self-immolating crusade.
As long as he stays here, in the bottom of the
whirlpool, he never has to face that he's ruined his relationships and wasted years
of life because he just couldn't let it go.
And if J.K.
Rowling doesn't log off soon, this will likely be her fate as well.
I guess what I'm really trying to say is, Harry Potter is dead to me.
I'm switching to Twilight.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
Harry Potter is dead to me.
At least it's a fruit pie.
