...
...
One, hello darkness, hello children, it is I, the darkness within.
So you know how life is like kind of bad?
Well what are you going to do about that?
I mean there's a few things you can do.
First you could work to improve yourself and make the world a better place.
That's probably the most effective approach eventually but the problem is that it's hard
and I don't like things that are hard because when you do things that are hard you have
to feel bad now so that you can feel good later and I don't want to feel good later.
I want to feel good now and if you want to feel good now well you have a couple options.
The first is of course to do drugs and I've tried that I spent most of my 20s on the threshold
of alcoholism but it turns out that's not a cute look for me it's not my vibe so what
I do now when I feel the darkness coming is what any respectable woman would do.
I take a Xanax and lie on the floor for a couple hours.
Is it a pee under my mattress your majesty or is it another Xanax I left under the throat
rug?
Now the problem with doing drugs is that when the drugs wear off you feel bad again.
In fact you probably feel worse.
So where do we go from here?
Well how about music?
When you feel bad you want to listen to sad music because sad music makes you cry.
And crying feels good.
It's like an orgasm for sad people.
And why settle for less than the official meme song of sadness?
The sound of silence by Simon and Garfunkel.
You know.
I'm pretty sure there's another Xanax under this throat rug.
Hello darkness my old friend.
But in the memes you only hear the first 10 seconds of the song.
You only hear hello darkness my old friend.
And that's a very sad first 10 seconds of a song which is good because if you're making
songs for sad people it's important to establish your sadness cred up front.
Because sad people don't like happy songs.
When you're sad happy songs make you feel like you're being bullshitted.
There were 10 seconds into the song, hello darkness my old friend, the key is D sharp
minor.
The saddest of all keys.
But when we get to the next line, because of vision softly creeping, something happens.
Let's listen.
Come to talk with you again Because of vision softly creeping
Ah!
What was that?
Suddenly a major chord, an unsuspected burst of sunlight through the clouds, and every
peach fuzz hair on the back of my biologically female Nax stands on end.
Hello light.
So the song has enticed me with its promise of company for misery and then it has tricked
me into feeling good.
And that's what I like about art.
It takes the standard disappointments and humiliations of life and cooks them into something
worth getting off the floor for.
Unfortunately I don't really play music much anymore because my hands are too beautiful
for instruments and my singing voice sounds like a man.
So all I really have left is what any aspiring artist with no talent turns to.
Comedy.
And I especially like dark comedy.
You know, comedy about the things in life that are the most painful.
To me, Dark Hammer is kind of like a sad song.
It takes your worst feelings, traumas and anxieties and twists them into a source of
pleasure.
Don't all the finest pleasures come from pain?
Ah!
A lot of the time that means joking about topics that an ordinary life are considered
taboo.
You know, sadness, fascism, sexual deviation, cults.
Without the ability to joke and make fun of my own experiences of self-loathing, substance
abuse, gender dysphoria, I mean I'd probably be on the floor right now looking for that
Xanax.
But this puts me in a difficult situation because I want to defend my sense of humor
which I feel is like the core of my personality and what keeps me alive.
But at the same time, I've noticed that a lot of the people in our culture who are really
big on defending provocative, controversial, politically incorrect comedy are kind of um…
dick nuggets?
Let's discuss this.
And by discuss, I mean use it quietly and I'll tell you what to think.
2.
Dick Nuggets
So the year 2016 had just begun and already the most 2016 possible thing was happening.
Ricky Gervais, an irreverent, bad boy, atheist comedian, was ranting on Twitter for days
and days about how stupid it is that people are offended by things.
This is pretty standard for Ricky Gervais, a man whose personal branding screams,
I don't care about your feelings, I know what it's like to be persecuted for my beliefs,
I am too much of a badass rebel to care what minorities think.
But in January 2016, Ricky Gervais was having an extra badass, irreverent, not caring about
your feelings kind of month.
Why?
Because he'd just hosted the Golden Globes and upset a bunch of people by telling jokes
about ol' Tranma, Caitlyn Jenner.
But as I say, I'm gonna be nice tonight, I've changed.
Not as much as Bruce Jenner, obviously.
That's cutting edge material there, Rick.
Very irreverent, very rebellious, very bad boy atheist, ooh.
I mean I do wish he wouldn't deadname trans people on stage, but honestly the joke wasn't
even as transphobic as a lot of the stuff I've come to just expect from comics.
Still, I'm sure Twitter had a thing or two to say about it, and Ricky spent the rest
of the month tweeting about how offending people is good actually, and he definitely
doesn't care that people were offended.
But clearly, Twitter got to him, because two years later, he opened his Netflix special
with a 13 minute bit rehashing the incident, and doing a series of even more, um, irreverent
jokes.
Because I've always identified as a chimp, right?
Well, I am a chimp, if I say I'm a chimp, I am a chimp, pre-op, but um, and don't ever
deadname me, don't ever call me Ricky Gervais again, from now on you call me Bobo.
Does he also identify as an attack helicopter?
Does he realize he is doing a meme from 2014 on stage in a $20 million comedy special?
My issue with this joke is that, apart from being extremely passe and overdone, it also
doesn't make sense unless you ignorantly believe that trans women are delusional men,
and even then, it's just not very funny.
But am I offended by the joke?
Well, I think it's ignorant, misinformed, unoriginal, and not very funny, and as a great
comedian named Ricky Gervais once said, to me, an offensive joke is one that's lame,
badly delivered, and not funny enough.
So by that measure, yes, I'd say this I identify as a chimp bit is pretty offensive.
But I'm not bringing this old controversy up because I'm offended.
I'm bringing it up because it's just an arbitrary example of a cycle it seems like
our culture repeats about once a week.
Somebody makes a joke, some people are offended by the joke, and other people are indignant
about the fact that those people are offended.
The cycle usually gets framed as a battle in a culture war that's supposedly going
on between generation snowflake easily triggered humorless peasy cucks and badass edgy nothing
off limits free speech truth tellers.
Now if this really is a culture war between two sides, then I am a double agent because
I'm a generation snowflake peasy cuck who loves dank edgy memes, and I've found myself
on both sides of this type of conflict many, many times.
So on the one hand, when I see the internet roasting a comedian for some shitty trans
joke, my inner snowflake wants to watch the bastard burn.
But my inner edge lady knows how it feels to be dragged across Twitter over a joke.
And as someone who basically writes jokes about controversial topics for a living, I
appreciate how difficult it is to maintain the mildly sadomasochistic character of comedy
while also keeping your moral compass from getting too jittery.
So what I want to try to do is step away from the heat of these social media battles and
try to abstract from them some more general philosophical questions.
What is the purpose of comedy?
What is it that makes comedy good or bad?
Does good comedy punch up and speak truth to power?
Does it bring light to some aspect of the human condition?
Is it, as Aristotle said, the imitation of worse than average men?
Or is it simply anything anyone laughs at for whatever reason?
Well I don't think there's a single objective answer.
I mean, comedy's pretty subjective.
But we can probably reach some kind of understanding by discussing this, right?
And by we, again, I do mean me.
The rest of you can keep your goddamn mouth shut.
3.
Straw men.
So as a trans woman up here discussing why I don't think Ricky Gervais's trans jokes
are funny, a lot of haters and losers out there are probably going to try to straw
man me.
Did you just assume the straw person's gender?
Since people have like two trans jokes and they're both so bad.
Here's the straw person's assholes.
Straw person one.
You hate free speech and are trying to silence comedians.
I'm not trying to silence anyone.
Comedians can say whatever they want on stage and I can say whatever I want about them.
Straw person two.
You just can't take the heat when the joke's on you.
I transitioned on YouTube making controversial political content all the while and I read
the comments.
My hate-taking capacity is among the highest of all time.
Of course I do not have the internalized self-loathing that has damaged my psyche irreparably, but
sweetie, who doesn't?
Straw person three.
You think no one should be allowed to joke about trans people.
I invented joking about trans people.
Ever heard of the mouth feel?
I'm that tran.
That's right.
If I die tomorrow, my legacy will be that I applied wine tasting terminology to fellatio
and I accept my destiny.
Look, half my job is telling jokes about trans people.
I live for trans jokes.
I just don't think cis people are very good at telling them because they don't know enough
about trans people to know what the funny things are.
And being transgender is honestly the perfect topic for comedy.
Like you used to live as one gender and then you became a different gender.
Every single thing about that is absolutely hilarious.
But humor is in the details.
And Ricky Gervais does not know the details because he's clearly never been close to
a trans person and that's why he's still telling these Tinkertoy 2015 Caitlyn Jenner
jokes.
And it's too bad.
Because I'm actually starving over here for good trans comedy, and I mean the real dark
stuff too.
I'm not talking about trans Rachel on the timeline calling her hormones titty skittles.
No, I like the edgy stuff.
I like being on the edge.
Hi, my name is Natalie Nguyen, and I enjoy edging.
Now, there is one recent work of trans comedy that I'd like to share with you because
when you're doing art criticism it helps to have positive as well as negative examples.
And the exemplary work I have in mind is one not a lot of people are talking about yet
but which I have no qualms placing in the same company as the works of Dante or Swift.
I am of course referring to My Sperm Bank Experience by Gigi Gorgias.
If you don't know who Gigi is, first of all who even are you, do you have no respect
for legends?
She's a trans YouTuber like the trans YouTuber whose classic works such as My Hemorrhoids
and I had sex with a dog long ago cemented her status as a comedy icon.
But in this critic's opinion, the crown jewel of Gigi's oeuvre is without a doubt the
singular masterpiece My Sperm Bank Experience.
Let's do a close reading.
4.
Gigi's Sperm Bank Experience
A great work of literature is never just a text.
It is also what the theorist Jean-Jacques Visage du Poisson would call a moment within
an intertextual dialectic.
Love that.
Let us therefore place My Sperm Bank Experience within its proper context.
Several months earlier Gigi had released a video about how she and her girlfriend were
trying to have a child so far without success and so they went to see a fertility specialist.
Apparently Gigi was not aware that taking feminizing hormones can make you sterile
which girl they tell you like seven times before you start hormones.
Like how?
We'll move past it.
A few months later the notification for My Sperm Bank Experience shows up on my phone
cause that's right I clicked the bell and immediately I knew I was about to experience
something special.
The thumbnail for this video is so much greater than anything I've ever conceived of that
honestly it makes me feel like a failure both as a YouTuber and as a woman.
The sperm donation cup is labeled with Gigi's signature, the eyes are dotted with hearts
and her facial expression.
Ew.
Come.
The video begins with Gigi explaining that in order to produce a sample for the clinic
she had to stop taking hormones for three months.
So I hesitantly agreed I was like fine I will stop all of my hormones so you know my shit
can get juicy again and I can get a good little sample up in here.
The sperm bank day arrives she goes to the clinic and approaches the receptionist.
And I said yes ma'am I am here to give sperm from me to be frozen now.
The doctor arrives and leads her to the exam room which she describes with the precision
of mama Flaubert.
I walk into this room fluorescent lighting the house.
I was like I can see every pore in my arm like Jesus what do they want me to do here?
And then the kicker this like leather couch the back is kind of like angled so I guess
like you can lean and really get into it or something.
The doctor offers her lubrication pornography if needed and a donation cup Gigi closes the
door and gets to work.
I get in the mood I get in the zone and I'm killing it bitch I am like I'm going to give
the best sample ever my kid is going to be a godsend child before I know it the moment
has crept up on me it happened and it's been so long that it hits the wall behind me.
And it's at this moment that glam goddess Gigi Gorgias gets up off the leather couch
and attempts to scrape a prodigious quantity of Gigi Gism off the wall of a fluorescent
lit exam room in a desperate final bid to become a mother.
And I took the cup and I was like full on like scraping it off the wall because I was
like I'm not going to let any little drop go to waste you know I'm here this is like
my moment.
I'm trying to understand why this video makes me laugh so much it's really the contrast
of style and substance like it wouldn't be funny if a masculine person told this story
It's funny because Gigi has this peak feminine storytelling style and this real housewives
diction but the story itself is about blasting a giant load onto a wall of a room full of
leather and pornography.
The dissonance between form and content is genius and that dissonance perfectly captures
the absurdity of being transgender with a comedic incisiveness that Ricky Gervais could
only dream of.
I also really relate to this story because right before I started Hormones I decided
to freeze a sample of my own so I too have a sperm bank experience.
And it was exactly like Gigi describes down to every detail.
It is not a dignified moment ladies there is just no way to feel like a woman while
you're hastily rubbing one out in an over lit room designed for men to ejaculate in.
I feel so fish right now.
For this five minutes in the exam room I was a man.
Now I somehow managed to get most of my sample into the cup but there's a different absurd
detail to my story.
The receptionist at the sperm bank saw on my paperwork that I was depositing because
I was going to start feminizing hormones and he asked me if there was a name I preferred
he called me.
In retrospect he was actually really sweet and really cute.
Not that anything was going to come of that at the time since I was pretty everything
and rough around the edges.
To be honest I was all edges but he asked me for my preferred name and I just blurted
out Natalie.
And so this was actually the first time anyone ever called me by my biological name and it
went like this.
The receptionist at the sperm bank turned to me and said right this way Natalie here's
a cup for you to bust a nut in.
And that's how my life as a woman began.
Now in the end Gigi's story is actually pretty tragic.
Her sample wasn't usable.
She wanted to have a child with her own DNA but she's been on hormones too long and she
just can't.
And that revelation at the end of the video kind of recontextualizes how you see the whole
story.
In the ridiculous image of Gigi scraping a jackalit off the wall I now see this primal
maternal urge to produce and protect children.
I see a mother bird whose chicks have fallen prematurely from the nest.
I see the virgin Mary cradling her child.
I really really thought that I was going to have a good sample and I was going to be able
to participate in having a baby with my DNA but it's just not in the cards for me.
And I really wanted to make this video more positive and funny because there is nothing
I can do.
And that's exactly it.
That is the darkness.
5.
The darkness.
The darkness is my name for what I consider the highest form of comedy where you take
your own worst feelings, traumas and anxieties and twist them into a source of pleasure.
The darkness is Richard Pryor running down the street in flames because he set himself
on fire in a coke field psychosis.
The darkness is Gigi gorgeous scraping her own prodigious jism off the wall of an exam
room in a desperate bid to save her chance at motherhood.
If you can make these low points funny then you're going to be okay.
You're going to survive.
You're going to make it through life.
And I need that now more than ever because trans experience is, in a lot of ways, pretty
dark.
But trans people make it through because we're good humored and strong as fuck.
Pretty soon I'm going to have to stop hormones before an operation and I'm terrified of
that.
What's going to happen to me when I stop hormones?
Am I going to become a man again?
Because I don't know if I can handle that.
I am thinking about names though like maybe Nathan or Jaden.
I can see myself as a Jaden.
See I've got to have my little jokey jokes or I don't think I can make it through this.
Like when I have bottom surgery I am absolutely going to constantly refer to it as my sex
change operation because it makes me laugh.
It brings me joy.
Calling it gender confirmation surgery brings me no joy.
Now it's important to notice that just because it doesn't make me laugh doesn't mean it's
a politically correct euphemism.
Gender confirmation is a more accurate term than sex change because you're literally
not changing your sex.
That's not what surgery does.
But edgy people have their own kind of political correctness where they mistake edginess for
honesty, accuracy, and directness but these are very different things.
For example, George Carlin has a classic bit about euphemisms that has some great moments
but also some moments that are way off base.
For example, content warning ableist slur.
They say they're going to preboard those passengers in need of special assistance.
So look, I understand the aesthetic preference for simple, honest, direct language and the
repulsion toward verbose bureaucratic jargon.
That's why so much of the rest of this bit is so good.
But the word he just used is literally a slur so I wonder if what you're being honest
about is your feelings toward disabled people.
Because the phrase passengers in need of special assistance is a little wordy sure but in this
situation it's actually more accurate since it also includes the elderly, the pregnant,
anyone in need of assistance boarding.
So I call my gender confirmation surgery getting a sex change not because it's more direct
and honest but specifically because it's inaccurate and outdated and that makes me laugh.
Not because I'm a fearless truth teller but because I'm a bad person.
And I get to call it my sex change operation but cis people don't get to call it that
because it's my darkness not yours.
Get your own darkness.
When Ricky Gervais jokes about trans people he's being a hack because he knows nothing
of our darkness.
And when someone tries to joke about something that they're totally ignorant of the result
is usually clumsy, awkward and not very funny.
What I'd really like to see is if Ricky Gervais took all of that irreverent bad boy derisiveness
and turned it within.
Because within is where the darkness lies.
6.
Self-deprecation Self-deprecating humor is my personal favorite
because as a lazy, selfish, preening, attention whore who looks like a slightly more passable
and culture with the voice of a tropical bird there is a lot of material here to work with.
But especially when it comes to the trans jokes there is a faction of the trans community
that is not amused by the buffoonery that goes on on this channel.
I think the objection to it is best summed up by the comic Hannah Gatsby who in her stand-up
special Nanette said that when self-deprecation comes from someone who exists in the margins
it's not humility, it's humiliation.
And to be honest I felt a little called out by that.
I put myself down in order to speak, in order to seek permission to speak.
And she's not wrong like that is how this works.
In order to gain an audience as a trans person you have to demonstrate what cis people call
self-awareness.
That is, you have to signal that you see yourself the way the audience sees you, which can mean
looking at yourself with a pretty merciless gaze.
And of course I'm happy to do that because I have no self-respect and laughter is the
only way to numb the pain.
But the terrible thing about being a not-normal with an audience is that you don't just get
to be yourself because whether you like it or not people will see you as a representative
of the community.
So because of that responsibility which I never asked for I have to balance out the
self-deprecation with a lot of positive messaging about my people.
And that way the dark jokes function as a spoonful of sugar to help the feminine penis
go down.
But even without the group representation issue it definitely is possible to take self-deprecation
too far.
As I've said I have been diagnosed with an incurable edginess of temperament and I sometimes
do feel suffocated by the safe space rules of a lot of trans spaces even though those
spaces are there for good reason and a lot of people need them.
But sometimes this atmosphere of everything and everyone is valid all the time, no uncomfortable
questions may be asked, any self-deprecation is a sign of traumatic internalized bigotry,
I just need to get out of there for a while and find a place where I can relax and be
my edgy self.
I need a safe space for my edginess where I can just blurt out whatever stupid question
or joke comes to mind without being afraid that I'm going to inflict horrible trauma
on everyone around me.
So I call up another transsexual edgelady, you know, Kiki, accuse each other of being
cross-dressers and just laugh it all off.
And it's so so cathartic to do that but it does have to be done in moderation because
there can come a point where you're picking at the wound instead of numbing it.
And it mostly has to be done in private because in public you have to worry about how cis
people will interpret it and so you have to find a way to be self-deprecating without
abandoning all social responsibility.
Ugh, if there was ever a phrase that instantly deadens all laughter, it's social responsibility.
But since it's kind of the central topic of the comedy culture war, I should probably
say something about it, even though, believe me, I'd much rather go back to jabbering
about my sex change.
7.
The eternal tension.
So what is a comedian's job?
What is a comedian supposed to do?
I suppose my ideal comedian is one who is perfectly able to balance the tension between
shitposting and snowflakery.
And this is an eternal tension and must never be resolved.
It is a tightrope I have devoted my life to walking.
See, if the tension collapses into pure snowflakery, you get a moralist who might say that a comedian's
purpose is to promote justice by punching up, by speaking truth to power, by exposing
the flaws of bigoted mindsets, and so on.
And these are all very admirable goals but they leave out what I think is the essential
purpose of comedy, which is to be funny, to surprise, to shock, to make people laugh.
It's kind of like how some art and media critics only ever evaluate a work based on
whether or not it's socially progressive and don't seem to really think about aesthetic
pleasure very much, which, to me, is the reason why art exists in the first place.
But then again, I am a hedonistic bourgeois decadent and should probably be sent to the
guillotine at once.
Just let me do my makeup first so that when they hold my head up, everyone can see my
beat and their wings all fly to the Bastille.
Also, someone please post the video to my Instagram because that's gonna get a lot
of engagement.
So the opposite of the pure snowflake is the pure shit poster, who might say that a comedian's
purpose is to make an audience laugh by any means necessary.
But that seems kind of barbaric since, like, if a guard at a prison camp is torturing an
inmate and the other guards are laughing, does that count as comedy?
Is a war crime funny?
Well, according to the Geneva Convention, it's hilarious.
The thing is, I don't think many comedians actually believe in a completely nihilistic
vision of comedy.
I think they sometimes pretend to when they're trying to evade criticism.
I mean, take even the edgiest of white guy comics and listen to the way they talk about
their heroes, Lenny Bruce or George Carlin.
There's always an element of admiration for bravery, risk, subversion, truth telling.
In other words, there's a concern there for what is virtuous and what is true, not
just for what makes people laugh.
So maybe, before we can even talk about what's funny, we have to have a level of shared agreement
about what is true and what is morally right.
My objection to Ricky Gervais's trans jokes is not just that they're not funny.
I think he's wrong about trans people, and I think his ignorance is infectious.
I think he's stirring up bigoted sentiments in his audience, which has the consequence
of making the world slightly scarier for people like me.
And this is edginess at its worst.
Just a privileged person with a platform punching down at a politically besieged group he understands
nothing about.
And that's what happens when the snowflake shitpost tension collapses into pure shitposting.
It's boring and immature, like when someone says he wants to watch the world burn.
You only get to watch when you have the privilege of not being on fire.
It's edgy, but it's not the darkness.
The darkness is finding a way to laugh about being on fire.
Edginess is always adolescent.
The darkness is edginess, aged by time and pain.
And it's only at that full maturity that comedy becomes art, that it becomes comparable to
music.
So, those are my thoughts.
Like comment and subscribe.
The end.
And I'll sing the song.
I wish my brother George was here.
Hello darkness, my old friend, I've come to talk with you again, because a vision softly
creeping, left its seeds while I was sleeping.
And the vision that was planted in my brain, still remains within the sound of silence.
In restless dreams I walked alone.
Narrow streets of cobblestone, beneath the halo of a street lamp, I turned my collar
to the cold and damp.
When my eyes were stopped by the flash of a neon light, I split the night and touched
the sound of silence.
And in the naked light I saw ten thousand people, maybe more.
People talking without speaking.
People hearing without listening.
People writing songs that voices never share.
No one dared disturb the sound of silence.
Stay gorgeous.
