Let me first get something out of the way. This video is not going to be a takedown or
demolition of Dave Rubin. Ideally, Dave Rubin could watch this video himself and understand
a carefully constructed critique when he sees it. But in the land of the internet,
that might be asking for far too much.
Dave Rubin began his career as a bushy-tailed comedian performing in New York City. His early
career had him immediately touching on the world of political comedy when he interned
at The Daily Show. Rubin displayed some affinity towards creating his own platforms by starting
The Anti-Show, a short-lived comedy program filmed at NBC Studios that aired on Manhattan
Neighborhood Network in the fall of 2001. It was basically a daily show rip-off that
never really got off the ground. Speaking of not getting off the ground, Rubin also started two
different comedy clubs in New York City in the mid-2000s. The first, Joe Franklin's Comedy Club,
closed some time after 2009. I couldn't quite find the exact date on that one. And the second
club, I couldn't really find any information at all. The comedy company closed down, but its
former address is now occupied by a TGI Friday's, so at least it went out with a laugh. Rubin went
on to start several podcasts including Hot Gay Comics and The Ben and Dave Show, both of which
ended up being TV shows on the Here Network. But it was Rubin's The Six Pack, which was eventually
picked up by Sirius, that became a big hit. Rubin gave up the podcasting world and eventually moved
to Los Angeles where he began working at the progressive YouTube channel The Young Turks,
and so the Rubin Report was born. However, this was a far cry from the show we know of today.
It consisted of short clips touching on news stories of the day with Rubin's brand of humor thrown in.
Rubin also made the occasional appearance on cable news programs such as The O'Reilly Factor.
Here he is briefly commenting on what would later be a major cause for him. On the base of this,
I believe in free speech and I believe that Dan Cathy is welcome to say what he wants. And I
believe that the gay community at the same point is welcome to say what they want. Rubin eventually
broke with The Young Turks during what he would later refer to as his awakening. It began in
October of 2014 when Rubin saw the infamous confrontation between Sam Harris and Batman
on Real Time with Bill Maher, where some noise was made after Sam Harris called Islam,
some heated words were exchanged, and a wide-eyed Dave Rubin was sent on a voyage of self-discovery.
It was a voyage that he was on with a lot of other people who were regular viewers of
Rubin's current employer, The Young Turks. Shortly after the real-time confrontation,
Sam Harris sat down with Cenk Uygur of The Young Turks for a three-hour discussion. Although the
discussion was less a debate and more an exercise in masochism, Rubin, and many of the viewers,
felt some affinity with Harris's exasperation with the left. Rubin felt that exasperation so
strongly that he decided to break from The Young Turks and immediately take the Rubin report into
his own hands. And by immediately into his own hands, I mean taking a job with Riot five months
later. Although recently, most of TYT's audience tends to generally enjoy the content they put out,
there was a period around 2014 and 2015 where whenever there was any mention of Islam or a few
other hot-button topics in one of their videos, there would be an intense negative reaction.
Here's an illustrative comment. A significant segment of TYT's audience had strongly held
beliefs about Islam, feminism, and race, and they strongly disagreed with TYT's coverage of those
issues. This resentment towards discussion centered on identity politics was creating
a growing sense of outrage from those who thought the accusations of racism and sexism were getting
out of hand. This anger was coalescing into a general anti-left sentiment and can be seen in
comments like the ones on screen. The mere mention of terms like racism and sexism were enough to
trigger an outrage. While I don't speak to the personal motivations of those who share this anger,
it is one that can be found quite easily throughout YouTube, particularly in circles that disseminate
videos in which there is much gnashing of teeth about the SJW menace.
Ruben's YouTube career up to this point had mostly been mixed. His videos while working
under the Young Turks varied widely in their results. Some struggled to crack 10,000 viewers
while others reached millions. His time at Riot gave him some consistency but in the wrong
direction, with most videos struggling to break that 10,000 view barrier. Much of the content of
this time followed Ruben's earlier formula of commenting on News of the Day. Yes robots are
coming to destroy this and that's why I do it so that years from now on a cracked tv screen in a
room after the robotic overtake you'll see this and people go oh he knew what he was saying. But
being his own version of what a channel like TOIT was already doing wasn't cutting it so Ruben made
another change. Ruben's time with Riot came to an end when Ruben made the move to Larry King's Aura
TV in September of 2015. With this came a format change from brief commentary clips to long
one-on-one interviews. Ruben's first major interview just happened to be with the man who
inspired his awakening Sam Harris. The Ruben report we know of today was born during that
interview with Harris as Ruben not only found a format he enjoyed but he also found a particular
audience. One that would shape his show in the years to come. Ruben began his new format by
immediately addressing his audience with a series of rules. You can see them on screen and by and
large they're pretty straightforward for a left-leaning YouTube personality. I say left-leaning
because that's how Ruben describes himself at this point. Is seeing my side the people on the left
cherry picking facts stifling debate and labeling everyone they disagree with a racist, a bigot,
a homophobe or worse. From here we can see Ruben had some ideas of how his show was going to go
down. He was presenting himself not just as a person on the left though but rather someone
disaffected with the left. By choosing Sam Harris as his first interview subject he was courting the
same faction on the left that's dissatisfied with the content on channels like the Young Turks
particularly its commentary on social issues. One of the big promises early on in the Ruben report
was to speak with people from across the political spectrum. Ruben wanted to prove his
earnestness in exploring ideas by inviting a wide range of opinions and this is evidenced by many
of his earliest guests including the likes of Don Lemon, Larry Elder, Jimmy Dore and Douglas Murray.
But it was one guest in particular that really resonated with Ruben's new audience and that was
Milo Yiannopoulos. For those who may not remember Milo Yiannopoulos was a writer for the right-wing
media outlet Breitbart and he shot to fame championing the Gamergate controversy. After
outraging activists on the left for a few years he fell from grace after some old comments of him
came out that sound an awful lot like him defending pedophilia. Now he sells dick pills on crackpot
outlet InfoWars. While the Harris interview did well a few months earlier ratcheting up nearly
one million views at the time of writing this it was several small clips with the
Yiannopoulos that really excited the viewership of Ruben's channel. All three of these videos did
extremely well with the combined total of nearly five million views and leading to a spike in
subscriptions and views for Ruben's channel in October of 2015. I need to talk about Dave Ruben's
interview style for a moment. Ruben describes his own style in one of his early videos. I talked to
Mike Huckabee's campaign manager about gay marriage and she basically just danced around it.
Had I pushed her to the breaking point I probably would have never gotten access to her again
and then word would have traveled fast that I'm someone that they shouldn't talk to. So with that
in mind I tried my best to navigate all the interviews with some basic questions and then
some deeper probing. And this will be a theme in many of his interviews in the future. His approach
is so gentle so concerned with offending his guest that he would sooner let his guests walk
all over him and use his show as a convenient platform rather than strongly counter their
arguments. And that's precisely what Milo Yiannopoulos did. In 2015, Yiannopoulos was a darling
of the alt-right and gamergate crowds and the gentle interview Ruben had with him pleased
Yiannopoulos's fans so much that many of them decided to stick around. While some might argue
the interview helped put Yiannopoulos on the map, I would sooner say that it helped put the new
Ruben report on the map with a particular audience. Ruben had the audience of disaffected leftists
but Yiannopoulos brought with him a bunch of people from the extreme right who came to see someone on
the left play second banana to their idol. It wouldn't be the last time Ruben found himself
in this position. It should also be noted that Yiannopoulos was a guest that was recommended to
Ruben by his audience beforehand and as already evidenced, the disaffected left that was Ruben's
new base enjoyed hearing the likes of Yiannopoulos complain about the SJWs. Ruben's initial audience
were curious about this anti-left rhetoric coming from the right and while they may have seen
themselves as either on the left or center, they were willing to put any disagreements on hold to
enjoy a good bashing of those on the left they disliked. And in time, the lines between these
audiences would only get blurrier. The booking of Yiannopoulos was a small step in what Ruben was
trying to do with his show. He was hoping to engineer an audience that was not only enjoying
his content but also engaged online. There are numerous examples of Ruben encouraging his viewers
to become more engaged on Twitter and to call out misdeeds wherever they saw them, essentially
turning his audience into a group of online activists that the discussions we're having here
on the show as well as the ones that you guys are having on Twitter and YouTube are actually making
a difference. That's the beauty of the internet. You can get issues to actually bubble up until
mainstream takes notice. There's evidence of the awakening that I've been talking about all over
the place right now. The point of all this is that every week, actually every day that I've been
doing this show, I see this movement getting stronger. You guys are not only connecting with
me but with each other. And now when I see the usual regressives spout off their nonsense,
there's an army of people calling them out on it. That is literally as important as anything that I do.
In return, Ruben took booking suggestions and reading advice from his audience.
He wasn't so much the leader of a movement as he was a part of it.
The next indicator of the state of the Ruben Report audience was its reaction to his interview
with civil rights attorney Areva Martin in January of 2016. To date, it is by far his
least popular interview with the full interview in clipped sections, not getting close to 100,000
views. As an unambiguous voice from the left, the Ruben Report's audience decided Martin's
perspective wasn't a part of the battle of ideas that interested them. Of the few that watched the
Martin interview, the reaction was fierce. A large number of dislikes and comments like this one.
In fact, of all of Ruben's full-length feature interviews, this is the only one where the dislikes
don't number the likes. I don't suspect this is because of Ruben's performance.
Although Ruben trumpeted his platform as a place for voices from across the political spectrum,
it appeared as though the Ruben Report's audience was less interested in voices like Martin and more
interested in voices from the right, like Yiannopoulos. The next few months brought with
it feature interviews with Tommy Robinson, Mike Cernovich, Milo Yiannopoulos, again, and perhaps
most notably, Ben Shapiro. Shapiro, editor for the conservative outlet The Daily Wire,
is a fairly prominent conservative voice who is best known for challenging teenagers on Twitter
and breaking them on the wheel of logic. A little under a year after having him on his show,
Dave Ruben would cite Ben Shapiro, along with earlier guests Sam Harris and Larry Elder,
along with future guest Eric Weinstein, as trusted guides to the world of politics.
Even more telling is that interviews with Harris, Elder, and Shapiro go on to be the most popular
on the channel. Ruben's tastes and his audiences were beginning to align. I want to look at this
comment under the first Shapiro interview from Alex Jones. Wait, that can't be right. Oh, well,
damn, maybe it is Alex Jones, shit. Ruben's style is lauded here as presenting ideas an audience
might not be comfortable with, along with some self-congratulations for being willing to listen
to them. This charity and open-mindedness is something that often accompanies many of the
interviews Ruben has with right-wing guests. The same level of charity never seems to meet the
left-wing guests. They're more likely to meet the fate of Areva Martin, either being ignored or
fiercely disagreed with. The Ruben Report is becoming a place welcoming to voices from the
right while shunning voices from the left. But before leaving season one entirely, there are
two curious direct messages I want to point out first. The real threat of a Donald Trump presidency
and how to stop Trump. Of all of Dave Ruben's direct messages, these two have the worst like
to dislike ratio. Aside from Hillary Clinton is the Democratic presidential nominee from later in
the year. Gee, I wonder why that one got so much hate. The Trump videos feature Dave opining the
divisiveness in politics, and he takes the time to criticize the left for the rise of Trump.
Why he doesn't blame the right for the rise of the progressives is a mystery. In spite of the
name of the video, Ruben only offers a mild criticism of Trump instead falling back on a
common talking point of the time of Trump being some kind of unknowable wildcard. Ruben's advice
to stop Trump is less about what to do to stop him and more about what not to do if you want to
stop him. In other words, his advice for stopping Trump is to admonish the left for behaving badly.
This encapsulates what his channel is often about and what binds the Ruben Report's audience
together. Anger towards the left. Ruben in these videos has demonstrated either consciously or
unconsciously that he knows how to tap into that audience, and that makes all commentary either
explicitly or partially anti-left. Or at this point in the Ruben Report, it would still be considered
anti-regressive. The distinction between regressive and left wouldn't fade until sometime later.
To complete his critical look at Trump, Ruben's guest following these two direct messages were
Mike Cernovich, a Trump operative, and Milo Yiannopoulos. He had famously called Trump his
daddy. This comment from a Dale Gribble alias under how to stop Trump sums up a significant
portion of the Ruben Report's audience. Trump is the anti-left candidate they've all been waiting
for. This was the state of affairs of the Ruben Report heading into the relaunch of the show in
June of 2016. The project had rare fruit for Ruben, and he was getting ready to take it to the next level.
At what can be thought of as season two of the Ruben Report, some major changes happened behind
the scenes. Ruben left Aura TV when they decided to move away from YouTube as a platform for its
videos, and Ruben felt like he needed to be loyal to the audience on YouTube he had helped build.
Ruben moved the show from the Aura Studios to his own home. Now Ruben was faced with the new
challenge. He had to finance the whole thing. Enter every YouTuber's favorite crowdfunding platform,
Patreon. As a side note, the Ruben Report's Patreon was actually started in November of 2015,
over half a year earlier. It only had about a few dozen supporters back then though. It didn't
really pick up any momentum until this season two push in July of 2016 where Ruben asked the
Ruben Report audience to dig deep. And dig deep they did with the number of backers jumping up to
$2,354 and Ruben earning $21,402 a month. The audience who had shaped the Ruben Report had
bought in. Dave Ruben had often equated what he did on the show as being just as important as the
activism of the audience. He lavished them with praise for their activity on social media and
sometimes jumped into the middle of Twitter fights himself. Assuming you haven't had an intense
hypnotherapy session to block this out of your memory, you probably remember there was an election
in the fall of 2016. Shortly after Ruben returned from his break, Hillary Clinton was declared the
nominee for the Democratic Party and this direct message is easily his least popular. It can't
really be compared to any direct message he put together for Trump's nomination though as he
never made one of those. But the comments from the Ruben Report's audience make it quite clear who
they prefer in this upcoming race. To cap it off, Ruben's guest following this direct message was
none other than Clinton critic and felon Dinesh D'Souza. The second DM I want to talk about is
Ruben's discussion of the alt-right. Although he doesn't identify with the group himself,
he largely excuses their actions as antics by ironic Nazis. Ruben is very gentle with his
criticism of the alt-right, noting that while real racist and Nazis exist in their ranks,
what the alt-right really is though is a band of meme posters, anime avatars, and Twitter eggs
vying for attention from people in power. They post Nazi memes, racist pictures, and offensive
tweets with the express intent of getting powerful people to react, respond, and thus
amplify their message. They are keyboard warriors and professional trolls trying to get attention
from the sold out and corrupt media and political elite that we have. Some true racists mixed with
a bunch of people who just want to mess with those in power. How many of each of them are there? We
have no idea. What we do know though is that these people wield very little real world power.
He doesn't see the group as completely despicable, and for good measure he blames Hillary Clinton
for their rise. In this instance though, he doesn't try to take the middle route balancing
right and left. He explicitly says he believes the alt-right is better than the regressive left,
and he believes this to be true because of how he's been informed by the Ruben report audience.
Personally, I think that the regressive left is more of a threat to our democracy than the
alt-right. The regressive left with its tactics of stifling debate and silencing critics
has gained mainstream traction in our media and in our universities. These regressive,
not progressive ideas, have become all too common on the left and they've actually given birth
to the natural response, the alt-right. I know this firsthand not only from the emails that you
guys send me, but also from all the students at UCLA who came up to me after my event with Milo
Yiannopoulos a couple months ago to tell me that they're supporting Trump just because they can't
take the culture of fear around speech anymore. In the eye of this storm still exists some people
in the Ruben report audience who don't share these increasingly anti-left views and no trouble when
they see it. A few comments like these pop up on Ruben's videos expressing dismay and concern,
but they become less common as the months drag on. Ruben gives up on being completely independent
as he announces a partnership with Learn Liberty. Learn Liberty is a project by the Institute for
Humane Studies which is notably funded by billionaire Charles Koch, who is by far its
biggest contributor, having from 1999 to 2014 donated $14,963,318. IHS and by extension
Learn Liberty have been pushing forward a libertarian message across a number of projects
over the years, frequently from a right-wing perspective. Their partnership with the Ruben
report is doing much of the same. Although Dave Rubin, as far as I've been able to discover,
has never gone into the specifics of what his partnership with Learn Liberty entails,
we know at least one part of this deal includes having guests selected by Learn Liberty appear
on the Ruben report. This has, in effect, given Learn Liberty some editorial control over the show.
Much like ceding control to the audience, this is another example of Rubin bargaining away
control over the show that bears his name. Now I don't point this out as a direct criticism,
but would rather refer back to Rubin's stated goals in starting this show. He expressed a desire
to speak to people from across the political spectrum, and he's given significant control
over the booking of his show to his audience, which has a strong anti-left bias, and Learn Liberty,
whose libertarian perspective often put it at odds with the left. If Rubin wants balance on his show,
that is, exploring ideas from across the spectrum, it's at this point he should be wondering where
voices from the left will be coming from. And it's from here that the election kicks into high
gear, and we get a barrage of election-themed content. Rubin's commentary about the election,
as is usual for him, takes the center route, advocating for a nonspecific diversity of voices.
He interviews transhumanist candidate Zoltan Istvan. The audience is less interested in this interview,
or most of the alternative voices that don't support an anti-left stance. The Istvan interview
netted less than 100,000 views across all four clips, whereas, at roughly the same time,
the Rubin reportings lapped up an interview with filmmaker Cassie Jay about her sympathetic look
at men's rights activism. In the interest of presenting some concerns from the Rubin Report
channel, though, regarding its view count, I should point out to this comment where it's
suspected or hypothesized by the Rubin Report that view counts aren't being
accurately reported by YouTube, and people are being unsubscribed from the channel.
This is one of many claims that have come from Dave Rubin over the years about YouTube
interfering with his channel, often based on hearsay or random comments from his audience.
I would love to dive into this YouTube conspiracy, but that will have to be a topic for another day.
Rubin's audience continued to make its feelings clear as the 2016 election continued. In an
interview of October of 2016 with scientist and secular activist Lawrence Krauss, a slightly
unfavorably received section criticizing Trump includes this comment. It illustrates so very
clearly what matters more to the Rubin Report audience, whether Clinton or Trump will be more
sensitive to the concerns of, from their perspective, the SJW menace. That's why they
would sooner watch a video about a female filmmaker being red-pilled over a discussion
of alternative candidates, or even the alternative candidates themselves.
Rubin had on a pro-Clinton guest in Hilary Rosen, and the response from the audience was
predictable. A comment like this, while seeming to represent the thirst for diversity within the
Rubin Report audience, is betrayed by the complete disinterest of the majority of the
actual audience. Much like the voices in the audience asking for more left-leaning guests,
this one is a minority within an increasingly anti-left group. As a brief exception,
with some people on the left, such as David Sirota, the Rubin Report audience can be quite
kind if that person is on to criticize the left. So what matters most is not if the guests are
right or left-wing, but will at least pay lip service to anti-left rhetoric. This all
translates to an audience that was overwhelmingly pro-Trump, a candidate who unabashedly appealed
to the American right, and was seen as taking on those bastards on the left. Well, you know,
from his perspective. After the election of Donald Trump,
Dave Rubin was quick to issue a direct message titled, Don't Freak Out About Donald Trump.
This direct message includes Rubin calling Trump's election.
This was a win for us, right? Because if you think about it, the elite, the media, everybody,
the establishment all wanted one thing to happen. And what happened? The people actually use their
voting power to stop that very thing from happening. That's actually beautiful. I think
he's going to have to govern really from the center. And I think that will be really good
for classical liberals, basic liberal people. I think it'll be really good
for mainstream conservatives. And then maybe the people that are better on the fringes of
all of this thing will so slowly be silenced. That's my suspicion at the moment. And maybe
I have a slight sense of what I'm talking about because I kind of saw this whole thing unfolding
the way it did. Although the prediction has fallen on its face, the win comment in particular
is interesting as it perfectly describes what much of the Rubin report audience celebrates
in Trump. And that's a win against the SJW crowd, who at this point are being conflated with the left
in general. When Dave Rubin describes the Democratic Party as being the identity politics driven
Democratic Party. After nominating Hillary Clinton, a woman who has very little support
in more progressive circles, it shows how anti-regressive has really shifted to just being
anti-left. And it shows how Rubin's perspective has shifted quite a bit to the right.
With Rubin's perspective being informed by his audience, it's safe to assume that they're all
on the same page. This is also the direct message where Rubin infamously mentions holding Trump's
feet to the fire. Yeah, another one that didn't age too well. This direct message also preceded
what would become the Rubin report's highest rated full-length feature interview, Rubin's
discussion with Jordan Peterson. This interview I really only mentioned because it's one of our
earliest instances of Peterson crying over a children's cartoon. Most of your viewers will
have watched Pinocchio. Probably. There's a scene in Pinocchio where Geppetta wishes on a star,
right? And what it means is he lifts up his eyes beyond the horizon to something transcendent,
to something ultimate, because that's what a star is. It's part of the of the eternity of the night
sky. And so he lifts his eyes up above his daily concerns and he says, what I want,
what I want more than anything else is that my creation will become a genuine individual.
A phrase Rubin has been using a lot at this point, referring to people he speaks with is,
whether I agreed with them or not, it doesn't matter whether Rubin agrees with his guests
or not. Rubin's views have become far less important to this discussion and far less important
to this show. The Rubin report has always been a platform for Rubin's guests to deliver their
views without a serious challenge or debate. And when that platform is being heavily influenced
by an anti-left audience and libertarian advocacy group, it's going to privilege certain viewpoints
over others. Although Rubin frequently talks about a new center, and he's been doing this
as early as the end of 2015, having borrowed the phrase from a former guest, Ali Rizvi,
the term really comes into prominence here as he ties it to the Trump presidency and the guests on
his show. If his show is in essence the center, why is it skewing so heavily in favor to guests
from the right? In 2017, big things started happening with the Rubin report. An interview
with conservative commentator Dennis Prager in January did especially well, and it was followed
a few weeks later by Dave Rubin essentially announcing what many had already suspected,
that he was no longer a member of the left. His Why I Left the Left video for PragerU,
which I should mention is not a real university, was widely disseminated,
and as of this writing it's sitting slightly under 6.5 million views. To date, it's one of
the most popular on the PragerU channel, ranking right up there with videos such as
The War on Boys and Don't Follow Your Passion. Really inspiring stuff.
The momentum built through early 2017 with big subscriber and Patreon jumps in the first five
months of the year. The big draws and interviews were former Fox News personality Glenn Beck,
conservative commentator Clary Elder, and failed Canadian asylum seeker Lauren Southern. It was also
when the free speech wars broke out. A time of great suffering and hardship for all.
But perhaps most remembered for its great victories, immortalized by Dave Rubin and his
direct message, huge win in the battle of ideas. In March of 2017, video commentator Colin Moriarty,
who had recently appeared on the Rubin report as a guest, made a hackney joke on Twitter.
In Moriarty's estimation, he was then the victim of a concentrated attack from opportunists in
the gaming press. There's plenty of discussions on this on how accurate that assessment is on the
internet, but the controversy led to Moriarty starting a Patreon that netted him $40,000
a month when it opened, although it's dropped considerably since. Moriarty is only worth
mentioning because of how he relates to the Rubin report. Rubin brought him on for a live
discussion following the tweet, where they answered questions to the tune of Super Chats,
and the Moriarty story led to, according to Rubin himself, a jump of nearly $2,000 a month
in the Rubin report's Patreon support. The direct message declaring the huge win in the battle of
ideas encapsulates much of what makes the Rubin report's audience tick. It's a victory parade
of sorts, where victory is measured in Patreon dollars and Moriarty is championed as a martyr,
although instead of 40 virgins, he got 40 grand in Patreon dollars.
Support for Moriarty is best understood as him being a new hero for the audience.
Much like Rubin, he took a stand against the SJWs, the Left, the Regressives, or whatever
pejorative label that animates the Rubin report audience. And so long as Rubin and people like
Moriarty make similar sounds, the audience is ready to reward them. The next few months,
leading to the end of what Rubin colorfully referred to as Season 2 of the Rubin report,
reintroduced an ambivalence to current affairs outside of stories like the Moriarty one.
While the first half of 2017 wasn't devoid of news stories in the world, Rubin seemed
less curious in holding Trump's feet to the fire and more concerned with stories surrounding Ann
Coulter being deplatformed and Bill Maher using a racial slur. If the first year of the Rubin report
was about finding his audience, the second was about the audience finding its host, as the
anti-left sentiment cemented in Dave Rubin himself and the audience had the conservative-friendly
voice wrapped in a left-wing package they were looking for. In a discussion with Dennis Prager,
it was summed up quite nicely here.
The third season of the Rubin report started in September of 2017 with the fiddently titled
Season 3 of the Rubin report starts now. No mistakes on timing there. In the direct message,
we get more of the usual platitudes Rubin extends to the audience and another appeal to them for
booking suggestions for the new season of the show. The responses are telling.
They range from libertarian poster boy Ron Paul to diluted crackpot poster boy Mark Dice.
One of the few genuine voices from the left recommended is YouTuber and Dark Mother
Disciple ContraPoints, but the reaction by some of the Rubin report's audience demonstrates how
interested they are in voices from the left with a bit of transphobia thrown in for good measure.
But the Rubin report's audience isn't the only thing moving increasingly to the right.
In a direct message covering the NFL players taking a knee, which was a story about protesting
police violence against black men, there was much rage amidst conservatives and it led to Donald
Trump instructing owners to fire the players. Free speech defender Dave Rubin defended the
players' rights while simultaneously defending the owners' right to fire the players. For a man
who has spoken up so extensively about the chilling effect of being called a racist or sexist,
his defense of people literally losing their job while exercising their right to free speech
is a serious break from his usual fawning over the First Amendment. Looking at the comments,
though, it's not the least bit surprising that the Rubin report's audience shares this sentiment,
and it really demonstrates how paper thin their commitment to free speech actually is.
On the week of that taking the knee direct message, Rubin's guess was Candace Owens,
a commentator who operates under the label Red Pill Black. No extra points for guessing
where she came down on the issue of taking the knee, and naturally the Rubin report's audience
was thrilled to hear from her. The last direct message from 2017 I want to mention is from
October, and it discusses the Las Vegas shooting. In contrast to the previous direct message, where
Rubin very much toed the line with his audience, this one took a slightly different tactic. It's
also the fourth least popular direct message on the channel. This direct message includes Rubin
bucking the majority of his audience and advocating for gun control. Of course, in the message,
he equivocates this by speaking at length about mental health, but to discuss gun control at all
is a position the Rubin report audience have little interest in. The comments are universal
in their distaste for gun control, and Rubin's crowdsourcing through the Rubin report audience
for a guest to educate him on gun laws likely have the obvious effect of pushing Rubin further
to the right. This is a microcosm of how the Rubin report works. It starts with a flimsily held
centrist position. Rubin sources guests based on the recommendation from his anti-left crowd.
An inevitable conservative comes to educate Rubin and any outliers in the audience on how to think,
and everyone nodding along with the channel takes another step to the right.
And those right-wing voices make the show a beacon for more right-wing viewers too.
The next time Rubin introduces a topic and states his position, it'll be a little further to the
right. And the next time his audience suggests or reacts to a guest, there will be more voices
from the right-making comments. And the cycle continues, all while the channel keeps racking
up subs and Patreon keeps racking up dollars. In that theoretical model of how the Rubin report
functions, the political leanings of Dave Rubin is one of the least important variables. This is
one thing I think most criticisms of the Rubin report get wrong, or at least get far too hung
up on. Whatever Dave Rubin might call himself doesn't matter as much as the system he oversees.
He can be a classical liberal, a secret conservative, or a clueless progressive,
and it wouldn't matter. The positions of the Rubin report guests and its audience are what
animate this conveyor belt that moves viewers, and Rubin himself, from the left to the right.
It's possible something could disrupt this model, and perhaps an audience can only be pulled so far
to the right before they check out or demand more moderate voices, but I'm not sure the Rubin report
has hit that limit just yet. As I write this in early 2018, very little has changed in the land
of Rubin. Dave Rubin continues to make increasingly right-wing claims, going so far as to say he would
support Donald Trump over Bernie Sanders. If everything basically says like it is right now,
and my choice in 2020 is either Trump, or Bernie, or Elizabeth Warren, or Gavin Newsom, or one of
these crazy progressives, I'm voting Trump, and I won't have a problem doing it. And the audience
is still ravenous for conversations between the likes of Ben Shapiro and Jordan Peterson. And
with over 2 million views and 40 times the number of likes to dislikes, there's a clear sign here
that the Rubin report audience has an insatiable hunger for this type of content. Compare that to
the recent interview with David Frum, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush, and certainly
nobody's progressive, and we see the views drop down to 60,000 for the main interview, and a huge
outpouring of dislikes. At this point, the Rubin report's audience is reliably on the right, if
not far right. Whatever labels they wish to champion, when they have warmer reactions for
the likes of Stefan Molyneux or Lauren Southern instead of David Frum, this is not traditional
conservative politics. While I don't have any real data to accurately measure the political alignment
of the Rubin report audience, here is some spontaneous polling of the audience at a Dave
Rubin comedy show to give us a worthless anecdote. How many of you would say that you're conservatives
by a round of applause? How many conservatives, how many of you, how many of you are libertarians,
libertarians? All right, we did conservatives, we did libertarians. How many of you, how many
progressives, how many progressives? So we got, not one, no one will say it, I mean we're not going
to take, shoot you. I mean, oh we have one, we have one, please take them outside.
So we did conservatives, we did libertarians, we did, how many classical liberals?
Some selection biases at play here, because anyone going to a Dave Rubin comedy show must
really love the guy, or pay themselves.
Ultimately, I think Dave Rubin isn't just a supporter of the free marketplace of ideas,
he's also a victim. By throwing the reins of his show to the audience and following the money,
whatever vision he had of a show that spanned the political spectrum was co-opted by anti-left and
conservative voices. The free market was never going to protect Rubin's ideal platform. How could it?
As much as we might like to think everyone has a spot in the marketplace, we're limited by the
people we can reach and the people who will listen to us. As much as we like to think a strong idea
can survive any onslaught, it can never be heard if it's never given a platform, and a platform
that refuses to engage with one side of the political spectrum, or at least grows increasingly
hostile towards it, will never be a place where ideas can be fairly compared. In an ideal world,
the free marketplace of ideas would truly let every idea have a shot at expressing itself,
and be presented to a diverse audience capable of making a reasonable consideration of the evidence.
But, in the world we've got, the ideas that get championed or platformed are often the ones coming
from people with resources to make that happen. A libertarian think tank funded by wealthy people
can spread its ideas of classical liberalism more easily than a trans activist with a blog.
If you claim to be a space where all ideas can be discussed and then deliberately host one side
far more than the other on just about every issue, you aren't the free market you pretend to be.
You're an opportunist platform fighting for the status quo.
I think you know what one of those places is called.
