The world is weird, it makes me mad, but at least I get to talk about it, with Jose.
In the first episode of the 1999 animated series Futurama, a delivery boy named Fry
gets transported 1,000 years into the future.
When he's outfitted for a chip that will forever brand him as a delivery boy, it's
done so under the auspices of the motto, you gotta do what you gotta do.
This image perfectly captures the idea of being swallowed up by a system that will make
every decision for you, and you can only resign yourself to the idea that this is how
the world works.
Terms like these carry this deep resignation that the world is the way it is, and change
just isn't gonna happen.
Some of the most popular political content on YouTube can fall under the category of
owning the libs, anti-SJW commentary, taking down the right, or some other adversarial
position.
It tries to create the idea of a political position not so much around what a person
believes, but what that person perceives themselves as standing up against.
Over the past few weeks, some of the major controversies in the social media space have
been manufactured nonsense, from the potato head rebranding to some old Dr. Seuss book
no longer being published, but you can see similar narratives cropping around real stories,
such as the recent shooting in Atlanta.
Discussions about issues regarding the LGBT community, race, and gender are immediately
waved aside.
The problem isn't just that figures on the right lie about this stuff, the bigger issue
is that they're telling their audience that it's not something worth caring about to
begin with, and those who do claim to care about it are either hypocrites or cultists.
The innuendo studio's YouTube channel has a couple of videos on this topic from its
alt-right playbook series, particularly how rhetoric is used to control conversations
using a barrage of accusations.
It's why so many of the stories I mentioned above are always framed as attacks.
It's never an issue explored, it's always phrased as the left, or hysterical and out
of control when no one would even know about these issues if it wasn't for some right-wing
loudmouth bringing them up first.
What I want to focus on is not just how the right engages with this debate, but how there's
this implicit effort to get people to disengage entirely from the world of politics.
One of the most effective ways of controlling public conversation is convincing people not
to engage in it, at least not honestly.
Back when I made my big video on Dave Rubin many years ago, one of the weirdest things
about his content was how often he said he didn't want to be talking about politics.
It's a line I saw repeated by the likes of Tim Poole, The Quartering, or anyone who
serves a young right-wing audience.
This idea that they really wish they didn't have to talk about any of this stuff, but
if it wasn't just for those darn people on the left, we could ignore it and go back
to talking about fun things.
Carried with that is this idea that caring about this stuff is not really worthy of attention,
if not for the rabble-rousers, who are supposedly not coming from an honest place.
And the reason they tell their audience to care about now is because it's a threat
to the status quo.
State into this mindset is the idea that the world is essentially buying the way it
is.
Injustices are rare, local, and handled by the systems we have in place.
Maybe we need some tweaks, sometimes there's a bad apple, but things are actually pretty
good right now and we don't have to worry about any sort of systemic changes.
If someone feels satisfied in their life, they're a lot less likely to become politically
active.
And if they're told the world is fine, aside from the rabble-rousers, that's another incentive
to just tune out and not really engage with politics.
And I know that sounds counterproductive if you're trying to win an election, but it
also pairs with the fact that some people know there are problems in their lives and
the world isn't perfectly fine when there are people who are struggling.
Most of those problems will be filed under the idea that this is just the way the world
works, best to just accept it, be a grownup, and move on.
But if the person is still annoyed because, well, there's a lot about the world that
sucks, a villain needs to be created.
So if anything bad happens, it's probably the left's fault.
Their audience is motivated into action only against the perceived threat to their status
quo.
Things were always fine before they changed.
That's the essence of right-wing messaging, because, of course, it's maintaining the
status quo or possibly some reactionary stuff to move things backwards.
It's never the system that's the problem.
It's the bad actor or actors who have ruined it.
It's how an unjust police killing is framed as one bad apple rather than symbolic of
a systemic problem.
Or if a scientific body is saying you need to change how you think about something, it's
probably been infiltrated by some provocateurs.
The system is fine.
It's just some rotten agents who have somehow corrupted it from within.
And if we just get rid of a couple of bad people, we can go back to not talking about
these things and not really caring, because things are fine in the status quo.
That's why the aforementioned controversies are framed as an attack by the left.
They're signaling to their audience that caring about this stuff is silly, and only
silly people on the left do it.
But if we let this slide, we could very well end up in some kind of 1984-esque hellscape.
Notice that, in all of that rhetoric, no political actions are really espoused aside from some
vague references to principles like free speech.
There are no policy ideas or broader initiatives, just a vague hatred for the other side, because
why would you need to motivate someone into political action when your politics are based
on keeping things the same?
Here's what apathetic political engagement would look like.
One morning, there will be a story all over social media about how the left, those scoundrels,
have decided that Paddington Bear is now a female bear.
The right-wing Pundo Sphere, all in unison, will start talking about how the left is out
of control, and if this is to stand, soon the nation and the West will all fall.
When the audience laps it up, they might even up with their donations.
The mainstream press reports on it, with some confusion as to why anyone would care about
this, but still, you know, reporting on it because they're hungry for the ratings.
And this eventually filters up to opportunistic politicians, who will give speeches designed
specifically for Twitter, where they decry that poor Paddington Bear will now be a she
instead of a he.
The big winners in all of this are the right-wing media people who get clicks, the mainstream
media who get ratings, and politicians who might get a few votes.
A few votes, by the way, based on sharing a common interest, not because they're proposing
some kind of Paddington-centric legislation, or even if they draw up that bill because
the story lasts a little longer than New Cycle than most, it'll probably be shot down and
quickly forgotten because, really, this is all performance theater.
What exactly are the politics of all of this?
As best I can tell from this scenario I just made up, it would be that the left is terrible
and trying to change things, when things should never be changed, with subtle digs
at women and the LGBT community for good measure.
This isn't really a coherent political ideology, it's just a brief exercise of rage designed
to whip everyone into a frenzy before they settle back down and go back to the world
ready to let it resume unchanged.
It's basically the two-minute hate from 1984.
And I now demand bonus points for making a 1984 reference that isn't completely played
out and actually makes sense.
Politics should be about something, you know, a goal, some kind of achievable end.
This anger that's stoked is designed to get people riled up without them actually channeling
that anger to something constructive.
Aside from, you know, providing monetary support to the right-wing media system and voting
for politicians who will do absolutely nothing for them.
In one of the rare instances where one of these stories can break through, it's in
service to a power structure trying to maintain the status quo, such as a government pressure
in a university to remove certain courses from its curriculum or removing training that
raises issues of systemic inequalities.
Political victory here looks like silencing the other side of the debate in an effort
to maintain the status quo.
This is also why conservative commentators often frame their critiques of these issues
so dishonestly.
They present these issues to their audience as nonsensical as a way of signaling to them
that these issues can be safely ignored and discarded.
Giving these ideas honestly would force this side to genuinely engage with them, but by
not doing that, they can infectively make their audience misinformed, disengaged, and
apathetic towards any sort of social change.
Another way this takes shape that's very similar to apathy is cynicism.
While it exists across the political spectrum, I think it's much stronger on the right.
The ethos of, that's just the way the world is, without ever exploring the thought on
the way the world can be.
And while there is reason to use cynicism, the world is a rough place, and progress doesn't
always work out, there's a difference between acknowledging that reality and becoming a
cynic yourself.
When you can transform people into cynics, that's really advantageous to anyone trying
to maintain the status quo.
So it shouldn't be a surprise that it's the tool most often deployed by people who have
the most to lose if the system were changed.
It's not a coincidence that so much billionaire money funds these fringe right-wing outlets.
From PragerU to The Daily Wire, these media companies can trace their origins to investments
from fracking and oil industries that are looking for a slick outlet that will fight
to ensure regulations are imposed upon industries that make climate change worse and undermine
investment in renewable energy.
This can mean everything from spreading lies about climate change to relentlessly attacking
politicians seeking to implement policies that would reduce carbon emissions.
In other words, they fight to maintain the status quo.
As a side note, I would like to say that this doesn't mean that Dennis Prager or Ben Shapiro
are necessarily frauds doing it for the money.
I suppose it could be true.
The main point is, the reason these guys are funded is because they say the things the
energy billionaires want them to say, whether or not it's genuine or not, misses the whole
point of why they exist in the first place.
The point of channels like these are to confuse political activism as engaging with the channels
themselves.
That is to say, you are achieving some kind of political goal by consuming the content
they produce.
In effect, you are helping to dunk on the libs by watching one of these videos.
You aren't advocating for policy change, of course.
You aren't encouraging political activism.
You're just pointing and laughing at someone.
And the world can use on without any major changes.
Which is the whole point.
That's the sinister nature of these channels, all the while collecting subscriber fees and
advertising dollars along the way, and directing you to vote for the occasional politician
who will help their donors make a few extra billion dollars.
And who wouldn't feel cynical seeing a business model like that laid out?
The truth is a depressing thing sometimes, but I hope that no one watching this would
ever consider giving in to a power imbalance like that on the basis of the idea that this
is how the world works.
Apathy and cynicism are poison to the left.
It discourages activism and encourages disengagement.
It's never expressly endorsed, but as I hope I've demonstrated, is implicit in a lot of
conservative media.
While you might be able to debate someone on facts or reach them through emotion, it's
a lot harder when the very idea of caring about something is made distasteful.
Or the only things people seem to care about are standing in opposition to some perceived
enemy.
Particularly, I hate how the left's compassion and kindness are presented as disingenuous
or manipulative, as if no one could truly believe these things.
It's certainly possible to believe these things if you're willing to actually have some empathy
and concern for the people around you, and sometimes even the people you've never met.
One of the nice things about caring is if you believe in it, and you do it, it's true.
Certainly I've been just as guilty of this as anyone, and I'm not convinced it's necessarily
a bad thing entirely, pointing out how full of crap people are is important, but pointing
out how wrong someone is isn't the same thing as having a political ideology.
It's also something that hurts us more than it hurts the right.
We need to organize and create action to change the world for the better, and they don't.
What do we do, Jose?
Tell us the answers.
If you would like to know a starting point, I would suggest you look as local as possible.
This is where you'll have the strongest impact as an individual.
Think about the issues that matter most to you, and join local organizations that engage
with them, whether it's something like environmentalism, or labor reforms, or social justice issues
more broadly.
Look at public forums like city council meetings, or residence association meetings, anywhere
where people are offered an open forum to discuss the issues that matter to them, and
meet other people who care about the same things.
Even something as simple as attending a protest can make a difference.
Try to think of it as joining a group, a community that can help change the world around
you.
Because when you find more of those people who are like you and want to change things,
you'll realize you actually have a lot of power when you work together.
However you decide to use your political consciousness, I just want you to try to be constructively
engaged, and as terrible as the world is sometimes, you can't afford the luxury of not caring
enough to want to make the world a better place.
Humanity has been slowly improving itself over generations, but it never got better
by not caring.
This is a short video, I know people like the shorter ones, but I try not to make them
unless they have something I actually want to say, and this is something that's been
on the back of my mind for a while.
You can join the lovely people whose names are floating up the screen, those are my patrons
and members, they don't just get their names in the credits, although that's pretty awesome
right?
They also get early access to videos and download things to my theme songs.
It's all super cool.
If you'd like to support the channel in a non-monetary fashion, you can like, comment,
subscribe, and hit the bell for notifications.
If you don't know what to comment, why not tell me your favorite song that's a cover
of another song?
Thank you everyone for watching!
