Part 2 of 2.
And looking back on this week, I can safely say I'm so glad it's over.
The world is weird, it makes me nervous, I get to talk about it, but how I say.
Only touches on the subject in a few videos, I did want to highlight this specifically
because it encapsulates what right-wing propaganda does so effectively.
Even if Tim doesn't think of himself as right-wing, the fact that he parrots their
talking points uncritically makes his personal opinions irrelevant.
When it comes to trans issues, he helps spread a conservative narrative.
In Far Leftists Are Tearing, JK Rowling to Shreds after a transphobic tweet.
Tim came out, as you might have guessed, in favor of JK Rowling and her transphobic tweet.
If JK Rowling is going to speak up for a woman who is unjustly fired, she did the right thing.
And this is exactly what you can expect from the fringe, authoritarian left who want to
now destroy her over this.
Male and female exist.
She is correct.
She said gender expression identity is different and people can express themselves however
they want.
She took the fair and reasonable approach.
She actually ceded the gender framing to the left.
But because she said male and female are real, and a male can never become a female, that's
it.
Before covering the trans issue, I'd like to note Tim's framing of JK Rowling in general.
When Rowling does something that might appeal to the left, like revealing one of her characters
was actually gay, it's considered pandering.
But when appealing to the right, by defending a turf, she's apparently standing up for
something she believes in.
This is another example of how Tim frames left and right-wing opinions.
One is cynical and disingenuous, and the other one is genuine and heartfelt.
The story of the woman Rowling was tweeting her support of could make for a whole video
in and of itself, but I want to focus on Tim's opinions about trans people and how these
opinions frame his commentary.
Up until the point we develop technology that can radically alter your DNA and reconstruct
your body at the cellular level, males cannot become female or vice versa.
Now you can become a trans, you know, you can transition, and you can present as male
or female, but that's different from literally being as such.
He backs this up by saying,
They're facts!
It's biological fact!
Where's reality going?
This is the standard right-wing talking point.
When someone is assigned male or female at birth, this is something stamped on them to
never be altered or changed, and something that is apparently instantly evident at the
moment of birth.
Let's jump ahead to Hollywood leftists just proved they are spineless cowards bending
the knee to far-left Twitter Roddy.
He's very concerned about science in this one.
I have some bad news for people.
Science is a thing.
And you can't just say something is anti-science without actually having academia to back it
up.
In this video, Tim goes off against GLAAD and HRC, who, you would think, might know
something about trans people.
But Tim is about to blow them out of the water.
He opens with this powerful statement.
My opinion.
I am not saying these things to be hurtful.
I am saying that currently, based on human knowledge and the structure of the English
language, what they said is just fundamentally false.
If you Google the word woman, they tell you a woman is an adult human female.
And now we are getting to the point where definitions literally don't make sense.
But he doesn't stop there.
He goes with the strongest science he knows.
Here's the Wikipedia page for women.
I have shown this many a time.
It says, a woman is a female human being.
The word woman is usually reserved for an adult.
Girl is usually the term for a female child or adolescent.
The plural women is also sometimes used for female humans, regardless of age, as in phrases
such as women's rights.
My favorite part is when he gets to the section on the page that explains trans women are
also women, and he just gets angry about it.
However, it also says some women are trans.
That literally makes no sense.
If you want it to be true, that's fine.
It's not an argument about opinions or ideology, I'm literally telling you.
You can't simultaneously say at the same time.
A woman is a female human being, and some women are trans.
The some women are trans would then actually mean that some women are trans men.
So Wikipedia is an authority until Tim decides it isn't.
Tim is at his most honest here, though.
That means I need you to define what this means so that I can agree with you.
Because right now, basically, I have no idea what you're trying to say.
I really, really don't.
But he offers a path forward.
If it turns out, because yes, I've read much of this academic literature.
So I've seen the arguments.
I am just saying right now, we are not in that place.
This is the standard conservative pushback against the idea of trans people.
When in doubt, cite science without pointing towards any specific researcher or findings
or anything, really.
The word science, and in this case a Wikipedia page that disagrees with you, is all that
anyone needs.
Tim's spin on this is to repeatedly claim how much he respects trans people and will
use their pronouns out of politeness, but ultimately he doesn't see any scientific
basis in them saying they are the gender they identify with.
For those of us not as well versed on this as Professor Poole thinks he is, I'd point
people towards a lovely article in Scientific American by neuroscientist and doctoral candidate
Simone D. Sun that makes a good case for the biological underpinnings of being trans
and the complexity of the male and female labels we use so freely.
Turns out it's far more complicated than people assume and not firmly fixed as someone
such as Tim would have you believe.
By covering for people like J.K. Rowling when they say something anti-trans, Tim is helping
uphold a conservative narrative that trans people's lived experiences are delusions.
Tim's analysis of pretty much all news stories reveal a complete lack of curiosity.
He will complain about the mainstream media jumping to conclusions or not doing their
due diligence, but there are several examples of how his bias guides him through news stories
to frame them within a general anti-left sentiment.
In the video, 5 students ARRESTED for beating a 14 year old allegedly for wearing a MAGA
hat.
I probably didn't need to say MAGA like that, but I will leave it in.
He credulously repeats the common narrative of right-wingers being under attack for supporting
Trump in public.
One important caveat to this video's title is that at the time of the attack, the kid
was not wearing a MAGA hat.
At the time of the incident, he wasn't wearing the hat.
Question it, whatever.
The argument is that he had worn it in the past, was bullied for it, so stopped and then
got bullied again.
The only piece of evidence we have, a video of this attack, shows the kid not wearing
a MAGA hat.
So why does Tim believe that this is somehow linked to it?
Because this is so, well it's common enough, I kinda believe it.
So Tim just believes it, because, well, it's happened before.
This isn't how journalism works.
You can't just take a claim on face value because you believe it happened before.
The onus is still on the person making the claim to provide evidence.
The story was publicized by the boy's mother, who happens to run a fairly prominent Twitter
account with nearly half a million followers.
This is the only source saying the boy was being bullied for wearing a MAGA hat.
She also claims it was a hate crime because her son is white and his attackers were black.
There's an official statement from the school, which Tim mentions, that says the fight had
nothing to do with clothing.
There was no evidence found during the investigation that indicated the student was wearing any
of this apparel at the time of the altercation, or that his wearing of such apparel on a prior
occasion motivated the incident.
Boom.
There it is.
That's the important point.
You gotta be careful, man, because there are people who take advantage of your good
will on the left and the right.
Tim responds to this by suggesting the school might be lying.
I understand the school has reason to try and deflect and be like, no, no, no, it doesn't
happen at our school.
But I also want to make sure you're all aware, tons of people lie.
They are grifters and they will come for you.
I'm not accusing them of anything.
He never assumes this of the boy's mother, or at least he doesn't assume the mother
might not have all the facts, that a GoFundMe was started by the boy's mother so that
she can homeschool him is similarly mentioned without the faintest bit of suspicion.
But the most telling line is here.
How do you prove a negative?
You know what I mean?
Like, if the school is saying it was not motivated by a previous political hat, how do you know
that?
That's just not how proving anything works.
If there's a claim and no evidence is provided for it, as a journalist, you should try finding
it.
If you can't find that evidence, then guess what?
You don't run the story.
I lean more towards the likelihood of this being true, regardless of what the school
said, simply because it fits with what we've seen in the past.
This is the perfect example of the laziness of Tim Poole.
He would sooner believe the framing he sees on Twitter rather than the school's investigation
because it fits in with the persecuted conservative narrative he already believes is true.
This is what happens when you let narratives determine how you view the news of the day.
This seems grossly irresponsible to me, and reading the comments we can see what his audience
took away from this.
Imagine if five of white's kids did this to a black kid.
Worldwide news for weeks.
Can you imagine eight white kids doing this?
CNN, the KKK is back, and lynchings of POC have begun again.
God help us.
They beat him because he was white, and their best excuse was he was wearing Trump's merch.
It makes one wonder why Tim Poole's audience gets so worked up about white people.
But what's most alarming to me about this story is that the kids seen fighting in the
first video are getting charged, which seems pretty extreme for kids so young.
But no one seems to care that they now have criminal records before they've even gotten
their driver's license.
Fights on school buses happen every day, but thanks to the coverage from conservative media,
this one almost certainly got more scrutiny than it otherwise would have.
And Tim is part of the problem when he propagates baseless stories like this one.
Although he claims to be a liberal, someone who parrots conservative media stories, especially
ones like these, with racist undertones of white people being under attack, aren't just
fostering hatred.
There are direct, real-world consequences to this.
Another conservative narrative Tim loves to repeat is that there's an impending civil
war.
What would that topic in 95 Second Amendment sanctuaries emerge in Virginia if there's
a second civil war it starts here?
In this video, Tim boldly claims,
Well, now we can see what's happening in Virginia.
As the Democrats won a majority and now they're trying to enact a ton of laws, essentially
gun confiscation.
It's kind of complicated.
Of course it's complicated.
I know I say it a lot, but it is.
I genuinely don't know what he's talking about here.
It would help if he explained which laws Democrats are passing within Virginia that are threatened
to take away people's guns.
But he doesn't.
I know this is a common talking point on the right, but where's the evidence that this
is actually happening?
The only details Tim offers refer to the Republicans being responsible for these Virginia counties
passing laws to protect gun ownership.
Tim believes guns are essential to living in the middle of nowhere.
He provides us a chilling example.
If you're in the middle of nowhere and you see, I don't know, a coyote?
Or a villain?
Because guess what?
People can be bad too.
What do you do?
You're out in the middle of nowhere.
You're in your little car.
You pull off on the side of the road.
You know, you're going to change your tire.
Who knows what?
And all of a sudden you see this shambling dude lurking all about and he pulls out a
knife.
Yeah.
You're going to call the police?
Congratulations.
They'll be there.
They're 200 miles away.
No.
So in this scenario, there are shambling, knife wielding villains on the prowl in the
middle of nowhere.
Does Tim think rural America is like Silent Hill?
But let's get back to the real narrative Tim is pushing here that the left is coming
for everyone's guns.
And how are they going to do it?
With immigration.
Immigrants are religious and they're going to bring with them more conservative values
than progressives will have.
Progressives are secular.
Okay.
Latino migrants from Mexico.
They're not.
They're Christians.
Okay.
That's a good win for conservatives, but they also don't have the same constitutional values
that Americans have.
So yes, they will vote Democrat and they will vote to take away your rights in the
long run.
But things are going to shift very religious and there will be a lot of conservative aspects
that come back like Christmas, for instance.
So immigrants will arrive with their religious values and apparently not assimilate, turning
the democratic party into the party of Christian conservatism.
This is quite the prediction.
If you know anything about the evangelical base of the Republican party.
Just a side note, when did Christmas go away?
I think he's trying to explain that here.
All the people screeching that some guy said Merry Christmas.
Oh no.
Who cares?
Yeah, you realize in like 30 years, happy holidays will be gone because the people you're
inviting into the country are overwhelmingly Christians, you know, I don't think they
get it.
I'm pretty sure Christmas was just celebrated in the US.
Can someone confirm that for me?
But that aside, there's a more sinister point Tim is making here.
So they're Christians, but they're not constitutional Americans.
They don't look at free speech and these issues the same way.
That's the real threat to our rights.
This is a common conservative narrative, this idea that immigrants will not assimilate
and demand the country upend the Constitution to limit people's rights.
Tim doesn't even understand why he just buys into the idea that immigrants have distinct
cultures and won't become real Americans that believe in American ideals.
For what it's worth, Tim clarifies and says literally everybody can come to the United
States.
All of them, every single person, okay, if it's legally done.
And he explains it's illegal immigration.
That's the issue.
To be as charitable as possible, maybe Tim thinks the real danger is making illegal immigrants
citizens will shift the balance of immigrants and native born Americans so that immigrants
would be empowered to vote away everyone's rights.
I don't understand how this can be anything other than prejudice to assume that anyone
coming to America will do so in an effort to reshape the country, to take away everyone's
rights.
It's not the end of the world.
Y'all need to calm down.
And I like how this video ends with Tim telling people to calm down right after he spent 12
minutes talking about how there was an impending civil war.
Thanks for the advice, Tim.
Since I chose a week close to the holidays, I got a nice dose of festive content from
Tim.
Here's one video that's strangely titled, Soon Merry Christmas Will Be Hate Speech.
Comedian got in trouble at work for saying it.
Tim's discussing two stories here.
One is of comedian Whitney Cummings supposedly being reported to HR for wishing someone a
Merry Christmas, and the other example is Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch being
criticized for saying Merry Christmas on Fox News.
You can see the glee Tim gets when he hears a story about people being stupid.
I wonder if he watches his own videos.
And speaking on the Whitney Cummings incident, taking this chat show anecdote on face value,
it sounds like an intern was perhaps too sensitive.
And that's assuming there's no missing context here.
Tim frames it like this.
The punishment for Cummings, near as I can tell, was someone from HR mentioning it to
her.
And that's it.
How nightmarish.
The second story is more interesting, and it would have made more sense if Gorsuch had
made his statement in a less obvious way.
But let's look at the actual clip of him saying Merry Christmas.
So the context here is that Fox News pretends that you can't say Merry Christmas on TV,
and when Ainsley Earhart says she loves that he says it, it reinforces the idea that there's
a war on Christmas, a conspiracy theory Fox News has been pushing for 15 years.
Overall it's a minor point, and somehow became the focal point of this interview when
I think the real question is why a Supreme Court justice is making a rare TV appearance
on a partisan show like Fox and Friends.
The outrage over the left going crazy appeared in article after article, each one mentioning
an article that was published in Salon and a handful of tweets complaining about the
Merry Christmas dog whistle.
This is the perfect example of a manufactured story, and how the right wing is so effective
in repeating their talking points, they believe they can spin it into a bigger deal than it
really was, and Tim is playing his part in tarnishing the left with a ginned up story
of outrage.
And don't look, the Republicans are also fundraising off this appearance, that's not
suspect at all.
This video also features Tim racing to the defense of Fox's All-American Christmas ad,
which was criticized for being too white.
They're angry that a commercial for Ainsley Earhart doesn't include people of color,
what the commercial probably has like what, three people in it?
These people are insane.
Just for fun, how many people were in this commercial?
December, join us for an All-American Christmas, all month long on Fox Nation, bringing you
heartwarming stories and original specials that celebrate America and our traditions
every day.
Check out these exclusive shows.
This December on Fox Nation, your favorite Fox personalities celebrate an All-American
Christmas.
Plus, we're breaking into the Christmas vault for some classic holiday entertainment.
It's an All-American Christmas on Fox Nation.
So Tim was almost close.
It wasn't three people, it was closer to 24.
The War on Christmas idea has long been a staple at Fox News, and the Salon article
I mentioned taking all the heat at least goes to the trouble of describing its origin with
Bill O'Reilly back in 2004, and it includes a link to a political article that goes into
further historical detail.
Tim, of course, doesn't engage with any of this, and instead pretends like people pointing
out the conspiracy theory are, in fact, the conspiracy theorists themselves.
That a Fox host and a Supreme Court justice simply saying, Merry Christmas, I love that
you say that, is actually them trying to validate a conspiracy theory, you're actually the
one pushing the conspiracy theory.
So I will ask, how long do you think until they start actually banning people for saying
things like this?
Ironically, Tim talking about people getting banned for saying Merry Christmas, a statement
not backed up by any of the facts and any of the stories here, is actually perpetuating
the War on Christmas conspiracy theory.
A few tweets and one article Salon criticizing something isn't the same as asking for words
to be banned.
Tim also deploys one of his most commonly used tactics when it comes to ignoring the
left.
He simply writes them off as crazy.
This is the epitome of just, you know what, I've never seen a more insane leftist article.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
This is one of the most common talking points he deploys and a classic method used to sidestep
any real discussion or debate when you can write off your opposition is crazy.
You don't have to engage with them in a meaningful sense.
And I know while Tim has tried addressing people on the left in debates, like his recent
embarrassing conversation with Sam Cedar, he's revealed that he isn't equipped to be
having these discussions.
And I admit it's it's I'll call it dickish utilitarianism is typically the villain in
most movies.
I don't care.
Yeah.
So, so for instance, like Thanos was the utilitarian and Captain America was deontological.
I did.
So Thanos willing to reduce the suffering by killing, you know, hundreds of trillions
versus the thousands of trillions, which would be living better off.
So maybe that's why he would sooner write off the left as crazy or detached from reality.
He's not capable of really engaging with them in a meaningful way.
I suspect a lot of that comes from him generally not understanding what he reads as evidenced
by the many previous examples already in this video.
Here's another example of how he doesn't really read the articles he highlights.
In the war on Christmas video, I mentioned he waved away all claims about Fox News pushing
a war on Christmas narrative with they say Fox News is a long history of claiming there
is a war on Christmas tracing back to a 2004 segment by former talk show host Bill O'Reilly
called Christmas under siege.
This is insanity.
He literally just said Merry Christmas and said, I love you say that.
I don't know what that's supposed to mean other than Merry Christmas.
And here's what happens when he gets further along in the article.
Oh, oh, I'm sorry.
It's also anti-Semitic.
They added that too.
You know what, man, I'm over it.
It seems like Tim was genuinely surprised to read that bit almost as if he hadn't
read the article fully before deciding to make a video on it or being more fair than
maybe I should be.
Maybe Tim forgot about that part.
He certainly didn't have anything to say about it.
And that's how Tim handles most of his topics.
He points out ridiculous lefts being writes them off as crazy and absolves himself of
the weighty business of addressing their criticisms.
And those are the exact anti-left wing narratives that his right wing audience snaps up so
readily.
With those major themes all covered, I did see a few videos that don't fit into any
specific category that still display some of the poor tactics Tim uses to talk about
the news.
In a video charmingly titled Greta Thunberg Accidentally Calls for Execution of Politicians
Take the Greta Thunberg Challenge, climate activist Greta Thunberg is of course a hot
button topic being an advocate for climate change and Tim, though a believer in climate
change supposedly, isn't a fan of Greta.
The heart of this video is Greta's claim that she wants to put politicians against
the wall with regard to climate change, which Tim and conservative media took to mean she
wants to lead a violent revolution putting these politicians against the wall where they'll
be executed.
Do you know what it means to put someone against the wall in English?
It's a reference to, you know, putting someone against the wall and then aiming a weapon
at them because you're sentencing them to no longer being alive.
But Tim breaks ranks here, surprisingly.
He does the unthinkable and gets more input from a Swedish journalist who explained that
in Sweden, the phrase, up against the wall, also means being in a tight spot.
I reached out to a local journalist and I asked them, what does it mean?
And he told me it's a very common phrase that means pushing them up against the wall
and likes, it's like basically my understanding is when they don't do what you want to do,
you hold them accountable about pushing them to the wall and like, you know, solding them.
Like, you know, that's basically it.
Here's a fun fact.
That's also what it means in English, at least according to the dictionary.
But the heart of why Tim doesn't like Greta is that while he agrees with her message,
he thinks she's just being too mean.
You need to stop propping her up.
So leaving aside how gross it is for an adult man telling a teenage girl she should smile
more, this is the exact sort of tone policing that's the real enemy of discourse.
The idea that if only Greta were nice and polite, climate change would be solved, or
at least people would finally listen.
Scientists have been politely requesting governments take a moment to do something about emissions
for decades.
The time for politely asking for change has passed.
Throughout the video, Tim keeps pivoting back to Greta needing to convince random people
walking down the street.
This isn't about asking someone to ride a bike to work.
The only way to solve climate change is through action at the highest levels of government.
Religious people are precisely who Greta was scolding, and if Tim believes that governments
won't take action because the 16-year-old girl wasn't nice enough, he isn't qualified
to be speaking on the subject.
And before leaving, I do feel like I need to mention that Tim had two videos about UFOs.
Massive surge of credible UFO sightings in 2019 theorists think aliens will reveal themselves,
and Trump's Space Force is now official.
New branch comes conspicuously around the same time as UFOs.
I gotta say, I had no idea that Tim Poole was into UFOs, but it's the least surprising
new thing I learned while watching a week of his content.
Tim buys into some pretty kooky stuff, so sure, why not UFOs?
Heck, he even thinks the massive waste of taxpayer money that is the Space Force is
Donald Trump's coolest idea.
For some reason, there are a lot of people ragging on Trump for wanting a Space Force,
and I gotta admit, this is the coolest thing Trump has ever done.
And he thinks this is a step towards the Federation, as seen on Star Trek.
You know, we have all these shows, you know, you have Starfleet and Star Trek, and you
have these sci-fi movies where there's like a fleet in outer space.
This is the beginning of that, okay?
I'm not sure why the beginning wasn't NASA, the government agency that's dedicated
to space travel and has already been to the moon, but I guess they're not training people
to blow up aliens, so less cool, I guess.
I'm a fan of the Star Trek that's about science and exploration, meeting new aliens
to be their friends, not blow them up.
But I'm obviously not being fair.
Tim isn't here to push conspiracy theories, he says so himself.
I am not here to push stupid conspiracies or anything, I'm just here to have a little
fun with these UFO stories.
And here he is definitely not pushing a conspiracy theory forward.
Is something interesting that should be mentioned, that we have an uptick in all of these credible
stories about UFOs, Navy pilots, going back years, saying this is real, and then all of
a sudden, a space force being signed into law.
Is it possible that in reality, it's not about aliens, it's about the fact the U.S. government
is recognizing finally, and they are, that there is something happening in space and
in the atmosphere we can't understand?
He's just having fun, you guys.
Perhaps now, the Space Force, in the next few years, they're going to be like, look
at this thing we built, even though we've already had the technology for a long time.
I don't know, I don't know, I just like the idea, I think it's fun, I'm not telling
you it's true, I know all the stupid lefties are going to be like, Tim pushes UFO conspiracies
all the time, oh calm down, okay, this story is real, it's from the independent left-wing
side, I think it's just fun to talk about.
And the sad thing is, if Tim limited his videos to discussions about UFOs and big feet, it
would be far less damaging.
Believing in stupid conspiracies isn't nearly as harmful as what he does now, disseminating
right-wing talking points and actively reframing news of the day to fit right-wing narratives.
I don't care about Tim Pool, it's what he represents, that's the problem.
People like Tim Pool, who use their supposed status as being on the left-wing and then
go on to trash the left-wing with right-wing talking points and narratives, will always
exist.
When Tim Pool calls it a day in his career, someone else who uses the same techniques
will show up and take his place.
I'm hoping this exercise in looking at Tim Pool's work will help you see some of the
warning signs in the future, and hopefully you'll be able to spot future Tim Pools
at first glance.
How they'll weigh the benefit of the doubt towards conservatives.
How they'll only read stories superficially.
How they'll dismiss arguments with personal insults and their general reluctance to ever
criticize in any meaningful way, besides someone supposedly disagrees with politically.
Before I go, I just can't resist, using some of the random clips I couldn't find
a place for in this video that just make Tim look stupid.
There is no context for these, I just wanted to dunk on him a little.
So let's have fun doing that.
Here's Tim saying socialism can't work unless you get rid of money.
So the only true socialist or communist system can't have money in it.
Here's Tim saying something obviously not true about the president who has the thinnest
skin ever.
Do you think Trump cares about people calling him bad names?
I don't think so.
Tim apparently believes entitled college kids expect factories to be handed to them.
You look at the factory that someone else put time and energy to build.
All of the workers, whatever your opinion is about labor.
Somebody made a plan.
Somebody worked hard, saved money.
Somebody got a loan.
They hired people.
Everyone contributed to build a factory.
Now you deserve that because you took feminist dance at a local college and you were indoctrinated
into the idea that people shouldn't be allowed to build a company and own property.
Okay, whatever.
Have those opinions.
Here's Tim offering some survival advice.
You can be homeless.
You can have no clothes.
You can be in the middle of the woods.
But you can pick up a rock and congratulations, now you've got something.
You can start doing something.
Go watch ancient technology on YouTube.
I love these channels.
He built a mud hut in an oven.
He got a house.
He builds a house.
It's amazing.
A lot of dirt.
Brilliant.
I don't know how a person naked in the woods watches YouTube, but okay.
Tim mistakenly thinks a common phrase comes from a card game.
There's something I've cited, you know, several times, mostly in the past.
I'll bring it back up.
It's this Magic the Gathering card.
If you're familiar with the game, Magic the Gathering, it's a card game.
Swords to plowshares.
For the record, the phrase actually originates from the Bible, which predates Magic the Gathering
by at least a couple of decades.
I didn't get to any of Tim's horrible videos about British politics, but if you want to
know the sort of experts he consults, here's who he talks to.
I should say this.
I'll defer to Sargon.
Alright, if you guys watch Sargon's content, because he's from there.
He knows better than me.
Also, I thought it was funny that he didn't know how the UK House of Lords works or that
it existed.
Did you know that the UK has a House of Lords?
I didn't understand this.
I thought it was like the House and the Senate.
No, it turns out the House of Lords are like appointees of like land owners from historic
times.
I'm thinking Bernie Sanders was born nearly 100 years ago.
What generation is Bernie in?
He's not a boomer.
No, he's not a boomer.
What is he?
Greatest generation?
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
What generation is it?
It's greatest, right?
Bernie is actually a part of the silent generation, but just barely though, he was born in 1942.
Just shy of a few years of being a boomer.
Thank you all for bearing with me.
That was cathartic.
Whenever I make videos looking at some noxious conservative dirtbag, it's not as painful
for me as people think.
And I see all these comments saying, oh, thank you for your sacrifice for suffering through
this.
And while it's not a painless experience, you get used to it pretty quickly.
And when you're only looking at one video or a documentary film, you sort of become
numb to the awfulness.
This though, this was one week of 42 videos watching six a day from Tim Pool.
And ah, this one really, really hurt.
His content is just so bad.
There is so much rambling, so much nonsense.
It was rough.
It was rough.
But I do it all for you.
Those used in particular are my patrons.
But even if you're not a patron, I appreciate anyone who takes their time to watch my videos.
And if you'd like to show me said appreciation, there is of course the aforementioned Patreon
where you could give me a little money to do more videos like this and me or maybe videos
where I get to watch things I enjoy and have fun and tell you about them.
You can also do the usual YouTube things of liking, commenting, subscribing or sharing
this video with friends.
That's cool, too.
You can also follow me on Twitter, ask me some questions on curious cast.
And I'm thinking of doing a new Q&A video probably when I hit my next patron goal, which
has a very short, short, short, short bonus video that everyone will be seeing on this
channel.
And I'll throw in a Q&A.
Because why not?
It's been a while.
I think the last time I did one, I had like 2,500 subscribers.
There are a lot more of you now.
Look for a community post and that's where the questions will go.
Thank you all for watching my video, bye.
