I was working on a video a few weeks back defending Don Lemon from charges of racism.
For those who missed that mini-outrage, Lemon said white men, particularly right-wing white
men, were responsible for most of the terrorism in the United States, a verifiable fact.
The backlash was predictable, calling him a racist, Nazi, etc.
You know, that thing the left is always accused of, but is constantly heard from voices on
the right?
In making that video, I kept asking myself, how did I get here?
As someone on the left, why am I defending a center-left journalist working for CNN?
Have the lines of defense been pushed so far back that I'm arguing from the center now?
It's time to push back against centrism a little, and the trap we're all stuck in.
So I have to talk about a YouTuber named NuanceBro.
You can tell he's a man of nuance, because in the recent U.S. midterm election, according
to his shirt, instead of voting for a Democrat or a Republican, he voted for nuance.
I don't think nuance picked up many seats, though.
He claims to be making videos that look at both sides of an issue, and then uses facts
and reason to figure out the truth.
He has a few debunking videos where he takes on Black Lives Matter, gun control, and the
pink tax, and he has commentary videos where he defends various Trump policies and attacks
left-leaning media.
On the other hand, he also criticized Candace Owens for denying global warming one time.
So that's the sort of balance you see while glancing over his channel.
Highlighting one example briefly, during the recent kerfuffle over CNN's Jim Acosta having
his press credentials revoked, Acosta had bumped into a female aide working for the
Trump White House.
There was a very stupid uproar about this, and NuanceBro didn't want to get left out
of it.
Like a good little centrist, he came down on both sides of the issue.
He didn't fall into the obviously stupid line that karate master Jim Acosta had viciously
chopped this young woman's arm, because, you know, there's a video that shows it's
clearly accidental.
So I guess credit to NuanceBro for not bawling for one of the dumbest talking points I've
seen in the last, well, only couple of weeks.
There was another part to NuanceBro's take.
Here's the clip he used to prove that.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I wanted to challenge you on one of the statements that you made in the tail end of the campaign
in the midterms.
Here we go.
Well, if you don't mind, Mr. President, that this caravan was an invasion.
As you know, Mr. President, the caravan was not an invasion.
It's a group of migrants moving up from Central America towards the border with the U.S.
Thank you for telling me that.
I appreciate it.
Why did you why did you characterize it as such?
Because I consider it an invasion.
You and I have a difference of opinion.
They're hundreds of miles away, though.
They're hundreds and hundreds of miles away.
That's not an invasion.
Honestly, I think you should let me run the country.
You run CNN.
All right.
And if you did it well, your ratings would be much better.
If I may ask one of the questions, Mr. President, if I may ask one of the questions, are you
worried?
That's enough.
That's enough.
I was going to ask one of the other folks.
That's enough.
Pardon me, ma'am.
Excuse me.
That's enough.
If I may ask on on the Russia investigation, are you concerned that that you may have
I'm not concerned about anything with you may have a certain investigation because it's
a hoax.
Are you?
That's enough.
Put down the mic.
Mr. President, are you worried about indictments coming down in this investigation?
Acosta was pretty aggressive in his questioning, but ultimately he did sit down and let someone
else have a turn.
The whole exchange lasted two minutes.
More important than Acosta's questioning was that Trump's answers were non-answers.
When Acosta calls him out on it, Trump pivots to insulting him instead.
The caravan was not an invasion.
It's a it's a group of migrants moving up from Central America towards the border
with the U.S.
Thank you for that.
And why did you why did you characterize it as such as I consider it an invasion?
You and I have a difference of opinion.
Do you think that saying we have a difference of opinion on what an invasion is is a bullshit
answer.
And both Trump and Acosta know it.
So Acosta pressed him on it, which is what journalists are supposed to do.
And speaking of rudeness, during that two minutes, Trump said that here we go, that
well, if you don't mind, Mr. President, that this could end.
Why?
Honestly, I think you should let me run the country.
You run CNN and if you did it well, your ratings, CNN should be ashamed of itself having you
working for them.
You are a rude, terrible person.
You shouldn't be working for CNN.
Now, whose behavior is unsuited to being at that press conference?
Nuance Bro also used some clips of Acosta shouting out questions at press events and
presents this idea that the press should sit quietly, wait their turn and be polite as
possible to the president.
When the president is lying to your face, calling you names and saying you're the enemy
of the people, I think the days of sitting politely and waiting for your turn are over.
This play to civility has been keeping the press docile for years and it's nice to
see that changing.
Nuance Bro's appeal to that is an appeal to a servile press that behaves in obedience
to the power structures in the government.
In other words, his appeal to nuance is an inherently right-wing stance.
But here I am again, defending CNN, from the supposed center no less.
How does this keep happening?
We need to talk about centrism, both the real and fake kind.
Before discussing political theory, I want to offer this disclaimer.
I am not an expert on the subject.
Although this comes from a basic understanding of political theory obtained from some light
reading and the forethought to ignore especially stupid commentators such as…
This is a graph of the left-right spectrum.
I know the two-dimensional graph is more popular nowadays, but for the purposes of this video
I want to focus on this one-dimensional one.
Since it was made by me, it is, of course, absolutely accurate in all ways without any
trace of flaw or imperfection.
People find themselves across plenty of different points on the spectrum determined by what
they believe on a variety of issues.
A centrist would exist in this middle area.
To land here, they would need to have a mix of right and left opinions that average out
to the middle ground.
Now before going on, I should mention this video isn't about people who happen to fall
into this region incidentally.
If that's where you are politically, you're probably wrong on a few issues, probably on
the right, but that's not what this video is about.
This video is about people who choose to be in the center.
People who make a purposeful effort to ensure that they balance both sides of a political
equation with a sense of fairness.
These are the centrists who are being played.
Now let's make this image more complicated by talking about the Overton window.
And no, I'm not talking about the shitty novel Glenn Beck wrote about two people who
start a make-out session by discussing the flat tax.
This book exists, do not read it.
The Overton window, a political science tool created by Joseph P. Overton, describes the
range of permissible political thought within a system.
It helps to think of the left-right spectrum as a much longer continuum than it is typically
presented as.
If we zoom out, the right and left we see in our world today can be understood more
broadly in the context of history, where we can move much further in either direction.
And generally speaking, throughout most of recent history, we've been moving to the
left.
If the Overton window is the current range of typical political discourse, it moves along
the spectrum, to the left or right.
So when we talk about taking a position in the center, it's a center that's defined
by the time and place you live in.
In other words, you're taking a position in the center of the Overton window.
But what happens when that window starts to move?
The original Overton window argued that politicians set the parameters for discourse, so when
Democrats tilt to the right to appeal to centrists, and Republicans go so far right they're appealing
to fascists, the window itself shifts to the right.
With the rise of the Tea Party in the aughts, to the embrace of nationalism in Donald Trump
this year, it's plain to see that right-wing ideology is on the ascent in the United States
within political discourse, albeit perhaps not in actual public opinion.
Here on YouTube, we've seen a surge in debates about race realism, ethno-states, anti-feminism,
and other toxic ideas, many of these ideas having long been consigned to the dustbin
of history.
But now they're making a comeback, broadening the conversation and trying to reintroduce
the ideas into our political discourse.
This alteration of our political discourse can stretch or outright push the Overton window
further right.
For those of us on the left, instead of debating more interesting topics or having to fight
for the protections of a free press from a president who doesn't like being asked
tough questions, but where does this leave the centrist?
Anyone who genuinely fell into the center should be starting to feel a bit more like
they're on the left.
Some of the ideals you claim to profess are currently under attack from the right, which
still has considerable power in the US government and, to be honest, a lot of governments around
the world right now.
But the committed centrist, who sees virtue in always taking the middle ground, they find
themselves being dragged along with the window, staying committed to seeing the virtue in
both sides, even if that means moving along with a side that is now becoming increasingly
hostile towards the values that this committed centrist supposedly held.
Their commitment lies in appearing thoughtful, weighing both sides of a situation.
The Acosta example is great.
The right to a free press is in the very text of the Constitution, and freedom of speech
is something we have heard about endlessly from these committed centrists.
But now it's being abandoned, all in an appeal to remaining a committed centrist and
trying to give credence to calls for civility from the Trump White House.
In Nuance Bro's case, he's supporting kicking journalists out of the press bowl because
they ask a few too many questions in a way that he doesn't consider respectful.
This is how the right is playing centrists, and dragging them further to the right under
the guise of remaining even-handed.
And while I finished really quickly with this one, so while you're still here, why not
like this video, or comment on it, or you can also follow me on Twitter, ask me a question
on Curious Cat.
If you really liked it, why not subscribe?
