Oh, dating is hard. Really hard. Especially for leftist soy boys like me, who have never
really touched a woman. But hey, my pal, Roaming Millennial has posted some great advice
for how to date an intersectional feminist. Not really, of course. This is actually just
a video of her talking shit about an intersectional feminist. In this case, it's a woman named
Lyra Witt, who wrote an article about questions an intersectional feminist should ask on a
first date. Before really getting into those questions, Roaming Millennial gives Lyra Witt's
Twitter account a shoutout with this. Wow, that looks bad. Even worse if you decide not
to look at the context. Instead, if you spend about one minute looking into it, you'll
see that this tweet is actually at the end of a tiny little thread commenting on a story about a
mixed race girl growing up in Ireland who was raised by white parents. It's a sad meditation
on the limitations of colorblindness, and how pretending race is irrelevant is something that
does a disservice to real discrimination. The idea is that living in a cloistered white world can
leave someone of mixed racial background unprepared for a world that will judge them on the basis of
their skin color. Now, I can't read Lyra Witt's mind, but I'm going to go out on a limb and say
that her tweet about killing all the white people was a cheeky swipe at the idea of whiteness as a
default identity disregarding the real discrimination people of color face. I managed to decode that
tricky bit of subtext by reading the actual text of what she wrote. And if you really want to ignore
that context, I'd like to point out that Lyra Witt has a white father and a white husband. Maybe
Roaming Millennial should try doing some basic research when bringing up a tweet in the video.
She can start by scrolling up slightly. Let's actually get to the meat of the article and
Roaming Millennials rebuttal. Number one, do you believe that black lives matter? Yes, wonderful.
Let's start here. There are three categories that are non-negotiables for me, an understanding of
race, class, and gender. I don't want to have to have laborious discussions where I have to prove
to someone that white privilege or not black privilege exists. If they are willing to learn
and listen and make the space to decenter their whiteness, if they're white, that's a good place
to start. People aren't debating whether black lives do in fact matter. People are debating whether
systemic racial injustice still exists. Is someone having a different opinion than you on the issue
really that much of a turnout that you need to find out their position right away on the first date
in order to screen them out? Okay, what Roaming Millennial isn't getting here is that her position
and brace herself here is one of privilege. It's easy to be a non-black person and respectfully
disagree with a friendly person who doesn't think that systemic anti-black racial discrimination
exists because you literally don't have any skin in the game. If you're an asshole, you might not
even care, I guess. But if you're someone who cares about injustice, systemic discrimination
might bother you. And this may be another shocker, but there are some people out there,
let's just call them intersectional feminists, who are passionate about fighting injustice.
And if that passionate person is black and someone who therefore faces that systemic discrimination,
they might not want to date someone who thinks they're delusional. Basically,
this first point is a simple test of empathy and Roaming Millennial failed.
Number two, what are your thoughts on gender and sexual orientation? The gender binary is a tiny
box and I wish it didn't exist, but it does. I can't imagine being with someone who is transphobic.
As a feminist and woman of color, it would be a betrayal of what I stand for. Okay, this is
something I see all the time and it bothers me. Believing in a gender binary is not the same thing
as being transphobic. It kind of is transphobic. Not only does Roaming Millennial betray her
ignorance on the subject, but she also denies the lived experience of people who fall outside the
gender binary. Telling someone they're just confused in the face of evidence to the contrary
is a pretty shitty thing to do. Oh, and since I know Roaming Millennial is such a lover of
science and learning, I've included a link to my favorite science YouTuber, Concordance,
and his video on binary gender. Maybe take 10 minutes out of your life and learn how to
uh not be a dick, basically. There's no way straight to say that one, never mind.
Number three, how do you work to dismantle sexism and misogyny in your life? I've met cishet men
who hate women. They say they love women, but that love is conditional on not having their
toxic masculinity questioned or threatened in any way. And they love us as a monolith. They love
what women have to offer, whether it is sex, food, love care, emotional labor. They love us for what
we can do for them, not because of who we are for ourselves. Wow, don't you hate it when men
make their love for women conditional based on a woman's worldview? Gee, isn't it awful when men
are only interested in women based on superficial aspects? Self-awareness, zero. I think she's saying
a worldview is superficial. I'm actually not sure what she's trying to say because it's hidden
under the weight of this terrible joke. She thinks she's caught the author in a bout of hypocrisy.
This is the point she's responding to. Witt is saying that an intersectional feminist
probably wouldn't want to date a guy who subscribes to toxic masculinity.
In fact, I'd wager a guest that most women wouldn't want to date a guy who subscribes to
toxic masculinity. This seems obvious and sensible to me, and you would think Roman
Millennial would have understood it, having read it out loud just a few moments before her
commentary, but no. She thinks having an ideology and criticizing someone else for having a different
one is somehow hypocritical. It actually isn't when the two ideologies are polar opposites.
You could even say they're conflicting. Also, an ideology is not superficial. It's actually the
exact opposite. Jesus Christ. Let's move on. I grew up with Jewish, Israeli, and non-Israeli
friends and Palestinian friends. Before even understanding how power and oppression work
together, we understood the trivial hatred that colonized and put in constant danger the lives of
Palestinians every single day. Being pro-Palestine is not the same thing as being anti-Semitic. I
shouldn't even have to express that, but being pro-Palestine and BDS is a necessary part of
intersectionality. You know, I get why people like this aren't big fans of Israeli, got the whole
colonialism, settler, military power thing going on, but I don't understand why they would choose
to identify themselves as being specifically pro-Palestine. Try going to Palestine and talking
about all this LGBTQ non-binary gender stuff. Okay, so what do the LGBT policies of Israel or
Palestine have to do with what Whit is talking about? Does Roman Millennial think we should ignore
people being oppressed by a colonial power because they aren't down with the LGBT community?
Is this her trying to use SJW logic against itself? She doesn't really understand how SJW
or regular logic seem to work in this case. And this is basically just what about-ism run amok,
and it won't be the last time we see this. Number six, what is your understanding of settler
colonialism and indigenous rights? I didn't grow up in the United States. I was raised in Switzerland,
so my understanding of how Europeans committed genocide against indigenous populations here in
the U.S. was fairly limited. It required a good deal of my own research to really understand how
settler colonialism works and how devastating the eraser and violence against Native Americans is
and was. Your date thinks Native Americans are tropes or relics of the past? No thanks. No one
thinks that. Just nobody. Okay, okay, this shit. She just kind of says that no one believes in it.
Right after reading a section where the author admits that she was someone who believed in it
until she was educated on the subject. Are you taking in anything you're actually reading here?
If they support the school-to-prison pipeline, then there's a good chance they'll only value you
for your ability to nurture them without any reciprocation. I feel like what she's actually
saying here is that people who support capitalism can't love their partners. Love is just for
communists. And what the fuck? Love is just for communists? How did you get that from the idea of
someone supporting school-to-prison pipelines not being very nurturing? Wow. Er, wait, wait.
Did Roman Millennial just say capitalists support the school-to-prison pipeline?
She just gave the game away. Hit it, boys.
Number eight. Can any human be illegal? We live on a tiny planet with land and water within a
galaxy surrounded by a universe with an inconceivable number of other galaxies and planets. Yet here we
dictate where we are and who is allowed to be where we are. Don't even know what she was trying
to say with that. It seems like there were contradictory statements in those two sentences.
The problem with this line is that it's slightly incongruent and probably could have been worded
more effectively had it focused on the vastness of the earth rather than the vastness of the
universe, which we can't really access. That's just me wearing my editor hat, of course. Roman
Millennial doesn't make any sort of commentary on that. What she's saying here is that she doesn't
understand that the contradiction here is the point. You know, there's lots of space, yet we're
saying where people can and can't be. Do you get it now? No? Okay. But whatever. It's just really
weird to me how she can claim that white Americans stole this land, yet that at the same time no one
should be allowed to dictate where other people are. You can't be mad at whites being in the U.S.
while also saying that all people should be able to come to the U.S. Do you not see the difference
between letting people freely travel and migrate around the world and how that's different from
colonizing a land and genociding the population? How do you not understand this?
Number nine. Do you support Muslim Americans and non-Muslim people from Islamic countries?
I can't think of any other religion which has been vilified and lied about more than Islam in
a cultural and systemic way. I am not Muslim, so I will stay in my lane, but I cannot imagine for
a second even claiming to be a feminist if I didn't stand in solidarity with my Muslim friends
and family. Guys, we need to make this plane ticket happen. I'm not even meaning right now.
Let's send her to Saudi Arabia, home of the two most holy sites in Islam. Let's do it, guys.
So, Roaming Millennial says she's not meme-ing, but I assume she is because she's a liar,
or at least disingenuous, or maybe she doesn't know what meme-ing is. She doesn't understand
most of what she's talking about. So, yeah, maybe that's it. Anyway, Saudi Arabia is oppressive.
What does that have to do with oppressing Muslim people in the U.S.? Does Roaming Millennial not
think this is happening? Or does she think it's less important than people being oppressed in
other countries? What about Islam strikes again? Also, read the title of point nine again.
Whit explicitly writes non-Muslim people in Islamic countries needing support too,
so she was speaking out against oppression in Saudi Arabia. I don't know. I'm not surprised
you missed it. You missed most of this article. We're not really learning anything responding
to her, so here's a fun fact. The term whataboutism was coined as a response to Soviets who refused
to talk about their country's misdeeds to focus on American ones. And if Roaming Millennial is using
Soviet tactics, we did it again, boys. We won.
Also, I'm not a tanky. Buddhist Stalinism, etc.
Number 10. Does your allyship include disabled folks? Be mindful of others who mock disabled
people. That kind of cruelty is inexcusable. On a date with someone who uses ableist slurs,
walk away. I don't think you should be cruel to disabled people. Don't think you should
be cruel to anybody, really. But I have the feeling that this person would probably qualify
using the word retarded to describe something that was not literally retarded as ableist,
which I don't agree with. Why can't she just agree with wit and move on? Does she really need to
make something up just to talk shit? Also, for the record, using that word to describe someone
or something is a shitty thing to do. There's nothing really here to engage with. She's just
like, it's okay to say it, and doesn't explain herself. You know, I'm actually starting to think
that this list existing is a good thing and that all intersexual feminists should follow it
so that people can know who you are and get out of there as quickly as possible.
That's a great line for a closer. This list was designed to screen up people exactly like
Roman Millennial. Very ironic. Personally, if I was on my first date ever and they brought up
how shitty this Roman Millennial video was, I'd be crushing on her pretty hard.
I'm feeling kind of down now. I mean, if I listen to Roman Millennial,
intersexual feminists may be too nutty to date. Or at least the ones who follow that list, right?
But you know what does Roman Millennial even know? She can't even read a damn article.
So I'll wrap this up and I guess I'm gonna be alone forever. Bye!
