the overturning of Roe v. Wade will make abortion dramatically more difficult to obtain in the
United States, and young conservative commentators are saying things like this.
These feminists are so upset because they can't murder their children,
they can't offer them out to Molech.
That's Elijah Shafer. On his show Slightly Offensive, part of the Blaze Media Network,
a right-wing media network founded in part by former Fox News firebrand Glenn Beck.
And that's just the tip of the iceberg on the sort of stuff Shafer says.
People think that Australia is great because it's an all-white country,
and it's just that's the only reason why it's good.
And I don't, you can say that that's white supremacists, no, it's just it's a homogenous
group of people with less population than there is in California and a landmass bigger than the
United States. They get along, they don't commit crime, they're clean, and they have a common,
they have a common group.
You think in the last days that you would refuse the mark of the beast,
but you wouldn't even sacrifice being judged by your friends to not get a vaccine?
Craving for baby's blood has never been stronger. And when you look at this woman before us,
nobody is forcing you to be a whore.
Shafer is a strange breed of conservative commentator. He has the opinions of a
middle-aged right-wing white evangelical from the 1980s, but the style of an alt-right shit
poster from the mid 2010s. He embodies an inherent hybrid of where right-wing commentary is heading,
taking elements from previous conservative movements and coalescing them into this new
style of commentary. To understand Shafer's quick ascent in the conservative commentary space,
we have to go back and understand the rise of the religious right in American politics.
Now, we could go back to the likes of Father Coughlin or Norman Vincent Peale,
but instead let's start at the religious right's rise in the 1970s,
particularly in its fight against abortion and its push for family values.
While it's commonly believed that popular opposition to abortion is what galvanized
religious people to flock to the right, Randall Balmer, the John Phillips professor in religion
at Dartmouth College, conducted some research that presents a different picture. Paul Weyrich,
a religious conservative political activist and co-founder of the Heritage Foundation,
was hoping to capitalize on evangelical voters who had been slowly voting more frequently for
the Republican Party following the end of World War II. Weyrich believed that if he could organize
them on a mass scale, they would become a powerful voting bloc. Writing in the mid-1970s, Weyrich said,
the new political philosophy must be defined by us conservatives in moral terms, packaged in
non-religious language and propagated throughout the country by our new coalition. When political
power is achieved, the moral majority will have the opportunity to recreate this great nation.
Weyrich believed that if he could convince the leadership of evangelical and fundamentalist
Christian leaders to advocate for conservative politicians, their congregations would all
dutifully follow them in lockstep. And he floated a number of issues in their direction to catch the
interest of religious folks with little success. Early on, this did include abortion. According to
Balmer's research, evangelical leadership was largely indifferent to abortion. For example,
evangelical leader Jerry Falwell's first anti-abortion sermon wasn't until 1978,
five years after the 1973 Roe v. Wade verdict made abortion legal in the United States.
There are also examples of various evangelical leaders expressing indifference or even tepid
support of abortion. The rejection of abortion on religious moral grounds is something that actually
came a little bit later. What finally captured the attention of evangelical leadership to become
more involved in politics, though, was the Green v. Connolly ruling, which affirmed that a private
school which practiced racial discrimination could not be eligible for a tax exemption.
This impacted quite infamously Bob Jones University, which was a whites-only school.
With tax-exempt status at risk, evangelical leadership was very quick to take the side of
Bob Jones University, reframing the issue of being a whites-only school as a question of
religious freedom. The school argued that since it didn't take any federal money, aside from not
paying taxes, they shouldn't be expected to follow the same rules as public schools.
This didn't hold up in court. Bob Jones University lost its tax-exempt status and thus lit a fire
under evangelical leadership, and they soon began working with Wayrock and his allies to create an
evangelical floating block. Only, racial discrimination wasn't quite popular enough in the 1970s, at least
when it came to advocating that in public, so they started exploring other options. In 1978,
a leaflet campaign in Minnesota by Catholic organizers was credited with getting anti-abortion
candidates both senate seats, as well as the governorship, unlike evangelicals, right when
Catholics had been fighting against abortion for years. Although abortion as an issue hadn't worked
a few years prior, this success led Wayrock and his allies to rethink the tactic, and they started
brainstorming how this issue could be sold to evangelicals. As a reminder, Roe v. Wade was
five years old at this point. Anti-abortion sermons started being delivered and propaganda
started being produced, such as the film series Whatever Happened to the Human Race? Here's a
clip from that thing. As public sentiment among evangelicals began to change, anti-abortion took
its place among other issues this newly christened, moral majority would champion, including anti-gay
laws, christian prayer in school, among other things that would be labeled as family values.
This block solidified during the 1980s, and in that time the religious right would become a force in
American politics, often behind some of the most conservative social policies. They were accepted
into the Republican party, and they refused to a number of different conservative policies.
The religious right's influence can be heavily felt in the George W. Bush presidency, where
professions of faith were common, including very strong overtures to religious right concerns,
such as teaching creationism or generally being opposed to same-sex marriage. In the early years
of the Obama presidency, the Tea Party movement was very much an inheritor of this Christian right
movement. Though certain parts of the overall package waned over the years, such as prayer
in schools, the fight against abortion remained constant, and affirmation to that cause is one
of many reasons that led evangelicals to support Donald Trump in his bid for the presidency.
And this leads us back to Elijah Schaeffer. He's relatively new to this scene,
but he's an inheritor of this same brand of Christian conservatism. Born in 1993, Schaeffer
entered the world of right-wing commentary in the mid-2018s in his mid-20s. His years before that
were a combination of homeschooling and private schools, eventually graduating from a Christian
university in California with a degree in molecular biology. Which is very strange,
considering he doesn't believe in macroevolution. That is, the change in organisms that leads to the
development of new species. His critiques against evolution really don't have any substance,
and he gets to this vague, unanswerable question about why man is here, as this should somehow
completely overturn all the evidence which he seems to believe he's made a thorough examination
in the face of countless scientists working over the centuries.
You may have noticed in that answer a lack of specificity. This is something you'll be
seeing a lot as we go through Schaeffer's work, rambling that seems to be leading to a point,
but never quite gets there before being derailed by something else. For example,
when responding to his thoughts about evolution, here's where it ends up.
I should mention at this point Schaeffer claimed to be sober at the time this supposed possession
happened, though it did involve a friend who was on drugs at the time. Schaeffer himself has a
history with psychedelics and other drugs that cause hallucinations. While I have no real insight
into what happened to Schaeffer here, and I'm certainly not a doctor, I'm going to be bold and
suggest that he may have been experiencing hallucinogenic persisting perception disorder,
a hallucinogenic experience which has been known to happen sometimes years after a person has taken
hallucinogenic drugs. Or there could be a number of other scientific explanations here for what's
happening, or of course it is possible his friend was possessed by a literal demon that made its way
into Schaeffer's body. Feel free to make up your own mind on which of these is the most likely
outcome. Schaeffer credits Ben Shapiro with inspiring him to start a right-wing podcast,
although he wanted his style to be a bit different. He considered Ben Shapiro to be inoffensive and
more far-right provocateurs such as Milo Yiannopoulos to be offensive, and he wanted himself to be
somewhere in the middle, hence the title of his show, Slightly Offensive. The first iteration
of his show seems to have been lost to time. From how he described it in interviews, it was a series
of studio-based opinion segments, not unlike his later work. Eventually this was reshaped into the
mid-2018 version that still, at least partially, exists on his YouTube channel, where he would
attend left-wing protests to interview people in an attempt to make them look ignorant. A tried and
true technique practiced by Lawrence Southern, Steven Crowder, and various other right-wing
commentators. Schaeffer's production quality was higher than usual for these street interviews
because of his background working in commercial production. The actual quality of the interviews
left something to be desired though, with Schaeffer often talking over, interrupting,
and editing people to make them look as silly as possible.
In a video published on June 29, 2018, Schaeffer interviewed people at a women's
march. One of those people was a woman named Angie, who was kind enough to speak to me about
the experience. Angie is
one of several people who were featured in this video, and she describes the
experience of the backlash that followed her appearance there.
Angie would run into Schaeffer a few days later at another protest.
I saw them kind of cornering an older lady who, and I could see that she was getting animated
talking to him, and so I walked over and I said, you know, don't talk to him. He's gonna, you know,
he's gonna make you a target on the internet, basically. He said, you know, he went into
reasonable mode. He was like, you know, we're just trying to get all perspectives. I'm asking
questions. You know, he said, I thought we had a really good conversation the other day.
And I know that I kind of went off, not in an aggressive way, but in a way that was like,
I don't understand how you can present yourself like this, and then switch to putting out content
that you know is going to generate violent, hateful reactions. He's like, I don't condone
any of that. And he was like, I'll say it to camera right now. And he did a direct to camera,
you know, appeal to people to not make violent threats and all of that. The video was uploaded
unedited to Shafer's YouTube channel, and Angie noticed that her child was visible in the shot
where she had confronted him. Angie DM'd Shafer asking him to take the video down to protect her
child's safety, which he did eventually do, but there was an interesting part of her interaction
with him. He tried to be very complimentary about, you know, how I'd spoken, you know, he said,
we didn't edit you, and I usually edit people, and you were well spoken, so we let your words
just stand for themselves. And then he asked if I would be willing to do an interview with him.
He was like, you know, people were really responding to you, you know, trying to
stroke my ego or something. To Elijah Shafer, all of these appearances seem more like a game,
an attempt to puff up his political side while trying to find foils on the other side he could
film himself verbally jousting against. Something that's antithetical to actual journalism that
purports itself to be genuinely trying to understand the motivations and opinions of people
attending a protest. Here's an example of Shafer saying just that on an episode of Tim Pool's
podcast. A lot of people grift and they use field reporting sort of there's this way to get in front
of the camera, and their ultimate goal is they want to be a host. This is very common, right? I
happen to have had a podcast before I went out on the field myself. It's always been coinciding.
My podcast has always been about what I see on the field. So there's sort of that duplicity.
He describes it a bit more clearly here and how he doesn't see this as a grift. A lot of people,
like I said, use reporting to get the job that they want because I think generals are made in
the trenches. I don't think that's a grift per se. The problem with his reasoning though is that,
particularly in these early videos, he's not actually doing real reporting. He's going out
with a political goal to make these people he disagrees with politically look stupid.
As a result, these protests are framed as random assemblies of people who don't particularly know
why they're there or what they believe and who are deeply confused about the world around them.
It's at odds with other types of protest coverage where you might get clips like this.
Them people who are out there when they go back in the morning to get us jobs, get us loans,
get us, give us access, give us a chance. If we don't get no economic justice, we're still going
to be in a situation that we're walking around and police are going to be able to do whatever
they want to do to us. Or maybe something like this. I think there's an issue with people thinking
that this is solely an American thing. It's not an American thing solely. White supremacy is
worldwide and we need to acknowledge that a lot of the foundations for white supremacy in America
are built in the UK. These are interviews with people who have genuinely and firmly held beliefs
and what's more they give you an understanding of why people are attending these protests and what
they're hoping to achieve. You still may not agree with them but at the very least you understand
where they're coming from. Shafer was not interested in producing this type of understanding
but rather videos he could use for mockery. The goal of these videos isn't to build a resume of
genuine reporting to lead to the job of talk show host but rather conservative theater dressed up
as journalism that would lead to a job spouting out propaganda to advance a right-wing agenda.
These protest videos were an immediate success and Shafer was quickly embraced by the world of
right-wing media particularly because as Shafer describes himself they were used to target a
younger audience which the right-wing traditionally struggled with. My mission now is to bring the
truth to expose the truth and to do it in a way that attracts young people. Shafer's overt professions
of faith were present throughout his work in the early parts of his career as well. This may very
well have put him on the radar of the religious right establishment, at least the part of that
establishment that works in media, and he soon found himself with a plum spot working for Glenn
Beck. Glenn Beck quite famously made a name for himself railing against Barack Obama during his
first presidential term. His rise in conservative media was speaking to the Christian right. Here's
an example from his restoring honor rally from 2010. America today begins to turn back to God.
And here's another interesting clip from 2008 that reveals the specific audience Glenn Beck is
speaking to. I get so much email on this and I think a lot of people do and I've only got a
couple of seconds. Odds that Barack Obama is the Antichrist. No chance. First let's take a moment
to applaud Glenn Beck for clearing the very low bar of saying that Barack Obama is not, in fact,
the Antichrist. But more important in that clip was him saying how often he had been asked that
question by his audience. This isn't a broad religious audience. He's cultivated, but rather
the conservative Christian audience that has been shaped from decades of propaganda, making them
tools of the Republican Party. One thing I should distinguish here is that Christianity in and of
itself is multifaceted with many denominations ascribing to a wide variety of political domains.
The group that follows and listens to the likes of Glenn Beck or Elijah Shafer, seeing their
Christianity reflected in their conservative activism, are a very specific subset that have
been cultivated and shaped by propaganda, making them the tools of conservative politicians.
Although it certainly is an interesting question as to how much of conservative politics is shaped
by the Christian right and vice versa, that's a bit outside the bounds for this video. Glenn Beck,
who faced a lot of outside pressure, including boycotts that negatively affected his advertising
at the time, eventually left Fox News, albeit ignoring an offer from the channel to keep him
on the air. Beck started his own media company, The Blaze, which would eventually become Blaze
Media in 2018 after a merger with Mark Levin's CRTV. The arrival of Blaze Media into Shafer's
career speaks to the institutional support right-wing figures such as himself have access to.
In the independent media space, it's a simple fact that the left is vastly underfunded,
particularly on YouTube. For every major operation, such as The Young Turks, you have Blaze Media,
The Daily Wire, and others who have multiple hosts and shows operating underneath them.
There are just way more opportunities on the right, with figures sometimes plucked from
obscurity and placed in positions of prominence, or for YouTubers who develop an audience and then
have their show folded into that network, with prominent examples being Steven Crowder,
Lauren Chen, and of course, Elijah Shafer. While working for Blaze Media, Shafer's profile would
continue to rise, perhaps most famously covering the Black Lives Matter protest throughout 2020.
His coverage was largely focused on spectacle more so than context and information. Though
Shafer did certainly conduct interviews, the stories that seemed to get the most play were
images of violence. This is where Shafer was ostensibly transitioning from someone who went
to protests to make people look stupid to reporting on the facts on the ground, though
he was often selective with the facts he chose to present. Here's how Shafer describes that
experience in an interview with Ali Beth Stuckey from 2021. It seemed that almost like God's hand
was on my life to put me in the worst situations possible, but to protect me. And here's one
specific incident they mention. The group of people nearly killing a man, splitting his head
open with the skateboard trucks and laughing and people spitting on him and then watching after they
broke. That was in Dallas. I think I remember this. This was a guy trying to defend a business
against the rioters with a machete and then the rioters basically bashed his head in until he
was unconscious, right? It's interesting how Stuckey provided the additional context here
because it mimics what went wrong with Shafer's coverage of this event. When Shafer posted this
video on Twitter in May of 2020, it showed a scene of about five or six people attacking a
man lying helpless on the ground while a dozen more stood around watching and shouting. I can't
play the clip because of YouTube's restrictions on violent footage, but it's linked below if you'd
like to check it out. The video was viewed 35 million times, and though there's some text
providing a bit of context, it's obviously positioned to portray this man as an innocent victim.
The narrative was pounced on by conservative media, eventually filtering its way up to President Trump.
Innocent people have been savagely beaten like the young man in Dallas, Texas who was left dying
on the street. About an hour and a half after this video was first posted, Shafer made another
tweet with a longer version of the video, where 18 additional seconds revealed that this beating
was immediately preceded by this man screaming while swinging a machete as he charged towards
the group that would eventually attack him. This video was viewed 3.7 million times. The second
tweet also reveals that he has no idea if this guy was the owner of the story he was supposedly
defending or even what his name is, but he does assure his audience that this man, who showed up
to protest with the machete, was not the instigator that night. Here's a statement on the event from
Dallas Police. According to witnesses, the individual who came to the protest wheeled on a large knife
slash machete at several protesters. An unknown protester was attempting to fight off this
individual by using his skateboard and was subsequently cut in the hand, but not before
disarming the individual. At this time, the crowd of protesters began assaulting the individual.
As mentioned, the individual with the large knife was taken to the hospital and was last reported to
be in stable condition. Neither the individual who was cut in the hand nor anyone in the way of the
knife-wielding individual have come forward to file the complaint. Another video taken at night
by a student, Yul Myasho, showed the event from another angle. Here's an excerpt from the
Intercept article that spoke to him. In a phone interview, Myasho said that he started recording
just after the man with the machete pulled it out and threatened the skateboarder who was slightly
ahead of the rest of the group. Myasho insisted that, although glass was broken at hatchways at
some point on Saturday night, there was no violence or looting of any kind when the man confronted the
skateboarder. A fuller examination of the facts revealed that this man with the machete to be less
an innocent victim and more active participant in escalating tensions that night. A flatter reading
of this situation might be that a man showed up to a Black Lives Matter protest brandishing a machete
in a threatening fashion. When protesters started throwing trash at him to get him to go away,
he instead decided to charge at them screaming while swinging around the machete. The protesters
responded by disarming him and then attacking him. It doesn't make any of what happened that night
right, but it does reveal that Shafer had a very specific agenda when he edited the footage to
remove that context. He very much wanted his audience to see Black Lives Matter protesters as
unthinking mindless vandals attacking helpless individuals who are trying to protect businesses,
eliminating any context that might present this individual as reckless and irresponsible.
Shafer's perspective appears to be colored by his own biases against the protesters and his own
personal conservative religious perspective. The way that they were pushing for everything
demonic to change their gender, to explore their sexuality, and the way that they expressed that
together of like, let's get together and let's do evil things. Let's hurt people. Let's kill people.
Let's steal things. Let's destroy things. I mean, there is no other way to describe the energy there
than purely satanic from hell. Here's another story Shafer mentioned in this interview. You
know, someone had just put a gun into my face and I think the gun jammed or they pulled the
trigger and it's on footage. This footage of someone apparently trying to murder Shafer
can be found on his Twitter account in a five second clip he posted. What do we do? That's right.
Whoa, that's right, man. It's hard to really know what's going on with five seconds taken out of
what was likely a much longer day of filming, but let's deal with the obvious problem here.
Pointing a gun at someone, even an unloaded one, is incredibly reckless and should not be condoned.
Regardless of what anyone might think of Shafer and what he's arrived to do there,
pointing a gun at the guy is clearly out of bounds. I would like to note that this irresponsible
behavior, though, doesn't quite match how Shafer presented it in the interview. Even though it was
reckless, it does appear to have been done for dramatic effect and doesn't really seem like
someone is trying to kill him. Shafer himself even said as much when speaking to Fox News at the time.
I don't think he pointed the gun at me to try to kill me. I think he was one of the stupidest people
in the world. In a video posted four days after those comments were published, he said this to
Mark Levin. All I can credit is God for that. I'm really true. I'm not trying to be a martyr here.
I'm not saying I'm special. I'm not saying I actually was going to die. But the fact that as
we just saw last night, it's very, very probable and possible that you can die at these things.
This is a pattern with much of Shafer's reporting. Footage, often very heavily edited,
is presented in a deliberate effort to frame protesters as violent or dangerous.
And the story is less about the reasons for violence at these demonstrations and instead
Shafer inserting himself into the narrative as a victim. He is showing up to these protests,
not as a neutral presence, but as someone who is being targeted by the left and therefore
their opposition. That group right there that was assaulting me with their camera that was coming
up to me. This is all very ironic because as much as he may talk about how dangerous violence from
protesters are, he does describe the most debilitating injury he got as being not from
left wing protesters, but rather the police. Department of Homeland Security is the one who's
hurt me the worst, not actually Antifa. What was the situation? It was at the federal courthouse
and they just shot with a gas powered like point blank with a like whatever flash being in my
shin and just cracked open my shin. It's strange how he fixates on the left being dangerous and
out of control. But when the police injure him, that doesn't lead to any thought about how heavily
armed the police are and the way in which they deploy that force against unarmed people.
By framing himself as a victim, Shafer is vilifying the left, something he was doing
in his earlier work as well. Contriving conversations to make protesters look bad
just turned into making himself a victim, also to vilify the protesters. And while there might be
an interesting conversation as to how we understand violence that happens at demonstrations,
or how some people who attend protests may not have the best or most well thought out takes,
the issue I really want to focus on is that Shafer is clearly and obviously operating with
an agenda. He is not a neutral journalist or reporter in any sense of the word, he is showing
up to be a propagandist. And this is very explicitly a religious political operation for him.
The narratives that have been given to the people in the church are progressive narratives,
they come from Satan, they're from the mouth of Beezlebug himself. And if you still somehow think
Shafer is acting like a journalist, here he is on his show describing why he highlights
specific footage of people at protests. Well, people say, well, why do you film these people?
It is genuinely to publicly mock them. And it is because it works.
Mockery is the point. This isn't journalism, it's propaganda.
There was one notable exception in Shafer's career though, when he quite famously attended
the January 6th Capitol riot where hundreds of Trump supporters broke into the Capitol building
in an effort to overturn the democratic election of Joe Biden. At the time, Shafer seemed almost
jubilant, as he described it as a revolution in progress, and he took some heat for photographing
a computer screen in Nancy Pelosi's office. At the time, Shafer did have some less than comforting
words for Trump supporters. The Trump supporters that are denying that Trump supporters could do
this, I mean, have you not heard the sentiments from people who follow Trump? I mean, they are
pissed, they are upset. I made a whole video on Tucker Carlson's Patriot Purge series,
but I want to highlight one section where Shafer appears. This time, his tone towards
Trump supporters has changed a bit. January 6th was just, you know, mom and dad who were mad
about what they saw to be an election that they thought was unfair, rigged, fortified, stolen. It
doesn't matter what you say it is, they were just angry and a lot of them just got caught up in the
front lines of chaos. They thought that rioting was like a game, maybe. Supposedly, the violence
of January 6th is excused as manipulation by the FBI of innocent Trump supporters, but violence
at a BLM protest is some kind of demonic presence on earth. Throughout 2020 and 2021, Shafer
transitioned to doing more in-studio work, hosting Slightly Offensive and You Are Here,
with the latter being co-hosted by right-wing commentator Sydney Watson. This part of Shafer's
career starts to get really nasty, and he spends less time on the illusion of grappling with the
idea of his political opponents and instead mocking their appearance. They cut their breasts off,
they have scars, they all look like Hillary Clinton after she lost another election,
butch haircuts, depression in the eyes, and you just go, man, if you were living a life
that led to wholeness, why do you look like that? Many of his videos include moments like that,
picking out random people, often videos circulated by the ellipse of TikTok Twitter account,
which he notes as a friend of his, and mocking their appearance. Here's another example.
I love that we all got to go to the zoo for free today. You saw a couple of hippopotamuses and then
an elephant in the beginning. It always is the women who are incapable of naturally getting
impregnated that have the most complaints about abortion. Much of his content is just this vicious
bullying of random people on the internet with no real power. At this point in his career,
it's the main tool Shafer uses, although there is an alternative he mentions. Somebody asked me,
they think the only other alternative is like violence. So it's like you could either A,
mock the people or B, kill them. And I'm going to say there's two options. One of them is illegal
and you'll go to prison. The other one, you get to have a show and you get to collect Barbies.
So, you know, I take, I'll take the first one in the moment and I try to avoid the violence
for as long as possible in life. It's kind of him to say he's willing to avoid violence
for the moment. And this brings us to Kyle Rittenhouse. Rittenhouse and Shafer are bros,
and Shafer quite infamously interviewed Rittenhouse shortly before he killed two men and wounded
another at a BLM demonstration. And afterwards, he was quickly branded a conservative hero.
After Rittenhouse was found not guilty of murder, he appeared on Shafer's You Are Here show
for a conversation that can be described as very friendly. This interview is not an easy watch,
largely because there's far too much discussion about all the women Rittenhouse wants to have sex
with. The main purpose, though, is summed up by Shafer here. Just it's just cool to know,
though, that you are a real person, that you're not a meme. Shafer wanted to humanize Rittenhouse,
to reaffirm to his far right audience that in spite of the fact that Rittenhouse will supposedly
claim to support BLM, at the end of the day, Rittenhouse is one of their guys, a tool to be
wielded against the left, because he's willing to use violence against their political opposition.
It's why another running theme through this interview is the jovial celebration of the
violence committed by Rittenhouse. And you were armed, and unlike some people that that that
fateful night, they didn't listen to the directions of somebody with a firearm, but I was smart
enough. And when I mention Shafer having a far right audience, this will become increasingly
clear as we examine the topics and talking points that he uses. The right wing embrace of Rittenhouse
is not a product of someone acting in self defense in and of itself, but rather for taking violent
action against political opposition. Had Rittenhouse been, as is often framed, defending himself in a
completely different setting with no political dimension, say the parking lot of them all, I
suspect he would not be so readily embraced by the right wing. The fact that he was defending himself
in the midst of a Black Lives Matter protest against those who were on that particular side
of the political divide is precisely why he's heralded as a hero. It's about normalizing
violence against the political opposition. Elijah Shafer is, as I've hopefully demonstrated at this
point, a religious ideologue who will tacitly endorse violence against his opposition, from
celebrating Kyle Rittenhouse to creating a false dichotomy of mockery or violence, to casting his
opponents as literal demons. The implication is the same. The other side of the political spectrum
is deserving of violence, and should be seen as inherently evil. He's not explicitly saying
people should be violently attacked, but he understands and sympathizes with that approach,
and he might even call you a hero if you do it. But there's more to this guy than religiously
motivated violence. He also has some issues with the LGBT community. Here he is making what I
assume are jokes. I can't speak for the gay community myself, but I am offended on behalf
of anyone who enjoys comedy for that exchange. These jokes aren't entirely stylistic, though.
Shafer uses humor much in the way the alt-right used irony and sarcasm to mask their true intent,
and charismatically attract a younger audience who appreciate edgy jokes, even if it's more edge
than joke. I don't know if this is a deliberate tactic Shafer is using, or if it's just his brand
of humor, but it does explain his success regardless. Painful attempts at homophobic humor
aside, and there are countless jokes Shafer makes about being gay, he does eventually let slip what
his real concerns are. Thirteen-year-olds like this guy he would argue should look at porn, and so
what's the difference of looking at porn or getting involved in a sexual confrontation with
an adult online, and I think that they're planning ahead decades so that they can have sex with kids
in the metaverse? That's where I think we're headed. They, whoever they are, are playing a
very long game by normalizing pedophilia now so they can have sex with kids in the metaverse
in the future. The logic of this plan escapes me, as it's weird that these supposed groomers are
expecting to still be virile enough 30 years into the future. This is an example of how Shafer
analyzes the news. He connects a vague fear of big tech with a groomer conspiracy theory to shape
nonsensical narratives, narratives that are very evocative of old Christian conservative arguments.
The groomer narrative that has been so popular on the right lately has been something Shafer has
been exposing for a while. Here he is talking about it in 2021. Even with the gay pride stuff,
originally it was like dude don't you just want gay people to be able to do what they want to do
in their closet? And you're like okay fine go ahead and then now it's like yeah if you want
them to have sex with your kid you're the bigot. None of these ideas are new and Shafer's opinions
are just regurgitated right-wing propaganda. This same rhetoric was used to attack the gay
community for decades. Here's an example from 1961's Boys Beware. Jimmy didn't know was that
Ralph was sick. A sickness that was not visible like smallpox but no less dangerous and contagious.
A sickness of the mind. You see Ralph was a homosexual. A person who demands an intimate
relationship with members of their own sex. 60 years later the message is the same. People outside
the cis heterosexual category should be considered dangerous. Here are some examples of Shafer's
rhetoric getting even more extreme. They want what they cannot have or the last bastion besides
forcibly raping and killing the kids while you have sex with them which is eventually where they
want to go right. And in this very video he ends with a particularly chilly note. You want me to
say your pronouns? Ask me if I care if you died today. I literally don't care. You could literally
get hit by a bus and the world would be boom. And here he is being even more explicit responding
to a video that discusses how to use more inclusive language to describe intersex people.
My advice is to use language that focuses on function and not just form. That means focusing
on the actual function that you're talking about such as people who can get pregnant,
people who can get other people pregnant, people who are at risk of testicular cancer and so on
and so forth. Where's Kyle Rittenhouse when you need him? You know that's all when I watch these
people I have no other thoughts. You are to me a potential child molester and you are a
child predator. You are a threat and threats need to be neutralized. Yeah and we don't advocate
for killing people. I mean Drew Hernandez immediately has to help Shafer walk back these
comments. Though saying someone needs to be neutralized has a pretty clear implication.
Elijah Shafer thinks trans and non-binary people's lives aren't worth caring about
and if they make their identities visible around children they should be, in his words, neutralized.
What makes all of this moral panic so unconvincing is how it fixates on members of the LGBT community.
Overwhelmingly, child predators are straight and cisgender. Something that's obviously true when
you consider the relative size of populations being discussed. If discussions of sexuality around
children marks someone as a groomer, most of the efforts should be focused on stopping straight
cisgender people from mentioning their sexuality around children. Never mind, gender identity is
actually distinct from sexuality and is relatively harmless when being discussed around anybody.
But of course there is no discussion around displays of heterosexual sexuality around children
because this was never about protecting children. It was about demonizing trans and non-binary
people the same way it was used and continues to be used against gay people. The religious right
has long been a political adversary to the LGBT community and Shafer is once again perfectly
happy to take up that cause, even endorsing violence on the basis of a lie. This isn't the
only community Shafer has a problem with though. For example, he quite infamously tweeted this out,
I despise the Chinese so much because I was with them my whole life. We always had exchange
students. Even as an adult, my roommates were rich Chinese pretending to care about education.
I know what few will admit. They are our enemies. It's competition. You're the dumb one.
This tweet was deleted but he still has several up clarifying his position.
Chinese citizens rape our system to use it against us. Sorry the haters don't realize this.
They admit this to me. Only Twitter people pretend this isn't true. Americans who are Asian are my
friend but CCP funded plants are not. I'm aware of the difference and don't care about your
political correctness. Our nations are at war and I'm not playing nice. There were several other
tweets like this and I hope those were clear enough. This goes beyond being opposed to the
government of China and extends that opposition to all Chinese nationals. Shafer sees them as
enemies as if every Chinese person is an unthinking pawn of their government and no
independent thought exists there in a country of over one billion people. There's no other way
to see this than bigotry against the Chinese but this is a bit more insidious than that as we look
deeper into Shafer's comments on immigration because it gets at the heart of another issue
he's talking about. That he's very concerned that the United States of America is becoming less white.
Here's a clip of him expressing that in a 2021 video on Tim Pool's podcast.
One thing that I can agree with critical race theory on is they do say that America was made
by white people for white people and I've read the documents and before 1965 it specifically
states like for our posterity when the immigration laws were changed when we had this similar
biosphere and there was there was this majority of people in every nation whether it's religion,
race, it's culture, there has to be shared value and we were sold this future for America which
was a total scam and I believe had communist influence. What Shafer is referring to here is
the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, a topic that is very much a pain point among
white nationalists. This federal law abolished quotas on immigration that were established in
the 1920s which were designed to maintain a specific ethnic diversity of the country.
In other words the law Shafer so upset about was done to counter another law that was explicitly
racist which was designed to keep non-white people from immigrating to the United States.
Shafer favors a law that ensures the country remains overwhelmingly white which means that
particular group would hold all the political power. This is I think quite obviously a white
nationalist talking point. In this conversation Shafer tries to deflect this obviously racist
point he's making to claim he's worried about some kind of communist plot to overthrow the
country. This conspiracy theory is a rambling mess that doesn't really make sense. Eventually Shafer
gets called out by Tim Poole for making a racist argument and I can't believe I just said that.
Number one reason why I'm saying why expats don't fit in is because in America it's seen as being
really great to share your political views you actually are like seen as sort of being brave
and in Japan you will be ostracized. There's a word for that. They're racist. Well how is that
racism if Japan is literally racist they're an ethno state and they do not they they don't. How
is that racism of a homogeneous Japanese culture wanting to preserve a certain ethnic group? About
a year later we see more of Shafer's thoughts on immigration describing security at the border.
Like like the border situation right we can't figure out what to do with people catch and release
title 42. We don't know what's going on like it is hard to know what to do but in the end there
has been situations where people have taken a similar approach they got the shit beat out of
them like knocked out hypothetically so you get beat up you get shot or whatever. I don't know if
that's the solution and if it's on YouTube and you look it up but it's also the fact is that some
people have taken that approach of like just going to violence and to be honest it worked.
The comfort Shafer has with discussing violence this time referring to people crossing the border
illegally is worrying but of course it doesn't end there. Shafer has a history of sharing white
nationalist memes like this one below using the black sun symbol a symbol by the way which was
used by the recent racist massed shooter in buffalo who deliberately targeted black people.
More than sharing memes and talking points Shafer has made other overtures to the extreme far right.
Anytime slander comes from the media I'm like that person is probably cool like hey
that's a that's a nazi I'm like let me go speak to which brings us to Elijah Shafer's on air
conversations with Nick Fuentes. If you're not familiar with the name I recommend this video
from Mildred of the Goo Realm who details how Nick Fuentes pushes fascism from his weird
little corner of the internet into the mainstream. Fuentes had a YouTube channel until it was banned
for hate speech and this article has a helpful comment on Fuentes's view on white nationalism.
The reason I wouldn't call myself a white nationalist it's not because I don't see
the necessity for white people to have a homeland and for white people to have a country
it's because I think that kind of terminology is used almost exclusively by the left into fame and
I think the terminology and the labels that we use I don't think that we can look at them outside of
the context of their connotations in America. Fuentes very deliberately and carefully crafts
his image to be as far right as possible while still having a degree of plausible deniability
or at least plausible to anyone who isn't paying close attention to the fascism he's obviously
trying to push. One notable moment in Fuentes's career was when he decided to ambush Ben Shapiro
in the middle of the street when he was with his family and while anyone familiar with this channel
knows I have no love for Ben Shapiro aside from his wonderful fiction about political correctness
leading to a nuclear bomb going off I do think it's incredibly disrespectful and gross to confront
him and put his family including his children on camera. Although certainly not the worst thing
Fuentes has ever done I wanted to bring it up because his cameraman that day happened to be
Elijah Shafer. And that footage that we just saw that interaction with Ben I happen to have filmed
and I guess this means that we have a history of being around the same circles. What's interesting
about this interview is not just that Shafer is having a friendly chat with a white nationalist
but that he has actively participated in something Fuentes has been very vocal about with his tactics
finding ways to soften his extreme rhetoric to make it more appealing to a wide audience.
Shafer interviewed Fuentes twice that day once on his slightly offensive show and then
on You Are Here. The You Are Here one is a bit tough to watch as Shafer's co-host Sydney Watson
makes it clear she had never heard of Fuentes and she seems a bit shaken by some of his opinions.
The old world the old way of doing things. Women don't drive don't vote type of thing or something
like that I mean approximating like Saudi Arabia I don't think they're too far off the mark. I mean
you could potentially go and live in Saudi Arabia then. Watson is not up to the task of pushing back
in a meaningful way against Fuentes even when he's talking about taking away all of her rights
and towards the end of the interview she says this. It's really funny people are like Sydney's
really triggered and I'm honestly just sitting here just listening and just you know getting a
feel for things but I was saying to Elijah it's interesting I think you're being very respectful
and it's and I think that's really nice because people make you out to be this you know assassin
that's going to just stab everybody in the face. So while Fuentes may want to turn her into a
second-class citizen reducing her to an incubator for children Watson appreciates that he's at least
willing to have a civil conversation about it so that's lovely. Shafer takes the opposite approach
not in that he more aggressively pushes back against Fuentes so much as he's interested in
coaching him. Here's a quick example you know 3.8 billion dollars per year for Israel and and all
of this you know how how can you really say you're America first if you're so fixated on the benefit
of another country and she would. Can I ask you a question there though before you even give her
answer is like so when you say this this is where a lot of people I think get turned off even these
kind of questions because obviously I know where this is headed is like was your was your question
just on foreign aid in general or did you see something like I could question a foreign aid
but not to this country. This is a very astute place to cut Fuentes off what could have turned
into a very anti-Semitic rant is quickly reframed to sound like Fuentes is just concerned about
foreign aid as if there's nothing about Israel or the Jewish people Fuentes has a problem with.
The briefest of glances into Fuentes's history reveals numerous anti-Semitic statements and
beliefs it's almost trivial to find clips of him jokingly denying the Holocaust or saying the
Jewish people aren't part of western civilization or how he has concerns over Jewish power and while
I'm citing this ADL article to demonstrate Fuentes's anti-Semitic past Shafer himself actually pulled
it up during his interview with Fuentes and addressed it like this. There's nowhere like
here's where Nick Fuentes beat up a black guy and said the n-word like there's nothing like this
it's just these these ideas like he wants to fight against transgenderism like well I do too
so and then everyone watching this is like yeah yeah you know it's that's cool then they go Fuentes
has used his platform to make numerous anti-Semitic and racist comments so you didn't do anything
racist or anti-Semitic you made jokes in here and said some things you said some bad things
apparently according to these standards I'm just saying what it says. It's really something
watching Shafer in real time not actually engaging with any of the evidence cited but gently
hand waving it away given his audience the impression that he's providing a rebuttal
the incredibly racist and anti-Semitic jokes aren't considered racist because Fuentes didn't
literally beat up a black guy while shouting the n-word also they aren't jokes here's a tweet
Fuentes makes that Shafer doesn't acknowledge at all any serious person thinking about globalization
and demographic changes should actually care a lot about racial differences in intelligence
but this subject doesn't interest you because it's not convenient for your Trojan horse brand of
kosher nationalism that's not a joke and neither is this comment from Shafer wants to preserve
white identity I guess in some way and Christianity which is like not very extreme ideas these are
just like it's just apolitical ideology it's one of many that are out there right calling Fuentes's
ideas which are white nationalist ideas one of many is certainly true personally I would
consider someone tried to make America more like Saudi Arabia including take away the rights of
women to be fairly extreme Fuentes is a fascist but this coaching isn't just for the benefit of
Fuentes it also helps train his audience as well I'm going to play a short clip from the podcast
I Don't Speak German that went over this very interaction the voice you'll be hearing is from
one of its co-hosts Jack Graham the job is educating the audience in how you say these
things now it's it's like an it's like a course in not just the the ideology but in the how you
present that ideology aesthetically now if you listen to enough of this stuff you imbibe this
you learn how to say it I spend a lot of time going over Elijah Shafer in this video and well
yeah I think he sucks I also want to highlight how his success is not purely a product of his
own talents he was discovered by people with far more power than he and then given a platform to
broadcast his beliefs because those are the sorts of beliefs that these people want to shape the
public discourse as for who they are in this case he was hired by religious conservative Glenn Beck
who rose to prominence because he tapped into a religious rights anti-left-wing sentiment
something that was cultivated over decades by conservative politics Elijah Shafer will not be
the last of these guys to appear this is a system designed to weaponize religious conservatism
against the left and to advance a broader right-wing agenda it's one that's dependent on bringing in
voices who espouse a specific worldview and then networking together to overall push this greater
message of religious conservatism and what Shafer might be learning now is that that system
doesn't care about him it just finds him useful while I was working on this video Shafer's co-host
on You Are Here Sydney Watson decided to leave the show while Watson will continue on with Blaize
Media it seems she will not be working alongside Shafer anymore Shafer's reaction on twitter was
not great shortly afterwards Shafer made a tweet about Mormons Mormons are not Christians very nice
people love them much of my family are LDS but they are going to hell not followers of truth
makes me sad but can't deny the gospel I struggle in many ways too so can't condemn
but can't pretend their faith isn't already condemned this got a response from Elijah
Shafer's very Mormon boss Glen Beck Elijah thank goodness you know the truth assuming I'm one of
the many nice people who the Lord has made clear to you is condemned I just need to know if you
still want a guy who is going to hell as a mentor Shafer effectively doubled down on his initial
tweet and I can't imagine saying your boss is going to hell is the best career move but this
isn't new for Shafer he's spoken many times about how he's gotten in trouble for comments in the
past and how he ruffles feathers with his brazen attitude he even has this habit of making these
really sad comments about how he's all alone and has lost so many of his friends yeah and now I have
like one friend and it's Pamela Anderson my life that she gives me pleasure about but no but I just
meant genuinely as a joke like I was like I've just I've lost pretty much everybody in the last
year and I you know so I'm just where I'm at now it's just me in my little home studio and here we
are but but the my slightly offensive like absolutely killing it and all my social like
everything's just growing and doing well so like I'm like I've never been doing better financially
Shafer has some skill in the game he's playing but maybe it's not enough to create a meaningful
career and maybe he'll burn out a few short years after starting and then he'll be replaced by the
next guy willing to say and do all the things Shafer does though perhaps not quite as earnestly
after all it's not about the influencers it's about maintaining that system of power that is
animated in part by Christian nationalism and that system of power was never built for the
people at the very bottom but rather the people at the very top this video could not have been
completed without the very helpful assistance of Daniel Harper the other co-host of the I Don't
Speak German podcast I highly recommend it they've done several videos touching on people like Shafer
but they specialize on a lot of far right figures shedding light on some really dark disturbing
corners of the internet so if you enjoy those sorts of videos uh about those kinds of topics
on my channel I very much recommend checking out their podcast it's really well done and has a lot
of information you often won't be hearing anywhere else if you'd like to see more videos like this
on this channel you can join my patreon where you'll get your name and the credits early access
to videos download links to my theme songs and maybe I'll even answer one of your questions
in an upcoming video if you'd like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion you can
of course like comment subscribe and hit the bell for notifications that last one is actually pretty
important so make sure you hit that bell thank you everyone so much for watching
