The Overton Window is what happens when you cross a bland political thriller with the
ravings of a conspiracy theorist.
It's cynical, lazy, and a complete waste of time.
It's also a complete grift.
It probably won't convince anyone new with its paranoid premise, but it does comfortably
remind believers that, yes, their country can only be saved by their love of America
and guns.
To understand this book, we have to go back to when it was published, 2010, and remind
ourselves of the phenomena that was Glenn Beck.
Glenn Beck really used to be somebody.
He still technically is, but back then he was a really big deal.
A former radio personality, Glenn Beck's start in the cable TV news world was in 2006
on CNN's Headline News Channel.
By 2008 he had made the jump to Fox News, and within a few years he had become one of
the hottest shows on cable news.
He had several best-selling books to his name, and he was the spiritual leader of the new
Tea Party movement.
Glenn Beck's specialty was reciting facts, drawing lines, connecting them on a chalkboard,
and expressing deep concern that these things might be connected.
Glenn's rants were filled with things the right hates and fears, randomly bundled together
in an hour of rage and tears.
And I do mean literal tears.
And I don't bring this up to mock Glenn, there's actually nothing wrong with a grown man crying.
Instead I'm going to use this to illustrate what he does with these tears.
He sells emotions hard, and his generally pleasant demeanor makes him easy to empathize
with.
And once you start empathizing with this sad crying man, you're ready to turn on those
mean things that made him cry.
And what are those mean things?
This image sums it up nicely.
There's something about the expression on Glenn's face here.
He has pictures of various people underneath the watchful gaze of Chairman Mao, and he
looks at us in confusion-ness if to say, what aren't you people getting about how obvious
this is?
It's something that seems silly if it's just thrown out at you in a random video like
this one, but if you'd just been having a cry with this guy, you'd be far more sympathetic
to this bizarre image and you might actually sit down and listen to his ravines and might
even give it some credence.
He's using those emotions as a way of manipulating you.
He also had this thing where he kept calling everything a Nazi, particularly if they were
working for the Obama administration.
The content of Glenn Beck's rantings, or as much content as could be found, was about
an impending doom brought on by the out-of-control spending of the Obama administration.
The debt would, according to Beck, herald the end of the country and the collapse of
American life as we know it.
So he sounded off every night to his loyal followers, becoming a major figure in the
Tea Party movement.
The Tea Party movement was ostensibly a group of concerned American citizens who were very
much bothered by the increasing debt and out-of-control spending of the US government.
We sometimes forget about the Tea Party, but 10 years ago they were responsible for a major
shift to the right in the Republican Party, a shift that we're still feeling today, a
shift that's included more tax cuts for the wealthy, cuts to welfare programs, and a general
hostility to even the mildest forms of expanding the social safety net.
Glenn Beck was deeply connected to this audience, the same audience that would sneer at the
Republican establishment, ignore the criticisms of the mainstream media, and embraced a conman
posing as an outsider promising to tear down the system.
It would be unfair to say this all started 10 years ago exactly, but in this book, The
Overton Window, we have a wonderful symbol of the right-wing populism that was becoming
more mainstream back in 2010.
This novel takes its title from the concept of the Overton Window, created by Joseph P.
Overton.
The window describes a range of acceptable political thought within society at any given
time.
It's tied along a number of different dimensions, like the scope of left and right-wing politics,
but Glenn Beck prefers its original definition, describing the range of freedom within a society.
This book was preceded by a ridiculous trailer that uses the lines from a Rudyard Kipling
poem titled The Gods of the Copybook Headings.
The poem is referenced several times throughout the novel, and has a degree of thematic resonance
within it.
As surely as fire will burn, the gods of the copybook headings, with terror and slaughter
return.
The Overton Window.
That trailer is just… wow.
I've never seen a book trailer quite like that one.
To be honest though, I don't see many trailers for books at all.
Before we dive into the narrative though, there are two things we need to look at.
First, this cover.
At first glance, the image of the Statue of Liberty looking towards the horizon seems
bland and uninspired, but if we zoom in on the statue's body you can tell it's much
more jacked than the original, and you can even see a bit of a beard as the statue very
politely turns their head back towards us.
For some reason, the Statue of Liberty is a man, and he's holding some kind of weapon,
I think, instead of the usual stone tablets.
This wasn't the only cover that was being considered.
Glenn posted a number of options on his website, and held a poll to pick out the winner.
The cover chosen came in fourth… out of four.
Inside the book itself, we get a little note from the author before the narrative starts,
and oh boy, does the opening paragraphs at the stage for what's wrong with this book.
I'm going to channel my inner Glenn Beck here.
I've been a fan of thrillers for many years.
While non-fiction books aim to enlighten the goal of most thrillers is to entertain.
But there is a category of novels that do both… faction.
Completely fictional books with plots rooted in fact, and that is the category I strive
for with the Overton Window.
Okay, so first off, novels have been more than entertainment since they were created,
and second of all, we've had novels set in the real world plenty of times.
I'm not sure why Glenn feels the need to invent a new word here, but let's stop to
appreciate the one he came up with.
Faction?
First of all, faction is already a word, but I'm pretty sure he wants it pronounced FACT-tion.
This invented word does not bode well for the rest of this book.
The rest of the note reads like classic Glenn Beck paranoia.
He expertly gets so close to the line of outright proclaiming there's a conspiracy afoot,
and then immediately walks it back, winking over his shoulder.
Here's a prime example.
But while many of the facts embedded in the plot are true, see the afterword for details,
the scenarios I create as a result of those facts, along with the way things are tied
together and the conclusions that are drawn, are entirely fictional.
Let's hope they stay that way.
Glenn lets us know that this book is complete fiction, and that he's just tried to warn
us of something that is definitely not real, but it could be.
And people say he's crazy for saying this could be true, and he's not saying that,
but it could be.
And I hope you can all see how this little game works.
Get as close to the ridiculous line as you can, and you'll attract an audience willing
to take that extra step in their minds, leaving you ostensibly blameless.
Now let's dive into the story itself.
Noah is a 28-year-old VP in a PR firm run by his father, Arthur.
Here's how the book describes Noah.
Good looking, great job, fine education, puckishly amusing, and even clever when he put his mind
to it.
Reasonably fit and trim for an office jockey, Noah had all the bona fide credentials for
a killer e-harmony profile.
Who could resist?
Well I'll tell you who.
The new girl working in the mail room who catches Noah's eye, a southern woman named
Molly Ross.
You can tell she's one of the book's heroes because, like only the most virtuous
women in their 20s, she's hanging up flyers for her American Patriots group meeting for
that evening.
They call themselves, and I wish I was making this up, the Founders Keepers.
Thankfully, the opposition isn't called something even stupider like Losers Reapers.
Molly toys with Noah in exchanges like this one.
For context, Noah has just said he'd be headed for the meeting Molly was posting flyers
for.
That reminds me of the joke, Molly said.
Noah comes home, Noah from the Bible, you know?
He nodded.
So Noah comes home after he finally got all the animals into the ark and his wife asks
him what he's been doing all week.
Do you know what he said to her?
No, tell me.
Molly patted him on the cheek, pulled his face a little closer.
He said, honey, now I heard everything.
This is how the whole book is written.
So Molly is a tough woman, not easily charmed by Noah, which is really easy to believe because
Noah is completely lacking in charm.
Next we meet Arthur, Noah's father and head of Doyle and Merchant.
Arthur is a cold man, and he has a very low opinion of most people, especially compared
to him.
In the chapter we meet him, he gives us the first of what will be several long, dull monologues.
This won't be a surprise to anyone who's familiar with the show Glenn Beck used to
have on Fox News.
Glenn had a tendency to go on these long, droning sermons, and when characters like
Arthur in this chapter go on one, you can't help but hear Glenn Beck's voice come through
every painful beat.
I'll spare you the ten pages of ranting this guy goes on for and cut to the heart of it.
Arthur's rant is largely just him explaining how the government is completely corrupt and
that it needs to take control of the people, to usher them into a new age where they are
safely under the thumb of the elites.
That's basically everything Glenn imagines someone like Barack Obama is saying behind
closed doors.
The United States government has approached Arthur and his company for public relations
help for a recent document that got leaked, listing various groups the government has
under surveillance.
The document is a list of conspiracy theorists, extreme conservative activists, and other
names assigned to members of Glenn Beck's audience, along with a few outliers to make
it seem legitimate.
By placing his audience in the crosshairs, this is how Glenn Beck breeds loyalty.
He's inventing a threat, using the supposed language of the dark left-wing establishment
and telling his audience that they're being targeted with said words.
Arthur eventually convinces the government that they should let him take the reins of
their messaging because a grand opportunity is afoot.
Now, Arthur Gardner said, his voice just above a whisper, while the tide is in our favor,
come with me.
You can still save yourselves, and in doing so, you can help us build a whole new world
upon the ashes of the old.
Noah heads over to the tavern Molly and her Patriot friends are all hanging out in.
He obviously just wants to see Molly, though, because he's way into her.
While on the way, Noah's out-of-control cab driver gets stopped by security forces, who
are out in numbers because of the G20 summit happening.
It's weird that this G20 plot point is brought up and never mentioned again, but it does
give Noah the chance to use the sovereign citizen defense of, am I being detained?
Which somehow totally works.
His cab driver is less lucky, as he gets hauled away by cops.
The rise met.
Noah and that driver.
What he was yelling now wasn't hard to understand, probably words he'd practiced from a phrasebook
for some bad night that might come along when he'd need them.
Help me, my friend.
I have to offer partial credit to Glenn here for portraying this guy in a sympathetic light.
He's clearly the victim, and if anything, Noah comes off as an asshole, shrugging it
off and getting on with his evening.
So there's some genuine sympathy here.
Not enough to give this cab driver a name, background, or even closure since we never
see him again.
Also him mouthing those words, which for some reason aren't in quotation marks, are, as
best I can tell, the only lines that were spoken by a person of color in this entire
book.
At least, the only character who is explicitly not white.
Noah shrugs off the police state's shakedown and finally gets to the tavern to meet the
founder's keepers.
The crowd here are obviously meant to be stand-ins for the Tea Party movement, and it's cute
how Glenn describes them like this.
The diversity of the gathering was another surprise.
There seemed to be no clear exclusions based on race or class or any of the other traditional
media-fed American cultural divides.
It was a total cross-section, a mix of everyone, three-piece suits rubbing elbows with t-shirts
and sweatpants, yuppies chatting with hippies, black and white, young and old, a cowboy hat
here, a $600 haircut there, all talking together, energetically agreeing and disagreeing as
he moved through them.
In the press, these sorts of meanings were typically depicted as the exclusive haunts
of old white people of limited beings and even more limited intelligence.
But this was everybody.
This gathering of definitely not just white people reads as deeply insecure from the outside.
But for anyone within the Tea Party movement, scenes like this must come across as sweet
vindication.
And even though Glenn claims this patriot gathering in his book is diverse, every character
we meet who has any lines to speak will be white.
Like Molly's friend Hollis, who is big and, uh, nice, I guess?
There's really not a lot to say about this guy.
And what would this gathering be without a few more Glenn Beck rants?
A pair of them this time lasting eight and four pages, respectively.
And it's here it starts to sink in that everyone basically agrees about how the world works.
Even though the Founders' Keeper speakers are foils to Arthur Gardner, the content of
their speeches talk about the same things, the impending disaster, the corruption right
through the government, and how the elites are pulling all the strings.
All these rants toss out facts, draw lazy connections, and everyone just nods along.
There's no real debate or questioning of anything in this book.
Everyone believes in the conspiracy.
It's just a question of whether they support it or fight against it.
The first of the two speakers is Beverly Emerson, Molly's mother.
She manages to cite Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. without ever mentioning race.
She also holds up a constitution and does what a lot of this book will do, present this
document as a sacred text.
She talks about the founding fathers less like men and more like prophets.
The book is dripping with sanctification of the United States' founding.
The next speech comes from a guy named Danny Bailey.
His speech is lots of random facts, once again tenuously connected by arbitrary threads.
Danny is presented as less credible than the other speakers, and perhaps more of a rabble
rouser.
He's someone who got famous through a viral YouTube video, and he acts like an egotistical
rock star.
He seems like an obvious analog for Glenn Beck himself.
Noah scoffs at Danny's speech and gets instantly put on the spot, and then he goes into a rant
of his own where, instead of presenting a different take on the fear-mongering and wild
conspiracy theories being presented, he just agrees with them.
This is all part of Noah's three-page rant, which is only interrupted when a gunshot goes
off and the tavern is swarmed by police.
Noah is arrested along with everyone else, but is eventually released because he's a
rich guy with connections.
Noah uses his connections to get the other Founders' Keeper's members released from
prison, and he takes Molly and her mom to their respective homes in his limo.
Molly's mom gets dropped off pretty quickly, so Noah and Molly can have a sort of date
as he drives her around New York City.
The limo ride is supposedly about Noah and Molly getting closer, but we instead get more
long rants, highlighting, among many other things, how Bill Clinton was utterly ruthless.
Somehow this rant about Bill Clinton charms Molly, and after a kiss, she follows Noah
back to his apartment.
The dialogue makes a shift from long-winded rants to painful banter between Noah and Molly.
She lets him know she isn't going to have sex with him, and bonus points for Noah actually
respecting her need to consent, especially since the scene ends with the two of them
in bed together.
If you thought a woman crawling into bed with a man and wrapping her arm around him would
lead to a hookup, you'd be wrong, because this book is very squeamish about depicting
sex.
But maybe Molly realized she could never have sex with a man who says something like this.
I'm telling you right now, you made the rules, but you're playing with fire here.
I've got some rules too, and rule number one is, don't tease the panther.
Who could possibly have sex with someone after they've said that?
Elsewhere, Danny Bailey is approached by another major character for this book's plot, an
FBI agent named Stuart Kearns.
Kearns picks up Danny from the police station, taking Danny into his custody.
Kearns has been working in deep cover for over a decade, posing as an online conspiracy
theorist.
His mission is to make people who question the government look like ridiculous paranoid
weirdos.
He's more or less embodying the real-world conspiracy theories that Alex Jones is a government
plant designed to undercut other supposedly credible conspiracy theory movements.
Kearns recruits an unwilling Danny with threats of jail time.
He's using Danny, an activist with a degree of credibility and fame thanks to his YouTube
viral video, to further the FBI's agenda to discredit right-wing activist groups.
More on how this plot thread plays out later.
The next morning, Molly starts to pressure Noah to break into his father's office to
steal some documents.
These documents are related to the meeting mentioned earlier where Arthur went on that
Glenn Beck grant for 10 pages, the meeting about the leaked document that Arthur's firm
was hired to cover up.
Noah refuses to do it, and then Molly drops this on him.
Do you want me to leave?
Her voice was tight, and there were sudden tears in her eyes.
Do you never want to see me again?
Because that's what this means.
The book is helpfully establishing that Molly is also an awful person.
Noah and Molly break into the office by using the very clever covert method of Noah using
his keycard to walk in, and suddenly the conspiracy everyone already believed in is revealed
via some PowerPoint slides.
The grand plan is to trigger a catastrophic event that will shift the Overton window in
the direction towards creating more government oversight, taking away people's freedom.
All this physical evidence of a grand conspiracy only gets vaguely mentioned throughout the
rest of this book, because the only thing that really matters in this scene is that
Noah and Molly have learned that something big is happening within the next few days,
possibly a terrorist attack staged by the shadowy group.
The break-in scene also gives us a nice list of objectives the shadowy group has lined
up which include things like social justice and internationalism, but I want to highlight
one particular bullet point on this list.
Expand malleable voter base and agenda support by granting voting rights to prison inmates,
undocumented migrants, and select U.S. territories, Puerto Rico.
Image as a civil rights issue, labeled dissenters as racist, invoke reliable analogies, slavery,
Nazism, segregation, isolationism.
The phrase malleable voter base has a lot, especially when we're talking about the specific
people that make up prison inmates, undocumented migrants, and Puerto Rico.
We're talking about the Black and Hispanic populations.
Why exactly are these people malleable?
Could it perhaps have something to do with their race?
The most charitable interpretation I could come up with is that being given the right
to vote would make them become the tools of whatever party gave them that right.
Imagine this argument being used against giving women the right to vote.
And how are people convicted in prison more malleable?
I'd expect the opposite, to be honest.
And let's not mince words about undocumented migrants.
This isn't just about granting them voting rights.
This is about the power of citizenship.
This whole little section is just another example of one of the uglier forms of racist
disenfranchisement Glenn Beck smuggles into his work.
Back to the plot.
Noah and Molly head over to the secret hideout of the Founders Keepers, a small apartment
in a less-than-reputable New York City neighborhood.
It's filled with conspiracy theory literature and tons of guns.
Hollis shows up again to give us a painful metaphor about how guns are like cookies.
The best ones are homemade.
I don't think that's true, but it hardly matters, because Hollis goes away after that
and we never see him again.
Nice knowing you, Hollis.
We meet some other members of the Founders Keepers.
They're named Patrick, Ethan, George, Thomas, Benjamin, Samuel, John, Alexander, James,
Nathaniel, another Benjamin, Franklin, Rush, William, and Steven.
These names, as you might have guessed, belong to the various Founding Fathers, and they
aren't the actual names of the characters.
Each one of these characters has been tasked with memorizing the works of the corresponding
Founding Father, and they sit around in a circle reciting the words to one another.
This is something lifted directly from Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, in which all books
are being burned by a totalitarian government, and people in the Resistance commit books
to memory to save their contents for future generations.
It doesn't really work in the context of the Overton Window, though, since it's not
like the writings of the Founding Fathers are being banned or destroyed.
The book says people are just kind of ignoring them.
I'm not sure how these handful of people memorizing them is going to change that.
To me, it reads more like these characters treating these works like scripture, something
to be committed to heart and shared in these prayer circles.
We also get some revisionist history as Glenn Beck frames the American Revolution as being
led from the pulpit, and credits the success of the Revolution to Americans staying religious.
You could make several videos about how the very selective reading of history Glenn Beck
has of the Founding Fathers, painting them as former religious than they were, but that's
a project for another book review, because there's so much more to go through in this
one.
The scene ends with Noah enjoying some lemonade, only to realize he had been drugged by Molly.
Betrayal.
As Danny and Agent Kerns travel along, we get some more talk about how accidents don't
just happen, and how Danny's own message, when it inspires violence, is actually being
twisted and distorted by the government, making it seem more violent than it really is.
I can't help but suspect Glenn might think of himself this way, or at least see it as
a convenient excuse when one of his listeners gets a little too excited.
For instance, when his conspiracy theory about the Tides Foundation led to one of his listeners
driving down there trying to shoot it up.
We learn a bit more of Agent Kerns' plan as he reveals he's stolen a fake nuclear
missile that he's delivering to a group of his more violent conspiracy theorist followers.
Kerns, being a really clever FBI agent, lets his hostage, Danny, grab a beer at a roadside
bar, all on his own.
Danny, not being a complete idiot, takes this chance to send a text message to Molly, informing
her to stay away from Las Vegas, and that the FBI is going to do something soon.
The five dudes Kerns and Danny are meeting are led by a guy named Elmer.
Using nothing more than his paranoia and knowledge of random facts, Danny also figures out this
Elmer guy must be Muhammad Atta, the guy behind the September 11th attacks, because, and I
kid you not, Atta at one time used the alias El Amir.
Of course there's the problem of Muhammad Atta having died in the 9-11 attacks, but
that's brushed aside as the US government manufacturing the idea that Muhammad Atta
is behind this nuclear attack, using the alias Elmer for some reason.
The logic here doesn't work, and for what it's worth, I believe the book is trying
to portray Danny as the unreliable conspiracy theorist.
How is Danny supposed to be less believable than Molly or Noah?
He goes on the same kinds of rants with tenuous connections between everything he says, but
what makes him wrong and other characters right?
But that's actually missing the point of this book.
This book isn't trying to convince us of a specific conspiracy, it's to get us to
adopt the conspiratorial mindset.
Noah is revived after being drugged by Molly, and he's lectured by Arthur, who reveals
more of the plot.
It seems Molly infiltrated the PR company with the goal of releasing the document mentioned
way back in the beginning of the book, you know that government document that was leaked
listing all of the government's enemies.
Now Molly was working for the PR firm that was hired to spin the news of the leaked document,
but how did she get access to the document before it got leaked?
How did the PR firm even know it existed until the government came to them to cover up the
leak?
I don't know how they got the document in the first place, none of this really makes
sense, but we're just supposed to roll with this.
Okay.
Molly's bigger role in the infiltration though was to seduce Noah into revealing all those
precious PowerPoint slides he led her to a few chapters ago.
This does explain how she tolerated his awful sense of humor and creepy jokes, but how
did Noah fall for this so easily?
Well, turns out Molly had been researching Noah for months on social media, learning
everything about him, but the key was when she found a certain photo that represented
exactly what Noah was looking for in a woman.
We learn about it in this excerpt.
Noah turned over another page, and the next item hit him like a blow to the midsection.
He thought for the first second that it was another picture of Molly, and it seemed that
was exactly the point.
It was a photo of Noah's mother.
Molly seduced Noah by dressing up as his dead mother.
Let's move on.
Arthur tries to talk some sense into Noah by explaining how people are inherently evil.
Then we find out the impending terror attack was actually Arthur's ideal this whole time.
Noah soon learns that Molly's mother is in the hospital, and armed with the truth about
how Molly and her mother used him, he storms right down there to confront her with the
best possible care money can buy because he still totally loves Molly.
After all, what's a little deception and drugging when you finally meet someone who
looks like your mother and doesn't run away screaming when you refer to yourself as the
panther?
In the scene, we also meet a doctor named Ellen Davenport who gives Noah the details
of how Molly's mother was poisoned.
We also find out she and Noah have some romantic history, but forget all that because we don't
see Ellen again for the rest of the book.
Molly's mother is dying, but points Noah towards the hotel Molly is hiding out in.
A hotel near the airport because Arthur has informed law enforcement of all the people
within Molly's group and they're currently being hunted.
Molly needs to get out of the city.
Noah heads to the hotel and is reunited with Molly, immediately forgiving her, and he decides
to help her sneak out of New York City.
To get past security, Noah calls up a fancy security detail that celebrities use to cut
through all the lines at the airport.
Molly conveniently not only looks like Noah's mother, but also looks like Natalie Portman.
And I'm glad I was able to get around to that because that's the reason I chose that
picture.
Noah thinks posing as Natalie Portman is a great disguise because...
It's perfect, Noah said.
She's an A-lister, but she's done mostly art house films, so the average Joe probably
couldn't pick her out of a lineup.
This book was written in 2010.
As Noah and Molly approach security, Noah suddenly remembers that Natalie Portman was
in the Star Wars movies, something Molly apparently doesn't know at all.
The TSA security guy, who Noah suspects is a Star Wars nerd, doesn't say anything until
the metal detector goes off.
Molly forgot to take off her metal jewelry before going through it, including her necklace
with its silver cross.
Security guard is immediately suspicious because he knows Natalie Portman is actually Jewish,
and he asks Molly about it.
As Noah sweats it out, he thinks about how awesome cops are.
Perhaps no liars like plumbers know leaks.
They encounter them every day, all day.
They know all the little signs and symptoms, and they're trained to understand that where
there's even a little whiff of smoke, one should always assume there's a fire.
As they challenge a person, they study their reactions, pick apart the little telltale
movements, listen to the timbre of the voice, and more than anything else, they watch the
eyes.
Most suspects have already made a full confession by the time they begin their denial.
That reads pretty creepy to me.
Cops know someone is lying just by looking at them.
How can anyone but a fascist believe something so stupid?
Back to the story.
Molly is confident she can handle the TSA security guy and decides to talk her way out
of the predicament.
This is a long passage, but I have to read all of it.
She turned to the officer, pulled back her hood and let it settle onto her shoulders,
removed the baseball cap and let it fall to the floor at her feet, and then slow and sure
began to walk toward him.
The force is strong with this one, Molly said, as calm and smooth as a Jedi master.
Her accent was gone and her voice was just breathy enough to obscure any other identifying
qualities of the real McCoy.
The TSA man's cheeks began to redden slightly, a power shift was underway, and as Noah had
learned firsthand, when this girl turned it on, you never knew what was about to hit you.
She continued nearer, put a finger to the frames, and lowered her sunglasses partway
down her nose, tipping her chin so she could look at the officer directly, eye to eye,
just over the top of the darkened lenses.
As she stopped, barely a foot away, she subtly passed an open hand between their faces and
spoke again.
These aren't the droids you're looking for, Molly said.
After waiting a moment, she gave him a little nod, as though it had come time in their close-up
scene for his own line of dialogue.
There was an eternal pause, and then before his eyes, Noah saw this big, intimidating
young man begin his grinning transformation from the TSA's most vigilant watchdog into
Natalie Portman's biggest fan.
These aren't the droids we're looking for, the officer repeated her words just as that
spellbound stormtrooper had said them at the Imperial checkpoint in Episode 4.
Molly used her deep knowledge of Star Wars to give us one of the cringiest scenes I've
ever read.
Lucky for Molly, who hasn't seen the prequels, happened to write a midterm paper on the first
two movies for her political science class.
This is the point I nearly dropped the book and discussed, but we're nearly done, so
let's keep going.
As Noah and Molly board a plane, we find out it isn't headed for safety.
Molly is taking them directly to Las Vegas.
To pass the time, Molly sleeps, and Noah reads some of the books she brought along
with her.
Really, they're the writings of the founding fathers.
It's true this that Noah finally understands why they were so great, and he's ready to
create something real with Molly, giving her the polyamorous relationship she was hoping
for.
Molly, Noah, and America.
Danny and Agent Kerns finally have the real meeting with the five dudes to exchange the
fake nuke, though we find out that Elmer has stood them up.
There's a tent standoff with the four dudes, followed by a shootout.
Danny and Kerns manage to take out three of the guys, but the fourth one jumps into
their truck and drives off.
Danny and Kerns manage to sneak into the back, only to find a dead body.
It's Kerns' handler, and conveniently the only man who knew Kerns was undercover, and
he's been murdered, and next to him is a second nuclear weapon.
Apparently the four dudes had a second nuke in their truck the whole time.
They wanted two, for some reason.
Somehow Kerns knows that he and his handler were set up the exact same way, delivering
two nukes to these five guys so they could stage a terrorist attack in Las Vegas.
I don't know why they needed two nukes.
Danny and Kerns chill out in the back of the truck for a bit, and short of ammo, figure
there's no way to overpower the armed guy who's driving the truck, who still hasn't
discovered them yet.
Being in the middle of the desert, their pre-arranged meeting place, Kerns and Danny realize the
only logical thing to do is to blow up the nuke.
As Noah and Molly arrive in Las Vegas, before the nuke has gone off, they start driving
towards the coordinates Danny gave them.
Noah tries to convince Molly to give up, even though he apparently understands what it means
to love America.
Noah still thinks it's hopeless, and with less than 50 pages left in the book, I'm
getting very impatient for our hero to do anything remotely heroic.
Molly doesn't think Noah gets it, and he eventually hovers to jump out of the moving
car so she can go on alone.
And then he does that.
He tries to flag down some people driving down the road, including security forces chasing
Molly when the nuke goes off behind him.
According to Noah, it feels like a hot summer wind.
Noah of course survives the nuke, because I guess he was far enough away.
He's arrested, though, and waterboarded, and when he can't reveal any secrets because
he doesn't know any, he's taken to a room where he undergoes electroconvulsive therapy.
Arthur arrives to give Noah a chance to redeem himself, which Arthur believes Noah does when
Noah recites part of that Rudyard Kipling poem that was one of Arthur's favorites.
The epilogue takes place sometime in the future.
Noah is being kept in a special prison for political dissidents.
He's being tasked with writing a creative confession implicating his former cohorts,
but try as he might, he can't hide the facts of what heroes the Founders Keepers were.
I'm not sure what heroic things they did, and he couldn't possibly know about Danny
detonating that nuke, which I guess is heroic, I'm not sure why.
While Noah is in prison, a guard slips him a message, and Molly's bracelet, they've
got work for him to do, and Molly is waiting for him.
And so ends the narrative portion of the Overton window.
I say the narrative portion because the book isn't over yet.
We also have an afterword from Glenn where he lists the many sources he used for this
book, and how some of the crazy conspiracy theories he used might be worth taking more
seriously.
He also happily explains how Danny was supposed to be the crazy one, and offers some reasonable
explanation as to why his theories were baseless, explanations that would have been very helpful
within the actual novel, but hey, I guess having them in the afterword is better than
nothing at all.
It also would have been nice if Glenn had looked into the other conspiracy theories
he peddled throughout this book, but we don't get any of that either.
That's not what this book is about.
Danny is the token conspiracy theory nut used to buy the appearance of Glenn being a credible
broker.
He's also the one smuggling in other conspiracy theories that are just as baseless, but making
them seem more respectable because they're coming out of the mouths of reputable characters.
And that's what this book is all about, mainstreaming conspiratorial thinking.
At least Glenn Beck is honest in the afterword about him trying to manipulate the Overton
window, only he's not pushing it towards liberty, he's pushing it towards paranoia.
First let's talk about this book's style.
Although it clocks in at 292 pages, not counting the afterword, it's a surprisingly brisk
read.
It works out to 47 chapters with a prologue and epilogue, so roughly 6 pages per section,
and certain parts of the book feel like they're moving in fast forward, with the notable exception
being that Founders Keeper gathering at the tavern which ran on for 6 chapters.
So in this book you're never in a bad scene for too long before another one comes up to
replace it.
The problem is, it's never replaced by anything good.
What little space is afforded to chapters is wasted with pointless aside, such as that
random paragraph about cops being lie detectors.
I know something like that is supposed to build tension, but it feels ham-fisted into
a scene that was already absurd and way too brief to create any real tension.
Any drama that was supposed to be here just doesn't come across.
And the rants.
There is so much to say about the ranting.
Every character has a monologue, and they're all the same.
The government is corrupt, Spindy is out of control, and there are shadowy forces manipulating
the world.
By the third or fourth rant, I had heard everything there was to be said about this particular
theory, but I was well aware that this being a book by Glenn Beck, he wasn't about to
stop repeating himself.
Those pages need fill-in.
And to go back briefly to that bullet point on malleable voters, as someone on the left
I obviously believe there are some real arguments to be made on why people who live within the
United States deserve voting rights, and in the case of undocumented immigrants, citizenship.
And perhaps you're someone who disagrees with that, and we could even debate it.
But we don't see those clashing viewpoints here.
The well is being poisoned because these arguments are never made by genuine activists or people
who believe there's some merit to the argument.
It's by a shadowy group cynically using these concerns to advance their agenda.
It's similar to the violent activist groups, specifically right-wing ones who are only
portrayed as violent when that shadowy group sends in infiltrators and manipulates them.
The normal people we meet in this world all acknowledge the reality of secret conspiracies
that Glenn wants you to believe.
This book is about degrading trust in the institutions around us, specifically the government
and the media, who are all secretly working together, working against freedom and America
and other things people have an implicit love of.
The book is telling us not to trust the supposed protectors of these ideals.
And this is the most important part.
The book does want you to know that you can trust Glenn, who supposedly doesn't want
to be right about this stuff, but he is and is the only person you can trust.
And you can demonstrate that trust by buying one of his books, watching his TV show, or
nowadays, signing up for a membership at the blaze.
And if the conspiracies he tells you support one political party over another, or more
accurately demonizes one party in particular, and if there are some financial interests
that want to demonize said party and champion the other, and they want to use their money
to support Glenn, well, that's just something that happens in the world, isn't it?
But damn it, did I just suggest there's an actual conspiracy theory here, that Glenn
Beck is peddling a bunch of lies to push conservative talking points like flat tax and climate
denial to the public, and that moneyed interests like Fox News, which hired him to spew this
nonsense and find it very useful to spread information that will ultimately support
the Republican Party?
Is that the conspiracy I'm pushing?
No, that's not what a conspiracy is.
The only part of what I described that might be a secret is the idea that Glenn Beck is
genuine.
Before leaving this book entirely, I want to spend a little bit of time talking about
its reception.
The general critical response was, as you might have guessed, not generous.
The reviews published at the time from most mainstream outlets criticized its clumsy prose,
bland characters, and rushed plot.
Worst of all, for a thriller, most people noticed how it wasn't thrilling at all.
I mean, I just gave you the plot synopsis.
Point to any moment that was genuinely thrilling, I would love to hear that.
The Overton Window did hit number one on the New York Times bestseller list when it came
out on June 15th, and stayed on that list for three months.
Looking around online, reviews from readers of the book are generally positive, though
not what I would call enthusiastic.
It scored a 3.5 on goodreads, with most people mentioning how breezy a read it was.
There were a few comments that stood out to me, though.
I like this one review from Elizabeth, who gave it one star.
If part of your goal is to teach, by example, here you're shooting yourself in the foot
by communicating to the world that a name and some fast, poorly written fiction with
jumbled ideas is exactly what the Founding Fathers had hoped for in the future and potential
of America that you so often revere and expound.
A short version of the reviews I read is that fans of Glenn Beck loved it, and non-Beck
fans remained unmoved, although even some Glenn Beck fans were a bit disappointed with
how poorly it was written.
But maybe we can't blame Glenn for that himself.
In an interview with USA Today, Glenn copped to not having been the actual writer of this
book.
On the title page, Beck shares credit with three contributors.
He calls the conspiracy novel My Story, but he says Jack Anderson, one of his contributors,
went in and he put the words down.
Other novelists might not acknowledge such help, but Beck, a self-described fiscal conservative
and common-sense libertarian, says, I'm a team kind of guy.
The title page credits Kevin Balfi, Emily Bestler, and Jack Anderson, but as Glenn's quote
alluded to, Jack Henderson, in particular, is a person of interest.
It's kind of weird to think that Glenn hired a professional writer to ghost-write this
entire book, but it still turned out the way it did.
What's truly wonderful about this is that it seems Henderson might have actually conned
Glenn Beck.
In an article on the Huffington Post, Chris Kelly notes that the Overton window is suspiciously
similar to one of Henderson's earlier works, Circumference of Darkness, published in 2007.
I couldn't bring myself to read a longer version of the same novel story with awful
writing to verify how similar they are, but I'm willing to say at least their plots have
a few things in common.
Both involve a guy being seduced by a lovely woman to help take down a group of terrorists
who are planning to detonate a nuke.
Only in Henderson's earlier work, it's a right-wing group that's behind everything
and not a left-wing one.
Glenn Beck responded to this article himself, and he was outraged because he seems to think
Kelly was accusing him of plagiarism.
It's not that Glenn Beck plagiarized anything, it's that Jack Henderson wrote a book for
Glenn Beck that was just a recycled version of a book he had previously written.
That Glenn had read Circumference of Darkness and didn't notice that it had recycled the
same plot is kind of funny.
So the only person getting ripped off here is Glenn, and I'm so glad we could find at
least one happy ending here.
The idea of Glenn Beck being a dishonest grifter shouldn't surprise anyone.
Several years after this book was published when Glenn Beck had been exiled from Fox News
and was trying to stay relevant with his own outlet, The Blaze, he tried to continue his
anti-establishment shtick by being a never-Trumper conservative.
Donald Trump is a dictator in the making.
You called him a sociopath, dangerous, unhinged, unstable, and you compared him to Adolf Hitler.
I don't think I compared him to Adolf Hitler.
Nobody can be compared to Adolf Hitler.
I said Adolf Hitler of the 1930s and 40s is not Adolf Hitler of the 1920s.
Nobody who can reach in and stir a crowd like that has a moral compass that is wishy-washy
at best.
They don't all turn into Adolf Hitler's.
But one of them did.
He even got to appear on Samantha Bee's show wearing a dumb sweater trying to get some
cred with the left.
When his already diminished audience, compared to his Fox days, kept shrinking, he ran into
the arms of Daddy Trump and never looked back.
Now he's hired such luminaries as Lauren Chen, Dave Rubin, and Steven Crowder, amplifying
their dopey conservative talking points.
The problem of Glenn Peck is the impact he's had on American society.
It can't be understated how much the shift of the Overton window to the right has frozen
and in some cases pulled back progress in the United States.
When you prime a sizable portion of the electorate to reject the establishment in favor of conspiracy
theories that are covers for far-right policies, you create a deeper level of polarization
that is easily plucked up by some swaggering demagogue.
And these people have been conned for many years now and in many ways are victims of
Glenn Beck, people whose grievances were ignored by the Democratic Party and then co-opted
by the right.
Anyone who sees that the system is working for the rich and powerful should be a ready
ally for the party demanding stronger social programs and higher taxes on the wealthy,
but the power of charismatic charlatans like Glenn Beck symbolized in books like the Overton
window has swept these people away, preying on ignorance and stoking racism to scapegoat
immigrants and the left more broadly.
That's the danger of a book like this one.
Facts are woven into elaborate fantasies and con people into voting against their interests.
This book was, uh, pretty rough.
The sequel to this book is called The Eye of Moloch, and I'm not really super anxious
to read it, but I don't know if people really want to see that.
I might do it.
There's another Glenn Beck novel I'd actually rather read instead, and I might do that one
as well.
The names you see scrolling up the screen are my lovely patrons.
These patrons who not only get their name in the credits, they also get early access
to my videos, which is a new reward that if you're interested in supporting me is available.
There's also a download to my theme song, and that's it for now, but hey, if you were
considering supporting me on Patreon, like all of these lovely people, you can head on
over there and subscribe to the $5 tier because I'm just putting everything in there, I guess.
You can't support me financially or just don't want to, that's totally fine.
There are lots of free ways you can express your appreciation for my work by liking this
video, subscribing if you haven't already, and ringing that bell if you want to make
sure you're kept in the loop whenever I drop a new video.
Also leave a comment below, tell me about how much you loved this book, or hated it,
or maybe learned something about the effect of Glenn Beck on the body politic.
If you have some extra affinity for me, you can always follow me on Twitter and just send,
you know, positive vibes in my general direction.
Thank you all for watching.
