This video is sponsored by NordVPN. I'll have a little ad spot a little later on in the video,
but if you're considering supporting this channel in any way,
consider checking out my affiliate link nordvpn.com slash Jose. This book sucks.
In 2016, conservative commentator and guy who will absolutely not go to any gay barbecues,
Ben Shapiro decided he would take a break from penning an endless series of books about how to
own the left with facts and logic, and decided to try his hand at writing some fiction.
The title of his first original novel is True Allegiance. This is not a good book.
Do not buy or read it. And now with that disclaimer out of the way, let's get started.
The first thing that a person sees when opening up this book is a terrific cell phone. The very
first page includes praise for the book, including this quote from Salon. Meet our new Ayn Rand.
Of course, the full quote actually reads, Meet our new Ayn Rand. Ben Shapiro's hand-fisted
propaganda fiction is even worse than you guessed. But it's actually even worse than that. Even though
the book calls it praise for true allegiance, this article was published in 2015, a year before True
Allegiance was released. The author was actually taking a shot at Ben Shapiro's short story
collection titled What's Fair that was published digitally that year. The rest of the accolades
come from conservative fixtures and a few creative types. Here's a brief sample. It's prophetic.
Just a little too real for comfort. Is it really fictional? Yes to that last one. That's how
novels work. But to address the other comments, the opening pages of this book are trying very
hard to convince us that this book describes a plausible depiction of the real world. I want
you to think about that as we go through its plot. This is a tough book to read. Particularly
in public, you have to hold it in just such a way that no one can tell you're reading a book by Ben
Shapiro. The actual prose is a lot easier to grasp. The novel is split into three parts,
with chapters divided amongst five central characters, although Ben breaks this rule drifting
to other characters all the time. The main character is Brett Hawthorne. And yes, I do need
to say it like that. Brett Hawthorne is the youngest general in US history at 41. He spends
most of this novel murdering terrorists and getting angry at those damn liberals who would
rather send them winter coats. Our next major character is President Mark Prescott. He's a
president obsessed with how he's perceived in the media, and he's trying to appease the American
population by bringing the troops back home and going massively into debt to China to pay for work
programs. He's generally a cowardly guy. He's also a thinly veiled combination of Barack Obama
and Bill Clinton. Our next major character is Ellen Hawthorne, Brett's wife. Ellen does
something working for the governor of Texas. I think she's an aide for him. It's really hard
to tell because she goes from photographing dead children at the border to leading the National
Guard, and then she's suddenly like a proxy for the governor. I really don't know what her
specific title is. She just does whatever the plot needs her to do. Next we've got Soledad Ramirez.
She runs a ranch that falls on hard times when the EPA shuts down access to a river to protect
a threatened species. It prevents her from watering her cattle and destroys her ranch,
so she resorts to terrorism. This is an obvious nod to the Cliven Bundy story of a few years back
when ranchers took over a government building because he wanted to keep using land stolen from
the government. Our last character is, brace yourself for this one, Levon Williams, a drug dealer
from Detroit who hustles his way into a civil rights movement that's a stand-in for Black Lives
Matter. If there's one character who will just drive you up a wall with the naked racism of it,
it's Levon, so look forward to that. And so there we have our principal cast, three protagonists
and two antagonists. The book opens with a prologue that takes us into the story in Media Reyes.
It's a scene from further along in the story where the George Washington Bridge is collapsing
after a terrorist bombing. Leaving that aside from now, let's go to the first chapter where
Brett Hothorn is stationed in Afghanistan, which is quickly falling into the hands of the Taliban
after the feckless left-wing President Prescott decided to pull out the majority of the troops.
As Kabul crumbles around him, we learn about Brett's backstory. We find out he has a friend
named Derek who taught him how to get out of scraps using his wits instead of fighting.
Fun fact about the rest of this book, every scrap Brett gets into,
he escapes by beating up or murdering the other person. We don't hear from his buddy Derek,
who the book is quick to tell us is his black friend, until much later on when we find out
he grew up to become a plot device. Brett and Ellen have a special way of saying goodbye to one
another. Take a bullet for you babe. I shuddered every time I had to read that.
Back in the United States we meet President Prescott. He's recently come up with a new
governmental program called the Work Freedom Program to get Americans working again. Here's
a fun fact that I'm sure is just a coincidence. One of the campaign slogans the Nazis used in the
1930s was work, freedom, and bread. The phrase comes up from a 19th century German novel,
Arbeit Mach Frei. Where criminals attained freedom through work, it was also the phrase
emblazoned on the gates to concentration camps. I think Ben is trying to suggest something here
by having the president create a Work Freedom Program. As Prescott delivers his speech we meet
Soledad, who has decided to take the impending doom of her ranch into her own hands when she
hires someone to bomb a U.S. federal building. The woman who bombed an office belonging to the
U.S. government is a hero, but the Taliban soldiers who bombed the U.S. embassy in Kabul
two chapters ago are villains. It's strange to see a book use such frightening morality that
justifies actions on the basis of the one performing them, but here we are. Soledad,
captive in her ranch, is surrounded by law enforcement who would easily arrest this
one 50-something-year-old lady except that there are dozens of biker ranchers surrounding them,
ready to die for Soledad. I guess they're ready to just go to war with the cops, okay.
Next we go to Detroit to meet Levon, who's got a fancy crack operation because Ben's knowledge of
black culture is from movies from the 1970s and 80s. Levon meets Jim Crawford, a civil rights
leader who takes Levon under his wing after Levon poorly quotes Hamlet. Jim responds,
quoting dead honkies, you might be useful yet. Ben thinks that's what black people talk like.
Then, in the same chapter, we cut away to a new character, Officer Ricky O'Sullivan,
who is confronted by a young boy named Kendrick Malone late at night. Apparently, this boy was
just wandering around the streets of Detroit in the middle of the night. I can't describe the
madness of this scene, so let me just read some of it. As a bit of context, O'Sullivan thinks
Kendrick has a gun concealed in his pants, but at this point he can't see it.
Fuck you, honky. The kid shot back. Get the fuck out of my neighborhood. Then he laughed,
a cute kid's laugh. O'Sullivan looked for sympathy behind those eyes. Found none.
Oh shit, O'Sullivan thought. Then he said, hands up, right now. It goes on like this for a little
while, but later on the scene. You go home, white boy, said the kid. His hand moved lower.
Suddenly, O'Sullivan's head filled with a sudden clarity, his brain with a preternatural energy.
He recognized the feel of the adrenaline hitting. He wasn't going to get shot in the corner of Iowa
and Van Dyke outside a shitty convenience store and in a shitty town by some eight-year-old,
bleed out in the gutter of some city the world left behind. He had a life too. The gun felt alive
in his hand. The gun was life. Yeah, that's right. The kid is eight. As you might have guessed,
this ends with the cop murdering the child. And after he realizes he just shot a child who was
holding a toy gun, not a real one, we get this line. When he looked up, he saw them coming.
Dozens of them. The citizens of Detroit coming out of the darkness, congregating. He could feel
their eyes. Soledad's chapter also ended with people surrounding law enforcement, but in that
case, it was the heroic biker ranchers surrounding the cruel cops who were trying to arrest this
harmless woman who bombed a government building. In this chapter, it's a bunch of scary black
people surrounding this innocent cop whose only crime was murdering an eight-year-old.
I would almost think that this symmetry was intentional. I'm not sure Ben is that clever,
unless he was trying to expose his ridiculous bias here. This is Ben's way of showing us who
the good people are and who the bad people are. It underscores what I mentioned earlier. Their
actions aren't material. It's their identity that will inform who we should consider a protagonist
and who we should consider an antagonist. And next, we finally meet Brett's wife, Ellen. The
chapter we meet her in is boring, but it establishes that she works for Governor
Bubba Davis of Texas and that there are drug dealers arriving in Texas by helicopter and
they murder one of Ellen's friends. And this plot point doesn't have any lasting ramifications
aside from letting us know that the border is soft and under threat by Mexico. I mean,
drug dealers, right? It's drug dealers who are coming across the border, sure.
Ben is cramming a lot of topics into this story. I'd say way too many for 266 pages,
but who am I to disagree with the cool kid's philosopher? Back in Afghanistan, Brett Hawthorne
finds out that the US has been betrayed by the US ambassador to Afghanistan. Apparently,
this guy was a big donor to the Prescott campaign and he was rewarded with becoming
ambassador to Afghanistan. Honestly, that sounds more like a punishment than anything else.
Maybe this is why he betrayed America. We never really get an answer to the question of why he
betrayed America. The plot point is pretty much dropped after this revelation. It's a brief
scene where Brett opens the ambassador's briefcase, finding a map with two sets of coordinates,
one set in Iran and one set in Iraq. And from there, he somehow figures out the ambassador
sold Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction to Iran. I'm not sure how I figured this one out.
He just kind of did. Ben also helpfully rewrote history by giving Saddam Hussein nuclear weapons
he never had. I don't know why he couldn't just pretend it was chemical weapons that were never
found, but Saddam had nukes in this story. Whatever. After that, Brett gets captured
by some terrorists. Governor Bubba Davis gets a lengthy introduction. We find out that the
governor was once a big player in the oil industry and then he ran for office when he found out the
Environmental Protection Agency was threatening the production of oil. It's amazing how a rich
oil tycoon running for office to protect his own business is presented as some kind of hero in this
book. It seems like there's a problem with the system if a rich person can afford to run for
office when their money is at threat. Here's a passage from the book describing Bubba's campaign.
In his opening campaign speech, he named the three top environmental officers in the state and read
off how much they'd received from lobbyists from the environmentalists and how much those
environmental groups received from global competitors like the Saudi government.
Why would Saudi Arabia, which makes its money off of oil, want to finance people
protested against oil? Or these environmentalists specifically against American oil? Typically,
they argue for green energy and getting off oil entirely. It doesn't make sense. Even when Ben
is writing fiction, his conspiracy theories don't seem believable. Also, this scene of an angry Bubba
reminded me of something. Well, go fuck yourself then, he sputtered slamming the phone down on his
carefully crafted maple desk. He looked up. Oh, hey Ellen, glad you're back. I did not hit her.
It's not true. It's bullshit. I did not hit her. I did not. Oh, hi Mark. Back with Soledad,
she's eventually spirited away from her ranch by Aiden Foster, formerly in law enforcement. Aiden
just couldn't stomach being on that side anymore. And oh god, here we go back and leave on story.
We find out that the recently murdered eight-year-old Kendrick was actually sent there by
Levon and Jim so they could manufacture a story about the cops shooting a kid. Yeah,
that's really how it happened. Ben has given us the most ghoulish black activists I've seen in
a book in a very long time. A large group of, as the book puts it, mostly young black men
start protesting. Levon, who is apparently a master of manipulating the media, tricks them
into covering the story from the angle that the shooting of an eight-year-old kid is wrong.
I'm not sure you need to trick the media into believing that a child getting shot by a cop is
a bad thing, but that's how this novel frames it. Ben introduces a new character who gets a focal
point chapter just for this one time only. He's a terrorist from the Middle East and you better
believe his name is Muhammad. In Muhammad's story, we also meet Ibrahim Ashami, a bin Laden-like
figure who, in spite of being a sloughest terrorist, is somehow being supported by Iran.
Considering how much ISIS and Iran are at odds with one another, this is a stretch. It's supposed to
be showing readers that theocratic Muslims will put aside their differences when it comes to
fighting against America. This reads into a broader paranoia about Muslims, that they will
one day create a universal alliance and start attacking the West. It's a grotesque caricature
of Muslims and Islam in general, and it's also exactly what Osama bin Laden was trying to do on
9-11. By having the US respond violently in the Middle East, he was hoping all Muslims would unite
together and team up to fight America. And 18 years later, it's pretty obvious that he failed.
We also get this line, where Muhammad is sitting in a cafe in Tehran and getting very frustrated.
He was getting sick of listening to the Western-style, sinful music blasting over the speakers.
What, he asked himself, does it mean to hit me baby one more time?
So I guess in Iran, music is over 20 years out of date, and pretty neat that they, I guess,
can play American music right there in public. Muhammad picks up a nuke from a Russian guy,
which is weird because I thought it was the American ambassador to Afghanistan who was
hooking them up with Saddam Hussein's nukes, unless this ambassador was also working for Russia.
It's never really explained because Russia's involvement and the ambassador, all this stuff,
is just sort of forgotten about. Brett is in the hands of Ashami, and we get a terrible
comeback line when Brett, after hearing America get talk-town to by Ashami, says,
we live for something. We live to kill bastards like you.
Most of Brett's lines read like this one. While captive, Brett sees a landmark through an open
window and somehow figures out not only is he in Tehran, but that he must be at the same coordinates
on the map he found in the briefcase. I don't know how he puts that one together. Brett is
filmed in a hostage video, and he sends a message back to America by blinking in Morse code.
This was first done in 1966 by Jeremiah Denton when he spelled out torture while describing his
captivity in Vietnam. Ben even describes it in this book. While Denton only blinked out torture,
Brett manages to blink out Airstrike Now, 514231 356961.
Somehow the terrorists don't notice one of the most famous examples of an American sending a
secret message back home, or that he's blinking really weirdly for three minutes.
Also, those coordinates are in the middle of Tehran, so to kill Ashami, Brett is gasking
the president to launch an airstrike on the capital city of Iran. This would start a war
killing hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, but in Brett's mind that's worth it to
get one terrorist. Because Prescott isn't a complete maniac, he decides to send in a special
forces team instead. Except he waited four days, letting Ashami slip through their fingers,
and Brett apparently didn't need that team to save him anyway because even though he's got a
broken arm and he's been awake for two days straight, he's able to murder both of his guards
and escape. And on the way out, he saves the team that had come to rescue him, because the building
has been set up to explode, and he just sort of hauls them out of there. I'm not sure why the
building exploded, or why there were only two guards though. The terrorists can't afford recruits,
but they can afford extra bombs for all their buildings. Brett knows Mohammed is heading to
America for another attack. He doesn't tell the president because he thinks he's a giant wimp,
so he decides to solve this problem alone. In the wake of all these events, we finally get the
bombing of the George Washington Bridge from way back in the prologue. Back in Texas, Governor
Davis is using the National Guard to patrol the border, which is, from the book's perspective,
working really nicely by turning the southern part of Texas into a police state. It's a bit
frightening how often this book talks about how nice it is to have armed military personnel
everywhere. Since the president hates America, he's annoyed by safety at the border. But Baba
doesn't care. He's just a Texas badass. Ben loves his characters. In Detroit, Levon is unveiling his
master plan to get the city to bow to the will of his angry black man mob so he can start making
reforms to the police system. He wants an all-black police force, and this apparently means they'll
have to have lower education standards and allow in more criminals. Gee, I wonder what Ben is saying
about the black community here. We're getting a caricature of a civil rights leader in the making,
and it's being used to make a broader point about the black community. It's not the legacy of racism
that's held them back, but the evil people who take advantage of the community's
rage and loose moral character. They seem like the violent and angry community easily led astray by
the worst members inside of it. Unless you doubt his expertise, Ben has intimate knowledge of the
black community. Remember this line from earlier on? Quoting dead honkies, you might be useful yet.
Thanks to a Republican district attorney, the officer who shot the child won't be charged,
and people are getting angrier. Back in the US, Brett is trying to track down Muhammad,
and we get a cringy scene where Ben Shapiro reveals he doesn't understand what racial
profiling is. In this scene, a Port Authority security guy is refusing to help Brett racial
profile records of people entering the US. Look, Brett burst out, losing his patience.
I don't give a rat's ass at this point whether it's racial profiling or not. Maybe you're right,
maybe Muhammad is a light-skinned Norwegian woman or a Cherokee elder, or maybe he's a Persian or
Arabic-looking son of a bitch who hangs out with other Persian or Arabic-looking sons of bitches
who look like Ibrahim Ashami. If I end up being wrong and he looks like Helen Mirren, feel free
to tell the New York Times editorial board about it. At this point in the story, Brett has a physical
description of Muhammad. In an earlier scene, he describes him. He's about 5'9", 140", skinny,
maybe 17 years old, blue eyes, angular face, sharp, big nose. So if he knows he's looking
for an Arabic guy and has such a specific description, how is that racial profiling?
Racial profiling is questioning people on the basis of their race, not targeting a specific
person whose ethnicity you know and who you have reason to believe will commit a crime.
Maybe Brett is worried about a fake name, but looking up an Arabic man that he has already
seen makes perfect sense. It's the difference between stopping someone on the street because
they look like someone who is trying to commit a crime and stopping someone on the street because
they belong to a certain ethnic group that you just happen to believe commits crimes.
You have a crime which you have evidence is going to occur versus an imagined crime that you think
might occur because that racial group is always responsible for crimes. You see the difference
now. Ben, I suspect, doesn't. We also finally get to hear from Brett's best friend Derek. Remember
him? Well, he's not just your token good black guy, he's also your token Muslim because he goes
by Hassan Abdul. And what makes him a good Muslim, you ask? Well, he infiltrates mosques and informs
on other Muslims to the government. His role in this book is to hand off some information to Brett
and then get murdered because he's just a plot device, not a character. Bubba Davis sends Ellen
to parlay with the president as Prescott demands the National Guard be taken from the border to
help the cleanup in New York City after the bridge was bombed. On Soledad's side of things, we find
out that her new right-hand man, Aidan, is childhood friends with Ricky O'Sullivan, the cop who shot the
eight-year-old black child. So now the threads are coming together as Soledad's team decides to head
to Detroit to rescue Ricky. Their plan is kind of weird. They're going to have the biker ranchers
drive into the middle of the angry mob, which has congregated outside the prison Ricky is currently
staying in. The biker ranchers will start a fight and as things turn violent they'll sneak Ricky out
in the confusion. While this is going on, Levon has Jim, his civil rights mentor, murdered, leaving
Levon in control of the movement. Remember Ashami, the terrorist who's apparently the mastermind
behind all these attacks? You might as well forget about him because we found a new Muslim leader who
will be the focus for the rest of this book. Muhammad and his nuke have hooked up with an
imam named Omari, who runs a major mosque in the US. Omari has close ties to the president because
of course the left-wing president is unknowingly friends with a terrorist. The president is bending
to all of Levon's requests, like letting him influence the police department, not just in
Detroit, but eventually in cities across the US. And now I'm just going to skip ahead to the end of
Levon's story here because from this point on nothing really happens. He becomes more powerful
and he gets everything he wants because the president is afraid of being called a racist.
I'll have more to say about Levon later on. Soledad is finding more people deserting her
terrorist cell and soon the only ones left are her, Aiden, and Officer Ricky. The last biker to
leave them is a guy named Ezekiel, who then helpfully lets us know is black and this guy betrays
them. He's secretly been working with the US government and he gives a scarf with a tracking
device implanted on it to Soledad. It's also strange that he's the only biker whose race is
explicitly mentioned, just a detail I noticed. Soledad gives that bugged scarf to Aiden and it's
in his hands when the president, you know, the feckless coward who would have tea with a terrorist
decides to order a drone strike on American soil. Personally I think it would be easier to just
arrest three people who are driving around on motorcycles but I guess the drone is, uh,
I don't know, doesn't make sense. Since Aiden is the one holding the tracking device,
the operation is botched and it's Aiden who's killed when Soledad was originally the main
target. This brutal murder hardens Soledad, so much so that she's decided she needs to assassinate
the president. She's still supposed to be one of the heroes by the way. Back with Brett. He's now
running around with the evidence from his now dead best friend that Omari is working with
Muhammad and they secretly are going to plan some sort of terrorist attack in New York City.
All while Brett is trying to stay one step ahead of the president's goons. I guess the president
wouldn't want to know about an impending terror attack because he's friends with the guy
perpetrating it. Ellen arrives in New York trying to find her husband and we learn that Muhammad
wasn't in New York to bomb the George Washington Bridge. He's actually part of a second bombing
plot, this one to detonate a nuke inside of New York City. From what I can gather, the plan
was to set off one large bomb in New York City on the George Washington Bridge. Then the president
would call back the military from Afghanistan to help with the cleanup and then with all that
military personnel concentrated they would detonate a second bomb to kill everyone. In this case the
bomb would be a nuke. Generally speaking I think detonating a nuclear weapon inside of New York City
is going to be a knockout punch no matter what comes before it or how much military may or may
not be inside there. But I'm not the terrorist mastermind in a pen Shapiro novel so what do I
know? Amari is now the guy who's detonating the nuke and his plan is to do so during the president's
big speech in New York City where he's pushing his new work freedom program. Brett mindlessly
wanders through the crowd during the president's speech when he bumps into Soledad. He notices her
arm in her purse in a way that can only be understood as her secretly holding onto a gun.
I'm not kidding here's how Ben describes that in the book. He'd seen that arm angle before.
He knew what a person looked like before they pulled a gun from concealment. He could feel
the threat before he even knew he felt it. He could feel it before he felt it. That's just
ah that's good writing isn't it? Brett grabs Soledad. The gun goes off not shooting anyone and
Brett is the one who's tackled by the president's goon as Soledad just melts into the crowd. Brett
is placed under arrest and in that commotion Amari decided not to detonate the nuke. I'm not really
sure why he waited but the president decides to fly away with his inner circle that includes
Amari and Ellen who he's decided is now a hostage to use against Governor Bubba. As they're in the
air president Prescott decides to circle over New York City a few times for a pafoto op. Seizing on
this opportunity Amari is going to threaten to detonate the nuke. Ellen rises to the occasion
in this moment by confronting Amari when all the other passengers can't described in this
unbelievable line. The other passengers looked around uncomfortably paralyzed by a peculiar
inability to overcome their political correctness. That's right the passengers are too politically
correct to stop someone trying to detonate a bomb or maybe he wasn't trying to detonate a bomb.
Amari said he wanted to negotiate with Prescott to get some sort of concession but Ellen reacts
too quickly and instead she detonates the nuke. Instead of stopping the terrorist she does his
job for him and blows up a nuke over New York City and killing hundreds of thousands. The book tells
us it's only hundreds of thousands but the blast I guess would only kill that many. The fallout would
kill millions. I don't think Ben understands fallout because Brett is in New York City when
this happens and he somehow is fine. You wouldn't be if a nuclear bomb exploded over a city the
fallout would kill so many people. Well we already know Ben doesn't understand nukes right because
of this clip. President Trump wanted to nuke hurricanes which by the way I don't even care
whether it does anything it just sounds cool. Just the idea anytime you're talking about nuking
a random thing that's not really gonna hurt anybody I'll admit the 13 year old boy of me
is kind of for it. Oh god he's so dumb. I bet you didn't expect that plot twist though right?
Ben is ending his book by nuking New York City. But wait there's an epilogue in it we find out
that our new president is going to be former VP Allison Martin who for some reason we have not
heard about until now. She blames the nuke going off on Ellen which is more accurate than she
realizes but she thinks it was because Ellen was a suicide bomber sent by the governor of Texas
which is as good a pretense as any to lead the country into a civil war. We also get a glimpse
outside of the US borders where we find an international coalition led by China including
Europe, Japan, Canada and Russia who are launching a massive invasion of the United States. This comes
completely out of nowhere and makes no sense whatsoever. It's maybe the dumbest thing in this
book and it's a very competitive field and in the closing scene we see Brett rescued from prison by
Soledad and together they're going to start a new terror cell which means a sequel.
Some people use VPN for enhanced security and safety. Personally I use it for accessing
different parts of the internet that aren't accessible in my home country of Canada. One
of my favorite shows to watch on Netflix is Kim's Convenience. It's a really great Canadian show
about a Korean family that has a convenience store in my hometown of Toronto. It just finished up
its third season but if I go to Canadian Netflix you'll see there are only two seasons. Season
three is coming on October 2nd. Of course that's not the case for other Netflixes around the world
so what I can do is open up NordVPN and with a few quick clicks I can move IP address from Canada to
the United States or maybe maybe we'll wait to the next election before trying the United States.
Instead I'll move to where my family is from that's Spain and we just click there. Nord will
find the best server to make sure I've got decent latency so the stream comes in okay
and then it switches and there we are. So I go back to Netflix, I refresh the page
and boom three seasons and that's how I use NordVPN. As part of this sponsorship viewers of this video
can get a special 70% off a three-year plan at nordvpn.com slash Jose. This special offer makes
your subscription $3.49 per month which lets you browse on all sorts of devices and if you use the
code Jose that's J-O-S-E you'll get an extra month of Nord for free. This is also a way I think
viewers can support this channel and get a little something extra back as well so do click on that
link below if you're in need of a decent VPN. Style is very subjective. I'm a fan of simple
effective prose and some writers can use language so effortlessly you could read them writing about
anything. Ben Shapiro is not one of these writers. One of the things he does in this book that
constantly bugged me were these short little one sentence paragraphs. Here's how he ends one scene.
He glanced up at the face of the secret service agent on his back. A thick burn scar marked his
face near his ear. Then everything went black. The short sentences are meant to emphasize each
one. It's like writing in bold or under lighting the sentence except less obvious. Unless you do
it all the time and Ben uses this technique dozens of times. She felt tears well in her own eyes.
She couldn't cry. Not yet. So she went to work as usual. Ben also has a problem with starting so
many sentences particularly action scenes with the word then. Then without hesitating he stabbed
the boy through the eye. When he looked up he saw the explosives packed along the ceiling.
Then he noticed a camera operated by remote in the corner of the hallway. The annoying thing
about these sentences is that they're just as effective without the word then. This is what
they look like removed and they're fine. By constantly starting a sentence with then it
creates the impression that this story is being told to me by a child. And I want to give some
special consideration to the many names Ben has come up with for this novel. Here are some of my
favorites. Brett Hawthorne. Mark Prescott. Levon Williams. Ricky O. Sullivan. Bubba Davis. Jack
Blatch. Southers. Ibrahim Ashami. Jim Balaban. Bill Collier. Billy Barron. James Easton McLawrence.
Aidan Foster. Beauregard Feldkopf. And a special shout out to Jeff Jeffords, the soldier who's only
mentioned in one paragraph where we find out his head was cut off and sent to Governor Davis.
For anyone planning to write a book where gruesome decapitation happens, try not to give
the victim a silly name like Mark Markson or Bill Billson. One thing we get a lot of in this
266 page book is characters. Dozens of them. Many appearing for no more than a few paragraphs,
but what's most telling is how these characters are presented to us. Let's take the subplot of
Ricky O. Sullivan shooting the eight-year-old boy. The boy's name is Kendrick Malone, though we
don't even learn that until after he's been murdered. The scene where the two encounter one
another is told entirely from Ricky's perspective. We see the fear, doubt, and regret through his
eyes, creating sympathy for the character. We never get Kendrick's perspective. Part of that
may be because they were trying to hide that this was a setup, but even after he dies, we do meet
his mother, Regina Malone, who's briefly described as a slightly overweight black woman. And that's
about it. She's never a focal point. We never really learn anything about her aside that she's
being used as a prop by Levon and Jim. The Malone family, although victims in this narrative, are
without a story or perspective. They're just props being used to tell us the story of a sympathetic
police officer and two conniving civil rights frauds. When we find out Officer Ricky isn't
being charged with the crime of murdering a child, we get a brief rundown of the district attorney,
Kim Donahue. She's introduced as a straight-shooting Republican who got into office after her
Democratic competition dropped out of the race because of a sex and corruption scandal. Ben
tries to give her backstory so we can feel sympathy for her when Detroit's black community
is enraged by her decision to not press charges against Ricky. Ben has no interest in even trying
to present the grievances of black residents of Detroit. People are reduced to easily manipulated
props. We get no backstory or history for Regina Malone or Kendrick. They're just there to be
manipulated by others. We can see this pattern repeated throughout the book. We get a lengthy
story and explanation to create sympathy for Soledad as she descends into terrorism. We see her flee
from her ranch, see her friend get hit with a drone strike, and then watch her try to assassinate
the president. This is taken from the final page of the book after Soledad has rescued Brett and
they're driving towards freedom. Brett looked at her. You're that terrorist. I prefer rancher.
The government made me a terrorist. No, said Brett. You make you into a terrorist.
You're free to get out at any time. Brett went silent. This part of the book could easily be
considered apologetics for a certain type of terrorism and it's all told in a way that we're
supposed to feel sympathy or compassion or at least understanding for Soledad and her actions.
This book is filled with terrorists but we never get more than the briefest explanations for why
they're doing what they do, at least when they're from the Middle East or if they're Muslim.
What's telling is who he attempts to give depth, characters whose actions he feels that need to be
rationalized as blameless like the cop who shoots an eight-year-old kid or justified like the ranchers
who decide to bomb buildings and naturally the lines being drawn are to advance a distinctly
right-wing worldview. Ben doesn't seem concerned or interested in the stories of the Black residents
of Detroit who aren't scumpags or any terrorists who are swept up under this charismatic leader or
even the charismatic leader himself. No, these are cardboard cutouts for the more detailed
protagonists to fight against. One of the major players I've only briefly touched on in this book
is the media. A quick way of understanding who the novel is trying to portray as sympathetic
is seeing what their stance towards the media is. For example, Brett and Ellen show open disdain
or disgust for the press at every turn, whereas President Prescott is enthralled by them. And
Levon uses the media as a tool for manipulation. In these two cases, the media is portrayed as being
powerful enough to lead around the most powerful man in the world but so weak and fragile that it
can be easily manipulated by a drug dealer. The media is a corrupting force in these books,
although Ben points out a few exceptions like box news or conservative bloggers. The few times we
meet reporters or journalists in this book, they're often grimy sneaks like Jack Blatch,
who spreads fallacious stories about Brett cheating on Ellen, or they're empty-headed reporters who
fawn over Leon, particularly reporters who, the book makes sure we know, are white and female.
Just to add a little extra bit of racism to this. The novel is creating this world run by the media
and that media has been captured by people with bad intent, typically activists with left-wing
politics. Considering this book itself is a piece of media, it's not a huge leap to assume
it's playing the same game, acting as a form of propaganda to advance a narrative. Damn the facts
and logic it has to trample under its feet. If the left does it, this book seems to argue,
shouldn't the right do it as well? Left-wing activists are never portrayed as honest actors
in this novel. They are often drug dealers or hustlers seizing power or environmentalists
employed by a foreign government. That one random scene in the book's epilogue of the various
nations on earth led by China uniting to invade the US isn't as random as it seems. It actually
makes perfect sense in the worldview of this book. It's presenting a vision of America that is under
siege, seemingly from within, but in truth the danger comes from outside its borders.
This is an intensely tribal book, dripping with fear and paranoia. Fear of non-Americans,
and often American people of color, as an existential threat to the United States.
And those who represent the liberal establishment are enabling these people to destroy America.
It's a bit scary to think what sort of mind produces this kind of fiction,
a mind so wracked with fear over a world that's out to destroy everything it holds valuable.
Going back to some of those quotes plastered on this book, it's even more troubling to see them
speaking on how real this book felt. And it must be a feeling because it's literally non-factual,
it's completely made up, and it's hilariously inaccurate whenever it discusses geopolitical
dynamics in the real world. Aside from the outrageous plot, to identify with the concerns
of this book is to identify with fear and paranoia. To assume the world, or more accurately America,
is headed towards chaos with one more loan to the Chinese, or every time there's a protest
over a black child being murdered. There are a few small moments in this book where I got the
impression that it was starting to sound like an honest depiction of the mainstream left in America.
I remember one speech by President Prescott that seemed to be a version of something you might have
heard former President Obama say, only not as well written. But then the game would be given
away completely by diving into Prescott's mind to get some vapid line about how much he loves
the cameras, or that he's ogling some blonde in the front row. Ben can't seem to portray left-wing
politics as anything more than a farce, as if there's nothing genuinely motivating that side
of the political spectrum. At least, not anything more meaningful than vanity. I suspect these are
the strawmen Ben wishes he was fighting against, and sometimes thinks he is. By using fiction,
he can make them say the things he thinks they secretly believe. Ironically, this book isn't
giving us a glimpse into anyone's mind, except for Ben Shapiro's. Books very rarely portray the
world in a completely comprehensive and meaningful way. In the hands of truly great writers, they
provide us insights into these small fragments that make up the human experience. What shabbier
writers reveal is something about themselves and how they see the world. Ben's book doesn't reveal
any worthwhile social commentary, rather it lets us look deep into his small paranoid mind and
displays the ugly, prejudiced lens through which he sees the world. And Ben wants us to see it that
way too. Feel like I gotta repeat, please don't read this book. I got my copy from the library,
I did not give Ben Shapiro another sale. Genuinely believe we can learn something using literary
analysis regardless of the quality of the book, and I feel like I learned something reading this,
and it wasn't a complete loss. I hope maybe you got something out of this video too. All those
names you see flashing up on the screen are my delightful, lovely patrons who make videos like
this possible. If you would also like to be one of those lovely people, you can head over to my
Patreon and offer a small monthly donation. If you'd like to support me in a non-financial way,
you can leave a comment, like this video, or subscribe to my channel if you haven't already.
Also, if you want to be updated on the comings and goings of my YouTube channel, remember to
hit that bell, it, uh, I've been told is very important. Also, you can follow me on Twitter,
ask me a question on Curious Cat. Thank you, everyone, for watching.
