From the fuckin' first episode, they've been building up these goddamn White Walkers in this fuckin' battle.
Only to then be like, oh yeah, the White Walkers are fuckin' retarded, they're going to do the dumbest shit ever,
and then, actually, more so the people are fuckin' retarded.
Yeah, let's throw all the Drothraki in the fuckin' front line, they all die within about five seconds, like literally all of them die.
After that, the line gets broken immediately, and while there are some visually stunning moments,
the visuals were the fuckin' thing that made me wanna goddamn like the episode, but the more I think about the writing,
the more I hate it, they fuckin' built up this prophecy of the Azor Ahai about John Snow,
he's gonna get that fuckin' magic sword, and he's gonna be the one to kill that motherfuckin', uh, Night- uh, Night King,
and then it's fuckin' Arya, who deus ex machinas him, with the literal exact fuckin' move that Rey used in the fuckin' throne room scene of The Last Jedi,
and just kills all the White Walkers, nobody of value fuckin' dies except for Beric and Theon, and who the fuck cared about them?
Isn't it good, though, that they subverted your expectations?
No, shut the fuck up!
We got three more episodes left, and the final boss is gonna be fuckin' Cersei.
Fuckin' Daenerys is like, we've won the last, uh, the Great War, now we have to win the last war, and it's like, oh, great.
We got three more fuckin' episodes of this bullshit, where we're gonna have to deal with, like, John being like,
so, yeah, we're kinda like, uh, related, uh, we've been having incest, can I be king now?
Like, fuck you! John's never cared about the fuckin' throne, his entire goddamn storyline has been about the fuckin' White Walkers,
and now the White Walkers are dead, and he didn't even do anything to him.
Fuck you! Oh, my God, and the fuckin' shitty thing is, is the last two episodes were really good.
Me and Mauler were so happy, we were like, fuck, it's good again, it's really fuckin' good again, and then this happened,
and we were so happy for most of the episode, and then the end happened, and it's like, what the fuck did you do that for?
And to top it all off, that fuckin' ice dragon with the blue fire, so it breathes the blue fire on the wall and blows the fuckin' thing up,
but then, when John needs to hide behind a little fuckin' rock, the ice fire can't do shit.
Well, if you have amazing insight thoughts on Iron Man 3, it's shit.
But not as shit as Game of Thrones season 8, episode 3! Fuck that!
Damn it! I fuckin' hate this show!
You made me all invested, and that got me to this fuckin' point, where all I wanted was to see John fuckin' complete his goddamn prophecy
that he was brought back to life over in season 6, but apparently the writers just fuckin' forgot about it.
And now, Azur Ahai means fuckin' nothing. Stannis is even more useless than he's ever been to Wulff.
Yes, but how do you really feel? I feel pissed! Fuck Game of Thrones, fuck season 8, fuck Dan and Dan...
Fuck that episode! It pisses me the goddamn hell off.
There is no possible fuckin' way that they can redeem themselves in the next three, because who the fuck cares about Cersei?
The most useless fuckin' bitch of the show!
Way to make the biggest fuckin' plotline of the entire series useless,
because the whole point of The White Walkers was to show that the Game of Thrones is petty and useless,
and that they should stop bickering over retarded shit like that, and fuckin' come together to fight a threat bigger than them.
Well, now the threat that's bigger than them is fuckin' done, and now they're gonna go back to arguing about dumb petty shit.
Wulff, you're just mad George RR Martin is better than Tolkien. Tolkien would rape him, and love him.
Oh, God!
Game of Thrones pulled a Mass Effect 3 ending, and that's the shitty thing! It's not even the ending!
It's not even fuckin' done yet!
The fuckin' ending hasn't even happened, and it's already shit!
How do you fuck up the best goddamn episode, or what should've been the best goddamn episode of the show?
Like, visually, that episode was incredible! There were so many shots that were like,
I wanna make that my fuckin' wallpaper!
The acting was stupendous, the effects were great, and then the story fucked it all up!
It'll be okay, Wulff, Game of Thrones was lame anyways, everything you love and care media-wise will die after getting demolished, I still love you.
Game of Thrones was not always lame, you faggot!
Game of Thrones was great for season 1 through 4, it sucked in season 5, season 6 brought it all back together,
season 7 was shit, and then season 8 started good, and now it's all bad again, and it's...
Why is it so hard for people to write a halfway decent story?
Like, really? Why is it so fuckin' hard for people to just fuckin' write a halfway consistent narrative?
It is so simple! All you have to do is not be a fuckin' tard!
But apparently, that's too goddamn difficult!
Like, the one part that you NEED to get right, and you just couldn't fuckin' do it!
It's so simple, it's fuckin' ice zombies, all you need to do is just fuckin' be competent!
God damn it! God fuckin' damn it!
I needed to get that off my chest since last night.
Chat, I love you as well. Wolf of the average 3 mile commute to the store takes 14 minutes.
Why does it take my dad 25 years to get cigarettes?
Because your dad's never comin' back!
