Oh, it's like everyone hates you.
So your parents, you're sorry, your kids, I mean, obviously,
your parents are disappointed in you, but your kids especially
are going to look back on all that and be like, man,
our dad was a fucking Jack in any Jack.
He was a butt plug.
Total one plug.
He was a butt plug.
But I mean, what if his son came out one day and said the whole boulder thing?
That was a fucking lie.
Oh, it's his secret shame.
Oh, my God.
Like his his kids side against him.
They have to bring back the family name.
It's like Palpatine.
His kid chooses a different name instead of Jarvo.
Can I be like Matt's son, Palpatine?
He chooses like something really just terrible.
That's what he wants to get rid of.
He's just like glugglton or something.
He's like, I'll take it here.
Jarbo is an embarrassing name anyway.
It sounds like a fucking circus freak.
Jarbo, the amazing bearded Jarbo, the bearded Jarbo.
I'm surprised to go with bearded Thumb Rags, but his attraction, bearded Thumb.
We are live and I managed to fix the chat and the thumbnail really quick.
Yeah. Oh, man.
All that high quality content.
You're never going to know.
And this will be our last episode rags.
I'm sad face now.
We're open on the floor.
We're spreading the Christmas cheer by shitting all over other content creators.
I don't just like Jesus would have done.
We're not going to do it like a new year's show, are we?
So, yeah, this is it.
We're not.
I don't know, are we?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Let's discuss it now.
All right. Let's discuss it now.
All right.
Mahler, you want to do a new year's show?
I'm not against the idea.
All right. Good talk.
Yeah, moving on.
So long defab number 67.
We have passed order 66, and I'm still terrified about how we can really satisfy
the audience on episode 69.
Like, what are we supposed to do, Rags?
What was what is what is the goal with that one?
Yeah, probably just just suck each other's cocks.
Yeah. All right.
Well, yeah, I thought that would be I thought that was going to be harder.
But you came up with a very easy answer.
I don't know how I got the idea in my head.
We're joined by we got a full cast once again celebrating the end of the year
with all these people who have been here before.
This is impossible to introduce you individually.
So I'm just going to do it all the same time.
What is it?
Yeah, abbreviated it's Jobel Kefir.
They're all I thought you were.
I thought you're going to be like, I'm going to say all their names at once.
Yeah, just that's what I thought.
I was kind of I was kind of looking forward to see given that a try.
How can I say four things at once?
That's impossible.
Um, that's the that's what good writing is, smaller.
Well, I could do it if I had time to edit myself.
You know what subtext is?
That's a metanarrative idiot.
Metanarrative.
So you don't even know what Star Wars is about.
You just watch it.
Oh, look at my family.
Is it, though?
That's why it's great.
Is it about family when she literally turns it back on her beloved Palpatine
and chooses a different family?
What's that about?
Hmm.
It is weird that the last shot I was supposed to supposedly about family.
And the message of this one was, you know,
fuck you, isn't thicker than water.
Water is much thicker than water.
Choose your own family.
That's how wonderful it is.
You make your own family, guys.
Ew.
What do you mean?
You make your own family, though.
Yeah, you can.
Yeah.
That's someone I'm in your family now.
Smile.
Just do it all the way now, to say the least.
Well, in your family, I am.
Yes, I guess I'll give it a shot, though.
I'm going to go for quickly.
What? Oh, sorry.
Now you can go ahead.
No, what the fuck are you going to say, Chase?
Come on.
Why is this fun?
It was important enough to start.
It's important enough to finish.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry.
I was just going to say I'm more of a video game guy.
I barely know anything about Star Wars,
but I did see this movie.
I did not financially contribute to it.
So I feel better about that.
Wow, I should have kept that to yourself.
Yeah, you fucking thief.
I want to tell Papa Disney.
I'll be the idiot occasionally asking questions, like, what?
What's a Skywalker?
What are Jedi?
So this Rey person, she's like, she's the best character,
I suppose.
Saga's been all about her, I guess.
From the beginning, when George started it all in, what,
77?
It was all about Rey.
He didn't know it, but it was all about Rey.
Imagine, like, there was a clip, this little, like,
old style and shit, and they're on set for Empire Strikes Back.
And you just get a clip of George being like,
you know, I want all of this to really lead to Rey.
That's the important part.
Like, what the fuck?
Like, George, no.
Like, Catholic.
He's like, see?
He ruined it.
Not me.
See?
It was George all along.
Jorge.
So yeah, I guess I will do the whole, like, one by one.
I'm going to go from right to left on my screen.
My screen's the important screen, just so you know.
So Chase Face, hello there.
You've got a Christmasy avatar.
That means you win.
You won.
Cool.
Thank you.
How are you?
What's happening?
Woke up about an hour ago.
Didn't get a lot of sleep, because I stayed
up late watching JoJo.
Yeah, hi.
How is Joseph Jones?
Well, I'm not going to spoil anything,
but let's just say part three, highly overrated, come at me.
Oh, my goodness.
You don't even know what JoJo.
We can worry.
You've got a response to that.
We talked about Joseph Joseph.
Beat him up, Joseph.
Everyone's entitled to their own opinion, even if it's wrong.
There you go.
Listen to me, you little fucking shit.
I've better taste than you.
You fucking perch.
I disagree.
So, Molly, did you know that the reason the reason they're
called JoJo is because their last names are Joestar,
and then the first character is like Joseph,
and then Jonathan, Joseph, Joe Taro, Josuke.
So that's like the meme is that I can't wait to see
this wonderful show.
Wow.
So their names are all familiar.
If you can't get your protagonist's name properly,
I don't know that I'm going to commit.
That's just IMO.
IMO.
Yeah, IMO.
IMO.
Fair.
But yeah, speaking of the piss and who
despises your perspective on anime, weekend warrior, welcome.
How do you do?
Hello.
I despise his perspective.
Yay.
We will be fighting this entire stream.
Oh, great.
I think this is a personal joke at all.
Battle lines are drawn.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, I know that the Efap audience would be like,
anime podcast, yes.
And we're going to be like, no, no.
No.
No.
Just some random weaves.
If ever there's anime.
You guys wrong.
Podcast, it'll have to do my homework for ages.
There are not enough dollars in the cosmos.
What is a waifu?
Silence waifu.
It's a waifu.
It's like the modern communion.
It's like the body of a waifu.
Yeah.
Yeah, that would want a Jesus waifu.
Yeah.
Oh.
Jesus cookie.
So anime is very Christian, is what you're saying.
Oh, yes.
Yeah, it's got a lot of Christian ties.
Oh, OK.
A lot of it.
Learn it in a lot.
Imagery.
The subtext is.
I know stuff about laser swords and space wizards,
but I don't know a lot about animu.
That's my weakness, if you will.
I will teach you.
OK, so I will teach you.
The ways of the weeb.
Big guest is the wonderful Jay Longbone, who loves anime.
Talk a bit about it.
Yeah.
The only anime I've truly watched all the way through
is Death Note.
The one with the fucking the middle age giants.
Oh.
Wait, is that my last story?
Right.
Very descriptive attack on death.
And I might have seen in a little bit of Dragon Ball Z.
Not bad, not bad.
Decent spread.
Decent selection.
How are you?
How has your crimp-onium been?
Oh, yeah, I've been good.
Holidays have been good so far.
Did you?
Oh, you watched Infinite Crisis, part one, right?
Oh, yeah.
Have you watched more of it yet?
No.
Infinite Crisis.
So, yeah, I guess update on that.
Those those are stuck in copyright hell
on the website of things.
I'm going to get them sorted as soon as I'm done with my
my next video that I'm currently working on.
Oh, I could probably talk more about that toward the end.
But yeah, it's wonderful, isn't it?
Did you see episode two yet?
The Batwoman episode was episode two.
Oh, right. Right. Apparently.
You have to keep keep your keep it straight, Mahler.
Fucking I know there's so much there's so much quality
that it when I found out that episode five
was the Legends of Tomorrow episode, I was like,
what the hell does that mean?
That's a TV show filled with like an Avengers ripoff team.
I was like, oh, is it cold?
But the hot they both have guns that fire cold and hot.
That's OK.
They're a team.
They're called freezer burn.
Oh, nice. I like it.
I'm not watching that shit.
Oh, me, frame, metal and rags are all excited to see how it's going to end.
I can't wait.
I can't wait to see what happens to these beloved characters.
I can't wait to see your reactions.
That's a fucking good ass series.
You guys got going on, man.
It is a wild ride to the Zooms, the Zooms really make
the ridiculous reactions extra worth it.
Never would have thought you'd work with you with your little circle pictures.
And yet it's like animated to a point where it actually feels like
they're ideal or something.
I like when you predict something and you just put the text
on with the piano, like, why do we even bother?
We don't even use screens.
Because it's written in an afternoon by subdued.
It was like, hey, I can do this.
I can't wait.
I learned this in college film school.
And yes, last but not least, Mr.
E.R., how do you do so?
I do very well.
How's have you been?
You got a choice of subjects, you know, anime, Christmas
or infinite crisis.
You can talk about any of those three things.
I choose anime. Isn't that why I was brought on?
Mm hmm. All right.
This is the.
And diabetes is one of the best enemies available.
Yes. Finally, a good take.
Did it getting sour reviews from different people?
That's just, you know, they don't understand the deeper themes,
the better textual narratives.
Yeah, the layers of diabetes is the gluten.
Much like the fold of diabetes, diabetes,
character, like what would be his fucking that would be?
No, his character arc would be like the mathematical arc of his rotundness.
Mm hmm. Like many degrees.
That's his arc.
Once they discover his radius, they'll be like, he'll get a new power.
And you would be mistake if you were close enough to diabetes.
You would be forgiven for thinking that he was flat.
Like this is not actually a massive globe.
The season three cliffhanger is things start to orbit him.
And he's like, no, like at first he likes it
because small things float towards him like snacks and other food items.
But then it's, you know, living animals.
And well, not actually, I probably wouldn't stop him.
A scissors starts to come toward him and he's like, good lord.
And that's that's where it cuts.
And it says directed by, you know, Steven Spielberg.
It's so many pops like a balloon.
Well, we don't know yet. Season four is an outrags.
What do you mean? Oh, my God.
I read the leaks on the extensive, the extensive leaks.
I want to say really quickly, not to deviate from diabetes too much,
but people in chat are saying that Cowboy Bebop, very good anime.
Yes. Anyone who has not seen anime and would like to explore
and make a foray into that genre.
Cowboy Bebop is very normie friendly.
That's a pretty bold take there.
Pretty controversial saying that anime is a great anime.
I know. It's very underrated opinion.
When we all know the best one is
what's the typically known horrible anime chase?
I can say it make it funny.
Sword Art Online. It's not.
I don't even I don't even I don't even watch anime, but I know that. Yep.
I watch the that's the one where the video game ever gets trapped inside, right?
Yeah, it's like a VR MMO life.
So that's the first anime I was ever showed.
No wonder I got put off.
Yeah, no, it's bad. Music's good about it.
I've told the story on the streams before, but like a friend of mine
who really wanted to start watching anime, that was one of his favorites.
And the crazy weird thing was we watched the first couple
and I was like, this is meh.
Then he was like, no, no, it gets better.
We finished episode six or seven and I still wasn't into it.
And he said, well, there's no point now because it only gets worse.
And I was like, oh, we stopped.
Well, I guess.
Mahler, you sci fi man, you know, you need a fucking an anime
about a bunch of anime characters in an MMO wanting to fuck each other
and making really bad decisions.
That seems like your forte to see how this could ever go south.
Well, I mean, I got my fill of that sort of thing from South Park,
that one episode where they're in World of Warcraft. This is close enough.
It's a good episode.
We just make love, not war craft.
I think it's like one of the top rated episodes of all time for this show.
It's really good.
Even though I'm showing what World of Warcraft experts
probably like, that doesn't make sense.
Yeah, that's not lore friendly.
You know what? They they would be.
I would accept it.
I would just be like, but remember, South Park, it doesn't make sense as a whole.
The reaction from Chad is making me want to just like
schedule a separate efap where it's just like me, weekend warrior
and maybe a couple other people.
And we just like fucking debate anime opinions.
Well, me and Ryan are just sitting in the background making comments.
Yeah, one in the chat if that's something like, oh, sure.
She's definitely a two thousand year old dragon spirit.
Is that the one where they fly at the one with the laces?
That's a never ending story.
The anime.
Oh, yeah, I know.
This thing is so sad because, I mean, we just we we watch stuff
like the Mandalorian.
I mean, you're a good real anime instead of fake crappy
normie anime like Jojo's or whatever.
But you say that, but the Mandalorian is kind of become like an anime.
What do you mean, Rags?
Here we go.
Could this be his most controversial take?
Mandalorian shit.
Oh, what?
And if you like it, you're wrong.
If you like it, then you've been fooled by the mouse.
Wait, why is everyone saying one? What happened?
I said, say one, if you'd like us to fucking have like a separate
anime podcast, even luckily, the things that you say don't count.
That's true. That's true.
I say it as no bearing on any official.
You know, there was things we could just just ignore that like it didn't even happen.
There's an underrated comment earlier.
I wanted to read out that said have you say very similar to.
Very similar to you know, the hard part was probably in the sentence.
You had to read it out in, wasn't it?
Hmm. Well, I've had a lot of practice, a lot of practice.
Good memes.
Good, good, good, good, good.
Yeah, we actually plan to have a Mandalorian podcast at some point
once we set it all up.
But today we were going to be talking about good old fashioned.
Stair was or we're going to be talking about the good Star Wars.
Eyes of Skywalker.
The very good Star Wars.
Let's do our initial like roundtable thing.
You know, if have knows me and Rags perspective on it.
But you four folks, what's what's give you mini reviews?
Who would like to go first?
It's garbage volunteering.
Oh, whoa, whoa, calm down.
How could you say that?
Our children watching.
May I go first?
Just because my opinion will probably be you won't be first.
Jay Long, you would now be second.
Oh, I didn't even know the tension.
Get rich from actively.
Sorry, I'm sorry.
It's OK.
Like we could edit this bit out.
So we'll edit it out.
We'll edit it out. Yeah.
First up is Jay's face.
So how much did you enjoy Rise of Skywalker?
Uh, not too much.
It's a very busy.
Too much comedy.
A lot of sort of Ghostbusters esque improv.
Yeah, too much comedy.
I don't think there was enough.
I know I laughed a lot of it like I definitely laughed at the C3PO parts,
but I was like, man, yeah, no, the C3PO parts were good
where he's just like, you didn't ask, but I'm fine.
Like that part was like, but yeah, that's it.
That's the height of the comedy of the film that's intended.
You go, yeah, well, a little,
you know, a little bit about Bauman and breathing out of breathing air out of my nose.
Mm hmm.
Fucking Kylo Ren is like he has like a lot of neck fat
when he's trying to look really serious and fights and he left it out for me.
He's just a soggy human.
Like, that's how. Yeah, he's a fucking soggy person.
It doesn't help that he's covered in seawater for half the local
like random mile and in PE class and just is struggling to exist with it.
That's about it.
Next person.
It was better than The Last Jedi, but it's like asking
which piece of shit you want to eat. It's.
You thought it was better.
That's the controversial subject right now.
I like it. Creamy.
Just just because it shat on Ryan Johnson that that.
It's a fair enough reason.
Yeah, I thought there were parts that I found entertaining.
Like there are bits and pieces that were good.
Like I think the worst part of it is that when they were bantering,
I could feel that they could have developed a nice friendship,
but everyone really fucked it up because they didn't plan this whole trilogy.
So there you go developing friendships.
Oh, yeah, it's about family.
Yeah, they have irritation.
Irritation. That's what Star Wars is about.
Um, you know, you're the only one left.
I'm so sorry, but we're going to have to ask what do you
what you thought of the rise of the Skywalker?
I thought it was the best.
Of all of them.
Even better than the last Jedi, even better than the Phantom Menace.
Those are very close, especially the last Jedi.
You know, maybe we can argue that.
Um, the the from what I tell a lot of people seem to I mean,
people who like to obviously thought the rise of Skywalker was worse,
but our community was split right down the middle on that vote.
They they feel as though they're both really just pieces of shit.
And I'm not going to be the one to say no to that.
I think that that's true.
Legit surprised at how incredibly even the hatred
was dispensed between the two movies.
It's like poetry.
It is like poetry.
So we've got a whole.
Well, I say a whole selection.
We've got three options in terms of who to approach
for the rise of Skywalker take.
Now, I don't I don't necessarily have a preference
on which one we approach first.
I don't know if what do you guys reckon if we let the chat choose
or if we just sort of decide between ourselves?
Yeah, go for it.
I mean, chats never steered us wrong before.
Yep. Are they not?
Audience interaction is fun. Yeah.
I would be curious.
I would kind of be curious as to who they would want us to cover first, though.
Yeah. All right.
Well, the the options are I was I was going to put movie Robert
and I was like, no, diabetes.
Oh, I have to do nicknames for this man.
You got diabetes, Quentin and mundane Matt,
all with a fiery hot take about, I guess, the state of this movie.
This is going to be good.
So we can, you know, I'll drop it in for you guys first.
You get first dibs on the boat.
Oh, boy. This is where the fun begins.
It's too much potential.
Oh, man. All right.
OK. Oh, my goodness.
I'll post it in chat in a moment.
Get ready to vote. All right.
But we should have one, two, three.
We should have six votes here. We got three.
OK, so really for clarification, what do you mean precisely by consume?
To watch. Oh, what did you think that meant?
Do you mean we were going to eat the person?
Yeah, like like like absorbing the door.
OK, yeah.
And gain their powers, in which case a loss of Quentin and diabetes.
Oh, you know, there's there's there's some stuff for all of them.
All right. And I shall put the results on the screen now.
So exciting. I know.
It's you know, you do you see all these votes porn in the like
and like the live
the percentage versus actually like IRL moving.
I like watching the bars move.
Look at them like, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop.
I like seeing the numbers go up.
That is, you know, close to equalizing.
Yeah, there really is.
Keep it steady, guys.
It's like bouncing the likes and dislikes on a channel.
Could this video get to that?
Yeah, that's a little bit closer than I thought it'd be.
Oh, wow.
And they had continues to be irrelevant.
Both diabetes.
He's up against diabetes than you.
And in diabetes, like he gets people to quit our streams because the headaches.
He's going to rather watch him.
If diabetes wins, I reserved the right to get some whiskey first.
It looks like he's going.
He's currently. Oh, God. Here we go again.
I think Monday has lost his his chance.
Oh, rip, rip the boulder.
The story of his life.
Take that, Jorbo.
Jada Bo.
I will. I'll post it one more time in case people like that fuck is the link.
Why? Why?
But why? It's like it's like watching.
We should have put down bets for what the chat we're going to do.
Yeah, it's gambling on it.
They beat us the season finale villains.
I mean, he's going to be the series finale village. Yeah.
We've never seen Diabito acquit of the same room.
They're obviously the same guy.
There's a chance.
Is there any chance that like one of your fans can make
like some deep fap lore and Diabito is like the Palpatine of our series?
Because I would fucking genuinely enjoy that.
He's been pulling the strings or the sugar from the beginning
and hoarding the insulin to unkempt men
with terrible movie takes never seen in the same room together.
Monday, Matt, on the other hand,
they different, different entirely that doesn't apply to him.
Monday, Matt's.
Oh, yeah, fuck. You're right.
I forgot about Monday, Matt.
Just just the world. Oh, no.
Well, should we give them how long should we give them?
It's pretty close, but I'll have to do some kind of like we stop now or something.
Three minutes, three minutes.
All right, fine.
I'm going to get my little vlog.
I'll wait for it to go.
1943. That's what I'm waiting for.
No, 1944. Yeah.
Good year.
As soon as it says that I will.
Oh, that is when the the the the choice will have been decided.
The suspense is killing me.
It's undeniably incredibly intense. Yes.
I'm starting to think that people might be trying to like level
the two of them just to see what happens.
We play both videos at the same time.
Oh, great.
Oh, yeah, they're neck and neck.
Do you think Quinton and diabetes would get along?
No, no, no, no, no one.
I don't think diabetes just can't get along with people.
YouTubers in general.
YouTubers are so fucking up their own asses.
I don't think anyone with like a strong opinion would get along
with anyone else with a really strong opinion.
I felt that way about all five of you. Yes.
Yeah, great.
You're not wrong.
Um, oh, no, Monday, Matt, you could do it, buddy.
Come on, give us that.
Give us an amazing opinion on.
Just anything.
We just got Quinton and diabetes sprinting ahead.
We're watching which one's going to win, but that's like something
for once in your life.
Diabetes sprinting, you sure? Rolling.
You know, when Magneto does the he like lifts up,
he's that's what he's doing just really slowly, I guess.
I will give the link out one last time.
So if you want to, you know, you want to get in on this,
you want to get your hero covered on eFAB out of these three people
because I know they've got a lot of fans and vote now.
Say it ain't so.
Wait, Quinton pulled in front of diabetes now. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
But actually, it might be less less draining to go in that order.
Oh, maybe. I mean, if you if you were to.
What did you vote for, everybody? What's your reason?
I voted. I voted for Quinton.
Because I voted Quinton, too.
I voted. I think he's going to have some some funny things to say.
While Diabeto's movie review will probably just be like,
he has no fucking clue of what everyone's actually upset or happy about.
He'll just like it.
It has to go in a certain order, like joy, headache, joy. Mm hmm.
Is it a joy to have a Monday mat?
Oh, you mean Quinton, Diabeto and then Monday met.
Is it? Well, OK, the question stats, is it a joy to cover Monday, man?
Do you find it to be joyful?
Is he a joyful person?
I mean, he's funny.
You know what? You're right.
Well, we're at 44.
I think the Quintins have it.
Hooray. How exciting.
The Cues have it.
Hope you proud of yourself, everybody.
When we go through this video, everyone did a chat.
You did it, chat. You did it. You did it, guys.
Why did you do it? Great work.
Here's a link for all of you to jump inside.
It will take you to a whole watch together.
Wait, that beato was defeated.
Oh, no. Can't even win a race in like a metaphorical sense.
No one's going to mention it, but they're about losing.
It's like, well, we know that naturally.
No, no shit.
I guess, yeah, Quinton can be all warm up.
Keep boulders, Matt.
Is is everybody in?
Well, you know, I'm not.
Oh, my God. I want to ask is
does my mind look at all this editing?
Oh, God, look at him.
Oh, it's probably cool.
You know, OK, you know that
you know that Spongebob episode, the old one,
where the big green fish comes into the Krusty Krab and what a sentence.
And he can never be satisfied
no matter how excellent the food is made.
That's what Clinton looks like now.
You know, I'm talking about I don't know enough Spongebob memes.
I'm so sorry. Yeah, I mean.
I believe you.
All right.
Is everyone seeing the word spoilers on the screen?
Yes. Yes.
So everyone, if you don't want to have the rise of Skywalker
spoiled for you, please.
Stay super quick before we get into it.
I want to ask this.
Does my mic sound kind of crappy and like staticky or like low quality?
It's mostly OK.
Sounds fine. It's really just the opinions that are low quality.
Because I was going to say, for some reason, Discord does that.
But my mic is the same exact settings as when I record for my videos.
So apparently the character's name was Bubble Bass ranks.
Bubble Bass.
Quinton is Bubble Bass.
Still no pickles.
Is that something he says?
I don't know.
Still no pickle.
All right.
Let the opinions begin.
So, yeah, context, right?
This is our first ever podcast finally covering what you could call
crappy video essays of Rise of Skywalker.
Me and Rise have been doing this for like nearly two years for TLJ.
Finally, we get to evolve as critics and cover the next one.
The sequel. So here we go.
Quinton, you know, he's he's like the inaugural video essayist.
Even I don't even know if you can call this that.
I don't really care.
I just find it pretentious, which is, you know, he nails it.
So here goes, guys, exciting stuff.
All right. Get on with it.
I mean, it's a good time.
It's been 12 seconds.
We could read the one word.
But it's a primer.
It's like this is what you're going to leave now.
Guys, funny joke, funny joke time.
Come on. Wait, wait.
Oh, OK, guys.
You know, if you smell spoilers backwards, it's Sirely ops.
Nice. Got him.
Yeah. So you're fucked.
Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo.
Oh, that was funny.
You should have done that.
You know, acoustic tiles.
You don't fucking need acoustic tiles.
I don't have acoustic tiles.
Yeah. Do you have acoustic tiles?
No, but a professional has acoustic tiles.
I haven't had time.
So if if I sound like bad, it's if I sound as bad as I look,
it's because I don't have my acoustic tiles set up.
Is that how you spell acoustic?
Yeah. No, because one acoustic is he's not three.
Wait, what?
Oh, yeah, I thought it was spelled acoustic.
Oh, maybe it's a British.
Maybe it's British spelling.
No, he's retarded.
No. Did you mean?
Yeah. Then it asked if if I meant acoustic.
Yeah. No, he spelled it wrong.
I'm pretty sure it's got I've never seen it spelled that way.
But no, acoustic with three C's is on Dumptionary dot com.
What is that?
I guess it's where the dumb people spell.
Dumptionary. Yeah, there's yeah.
It's a you see, here's a here's a picture right there.
It's on the double because if I type in the one with a double C,
it just links me to the correct one.
That's all. Are you sure you didn't mean the right word?
I like that that one says like, hey, idiot.
You're like, oh, all right.
I mean, maybe that's the joke
because, you know, the font and then the non capitalized.
Yeah. You know.
And this smiley face and sad face. Yeah.
There you go. Got it.
There you go. Let's let's throw him a bone. Whatever.
There you go. Oh, yeah.
So I can't wait for the take about how there's a three hour podcast
and all they talked about was my spelling of acoustic.
Well, I've seen I saw his his ContraPoints video.
He had terrible audio in that whether or not he had tiles.
Like he did. Fucks up things all the time.
And I think he's just like, hey, not my fault.
This is the thing that happened that ruined it.
And it's like, maybe it's you. I don't know.
It's the lack of acoustic piles.
Is he sure it's not because his mic is like fucking
three miles away from his face?
Well, this is the thing.
I think there are there are things he could do
in order to circumvent these issues.
And I don't think he chooses to do them because that would require
things called time and another things called effort.
But that's fine.
I'm sure we can still hear him. And that's the important thing.
Oh, I know this looks like the exact same room,
but I swear it's a different one.
So I saw the rise of Skywalker and it was really bad.
And you'd think I'd be mad.
But I'm really glad in actuality,
in actuality, in actuality, in actuality.
That's such a moment of like, if I was I don't know,
if I was helping script to be like,
wouldn't you want to just say, actually, instead of I don't know.
Let's look at this fucking unit.
Oh, look at his glasses.
I can't I just point out he has the sex doll at the back.
Do you know the law?
Oh, my God. Is that the sex doll?
Yes, it is. Yeah.
Oh, my God. It's Mickey.
Oh, my God.
Is that after he fucked it in the face?
Is why it looks so.
I think you know this fucking thing on the regular.
Oh, no, please.
He's like, guys, I got a sex doll.
It's a joke about the joke about it.
They're even wearing the same type of shirt like
Oh, my God.
No, what is that?
The they have no their place.
It's like something glad.
Yeah. Oh, my God.
Well, two of those.
At least it's not like a low up doll that actually looks like decent quality.
It looks like you might have to spend at least like two hundred dollars
on a model like that.
Not that I want to know.
Wow. No, that's been more.
How did you know that?
No, I just I look on the pictures on the Internet a lot.
I'm just saying that are nicer than others.
I'm just saying that these ads tailored to my search history
just keep showing to me and I don't get it.
I don't know how they got their officer.
I must be my my girlfriend.
Yeah, she's my computer.
It looks them up all the time.
The sad thing is he spent he spent a grand on that thing.
This is an eFap wiki, apparently.
If you go to diabetes entry, it currently says also known as Bob Chickman
or movie, Bob is the evil mastermind of the series pulling the strings all along
or the sugar behind the scenes.
It's already up to diabetes.com.
It's just a visual entry.
Oh, my God. Also, what did you what was a weekend?
You said like shut the fuck up, but in your alien language, what was it?
Yeah, yeah. Chotomatte.
That's cool. I like it. Chotomatte.
Yeah. Sounds like sounds like an anime thing.
Oh, my God.
Butomatte. Anyway, let's let's listen to the Internet
sensation. Yeah, in actuality.
We will listen to him. Yeah, yeah.
Not much of anything.
The first scene in this movie is Kylo Ren tracking down Palpatine
and he meets him and Palpatine's like a zombie.
And he's been put back together with like robot bits.
And well, I guess he's a professional YouTube reviewer.
For a second, I was thinking like he's like a cyborg.
I guess. Yeah, I have a cyborg.
Why does he sound bored?
Because he doesn't want to make videos anymore.
I remember someone like me, a video of his where he explains
how he's permanently downgrading his quality because he just can't be fucked.
Like, oh, man, he would used to do like full editing.
But now he's in a position of being like, look, I'm just going to vlog.
That's what that's what's happening now.
It's like, oh, good guys.
I mean, Jane Nicholson gets along just fine.
Jebby Nicholson. I mean, Jebby Nichols, right?
That's so sorry.
But I guess he wants to reach those those degrees of quality.
I suppose it's not bad.
Yeah, she films her videos in a supernova.
I can only explain how over exposed her videos are.
No, that if you say that that means you hate women.
Stop it. Maybe I do.
Maybe. Oh, God, she makes me want to hate him so bad.
That's that's your internalized misogyny talking, Miss Longbone.
It is, it is.
And he says to Kylo Ren, you and I shall work together.
You will be my new daughter.
Well, it sounds like the controversy.
It's like a medieval mob boss.
It's like wants to do a voice, but he just can't be fucked to put in the effort.
My voice doesn't go that low.
You and I will go in the universe.
Yes, that was the one thing about Palpatine to this movie.
He, you know, he he came back all cylinder's fire and he sounded like
like he wanted to fuck up the stars universe.
And he was going to unfortunately, Quinton can't do the Emperor voice.
That's fine.
Oh, our impressions were always like, what the fuck's happening?
Oh, yeah, we all have a limit.
Kylo Ren pay the price for your lack of visual no buy.
We're going to do episode six again, except this time it's got to be bigger.
And immediately that represented to me everything that I didn't want Star Wars to be.
All right. Well, yeah, it sounds like it's a big expectations.
Yeah, why didn't you like it?
It's the prettier expectations.
That's the best fucking thing in the universe.
I mean, it just like, you know, it's so easy to just flip the arguments.
We can do this all year.
Her eggs is going to be great.
2020 will just be the year of.
Well, maybe you hate Asian people.
And I think about that.
I they must hate women.
They must hate Asians or they must hate something.
Jevi unironically put out a tweet saying that, like, if a guy says
that he thinks Rose Tico is like a worthless character, it's going to be a race thing.
Like what?
Why?
I didn't see that because I got blocked.
Thankfully, I was blocked.
Yeah, she didn't like Rose Tico.
He's clearly a race thing.
And then the comments were quick to point out.
Ah, but it could be a woman thing.
Very true.
So what if we just don't like fucking fit galaxy brains over there?
Not possible.
It represented everything the sequel trilogy needed to avoid becoming
in order to be worthwhile and stand alone.
And Tommy just didn't.
OK, I mean, Star Wars wasn't already being like
it was going to be a spectacle.
No, I'm sorry. Sorry.
Not episode four. Episode seven was totally that is complete rip.
I guess TLJ was like half a rip.
And then Rise of Skywalker is only really a ripoff at the end
where it's like Palpatine trying to convert someone to the dark side
but also showing all of their friends die through a big window.
That's like hooray.
Yeah, you know, I guess he's right that they copied some stuff. Sure.
In order to be worthwhile and stand alone.
And it just didn't feel like a scene from a real Star Wars movie.
But the thing is that this ended up being the perfect tone setter for the film
because it told me everything I needed to know about what this film
was going to try and be and how unsuccessful it was going to be
and actually becoming that it is set out to be what it shouldn't be.
And it was unsuccessful being what it shouldn't have been.
So it was what it should happen.
I tell you, it's like JJ fucked up into making a masterpiece.
It was it was going to be terrible, but he fucked that up.
You're like, wait, all right.
It turned out amazing.
More, more.
So instead of continuing to care during that opening scene,
I did what Yoda suggested in episode three and episodes five.
I allowed myself to become detached from my investment
and thus I didn't feel anger.
I didn't feel any dark emotions.
I just sat back in my chair and I laughed.
I laughed a lot.
Not at the price of this guy.
Solidarity. We love to.
When when Ray blew up Chewy, for example, that was
I was like, oh, my God, they did it.
What else? What else are the big laugh moments?
Probably when she said, like, thank God C3P is still OK.
Babu Frick reentering the film that had me going.
I was like, hey, Babu, thank God.
They made sure to show us that he was on that little starship on the dashboard.
For me, it had to be Ray with the shark teeth.
Oh, yeah, that's great.
It was dark, a Bilbo moment.
Scary Bilbo.
Yeah. Oh, my God.
Bill
it got no past.
I've had a lot of people say that when when Ben died or when they kissed,
a lot of people theaters were laughing.
It's so the 86 percent.
You know, if you know if JJ was in the cinema with me and I laughed at Babu Frick
coming back and he asked me, he was like, yeah, a successful comedic moment.
I'd be like, no, no, no.
They'd be like, what?
I'd be like, you got these two characters from a planet
that they spent apparently their lives on and they couldn't escape.
And you blew it all up.
You killed everyone they've ever known.
And then they just in the ship and like, hey, we're back.
It's unreal.
You have this little alien going.
I couldn't believe it.
I was like, wow.
Like, damn it, the one time I really needed to escape.
I couldn't do it.
I'm going to blow this up.
It's so odd because it's like she survived,
but the audience will be concerned that the funny alien survives.
We'll put him in there.
What about the entire crew that she mentioned?
Are they all dead?
Oh, my God.
Remember how she said, like, children are taken from that planet?
Well, yeah, they're not taken from it anymore.
Yeah, you don't have to worry about any of that.
Well, they'll never steal your children ever again.
Yeah.
Well, it wasn't what was like Yesen's formula.
It's like you need to free a slave for every person you kill.
And you're right.
I don't know what his mathematical equation for goodness was.
I don't think he ever wanted to really pin that one down.
We will say a blank much.
We will get a science on it.
It'll happen to laugh at.
Just in general, I didn't laugh all the time.
I held it back a little to respect the other people in the theater.
But pretty much the moment that the movie ended, I was like, I really wanted to laugh
more, but my theater was dead.
And I was like, oh, man, I don't want to be that guy
because I know that people will be like, can you please stop?
And I'll be like, no, it's like, no, but we expect it.
You don't want to be you don't want to be the De Niro and Cape Fear.
Yeah, good reference.
It was dark and they'll never see me again.
Fuck it. That's true.
What if they were like, I recognize your voice and you're like, oh, fuck.
You leave.
I tell them I'm quitting reviews.
It's me.
I couldn't hold it in.
I just stood up, ran out of the theater and I started laughing.
And I like walked out of the parking lot in the freezing cold.
I walked for like a few pictures running out of the theater.
On his own and just laughing.
And I can't imagine all of that happens.
And also, I don't believe it.
Ex to doubt.
I just I mean, if it did, though, I could just picture people
in like the sort of I don't know, just just the rooms or the parking lot outside.
Just look at him like, what are you doing?
He's like, oh, it's so funny, though.
So funny, though.
You just would get it.
He probably just like chuckled a little bit.
And then he's like, I'm really going to hand this up in my review.
That spoiled jar of sauerkraut is really enjoying himself, right?
Sack of potatoes.
Mile laughing the whole time, people walking by
must have thought I must have thought I was a madman.
And I don't know what I was laughing at.
Was I laughing at how bad the movie was?
Oh, I needed an edit.
They were like, we're just like zoomed in on a black and white.
He's like, I was experiencing something, laughing at something.
But I didn't know what amnesia is this enjoyment?
What was happening to me?
Had to find out.
That's a fucking breakdown, existential crisis.
Soundtrack kicks in, shows like loads of locations.
And he's like, I had to go to the source that.
What did I do that day?
What did you eat?
He's only one man who can help me.
My father, the door opens up this diabetes.
My son, you have returned.
I'm getting deeper.
You have returned. You're finally back.
Good picture, though, by the end of the trailer, it's like epic,
choir music and diabetes rising up with things floating around.
The rise of diabetes.
This is the movie.
And I would pay good money.
I would fucking.
Yeah, I would actually pay.
That's like kickass your levels of entertainment.
He's levitating two liter bottles of Sunkist.
A little bit, was I laughing at sort of the cultural phenomenon
which had evolved out of these movies, which turned out to be a total letdown?
A lot, yeah.
But maybe I was also laughing at myself.
No.
Or a version of myself that I could imagine who was invested in this film.
Or maybe, just maybe, I actually secretly still cared
a whole lot and laughing was just my coping mechanism.
When I got out of the theater, I tweeted out something like that was so bad.
I can't fucking believe it.
I walked out of the theater laughing and people didn't know if I was talking
about Star Wars or Cats, which how do cats is a masterpiece?
Cats, wonderful.
I haven't seen it yet, but I'm sure it is.
I haven't either. I've heard only good things.
Anybody here seen it?
I've heard a lot of jokes.
Me and my mom tried to watch it, and she wanted me to turn the fuck off after.
There you go.
All right, then.
That's the review, guys.
Yay. Thanks. Thanks for watching.
Which I think is a funny parallel.
And when I responded that I was talking about Star Wars,
someone asked me, is this the worst Star Wars movie?
Is it worse than The Phantom Menace?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
That's not even the bomb.
You've got to go further.
You've got to go all the way to The Last Jedi.
I'm sorry. That's the last Jedi.
Oh, oh, oh, there you go.
I thought most people picked Attack of the Clones as the worst instead of Phantom Menace.
I guess I guess I'm wrong on that.
I don't know.
What are people? How does the world feel on that?
Does anyone remember?
With The Last Jedi?
No, like what do people typically think is with The Phantom Menace or Attack of Clones?
I can't remember Attack of the Clones.
I think people say his words.
You sure? Hmm.
Cats is unironically better.
I would be surprised.
We're going to check that out for you, fat movies, eventually.
Yeah, well, we'll take a look.
We will. I think.
I'm eager to see how just how terrible Cats is.
I think it's going to be an experience.
You can't get through.
We just abandon like we can't.
This is not enough material of us reacting because we're all stunned, silent,
like staring at the screen like, oh, God, I'm sure Cats are more entertainment value.
Yes.
The response is it's not the worst Star Wars movie,
but only because the prequels are so badly made that they're unwatchable.
But it's not really.
I mean,
at least you knew at least with the prequels, you knew George Lucas wanted to make those.
Like he had his passion put into those.
But this but these new ones are just like, oh, look, let's
look, let's just make this shit.
We need we need money, money, green.
It's hard.
You shouldn't necessarily be at this point.
But like what I would say is like, well, prequels made a lot more sense.
And I understood the stakes clearer.
And I could actually be like, oh, my goodness, I can understand the
both positive outcome and negative outcome of these scenes.
While with these films, it's like force healing.
You're like, oh, my, that kind of fucks with everything.
It's like hyperspace skipping.
You're like, oh, my, that fucks with everything, too.
And you're like, you know what else?
Emperor's alive.
You're like, oh, you need to stop.
You need to pull it right back.
Um. And he said all three of them, prequels,
like I actually think Revenge of the Sith isn't isn't all that bad.
This is a watchable movie for sure.
But unfortunately, I guess he's thinking more about Phantom Menace,
which can be boring.
It's still better than Last Jedi.
It's the most intellectually vapid Star Wars movie,
because when you look at the intentions and the themes of the prequels,
and they're actually really good.
And when you ask, why did more Star Wars have to be made at this point in time?
The answer again is a good one.
The answer is that George Lucas hated war
and he wanted to make a Star Wars film trilogy about how war is bad and how it's.
Oh, oh, is that what it is?
That's what war is, guys.
War is the way we realize Germany.
This is also this is what he said, true.
Well, the idea that George Lucas is trying to talk about war being bad,
I think it's a little bit more complicated than war is bad.
Like you will engage in a war if it means saving your civilization, surely.
No, you just want to realize your aggressors and you got to appreciate the logic.
It's like George Lucas said war is bad and then war is bad
because it's a tool of imperialism.
It's like, where did you get that?
Like, how did you derive that shit?
Like the George Lucas eight in an interview or something?
Maybe that's his commentary.
I didn't actually hear that, but let me explain it to you.
Yeah, I think the answer is that George Lucas hated war
and he wanted to make a Star Wars film trilogy about how war is bad.
It looks like how it's a tool of imperialism.
Yeah. OK, yeah.
So I've not seen any interviews or talks about that,
but I could maybe I've missed them.
But isn't the OT like peace is good or bad?
Well, yeah, yeah, OK, I don't think any of the films
are saying that like, hey, well, if anything, the Clone Wars made
a lot of people go, yeah, this is fucking awesome.
War is epic.
Clones and space battles.
Give me some of that war.
I want to go to war now.
Then they made like series about the Clone Wars and they made series about rebels.
Well, this is a tool of imperialism and bad.
OK, where else? Where are we going with this?
You know, the sequel films have always suffered from this big problem
where they don't have that same element.
They were created by Disney out of a corporate need for a franchise.
They were invented by filmmakers out of nostalgia
and they created I don't know if they were created.
I think they're just made for fucking money.
He's why they bought it.
That's kind of like money, right?
Yeah, nostalgia is just the way to get the money.
Yeah, yeah.
It's not they're they're driving.
Yeah, they didn't give a fuck.
Disney doesn't give a shit.
I seriously doubt that when JJ was making episodes
died, particularly, it was like, man, I can't wait to go back to Star Wars.
My favorite thing of all time and celebrate with all the fans like,
let's just get this done.
Didn't you have that interview?
He was just like, oh, fuck it.
I love that attitude.
It explains the whole movie.
That guy's that reinvigorated the love of Star Wars
and almost every generation.
But when they got to the end of the day
and they had to answer why they had done all of this,
they couldn't come up with a good answer outside of Star Wars is good.
And you should feel good liking it.
Oh, they want money.
Oh, fucking potato.
I mean, OK, I just at this point, I want to point out that
the new Star Wars shit doesn't want to say anything
because it's not really planned.
I guess there's no like he's saying that the new films are saying
that Star Wars as a franchise is a good thing and you should consume.
Is that his point?
I think so. Yeah, because I don't even agree with that.
The Last Jedi was like, fuck Star Wars.
OK, all right.
I mean, we had taste, but OK.
Do you think that Disney spent four billion dollars on Star Wars
to make people feel good?
I mean, it's clear that Quentin doesn't have a concept of money.
I mean, he bought a fucking thousand dollar sex doll for nothing.
Did he buy it or did he get it for free?
That's like because I remember reading tweets about like was the off of it.
Also, it was a discount.
I can't remember.
It was like a Kickstarter.
No, he was he was he was raising money for it.
Oh, my. Yeah, his fans paid for a thousand dollar sex.
That's how you know you've made it.
Excuse me, a thousand two hundred.
Oh, so thank you, Chase, for your encyclopedic knowledge.
There's varying levels of quality.
OK. And by the way, it's worth it. OK.
I believe you suck.
It was nine thousand.
Don't knock it till you try it.
I want to start off this in depth discussion
by analyzing the final scene in this film, which thanks to the nature of the sequels.
Is now the final scene in the entire chronological Star Wars saga.
Obviously, at this point, we're going to get into spoilers.
Let's do it. You somehow miss the kazoo bit at the beginning.
This is a good time to turn the video off all of Star Wars.
Oh, you mean that 20 second fucking bullshit
that you wasn't what it's through?
I guess. Yeah, no one.
No one missed that.
Why would nobody miss that?
Like, I don't know.
It just strikes me as all the people would want to watch a 30 minute analysis
that was of Riza Skywalker without realizing there's going to be spoilers.
I guess. Can you make a 30 minute discussion spoiler free?
I'll be difficult.
I'll bet if app can do it because they don't know when to stop talking.
We don't know how to edit or write or talk with the worthless fuckers killed.
Kill the guy down in front of their webcam for 10.
Are you just turning more Jewish gradually?
Wow, that that is a racism.
That was clearly like a Long Island accent.
Fuck you. No.
They're bad, they're long.
You're you're a bad man.
D Ray arrive on a planet which we immediately recognize to be Tatooine.
And then she goes to a place which we as an audience know is the Skywalker family farm.
And as an audience, we go, oh, my God, this is the place from episode four.
We're here again. Why are we here again?
And the movie goes, isn't it crazy that we're here again?
Isn't that so cool?
And we go, yeah, it is.
But why did you bring us here?
What's your fucking point?
Oh, my God, he's upset.
You're a toxic, fat, mad baby.
Yeah, you're just yeah.
It's a movie about space wizards meant for children.
Why are you criticizing it in any way?
I think there was a deleted scene where Ray was just hanging out with the two lightsabers.
She was like, where should I put these?
And Luke was like, I put them in my house, I guess.
Where is it?
He's like, oh, Tatooine, these are the specific coordinates.
And here's a photo of my house.
And then she went there and she buried them.
And he was like, thanks, bro.
Thanks. I really appreciate you doing that for me.
I don't really know why I wanted that, but I did. OK.
I don't even know who I am anymore.
Honestly, you just have no fucking clue looks around.
He's like, the fuck?
Let's go. How did I get here?
He's yeah, he's very upset.
Quinton, I think you need to calm down, though.
You're being very toxic.
That's just my opinion, I guess.
But, you know, yeah, he's talking about a scene.
With a female protagonist, he's getting this angry.
I mean, I'm just putting two together.
I'm not saying anything.
Two and two makes four.
Just saying.
And the movie goes, isn't it just cool that we can't be here,
that we can come back here and we go, yeah, we'll be here.
We did here before.
Why'd you fucking take us here again?
Um, that joke was really worth it.
I was like, well, this is so embarrassing.
To be fair, instead of just continuing on,
we're on a black screen now, so I'm wondering what will happen
when we return to you.
What are we even?
Is this like a new form of Quinton?
Like, rather, Quinton evolved as a critic.
I think so. He got so mad.
I thought he didn't care about this film.
Oh, wait, he said that he didn't care.
He said he might be laughing at a part of him that still does care.
He's tapping into that.
There you go.
Oh, my God.
He's maybe I care a little bit more than I was there.
You go. And you know what?
If that's what you want at the Star Wars movie,
just for the main character to go back to a set that you recognize
from a previous movie and to not really find a point in being there
outside of the presumption that you, the audience,
recognize the set and find some attachment to it.
Then you're going to love this movie.
Can we pause and say that I don't think that,
like, how could I put this?
I think the nostalgia was incidental.
Does that make sense?
Like, I get why Ray was there.
Like, does that make sense?
Like, I realized that he was right there.
To bury him to like, yeah.
But like, but why why why go there?
Honestly, I'm stuck all the way back at two.
Those things are very rare at this point.
Don't bury those.
Like, keep them there.
Really, really lethal weapons.
I don't know. It's more like how did you know that Tatooine?
I like probably because Luke Skywalker, she was in Tatooine.
I don't know. Like it is weird from Luke must have told
you to bury the lightsaber as a favor to him.
I like like, yeah.
Go back to the place where I was broken miserable.
It was even better.
Is he buries both the lightsabers that layer is like,
can you get older? Oh, fuck. Well,
we're all into the sky. Fuck it.
You know, this like hud down a piece of Alderaan is floating through this piece.
Even though we saw, yeah, because even though we saw Alderaan
basically get vaporized, we saw the same thing happen to the Death Star.
And that's true.
True. She's she's served that piece of the dish down to that planet.
Everyone knows it.
He surfed it like a boss.
That's really the limits test.
That that is in the Star Wars movie for you.
You can turn the video off now.
All right. He's talking about Eric Butz.
That's the guy who would have loved seeing.
I could honestly, and I'm not even like taking a shot here.
I think that when it showed the Tatooine, Eric Butz and the cinema wouldn't go.
I remember this location.
We'd be like, it's OK, dude.
Calm down. You're right.
Like, all right.
Wait, but they're like, did he like Rise of Skywalker?
This is, you know, I'm sure it's not possible for him to not love stuff.
Yeah, he loves like everything.
Star Wars. OK, so let me see.
Does he have a review?
Let me take a look like.
So Star Wars, the Rise of Skywalker spoilers geek out review.
Daisy Ridley movie 2019.
Daisy Ridley movie.
We're curious how her career will go post Star Wars.
I wonder if she'll end up.
Nowhere. He's crying.
And the thumbnail of his no spoilers geek out review.
He's crying. Oh, well.
Quentin's talking directly to Eric Butz. I knew it.
OK, they have a point in going back here.
It's a little deceptive to say that they don't have a point,
but it's such a vacuous point that it would almost be better to just pretend
that they didn't have a point.
An old woman walks up to Ray and asks for her name.
And she struggles with this as she has throughout the movie
because she doesn't want to call herself Ray Palpatine.
So thanks to the black and white woman
that she has no connection or relevance to as a character.
And she decides she's going to choose it as her new home.
And she says, my name is Ray Skywalker.
Is she going to live there?
I don't think she said anything about settling down.
Yeah, she just I the best thing that I could say
in terms of like an interpretation is that she just thought
it would be sentimental to bury the lightsabers there.
Yeah, yeah, probably.
I mean, I'm honestly so I guess Ray is capable of feelings.
Maybe Luke wanted to have his lightsaber in his house.
Like she said, she's going to keep it.
And he was like, fuck no.
You can have my name, but not my lightsaber, which at that point,
you're just like, OK, weird Luke.
But he's not, you know, really been acting normal for a while.
As for like she just walks off into the sunset.
I think the implication is she'll be like, this is a dirt hole.
I'm going to leave. Go to a better place.
It was a dirt hole.
I like I preferred my old dirt hole.
It was like a dirt hole, but above ground.
I think, well, she's probably going to she'll downright steal from people.
I think she, you know, she's a scavenger.
Yeah, that was a weird part of the film.
Do you remember when they were like, oh, you were a spice runner,
like an illegal thing?
And then Poe was like, you were a stormtrooper.
And then she goes, you were a spy.
And he goes, you were a scavenger.
And it's like, hang on.
I wasn't the same like.
Yeah, like you scavenged parts for a living.
And he's like, all right.
I ran drugs.
He like, that's a little different.
It's just all right, scavenger.
All right. Get off my case, scavenger.
And then the credits roll.
Oh, wait. So I do agree with what he said.
Like Ray has like a little connection with Skywalker with the Skywalker name.
I do think that the movie has failed to convince me that she has earned the name.
I still think it'd be cool if her to take the name Palpatine
to start doing good things in his name.
Yeah, I think that's a good that's a good point.
Yeah. She's like, you know what?
This is my family.
And I'm going to take and I'm going to work to make people, you know, turn that around.
Yeah, like I guess this is a little bit situation.
She's like, I'm Ray Palpatine, like a ball.
And they're like, oh, she's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no, that's our word.
Pee would.
Wait, this is Ray saying at the end of her journey, Luke was good.
I consider myself to be like Luke, and thus I am good by proxy.
I have two hot takes to say about this.
One is pretty normal and one is going to piss off.
What's a chud? So what is a chud?
Let me go. I know what it is.
I know what it is. It's a cannibalistic humanoid underground dweller.
I think that's what it stands for.
All right. A chud is an insult frequently used by leftists
to deride the members of the alt right or other right wing groups.
OK. Oh, all right.
So the second take he's got is going to be specifically against the alt right.
All right. You make sure you own the alt right in your Star Wars.
Those chuds, those chuds.
Get them. I guess he thinks that we're chuds.
Wait. Yeah, probably.
Even though a third of our lineup today is shades of not white.
That's racist.
He's saying he's upset about that.
And he is just like a black hole with eyes.
They call that chases and we've.
Well, he's still a dirty white man.
I know.
I believe it is like fucking.
Excuse me.
Is this how you justify your existence to us?
You're not even also doing knock chud life.
Have you even tried eating human?
I don't think so.
Chud life. Yeah.
My justification, my justification is that I played mystical ninja
starring Goemon on the N64 when I was like seven years old
and it just changed my entire world view.
I don't know about five or six of those words.
You say that we can you like translate that into like normal piss and stuff?
Yeah.
Japan, samurai, the sushi.
I get Japan, samurai, sushi, sushi, happy.
I follow. It was all downhill from there.
You find a new little dumpling monsters and it damaged me.
Let's move on.
I don't want to talk about it.
I can't wait for his chud hot take anti chud.
We'll start with that one.
And it's just got to be between me and you.
So come here, come here for a second.
Not too close, please.
Having a female lead to find her importance exclusively through a male lead
beach wasn't written well from jump, motherfucker.
All right, so it's telling you why herself.
And I'm sorry.
This like Skywalker isn't just Luke like Leia.
Yeah, I was going to say that's weird.
I thought I thought that's what I was trying to do with having both.
Yeah, both of them.
It's not like they did the Luke.
No, they did.
You see the cut scene where Luke pushed Leia aside like it's me.
It's a bitch. I'll tell you who you are.
Yeah. So like I'm just just in case anyone missed the right.
So he's saying it's it's bad writing for a female protagonist
to identify through all the achievements of a male name.
Is that kind of where he was going with that?
Maybe like, but that's just bad.
Always. That's not.
Why is he talking to the alt right about that?
I was going to say, I guess.
No, why is he talking about the alt right?
Honestly, no, I'm trying to.
So the alt right.
No, no, Rags.
He has to do first hot take the normal one.
I guess.
Isn't this the guy that just decided to like decry his disdain for Trump?
Yeah. Yeah, that.
Oh, yeah. This is the guy.
This is the guy.
I don't like Trump.
Just a fucking hate Trump.
I'm still on your side, guys.
I just I guess if let's just pretend for a second
that he's talking to someone who hates women, right?
Because that's what he thinks he's talking to.
So if someone if you hate a woman and you find out that she takes the name
of Luke Skywalker at the end of the film, wouldn't that annoy those people?
I don't know.
It's a fucking horseshoe theory at this point.
Yeah, I'm just confused.
Remember what I can't remember based on my politics,
what opinion I'm supposed to have on the Star Wars movie.
I need a horseshoe theory.
A horseshoe theory is like when something is so left, it like loops back around.
It becomes right.
Like, oh, the whole like free the nipple movement.
It eventually worked its way back around to like,
I don't want to see any naked women.
You're objectifying and keep those sluts clothed.
It's effectively how it comes off now.
Um, I'm going to play it again because I've lost myself.
Yeah, let's review.
Oh, we have to get close again.
Having a female lead to find her importance exclusively through a male
lead is bad writing.
Define her importance.
That's interesting.
I don't know if that was happening with her.
Exclusively find her importance.
She's I mean, you know, I'll hand it to her.
She's insanely good by herself.
I was going to say I'll hand it to her.
She saved the universe.
She did that.
I mean, it may not have made sense, but she did it.
Right.
She's amazing.
Yeah, she's a lot.
A lot of importance has been put on this character,
even though she's on possibly jack shit.
The most fucking earnest ever that yeah, like I'm sorry.
Quinton Skywalker isn't just good old Luke.
It's actually a complicated name because you got Luke,
Leia and Anakin attached to that one.
Um, and shimmy Skywalker.
She was a legend.
Let's not forget me.
No, by the way, wasn't me the name of the, um,
wasn't it the name of the first mate in Peter Pan?
Oh, hooks first mate.
Yeah, it was me SMEE rather than S HMI.
I think it's me.
I don't know.
Maybe chat was a question.
I'm sure.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
I guess we need to talk to some Chuds.
We'll get some Chuds on and they can tell us, uh, how angry.
It's remarkable.
Republican Chuddy.
Is he like that?
Imagine he's like unironically like I have a chud.
Yes.
I'm a chud.
Yes.
I think chud is.
I feel like Chuds have been misaligned, maligned, maligned, not misaligned.
Ignore that maligned unfairly.
Again, just, just to refocus.
I just defined her importance by attaching her surname to a family that already exists
that have done some of the worst war crimes while also saving the world while also being
a respected general of a resistance.
Like you've got a lot of stuff that comes with a Skywalker name.
Just saying.
Can we, can we like get some fan art of what Chud Skywalker would look like?
I want that more than I've ever wanted anything in my life.
I'm just picturing like a lumbering creature.
It's like caveman Ray.
Like an amorphous blob.
The only trained white males is Jedi.
Chud Skywalker.
Okay.
The second thing I have to say is that in a meta way, this moment is also the sequels defining
their own worth by saying the original trilogy was good.
I consider myself to be like the original trilogy and thus I am good by proxy.
This is your mind on themes, by the way.
Yes.
You start drawing out these crazy things.
Like this is the film saying that the OT is good and I am like it.
You're like, I don't.
It's like massive projection at this point, honestly.
Yes.
So Ray took the name because she had a lot of respect for Luke and Leia.
It made enough sense.
I just don't know.
But like, yeah, that's that is met narrative wise.
That is the sequel trilogy saying it is it is good.
Like the OT who is like, oh, yeah, well, you know, interpretations guys.
Okay.
I want to talk about the biggest problems that I have with Star Wars as a franchise,
which I sort of expected the sequel trilogy to fix.
The first thing is big.
There is one trilogy that people really like, the original trilogy, and all other
Star Wars media exists to mirror and reflect that piece of content.
The franchise is totally redundant to mirror and reflect.
Yes, it's really important that I get that across because
I'm in YouTube on a sewer and I can't stand two words being synonymous,
being used as separate points.
Okay.
Mirror and reflect.
It mirrors it and it reflects it.
No, maybe it like reflects it in the.
I don't know, like a mirror is like the clearest of reflections.
It's like a no use sort of thing.
He's right, though, that most Star Wars media tries to sort of be like,
hey, the OT was cool.
But then again, you know, a lot of prequel media came out after the prequels did,
even though people were 50 50 on it, like trying to be like the prequels.
Complicated to say the least.
But go on, Quentin.
exists to mirror and reflect that piece of content.
The franchise is total.
I could have cropped that image.
Come on.
He's put an image on the screen.
Could you at least appreciate that?
That's a lot of work to find an image you want and drag it onto your timeline.
These three movies are good.
Let's tie into them.
And that kind of ends up feeling limiting after a while.
The second issue is that as the franchise has expanded and more elements have been added onto
certain moments from the original trilogy have been altered or ruined.
For instance, in the original trilogy, Darth Vader is a terrifying evil force,
but we never understand the scope of how true this is.
We see him be imposing.
He throws some people around.
He kills some Nazi generals.
He fights Luke.
He kills Obi-Wan, kills, transitioning him into immortality.
But it's still drawn back enough that when he defeats the Emperor to save his son,
when he uses his final dying breaths to say that he loves the children he never knew,
we see him as redeemed.
But when the franchise circles back around and we truly see the scope of the crimes of Vader,
that redemption starts to feel like bullshit.
Uh, I have not heard that take before.
Uh, yeah, I, I've not heard that either.
If anything, it kind of makes the redemption more meaningful
because it shows how much he went back on.
Yeah, he was, he was essentially completely lost as a
Vader in terms of his, I don't know, moral compass.
But the thing is, you have to remember there's a lot of contextualization.
Like he saw the rebels as like, essentially terrorists that were fucking with the Empire
when the Empire is this peace.
What does he say in the prequels?
Peace, prosperity, and justice.
Like he sees, that's what he sees the Empire as.
Um, like just trying to dismantle or destroy the Death Star is something that he absolutely
considers to be, you know, that's a bad.
And so he will, he will happily slap people down with a, with a hot knife.
If he has to.
A 1000 degree knife.
Yes.
Where did they go, huh?
That was because that was a good time on YouTube.
That was because people realize most of the time it's like, oh,
I went through a thing for about half a second and then it cooled off.
We got to reheat it again.
And the same thing happened.
And there's the thing.
I don't think like he's a good guy.
Like, I don't, I don't think it, it, it becomes a sort of like, say, for example,
I think I talked to Rags before, but if, um, if he didn't die at the end of
return the Jedi, he got on a ship with Luke and then he went to Endor
and everyone was dancing because they defeated the Emperor and all that stuff.
And he's like, oh, hey guys, uh, I'm, I'm going to stay in the ship.
Like this awkward, not gonna, you guys have fun.
Cause it's just gonna be like, how the fuck would anyone want to deal with
him outside of Luke, uh, after everything he's done?
And that's the thing.
I think you're supposed to not consider him altruistic at that point.
You're just supposed to be like, Oh, he's actually made it a really important
decision. Um, sort of had a huge moment for his character, but he's not.
Then undone like totally he's not off the hook.
Those young legs are still dead.
Vader is the main perpetrator of one of the worst genocides to ever happen in the galaxy.
He murders children with his own hands.
He is implicit in several other genocides, also perpetrated by the empire,
including the Lissat and everyone killed on Alderaan and all the fucking species.
He wipes out all the toddlers.
He slices into with his laser sword.
We're supposed to believe they get to the afterlife and space.
Jesus is all like, don't worry guys.
In a couple of decades, he's going to throw an old guy over a railing and then
he's going to say that he loves the point here.
Quentin, I think you're really, really missing the point.
There's like a mechanical aspect to it.
It's not like that's, that's how he felt.
He was a Jedi.
So he's not a Sith like this.
No, like there's not like a space judge that goes, you are a Sith.
He, you know, maybe he could, if you can turn from a Jedi to a Sith or a Sith to a Jedi,
oh, you know, I imagine you can actually do it a couple of times throughout your life.
You can probably be like, you know what, I feel pissed today.
Nope, can't do it.
Can't go back.
No backsies.
So yeah, I don't, I don't think it works exactly like that.
Like the idea that he gets to be a force ghost or something is,
is something that a space Jesus gave him.
Also that it's like, no, it's not really how that works.
We, we know now that it's like a knowledge you have to have.
It's like I said, it's mechanical.
Um, but I could totally see Obi-Wan being like, oh, hey buddy.
And he's like, hey, yeah, I know.
I know.
Space Jesus is all like, don't worry guys, in a couple of decades,
he's going to throw an old guy over a railing and then he's going to say that he loves his
daughter and then he's going to come hang out here with all you guys.
It's a massive inconsistency that we.
Well, hang on.
The OT alone was enough to know that he was a horrible monster in terms of the things he
had done.
The idea that he killed all the younglings and stuff.
It's like, I mean, did you not think that when he was okay with like raising planets,
that children died?
Yeah, he blew up Alderaan.
He was fine with blowing up Alderaan.
Like everything else is just, he blew up a planet, man.
Yeah.
Like what?
You're not going to say, oh yeah.
And he killed some kids in a room once.
He's like, he's already blown up a planet.
I think we've exceeded.
We've established it.
Yeah.
Quinn is like, can you confirm there's a nursery on that planet?
You're like, there's like one, two, three.
He destroyed a planet of billions and six children.
Oh shit.
Now that you added those six children in at the end, what an asshole.
It changes everything.
We allow ourselves to buy into because we understand that the movies were not
written in order and probably should not be viewed that way.
But they made him a monster.
They always intended that he was a monster.
Yeah.
What did they contradict here?
What's the problem?
He's, he redeemed himself in that sense.
That doesn't mean that he's off the hook.
Yeah.
This is like, that's the thing, man.
If he was to come back into real happy life and he colors his suit white to look as horrifying
and you put draws a smile on it, it's like, you just be like, dude, you kind of still,
I don't know.
What are you, what are we thinking jail?
I don't know.
You need, you kind of, you did a lot of things.
I'm going to say that.
Okay.
And he's like, I'm sorry.
To be fair, chat makes a decent point.
Those younglings were orphans just click true.
So really that should take, instead of adding six, that should take six away from
the Alderaan count, which is still quite a few.
I'm guessing, but, and you know, they didn't even fight back.
Like it's kind of, they fall in a little way, isn't it?
Like they could have done something, you know, then they just let it happen.
Stupid kids.
I personally, I would have been like, nah, not having that.
I would have, would have thrown my lightsaber, tried something.
I think we should blame the kids is where I'm going with this.
Okay.
They, do you see how rude one of them were?
It's like, what are we supposed to do?
It's like, how is, how is Anakin supposed to tell the kids what to do all the time?
Like I'd be pissed.
I think it's fair.
He's a good guy.
The prequels recontextualized Vader to be a hero, I think of, of the orphan killing brand.
My point is simply that had Vader's wider story arc actually been
written in chronological order, it would have been bad writing.
Episode one, Vader personally murders children.
Episode two, Vader helps orchestrate several genocides.
Episode three, uh, Vader kills his boss and then says he.
But that's, that's the most simplified vision ever.
Yeah.
That's, that's, it's not just an old guy.
There are some old guy.
That's all he is.
Like Luke has to kind of work pretty hard to get him to come over to not being an asshole.
So that also doesn't.
And, and plus like Vader, Vader was super like, this was him completely going against
basically everything that he had.
He had complete and total investment in the empire and, and, you know, Palpatine.
Uh, it wasn't just him killing a guy.
It was him turning his back on all that.
And his, he probably knew that he was going to get effed up anyway.
So it's just such a weird, he's like, oh, I just threw an old guy down his mine shaft.
He's like, no, no, a little more than that, a little more than that.
Loves his daughter.
And now he's in good guy immortality forever.
See, I think that's a bit of a misconception.
Good guy immortality.
It's like, no, it's, it's mechanical.
You could learn how to do this, even if as far as I'm aware, you can do it as a Sith too.
Uh, like, if you had like a Jedi pal who was really annoying and he learned how to do it
and you see him in the afterlife, you're like, oh, well, hey buddy.
And in rice of Skywalker, it's powering Palpatine.
Isn't that kind of like, like, isn't like in rice of Skywalker, the Sith are like powering Palpatine.
Uh, like all of the Sith are in Palpatine and all of the Jedi are in Ray.
And that's a thing.
Yeah.
So that, that sort of implies that they could have some spirit shit.
Imagine all the Sith like being in Palpatine, giving him all their power
and he electrocutes himself and like, what are you doing?
Stop what?
No, stop, stop.
Why are you doing this?
But the other thing that the prequels do is rewrite the Jedi to not be fun.
And I mean in ways other than the video essay I released a few days ago discussed.
In the original trilogy, Luke has the Force because he's an audience surrogate
and the filmmaker wants you to believe that you can use the Force yourself.
No, um, um, it's a hero's journey.
Isn't that why he's, uh, what?
Because Luke is an audience surrogate.
I mean, he's, he's an insert for like the, the, the guy who's unaware of so much stuff
that he can ask questions that we will appreciate the answers to.
And he's a partial blank slate, but, um, if that's what he's kind of getting at, I guess.
We need to listen to it again.
Disgust.
In the original trilogy, Luke has the Force because he's an audience surrogate.
I don't know why would that be why he has the force.
I thought everyone could have the force now.
Or I thought that the force was at the time, it was not really defined as to who had it.
Anyone could have it.
I'm very confused.
Yeah.
This is an odd point.
Also, could you talk about the rise of Skywalker?
He's getting there.
God.
The filmmaker wants you to believe that you can use the force yourself.
It's this vague magic that exists all around us that anyone can be trained to understand and use.
It's an energy force.
Anakin can use the force because his blood is better than yours.
The force is gifted exclusively to those with superior genes.
I don't think that that's what it is.
I think it's just that it doesn't like everybody has a midichlorian count.
It's just some of more, some of less.
Yeah, I thought so.
Like there isn't an entity on because the force is everything, or at least it flows around
everything.
And so, theoretically, anybody can use it.
It's just that if you have more of a concentration of midichlorians, then you can use it more
better.
Yeah, I don't think we mentioned it twice.
Once Qui-Gon on Tatooine and then once in the Jedi Chamber.
Well.
It's been so long since I've seen them.
I think so.
Because then they're just like never brought up again after that.
Well, chat's lighten up.
What do we got?
Triggered by Qui-Gon, I guess.
Superior genes.
The force is closer to IQ.
Also, yeah, I don't know if you can call it superior genes when he was like created
by the force, as in like Palp's or Palp's Dash or whatever.
I don't know if the force would be like, I'm going to give your baby
fucking diabetes and it'll be crippled and it'll have osteoporosis.
You have to have over 7000 midichlorians to be a Jedi, apparently.
7000?
I guess that's in some kind of extended thing.
I don't know.
Maybe there's like a direct correlation between like midichlorians and chromosomes.
But as Aiden says, midichlorians, I like to think, are a thing that are just drawn towards the force.
So an indicator rather than the cause of it.
Okay, all right.
Which is certainly a better way than...
Oh, you have more midichlorians there for you.
If that's true, that doesn't help the prequels a lot in terms of the quote,
unquote damage because you could have multiple explanations.
It doesn't make you a Jedi, it just shows people that you're a Jedi.
Though you'd still have the issue of like, wow, there's a lot that's surrounding that
chancellor.
How are you doing there, buddy?
And he's like, yeah, I'm fine.
And you're like,
Definitely strange.
Suspicious eye, the hairy eyeball, if you will.
But okay, we'll see where he goes with this question mark.
You can use the force you have to be related to another famous person who can also use the force.
This whole bloodline thing was introduced exclusively for the reveal that Darth Vader
was Luke's father, but it's indirectly led to the mysticism of the force being absolutely
destroyed.
Oh, but not the last Jedi.
Well, you did say earlier that like, it is damaging it, right?
Like he said the sequels damage it too.
I guess he's saying the prequels damage it too.
Maybe it is partially to do with bloodlines as well.
Just just in terms of like,
overall power.
You've confused me with that midichlorian thing
just being an indicator.
It's like, interesting to think about in terms of they're drawn to an entity that has
better use of the force, I guess, or more powerful use.
But I don't think we ever gotta, is there any extended universe stuff that kind of clarifies
the midichlorian explanation?
Or do they just forget that even happened?
Because I'm unaware of it.
There's probably something on Wikipedia has got to be.
Let me let me look at midichlorians.
Well, Rags does that.
ER, if you're still there, can you say something so the chat knows that you're not dead?
I think a fucking tism right now.
Okay.
Midichlorians were intelligent microscopic life forms that lived symbiotically inside
the cells of all living things.
When present in sufficient numbers, they could allow their host to detect the pervasive
energy field known as the force.
So it's not a genetics.
So it looks like according to Wookie Pedia.
Yeah, it's like.
Paris, the force spoke through the midichlorians,
allowing certain beings to use the force if they were sensitive enough to its powers.
It says in order to gauge the individual's potential within the force,
blood tests were used to estimate the number of midichlorians within the subject cells.
So I guess it's like you're it's a built in cap for how good your force is, which is shit.
The thing is, like going just from the prequel movies,
it's really not that much information on exactly what the hell is even going on with that.
Um, but as far as I'm aware, in Star Wars, there is definitely like,
if you're a part of, say, the Skywalker bloodline, you're probably going to be more
force sensitive.
I mean, is there a genetic component to how many midichlorians you have body?
Perhaps.
Or well, that's the thing.
I'm getting all crossed lines in my head right now in terms of like,
where does it all begin?
Who does the what and the where and the why?
But yeah, as far as I knew, everybody can use it.
Some people just really shit with it.
Like, they suck.
Some people really fucking good with it.
And then midichlorians come into that with all living, like, yeah,
all living things have midichlorians, probably just to lesser and greater degrees, right?
That's that's the the canon as far as I'm aware.
There's going to be people who know this pretty well in chat, probably.
I guess I didn't think that this Rise of Skywalker review would be so focused on midichlorians.
Yeah, I know.
It feels like we've jumped into the equals.
But I guess he's trying to say this is an example of how the OT gets ruined by additional content.
Someone said someone said the ER is force ghost.
Force goes talk, though.
And they could I mean, they could really just do anything a normal person could do.
Yeah.
In fact, as more established and teleport being a force ghost is actually a lot better
than being alive. So let me ask something that really cares about your is personified
objectively good or kind of overrated.
I need to hear this from you.
Objectively good.
There you go.
Somebody sent me something insane.
I need you to take a look at it.
Oh, did I see that?
Oh, yeah, I saw that.
I've got that ready for.
Holy shit.
The chat just you wait.
We got it.
Can we show that on the street?
Oh, it's a man.
Yeah, I know.
That's true.
Yeah, it's a man's.
Can I just say the shading on Quentin's face in that image?
It's as terrible as it is in real life.
Amazing.
The way that Luke is sitting or lying again.
And he doesn't like uncomfortable like he's happy.
He's really making a bit of it.
Hmm.
Anyway, well back to talking about midichlorians in the prequels.
Yeah, not fun, not approachable.
And on an intellectual level, a little overtly.
Fashy on an intellectual.
Fashy.
It's a machine on an intellectual level.
Goddamn.
Wait, what is fashion?
Like fascistic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think kind of what was fascist about for the
midichlorians are like, it's like a superior race.
But well, okay.
But like, which I mean, technically they are a superior.
I was going to say, like, what if normal people are plus the force?
Like if we have people who, but that happens now, like bodies that are just better equipped for
doing more or different things, you can't necessarily conclude that because someone
can use the force better, they are a better person or I mean, they're better equipped to
use the force by definition.
But is that, is that fascist?
The fact that someone might be like, hey, I would actually prefer to have the ability
to control things with my mind better.
It's like, so we should single out.
I mean, he was interested in just getting stronger and stronger and stronger.
Uh, it's, it's fashy.
It's fashy.
Let's give it another go just to hear that reveal that Darth Vader was Luke's father,
but it's indirectly led to the mysticism of the force being absolutely destroyed.
It makes the force not fun, not approachable.
And on an intellectual level, a little overtly
fashy, how does something be a little overtly, a little overtly, a little majorly.
It's, it's, it's somewhat obvious, you know, stick.
What is my whole stick?
Oh yeah, you're, you're a little bit, yeah, yeah, a little bit.
How do you even spell fashy like F A S H Y probably if we're going like F A C S H
Yeah.
All right.
That's that's the big question.
Also somebody, someone bloody simile brings up a good point in chat.
He says, wait, how does a force ghost use the force if they have no body or blood to have
midichlorians?
They're, they're goople steins that surround them.
They, they have the midichlorians.
What are goople steins?
I'm new.
I don't have to tell you about every pot of stalls.
Chase seriously.
Oh my God.
Can I just, can I rant for a second?
I, I fucking came from like a community of people that would like to review video games
and people like Quinton are kind of in Quinton.
If you're listening, you seem like a narcissist.
You probably listen to this stuff.
I'm sure you're a nice guy.
I'm sure if we had a drink, we'd agree on a lot of things and have some similar philosophies.
He wouldn't talk with you.
No, he wouldn't.
He probably already has me blocked just from being on here.
But there's so many people in like the game review community that have like this weird
sort of vocal fry and just like cut away really quickly to compensate for lack of proper comedic
timing.
And it's his and the full beard and like the goofy, like funny slogan t-shirt.
It's just, he's just like a walking caricature of like internet reviews.
I wasn't sure if we discussed that already.
Maybe I wasn't here for it, but it bothers me.
LGBTQ plus frogs fucking on his dresser there.
And I think they are like actually humping.
Greg's you were talking about that.
Yeah, he's he's an ally.
Let him do the fucking, you know, let him be.
Does he have pronouns in his bio on Twitter?
I need to know that.
I'm almost certain.
I would be able to check because I'm blocked.
Let me check if I'm not blocked.
Also, chat want me to ask to acknowledge Aiden Paladin.
Acknowledged.
He does.
He does have pronouns in his bio.
Just he slash they.
I don't think I've seen that combo before, but that's fine.
I'm not.
By the way, there's nothing wrong with pronouns in your bio.
It just speaks a lot to you.
He's a they, I guess.
Oh, God.
I don't have anything against transgender people.
I just think it's a cliche.
He is very cliche.
Also, if the forest is genetic, then you would think that the Jedi would encourage
strongly Jedi to have kids.
Interesting, yes.
As this is this is apparently from Discord, a common misconception held that
midichlorians were force carrying particles when in fact they more function as translators.
So the more of them you have, the more efficient you can understand the force.
Is that fair?
It's like the force is the ocean and your midichlorians are the amount of buckets you have.
All right.
Back me up on this.
We're all just like, sure.
No, you're on your own.
But does being from a particular bloodline increase the likelihood of midichlorians all
simply mean that you might end up being someone who is good at using the force?
I don't know.
You know, if you're a Skywalker, does that mean you get more midichlorians?
Well, there ain't none of them left.
Nope.
Well, what about Rey Skypatine?
Adopted doesn't count.
We know that.
Kind of makes a ring to it.
It's not even adopted.
Um, yeah.
All right.
Well, you know what?
Let's just, I'm hoping we get to rise a Skywalker at some point.
And on an intellectual level, a little overtly fashy.
The plot of episode one is the Jedi arrive on Tatooine.
They see all these slaves.
They see all this injustice.
They decide not to do anything about it ever.
But then they need a boy.
You like TLJ.
How can you say this criticism?
Yeah.
Yeah, guys.
It's way worse.
They have interest in freeing the animals.
They leave the humans.
While in the prequels, what you're dealing with is a system on the outer rim
as they establish that they can't and isn't it?
There's lots of talk about the even trying to free two slaves is extremely difficult.
And you've got a political system with the huts that will fuck you up.
If you try and like, you know, break this, you could start a war.
Sure. Send the Republic to go and invade Tatooine and free all the slaves.
The outer rim.
But the problem, I guess, with that is that like,
is the Republic going to go galaxy trotting and just kill everybody who doesn't not have slaves?
Yeah, it's one Jedi in his apprentice on a ship that's carrying the leader of a faraway planet
on route to like, this is not listen, this ain't the time and place.
It's out of their jurisdiction is the point.
And you might be like, shouldn't they have a moral responsibility?
It's like there's probably thousands of planets that they have a moral responsibility to potentially save.
I just don't know that it works like that.
It's just like the same as our planet, but on a galactic scale.
Because the slaves is in certain parts of our planet is still a thing, right?
Sadly, absolutely.
But why isn't why isn't Quentin saving those slaves rags?
Because that'd be imperialist.
Oh, my God.
Which is a bad living together for mutual advantage.
Without midichlorians, life could not exist.
And we would have no knowledge of the force.
They continually speak to us, telling us the will of the.
When you learn to quiet your mind, you'll hear them speaking to you.
I don't know what that means, really.
My forms living together without midichlorians life couldn't exist.
They tell us the will of the force.
It does get confusing exactly how old it works.
I don't think anybody's going to disagree with that.
Speaking of the prequels.
I wanted to ask, are you are you aware of Oney like Chris O'Neill at all?
Yes.
Have you ever seen Oney plays where they constantly just rag on George Lucas being obsessed with Jar Jar?
No, I don't think I see that, but.
They'll just be like he's in his sleep just turning over going Jar Jar.
Jar Jar kills Darth Vader.
I just I wanted to see Jar Jar the sequels.
I was he would have been I would that would have been my fanservice.
Having Jar Jar teared up in one of the ships being like.
He's not going to fuck you up.
He's super badass now.
I would unironically love that.
It would be so much fun to be like the whole side series.
It's like like they have that one Star Wars ride at Disney Land or Disney World.
And he was saying what would you do if George Lucas was just at the end of the ride like.
I need all of you to pose and say Jar Jar is the best Star Wars character.
Everyone look at the camera and say Jar Jar.
Jar Jar.
Yeah, exactly.
Like you can't get off the ride unless you say that Jar Jar is your favorite character.
Or else this ride will be your tomb.
Who they find out has superior genes and they decide they have to free him exclusively
and recruit him into their order of people with superior genes as well.
Which is so like Qui-Gon super interested in him because he thinks he's a part of a prophecy
that's going to bring balance to the force.
It's not just about Obi-Wan said his midi-chlorians were off the charts.
Yeah, this was an extremely special case and Qui-Gon does try and free more than one slave.
He's just unable to and he tries to do it through bartering rather than some.
He doesn't fight to free them because he can't.
Again, it'll start a war.
They're not allowed and fucking hell who knows what'll happen if you have the Republic going
outside of their borders.
This is the thing, the prequels did a lot of political shit that everyone apparently found
boring and now don't remember when criticizing it.
They had to go to the Outer Rim to escape the jurisdiction of the Trade Federation, right?
That's why they were like, we will go to the Outer Rim because nobody's going to find us there.
No, dude, just invade other planets and take people.
I'm just picturing like they tried to take her that her head explodes and they're like, fuck.
It's like, oh yeah, that's right.
This is a thing that they plan for.
We can't just take them.
Else maybe they would have left on their own.
If anyone in chat hears any errant giggling, Jay Longbone has made it a periodic event
for a bunch of pictures of Quentin out of context, like with the mirroring and making
these like these shit eating faces just randomly pop up in our group chat.
So if you hear any giggling, that's pretty much always what that is.
Definitely not a cult.
Do not call it a cult.
Slavery is okay on the planet of Tatooine, but we will save this boy who has the superior
head shape of the Jedi.
Oh my God, he's he's doing everything in his power to make the Jedi like Nazis.
I was just going to say, like, we've we've counted the algorithm like three times and
I was sort of just going to keep it going.
It's like, keep it up, Quentin.
Just keep saying it.
My final problem with Star Wars was introduced by the movie The Force Awakens,
which is a good film that still has this massive, massive franchise destroying element.
AJ Abrams believed that the main appeal of Star Wars was cool reveals like that Luke's
father is Darth Vader.
And so he wrote The Force Awakens, not only to be a good standalone movie,
but to also ask questions which would incentivize the audience to be invested in sequels,
answering said questions.
Who or Rey's parents?
Where did she get her superior force genetics from?
Genetics?
That's an interesting way to say that.
Genetics.
Where did Snoke come from?
How is he connected to other bad guys in the franchise?
Who are the Knights of Ren?
He took all these mysteries that he did not have answers to,
and he put them all in a box that he calls the mystery box.
And then he kind of went maybe in a sequel film,
someone will open the mystery box and you'll find out what's inside.
And Ryan didn't.
I was going to say, yeah, that's a fair take.
This is a take from 2017.
So not bad, Quentin.
Yeah, a lot of mystery boxes.
Ryan could have done stuff with that, and he didn't.
Well, see, that's the we have simultaneous narratives.
People say that he didn't answer those boxes,
but he also didn't have any help answering them.
So therefore, whose fault is it?
And I'm like, I still think it's more Ryan's fault.
Yeah, this is where you're a writer director.
This is what your job is.
Your job is to do these things.
Being like, who are the Knights of Ren?
It's like, you have so many options.
What was so hard about that?
That he was like, there's no time for them with the film.
He was like, oh, oh, OK.
All right.
Kill Harry and Chad said, where did you come from, Quentin?
That you got, I don't know, raise lineage.
Didn't correct me if I'm wrong.
The Force Awakens was kind of like, it doesn't matter.
And that you should just go hang out with Luke.
Maybe the maybe what he was inching towards
was that she was going to be Luke's kid.
I don't know.
We never know, especially with Rise of Skywalker.
I don't really know what the hell J.J.'s original plans were.
Maybe he always intended for her to be a Palpatine, but we'll never know.
But yeah, no fair enough take.
I suppose, Quentin.
I'm just curious how much he's going to teeter around The Last Jedi.
I'm pretty sure he liked that movie,
but there's a lot of blame to be placed around it.
Aiden said that does does Quentin not believe in chromosomes?
That can't be right.
Is that coming from the whole superior genetics thing?
Aiden said, what a shock.
Someone who doesn't believe chromosomes are real
is mad about the in any way hereditary.
Could you link me to that?
Because that's insane.
If he doesn't think that chromosomes are real.
Yeah, I'm trying to think of how that could be contextualized, like,
in a normal human way.
Is it that he?
No, I got nothing.
Yeah, well, I guess we'll see.
And again, the mystery box is not only a core defining aspect of why people like that movie,
but also why they wanted more Star Wars films after that.
But from my experience, the biggest question that most audience members walked away with
from The Force Awakens was sort of a slow burning one,
where they went, wow, that was incredible.
It was like episode four, but bigger.
Why was it like episode four, but bigger?
Why did it choose to be that?
Why did it accomplish?
Why are we not talking about Rise of Skywalker?
He's getting there.
You keep rushing him.
Okay, you keep rushing him.
And I'm getting tired.
I was enjoying this video and you're like, oh, talk about the title.
I was really hoping to get his take on the Rise of Skywalker.
He talked about the first scene and then we.
No, he talked about the final scene.
I think I think this is a classic argument approach known as gish galloping.
Oh, what do you mean?
Well, just like what he's doing.
Like he's just kind of covering as much fucking ground as possible before he actually.
Let's say I stood neutrally on Rise of Skywalker.
He hasn't convinced me of shit yet.
I think he's getting there, though.
The second half of the video will all be Rise of Skywalker calling it now.
Baby.
A few other Star Wars films have literally just chosen to be a different Star Wars film,
but with a larger scale.
What was the purpose of doing all that?
To get people to make money.
Is this entire sequel franchise just going to be the original trilogy, but on a bigger scale?
I think that's kind of what they're going for.
Yeah, because you don't shit on your built in audience
until The Last Jedi.
Good job, guys.
Oh, I just mean like it was very focused on money.
It was clearly super referential.
It was bringing back everybody's favorite characters and favorite locations and favorite
tools of the universe and just just stand down.
It's like, why would they do all of that?
It's like probably to make us go, oh, it's like, wait, you think they weren't focusing
on making like character driven stories?
You're like, what do you mean?
No, no.
And also, while it is bigger, it's also dumber for sure.
There you go.
I mean, oh, J.K.
Rowland said chromosomes exist and she's being cancelled right now for saying it.
She said that sex is real, essentially.
J.K.
Rowland said sex is real.
So yeah, I heard about that trans people.
Yup.
I guess.
Apparently.
Apparently what that means today.
Oh, I understand.
No, X, X, X, Y.
I understand.
So what you're saying is.
I thought we were talking about having an extra chromosome.
He didn't believe that, I guess.
Yeah, I don't know.
Gwen's probably got a few chromosomes there.
And full extra put on there.
A safe measure.
And what makes me love The Last Jedi is that all of these qualms and more are addressed within
the film, even if it's in a way that a lot of audience members did not appreciate.
One of Ryan Johnson's main points in the film is that the setup in The Force Awakens is kind
of silly because it gives out all these questions and all these mystery.
But none of these questions can really be answered in a way that will satisfy
the long hunger that the audience has had.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
No, absolute bullshit.
Writer.
Hello.
That's your job.
So it's your job.
Does anybody think there's any explanation for Snoke's
backstory that could have been satisfying to general audiences?
Well, actually, let's put it this way.
General fans.
So like, not the general audiences.
General people who are like, I love Star Wars.
The Force, midichlorians.
I know it all.
Woohoo.
Is there any answer you could give Snoke that would be generally satisfying to those people?
I'd be like, yeah, probably.
Just check out any of their videos.
Like all the fan videos.
Check out the most popular fan videos and you'll have your answer.
Snoke with Mace Windu.
Snoke with Mace Windu.
Snoke with Mace Windu.
Snoke with Mace Windu.
Keep in mind, Ryan.
Keep in mind, Ryan Johnson basically already wrote off the fandom anyway.
You can, even before he even started working on the movie, he already made up their mind,
oh, they're just a bunch of bloodthirsty nerds and their desires will never be quenched.
It's impossible to make something satisfying.
They're like, okay.
Especially when they're nerdy man babies.
They're all right goods.
Entitled fucking cucks.
Yeah, I think that they could have satisfied people.
And, you know, I do find that I'm using this like, you have to hit this target that's pretty tough
and you got like a rifle with a scope and it's like, can you do it?
And Ryan Johnson just fucking threw the gun away.
He was like, nah, it's not possible.
It's like, you couldn't try.
Try it?
No?
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah, he's giving him props for not doing his job, which is kind of.
Oh, yeah.
Darth Plagueis ever.
I remember that being the prevailing theory.
It was like, he's going to be Darth Plagueis.
And he looks like he does because he survived Palpatine's attempt at killing him.
That's what it was going to be, right?
That's like, I think that was like what everyone's money was on for what the most likely explanation
for him was going to be.
And I think that if they had done that, I'm not saying it would have made for a great story.
I'm going to say that I think most people would have been relatively satisfied for
that were Star Wars fanatics would have been interested beyond specific mechanics.
I think they would have been like, yep, that works.
So, yeah, I don't know.
And the idea that it's like, see, Ryan was trying to prove a point that these questions
just were never going to be answered in a satisfying way anyway.
So he just fucking gave up.
It's like, oh, good job.
There are no potential answers to any of these mystery box questions
that don't sound inherently stupid when you say that out loud.
How is nothing better?
I was nothing not stupid.
Yeah.
How have you determined that all of the potentials that could have ever been thought of
wouldn't have satisfied people generally?
Because that's bullshit.
Because the force awakens satisfied people generally.
Yeah, it did pretty well.
People were the happy faces.
So go watch some of those like stupid how it should have ended animations
that run through like all the different options they could do.
No, it didn't.
They choose some like, oh, my they also do it in a cartoony way.
Like, yeah, like they're like, lol, your Ben Kenobi's daughter.
She's like, whoa, I don't know what to say, Quentin.
If you're so stupid that you think that all of those cartoons discuss every possible potential
for how it could have explained.
I just I don't know what to say, man.
I don't know how dim you've got to be to believe that.
I think you well, I think is he actually taking a shot at he she there as well?
Like, because obviously they how it should have ended implying that he's like they're wrong.
Um, yeah, they I've seen their video.
It's just is I always saw it as a more of just like he has have some fun.
Hey, it turns out because they make it like they do the soap opera dramatic reveal stuff.
I'm pretty sure anyway.
God, a waste mace window is my uncle.
Imagine how out of left field it would have been if in the last Jedi during that big conclusion,
Kylo had given the answer to Ray that he gives an episode nine.
He would have been like, yeah, your grandfather's Palpatine.
And she would have been like, Oh, I guess, I guess that's not really relevant to me.
Yeah, well, she would be like that, because she wouldn't know who he is,
because she thinks all of it is a myth.
But yeah, it'd be pretty daunting to realize that you are the direct descendant
of what is essentially space Hitler.
So you'd be like, Oh, fuck.
Some some people can do improv comedy.
Well, Quinton is not one of them cannot do it.
He can't do it.
Quinton, stop stop doing gradual incremental zooms on your face to indicate
to the audience that this is a joke now.
It's not funny joke.
It's a fight for editing.
OK, some just why not?
You know, why'd you got to be hatin?
I want to fucking die when I watch that sort of shit.
Because I'm thinking, do I do that with my doggo pictures?
I'm like, maybe every like for a word like any word sparing.
Yeah, it's like at the end, like I'm asking a question rhetorically and I go,
no, and it zooms in for that one word and then we're back to normal.
And we don't he starts to zoom in at the beginning of a joke.
Like here it comes.
You guys get ready for the epic laws.
And then the answer is really like silly.
And then it goes back to normal.
Janice Cohen said sudden realization.
Quinton didn't have time to unpack his apartment fully enough to unbox
all the things he needs for his work.
But he did have enough time to pull out the sex doll.
All the sex doll that requires several people to carry.
I mean, you don't want to be alone when you go to sleep that night.
I can put up my precious fucking acoustic tiles or I could get my sex doll
propped up for the camera.
One of these, it's more important than the other in a matching outfit.
Yeah.
And dress her and dress it.
Did you fucking assume the gender rags?
What of the sex doll?
Yeah, that's important.
What did I say the gender was because I can't remember.
I said she.
Yeah, I'm being generous.
No, it's not alive.
The whole randomly zooming in on stuff.
I don't actually have a problem with it in general.
It's just when when you only have that when that's your only tool.
When that's supposed to be the joke, not to.
No, that's a joke zooming in and abrupt cuts away in the middle of like a word.
Like those are the two sudden noises.
And I and I know those things because I use those things and I'm not funny.
Oh, well, there you go.
Oh, thank you.
I think it's sweet of you.
I think you're all fucking generally.
Oh, yeah.
And Aiden said she sent me a Quinton's DM calling JK a turf for supporting chromosomes existing.
Oh, really?
That's hilarious.
To be clear, the doll is probably more expensive than the tiles and his fans did pay for it.
Yes, objectively, it is tiles are like fucking 100 for like a 24 pec.
I yeah, I agree.
Or this situation.
I'm sorry.
I was asking about my my let's let's let's work on what's happening.
Why does he think that would be how it plays out?
This is so incredibly dishonest for him to try and see how is this people.
Thanks to Ryan Johnson.
Fucking it up.
People are like see her parents.
It wouldn't have mad if her parent was John who worked at the local bar or Emperor Palpatine.
It's like, what do you mean?
There's major implications for how you're viewed by everybody.
What your potential is in this universe in terms of like it was that thing I had in that clip.
And it's like, is the how do people look at her now?
How does that change people?
Like, how does how does Finn feel about it knowing she's a Palpatine?
She's the granddaughter of the guy who would just arbitrarily blow up planets of people is like,
well, and I feel like it changes a few things.
Don't tell Ray why Snoke wanted her.
Because she was she should be in the film confused as fuck as to why does Snoke give a shit about me?
I'm just some chick.
And then he's like, oh, yeah, you're the granddaughter of Palpatine.
And then there's the whole like giving any reason for it to be tempted to the dark side
because she's perfect.
So like, you go, I don't know, your grandfather was the darkest side, dark side person there was.
And you should be like,
Blacker than the blackest black times infinity.
And I suppose then the question becomes like, yes, yes, yes.
These are all details that are like outside of her character, though.
What does it matter to her character?
And I should be like, well, maybe you were supposed to take care of her character alongside doing this stuff.
Who you are, who your family is has oftentimes a huge impact on who you are.
That's true.
This is kind of what I'm getting at.
Like if they'd actually focused on giving her a character and this was going on as well.
There's lots to play with.
Yeah, what is your perspective of this?
Nazism.
How would you feel if Emperor Palpatine was your granddaddy?
Oh, pretty good.
Oh, fucking say that right there.
I'm going to when he dies, I'm going to get an empire.
Yeah, I mean, a lot of pros.
Wouldn't that be an interesting question?
He like offers it to her and she's like she talks to Finn about how if she takes over,
she can make it a force for good.
That could be a there's an ethical issue there.
Absolutely.
That would be really interesting.
Rey becomes the empress of the first order and tries to turn things around.
And all of the it's a shame in a way, but it's it would work in this sense.
But since all of the stormtroopers and everything are brainwashed anyway,
they'll just do what they're told.
They don't have like an ideological real position on whatever it is the first order is about,
which still hasn't been explained.
Don't just be like, OK, yeah, sure.
I just like the quintet if he's in the scene with them and Kylo says your grandfather's Palpatine.
The quiz like, well, that doesn't really matter.
He's like, what?
This doesn't matter.
You fucking kidding me right now.
Like seriously, he's like, well, you know.
Well, it's like it's like having nobody prepared.
She's like, what do you mean?
It's like, what if you woke up one day and the police came knocking on your door and said,
hey, by the way, we find out that your father is actually like a mass murdering serial killer.
He's responsible for hundreds and hundreds of deaths.
And he like raped children and kicked puppies and all sorts of terrible things.
And you're like, oh, fuck.
Yeah, like that would probably have an impact on you.
That would probably change the way that you love people and how you value lineages.
And I think I think you could have a lot of conflict there.
Like Finn could be standoffish with her.
And she's like, really, dude, he's not me.
And he's like, I know.
That would have been interesting.
But Quentin just treats it like this is a joke scenario that would have been stupid
and dumb and like, no, that there's something there.
Yeah, that's something to clarify, by the way, because like, you know,
I advocated for the potential of her being related to Palpatine.
The main source of that is the fact that we need an explanation for a ridiculous power
with no training, right?
It's like the it's almost like an ejector seat for making sense.
Like, this is all we got, guys.
This is the best we've got.
This is all we could do.
We're stuck.
But then, you know, there's also like, but what interesting things can we do with with that?
And like, I think that people could be like, see, you got what you wanted.
It rises Skywalker.
I'd be like, but they didn't do anything with it.
They were just like, yeah, it's just Palpatine lol.
Okay.
Yay.
Did it, guys.
Nailed it.
Right.
Simply matter is that they have no effect on Rey or her friends or the plot of the films
or the importance of the narrative or really anything.
And more importantly, they can.
Like, the fact that Ryan made it irrelevant and then JJ didn't do a lot with it,
is he almost like played with it.
JJ, when he had the the false vision of her being an evil to him,
he's like, look, like, yeah, I don't really know what's going on here.
In fact, when she had a scary Bilbo teeth, I was confused.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna roll him back as well.
Better is that they have no effect on Rey or her friends or the plot of the films or the
importance of the narrative or really anything.
And more importantly, it doesn't answer the biggest question that the audience has in their
mind, which is what is the point of the sequel films?
Is this all just going to be the original trilogy, but with better special effects?
Is there going to be an actual point to the fact that I've become
invested in all of these movies?
And are you?
I guess he's asking for like a more meaningful point to the three of them as a whole.
I got nothing.
I mean, not like this, you're gonna you if you want something meaningful,
you got to work for it.
Like, I think I put a tweet out about this, but I was like,
if you're going to be as generous as possible, and like,
what is the unifying element of the three films in terms of a point they're trying to make?
It's like, you, you choose your own identity.
It's not defined by like other people.
I think is what they're going for.
In Finn, you can totally try and say like he wasn't defined by the institution that he was
brought up in.
Ray.
He broke free of the institutional racism.
Yes.
Ray became a free man.
She chose to be a different family because her current one was a dick.
And then Poe, I've got nothing.
Poe is just sort of there.
He drives a he drives a ship.
Pew pew.
Also, everything he does is evil, according to other characters,
even though he's probably the person who did the most there outside of Ray.
It's a mess of a trilogy is the point.
Yep.
All of these questions by subverting the audience's expectations.
Kylo Ren goes from the Anakin Skywalker figure waiting to be redeemed to the Palpatine figure,
the mass murderer whose motivations are exclusively that he's hungry for power.
This is something even his own mother admits.
Ben Solo is dead.
There is no going back.
Well, she was fucking wrong then, wasn't she?
Yeah, I don't know.
TLJ doesn't seem to give up on on Kylo at the end, though.
You remember when he picks up the dice?
I thought the point was trying to be like, you know, he's not.
That's been my issue with it the whole time is that it's like he might be a good,
but he might be good.
Well, even when Luke made a space apparition instead of showing up in person,
which was confirmed he could have done when he shows up as an apparition, he he's like,
I don't even want to talk to you.
I'm going to be standoffish and a dick to you.
Oh, yeah.
I remember what he says.
I'm going to try to reason or understand.
That's the library.
You can save my soul.
Luke's such an asshole.
Oh, yeah, that's Luke.
Yeah, that's Luke Skywalker.
He just fucking gave up on Kylo.
He absolutely gave up on Kylo.
Imagine being related to Kylo, though.
That would suck.
That would suck.
You're like, geez, this is all I got left.
You're like layers around.
You're like, well, I guess I'll give him my ex-girlfriend's dice.
He's a very interesting character, Luke.
The attempt to redeem him would be an insult to the impossibly high amount of people that
he has personally slain for no motivation outside of his own greed.
That's motivation.
In that case, Quentin's saying you cannot be redeemed once you've killed enough people,
I guess.
I guess.
Sorry, Darth Vader.
But I guess we talked about the earlier.
But there's a difference between being I mean, redemption is a complicated thing.
It's not like a binary sort of.
Oh, yeah.
All's forgiven.
You're good.
Guys, for 15 minutes into the video, and he has only mentioned Rise of Skywalker,
like early in this video.
He's only mentioned its last scene.
Then the first scene, it opens up like this massive tangent.
And at the end.
Oh, all right.
Chad's book, I believe he was talking about how that his book tackles the idea of redemption
and how far can someone go before they can no longer be redeemed.
Read his book, Quentin.
Do it.
You won't do it.
Realizes that she needs to read Matt's book other than her friends and that that's okay,
because she can continue fighting for good without trying to protect some sort of personal legacy.
Through this, the mysticism of the Jedi is reborn again.
Anyone can do is always like that.
Yeah, anyone.
Yeah, this was it was always like that.
It was never not like that.
You can be a Jedi, I can be a Jedi, Broom Boy can be a Jedi.
That's the whole fucking that's what everybody likes about stalls in the first place.
Everybody was pretending to be Jedi.
This isn't like we no one was surprised by this.
Jedi could come from anywhere.
I mean, look at Anakin.
The point of that scene, it's a beautiful moment.
We have a more interesting bad guy.
No, it's not interesting.
Once again, something of a bad guy.
It's not interesting.
Once again, something approachable.
More interesting back.
It's all about Kylo.
Yeah.
Is he talking about Kylo?
All wrong in the sense that he's interestingly just inconsistent.
That people often describe as interesting because they've got nothing else to really
pit down.
It's like he's I can't figure him out.
He must be interesting.
It's like, no, he's just shit.
So it's a weird.
I don't know.
What's the nicest thing you can say about him as a character?
He's got a he's got a great bod.
All right.
I'm not wrong.
Oh, as a character.
Oh, the best thing that I could say about him as a character.
Oh, well, he's focused.
Is he?
Yeah, he's got determination.
Is he?
He's yeah.
He seems to flip flop a lot in terms of what do you mean?
Like of whatever thing he's currently into.
He's very focused on.
Yeah, I guess.
Sure.
Let's go with that.
Okay.
That's my answer.
There we go.
We did it.
We did it, guys.
We have an interesting bad guy.
Audience.
And the ending of the film sets up a final movie that has to be something more creative
than just episode six.
It doesn't even have to be creative.
Just like solidly written.
Like don't get this happens in video games.
But we see this in video games and movies all the time.
They try to make this super complicated, deep galaxy brain, triple decker bus of a story.
When they should just have something really simple.
That's well executed.
Episode six, but bigger is what you're here.
Everyone's wanting to do.
So he just fucking ignores everything and makes episode six, but bigger anyways.
There's a moment in episode eight where Kyler and looks at his mask
and he recognizes that he only wears the mask in order to emulate Darth Vader.
And he realized
the motivation for wearing a mask is pretty like I don't even know.
Do we ever even find out beyond the idea that he seems to be a Vader fanboy?
Because the Knights of Rental wear masks.
I don't know why they wear masks.
Do they?
I mean, wearing a mask is an intimidating thing.
Even if you don't need a mask, the anonymity of masks and the design that they can have and
putting in, you know, it's a very intimidating thing.
Remember Snoke describes it as silly and it's like, Snoke, where have you been, buddy?
He's been wearing this thing for a while.
I get that Ryan hates the mask.
Just now with the breaking point.
That's what I mean.
Like it was weird.
I assumed it was more to the mask than just,
I want to hide behind a mask and look like Vader.
It's like, okay.
Well, all right.
I guess I like audiences were like, man, that mask is cool.
The voice and like, it was kind of nifty.
It was kind of weird seeing Adam Driver's head behind it, but that mask is really wow.
Yes.
Kind of imposing, but himself and he smashes the thing into the wall
and this represents him and the trilogy becoming individualized.
They're all individualized.
Wait, wait.
I also have a comment on the video right now.
It's like he couldn't even be bothered to center the camera.
He's not in frame.
I just realized that's why I said this.
That's why I said this editing was weird.
Yeah, it's like he made sure the sex doll was.
Instead of making the scene you're showing bigger, he just zooms into it.
Yeah, that's what he does.
You know what's really fucking about that sex doll?
It looks like Onision.
It's like really creeping me out on a deep subconscious level.
I suppose Quinton had the choice of several if he went with Onision one.
I mean, his sex doll is a top.
Oh, my God.
Guys, I'm going to need some fucking researchers on this.
Get on that.
Thank you.
Oh, my God.
I'm going to use the loon.
I'll be right back.
Discuss Onision's doll amongst yourselves.
What a strange collection of things.
Well, you got the Mickey Mouse doll, a sex doll, a Dalek and a transformer.
If you walked into this guy's house, you would assume he's got like some bodies locked away.
Frightening, to say the least.
Like, I know it's like funny internet, like jokes and like visuals.
But if like camera aside, if you saw this, you would have some very deep.
If you took a girl home, I don't know if you straight or not.
If you took a girl home, you probably have a lot of fucking apprehension.
Yeah, about continuing seeing this man, man.
She would say that'd be like, I'd like to explain to you what a red flag is.
She leans in, she leans in to kiss him and she asks,
OK, why does your face smell like used panties?
On the first date, we got that far.
That's ridiculous.
Leading in for a kiss.
What do you mean?
Generous.
Play creation.
So it all looks disappointed.
It does.
This is my life.
Rolling its eyes.
Perpetually.
Yeah, what do you think about the sex doll?
I need your commentary.
Oh, it looks like Disney's having a lot of fun with it.
Greg and Disney are going to make their own sex dolls eventually.
Disney plus adult section.
I don't know.
I was just thinking like you just like you liked Darth Vader.
How do you like him now?
And you're like, oh, oh, no.
Disney, please.
Can you order that directly from the comfort of your own couch on this plus?
I would hope so.
Ripe for business.
And they have like you can you can set it up so that they have like
confirmed deliverers that can get into your house and deliver it directly to your sofa.
And you're like, oh, yeah, thank you.
Address it for you.
All you've got on is like a pillow covering your crotch.
Set it down right there.
Thank you.
Yes, perfect.
Do I owe you anything?
Like, let me leave.
Can I go?
You got to sign this thing.
Please just sign it.
First of all, I won't sign until you sit down.
I've got to test it.
How about a collaboration?
Need you to help me test it.
Need you.
It's in your goddamn job description.
You got to give me a five star review.
You guys still talking about sex, sex, Dolanisium?
Yes.
Yes.
And Quentin's incredible editing.
What did it accomplish with being that?
Few other Star Wars films have literally just chosen to be a different Star Wars film,
but with a larger scale.
What was the purpose of doing all that?
Is this entire sequel franchise just going to be the original trilogy, but on a bigger scale?
And what makes me love The Last Jedi is that all of these qualms and more are addressed within the
film.
Even if it's in a way, these questions can really be answered in a way that will satisfy
the long hunger that the audience has had for them.
There are no potential answers to any of these mystery box questions that don't.
I must have dragged him back more than I intended to.
You must have.
Yeah, this seems familiar.
It doesn't answer the biggest question that the audience has in their mind.
We're at least at 15.
Oh, okay.
Our friends and that that's okay, because she can continue fighting for good
without trying to protect some sort of personal legacy.
Through this, the mysticism of the Jedi is reborn again.
Anyone can be a Jedi.
You can be a Jedi.
I can be a Jedi.
Broom Boy can be a Jedi.
I didn't think they fucking got a Jedi.
That's the point of that scene.
It's a beautiful moment.
We have a more interesting-
Do you think the Jedi farming factory-
I didn't catch that he described Broom Boy as a beautiful moment.
A beautiful moment.
It's a beautiful advertisement for future Star Wars.
Oh, Broom Boy.
Just do it.
Does he think that the Jedi Order just had like fucking Jedi baby factories
and they'd farm them and pluck them off the trees when they were ripe?
Yes.
Well, there you go.
I didn't.
Star Wars, Star Wars Valley.
With that, yeah.
Yeah, there's some in there, but I'm not that invested, so let's continue.
Nothing bad, guy.
The Force is once again something approachable to the audience.
The ending of the film sets up a final movie that has to be something more creative.
It does not set up anything.
Yeah, I mean, it's-
No, I think he's right, but not in the way that he means.
You gotta be pretty fucking creative to make the end of the last Jedi good.
So I'll agree with him on that.
It's like he was passed a baton while running,
and then he passes the next guy at Advil.
You're like, ow, okay, wow, I gotta rub with this.
All right, this is, mm-hmm, okay, I can do it.
I think it rides like, bye.
Thanks.
Then just episode six, but bigger.
But doing episode six, but bigger is what Juju Abrams wanted to do,
so he just fucking ignores everything and makes up-
Okay, I gotta take some issue.
The plot of episode nine was a disaster that has nothing to do with the plot of episode six.
I can see the ending, but how can someone call episode nine a bigger remake of episode six,
considering all of the stupid knife and the stupid McGuffins and the stupid-
Mueller, I think yesterday I told you that Rise of Skywalker was like 37 movies crammed
into a blender and then spat out and then sprinkled with Star Wars stuff.
Like I said, the ending, I can see it.
For the rest of it, nah, if someone said,
the plot, it's just like episode six, but bigger.
I'd be like, where's the sand monster vagina thing?
Give me that, hmm?
Where's the big vision of that?
I'm outraged.
I want that big pussy, yes.
Episode six, but bigger anyways.
There's a moment in episode eight where Kylo Ren looks at his mask,
and he recognizes that he only wears the mask in order to emulate Darth Vader,
and he realizes that-
Again, this happens after he's called stupid for wearing it,
rather than, like it's a silly thing.
There's not, I don't know, I feel like you're reading a little into it that he's like,
I don't want to be like Darth Vader no more.
He's not Darth Vader, he's no one but himself,
and he smashes the thing into the wall, and this represents him-
I know where he's going with it, but just a JJ repaired the mask.
Just like, yeah, it's funny.
It's so unnecessary and yet funny.
And the trilogy becoming individualized, their own separate entities.
And then at the start of episode nine,
Kylo Ren pulls all the pieces to his mask out of his junk drawer,
and super glues them back together and puts the mask back on.
I feel this is the most clear metaphor for what episode nine is in relation to episode eight.
I think we'd all agree with that.
Yeah, he didn't.
He fucking hated that Ryan destroyed that cool mask.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
I think, like, I was that-
When I was the baddest at Matt Garbo's autistic brother, yes.
It was that, like, not leak, but inside post or whatever,
about how, like, JJ Abrams actually really hated TLJ behind the scenes,
and I'm like, I could totally believe it after seeing his movie.
Absolutely.
The Luke thing was just, like, a big fuck you to Ryan Johnson.
I think that's probably the most over one, right?
Like, this deserves more respect.
It's like, wow.
And I'd be like, yeah, you should fucking treat that thing with more respect.
I want to see, like, I want to watch the entirety of Ryan watching the film.
I sort of be, like, sitting in front of him, staring at him, like, go on, react.
I also think, oh, yeah, sorry, go ahead, Mauler.
I was just going to say, in favor of corporatism and stuff,
I imagine he'd be like, I really liked it.
It was a very good film.
He had to say it.
And I'd like to think that there was a line against Holdo.
You remember in TLJ when Holdo was like, you bet the resistance on bad odds.
And then we find out that the Holdo maneuver was a billion for one shot.
Oh, my God.
Oh, that's great.
I actually, yeah, because the amount of like, she I think we talked about this on our stream
about the film, but the this film essentially tells us that she's just an incompetent coward.
She tried to run away and she accidentally because she spun a wheel that had a million
points of results and she hit the one that ends up in her dying.
She's like, God damn it.
She's like, I did it.
This is the thing.
They interpret that as she saved the world.
It's like, guys, she was trying to run away.
Did you get it?
Now she's a hero.
No, no, no, no.
Yeah, obviously.
In response to Snoke being killed, the films bring back Palpatine.
So once again, Kylo Ren can be the Anakin Skywalker figure
waiting to defeat the Emperor figure to be redeemed.
The force is once again rewritten to be all about blood ties.
Ray.
No, it isn't her.
No, it's about her specifically.
Not to mention.
Finn has the force tisms in this movie.
If you remember when, when Ray is force sensitive,
you know, when Ray, quote unquote, dies, he's like, oh, my God.
I feel to tell you something.
And Epstein didn't kill himself.
Well, I think she Ray would know that she's a little she's
on the mission.
That's the one.
Oh, man, I just like that.
It's about bloodlines again.
It's like, I mean, what's Finn's bloodline?
Finn Skywalker.
It's the it's called the Skywalker saga.
What did you expect?
I mean, Jesus Christ.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, I guess what he's trying to say is that
I think he misses the point that the Jedi could be anyone could be a Jedi.
I think he missed that because I don't know.
He didn't watch the prequels that much because the prequels,
like the Jedi Knights were like, they weren't like
Skywalkers, but they were still Jedi.
And I, I don't know why he's so focused on the bloodline.
It's just it's their story.
This I'm just that makes sense.
Like, I guess.
Well, because like our issue with it isn't that she has power.
It's that she's the most powerful being in the history of the world.
And we're like, how come?
Like, what is it that and I guess he liked the idea that, yeah,
it's just there is no reason anybody can be the most powerful just like that.
And we're all like, but oh, yeah, you have to earn the things you get in life.
Like, yeah, yes, there is a thing such as talent.
But it goes a little further than that.
Like you can't like all the greatest people at all different crafts.
They weren't born the best at those crafts.
And yeah, actually, that that last scene in the in the last Jedi,
when the kid just magically knows how to manipulate the broom
without being told how to I did actually didn't like that.
I'm fine with that because it's really simple.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, I'm I'm okay with that.
Yeah, because just pulling a light broom towards you.
I'm like, that's probably something you could figure out on your own.
And he wasn't like under stress or duress while he was doing it.
Um, so I'm fine with that.
If he was trying, if it's something complicated or something really big,
I mean, yeah, that's weird.
But I think you could sell I think if you figure out your force sensitive,
you might not know it's the force.
You might not know about the Jedi and stuff, but you're like,
Oh, maybe if I concentrate and practice this thing I could do, I can make it better.
It's like every other skill that I have.
Excuse me.
Hello.
Sorry.
So if she just had a degree of power that was on par with just the random Jedi we
probably saw in the prequels or whatever, we'd probably be much more forgiving.
But holy fuck, she do some incredible stuff.
Those boulders, she moved bad.
Yoda would have been like, Whoa, how do you do that?
Yeah, even even when Yoda pulled out the X-wing, he had some difficulty with that.
Yeah.
Remember when lifting a spaceship out of water was kind of difficult?
Simpler times, Rags.
Simpler times.
There's the force because she has superior genes that she inherited from her grandfather.
And the porgs are no longer nested in the Falcon.
That might seem like the smallest of issues.
What?
But to me, it's one of the most spineless.
What?
That was spineless!
Guys, I need help reacting to something.
I must have heard him wrong.
I need to hear the whole thing because I feel like I'm in a different
universe that he just complained about that.
And the pores are no longer nested in the Falcon.
How do we know?
We don't actually know that.
Yeah, one, we don't actually know that for sure.
Two, it's been a year.
They may have cleared the board.
That's probably the porgs lifespan.
It's not even, why would you want them nesting in the Falcon?
You'd be like, you don't want wild animals taking up residence inside of your ship
where they could chew and wires.
Not only is it actually dangerous for the porgs,
but it's also like, don't fuck up our extremely important missions.
Oh my God.
I remember Jenny Nicholson's video for some reason.
Doesn't she have all the porgs there also?
Um, oh, he's, yeah, this is, this is what he was triggering in my head, by the way.
He put out a tweet about this.
Yeah.
Which doesn't make any sense at all.
He's like, oh, it's been a year.
There should still be porgs there.
Like nobody gave a shit and just left them.
He's like, no, it would be weird if they were still there.
Yeah, that would be a weird thing.
Oh, of course.
I should gedelb this.
That's true.
What should the gedelb line be?
What did he describe it as?
Spineless.
Spineless.
Spineless.
No, no, the most spineless thing.
Yeah, yeah, the most spineless, I think.
Disgusting.
Spineless.
So that's his biggest problem with the rice of Skywalker is the spineless thing they did.
The porgs were not, I mean, forget Rose Tico being sidelined.
The porgs, man.
They didn't get, oh, they were only in for like two seconds
on that stupid fucking island that we saw again.
I don't know what to say.
An interesting take, Quentin.
Maybe this is his chud take, the ones that chud will be upset about.
And the porgs are no longer nested in the Falcon.
That might seem like the smallest of issues, but to me, it's one of the most spineless
because the fact that the porgs had nested in the Falcon was just adorable
and would definitely have made several scenes in this movie a lot easier to handle.
Like I said, I sort of forced myself to find...
They weren't cute, they were weird.
They are strange.
They're strange animals.
Chewbacca is my hero for consuming them in front of their relatives.
Yeah, I went on a whole rant when the first Last Jedi trailer came out.
I was like, why does anyone like this shit?
They've got really deep, like dark shark eyes.
They have fangs for some reason.
They kind of like have this penguin body.
Like they're all over the place, aesthetically.
Kill them.
Shit!
Kill the porgs!
Beautiful.
Most of this whiplash to be amusing to the extent that I didn't get mad about it in the theater.
But the one thing that did really piss me off
was how Rian Johnson said to himself while making the Last Jedi,
there's not enough Asian representation in Hollywood.
They're like overrepresented though.
Here we go.
There's barely any Asians and they're overrepresented in Hollywood.
What does he mean by underrepresented?
I mean that all of everyone should be equal.
Or does he mean in relation to the amount of people that are in the population in general?
Because you'd never know.
If it's equal to the percentage of the population, they're overrepresented in Hollywood.
Mm-hmm.
But if they should have exactly the same as every other color and creed,
then they're not rags, you racist.
I guess I am.
And Ryan tried to fix that racism.
And what did JJ do?
He shat on it.
I guess he expects all the numbers to be even.
Like as many white people as we see in Hollywood.
We're supposed to see many Asians, Blacks, South Asians, whatever the fuck.
But it's like-
Yeah, that's how it works.
What do you expect Hollywood to do, Quinton?
Round these people up on a ship and ship them here?
And that's just-
We've already done that.
That's not even going into sexual preference and what they identify as
and their political leanings and what their favorite fucking flavor of pie is.
It's no end.
I personally, I want to see more pie enthusiasts in movies.
It's just my take.
Cake, no pie.
Cake, no pie.
Waffles.
You know what's underrepresented as a pie?
Boysenberry.
I think Nazis as good guys are underrepresented.
So there.
I'm thinking a rhubarb pie deserves a little bit more identification immediately.
Enough love for rhubarb, like publicly.
Rhubarb.
It's good.
Rhubarb sounds like a really, that sounds like a Star Wars name for a character.
It kind of does.
Like Jondu Rhubarb or something.
Jondu Rhubarb.
Jondu Rhubarb.
Classic Jedi Master Rhubarb.
Jedi Master Jondu Rhubarb.
Is that to be Rhubarb?
The Jedi Master Jondu Rhubarb.
Four spies.
While making The Last Jedi, there's not enough Asian representation in Hollywood.
I want to introduce an Asian main character to this trilogy.
And JJ Abrams responded by going, no.
Yeah, because your character was shit and pointless.
No, no, no.
Yeah, I'm sure someone asked me when.
No, he's using his own merchandise cup.
Screen cut that.
I like what he kept this in.
I'm curious if it's going to be like a bitch plug for in a second.
But yeah, the like, I'm sorry.
She's just so the fact that they've got a black main character, a female main character,
and a Hispanic main character accounts for nothing because they didn't have an Asian main character.
Obviously, it's like that doesn't command.
It's a minefield trying to please these people.
You're like, is this cool?
They're like, no, unless you do it this very specific way.
You're like, OK, I did it.
Then some other subgroup are like, no, you got to do it this way.
You're like, oh, Jesus Christ.
OK, you didn't have our group in there.
No, no, correct.
She's not.
She's not a main character.
She can be in the movie.
She's lucky that she got the main character.
She wasn't a main character to begin with.
Yeah, she was a secondary.
And she was a bad secondary character.
Remember the iconic scene where she said love will win while the base is being destroyed.
That was such a great moment for Star Wars.
This is what I mean.
The stupid conversation can't go anywhere because they're always like,
you're racist.
You don't like her.
It's like, but she's awful.
It's got nothing to do with it being Asian.
Yeah, so why aren't you mad at Ryan Jones?
Why aren't you mad at Ryan Johnson for watching and making people hate her?
Why aren't you mad at that?
Yeah, that's what you need to be mad at.
Why didn't he make a lovable character that we were really wanting to see?
This is on him.
Maybe he hates Asians.
Bad female Asian driver.
Like, that's what you want to be.
What's what you want Asians to be represented as.
Because that's what she wants in that movie.
How much Inuit representation is there?
Almost none.
What a fucking racist piece of shit.
I don't care about the Asian character.
We need the Inuit character.
She needed to be in an igloo.
That's what it was.
That space igloo.
Oh my god, that's so racist.
But in the Inuit's live in igloos, even though it's what they do.
Whoa.
See, I never said that.
You've connected dots that are so racist.
I can't even see them.
Oh my god, your racism is so powerful.
It transcended my ability to stand out.
Being like the rebellion group scenes.
And I'll give her lines.
Basically the lines I would have given Admiral Ackbar.
But no, she's not a lead.
Admiral Ackbar's a better character.
She got people killed.
You fucking puppet.
Yeah, she's quite a horrible creature actually.
Like in terms of a character.
If only like the insanity that she was just zapping people and capturing them.
Whether or not they're even a part of the resistance.
That's her opening.
You can't leave.
You must die with us.
I'm like, whoa, fucking hell.
How many video essays did we watch, right?
They would be like, Finn was abandoning the resistance that he was fighting for.
It's like, no, he never agreed to that.
He was a dude who was not cool with the First Order and wanted to save Ray.
That was his story.
He was like, Ray's captured.
I want to save her.
It's like, oh, this resistance thing is a thing too.
You never fucking signed up.
How about that?
He's like, okay then.
Well, yeah, it destroys everyone's narratives about how much of a coward he is in the opening.
Instead, it's just, yeah, I'm not a part of this war.
I want out.
I just like the, I have a friend called Ray that I want to look after.
It's like, no, you're a coward now.
Yeah.
It's like, she's my friend.
That doesn't mean I have to be on her team.
And that brings it to questions like, is Ray even a part of the resistance?
Like, I guess.
Sort of.
She does stuff that they want.
So I guess, sure.
Yeah, I guess we should probably mention if people are unaware of this,
but there's like a huge thing on Twitter about like Rose Tico deserved better or
Calibri Tran deserved better.
It's like, what the fuck?
Treat it like she was murdered.
Didn't they show her in the fucking, in this movie, like six, maybe seven times.
And she just like kind of.
She had like three minutes of screen time or something.
Yeah, I think they calculated it.
It was like a minute and 17 seconds, I think.
Oh, too much.
Too much.
Yeah, way too much.
Way too much.
Way too much.
Like her lines were just like, look over there.
I think we talked about it before, but just Finn's like, come with us.
And she's like, I got to scan some deaths.
Yeah, destroyers.
And it's just like, fuck off with the issue, the dialogue as well.
Sorry, she's not a main character.
I know this doesn't want to happen,
but it truly feels like JJ Abrams responded to the massive harassment
that Kelly massive harassment received.
Still don't even believe that happened.
I still don't even believe I don't believe that was real.
I don't believe she got any more than most actors get.
Because if anything, if she had and they could prove it,
oh, man, you'd think she'd say something about it.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah.
This green cap bitch.
Because she was in this movie by putting her in the movie list
to make them more happy.
What the fuck?
Because he still wanted them to.
Why?
This is your mind on subjectivity.
You go nuts.
You start like creating all these conspiracy things.
JJ just took it out to please the people who harass.
What is more likely?
He is pandering to racists or the character was bad.
You're at and he can't figure out how to put her in the movie.
I mean, pandering to racists, obviously.
In the boardroom, they're like, right.
We've panned into the Raylow fans.
We've panned into the people didn't like TLJ.
Now we've got the racists over here.
They have like a guy to represent the racist.
He's like, yeah.
So these are our demands.
If you could just satisfy any of these five.
A race.
Yeah, he was in that boardroom.
When the meeting happened, I can get that KKK dollar.
This is this Rose Tico character.
Can you get rid of her?
They're like, she's our favorite.
He classifies the first order is Nazis.
So why didn't they just make the Nazi characters look like good characters
if they wanted to pander to races?
Well, this is the thing that would be too overt.
When they say that like the makers are racist,
they'll often be like, well, they're subtle about it or whatever.
I just be like, no, you're just incompetent at this point.
Oh, yeah.
So Quentin, so Quentin's the only galaxy brain who can see the races.
We're just we're just like, we're just fucking puppets.
We're we're unwoke.
We're not as woke as he is.
He sees through the lies of the Hollywood.
He knows what's truly happening.
But yes, go on, Quentin.
It was how unfathomable that it could have been that she's just a shitty character.
What ridiculous world that would be.
Not possible for an Asian woman.
Not possible possible.
Because he still wanted them to be able to buy tickets without getting mad.
So literally, they didn't know that until they watched the film.
Like, yes, if they'd read the leaks, they'd know that she wasn't did it very much.
But from the trailers, I guess you could probably gather that she's not in it very much too.
But she was in one of the trailers like so.
Just the idea that it's like he did it so that they would buy the tickets.
It's like, but they could they wouldn't the racists wouldn't have known for sure that she wasn't in it.
It's such a dumb thing to be so funny.
I thought she was kept on all the trailers, but she's the main character.
The racist like, no, move over, Ray.
It's Rose Tico time.
It's Tico time.
It's like he's validating the people who were harassing her.
Okay.
Maybe this is the last year I've discovered.
All right, I guess.
Pissing off white supremacists.
Why are we talking about white supremacists?
What the fuck?
I guess it is.
I guess this is the part.
I mean, all those people like like these people legit believe, I guess,
that if you didn't like Rose Tico as a character, you're a white fucking supremacist.
That's so dumb, man.
Jesus Christ.
I just this.
How does how does this sentence conclude?
In the last year, I have discovered that pissing off white supremacists dot, dot, dot.
You're like, where where you go with this?
I mean, if we're sticking to stereotypes, white men love Asian girls.
So yeah.
What's up?
Yeah, we like.
Yeah, we like pretty Asian women.
At least Quinn's committing to the whole random harsh political takes.
It is.
Well, I I'll take that back.
It's like Kelly Rietrand isn't ugly.
They just like made her ugly for Star Wars, which is.
Oh, yeah.
People have shipped images of her like in promotional stuff.
And it's like, why did they frump her in the movies?
Like, why did they go out of their way to make her look ugly?
Weird.
That must be the hair, the anime hair that Ryan gave her, the weird like
like rise, you're like a fucking upside down show.
Yeah, really, really weird hair.
You know, whatever.
It's me.
But in the last year, I've discovered that pissing off white supremacists
is the most easy and fun thing to do in the world.
How can you say that with the team that you're a part of?
Like you guys have turned into currency.
You know what a lot of them like to do is just say really dumb shit on Twitter
and then people call them on it and they go,
look at all these fucking pissed off white supremacists in my mentions.
It's like always the same exact formula.
Oh, yeah, that's like Sean's whole account.
It's just parody now, right?
Like you just posts things to piss people off, but that's the account.
So I'm trying to be smug about it.
Yeah, like if you react to it, you're an idiot.
And Chase, have you seen the trend where they go muted,
blocked as if it's some sort of I've muted this entire thread
because all the angry fucking neckbeards keep responding.
It's like, okay, I said something on social media and people replied to it.
Well, I fans now.
And the crazy thing is they think that's a win.
It's like, oh, yeah, that's the thing you can do.
Makes them an ally.
I like that as his appealing is like JJ pissed them off.
It's fun.
It's like they brag about their block list.
It's like, no, no, that makes you a little bitch.
That doesn't make you an amazing virtue, a small insulated child.
Yeah, it was a pretty good pause, actually.
Twitter is just if I ever if I ever kill myself and you guys find out
that I did it after the fact, just assume it was probably Twitter's fault to some degree.
Find you in your apartment with a belt around your neck and Twitter in your hand.
Yeah, cock in your hands.
Yeah, that's probably more like I was gonna leave that to the imagination.
But I'll experiment gone wrong.
And don't get me wrong.
It will end with you having less income than when you weren't doing it.
Oh, he saw.
Yeah, the white supremacist took away my money.
The white his I guess he's tried to say that he pissed off his audience and a
lot of them were white supremacists.
I guess I'm an unlikable shoulder.
It doesn't make me like I'm ironically coincidentally your lesser money coming in
more than likely tides your decision that in your mainline videos, you fucking gave up.
I can't be asked to edit anymore.
Yeah, can't be any of that.
Can't be your stupid fucking worthless garbage.
It can't be that it's because of the white apprentices stop giving you money.
It was like, okay.
All right.
All right, Quinton, whatever helps you sleep at night.
But in response, you get the instant gratification of knowing that Nazis hate you.
And oh, baby, that's priceless.
He said this before.
It's the most like pat on the back comments he ever does.
Like Nazis don't like me.
It's like, it's kind of sad like me.
Doesn't matter.
The other meme from Rick and Morty where Jerry has a t-shirt with his own face on it.
He's really happy about himself.
Like it's supposed to be the idealized version of him being of his own ass.
I just pictured that with Quinton.
He's got his own face on his own t-shirt drinking from his mug that has his face on it.
And he's just like, I hate Nazis.
I'm a good man.
You're like, you did it, man.
And then another Quinton walks in the room and puts his hand on his shoulder.
Like, good job, buddy.
You did it.
Good for you, man.
Nazis hate you.
Yeah, I'm trying to say I'm a really good person.
He's a good person.
I'm like the most benevolent kind of person that exists.
And just want to remind you, if Nazis hate you, you must be virtuous.
The Nazis didn't hate any other terrible group of people.
And as we know, all of the greatest virtuous people of planet Earth's history,
they all announced it.
And the bitter irony is like the white supremacist,
white supremacist will be the first people he joins up with in prison to be the bitch.
Because the blacks won't even want him.
No, no, no, guys, I'm on your side.
I'm an ally.
This cracker's talking about.
It's okay, guys.
I hate white people, too.
That's what he'll add, ironically.
White people are the worst.
Just switch over.
Can we all agree on it?
Guys, can I get a fucking, can I get like a three in chat if we all just hate white people?
I bet all of you are here unjustly.
Like, white people's heartbeats.
They must be stopped.
And then, peace and justice for our new empire.
In response, you get the instant gratification of knowing that Nazis hate you.
And oh, baby, that's priceless.
So alongside those being written out, the movie also introduces a bunch of...
Good pat on the back there, and you rise to Skywalker review.
Yeah, I know, right?
Like, I think we're finally getting there, though.
I think we're finally like, oh, baby, all my critics are hateful.
Oh, baby, that must be it.
That must be it.
Yeah, you know, so it's really hard on that.
And the puns are not interesting in the slightest.
Like, we meet Poe's friend that he used to know, who is a Power Ranger.
Don't tell me she's not a Power Ranger because she's a Power Ranger.
Joe, it's not that funny.
I'm sorry.
It's not that funny.
It was like, it was like, at the beginning.
And now you've repeated it.
I think the joke would work if it was joke moving on.
And so we can go, but instead, he was like,
gotta make sure you guys heard my joke.
I'm gonna repeat it.
You're like, oh.
The more I say Power Ranger, the more likes I get.
It's a correlation.
But Nazis don't like these jokes or chuds.
Well, Nazis hate Power Rangers.
Imagine Nazi chuds, man.
That's where it's at the lowest.
No, I'll rephrase that.
They only like the white power.
Yeah, it's true.
It's the coolest one.
Yeah, I did it.
And this Power Ranger is not an interesting character,
but they spend a lot of time.
Well, you just hate women.
You just, no, no, you just hate women.
You just hate women.
I'm gonna take a crazy route here.
Here I go.
I thought she was interesting.
Well, yeah, she's all right.
She couldn't have been.
I think the very, very short amount of time she was on screen.
I was like, okay.
So she's like this gang leader spice runner outfit
that stays under the radar of the Empire on this planet
while also trying to make a living, I guess.
And she's seems pretty ruthless.
I didn't like the whole like, gets beaten up by person.
She's trying to take the ransom off and then goes,
I like you.
Yeah.
Okay.
I wanted to ask, did she show up in part seven or eight?
No, she's brand new.
Totally new.
I thought so.
That was all of her screen time was in that film.
And yeah, like I'm not, you know, being genuinely honest.
This is my honest take.
I think he hates it because she's a woman.
Like, can we really explain it in any other way?
Is there actually another I can't think so.
I think she was an amazing character.
If anything, a main character.
I hope that she gets her own series.
Yes.
I hope that we get a story blisses.
And conversely, I hope Quentin gets help because he's clearly unable
to appreciate female characters.
And that's that's a shame because I'm kind of a Nazi.
If I'm going to be honest, going to place two facts on the table
for you guys.
Okay.
He hates this film.
This film was a female protagonist.
Oh, well, if that's not a that's proof right there.
And if anyone knows putting it's Quentin correlation is causation in this.
Yes, like that's what they that's what Einstein said, right?
Got him.
The correlation is the causation.
Go get him Twitter.
We're supposed to be excited whenever she shows up on screen.
And this is especially not interesting under the context of remembering
that these are supposed to be scenes with Rose.
What did he say exactly?
He's saying that every time we see her, it's supposed to have been Rose.
That's why he's upset.
I will play that again.
I will play that again.
This character is not an interesting character, but they spend a lot of time developing her
and we're supposed to be excited whenever she shows up on screen.
This is especially not interesting under the context of remembering
that these are supposed to be scenes with Rose.
These aren't supposed to be.
What do you mean?
You're all made so that Rose wouldn't have to be.
Yeah, every time I see Rose on character, I feel like you could just
swap her out with Danny DeVito and like nothing would be lost.
Like I just see this short frumpy, chubby little short person
occasionally just being like, I captain.
And it's like, what are we gaining from you like being here with us?
It's like, who the fuck are you?
Why are you here?
We just let it start last.
I guess we know anyone.
I just like, imagine being friends with him and you're like,
yeah, the weird force healing thing.
So we're like, yeah, yeah.
Oh, this, this thing, this thing.
And he goes, yeah.
All those scenes with Zori Bliss when they were supposed to be roses
and she took them from her.
And you're like,
Well, listen, Quentin, Kelly is not going to fuck you, dude.
Like, I don't like.
He wants to clap those Asian cheeks, man.
Yeah.
Not hers.
Oh my God.
Quentin does.
I don't know.
He's got a sex doll rags.
He's taken it from any location.
I don't know.
Yeah, boy.
He's taken it from any location.
In that sentence, a free will opportunity boner.
Film also introduces a woman named genre who helps
toward the main characters around so they can find the Horcrux.
I mean, Holocron, I mean, the the set thing, the set thing.
That was a joke.
Was he trying to be funny?
Yeah.
Oh, my.
No.
Horcrux says those are from Harry Potter, right?
I was going to say, like, if it was a mistake,
you would have just edited it right.
So that was a joke.
No, but the delivery is so bad, though.
Like, you could have made it in a funny way.
If he would have just said Horcruxes and kept going, it would have been funnier.
I agree with that.
Yeah, yeah.
So introduces a woman named genre who helps toward the main characters around
so they can find the Horcrux.
I mean, Holocron, I mean, the set thing, the set thing.
A lot of people have argued that genre exists exclusively to replace Rose
because JJ just didn't want to put her in the movie.
And this is definitely true.
There's a lot of moments in the movie that could have just been Rose.
Definitely true.
Definitely true that a local of this distant planet could have been Rose.
How would it have been Rose?
Like, that would have...
No, this is where all the Asians are from, the Asian planet.
But she's...
Also, I have a very important question for our boy, E.R.
What do you think of Asian woman?
And would you hit, would you tap Asian woman?
Asian Star Wars woman?
Question mark?
You have to add another question.
I agree.
Moving on.
Fucking xenophobe.
Yeah, I was going to say, like, is it a coincidence
that he remains silent on that question?
I don't think so.
Yeah, a little suspicious.
I'm just saying.
At one point, he doesn't want to say no, because he doesn't want to, you know,
there might be a lot of Asian ladies who are interested who are listening right now.
And he doesn't want to stay on the market, you know?
Strategic.
It's like Quentin is shitting on every attractive...
These chicks wouldn't come near my dick
if it was made out of chocolate.
He licked the chocolate off of his dick years.
Oh, God.
Oh, no.
I don't know why, but when you said that,
I just got, like, a terrible image of Quentin with, like,
chocolate on his nipples, just, like, rubbing it in, like, looking right in the corner.
Oh, no.
I know what that says about me, but I just wanted to make you all uncomfortable
with what my subconscious did to me.
I shouldn't have said a goddamn thing.
Now I'm thinking about Dick Chocolate, Quentin.
I'm thinking about him with his big chocolate.
Dick Chocolate sounds like a character name, like a really bad one.
Dick Chocolate.
And he looks disgusted with that right now.
Every moment that Zuri Bliss was on the screen was a moment that Dick Chocolate...
If this were a meeting, you put it in another context.
You sound like a crazy person.
Like, hopefully, he would see that.
Like, if we were like, oh, I hated TLJ, every time we saw Rose Tico,
that could have been a scene for fucking...
Dexter Jetstick.
He's still alive.
He's still running his bar.
Oh, my God.
You're a crazy person, Quentin.
Does he realize how stupid the statement is that he said the person who lives specifically on the
planet with knowledge specifically for that planet should have been Rose.
I was going to say, it doesn't make sense that that would be Rose.
It would be weird.
Yeah, well, yeah.
It's like, what the fuck?
That she takes up.
But it's also, to me, an undeniable fact that Shana and her friends are introduced
because the filmmakers were too spineless to just use Ewoks.
What the fuck?
What?
It's not the same planet.
Spineless?
You spineless piece of shit.
Just use Ewoks?
As if black people in Ewoks are interchangeable.
What?
Oh, my God.
That is fucked up.
Oh, my God.
Quentin thinks that black people in Ewoks are interchangeable.
Picture you're like, you see the black person's like, what about Ewok?
Oh, my God.
Quentin.
Quentin reviews.
Jesus.
He's become against the sword of the straw.
See, this is what I hate the most.
It's so insidious.
The way he hides his subtle bigotry in between these lines.
Disgusting.
Wouldn't you agree, Rags?
This subtle bigotry is just disgusting.
This is insane.
I can't believe it.
I have a dog whistle.
Oh, absolutely a dog.
I've got...
There are Chuds in the chat who are getting erect, I think.
Chuds in the chat.
Yeah.
Wait, wait.
Also, wasn't he against nostalgia?
And why now is he like, where do Ewoks at?
It's like, what's up?
What's up?
It's a girl.
It's a girl.
Where do Ewoks at, man?
Where do Ewoks at?
Most probably his decision was to refuse pogs at Ewok.
Instead using black people.
Black people, Ewoks.
Basically the same thing.
Oh, my God.
Quentin, that's terrible.
How could you?
Yeah, Quentin, phrasing.
From the Chuds, but from you.
Oh, my God.
See, this movie was great because it pisses off Nazis like Quentin reviews.
Because we're very mad right now.
We're definitely not laughing.
That she takes up.
But it's also, to me, an undeniable fact that Shana and her friends are introduced
because the filmmakers were too spineless to just use Ewoks.
I want to mention that the...
Wait, notice that the Ewoks have nigger lips.
Run that back, run that back.
They got the nigger lips.
Oh, my God.
They're living in huts in the woods.
Oh, my God.
No, Quentin, no.
This isn't what you were supposed to say.
Quentin, edit it out.
Edit it out, dude.
Oh, my goodness, Quentin.
That's a terrible thing for you to say.
Oh, my goodness.
And I was about to say...
Go ahead.
I was just going to say, Jay Long, on behalf of all black people,
I really take on the range that you're used to.
I would appreciate if you would never say that around me again.
Thank you.
Yes, Chase is the blackest of names.
Yeah, I'm like a 16th black.
So if you could stop that, like, I'll talk to Twitter
and I'll fucking have him do some shit.
So thanks.
He was bitching earlier in this video about how the videos...
About how these movies were just copies of the old ones.
And he's wanting Ewoks in the third installment of this one.
I'm like, what do you want, Quentin?
It's just episode six, but bigger-er.
Just an amalgamation of all the opinions he read on Twitter.
Yeah, it's like, come on, man.
That's why he turned into a terrible, horrible racist.
Because there's not a principle behind anything that's being said.
Speaking of The Office, because I've been watching it recently.
Oh my god, Quentin, no!
Oh no, Quentin!
Quentin, stop.
It's supposed to be like this.
Oh no.
This is beautiful and horrifying at the same time.
Yes, give it a second.
It's like a fever dream in real life, in real time.
I don't like to platform Nazis, but I guess we will continue with this video.
I'm so sorry for all parties offended by his rhetoric.
Oh, no.
Disgusting rhetoric.
It's fucking deplorable.
It feels like a massive step backwards.
I know that's something a lot of you choose not to care about,
but it's something I feel like I have to bring out.
It feels really awkward how the film skirts around acknowledging or expanding
on the romantic pairings in the last two movies,
where the black male lead was matched with...
Black female leads.
And I know it's awkward to say it that bluntly,
but the only reason I'm doing that is because that was an element
of the last two movies that the films gained massive praise for,
because movies...
By people like you.
People don't...
Real people don't give a fucking shit.
No one gives a shit except you people.
You always call attention to it.
You act like it's a huge deal.
Normal people don't fucking care what color you are.
You just don't give a shit.
Wow, Rags said you people.
What's up, dude?
Again...
No, it's okay. I'm into whites.
Okay, good.
Like, again, that scenario where you're a friend of his
and you're talking and you're like,
you know, it was weird that you had sort of thin...
He had an interest in races about the whole boyfriend thing in TFA,
and then he hugs her like he's missed his long life friend at the end of TLJ.
And it's like, hmm.
Then you've got that Poe and her, when they first meet at TLJ,
they get a bit of a smirky thing going on.
You're like, oh, is the film trying to say
there might be something going on there?
I don't know.
Then you've got Rose kisses Finn.
That's never acknowledged.
And then you've got the whole like,
I need to tell you something, Ray, before I die.
And you're like, oh, what's going on there?
And then, but there's lots of these things,
you know, like, is there any, like, what's going on there?
Why did none of those things do anything?
Why would they have like weird snippets?
I don't know, just, and I'd like to ask Jay to that.
And then you've got him sitting there and he's like,
yeah, I'm the fact that Finn was black.
You're like, wait, what?
He's like, well, that changes all of it, doesn't it?
He's black and he's not getting poo and tag.
You're like, what the fuck are you talking about?
You don't want that poon.
You don't want that rose tea.
It's strictly from a story perspective.
You're just like, it's kind of weird
that you have these little, little stakes of the story
where things are happening.
I'm safe.
I'm saving what I love for marriage.
He's such a, like, in the mind of people like this,
like, how do you even watch movies?
Is it possible?
You just see the colors, you know?
Specifically, like, there is black character.
Will black character be with Asian character?
I don't know.
Tune in next week to see fate of black character.
Also buy a black character action figure.
Now with one of my similar black.
Will they make a nice steaming hot plate
of ching chong chitlins?
Oh my god.
Oh my god.
Probably not.
You can't be associated with this racist person.
Oh my god.
I mean, Quentin reviews?
I mean, he's not usually this racist.
Quentin is, oh, Quentin is off the charts.
He really let it go in this video.
He was like, you know what?
Enough is enough.
This is, yeah, this is why you got to catch it early.
The white supremacists are, he said they hate him,
but I don't know.
I think they get along really well.
That up to that point.
And it deserves that praise.
And it feels weird that the film is just like,
yeah, we would prefer you figure it out.
Oh my god.
Also, there's a moment towards the end of the film
where two female resistance members kiss.
This is the first onscreen gay moment in a Star Wars film.
This was heavily advertised.
And I feel like the filmmakers expect praise for this,
but they do not deserve it.
How come they deserve praise for one LGBT
number alphabet people thing, but not the other?
Like, don't they get praise for that?
Or do they not?
We'll see.
What do they get praise for?
What are the rules?
I hope you'll tell us the rules.
Well, yeah, let's see what his take is first, I guess.
Slightest.
I feel the same way about this that I did the gay character
in the end game whose gayness was limited to the extent
that it could be removed in foreign dubs.
Dear filmmakers of Hollywood, you will get praise
for representation when you introduce queer characters
who aren't so intentionally minor.
But that's how sexuality should kind of be.
Unless your story is specifically about their relationship
with men or women or whatever.
It's like my sexuality is not in any way like a defining
characteristic of who I am.
What some people have said is if they had made
Finn and Poe gay and that came up in the movie at certain
points or whatever, that would have been okay because,
or celebratory because you can't cut that out
of a theoretical release in a place that hates gay people.
And that's, I think, what he's getting at.
He's like, you need to commit instead of being cowardly
about it.
I'm just at the point where I'm like.
I agree to a degree.
Like it's super spineless for groups like Blizzard
and Disney to be like, oh yeah, we're super inclusive
and we love the gays and stuff like that.
Except in China where we're not going to make as much money
if we actually commit to the things that we said.
So let's just say at the beginning of The Rise of Skywalker,
they get out of their dangerous situation.
And then they almost partially bait the race.
Still might be interested in Finn,
but then they have Finn be like, I'm so glad we made it
and he hugs Poe.
And then they actually kiss.
I would just be like, wow, I don't even know you guys
fucking knew each other.
It's got nothing to do with them being gay.
I'd just be like, these characters just don't know
each other well enough for anyone to be
romantically involved in that TIE fighter.
And I live somehow.
I just couldn't get you out of my mind.
And so I wanted me a big black stormtrooper hero
to whisk me away.
And so the whole like, the gay isn't implemented
well enough in this film.
I just be like, I don't think there was room
for any relationships, even if it was Rey and Finn.
I'd be like, that's still, so I'm just like, what?
I got to invest, but in Rey and Finn,
they haven't seen each other properly since the first one.
Yeah, y'all were too busy chasing daggers.
And that's, well, as you highlighted,
it looks like we're dealing with a story that just
doesn't have room for the romantic portion
of the human experience.
It's dealing with other things, I'm afraid.
And so it's like, you pieces of shit,
not having an overt lesbian or gay kiss.
I should be like, I'm...
We ain't got time for that.
Ain't nobody got time for that.
And I fell the same way about the one they showed.
I was like, who the fuck are they?
Like, I guess the rebels and they're happy.
Yeah, all right.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, I would be happy, I guess, if I was a rebel.
And then the fact that they cut it out of other visions
to make sure they don't piss a bunch of people off.
It's like, wow, that is pretty cowardly.
Standing in brave.
Enjoy your corporate alphabet people moment.
There are characters who aren't so intentionally minor
that they can be edited out for foreign audiences.
The bare minimum is never something that...
Call the Chinese racist, do it, Quentin.
You know you want to call the Chinese racist.
Call the Chinese bigots.
Do it.
You won't because the Chinese are Asian.
And they don't, they're good, you like them.
Yeah, I know you won't do it, but you know it's true.
Because they fucking are.
But, oh, I want you to say it.
It's like that would be Rags monthly thrust.
That's what he needs.
That would be my...
I just want to hear Quentin admit that the Chinese
are fucking bigoted and racist to shit.
This implies that it should be normalized for Hollywood
to constantly tote the will of bigoted nations overseas.
Oh, he didn't say the Chinese.
He didn't say the Chinese.
He said bigoted nations.
That's something, right?
That's a that's a half thrust.
We're getting there.
We're getting there.
Half, half massed.
Rags is half massed, half massed.
To respond to like fandom nitpicks about moments
in The Last Jedi that were really prevalent
in like the six months after it came out,
but have sort of faded now.
Right.
And I can certainly say that.
That's because we've accepted them.
It's old news.
Oh, and Plague Creation said I saw that as a celebratory kiss,
not a lesbian kiss.
Um, oh, yeah, I did too.
I was just like, oh, there's the whole like,
I'd seen the marketing thing that apparently
there was supposed to be an LGBT moment in the film.
But I remember being like, okay.
Oh, is that it?
And that's the thing toward the end of the film.
I was like, where was that moment then?
And then I saw those two kiss.
I was like, oh, okay.
Right at the end.
That was it, I guess.
Snuck it in right at the end there.
Just just two gals kissing.
Just dab a little victory smooch.
And so, but this is the thing.
It's being discussed as a this was supposed to be the
progressive moment of the film, I guess.
But it's just like, I don't know that that's it.
The whole situation is bizarre.
Like, why wouldn't if JJ was so obsessed with it,
you would have thought you would have a just a gay character.
But then again, I don't know if there's everything's a mess
in terms of this storyline.
Like, if you can't imagine not being obsessed about race and gender,
that's their life.
That's the universe to them.
It's race and gender.
Oh, and sexuality, of course.
These are the most important things or 20 years.
People won't care about those moments.
So it's you don't care about them now.
You are.
You people are the ones who care about them.
Normal people don't give a shit.
You're the ones who were kept who keep obsessing about it.
They're like, yeah, lesbians kiss lesbians.
That's what they do weirdo.
No one cares.
If anything, guys love lesbians kissing.
Hmm.
This is where this whole conversation is just odd.
I'm like, why is why is stowals?
Is it just because it's mainstream?
Like, it's a big movie.
That's it.
Yeah, I guess.
So it's going to be weird to try and explain, like, certain aspects of
you're not going to have children to like, sit down and be like,
yeah, a bunch of people on Reddit got mad.
They monopolized the conversation.
Then people started making 48 hours.
They're going to be like, oh, man, quit rambling again.
Fucking understand.
I'm not your son, sir.
Sir, this is like,
there's a crazy old man on the park bench out there talking to me about
Star Wars movies, whatever Star Wars is.
Those Nazi chuds on Reddit, they ruined everything.
God damn it.
Did you take your pills, Mr.
Quinton?
My name is not Mr.
Quinton, but that's what everybody calls him.
Exclusively to appeal to those people and those people also hated it.
Maybe when I show Star Wars to my kids, I'll be like, yeah,
the weird thing about the trilogy is it's just two movies.
Isn't that strange?
I don't know why they called it a trilogy.
So here's a question.
Yeah, but Google will probably be a thing.
And well, you know, oh, man.
Also, why would you have any emotion?
If you're going to go that far, just be like, yeah, the sequels don't exist.
Wouldn't you spare them that pain, Quinton?
Come on.
Question.
When episode nine finally reveals all of the secrets inside these mystery boxes,
are any of these reveals satisfying to anyone?
Were you guys really that gratified to finally see the Knights of Ren, like this group?
No, TLJ killed all of it.
TLJ killed all of it.
All of the interests I had, TLJ fucking massacred it.
I was like, if there could be any, like, development or explanation of any of the
elements that were mysterious about TFA.
I was out by the end of TLJ.
I was like, well, it's all a joke now.
None of it would actually have anything in terms of substance behind it.
So rip.
I'm going to quote Rich Evans.
TLJ was a huge waste of time because it really, it really should have built up
elements that could have led to the third movie.
And it could, JJ refused to use what could have been used in the second movie, I guess.
I don't understand why he can't see that the problem with why Rise of Skywalker is
as damaged as it is.
It's because of the second movie.
It's like he's trying to have his cake and eat it too.
It's like, dude, Rise of Skywalker was so damaged by the second movie.
So apparently he said some about 48 hour reviews at one point.
We went over and I'm offended.
We do 12 hour reviews.
That's you, bro.
Yes.
12 hour review.
Get it right.
Fucking hell.
That's you, bro.
He's mad that when we do these videos, these videos that have minimal editing,
like them and enjoy them.
Hey, man.
When he makes videos with pictures up on the screen, how could you?
Yeah, I zoomed into them.
Yeah, that's true.
He sure did.
Racks.
So we can see more of his face.
I'd like to think we're funny.
That's why this is entertaining.
No.
Oh, no, no.
We're evil racists.
We're pandering.
The only reason we're making money is because we're getting that white supremacist dollar.
Look at those.
Look at those super chuds in the.
That must be the only reason.
I mean, the most virtuous Quinton reviews.
He's not making as much or fucking something.
He's bitching about his money and it's obviously the white supremacist.
Yeah, he did highlight that he lost his he lost a portion of income
because he stood against Nazism.
How about you guys have the courage to do that?
That's what I welcome.
I would I welcome the ability for me to grow rich as white supremacists get poorer.
Well, that's racist.
Probably.
All right.
Yeah, it's probably.
Yeah, I mean, I'm going to give my money back.
That'll show him in all black standing around doing nothing
like they're trying to audition for Organization 13.
Did Ray finding out who her grandfather is really cause her to do anything
other than go on an arc she already did in the last film?
Did we gain some the idea that yeah, I agree.
You got palpitism being her grandfather.
And what we saw in the film was like the only result of it.
It's like, no, I could have done all kinds of things.
They didn't really do it.
It would have been a real, a real existential moment for for Ray.
He really could have been bothered by that in a very personal, meaningful way.
But she's Ray and she's just the best hate mongers of the toxic church.
Emotions mean nothing to our goddess.
It's my damn, my damn Ray.
Something by learning that Snoke was a clone created by Palpatine.
What was the thing that we gained?
Okay, so claiming that.
Okay, so we should have had a satisfying explanation for why Snoke was.
I was going to say, like, why do you think we wanted that?
Because I'm assuming he's addressing the people who like were gunning for a Snoke explanation.
That's not an explanation on its own.
He was created in a lab.
You're like, right.
So I've got a few more thousand questions.
It's like, nope, that's it.
That's like nothing.
By who? For what reason?
And how would you make something that powerful from a fucking test tube?
Why didn't you make more of them?
If that's the case, why did you not?
Why are you not creating a army?
A billion Snokes and put them into your million Death Star Star destroyers
and just send them out there.
You've basically dominated the universe.
This is weird.
It is very weird.
And this is the thing, we didn't get like the idea that it's like,
what did you even gain by that having that explanation?
Like, well, it wasn't really an explanation.
Yeah, it was a shitty attempt at an explanation.
Our wanting an explanation wasn't the issue.
It's the fact that we got a crappy one that makes like no sense.
Yeah, it raises more questions.
Also, I don't think that episode nine is like episode six, but bigger.
I think it's episode five and six in one movie.
And it doesn't make sense because they.
I mean, the whole chasing multiple McGuffins thing.
I don't think Star Wars has done that before.
No, I mean, it broke new ground.
Like, I think it's a good thing.
Yeah, yeah.
It's more like there was this reveal that race of Palpatine, Palpatine, right?
And I think that could have been like this first movie.
And now she resolves that with the more empire and return,
but they tried to cram it in one movie.
They definitely like it was a bad.
It's so bad.
It felt it definitely felt like this is what all the pacing comments have been about.
It's just it was just breakneck speeds of next thing, next thing, next thing.
It's just like, whoa, I got something for you.
I got a friend.
Who just did this?
My dog reacts to giant cockroach user XB TFR.
Which one is that?
Because I'm I'm I'm oh, well.
Wait, I mean, anything to escape.
That's basically this stream is a dog reacting to a giant cockroach.
So it seems fairly accurate, I suppose.
You see, it's a metaphor.
We are the dog reacting to the cockroach of Quentin reviews.
Remember when we ran Spies together?
Oh, is this I think is everyone at the right place?
I guess we are.
It's all black standing around.
A twenty to thirty eight.
They're trying to audition for organization.
Thirteen.
What's organizations?
I think it's a Kingdom Hearts joke.
I think I think I wouldn't know.
Because I'm not a nerd.
I got to be racist, bro.
Nerds are nerd is a racist.
Yeah, we are the most prejudiced race on the planet.
Cameras rise up.
Gamers rise up.
Nega that quality.
That is a good one.
Quentin thinking that he walks and black people are interchangeable.
I'm telling you, man, we've seen a lot of spicy ass fucking takes.
But man, that's that's one of the best.
Just I don't know what possessed you quits.
I don't know what it was.
That was great.
Finding out who her grandfather is really caused her to do anything other than go on an arc.
She already did in the last film.
Did we gain something by learning that Snoke was a clone created by Palpatine?
What was the thing that we can can I comment on one thing?
Like, I think we could have had a more.
What was race art in the second movie?
She discovered like rag said, right?
She discovered her parents and nobody in that she needs to choose her own destiny.
Like she did in the first film.
Like she did in the third film.
And in the third film, parents are bad.
Grandparents was a bad.
I got this.
It's all in my video.
The first one is it doesn't matter who your parents are because they're gone.
The second one is, no, your parents do matter, but they're nobodies.
So, hey, take that for what you will.
And then the third one's like, no, it's not that they don't matter.
And it's not that they're nobodies.
They do matter.
They are Palpatine.
Now you need to choose if you're going to follow the footsteps of Palpatine or not.
It's like, dude, this trilogy does not get along with itself.
It's like it's it's like a bunch.
It's like different people alternate alternated installments in the trilogy.
And they hated each other or something weird that I get that impression.
But yeah, by the end, the parents still didn't matter
because she didn't fucking acknowledge her lineage any goddamn way.
We didn't even like the idea that she was given a choice between Palpatine and Skywalker
is like, that never really happened.
It's not like we ever thought she was going to turn to the dark side.
They didn't.
They didn't try.
That was bullshit.
They had her doing some weird things like she kept walking off on her own
and she had that moment of lightning.
And she saw a dark ray with Bilbo teeth.
And you're just like, why why any of this?
Hey, when she fucking zapped Chewie.
What is shit?
It was really funny.
And I don't think they wanted it to be that way, but it was like, what the fuck?
It's weird that they had Chewie getting zapped by Ray when that could be a moment
where Rose Tico is in it.
I mean.
She could have done her magic samurai power.
God, that's true.
Okay, so claiming that this movie is just episode six, but bigger as a little inaccurate
because it ignores.
Has anyone said that actually does finally get saying it right.
Free backstory.
After her birth, Palpatine discovered Ray's existence and for saw that she could.
Fuck you.
Well, how does it like the horror cruxes, we got the Harry Potter music, like read another book.
Holy shit.
No reaction was foreshadowing.
Unironically, though, the story that JJ was trying to explain was the Palpatine wanted
her to becomes his successor, not his own kid, because his own kids was like, no, I
want to be a good tism.
And he was like, okay, fine, I'll take your grandchild.
And then she was like, no, I'm running.
No, I'm running.
We're running away.
Who?
And then he was like, that's who I'm sending.
Dr.
She after you.
Dr.
She's like, motherfucker.
I'm stabbing my knife.
And then they're like, okay, we'll sell our daughter to a car plot.
Because that's the best decision.
Yeah.
It's like, hey, we're going to sell you and we can go.
We sold it for drinking, buddy.
It's like, wait, Kylo, you said you did lie.
Was that just, I think we talked about the stream.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you're thinking I'm going to sell the kid anyway.
So why not get some drinking, buddy?
I mean, where's the loss?
Yeah.
And then Uchi killed him anyway.
Damn.
Damn.
Indeed.
Oh, wait.
Wait, this.
It's a good you need to rejoin because you're my exact enough.
Okay, wait, wait.
I don't think that's a rejoin thing.
That's more of a because he's he doesn't sound tismy.
He just sounds like he's disconnecting it.
Like we need to go to Singapore maybe.
Wait, I'll try something like these.
I'm going to take us to Singapore anyway.
Do do do do do.
Is it better now?
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Is it better?
No.
Oh, it's to be.
Oh, it's better for me.
Singapore.
I'm connected to Singapore.
Exactly.
We're helping you.
I have a thank you, Singapore.
Wait, this this this the Uchi know how to get to Exegul.
Yes, because apparently he was sent from Exegul.
Right.
I think it was my property.
Right.
I mean, he must know how to get to Exegul because he's got a knife that he can translate that
takes him to a key that can get you to Exegul.
Right.
Is it like that?
Maybe Ochi couldn't read.
Sif.
Oh, no.
Yeah, but no, but which would be weird.
But fuck it.
Who knows?
So one of Ray's parents is Palpatine's kid, right?
Why doesn't he just use the parent to become super, super powerful?
And because they're just nobodies, I guess.
Yeah.
How does how does Ray's not Palpatine's daughter slash son get defeated by a man with a knife
when they have force powers?
Unless the force.
He was drunk.
After all, he was drunk, smaller drinking.
He drank the body.
He was too drunk to fight against Ochi, but her parents protected her.
And for that, they were killed, too.
It's not a Harry Potter thing.
Are you are you so retarded?
You think Harry Potter came up with that shit like parents dying to save their child?
Like, yeah, JK Rowling came up with that astonishing act of bravery.
No rags, it's because it.
You mentioned earlier that you should read something other than Harry Potter, right?
And well, I mean, there was a there was a there was a art.
You got it.
Do you guys know the movie Quickly Down Under?
No, no.
There's a character in that whose arc in that film is basically this.
And that movie had, like, God, who's who's that quick?
Let's hear that.
That was 1990.
That was God, what's his fate?
Tom Selleck was in that.
Alan Rickman was in that.
He was the bad guy in Quickly Down Under.
What a great film.
I love that.
Well, the point is that one of the characters, their arc was basically like the idea
that she would put herself in a risk to save like a child figure.
It's great, but go watch it.
It just showed up.
If no one knows the film, though, then it doesn't really count because I have to sit here explaining it.
Alan Rickman.
The point is, if he's broad enough, he can make it sound like this film completely rips off Harry Potter,
even though there's so many details to that that are so disingenuous.
But, hey, it makes for he gets to zoom in on his face slowly destroyed.
But for years before this, he had planned for contingencies in case this did occur.
And so in the years after his death, his secret followers gathered the materials to resurrect him.
This is fucking Harry Potter.
No, it isn't.
You're a fucking stupid.
You're an idiot.
It's the only book that you've ever read that's like all of your fucking buddies.
The only goddamn book you people have ever read and can reference is Harry fucking Potter.
Does he think it's a Horcrux?
Is that what he's about to say?
He he he was deliberately broad.
This is retarded.
Like, I'm sorry, Quentin.
You know, this is retarded.
Gather the materials to resurrect is like, no, he's just on a life support machine.
Yeah, that's not the same as Horcruxes at all.
Wait, I made I typed some notes when I was in the when I was in the film.
And and all they say about Palpatine being alive, somehow Palpatine is alive.
That's all they say about that.
Yeah, he's like, yeah, yeah.
And the wayfinders, you cannot compare them to Horcruxes whatsoever.
Yes, there's no connection.
Oh, they're an item of interest.
Oh, OK.
If you have an item of interest, you're like Harry Potter.
So that works now.
You know, the ring fucking Harry Potter rip off of Horcrux?
Because the ring is a rip off of Lord of the Rings.
Lord of the Rings is a rip off of Harry Potter, though.
Came way after.
That's why the alternative title of the ring was the Ring Queen.
Wait, does he explain his analogy as to why this is Harry?
No, I think he will.
I don't know, but he's already made his point, right?
He thinks he's made his point.
That is the main plot to the Harry Potter film.
No, it's not.
What's wrong with you?
Like having a stroke over not a real thing.
This is like when Jenny Nichols just started piecing together
like her own lore for Joker about like medication.
And he started fucking spiraling down her own train of logic.
And you're like, no.
Is this film trying to say you shouldn't take medication?
It's OK, Jimmy.
It's OK.
Oh, God.
Quinton's eyes are completely dead.
Do yes.
That's like a fish like cold.
It sounds like he has some emotion here.
Yeah, he's he's getting this passion.
Yeah, he's getting worked up.
Franchise, are you trying to come into my house
and superglue your broken ass franchise together with a more broken ass friend?
Is this supposed to be funny?
I'm sorry.
Most well, we're also like that he has the shitty acoustics.
So it sounds like he's just fucking ranting in like the in like the movie theater house.
Fucking toilet.
Just a closet.
Oh, like this is that this all takes place in a stall.
Like it like the handicap stall.
It's extra big.
He had to bring this stuff inside.
Then everyone's going to end up flushing of other people.
Well, you need to know about this movie.
Oh, yeah, Carrie Fisher's in it.
And it's bad.
So what JJ Abrams ended up doing was he took deleted scenes from The Force Awakens
and he cut Carrie Fisher's head off and gimp and he pasted it over a body double.
So every moment with her in this movie is written around unused dialogue.
Scenes in episode seven that were too boring to put in.
It never once feels like Carrie Fisher is actually there.
It feels like I agree.
It's these out of context clips being edited into these terrible scenes written around the
clips with no good pacing as the actors stare at the face of a woman who is not Carrie Fisher
and pretend that they are talking to their dead friend.
It might be insensitive to put it this way, but the performance.
You think he walks you're capable with black people.
We've passed that point a long time ago, Quentin.
That pun was the funniest he's been.
I was about to say, he just said it may be insensitive to put it this way,
but the performance was lifeless.
Also, did any of you guys laugh?
Did any of you guys laugh when Ray got all of the, you know, the Jedi powers and resurrected
herself and then Leia's body just fucking collapsed in the sheets and and wrinkle McTits
just kind of nodded approvingly.
Well, I didn't know what to stand.
I was like, wait, she could only disappear.
Is she like a poltergeist right now?
Like her business needs to be done.
Just like a magician, like a post-mortem magician.
I'm free.
Finally, I can go have a moment with Luke and my fucking husband.
Ex-husband, a strange husband, deadbeat dad.
I don't know.
I don't even, we don't even know if Hans a force ghost or not.
He's a memery, obviously.
He is a memery.
It's creepy and uncomfortable, and it made me uneasy.
Of course, the only thing he was uncomfortable with was with a woman.
Okay, Quentin.
Of course, it's just like Quentin.
This leaves the scene where Leia eventually looks kind of vaguely sad and she wanders off,
and the Ma's character from episode seven turns to a random person and goes like,
Leia's about to use up the last of her energy to save her son.
She only gets her son killed.
That's the story for another time.
That's a good point, though.
That's a good point, though.
Oh, well, no, yeah, he's right.
It's really awkward exposition.
It's like, who the fuck asked you, orange midget?
And how does she know also?
Yeah, it's like...
Ma's, you're literally here as a diversity hire for Disney.
I just need you to understand this.
Such an interesting character.
And we need more rotten oranges.
Fascinating.
How do you know that?
And then Leia's body double dies in a bed and all the characters get sad.
This triggers Kylo Ren to reevaluate all the choices.
There weren't choices so much as he was clearly tricked, though, and he takes this just fine.
Also, this is not the first time that he has reevaluated his position in the will.
He does it a lot.
Like in free movies.
I feel like if he survived this movie that he would have, like, in a year's time been like,
you know, Darkseid isn't so bad.
And everyone's like, Kylo, like, seriously, dude.
Carlos.
At this moment, he allows Ben Solo to be reborn and Kylo Ren-
Is that what he allows?
I guess you could put it that way.
I don't really know.
They treat that throughout the films.
They do treat it as though they're two different characters inhabiting the same body.
And what they really mean is that it's Ben Solo the whole time,
and he's just choosing whether or not he wants to be an asshole.
That's it.
Man, I bet the war crimes tribunal is going to love that defense.
The rebellion and ring figure of what Palpatine is,
they all arrive to try and fight-
The Republic is useless anyways, they probably won't care.
And then Palpatine opens the ceiling of his cave to show Rey,
all of her friends almost dying at the hands of the final order.
And he says, you have to kill me, strike me down, become a Sith, take my throne.
And this is clearly supposed to be-
Then she should immediately do it and say, call off the attack.
I was going to say, you can call it like a ripoff or whatever of episode six,
but it's weirder because he explains it mechanically like it happens this way.
You kill me, I get to inhabit your body.
It's like, oh.
Yeah, these are the rules.
I guess.
And if the rules work like that and always have worked like that,
then why is it the Palpatine didn't jump into Attica or Luke
when he was thrown down the fucking hole?
I guess because he didn't die.
He was still in his body, floating in space, like.
He's like, damn it, I would have thought that killed me.
I clearly miscalculated my own fucking constitution.
There was this tweet that said, of Emperor.
She says, kill me and you'll absorb my power.
Then she kills him and then later on the movie, nothing happens.
I like the theory that it's Palpatine actually went into a body
and then she's just like Luke Caesar.
And then she like looks at him evilly and has like evil eyes.
And he's like, oh, fuck, like we can't.
Or if he's just if he's just a voice in her head for the rest of her life,
he's like, hey, what where are you going?
It's like, I'm going to be evil.
You son of a bitch.
Go and stab that guy over there.
Well, he's like, I feel like McDonald's.
She's like, she's like watching the newest episode of Mandalore
and he's like, do you want to like be evil, star an empire?
You're really boring, Ray.
You just sit here every day watching TV.
Oh, you would eventually just be nagging her.
He would eventually just be nagging her to like get different kinds of food.
He'd be like, I want chunky monkey tacos.
Yes, soft shell tacos.
Yes, I love them.
I taste everything.
I'd fucking love to see the entire series of Ray just possessed by him.
Every time you take it back, I can see you.
I've seen from episode six where Palpatine shows Luke,
his friends being massacred, and he says, you should try.
Oh, it's a good film.
It's good, good scenes, memories.
And get revenge on me and give him to the dark side of your emotions.
But Palpatine's appeal in this movie is an appeal to Ray's will willingness
to do good to save her friends.
So it's not so so it's missing the point of Palpatine entirely.
Like Ray killing Palpatine to save her friends would be exactly the same as Darth Vader
killing Palpatine to save his son.
I don't know how to explain this better.
Why does this matter?
It's only a sequel if you interpret it that way.
Yeah, don't think about it.
It's just lore stuff, Quentin.
Seriously, you need a countdown.
I love the fact that all of these fucking movie reviewers just sit in a room and just
talk shit like aimlessly off scripts.
And they're like, I wish I knew how to explain this better.
It's like, boy, there was a specific writing implement.
You can use the organized-
Only there was a strategy I could use to know-
A format to utilize.
...how I stay alive.
You know, the men of the cave would make markings on the walls with the paint.
You could try that.
He's like, no, that's too advanced for me.
Anyways, the point of the scene is you can't kill Hitler because that makes you Hitler.
But Hitler killed Hitler.
Yeah.
Did he stay Hitler after killing him?
Yeah, what happened then, Quentin?
Yeah.
We'll never know.
Hitler became Hitler but killing Hitler.
Hitler became Hitler.
Hitler and haven't hit the dead corpse of Hitler.
It's very-
But I was gonna sit, commit suicide.
Oh, don't even fucking go into it.
It's complicated.
It's really fucked up.
It makes my head hurt just thinking about it.
Just kill me already.
I'm trying to fight the emperor, but the emperor sucks the life force out of them
and uses this to regrow all the parts of his body and the emperor is born in this moment.
And I can't remember who made the joke.
It was like, did his penis grow back?
Was that full enough?
I don't know.
How weird would that have felt?
I need Kylo specifically for this part.
I have to suck off his penis.
I mean, because Palpatine got busy.
We know this now.
That's canon.
So I mean-
If I need to make another baby or something, I'm gonna need a penis.
He's like, that's just basic biological mechanics.
What do you want me to do?
Kylo, I need your penis.
Give it to me.
It's not like you're doing anything with it.
No, I just did a big video essay about Palpatine.
So I feel like I know how Palpatine should be written and-
Oh, don't jump to conclusions.
Yeah, you, Quentin.
You should have fucking written this whole movie.
Palpatine never reminds me of Palpatine in this movie.
He reminds me of Voldemort.
Of course he does.
Voldemort is the main actor.
Everything reminds you of Voldemort.
He acts like Voldemort.
He does Voldemort, he thinks.
That's what the film is.
So then Rey starts meditating and she asks all the Jedi of the past to speak to her.
And then we zoom into space and we hear a bunch of Jedi talk to her as a fanservicey moment.
We hear Anakin, which I think is JJ's way of still having Anakin involved in the defeat
of Palpatine, even if in a pathetically limited way.
Man, these takes being just one-to-one with-
He really cares about this lore, you know?
I didn't think about that.
Very upset, visibly.
And we hear all these voices from the cartoons, which is neat.
We also hear Ahsoka, which I feel like was a big selling point of this scene.
I don't personally agree with the diagnosis that Ahsoka is a Jedi or would have been a
Jedi at the time of her death.
Stuff like that feels like fanservice without substance,
and I feel like that's an important distinction.
Rey uses two lightsabers to reflect Palpatine's lightning back into his own face.
That's what happened.
That's pretty much what happens.
He blows his head off, and that's how he's defeated.
Rey dies, but then Ben uses the Force healing power from all the video games to heal her,
and then she comes back, and they make out in a big romantic moment,
and then he leans over and dies.
And I heard other people in the theater laughing at this,
so it wasn't just me that found this shit funny.
Because the moment that Ben Solo is redeemed, you know he has to die.
Because outside of some fan comics I read on Instagram when I pretend that no one is looking,
there is no future in the franchise where Kylo and Rey raise a family, and they have a son.
Why do people want that?
It's so weird.
Because fat, fucking 30-year-old women sit around with their drying up ovaries,
just fantasizing about fictional pairings.
Don't call me out like that, please.
You're not white, okay?
I'm clearly not talking about you.
Yeah, the people in my audience were like,
oh my god, it really hurt me.
You know how every time Red Letter Media uploads a video in this vein,
and they always have like the secret recording of Rich Evans
just giggling at stupid shit happening?
Yeah.
How happy would you be if you were at a movie theater?
I think they're in like Oklahoma Jersey, like I forget where they live.
Minnesota.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Oh yeah, yeah, Wisconsin.
How happy would you be if you went to a movie theater in Wisconsin and you just heard...
In the background, you're like, oh my god, is that B. Rich Evans?
Oh my god, it's Hollywood star Rich Evans.
Full mast.
I would search.
I'd be like, are you there?
Is this real?
Just peek around, turn on your flashlight.
And they have wholesome adventures.
Either he's dead or he's in jail.
It's those two options.
A lot of people have talked about how it's shitty
that Ray ends up having a romantic moment with this dude
who's been heinously manipulating her the whole movie,
but there's a whole other side of this scene
that I feel like no one is talking about that I really need to address.
It should have been gross.
In the end of it, in the prequels, Palpatine is Anakin's father, right?
In episode one, we're told that Anakin's mother, Shmi.
Shmi.
I just don't know.
But yeah, I'm pretty sure this is...
This is the...
I've seen a lot of people saying this, so...
Like, I haven't read the extended stuff to definitively explain the conservation.
That's a word now of Anakin, but I...
Conservation has always been a word.
I'm not saying it like that.
Conceivation.
Conception?
No.
Conceivation.
I prefer it.
Oh, that's fair enough.
So, I don't know the specifics, but yes.
I believe this is a contentious issue right now
because it's like that's gross.
That's some gross-tisms right there at Disney.
I've heard people say that apparently Disney have already put out
a comic or something that says that it was from Palpatine
that made Anakin to try and subvert the shit before it gets out of hand.
But hey.
Because the net kiss is incestuous.
Yeah, that would be really kind of weird.
Disney probably wouldn't get away from that, you know.
Disney are not huge proponents of incest, as far as I know.
I don't know for sure.
I have not looked at it.
Allegedly.
I don't know.
It depends.
Have you seen The Lion King?
I don't know how the Chinese feel about it.
Yeah, true.
Well, yeah.
Kiss him, but Nala's his sister.
But there was no father.
And this, coupled with the boy's abilities,
leads the Jedi to presume that he is the chosen one created by the Force.
Yes.
And that...
This is the thing about the whole, like, does it become genetic or is it DNA,
or just force particles?
Like, that Star Wars girl said that they imply it's definitely like...
It had Palpatine's DNA is definitely in there or whatever.
It's just like...
Pretty creepy.
Force to do good.
But in episode three, Palpatine tells Anakin about a figure named Darth Plagueis the Wise.
Plagueis?
Great life.
Plagueis, Plagueis.
Plagueis?
Plagueis?
And yeah, that's the thing, that it's actually him.
Or at least, I think that's what Disney said.
It's actually Darth Plagueis, not Palpatism.
So we're fine.
Who could use the Force to create life?
And he says that Plagueis had an apprentice who...
You know, I gotta admit, Quinn, you're talking a lot about lore,
for a guy who says the lore complaints are silly.
Very confused.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Is it...
It's kind of weird.
Kind of weird, you know.
Learn this power...
I feel like I can't get a bead on you.
...and he killed his mentor.
And everyone universally accepts that Palpatine is that apprentice,
and thus Palpatine have the power to...
I'm gonna make sure.
I'm actually concerned that the clips will probably get us
a hit on the livestream as well,
because the rules work differently for livestreaming versus videos.
You gotta be careful.
This is the subversive reveal that Anakin is not a Christ figure.
He's not the chosen one.
He's the...
I mean, I don't necessarily disagree with this.
I'm just posing him for the safety, that's all.
Before you just put the cover up, actually, that could work.
The Antichrist.
The Spawn of Satan.
And for a while, this was just a fan theory,
and one way that you could interpret these movies,
but the canon Darth Vader comics had a page which absolutely 100% revealed
that this is the only way to interpret these scenes in the prequels.
So Luke is already Palpatine's grandson,
and Kylo Ren is Palpatine's great-grandson.
Essentially, what I'm getting at is that by copying the original trilogy,
without understanding the content of the prequels,
JJ Abrams has accidentally reintroduced to Star Wars its most infamous theme.
Incest.
Leading up to The Rise of Skywalker, I believed it could be one of two things.
It could be an exploration of these characters that was a unique
stand-alone experience that you didn't need to see any other films to enjoy,
or it could be the identifying nature that combined all three trilogies into one,
all nine movies as one binge-able experience.
Maybe there would finally be an Anakin Forceco's cameo,
exploring Kylo's misguided belief that Vader would approve of his actions.
And how come Anakin never said that?
How come Anakin was like, no, that's not me, dude.
I ain't telling you that shit.
Anakin was just Palpatine.
He's back from the dead.
He's tricking you, dude.
Like, don't go down this dark path like I did.
It's just, this series, this trilogy really doesn't make any sense at all.
Some sort of cheesy over-the-top moment where you saw all three of the leads of the three trilogies
together, and they somehow helped each other defeat Palpatine for the final time.
When I heard all the negative reviews, I figured it ended up being the latter.
It was a film so obsessed with playing homage to eight previously existing films
that it really wasn't a standalone experience that you could enjoy
unless you were already a hardcore fan.
But it turns out that the film just decided to not choose,
and thus it fails exponentially at either option.
It does a bad job of exploring the arcs of Ben and Rey,
and it really doesn't do any sort of job of exploring any character-
How do you explain the audience score, then, Quentin?
You're gonna-
Yeah.
Gonna call bots.
86% of people loved it.
I mean, again, he's probably someone who thought the Russian bot thing was a real thing as well, so.
Oh, almost certainly he did.
So yeah, he probably does think it's being botted, actually.
He fucking hates Trump.
So.
Characters outside of that.
It literally forgets about whole scenes and introduces exploring those characters,
and most importantly, it seems to find its value exclusively through its comparisons
to pre-existing material in episodes four, five, and six.
It also potentially ruins the point of episodes one through six.
You can look at the Palpatine story elements in two different ways.
Either devalues his first defeat at the hands of Anakin,
and thus the entire arc of episodes one through six,
or it chooses to make its own story not important
in order to give that original arc more weight.
Either it-
How does it choose to make its own story not important?
How would you say that it does that?
It's contradictory,
or it sets itself up a premise that two things can't usually both
kind of simultaneously exist with the same meaning.
But it totally says the Palpatine was not defeated in the OT.
We defeated him, you know?
Like, we're the important ones.
We're the ones that actually put him in his grave.
And good thing we did because he wasn't, you know, the death star.
Yeah, pretty, pretty, pretty threatening, I guess.
But thousands of them, we took out the real threat.
Yep, we're the real heroes.
I don't know how you can interpret that as, like, they're saying, you know,
the one through six are the important ones.
It's like, hmm.
That kind of seems like one through six don't really matter all that much.
It ruins the very thing it's trying to play homage to,
or it tries not to matter in order to make that thing more important.
And if it does that, then it retcomes the entire sequel trilogy.
Rhett, guys, that's just fan stuff.
Well, he's clearly interpreting episodes seven and nine as sequels
to episodes one, two, three, four, five, six.
I don't know how he managed to fuck that up.
Yeah, what a weirdo.
Why would you do that?
A shitty spinoff novel series that you don't really need to read.
The worst thing about the Mystery Box format is that it staked the worth
of the entire trilogy on the finale.
And thus, because the finale turned out to be so disappointing and stupid,
it's going to be hard to go back and look at the first two movies
and try and find the same worth that we did before.
Is he referring to Force Awakens and TLJ?
Yeah, I think so.
Just skip him.
I don't even watch them either.
He loves TLJ too much.
I also disagree with his statement about the Mystery Box.
What, like that it's just a bad thing to do in general?
No, I mean, it's a bad thing to do in general,
but it's not just the Mystery Box's fault that the trilogy is bad.
I don't know that I...
I'm trying to think of an example of a...
The thing about the Mystery Box is that it's hard to remember
which ones were good, quote, unquote,
because that just means that we were explained what the mystery was
and it was satisfying, we moved on,
so we don't even associate it as a Mystery Box.
I'm trying to think of like,
what are examples of Mystery Boxes that did well?
No, it's more like, I think it's more of the ideas
that were in the Mystery Box could have been explained in...
Some other competent writer.
Yeah, I think some ideas could have been good.
Like, let's say, for instance,
like the twist was all along that Ray is a Palpatine, Palpatine, whatever.
If they built that up for...
For, like, I think that would have been an interesting mystery,
quote, unquote, like, that's what Ray was.
That's why she's powerful.
I think that would have been interesting,
but they didn't really plan that shit out, so...
Usual suspects.
That is a good example.
The whole premise of that film is that who did the...
Well, yeah, who done it are essentially Mystery Box films?
Like...
I guess what I'm getting at is, right,
if you refer to Snoke as a Mystery Box,
what you're saying is that we've been shown him,
but we don't know enough about him yet to figure out what is going on here,
what is the story here.
And I think that that's in a shit ton of stories,
just elements that don't get explained until later.
But maybe people are talking about the difference between a film
having Mystery Boxes and another film having to answer them
versus being in the same one.
Could be something.
Either way, I think you can do it well,
and I think a really good writer could have done something with TFA.
I think so too.
Like, I don't know if I'm ever going to feel like
watching The Force Awakens again,
because I feel like that movie is now defined by this movie,
and that's really depressing.
They're both depressing.
We're just on layers of depressing.
I think TLJ is probably the depressing one out of three.
It's a very, very...
Film.
Like, everything sucks.
But, um...
Um, sure.
They're all depressing.
Fine.
I'll give it to you.
That's...
That's The Rise of Skywalker.
Just a bad film.
It's probably not a great idea to make this video right now,
because this is the first time in like two years
where no one on the internet is mad at me.
Yeah.
Two years?
What do you mean?
Two years, man.
No one's...
Okay.
It was like...
You've kind of become a bit of a mean coincidence.
Yeah, the last stupid thing he said was probably like
a couple months ago at most.
What did he say then?
It's a victory.
Oh, I don't know.
It's hard to keep track.
You just have to just...
YouTube, Quinton is a fucking idiot,
and then you'll find like 10,000 videos that are like,
oh, this is...
I'm gaining subscribers at a normal rate.
And I don't know, maybe this video will kill that.
If it does, oh well.
I just want to say, if you like this movie,
that's okay.
I don't hate you for that.
And if you don't like the movie, like I do,
you should just not like the movie.
You shouldn't try and act revenge.
You shouldn't try and harass people
that do like the movie or people who are in the movie.
All right.
Okay.
You also shouldn't say that black people
are interchangeable with fucking Ewoks.
I just don't take...
I will admit.
Quinton, I appreciate you putting this
at the end of your video.
You know, guys, just because you dislike something
doesn't mean you should attack cast members.
If you do like something, that's cool.
People who dislike movies tend to just fucking harass people.
That's just...
They're demons.
Yeah, that's why you should like all things
so that you won't harass people, I guess.
So much better for your chi.
You should just have an opinion about a film.
I'm not going to make disliking this movie
a part of my personal brand.
I'm not going to start doing any of the pieces.
Of course not, because if you don't want to get
into a fight with those people,
because they'd fucking shred your ass.
I shred his ass on every topic anyway.
Of course you don't want to get into a fight
with these people.
We'll roast you.
You look like a fucking fool.
He's liking this movie a part of my personal brand.
This way, snipe it a distance.
And I'm not going to start doing hit pieces
on YouTubers who say that they do like it.
I'm not going to still be talking about this bullshit
in too many years.
You're literally talking about it, you fucking carrot.
Like, how did he not notice this?
He's like directly subtweeting you, Molly.
I was going to say, this may as well just have a title
above it being like, for the eFAB people,
this is my message to you.
You're hating on people.
You're bad.
You're bad, people.
All of you are terrible.
Here, guys, remember our brand being exclusively TLJ?
We have no Godzilla, Spider-Man, Captain Marvel,
Game of Thrones.
Just TLJ.
Just TLJ.
No more.
Fucking, and it's not just TLJ, it's hating on TLJ
to the point where we only cover people
to disagree with them and say their opinions of the evils.
We are the bad ones.
I'm sorry, Quentin.
But yeah, the eFAB brand, if you were to call it that,
it's just all media.
We've got no limits on here.
We'll even cover movies about Ewoks or, sorry,
black people, I mean, like the Black Panther,
like the Ewok movie.
It's the same.
Episode six, Roots, basically the same thing.
Yeah.
Episode six.
You're doing head pieces on YouTubers
who say that they do like it.
How is it a hit piece to just respond to your points?
I disagree with you.
That's a hit piece.
You fucking hit piece, maker.
I really hate this movie.
Oh, no, it's a hit piece.
Just to up it.
So, oh, imagine how upset he is right now.
We've just nearly completed our hit piece again.
Oh, yay.
I'm sorry.
You should have thought about it several times.
Oh, my God.
And isn't he the idiot who made like a fucking response
to someone else's review?
Well, so this is actually him saying that he's doing
like we're doing the hit piece on him.
He made a singular video that's supposed to be a parody of me.
It was the Citizen Kane one.
He took it down because nobody understood what the fuck
he was trying to achieve with that video.
It was really embarrassing.
Then you've got the video he made with TRO,
where it was a literal rags and ball of hit piece.
He lied about us.
He was absolutely lied about us.
It was like, damn, Quentin.
Like, this is, oh, this is like your defining moment
for so many people now.
How could you say this?
You're such a hypocrite.
Because I'm totally cool with people being like,
hey, you fucked up when you said this, this, this.
Oh, okay.
But he was like, rags things.
There's no objective value to a movie if it sells a toy.
It's like, what the fuck?
I'm like, what?
I was like, when did I say that?
That doesn't sound like a thing that I'd say.
Oh, my god.
Like, if you found out that was a quote from rags,
any of you, you just be like, that doesn't sound real.
He's like, that's no.
He was obviously joking.
He was obviously using the sarcasm as he does.
It's fascinating, man.
And like, the idea that he doesn't regularly just fucking
rail against the opinions of people he doesn't fucking like.
But no, he's holier than thou.
We're the ones who do it.
He's the Goodman.
Disliking this movie, a part of my personal brand,
I'm not going to start doing hit pieces on YouTubers who say that they do.
You wouldn't be very good at it.
We've already proved that anyway.
Your brand would be poo poo.
Like, I'm not going to still be talking about this bullshit in two or three years.
I'm just going to move on with my life.
You clearly didn't, though.
I have better things to do.
He says with a sex doll in the background.
I'm going to go back to my life.
I think, well, no, wait.
I think he did.
What's that guy?
Patrick Willems.
Like, he he said that that's the meaning of his like message.
Like the space children thing.
He wasn't going to obsess.
It kind of reminds me of what Patrick Willems said about Star Wars.
His joke.
Patrick Willems quote will follow him to his grave.
It's just a guy who has it printed out.
He's like, Patrick, what about this?
I need you to acknowledge.
He has a picture of it.
People don't even have to say anything.
It's it's a text image.
That's just a screenshot of him.
Like you did this, Patrick.
This is you.
You did this.
You have no one to blame but yourself.
What were you fucking thinking?
And he calls people idiots for misunderstanding his point.
It's like, I'm sorry.
We took what you said to mean what it was.
Just the words what they meant are bad.
Quinton's outro here.
He may as well just said, I'm going to go have sex with my girlfriend.
Well, you guys talk about your stupid virgin losers being angry about me.
Can't you see how fucking chat I am?
With my quirky t-shirt under my polo, my unkempt face.
My fat ass is like jealous.
You think of Quinton, my my gay frogs fucking in a conga line.
Yeah.
Do you think like when he goes on a first date, the first thing he says is like,
first of all, I immensely respect the struggle that all women do.
He would do that.
And I heard you guys say that I'd be like, check, please.
Yeah.
All right.
I'll pay for the water.
They would reintroduce the idea of red flags to him.
They'd be like, again, we need to have this discussion.
Oh, is that what you think?
You guys saw once.
Oh, my God.
I'm so ready to take a break in January.
I'm just gonna like.
You don't do anything.
You fucking record yourself vlogging.
I'm sorry.
I didn't realize I was so stressful.
It's like saying I need to have a nap.
Crying in these videos is extremely daunting.
It's like saying, oh, that nap was so stressful.
I need to take another nap to recover from it.
You know, when you sleep for 14 hours and you're just tired.
Yeah, that's kind of how I'm feeling right now.
God, so you did a great job when you dragged those images onto the timeline
and you cut your own face out of your framing.
Like, good job, buddy.
I don't have sympathy for people who record a vlog
and then complain that they have like, they need to take a break.
Come on.
And have an opinion about a movie I saw once.
Oh, my God.
I'm so ready to take a break in January.
I'm just gonna like take the whole month.
It's all right.
He can't handle it.
Take that whole month.
You do that, buddy.
Yeah, you look like a guy who really could use less work.
If you like this video and you want to support the channel,
I suggest checking out my Patreon.
That's the names crawling up on the screen right now are my Patreon supporters.
Luckily, they're scrolling by at a really strange rate that I could barely read them out.
Gladnar, the dwarf supports him.
Gladnar, no.
Gladnar, no, this is the dwarves.
The dwarven ancestors frown upon your behavior.
Yes.
You've made all the dwarfs very many discussion videos.
And so, wow, exclusive Q and A's with Quentin reviews.
I guys get it before you get it before they run out of spaces.
$10.
Yeah, I was gonna get to ask a question.
Anyone who pledges $1 or more is gonna get to see the full video.
This month is going to be a bit of a like vlog sort of thing.
So I think that's gonna be fun.
So check that out if you would like to see content like that.
Beyond that, if you want to hear more from me on a regular basis,
check out my social media that's linked in the description.
And when the little button pops up on your screen in a minute,
with my little icon, click on the button and see if you're subscribed.
And if you're not subscribed, subscribe.
Because by the start of 2021, I want to hit 400,000 subscribers.
And I feel like we really need to start fighting for that now.
If it's ever gonna be realistic.
Man, I just never cared about my sub count.
With that, I've been quitting reviews, and that's all you need.
You should be quitting reviews.
Oh, fucking got him.
Get rekt, virgin.
We did it.
You did it, Reddit.
We defeated Quintonius.
We did it.
So that wasn't great.
He made some points in there.
It's like mid tier in terms of the fab videos we cover, right?
Rags, what would you say?
I mean, it's bad, but it's not like terrible.
And he made some points.
I definitely would be ashamed of it if I had made it, but it's not like it would.
It's almost, well, it's like the script was 50-50.
It was the production elements outside of the scripts that were just like,
oh man, you need to, he just, he doesn't have passion for it.
He considers that hard work now.
Like that's where he's at.
Like, Quinton, you gotta, I don't know, man.
You gotta, like, there are, there are vloggers out there
who can make the editing, like turn the vlog into just wonderful reviews.
Like costumes, you know?
Well, I was going to say, we actually have someone here right now who does vlog videos
that are rather entertaining thanks to the editing.
Oh my God.
Clearly she made the wrong decision.
She should have just been like, man, I kind of wanted to take a break.
Check out my place.
Ask me about my flannel.
Oh, I want to ask, since the big boy himself is here,
ER, for all the super funny edits that involve like random memes pulled from here and there,
do you just kind of have those saved or do you just know what to Google for those?
Because I always think to myself, like, how would anyone know to pull this one
clever quote from a movie?
There is a movie database you can go to, you can put in lines,
and it'll just bring up what you need sometimes.
But what about for like video clips of like goofy memes?
Are those things that you just like know off the top of your head?
Yeah, that's just me being too online.
Very one of them chuds on you.
One of them Nazi chuds.
I think they wanted Nazi chuds.
I bet you hate to talk to you.
Shut the fuck up now.
Is it intentional that it's supposed to be like rhyming with Chad or what?
Chads who eat each other.
That's how Chad they are.
So, I was going to say we could we could jump into just watching
because it's diabetes review of Rise of Skywalker.
Get excited, people.
Yay!
Chad, can we get some sub-hype in the chat?
So hype.
For anyone who doesn't know, this is movie Robert,
and he had the the hottest of takes about this movie.
All he had to say, I believe he gave it a score of eight out of ten.
Shocking to everyone.
Yes, that's what I've been told.
A fantastic film.
Eight out of ten.
Just yeah.
So let's.
I'm still tripping on that green door.
He even painted the door green.
It's such a fascinating creative.
Don't you have one piece of wall that's large enough?
That's like something I was trying to do.
Oh, man.
Here we go.
How do you use that door without rubbing all the green paint off every time?
You can tell the light switch, too.
It still looks a bit like thingy like that.
Like he has been maybe puts a glove on.
I just really want all of the green to come off of the door knob
and then in all the green screen bits, you just see a door knob sticking out.
Yeah, in the middle of the scene.
It's fine.
Just like the Mandalorian.
No Mandalorian ship.
But how come they didn't put like a curtain?
Why didn't he get a curtain like most people do?
Well, you don't have to fuck up your door and your light switch.
Because then he'd have to take another trip to a home depot.
Oh, what's the point anyway?
Because you didn't do the right hand side over here with the door frame beam on it.
Like what's the point?
You just fucked up your door and your light switch for nothing.
Also, we can worry.
You're trying to say something.
What was it?
Yeah, why did you like the Mandalorian, bro?
Oh, me?
Characters consistently do things that are contrary to information
that they have and are incredibly stupid.
And this is what drives the plot along.
There you go.
With that in mind.
Okay.
We'll have an, we'll have an Efap about it.
We will.
Okay.
We'll talk all about why the Mandalorian is really kind of garbage.
I know.
It'll be Efap's hot take of 2020.
Well, but I'm pretty, I'm pretty confident once we actually point it all out.
I mean, we're not going to get people disagreeing with us on episode four.
I know that much.
Oh yeah.
But imagine, but four is really just a, all the episodes after four are just four to slightly
lesser degree, except maybe the last one.
I don't know if that one's worse than four or not.
All right.
Yeah.
I mean, we'll.
Movie Bob says it's fine.
Oh, then if anything, that's just vindication of
what I said.
Also for me, it says there's four people in the room in the six of us.
Is anybody unable to get in right now?
Um, it's acting a little funny for me.
I'm in there.
If I'm going to take him back to zero, just tell me if it is not playing for you right now.
Relax.
It's fine.
Just like the Mandalorian is fine.
Just like the better animated ones are fine.
Just like Solo was fine.
I thought no Solo was terrible.
Solo is not fine.
How is everything just fine to you?
Except Joker, which is bad.
I was about to say he's such a bad guy.
I think he's like the weirdest creator we cover because I cannot predict like what he's going
to think of a thing.
I used to think it was just the reverse of what was what you could call the most likely
understanding of the product itself, if you will, the content, the media.
But like at this point, I don't know.
You could just have any take.
Also, we can worry here.
You're too quiet.
Chad is saying so boost your level or have quiet now.
Oh, wait.
Yeah, you're kind of quiet.
He's on either have Mahler boost your level for himself.
He's on maximum tisms, I'm afraid.
Yeah, then.
Yeah, just do it through windows.
I'll do the DC thing again.
Maybe boost your mic.
Oh, no, no, no.
Your your connection is fine.
You're just quiet.
Wait, wait.
Hello.
Is that better?
Hello.
Yes, we can hear you.
Good enough.
You're just quiet.
We'll see what you're saying right now.
Yeah, I I put output volume at max.
Oh, my God.
That's you at maximum times two on my end.
Yeah.
Well, how do you get so loud for your videos?
Oh, I got I got Adobe edition.
Curse you Adobe.
Obi one Adobe.
We can can you just try to like try to project a lot more right now
and let's see if that's louder.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, that's better.
Better.
Yeah.
Maybe just like kind of mumble in a little bit.
Hi.
Yeah, I think just.
This is this is Diabido.
Get excited.
Yeah, let's do it.
Come on, guys.
Let's do it.
Woo!
Most of the Star Wars stuff is fine apart from like a lot of terrible spin-off novelizations.
Fine.
Okay, seriously, like lay it all out.
And like two of these movies are really good.
Two of them are legit.
Damn bad.
One of them changed the world of cinema forever, irrespective of how good it was.
And the rest of them are fine.
I don't know which ones, which could be Bob saying it.
Yeah, I was going to say, I don't know which one.
Damn bad.
I think PLJ is like the game changer for him.
I think if there's only one game changer, it would have to be a new hope, surely.
Yeah.
But he said that was the one that changed cinema forever.
Unless he's saying the Last Jedi changed cinema forever.
It did not.
I think.
Unless you mean it encouraged other people to write terribly because you can make money regardless.
That's gotta be it.
Yeah, I don't know.
Like, fucking hell.
Decent.
Solid.
Good movie.
Maybe even a little better than that if you can divorce yourself completely from outside the
film bullshit about writer-director plans and studio insider politics no one actually knows
about, which you should do anyway unless related to that is your job.
I don't like how he cuts himself into himself.
It's really just disjointing.
Like, almost like he's interrupting himself.
Dude, don't even talk about the joint state of Diomedo.
How do you think his joints feel right now?
Yes.
Well, he can float.
Surely they'll do it okay.
Oh, god.
Then when he hits the ground and they have to support his weight, you're like, oh my god.
Bullshit about writer-director plans and studio insider politics no one actually
knows about, which you should do anyway unless related to that is your job.
Nobody knows about.
Okay, here we go.
Hey, guess what?
The big picture now has merchandise.
Oh, wow.
How do you fuck up your microphone after this long doing this video?
Yes!
Merchandise, yes!
Sorry, I get really excited about that.
Hey, guys.
Go to www.ribbubble.com forward slash people forward slash moviebob.
Did anyone buy that?
Forward slash 2529276-big-picture-with-moviebob-logo.
Just enter that in manually into your your little bar at the top.
And you go directly to the shirt.
Did anyone buy these?
Be honest, because oh my.
Who the fuck would want an article of clothing with his fucking name on it?
Oh, I don't want people associating your stance on eugenics with me, so.
That's right.
For the first time, you can get official shirts, different types of shirts, other clothes,
pillows and other things that say I've heard of this thing from the internet.
Check out our first ever design available exclusively.
Imagine having a pillow with his face on it.
Oh, I want a beanbag chair.
I would buy that.
No, just a bag for your face.
Oh, well.
And the last thing that he needs is more beans.
I mean, sure, I guess.
This is highbrow content on eFap, ladies and gentlemen.
Go for the beans.
Red Bull by following this link and keep an eye out for more big picture and moviebob
productions merchandise coming soon because you demanded it.
I didn't.
How lies in slander.
I did not demand anything.
Yeah, extra doubt.
Yeah.
What the fuck is this intro?
It's like a really manly metal guitar riff and then boom, you see a picture of a moviebob.
This is like Mike Tyson trying to sell encyclopedia Britannicas.
I'm a badass.
So cool.
It's also like a most boomer introduction.
Well, no pressure, huh?
Just to find out whether or not what's being pitched as the definitive end to something
we definitively know is not ending sticks a landing that, depending on who you ask,
either involves undoing and previously apologizing for having.
Oh, wait, wait, wait.
Fucking hell.
He talks like a trade.
Can you go back, Holler?
Can you look at the things are efficient and comfortable.
It's kind of like spoken word rap like already.
I'm like, I don't even know what he just said.
Like a shopping cart being pushed down a mountain.
You know, I guess I was poetic.
We're going to slow him a little bit.
Look at the green shirt.
There's a green part that's like cutting because of the tie fight is like fucked
because of the green screen.
He didn't talk to us last time in when he actually showed himself, did he?
I don't.
Yeah, because he had to go on last time.
It's the big picture is the show where he speaks fast.
Escape to the movies is supposed to be normal speed, but this is still just garbled.
That's just everybody waiting to find out whether or not what's being pitched is the
definitive end to something we definitively know is not ending sticks a landing that,
depending on who you ask, either involves undoing and previously apologizing for having offended
the sensibilities of someone in the previous sequel or offending those same sensibilities
more in the same way.
What was that?
I'm still kind of trying to process just what was being said there.
That was like a picture of nerds.
We need a translator.
Why do you speak this way?
Like a Twitter feminist to come and like transcribe what is being.
I'm going to repeat him again.
I just I'm going to do what I can here.
Jesus.
Being pitched as the definitive end to something we definitively know is not ending sticks a landing
that, depending on who you ask, either involves undoing and previously apologizing for having
offended the sensibilities of someone in the previous sequel or offending those same sensibilities
more in the same way.
All right, team, what have you got?
We need a professional.
We need a professional food taster.
I'm putting this I'm putting this shit in my mouth.
I just picture like so we'll put the statement in the center of a table gave a team an hour
and they came in.
There's blank pages like I don't know.
This is just he's saying something about like I think what he's trying to say is that it's
either it's going to piss some people off or it's going to piss other people off.
OK, it's basically some people will really like it.
Some people will really not like it.
And that's all you had to say.
But he had to do the most roundabout possible.
I think complicated method of expressing that, which is really like the opposite of what language
should do.
But like he thinks this is like alliteration and good writing.
It's like it's a very stylish review, but it's really just like, well, Patrick Willems said
he was good.
You calling Patrick Willems a liar?
Calling him incompetent.
Yes, also that I believe Patrick Williams would lie very easily.
Well, that's probably because, well, you didn't like The Last Jedi, right?
Did you like Rose Tico?
Yes, I hate women, but he's not a woman.
So what's my excuse now?
Yeah.
I gotcha.
I'm untouchable.
Oh, all right.
Let's let's I think I think I understand the fit.
Let's let's give him another sentence then.
Let's see where we go.
Man, remember back when the important thing was how you felt about a movie instead of whether
or not it was making some other hypothetical person you dislike feel one way or the other
weird, huh?
Oh, that ain't on us, buddy.
I solely dislike this movie because the people that I hate like it.
That's my entire modus operandi.
I mean, we would downright curious how people will get a feel about this movie,
but that doesn't change how we felt about it.
Like, yeah, still fit.
That's why it's nice to be objective.
You don't have to worry about shit like that.
Wow, Rags, that just triggered a thousand people.
Oh, my God.
How could you do that?
Good, because apparently all I care about is making people angry.
So you do remember how you killed out, right?
I did kill art.
I went to its funeral and I took a fucking shit on his wife.
Oh, why I can't I can't be dealing with this life.
Life's just attending the funeral.
You just walk over to the dump.
I just I just walked up and I just lifted my leg and pissed on her dress.
That's why we're black at funerals, sister.
Now, in case you can't tell, the fact that it was accepted as kind of a given
that the reviews of Rise of the Skywalker were going to most skywalker.
This is a meme going around like people just keep fucking up.
It is called the Rise of Skywalker.
A lot of people call it Rise of Skywalker, which I think is fair.
But some people are going to get the Rise of the Skywalker.
Which is actually technically more accurate.
I suppose.
Yeah, because it's a singular person.
Only one left.
They're all fucking dead.
Well, it's pretty hollow, isn't it?
Apparently all you need to raise Skywalker is just have someone go.
I'm a Skywalker now.
Yep.
That's it.
It's very emotional and wonderful.
Beautiful.
Use of its relationship to the last Jedi and the grotesquely over discussed tantrum
a particular tragic slice of the internet has been having about it since it came out
is something I find kind of annoying.
So I'm kind of relieved.
These flirt.
Oh, yeah.
You come across like you don't realize that I'm not looking to do that.
So I can skip it here for now.
So if I don't have to spend years of it.
Just talk about the fucking movie.
You don't have to go to the long diatribe about the history and blah blah blah.
Let's talk about the fucking movie.
No, that would be that's what just just what the chuds want.
Oh, then it must be wrong.
Oh, shit.
I don't even know.
I find a lot of merit in the idea that this movie is a reaction or apology to the last one
any more than the last one was some kind of swipe against the rest of the franchise or
JJ Abrams or whatever.
I just don't see any indication of the production of mouth's trilogy being any kind of conflict.
So much as an awkward game of telephone being played by only two people with three
turns because JJ Abrams came back in to do this last one instead of the originally
tapped director Colin Trevorrow.
And there's a definite sense.
What did he how did he how did he describe Colin Trevorrow?
Originally tapped.
Which is okay.
Phrasing wise.
I thought he said that.
Yeah.
Well, he spent like I followed that like I get it.
You're saying that the films are funky because it's like
it's being passed between people who have these directors.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Following.
I'm the square a bunch of ideas that he must have had about where things might go in the next two
when setting up the force awakens originally while also respecting the actual plot points
and scenario left in place by Ryan Johnson and the last Jedi.
And as you might expect the result of that is
is this going to be a review of the film or.
What's going to be like half over half of Quentin's video where it's just like other shit.
A notably long seven minutes.
Yeah, we're still not halfway.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, but still this is this is a review of a movie that's seven minutes total and
we're three minutes in and he hasn't talked about the movie yet.
It's fine.
He said it's fine.
Remember that.
Oh, okay.
Way back.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
He said it's all fine though.
And if everything's fine, it doesn't help us to say that this is fine.
Despite Ryan Johnson and the last Jedi and as you might expect the result of that is a
notably long very action heavy and propulsively paced final installment that occasionally feels
like two films worth of plot compressed into a single film worth of narrative as concerns the
spoiler free excluding stuff that's just basic plot info or already in the trailer because those
don't count narrative in question.
The already chaotic war state between the resistance and first order has been thrown
into chaos on both ends by the apparent resurrection of Emperor Palpatine.
Kylo Ren wants to find it in chaos for the first order.
They're doing pretty well.
Apparently, they're on planets.
They're rounding people up.
They're doing okay.
It's really weird.
Well, they have that line in the opening of the film where they're like,
he wants to kill any threat to Kylo wants to kill the threat to his power.
But then like halfway through the film, he's like,
Palpatine doesn't realize that me and you can kill him because we're a dyad in the force that
it's like, wait, how do you even know what that is?
We want that at the end, he sort of pops up, I guess, throw down a hole.
So like Kylo's perspective on Palpatine is just kind of like, I don't really know.
Also, if Snoke knew that Rey was really important and that he needed to that Kylo needed to kill
her and Snoke was a creation of Palpatine who is basically being controlled by Palpatine.
How would Palpatine not know that they're a dyad?
Also, he seems to be able to spy on them all the time.
Remember how he's like inside Kylo's head and he also he's the one who set up there for Skype, right?
Yeah, it was Snoke through Palpatine, I guess.
Very hard to keep track of how everything works.
Yeah, it's hard to control who's got mind control over who or who's controlling who or
it's very it's strange.
It's a very strange film.
I just feel like it doesn't really make sense.
You know, you ever got that feeling with this movie?
It's just it's bullshit.
That doesn't make any sense.
It's fine, Rags.
It's fine.
It's fine.
It's fine.
It's fine.
I feel fine.
I feel fine.
Eeyar, do you feel it makes sense?
Oh, yes.
Your fucking subscriber is going to get very disappointed if that's you're going to give
it to me a take, dude.
He's subverting.
Eeyar, please help us.
They're fucking scary.
They're terrified.
We can't we can't quash this uprising.
You must tell them that it does not make any fucking sense.
All makes as much sense as it ever did.
Repeat after me.
Diabido.
He's worried he might challenge him to lead the first order.
The resistance also wants to find him because, you know, he's the big bad guy.
And he might replenish their enemies with powerful weapons.
And well, motivations end up shifting around at least one of those two fronts.
Both sides end up treasure hunting for an ancient Sith relic that will help locate
the once thought mythic Sith homeworld.
Well, Palpatine is presumably high.
Those cuts, man.
Like what is going on?
Yeah, just just speak like a normal fucking person.
Do you think he brought normally some pauses in between words or sentences?
Yeah, do you think that he's like trying to do a sentence and he continues the sentence
after the breath and then in editing, he's like, oh, got to cut that breath.
And he cuts it so finely.
The words connect to each other like that.
You're like, whoa, that's how you do it.
It's like a jump cut.
It's so much effort to edit to make your video worse.
Probably makes it more intelligent and like snappy.
I'm so definite with everything that I say.
I just bam, bam, bam, point after point after point.
I'm so just like a fucking point machine.
Just like a logical machine gun.
I work for the escapist.
He says that to himself after every sentence.
Can I also point out at this point, like Palpatine was trying to do
Ben by saying, I'll give you my fleet.
But was it the first order like on top of the world already that really not.
Yeah.
So like the first order had the same kind of ships and the same kind of armor
and the same forms and command structure.
But they were a totally different thing underneath Palpatine.
Like when they came up from the ground, was Palpatine like were they just
in there hoping that Kylo said yes, so they could go home or what?
That's the.
I'm so confused.
Apparently those ships are stocked by 3000 units.
So they're all just sitting in the ground running off of something like they've
probably got some maybe like some some canned foods and they're like, oh man,
Kylo, find that way.
Find us so that Emperor Palty can lift us up.
Finally, I want to know which way is up.
It's bizarre and it's definitely one of those things.
It's like, don't think about it.
Don't think about it.
Don't think about it.
And then you're like, oh, fuck, I did.
I fuck.
Did think about it because it's really dumb.
Ray, having been studying the sacred Jedi text, believe she knows where to look.
But that means going back into battle early before
completing her Jedi training at a general layup.
Have we ever actually seen a Jedi finish their training?
That's a good point.
Like I know it's the thing about training.
You never finish your training.
You see, movie is the apex reviewer.
He's the best ever.
So he thinks that you can indeed ascend to godhood.
He is.
Movie has completed his training.
Doesn't Yoda say that Luke finished his training in
Empire, retraining the Jedi?
I think Bobbert's point was that.
Yes, go on.
Yeah, but not like like there's no like Luke finished off a big robot.
And then Yoda came in and said, you did it, Luke.
You train.
No, Jedi training level 10.
Yeah, yeah.
Bob's Bob wants that.
Because I don't think that's how it works.
I think the master just randomly goes like, yes, enough, I guess.
You're pretty good.
I don't want you to show me up, so we're going to quit there.
I feel like Leia was probably like, you have probably finished your training.
You are the most powerful creature on this planet.
She's like, OK, cool.
I did it.
I ran for a bit.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, also Leia stopped being a Jedi.
Like she didn't complete the training technically, right?
Yeah, well, I mean, he's got he's got
a partial point.
It seems like nobody really everyone always abandons training.
Like, but yeah, but then Leia is now a master at training.
Ray.
Oh, yeah.
No, I don't understand how she can train Ray.
I don't see how that works, especially if she left training.
What seemed to be very early on in her own trade.
I don't know.
And also since her needs training.
Yeah.
Also, I'd like the floating ball when she beat Luke's ass in TLJ.
Pop that shit.
I mean, yeah, Luke is just awful.
Luke's just worthless.
It looks pretty pathetic.
Why are you surprised by that?
Was Luke something else at some point?
Yeah, my bad.
My bad.
He was always a pathetic piece of shit.
Of course.
Of course.
Oh, wow.
You think that no one has any flaws by saying that?
Yeah.
Let's go back.
We're told that all of the Jedi we've seen finish training.
Finished training.
But we never really see anyone who starts do it.
Anyway, ultimately the quest becomes a planet to planet chase between the main heroes and Kylo
Ren with a newly added wrinkle of Ray being plagued by Force visions relating to her still
enigmatic past and must pull towards situations that might explain that.
Meaning that the non-Jedi heroes are amusingly operating at the mercy of a super powered friend
whose exceptional skills and magic abilities they need, but who is also not quite there right
now and keeps wandering off in between.
Yeah, I agree.
It's really weird.
She has more than one moment of just being like, well, I'm going to fuck off now.
But it's like, um, you're like the best person on our team, but okay.
All right.
Star quarterback.
I guess we'll try to win without you.
And like Poe gets pissed at it, if you remember.
And he's like, what the fuck?
And then then Finn pulls out the whole like, you're not Leia or something to pose like.
Wow.
Yeah, I was like, oh my God, this is such a revelation to me that I'm not Leia.
And in the theater, I was like, thank God, he's not Leia.
They'd all be dead right now.
It's just that the whole like, I'll be dead right now if he was.
I just don't like the attitude of post always wrong.
He's trying to be reasonable in like every scene.
Oh, guy, like he, he did like the super risky moves in the opening to save everyone's lives
and get the information for the rebellion.
He gets off the ship.
He like fucking like probably pretty stressed out, anxious about the fact that he died.
Then you got this woman being like, hey, you damaged my ship.
You're like, oh, I'm sorry.
And she was like, you can't light speed skip the compressors all fucking.
He's like, okay, but I did.
So I don't know.
Oh, do you know Po wasn't really done anything that impressive.
Just think about anything.
Really think of me and what has he done?
Oh, killed the star killer base.
He lords that over everybody.
It didn't really matter.
They had a thousand more of those.
Yeah.
And apparently one why we can just shoot at one for like two seconds on us.
I want to blow it up.
So really what you did, Po is pretty.
I mean, that's like what we expect you to do.
It's nothing that anyone can do it.
Uh, some people are suggesting.
It's like, well, we know that people finished their training.
Like Anakin was almost becoming a master.
We know Obi-Wan did.
It's like in fitness, the movie, Bobby saying we don't get the scene
in which they complete their training.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like you're finished now.
You know, there's no graduation, you know, you don't get your trophy
and you're like, hooray, you did it.
You're a Jedi knight now or a master.
Now you got to the top.
So good job.
Well done.
Let's go have a let's go have a snack.
That's what I do.
I probably got a snack with Qui-Gon Jinn.
It'd be great.
Oh my God.
Tell us about just everything.
You know what's going to happen?
Like to all of this, it's fucking nuts.
You have no idea what you'll start up, dude.
The state of the universe is going to be so batshit insane.
You wouldn't even believe it.
There are reunions, reveals, chases, saber duels, rescues, and of course,
a great big space battle.
That's about all I can really say plot wise without people yelling at me about spoilers.
Is it a bit too long?
Yeah.
But for the most part, it really cooks because it's all for moving action.
It's all for moving action.
You couldn't edit that?
It's an interesting or innovative is the last.
Why can't you just say a sentence?
Just say a sentence.
It really cooks.
I'm not.
Yeah, like it was like it went really quickly.
Yeah, right.
I've just not heard someone refer to it that way before.
All right.
I wouldn't be surprised if I heard movie Bob.
If movie Bob ever used the phrase like razzle dazzle,
and ironically, one of his like video reviews, I would not be surprised.
Oh my goodness.
Razzle dazzle.
The old razzle dazzle.
Give me old razzle dazzle.
When he talks about cooked, he means like food.
Cooking food to get it to an edible state.
So the movie really became edible.
That's what he's saying.
It nourished him.
Right.
It continued to expand the lore if you understand my meaning.
No, but I do think on balance, it's better than The Force Awakens,
particularly because while it's everyone is committed to the initial new trilogy
gimmick of being self consciously about a new generation grappling with having inherited Star
Wars.
I thought you liked meta stuff.
I mean, meta narratives.
I thought he loved it all.
I wonder how many actual like real people out there go into this.
Oh, yeah, this is actually commentary on the meta narrative.
In fact, the new generation is inheriting Star Wars,
just in the way that in the universe, all these characters are blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Is it?
No, no one does.
No one gives a shit about that.
Bob was just like, you talked to the average movie go.
They're like, well, I just I don't know.
There was lightsabers and I remember people killing each other and stuff.
I don't know.
Yeah, I loved it.
It was my favorite.
It was my favorite part.
This is my favorite part.
To this one is more in conversation with the prior events and decisions of its actual characters
as opposed to the events of two earlier trilogies character.
And if you're looking for a coherent through line at this trilogy,
at this point, it feels clear that Awakens was meet the new heroes.
Last Jedi was here.
This one is OK.
Here's who they definitely are.
On the more visceral side, there's some very strong and innovative action beats,
including a solution to a space battle that I don't think even Star Wars has tried to pull off
before and all of that psychic force communication.
What is he referring there?
Is he referring to the final battle at the end?
Solution to a space battle.
Is he talking about like the specific mechanics of the solution?
Like, oh, they don't have shields.
You have to shoot the underbelly cannons.
I don't know.
Let's give him a good old listen again, because this video has been strange.
It feels clear that Awakens was meet the new heroes.
Last Jedi was here's who everyone definitely isn't.
And now this one is OK.
Here's who they definitely are.
On the more visceral side, there's some very strong and innovative action beats,
including a solution to a space battle that I don't think even Star Wars has tried to pull off before.
Is he referring to like the final battle?
He must be.
Yeah, that is.
Yeah, because that's the only one that I remember.
Because the only other one was the TIE fighter chase.
Yeah.
And the only reason that's never been thought of is because it's never been an issue before.
It's because Rian Johnson made it an issue.
It's just funny, though, because it's such a like almost because you know how it's the beginning of the movie.
I like to think that maybe JJ was like, all right, let's give it our best shot.
First thing we got to do is fix the fact that they can track us through lightspeed or hyperspace.
They say lightspeed in the in the films, but maybe that's just shorthand to refer to hyperdrive.
Probably, I think.
He totally gave up on that further on in the film because they don't use it ever again.
But they use hyperspace.
They just say, like, they're not following us.
How weird?
It's like, well, well, somebody sent me this.
It's a little old, but it holds up.
I bought a boom font.
Dick chocolate.
And also someone reminded.
Oh, geez.
Droid had the map thingy to Exegol.
Yeah.
So oh, you know, great.
It's it's a bad.
And yeah, there's that that Twitter thing where, like, Bob followed someone.
You're like, oh, that's so bad.
Fuck did I wrong that Robert follows me.
Yeah, it feels bad, man.
One of the worst people I've ever seen on this site.
I'm really glad you don't get to enjoy Night of the Woods because you're too dense to understand it.
Oh, poor Robert.
Oh, man.
Like, nobody likes him.
Patrick Willems likes I don't know.
Yeah, that's like a negative.
That's like negative people liking you.
I guess.
Yeah, that's a moment of like, oh, oh, Robert, we're his biggest fans.
Diabeto forever.
He's going to have his own saga.
It's going to be great.
And all of that psychic force communication, projection, reaching across time and space power
introduced in Last Jedi gets used in a bunch of clever, elaborate ways.
Daisy Ridley and Adam Driver are both home.
They're individual characters and chemistry to a very strong place.
And their scenes together are easily the strongest in the film.
There's also a lot of enjoyable new side characters, including some wonderfully alien
looking aliens and some at least two new supporting heroines who both seem to have
spin off maybe named tags underneath their uniforms.
Oh, yeah.
I can't wait to get more of Zori Bliss and the other one.
No.
Oh, Janna.
She uses a bow.
He does use a break.
That's interesting.
Yeah, they're great.
I guess especially.
Yeah, so much we can do with this video because he's just vaguely
complimenting the film and it's like, huh?
Yeah.
He actually liked the weird thing.
It's true.
I will say that while this definitely feels like a return to the familiar JJ Abrams style
of Star Wars, it's also a more interesting film because of what it has to grapple with
having been left with it by the Last Jedi and not just in the new force powers.
It's a much more interesting, unusual who can say if Abrams liked or disliked any of
the plot turns that he's been left.
I think it's pretty obvious that he didn't.
I think it's like obvious that he didn't.
If we had to guess, I think it's safe to say that he fucking hated the Last Jedi.
And I think that he was downright reserved in terms of what he probably could have done,
but he didn't not take a just shoot where he could in terms of just like, yeah, you know what?
This thing?
Fuck this thing.
We need episode 10 to be made by Rian Johnson just to see all the hitbacks,
but then that would mean having another Star Wars film by Rian Johnson.
So maybe that's not worth it.
And this is almost six minutes and he hasn't really given his real thoughts.
First few minutes of this review and you could have stopped it.
And you get what Bob thinks of Rise of Skywalker.
Pretty much.
A little highlight that he said alien looking aliens.
I'm giving him a pass for it because of the fact that you can have human looking aliens in Star Wars.
I guess he's trying to say they actually look like the alien creatures versus humanoids or
whatever. I guess that's what he's going for.
Yeah, I think he Bob is kind of what you get when you get so up your own ass about like a
metanarrative and just critiquing things that a normal critique, like just a very plain.
I like this.
I didn't like that.
It just feels like no, it's too shallow.
It's too superficial.
I got to go into like I got to narrate narration.
I got to think about thoughts and it just becomes this whole circle jerk about like
who has the wrong opinions instead of just like, yeah, I thought it was good.
Fucking for sure.
The way he speaks is like I just.
I always wonder if his people in his fan base, like if they consume one of his videos,
how much can they actually recant even if it's just three minutes of it?
How much can they say back to me?
I just be like, I probably think he's like a visionary genius critic.
Sure.
He thinks very highly of his self himself that he thinks that he's incredible.
I would hope so.
He's definitely a genius carries himself with such a confidence.
There's no way he had this.
There's like a humble bone in that fat, amorphous body.
But it certainly added elements of new dynamic storytelling to what was previously
mostly a nostalgia trip.
In the end, it is a big movie full of Star Wars stuff.
Well-directed with a good cast.
I had a bunch of fun watching it.
I found the big emotional heartstring tugging moments pretty powerful for the most.
Wow, that's crazy.
They were all just like comedy for me.
Does he know how much like his sort of group of friends,
if you will, in terms of critics hate this movie?
Like Patrick Willems fucking hated this film.
I wonder how that went down.
I wonder if Bob was like, hey, man, it's not that bad.
Still recommend.
Why he still recommends Movie Bob.
One of the good ones.
Maybe he doesn't anymore.
Maybe he needs to teach Bob what his mistakes are.
He thinks this is an eight out of 10.
Easy layout, genuflection, and nostalgia in order to guarantee a Pavlovian emotional
response and I'm still getting legitimately choked up.
Clearly the filmmakers are doing something right.
Like I said, that's about where I can get without spoilers.
I'll likely do another episode of the other show soon with more of that nitty gritty stuff.
For now, I like movies.
I like Star Wars when it's good.
Rise of the Skywalker is a good Star Wars movie.
So I'm going to give this one eight out of 10.
Wow.
Eight out of 10.
There it is.
Wow.
Wow.
There it is.
It's a great Star Wars movie.
It's eight out of 10.
Complete with boomer outro.
Does that make it?
Jeez.
Wow.
Loads of people use that ping sound and loads of people play it way too loud.
Like I like cheeseburgers and the cheeseburger I found on the silo road was eight out of 10.
I love cheeseburgers and cheeseburgers.
I think what would always be more than the ding is the
everything that moves on screen has to whoosh violently.
Yeah, I don't even.
That's like my pet peeve.
Also, yeah.
I'm not a huge fan of sound effects myself.
He said Pavlovian as well to describe something back there.
I sort of just skipped over it.
So I was like, Bob, you're a strange man.
And like this video, like it's probably the most normal video he's made in terms of just.
Yeah, it is.
He just sort of.
He just sort of explained a bunch of like vagaries about a movie being okay to good
and they gave it a really high score.
Eight out of 10 is pretty good.
Like I'm surprised he must get out of 10 is.
Oh man, if your career was an eight out of 10.
Fucking solid work, man.
A Hall of Fame for you.
Like also spoiler for you reviewed is completely relinquishes him of the need to like
specify even the slightest qualifier as to why he enjoyed it.
Yeah, you just couldn't.
He couldn't even be bothered to say like, I like the themes.
Oh, this I thought the pacing was good.
He just talked about like the audience and shit for a while.
May the force be with you.
I feel like with music like that, it's just like,
yeah, I'm fucking hardcore hardcore review.
Hardly Davidson.
Look at the res of the fucking audience.
It's like pixelated like, come on, Bob.
You know, Bob.
Bob Chipman, 82 at gmail.com.
That's his I.
You need to do that or that or that.
That could be it.
He thought that he thinks that eight out of 10 is good.
So an 82 IQ must be really good.
What if this end slate is just like copy and pasted from like an old like 2007
review that he did, and that's why the resolution is the way that it is.
The music like you can't help but feel the music is just like, wow,
this is just you made this 10 years ago and you never changed it.
Jessica.
Sorry, what is Big Luke?
Big Luke.
Big Luke is my name.
I give to my door, my green door.
Watch out for old big.
I open them, close them.
Wolf said that outro music for Bob reminds me of when Brett
Keene used his brother's music in his video.
Oh, yeah, it's kind of remember this.
Oh, my God.
Get more Bob.
Get more Bob.
You thought it did this not satisfy you.
Do you need to be done for a drive after this?
Well, you could get more Bob at Movie Bob Central.
I guess maybe Movie Bob was let me check if Movie Bob was taken.
Oh, my God.
Movie Bob dot com.
What if it just like relinks to Movie Bob Central on Uniregistry dot com.
Movie Movie Bob dot com is listed for sale.
You can buy it for two thousand five hundred dollars.
Someone someone buy that domain and link it to like an officially licensed like Diabeto comic series.
I'm going to offer.
I'm going to offer one dollar for it.
I'm going to submit an inquiry to the seller.
For a dollar from Movie Bob dot com.
Oh, my God.
You make this a reality, please.
I put in my name, my email address.
See if they get back to me.
Are you actually doing it, aren't you?
Yeah, I'm offering a dollar.
There's a thing there's submitted and created a seller and they have payment methods and
it's a you can make an offer.
I'm not a robot.
That's one dollar.
You know, let's let's still give them five.
Splurge for it.
Let me submit inquiry.
Get more Bob at Pornhub dot com.
Porn Bob.
Oh, you have to.
It's a minimum of five hundred that you have to make an offer for.
I don't want it for that much.
I was a joke.
I don't actually want it, but if I could get it for five bucks, I would email them and say,
all right, Bob, let's let's let's haggle you and I.
You want Movie Bob dot com?
What are you going to offer me?
That's why I know like make me an offer, my dude.
But yeah, Mr. Weekend Warrior is about his time to escape this horrible stream.
He's saying we should super chat fund buying Movie Bob dot com.
I think you could pull it off.
Yeah, you could crowdfund.
I mean, Quentin got his sex style crowdfunded.
Why not?
I don't know.
Anything is possible.
Not us.
We're going to do highbrow stuff like buying Movie Bob dot com.
Just so Movie Bob can't have it.
But yes, before you go, would you like to tell people about your channel and why they should
subscribe?
Hello.
Yes.
Subscribe to my channel, folks, lads and ladies, because I I'd like to think I do fun stuff.
Yeah, you do.
I like your videos.
Thank you.
Thank you, my Edward.
You're welcome.
Did you mean Ewok?
Thanks, Mike.
My Ewok.
Instead of word, it's Ewok.
It's going to be a thing.
I don't know.
I get influenced heavily by Nazi YouTube as like with the reviews.
And I guess I've just picked it up.
I know.
It's Ewok with a hard K.
People that are saying if they all give one dollar,
we'll be able to buy Movie Bob dot com.
Can we get that as like a fucking stretch?
Yeah, let's do it.
If everyone gives a dollar, Movie Bob dot com belongs to Efap.
Yeah.
Come on, guys.
What what an incredible flex.
You would be so like defeated.
You'd be like, wow.
Yeah, that would be.
You fuckers.
And it's just a picture of like Efap.
It's just a picture of of all of the links covering Movie Bob on the.
It just redirects to Efap dot com.
Yeah, that me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, my gosh.
Not tangent off of him.
But yes, just subscribe to Weekend Warrior.
The links in chat and in the description.
Thank you for hanging out with us for as long as you did.
This was fun.
Yeah.
I mean, thanks.
Thanks for coming.
And I hope I never talk to you again.
Thanks for having me.
My Ewoks.
You bet.
Talking dude.
I'll see you soon.
Oh, yes.
Good night.
Good morning.
Yeah.
Oh, you know, it's morning here.
My Ewoks.
Yay.
Morning here.
My Ewoks.
I was probably going to kick up honestly.
My Ewoks.
Okay.
My Ewoks.
I'll see you.
I'll see you.
Bye bye bye.
Bye bye bye.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I hope he uses that in one of his videos.
And his subscribers have no fucking clue what he's talking about.
My Ewoks.
My Ewoks.
You need that deep lore.
But yeah, so we defeated both Diabeto and Quintonius.
Though Diabeto's one was kind of like...
Kind of meh.
He's got another video where he like goes into more detail.
Maybe we'll cover that one another time.
It's called The Rise of Skywalker's polarizing critics.
But for what reasons?
And this is who?
That's Diabeto.
Diabeto?
Oh, my goodness.
Diabeto is the soul of it.
Obviously some...
Diabeto's a silhouette.
The soul of Hwet.
Those are like $1.00 donations right now.
Like people really want that website, I guess.
Yeah, absolutely.
You know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know,
yeah, absolutely.
You know, it's like my favorite fucking...
Never mind.
I lost my train of thought.
Thinking about Diabeto.
I was super interested in your train of thought.
I know.
This gravitational pull just yanked me out of my series of thoughts.
It's gravitational pull.
Because he's a massive.
Yeah, I suppose there are some memes I'm going to need to collect.
We can go through them and then read some super chats.
This would obviously be a good juncture
if anybody would like to eject themselves or hang around.
It's completely up to you.
I'm staying full time, baby.
Ew.
All right, man.
Well, then you guys got to start a conversation
about something while I collect memes.
It's very important that I do this.
Okay, chat.
Real quick.
What video games and or anime are you consuming at the moment?
This is a question.
Well, yeah, Minecraft is a given, but beyond that,
you know, like I really I seriously got back into Minecraft.
My buddy, but a realm.
We've been playing Minecraft and playing Halo
and Delvin a little bit back into Vermintide to remember
when you and the middle commander and Mahler and I all played Halo together that one time.
And you guys you guys need to know that Rags is extremely good at Halo.
We he's really he always has the highest kill count out of all of us.
Oh, I it I mean, I guess I'm just good shooters.
I'm just good shooters, I guess.
I enjoy them.
I really enjoy them.
What else have I been playing?
I've been Minecraft.
I want to check my library.
The forest a little bit.
Yeah, yeah.
Dabble in Mordhous.
Still someone to the people playing Final Fantasy 14.
What classes are you playing?
That's what I need to know.
If it's anything other than Dark Knight or Red Mage, I don't care.
Master Chief.
I don't play the Final Fantasy 14 game.
Yeah, I played it for a while and then I just realized it's.
It's like people with Destiny 2 or really any other game like that,
or they just they kind of log in just to do their daily things.
And then as soon as they're done, they're just like,
okay, I didn't get any enjoyment out of that whatsoever.
I'll do it again tomorrow.
That's it.
That's all you got.
Yeah, that's all we got.
Yeah, I never I never felt at any point like I needed to get back into playing Destiny 2.
Like, I just feel like if I'm going to sink time into games,
Destiny 2 just isn't up there anywhere near being up there.
Yeah, honestly, now that Halo's on PC, there's like no reason.
Got some risk of rain twos and summoner.
We've got a warrior.
Divinity Original Sin 2.
Fantastic game.
Elite Dangerous.
Deus Ex Mankind Divided.
Good to see that pop up.
We've been having plenty of Witcher 3s.
Yeah, man.
If anyone in chat is particularly as into the VR scene as me,
get Vox Machinae on Steam.
Search V-O-X.
If you like a good VR game, you control the mech like you're in the cockpit,
moving handles and gear sticks and stuff like that.
It's a really good time.
You actually have to physically pick up a radio to talk to your teammates.
I play Gundam music and I shoot the rockets at people.
All right.
My memes have have brin brin brin.
That's you get you get that you translated that, right?
This is obviously top quality.
I love it like almost everybody, even like people in my family were like,
why did you keep using this lightning?
It's a little strange.
I would have stopped because I know like when I accidentally touch a hot stove,
I'm like, oh, no, let's not do that.
I regret this decision immediately.
Now I'm picturing you put your hand on it.
You just keep it there going.
This is the only thing that can give me direction at this point.
He's pretty old.
This is obviously a wonderful photo of Quinton in the wild.
Yeah, he's a carrot.
Yeah, I called him a carrot.
I'm sorry.
I get uncontrollable sometimes.
I call them a potato.
Who knows where this could go.
How many vegetables could he be?
It's just I'm so excited to see what plants he'll become.
I like this drawing a lot.
I mean, this image.
That's basically it.
I like that.
When did he make that face?
I don't know.
I don't actually know that.
Oh, God.
That's the face of regret.
Oh, my goodness.
How could a sex doll look so sad?
It's just the face of like, you don't know what he does.
Oh, really?
That's terrible.
Oh.
This is the musings of several memes
placed into each other, you know.
Represented by efap lore.
The infinity music.
Reality would be the cosmic chicken.
Mind would be bigidious.
Time would be the spider.
Space would be...
Is that the disappearing knife itself?
Is that the infinity stone?
Power 1.2 billion and soul be ghost milk?
It makes enough sense, I think.
We've got something to work with there.
We've got a few mystery boxes worth opening.
I love mystery boxes.
Yes.
Where did Bigidious come from, anyway?
Because I love his stoic expression.
So that's the 50th episode.
In fact, E.R. was there for the birth of Bigidious.
It's a good character.
Good OC.
I love Bigidious.
It's great.
I feel like...
Did you bring me?
That's great.
I really like that.
I fucking love that clip.
It's like my favorite thing.
I want to incorporate it all the time.
Isn't that the one where he's just like...
Isn't that the one where he's like,
what'd you bring me?
It's just absurdly sudden.
I can't remember what he's watching on the laptop
or someone just walks in and she's like,
oh, are you okay?
I know the whole...
He just slabs us.
What'd you bring me?
Violently fucking slams the table.
I think this is fair, the first order.
Do not know which way is down.
Watch Vsauce.
There was no internet connection next to the goal.
Sorry.
Oh no.
If only.
I actually wanted to send out a chat.
I love that.
He looks like he's got like fuck me eyes in that picture.
No!
Would you fuck me?
I know.
That's why I have a sex doll.
Don't lie to me.
I just hear, don't you want me, baby?
Here's one.
Somebody just...
I know you've been compiling them,
but I'll post this one.
Maybe you have it or not.
Let me click the button for it.
There we go.
I don't know what I'm looking at with this.
Yeah, this one is...
You want a jade?
Quinton, you brought this on yourself.
This is why YouTube has rules.
You're not supposed to be saying stuff like that.
Is that facial hair, dude?
Yeah.
People are going to tweet.
People are going to tweet so much racist shit at them now.
That wonky mustache button shop thing.
This is the scariest facial hair.
Let's go my E word.
Let's go my E word to the saloon.
Obviously just a screenshot from the movie.
Pretty interesting.
I can see how you can sort of connect Harry Potter.
Yeah.
It's like one in the same.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Is this a crossover?
Like official?
You sitcom.
Sitcom?
That's a clever word, boy.
I'm surprised they didn't have a quote like he wants,
you know, a specific food.
I mean, Palpatine's probably going to be pretty aggressive
when it comes to that stuff.
I need snacks to recharge my energy.
Oh, that's when I get.
You didn't explain the rules.
If Hitler kills Hitler, does he become Hitler
or was he already Hitler?
Double Hitler.
Double Hitler.
Oh, no, not double Hitler.
Not a potential out of that Harry Potter obsession he has.
Yeah.
That's weird how they have.
They just always talk about Harry Potter.
It's like his captive.
I didn't agree.
Can I go now?
You can.
This is a dark universe.
I installed an app that translates incoherent rambling
so I can understand what this old retard is saying.
Perfectly out of that image, too.
Yeah, it does.
Why is Quentin's face so fucking punchable?
Probably doesn't help the stupid shit that he says.
That probably doesn't, you know, like, you know,
that Louis CK joke where he's talking about,
like, in his day, the use of the word faggot
how it's like, I would say something like people
from Phoenix or Venetia.
That's like Quentin.
Like, he looks like the kind of guy
who would just correct you over innocuous shit
and you'd be like, fuck off.
Shut up.
China is racist.
He's making like an O face in every picture we have.
He's a terrible face.
I don't even remember what the context is for this,
but get him bring you.
Oh, this I'm posting this again.
Fuck it.
It's so good, though.
It's horrible.
This is the red flag thing.
I think I'm going to put out like a $500
bounty for anyone that can find Quentin
making like a soy face.
That's exactly what we were talking about.
Like how he's the woman, though.
Fuck me, please.
It's like that kind of is the soy face
in the upper left there.
We've checked off Ray low shippers,
nostalgia bait lovers.
I mean, the racists of the boardroom
that would be, you know, that's just I'm sorry
that they've got to mix up in this meme,
but, you know, still.
They can deliver on either of them.
Relevant means.
I'm going to work off of.
I really thought that you Genesis
would have had something for me.
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Movie Bob can disappoint.
Let's put it that way.
You are.
Has anyone ever told you that your gentle,
slightly hoarse voice is kind of like ASMR?
Uh, no.
Count one for that.
Fuck oh, I was going to say that's not a pretty
sexual that no.
This was bullshit.
Quentin has never looked this masculine.
Well, it's a fantasy fiction.
OK, but I like that the Bob one kind of does
the whole gaunt yet large face.
Yeah, yeah, pretty accurate.
He's got the dimples.
How are you so large?
But the front of your face is like and like is.
Clearly withering away.
To Quentin's and a diabetes.
I don't know.
How could we possibly defeat such a powerful beast?
Someone in chat said, why are we so obsessed
with Quentin?
It's so easy.
He's just so me.
Yeah, I mean, look at that face right there.
He looks like he's reluctantly pushing out
like a wet fart at all times.
Kind of.
He's a love job.
Also, this was the Quentin episodes.
Of course, there'll be Quentin memes abound.
I like this one because it's true.
He's got that shit eating grin when he's
smashing it through.
You can't stop me.
You had your movie.
Now I have mine.
No backsies.
No backsies.
Uh, I miss Jack.
It's OK.
He's been he's been pre-kicked for this one.
Pre-kicked.
Somewhat totalitarian, a little overtly flashy.
That's political harassment.
Thanks, Fred.
I remember making this this meme.
I mean, it being made.
This there's like a bit when I was talking
about only plays before where they're just like,
give George our lightsaber.
Make them make them the main character.
They're just like, George, stop.
Stop it.
George just having to fucking hold him back.
What am I missing with this one?
I don't know.
Oh, I think it's Chuds.
Oh, oh, I guess I could apply.
I'm a terrifying only.
Um, this is the political compass of tone.
Look, I guess, because I kind of specifically
remember all of the the woke Star Wars video
wasn't even about being woke.
Also, it's very pixelated.
Yeah, he thinks that like he definitely doesn't
use it in the context of what it normally is used for.
He's a fascinating enigma, to the least.
Just a good old fashioned Photoshop here.
This is your mind on daily.
One that arguably is.
That's not a bad job.
Okay, yeah.
Oh, yeah, Matt, when the when the vote
will have to see what he has to say another time.
Oh, yeah.
This is tonal does not like sidelined again.
Hooked carrots.
Fuck.
Hooked carrots.
Like when that happened, you guys were like, whoa.
Maybe it's just rare to see such passion.
Yeah.
The daily to the dead speak.
The world has made a mysterious broadcast,
a threat of revenge and a sinister voice of the late.
He told Hitler the message comes directly from the unknown
regions of the Antarctic land.
It was broadcast to Fortnite with an army of thousands
of Emperor penguins and die glock.
Gloke.
I don't actually know.
The message reads probably.
At last, the work of generations is complete.
The Great Era is corrected.
The day of victory is at hand.
Dave revenge the day of the right and threat was easily
defeated by a person on Twitter after some problematic tweets
resurface and after some kid reported his epic
store account, Emperor penguins revolved, revolted.
Outraged by the now resurfaced tweets quoting,
we couldn't believe that he liked pineapple on pizza with
his plans thwarted.
You know, Spencer's days arguing on Twitter and sending
letters to Epic Games trying to get his account back.
Good rack.
Is it scientifically possible to create a good rack?
The answer at the moment is no.
Well, that's disappointing.
Yeah, I don't know if I I don't know if I agree with that at all.
What a tepid consensus.
Yeah.
Um, but I guess that's what we'll have to accept from now.
I think this one deserves to be reposted.
Appreciate the art.
It's amazing.
I want that to bring my bedroom hanging over my bed.
So I quit sitting on a cliff and.
He's slowly falling just to drop.
I need that milk.
It's a spooky drawing of me like the acne scars on his face.
And those teeth when you get them caught into each other,
it's gonna be awkward.
But I don't think you're basically just intellectual
Slenderman.
Yeah, does Slenderman have the gas mask?
No, which means he's really just a copy of me, a bad copy.
That's how that works.
That's true.
Yeah, this is a rendition of Chud Skywalker.
I'm Chud Skywalker.
Chud is an awfully large sounding.
Look at that light.
My mom gave me this light.
Perpetually out of breath and hungry.
I don't know if you've seen this ranks.
It's suggestive.
It's terrifying.
Your thoughts.
What the fuck?
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
What is this?
Because he's looking ripped and right away because his fursona
would be a rhino because he's got big tits.
Oh, my God.
This twist that was actually on Rags is for affinity account.
What is this?
What is it?
Rags drew it.
I definitely didn't.
Don't you put this on me.
Hey, Ray, that looks just like Ray.
Do you like how the emperor cloak doesn't make it around his body at all?
She's just like, oh, oh, yeah, there he is.
He's surrounded by sugar crystals.
Grab some bite on them.
So these ones are going to be back in back in time now.
Those are all those are all up to date memes.
I don't know if you guys are aware, but a remarkable Republican in
chat had a debate.
It went as well as this image sort of implies.
That part was worth clipping, I think.
You know what?
Castles are for.
It was it was the silence from R2 after that.
This the pauses where he's thinking almost like for the first time, you know,
it's a brand new experience.
Wonderful.
I can't really show this one already, but it's just funny.
He got goodbye WallStream.
Then it moves into covering TLJ.
Naturally and total the memes that shad destroyed
Robocca or Republican or Game of Thrones.
Like eventually just is the thing that happens.
Yep.
Whenever I see like the red star eyes over any character, I always,
I don't know if it's just me chat, but I always think of the
Oh, my.
Yeah.
The face on the bottom.
How much he doesn't like carrots.
It just doesn't like carrots, man.
It's back.
They're cooked.
They become sentient and eat you.
It's horrifying.
Explains a lot.
This is some is the deepest Lord.
Oh, this is the guy that we covered with with with Wolf.
That is the guy's TLJ because that was his avatar.
Oh, yeah.
Darryl.
Yep.
Look at this crap.
Fucking confusing as crap.
It makes no sense.
Can I just say, by the way, because I was messaging this to mauler at the time,
that Star Wars video that narrow made was not the best.
But all of his other videos are like gold.
Like he does a lot of stuff on like Resident Evil and Zelda.
He's he's actually a very good YouTuber.
That was actually just the one video he made that was contentious.
So definitely go check him out.
He's one of my favorite YouTubers.
There you go, guys.
Confirmation from chase himself.
Hopefully we'll cover him in the future of the fap in a way that's a little more different than.
Yeah, I'd love to have him on here because he's just a very intelligent, very hardworking,
clever dude about that legal life.
Now, that's something I didn't think would pop up.
So I got another one.
I can't you know, if this isn't the actual definition, what can I do?
Well, from Longman dictionary of contemporary English
to not do something you've promised to do, such as releasing the TFA critique consistently in 2019.
I didn't know that's how they defined it, but I mean, yeah.
Who is Bill Beto Bag of Roadie?
Wow, that's the Bilbo bag and stuff that goes back to like.
Before the proto episode.
That's like, yeah, the the proto episode.
I like the chat being a character in this again.
I always like this.
I enjoy having the chat as a character, always present, always watching, always commenting.
I can't help but feel like Jay is hiding something into that hat.
Oh, yeah.
This is interesting.
We got lawful good being the dawn naturally.
Lawful evil being TRO.
All right.
Yeah, I suppose I can fake lawful neutral being ER.
How do you feel about that?
Moral neutral.
Feels neutral.
Um, I sort of see that.
True neutral being James James more.
All right.
Neutral good being me and chaotic.
Good being ranks.
I'm okay with this.
Yeah, I think that's pretty nifty.
Neutral evils, but they bad.
I think that's the most fitting of all of them is neutral evil.
The auto neutral.
Yeah, yeah.
Interesting selection.
How many more fucking effects do I have to get on before you fuckers include me in some fan art?
Um, 17 more.
Sorry.
Pull that off.
Sorry.
It's not.
Just remember, there's more.
There's more E fat memes of remarkable Republican than you.
This might not be a bad thing.
Balance of the Jedi.
That's a good one.
I like that.
Look at all the look at all.
There's Bilbo there.
There's there's stinky or whatever it is from the Star Wars holiday special.
There's another one.
The Madea rebellion.
Holy shit.
Jar Jar Madea rebellion.
diabetes got the force.
Oh man.
These are awesome.
Yeah, man.
Off notch work.
I want to see these movies.
Oh, we got one more as well.
The order of the Jedi alternative.
Perhaps we both got a four.
They gave an eye patch.
Jeb is front and center as he should be.
Yes.
Can we address that movie cinema?
Robert looks like a thumb, like just a giant thumb.
Well, he and Monday, Matt both kind of look like thumbs.
Interesting.
True.
Thumb life.
Don't underrate it.
That thumb life.
Hashtag thumb life.
Oh, so this was about so R2 as he's lovingly called said that if people have multiple
interpretations of chivalry, he was like, what are they postmodernist nights?
Which was a riot to listen to.
Yeah, Shad was like me at that moment.
It was like, wait, what?
It's together.
That was that one was out of left field, man.
So Galahad wishes to make himself available to your highness's nightly order, but being
a postmodern night, he must first present a list of concerns.
And one will nights of non-Christian religions be permitted in your highness's service?
Well, nights who do not find the Holy Grail receive a consolation prize.
Three, what efforts will be made to address the lopsided gender balance of this order?
Well, will there be a quota of dabsles rescued to princes rescued for nights?
Will the king support environmentally sustainable farming among his serfs as the
crowd investigated the problems of a sword from pond based rulership model
and compared to decentralized government policy?
Seven, have you convinced considered that our nights of ours might not empower us
beat the Mongols in an open battle?
Oh, yeah, that came up as well.
Are those children or dwarves serving you food in the middle of the table?
Is this the result of an outreach program for the employment of little people in your kingdom?
Well, this will happens when you let the postmodernist nights in.
So again, all these rules.
Oh, hey, we got movie Bob memes, even though it's not these are from a different episode.
Yay.
Hey, he has an odd face.
He really does.
It doesn't help that you never see his eyes.
Did we not?
Oh, is he always with shades?
I haven't actually thought about that.
Yeah, he's like fucking Albert Wesker.
Like you knock him off.
It's just going to be like red glow.
Yeah, that poster we were just looking at the one we say he looks at thumb.
That's probably that's where he's like his eyes.
If a mere mortal could gaze upon his face, it blind us.
Yeah, he's doing it for our protection.
So generous.
He is a generous God.
Yeah, I haven't seen Rango.
So this is referencing, right?
Rango is great.
Yeah, I hear good things.
I hear good things.
But TLJ defend does say rise of skywalker shit, then we're helping.
They're like, wait, what movie Bob over there.
It's like, this rope's confusing.
Could mean a pay follower of me a fighter.
You go.
What seems to be the problem?
The dog is a fighter.
If you're a follower of me, a fighter, you go, what seems to be the problem?
The dog is a false God.
That you have to punch the paper.
Wait, I'm sorry.
Maybe I'm dumb.
What is Pape?
Pape is the bizarro essentially.
Oh, okay.
Oh, my God.
It's terrifying.
Oh, that is terrifying.
How is one of them okay?
Scared.
Yeah.
I've got to say, if Jay was in the like, he is in the upper right.
I'd like Jay a lot more.
This is a series of images representing chat kicking Jay.
Surely going to be very happy to see it.
His face looks weird.
Hitler false ghost explained that it's got six million views.
I mean, by hierarchy.
Why is there a Patreon symbol there as well?
What's the old symbol?
Actually, they updated it.
Hitler's ghost explain.
It's just so funny.
And the directors of Star Trek.
Shark bitch and lava head.
Smaller heroes just as retarded.
Oh,
we could all learn a thing or two from Hitler.
Hitler had some ideas.
Yeah.
Jay is in chat, reacting to the cat titties meme with confusion.
I feel like he should understand it immediately.
You don't know.
Oh, God, all your brother is awesome.
It's an abstract.
It's an abstract.
1.2 billion likes.
Wasn't that an old pitbull tweet?
Possibly.
I don't know.
I really know where all of this comes from.
Which chance that his nine year old felt like they didn't understand how this worked.
When a nine year old is calling out your bullshit.
Perfectly balanced.
It's pretty crazy.
12,000, 1200 votes even.
How much money are we on how to get the movie Bob domain?
I don't know.
There's not an active counter for like the one dollars.
But how much how much is it posted?
500.
I'm sure we can get there.
Yeah.
No story ever started with a glass of milk.
What do you feel?
How does Jay feel about that?
Geez.
There's no reason not to milk.
I know this.
If we do get the movie Bob domain, what will we use it for?
Like the website redirect?
Oh, that's actually I would rather just give the 500 to.
You have to be like as a donation instead of fucking.
Yeah, that makes more sense, right?
I'd be down with that.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, sure.
Maybe if we raise a thousand, we can do both.
Oh, my God.
The FAP Emmy and movie Bob dot com.
Yeah.
Can you imagine?
This is some.
No one man should have all that power.
Toot sandwich versus.
Giant douche.
That's it, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kind of hard to figure out which one is the worst.
I feel like we had a couple of look at this graph memes,
but I'm not going to get tired of them.
That's a good news of Kylo's fucking soggy stage.
I love democracy.
Soggy Kylo.
What is this?
She's the person.
What is happening here?
Oh, my God.
Look at you.
Hey, what happened?
We could go away.
Make it go away.
Hey, look at yourself.
Died for our sin sins.
Oh, I just saw the sin sins.
Bless you.
Or sin sins.
The best.
Is this a real comic?
I think so.
Sure.
They just put Patrick Wills' brown table on it
because oh, my God.
But OK, yeah.
But yes, very, very good.
Very accurate.
Oh, look.
We've got even more balanced memes.
That's just a shoot, unfortunately.
Yeah, here's the original.
Just found it.
Oh, she just says I'm shy.
It says I'm right.
Oh, right.
Right.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, I can.
Yeah, it's pretty much.
Yeah, it's hard.
Just in a graph.
Yes, that graph did hurt.
Yes, it did.
See the balance memes?
I can't get enough.
That high res render of his face smiling.
He looks like what Bubba would be in prison,
you know, very happy to see you.
This is unconscionable.
I don't know how we have people snap this shot, but.
He's taking in stride, though.
Yeah, he's he knew he needed it.
He's a champ.
The density of my plot protects me.
I need between one and two weeks at the fastest.
OK, to make this next video.
All right, guys.
All right.
I'm going to keep getting questions about it.
I know it.
I like this.
I'm going to keep getting questions about it.
I know it.
I like this meme.
Beguidius would be ashamed of our society.
Change my life.
I do not disagree.
I love the way his name is pronounced Beguidius.
Beguidius.
Ryan made the worst stars movie JJ.
Allow us to enter.
He really did try it out.
Do him.
He really did.
He gave it his all.
I sure as hell get that idea.
You're making the plot of a previous movie.
See, and I I stand by.
I don't know that there's any Star Wars movie
that has the same plot as Rise of Skywalker's insane plot.
Oh, my God.
Wait, I want to ask.
I get this.
Was that the only person that.
It's the room.
Was I the only person that thought
that Ray looked like exceptionally more
dolled up in this movie than she did in the prior movies.
Wait, who?
Sorry.
Ray, she looked a little bit more dolled up.
Like her face looks a lot more bare in the two previous movies.
Maybe just my imagination.
I guess I'd have to see comparisons, but I don't remember really.
I definitely know it's a lot more like glamour shows.
And yes, he did, Bob.
Talked about groups of the movie Blob 2019.
Why see the amount of F that would have got into making that creature?
It was barely in the film.
It was like a throwaway gag.
It's just weird.
It's like, all right.
I mean, with Disney's budget, like who the fuck.
And what's it going to do?
It doesn't have any fucking arms.
It has telekinesis rags.
It uses the force.
Oh my God.
Can someone translate this?
Chase, you can do it.
Condo dioda just means I'm Dio.
Gosh, that's all disgusting.
Or like it was me, Dio.
One of the two.
Look at the way the skywalk is scribbled on.
Sad as town.
That's what happens when there's a fucking papers, please.
Yes, absolutely.
Yeah, that's where.
Oh, I get it.
This is the teeth, isn't it?
So you can tell they wrote Skywalker on that previous
meme with like a mouse.
I don't want to make of this.
This face in the last panel.
No.
I am going to have a reference to Sammy in my next video.
You fricking fricks.
You fricking fricks.
He looks like Edna Mode from Incredibles.
He does.
I don't know.
So Jar Jar is attacking Claude.
Then he can't decide why.
But ultimately, do we need to know why?
No, we don't.
His Claude is very powerful.
Well, you find another meme on Airmine.
Just take someone else's story.
Think about it.
It's all the JoJo fans in chat.
Am I a bad person for being the most upset about Iggy
at the end of part three?
You probably are.
Yeah, I probably am.
Iggy is a dog character.
Oh, sounds nice.
Strongest character in the entire show.
Okay, we need some deciphering here.
Oh, it was a reference to how they don't know which way is down.
I just see a swastika.
Well, I guess it's like he does.
He's trying to signal with directions.
Like on a bicycle, you signal directions,
but they're clearly confused as to what the directions are.
And they like so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This meme again.
But different, different words.
I'm not having original idea.
What's the original format of that meme?
I'm really curious.
Gee, forced diet need you, do not.
Ketamine, you must find.
What is this a reference to?
We've got too many memes now.
It's really hard to catalog and understand them.
Ketamine, like horse tranquilizer.
There's going to be context for this in one of the 12 hour streams.
I feel my brain growing by the minute every time I see one.
Again, scratch my ass, Kylie.
If you don't, the Joker will win.
Like what?
That's an old meme.
Surrealist memes.
Who are at?
It's so deep and meaningful.
Really quickly.
Someone did a super chat and said, tell mauler to watch Jojo.
Watch Jojo.
Oh, what are we going to do?
Are you going to kill me?
Yeah.
Right.
Yes.
Look at every picture of downward thrust.
He just looks so.
So disappointed in all of them.
He's like, this is how he would look.
Yes.
You'd be like, yes.
It looks like his mugshot kind.
It's like a Facebook executive.
You kill those carrots.
Hard to swallow pills.
The message of TROS is to kill an entire family so you can take their neighbors your own.
Not wrong.
Oh, so you know how Kylo forgives himself with his own memory.
I'm a good boy now.
Oh, was there a meme about the Emperor shitting himself and
Kylo had to do something about it?
I just don't remember.
No, Kylo.
I'm.
Shitting myself.
Change my type of.
Does it hurt?
Does it hurt?
Where does it hurt meme come from?
That's not the present for that.
That was the Star Wars leak stream.
You know, this isn't specific necessarily, but it still works just fine.
Also, I love I love that previous.
The does it hurt image that was drawn of you more.
That's a nice, very angular version of your avatar.
I believe that's actually in the selection, the original version.
So we'll get to that.
We're halfway through.
It's the worst timeline that we live in.
Oh, no, Jar Jar.
He's his children.
Oh, my God.
Okay, there definitely was memes about Palpatine pooping.
What in the world?
The Shutterstock sells it.
Batman, what about themes of method artists?
Shut up, you bats.
Fereggy tooth sharpener.
Is that like a Star Trek thing, then?
Yeah.
Well, there you go.
Raise a Trekkie.
That image of her with the teeth.
Is that like based on something?
It's a movie movie.
It's like a visual.
I don't know what to make of that one.
Shout out.
I need the force.
So I think this is some kind of strange amalgamation of when I was discussing the Digimon theme
and the Isle of Man flag.
I don't know what else.
Horrible.
Terrifying.
Imagine that walking at you.
Sorry, you can't keep doing this, but which way is down?
Was there a meme about how they couldn't poop because they didn't know which way was down?
What's going on here?
Watching looking at EFAT memes after the fact is like deciphering glyphs.
Don't really know what the conversation could have definitely been.
Oh yeah, because Shad was like, it wouldn't work because she actually uses the double-ended
lightsaber flip function to lock an enemy lightsaber into it.
There's something Shad had actually talked about.
Subjectivity Slayer.
Man, look at all those sponsorships.
You got Shad, Boxes, CJ, Jeb,
Brigidious, Star Wars.
Oh, they have the original Papyrus for Brigidious as well.
Very nice.
Back Daniels there.
Themes.
Her rags look at Women Apex Homo Epic.
Podcasts.
You got the tally shot as well.
Big Brigidious and Papyrus one.
I'm not sure if you already said that.
That's the way it was originally spelled.
That's its original form.
That is the correct way to spell the Brigidious.
The toxic brood stopping bastards from getting to their themes.
So desperate.
In Jeb, we trust.
I would buy the shit out of these coins.
Please clap.
Yeah, that's the original version, Chase.
That's how she looks in the movie.
I may have gone too far.
I don't remember seeing that in the movie.
It's when she, she's getting the wayfinder in the fucking Palpatine's bathroom and she just
turns up and has a force vision.
And then she's like, it's really weird.
Scary Bilbo teeth.
I want, ironically, ironically, I want a Jeb coin like that.
Truth is, it was all Reylo from the start.
That's a good meme.
We needed this for a scary Bilbo teeth.
Terrifying.
That part of the fucking, the movie scared the shit out of me.
Yeah, man.
He reacted that way to the ring.
Yeah.
Was the see it dude originally part of the movie poster?
The what dude, sorry.
At the underneath her face.
It's a see it dude, like as a pun.
Oh shit.
I don't know.
Maybe.
Well, there should be a comma after it.
So I don't know.
Thinking emoji.
Sith our friend, not food.
I will consume your essence.
My shooting at Ray or my shoes.
What's the name of that fucking old, like that old clay fucking
like toy or not clay toy, but he had like the squishy stretch.
Armstrong.
Yeah.
Why do you have stretch Armstrong?
There's no limits.
Jokers just get the fuck out of there.
Taking the muffins very literally.
I know we need it to find the emperor, but I haven't had breakfast.
Oh my goodness.
That you I proceed with caution to this one.
Oh my god.
If anyone dismisses this whole Efap is like, why did I spend eight
plus hours watching your, just take a screenshot of Bob Swolo.
And just us.
Yeah.
That's terrifying.
Would want to run into Bob Swolo in a dark alley.
Look at his tits.
10,000 deaths.
Star destroyers literally just the fucking ground down this box.
You have completely of other can even remove Getty images.
They just kept it in.
That adds substance to the beam.
Oh yeah.
There's like a young Admiral Akbar fish thing in the movie.
It's like, Oh, Hey.
Yeah.
I saw that.
It freaked me out.
Do you think it's like him being like Akbar is alive in spirit still?
Yeah, but he's dead for reals.
Who shot first?
I guess it'd be JJ.
No, it was Ryan who shot first.
Really though.
I mean, post-awakens.
Well, I mean, if it's between the two of them,
it would be JJ.
But JJ wasn't responding to anything Ryan did with his first movie.
He still shot first.
He still shit.
No, did Ryan not like shit all over JJ?
I don't know.
They're both crap.
It's JJ shot.
Ryan shot back.
JJ shot again.
And they both missed each other.
They just hit Star Wars over and over again.
Yep.
What is that last picture of?
Is that him getting blown away by the lightning?
Oh, is that actually from the movie?
Because lightning explosion looks like it.
Yeah, his skin was like blurping off and stuff.
And he just kept going.
I want to add very quickly.
Very quickly.
ER, was there ever an idea you had for a video
that you'd thought about pulling it off
that it would just be too long and difficult to pull off
or too exhausting to edit?
Yeah, the one I'm doing right now.
Always.
Science Gate.
I've been working on it for about a year.
Jeez.
That sounds like an incredible case of burnout.
It's going to be an incredible video once it's done
because you've been working on it for years.
Well, why not both?
Why'd you have to be so negative, Chase?
Jesus.
Five, you met me.
Like it was just a car crash and both, essentially.
But the characters are upset at one and not at the other.
I'm glad Rage Comics died an abrupt death.
The two images are going to wobble on coupled in infamy.
This picture's scary.
I can't remember why this is a thing, but it is.
Dammit, Hitler.
You spoke to me.
I was going to say, this is Hitler.
I'm a spy.
It's such an awkward moment in the movie.
I am a spy.
I am the spy.
I am the spy.
He just turns around so earnestly and says it.
I'm a spy.
He's like, oh.
After that scene, he was like nailed.
Yeah, Amy.
You never would have thought that we'd be getting
to fundamentals like this.
Like, oh, so stupid.
They don't even know which way is up.
You'd be like, that's dumb.
Like, no, no, no, no, no.
Question, actually, the Jedi mind trick that they use,
where they're just like, oh, thank goodness you're here.
Do they utilize that often?
Not often enough, but pretty often.
It's pretty fun.
I thought the most consistent character is going to be like
an inanimate object, like that door over there.
What's his name?
My family name is Revolving, but I took my husband's name
after I married him.
He was called John.
Is that Buck?
Buck?
Buck?
Beck?
Bruce, though some people make fun of me for being called.
Backdoor?
Backdoor.
I remember that.
That was funny.
Eekdaw.
I was like, this is the character's inanimate object.
I love you, but make your meme higher than 200 pixels.
Thank you.
This might not have been the fault.
Maybe this is something.
They might have sent a.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My family name is Revolving, but I took my husband's name
after I married him.
He was called John Back.
There are some people make fun of me for being called Backdoor.
I rather like it.
And ever since John died when he was blown up with the first
Death Star, it's all I have left to remind me of him.
Yeah.
Boogie, boogie images, cursed images.
I am a Skywalker.
This is a Pikachu one.
Like I'm healing.
This is a bad day.
I mean, it worked out pretty well, except the force Band-Aid.
That was one of my favorite parts of it.
It's going to be in the video.
But when Shad was explaining the like everything wrong with healing
and then like his like reaching toward the end of his rant,
he's like when Kylo uses it, he just dies.
He just dies.
You couldn't talk, Luke?
Wait, what?
Oh my god, Luke.
Can we talk about this?
I mean, this works for this stream too.
The whole like irredeemable piss and becoming a good piss
and gets into whatever.
I don't know.
I like it regardless.
I said I was sorry.
Yeah, he's redeemed.
Oh, here we go.
This is more reference to the Shad one.
Yeah.
Healing time.
Ray finds it pretty easy.
Kylo though.
Straight up dies.
Nothing to worry about, man.
Nobody expects the Knights of Rand.
That must have been so frustrating for JJ to have watched this.
He was like, he didn't do anything with them.
And Ryan was like, didn't have time, buddy.
They weren't even in?
But you went to came to a fight?
Didn't have time.
He didn't have time.
Sword-like weapon.
Shad really didn't like the force healing.
Naturally.
See, even more balanced memes.
This is what I love.
I think you posted this one before.
I just didn't show it on the screen yet.
It's close to one that I posted.
Do I actually have it?
Did I actually save it to my meme folder?
Because it was funny.
I like how it's so feathered that Hitler's head is mostly gone.
Shitty video essay-tisms.
There you go, Rags.
Essentially canon.
Dore.
Thought it was character.
Dore is a new character.
Dore is a neutral character.
We'd like to help anyone get from one room to another.
I like Dore.
Yeah, Dore's my favorite.
Dore is great.
Imagine your third movie being the worst
in your trilogy.
This meme made by the revenge of the Sith gang.
More Dore memes.
The Sith gang.
Dore watching the twin suns.
Dore goes on an epic journey.
Oh, man.
We've got to set off the comic of Dore.
I'm Dore.
Dore is Skywalker.
Oh, the comparisons are getting so close.
It's starting to merge.
Oh, my gosh.
That's...
Oh, wow.
There's so many of the same picture memes.
It's a good format.
You could have put these in a whole section, the fucking...
Hooray.
The fact that that one was like,
shittily cobbled together makes it so much better.
Yeah.
Just like, layered teeth, the top teeth.
Hashtag missed opportunities.
Flexing.
Faced Claude.
I want to see literally anyone holding a fucking lightsaber
and flexing at the same time.
You're a little McClunky thing.
That's so weird.
It's like, Rito just says McClunky in the streamable,
available version of episode four now.
Apparently, that's a Lucas change.
I don't know.
Okay.
Says McClunky before Han shoots him.
I don't know what to say.
McClunky.
Also, this is terrifying.
Oh, my God.
That is fucking terrifying.
He's a Christmas horrifying gremlin.
Oh, that's wholesome.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I love how this is...
I'm coming to give you your presents now.
Like, no, not in the bag.
Look how his veins are in the bag.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not creepy.
It's a part of him though.
The bag just won with him.
No, I don't want your presents.
And see, you want to clean your eyes.
You want to bleach them from that.
So you see this, and you're like, oh.
Oh.
But that's just a picture of a movie, Bob.
Again.
It's...
We can improve it with this.
What does the Emperor mean?
You need to play Fortnite to know.
What does the Emperor mean?
So I just love the memes,
whether they're competing to make the worst Star Wars films.
Like, mine's worst.
Why it is?
I just love that there's no picture of either of them
that doesn't have like a shit eating media grin.
Go keep that smile up.
Emperor Palpatine, how are you life?
Fortnite is a pathway to many abilities.
I'm considered unnatural.
I feel like we understand entirely what this image is.
Yes.
I don't know.
Is this a reference to the worm snake thing?
I don't know.
I'm not even sure where I got this from.
I don't even really know what that is.
All right.
You know, I'm pretty sure this is an anime reference of some kind.
What is...
I don't know if you know that one.
Unlimited final solution.
Thanks to unlimited.
Is that it?
Yep.
Thought so.
Freaking nerds.
I haven't even seen it.
I just know that.
Nerd.
Cut them, massacrated my sheave.
Guys, can I get a seven and chat if we should all do a stream where
we just show mauler popular anime?
They're all going to do it because they all like it.
I know.
I just want to influence them.
I just want to see the number of pop up that I asked to have.
Their emotions because that's probably not going to happen.
They're never going to get it.
That's actually not a bad meme.
12 hours streaming.
11 barriers blocking.
10s dons are smiling.
9s sword-like weapons.
8 rhinos milking.
7 masses mingling.
6 memes are sharing.
5 votes for Jeb.
Wow.
Long men bad.
3 N words.
2 hellos to rags.
And a J that was kicked from the stream.
That was beautiful.
That was very nice.
Ready for Christmas.
Yes.
Speak images of JJ Abrams writing The Rise of Skywalker.
Had such a good idea.
Just got to write this down.
He's like, yeah, that's pretty good.
And a nice and natural meme.
Executed fab 566.
Did it went without a hitch?
They're mainstreaming now.
Oh, because of the view count.
What is it to be mainstream on a live count?
What do you reckon, guys?
What count do you have to crack in order to become viable by Disney?
That's what it means to be mainstream now.
Ah, like, I don't know.
We got to negotiate on our price.
$200,000.
I think this was.
Among our demands, our moviebob.com.
I think this is us being like,
she's like chilling out of the Jedi like, get up.
Do something like, hmm.
He's like Mace Windu.
Probably.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's probably his window.
Yeah, you're right.
I can't remember.
Did we show this already?
It's in my selection.
We colonize bars with wellies.
This is all the remarkable Republican one.
Mother's family stick.
Why are you naked?
I think because of the joke was all you need on Mars.
Like, I think Jay said you see the wellies.
He was like, I don't know what wellies are.
He didn't know the HMS Luke.
Can I just say, seeing the wolf in booties is like the most wholesome thing ever.
Yeah.
It's the cutest shit.
Good rap.
Yes.
It's how I survived the Death Star.
Real shit.
If real shit.
Disney police break against the UFAB.
Give them a few years.
Maybe one day.
I thought it'll go.
They'll have to wear Disney brand helmets.
There's a Skywalker set out to execute E5-66.
It just lined up that way.
What can I say?
Complete coincidence.
Quinkle-dinkle.
You don't have to do anything.
I like this meme.
He's a family of three, more like a family of me.
Wolf, probably.
Yeah, I guess I'm sleeping.
ER is hiding under my bed.
Rags is in his own bed too.
I guess there's some spooky noises.
I'm sorry, Efap.
Just so hungry.
Oh my gosh.
Is that supposed to be?
Why are you so muscular?
Oh wow.
I said no one comes super muscular.
You got fucking buff.
And it almost looks like you're flipping them off too.
There's a bright candle.
I'm wearing friggy slippers.
Look at Rags.
It's just your palm.
Yeah, Rags wouldn't need a leash.
Very well house trained.
Yeah, pretty loyal.
Pringy and baby drunk Yoda.
I don't know what to make of this.
Are those eyelashes?
Oh my goodness.
Get it off screen, please.
As usual, whenever we want something to clear our eyes,
movie Bob comes back up.
As the great mighty poo.
Naturally.
Do you get that reference smaller?
I do.
Conquers.
Yeah, that was a good game.
There you go.
There's the original version.
I like that a lot.
Good shit.
So sharp.
Here's another one that I have apparently lost.
I'm now going to find.
I was showing Rags it earlier.
I really like that one.
The skeleton neck.
I know how to find it because it'll be in our conversation.
I think maybe it.
Yes, it is.
All right.
Boop.
And.
I just have the great mighty poo song stuck in my head.
I am.
I really like this one.
This one is good.
What the hell?
It's actually good.
What the hell?
Look, you're upset.
Oh, I was just taking it back.
I believe this guy looking over at you.
I was going to say like we got these other characters here.
The objectivity just steaming around him.
I think it killed me watching the movie.
I'm assuming Rags went to sleep instead of watching it,
which is a natural choice to make.
I just like these other characters in the background faces.
You got like guy seems unimpressed.
Guys thinking about the movie.
Guys terrified of me.
He looks like a drawing from one of those scary stories
to tell him the dark books.
But yeah, that's the meme selection I have available today.
Hold up.
Someone drew someone actually sent me this during the stream.
Let me post it.
It was they put it on.
It was on FA.
So I think it was a thing.
It's Titan Kerberos.
Opening and little links.
Look at you.
It's pretty nifty.
You got a chat there.
Hi, Mauler.
Hi, Rans.
Hi, Jay.
Hi, Jay Wong-Wong.
Hey, Chase.
Hey, ER.
Hey, everybody.
We're talking about Star Wars.
Have a good time.
That movie's great.
We love it.
I'm so glad we could bounce right from Joker to this.
I know, right?
Just to perfectly balance.
Really good.
Really terrible.
As all things should be.
So we're about to hit the six hour mark,
which means we can now spend the other half of the stream,
both reading out super chats and catching up on old ones.
If we managed to get that far.
How's everyone feeling?
I already do that.
Doing all right.
Excellent.
I want to ask if we can briefly play this.
It's only a minute 30 and it relates to Star Wars,
including the game.
Is it copyrighted?
No, not at all.
Do you want to?
Okay.
You can find the ones together.
Yeah.
Linked the watch together as well.
I have exited from the watch together.
Oh, if you.
Oh, right.
Okay.
Uh, this is just my personality.
I just show people only plays videos and highlights.
Oh, quirky.
All right.
Yeah.
Just if everyone wants to give themselves the old jump in.
Watch this tismy video.
I never left.
That's not letting me.
It's bringing me to a room's list.
I don't actually have here.
Is doing glad I need.
I need a link to your watch together.
Is this just this just pops up as my rooms in the rooms
that I've been in.
But like rooms that are made not temporary because I know
it's the same link again.
It's just that's what I get when I'm like, copy this to invite people.
Just copy the from the bar up top.
The URL thingy.
Yeah, there was a bar.
That's not working either.
I make a new room, make a new one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because it's like it starts to load, but then it swaps me back to
my room's page with my account.
Well, yeah, I guess you might have to make another one and send me a link.
That is a new room now.
All right, I feel bad me going to do all this.
Yeah, thanks a lot, dude.
Stupid video.
I know it's all my fault.
I mean, I mean, that's funny.
It better be better be amazing.
I'm sure it will be.
I'm sure it'll be great.
Great.
No, it looks like on the second movie, too.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure this is.
Yeah, but that didn't come out.
Yeah.
Revenge of the Sith came out in 2004.
I have revenge.
Oh, shit.
But how do you think it was planned?
Is George Lucas a fucking genius?
I want to put Anakin in the second movie.
He is a genius.
I like your impression of George Lucas.
That's what he sounds like.
George, put down the Jar Jar figure.
I want to put my Jar Jar in the bathtub.
George, put the Jar Jar.
Oh, you do it better.
I don't know why I tried.
I want to play with Jar Jar.
No, no, George.
Put Jar Jar down.
Come outside and write some more Star Wars.
In the Jar Jar suit to come back.
I want Jar Jar to kill Han Solo.
I'm going to do it.
Put down the Jar Jar George.
I'm putting it in the script if you make me do that.
Putting a little gun in Jar Jar's little hand.
Is this frozen?
No.
Are you sure?
It's just them waiting on a loading screen.
I think it froze.
No, it's okay.
No, it's okay.
Jar Jar.
Please save us.
It's a Jar Jar.
Duncan's no liking outside.
Still going to be capable of copyright.
But yeah.
Listen to George Lucas impression.
Say Jar Jar is funny as fuck.
Music on Jar Jar Binks.
That was all well with it.
I like getting this.
Mildly worth it.
That's kind of like George stop.
He's like a humble servant.
What a character.
Look up Oni Plays.
Oni Plays George stop.
For the people who are asking for the link.
George stop.
All righty.
I guess that slings us right on over to the super chat section.
Yeah.
And so the way it works right now is I've got all of the ones that me and ranks have missed from.
I think there's a portion of one some from the previous episode.
Then there's a portion of ones that I've split or the ones meant for wolf and the ones meant for
well generally you have questions or whatever.
So like I said they're all getting sorted out.
I'll have more information probably on the next episode about the specifics because obviously
it's December at the end of December.
So everybody's just busy doing all kinds of things.
It's hard to settle up.
But I've got them all.
They've not lost to time.
My plan today is going to be to read through this episode's ones.
If we get to finish them, which I think we can pull off, I will then go into our over our overflow
and we will continue.
So yeah, hope everyone's excited.
I am.
I'm excited for this.
Boy, howdy, me too.
Why would someone said stream is down due to copyright issues?
Why would you say that?
You freaking me out.
Is that true?
Don't do that to me.
Making me check.
The fact that everyone out as chat seems to be fine means that we're probably okay.
Spooky.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's good.
It's gonna be fine.
All right.
Why would you scare me like that?
What's the meme?
Why do you hate fun?
Yeah.
Fun is a concept invented by the Jedi.
A little, a little animation.
Okay.
Yoda, you old sponge.
Yoda, you old sponge.
And when he says that I don't even know how to spell it about dad,
that he goes D E A.
All right.
All right.
Here we go.
Oh, and for people who like, you missed whatever particular meme.
Try the subreddit, the Twitter and the discord.
I can't promise to catch them all.
I do what I can.
I actually, I was telling Rags about this.
I had a big collection of them ready to go.
Uh, and, and plus a couple of extra ones here and there.
And I lost the extra one because they were in tabs because my computer
restarted against my will that I think that's a form of harassment.
When you guys agree, I can probably see.
It can be made.
Yeah.
So, uh, I lost a few that, um, I'm not even a hundred percent sure of
how to recover or which ones I may have lost.
So I will do what I can to keep track of all of the ones and we will get there.
Anyway, here goes, um, here's to a great stream.
Love you guys.
Thank you very much.
Hooray.
Thank you.
What's up.
Great.
Yeah, it's not even over.
The greatness is yet to come complete.
What's up.
Massives, um, we're streaming, streaming about dolls and yeah,
having a good time.
My Ewok.
Hey, look how the fat base is going to have to have to choose between what's up
by Edward, like, like goodbye.
Where was hello.
Where was the Ewok is going to have to take over it now.
I don't know.
Um, as ever coded language.
We are subtle bigotry.
This one just says hello.
So hello back.
Yeah.
Hey, hi.
Merry late Christmas.
Thank you very much.
Merry late Christmas to all and to all a happy year to come.
Right.
And that's how that works.
I think.
Yeah.
I think so.
Based on how many depictions of Maul have tentacles and tentacle light appendages.
I'm convinced Mauler is an Eldritch horror.
Please discuss.
Um, well, let's ask him.
If the baller, are you an Eldritch horror?
Well, uh, define Eldritch horror.
You know, do you identify as an Eldritch horror?
I need to understand the definition of Eldritch horror.
Does it mean I have tentacles?
If so, I guess.
What can I say?
I mean, you play bloodborne.
Eldritch weird and sinister or ghostly.
Okay.
Yeah.
So one of those a horror.
That is that.
Yeah.
Okay.
I agree to all three of those.
Damn you.
Massives.
I'm with my family visiting grandmother right now.
Can't listen to this right now.
That's all right.
It will appear on the moolah channel.
Eventually.
You can check you out with all the facts.
It'll be with the rest.
Mara Jade died for this.
Yeah.
All of the you died so that we can have those sequel movies.
It was so worth it.
Yeah.
Han Solo died for this.
And Luke and Leia.
died for this and Leia and.
Uh, I nearly said chewy.
I was like, no, no, he got resurrected.
It's fine.
Um, howdy rags.
Hey.
Oh my God.
I was just made aware of some merchandise from movie Bob.
That is needless to say horrific.
I think I will collect some more memes while I'm going through these
and then we'll have a little bit of a meme.
A meme break, if you will.
Um, a meme response.
Has anyone mentioned how stupid it is that Palpatine kept the wayfinders out there
instead of taking them back?
You know, the only ways to get to the Sith homeworld.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I think we mentioned that.
We mentioned that in our, um, I think our 66 stream.
It was brought up.
Why didn't he have people go get those things so that no one could come to Exegol?
Unless he wanted them to come to Exegol.
It's not even, there's no explanation because you know, it was really bad.
You have this universe that was essentially under the thumb of this empire.
Like, okay.
And one of the greatest weapons ever crash landed on some of these different planets.
Let's just assume, let's be generous.
Just a couple of different plants and it, yeah, it makes sense that it's crashed.
Fine.
Whatever.
So wouldn't a lot of people be like, man, we should plunder the shit out of the, uh,
the fallen death star.
We should go in there and then you go up to the empress room and you're like, oh my god,
let's have a look around.
There's some stuff here we can take.
And then this door opens and you're like, whoa, this go inside.
You find this weird black triangle thing and you're like, what is this?
And you plug it into your computer and you go, oh my God, it's taking me to Exegol.
Like someone could easily accidentally just find it when all their goal was
was to just have a look around some ruins.
Well, no, they wouldn't be able to get through the tism cancer space cancer field.
No, the way finder puts them through it.
Don't know.
Oh, it does.
All right.
Well, maybe Palpatine's plan all along was to have our heroes discover them on Exegol
so that he could defeat them there because he's known for traps.
So Exegol was like a trap in a way that I can't elaborate on, but it was a trap of a kind.
I just like to think that he always assumed Kylo would be the one to find it for some reason.
And then he he like sees someone come in.
He's like, oh, who is it?
And it's just like some some guy, like really average looking dude who's just like, hey,
we can just force lightning him out of the air.
Oh, yeah, it wouldn't be a problem for Palpatine.
I just don't know why he's letting that be the case.
Why not just go get him?
And then you could specifically hand it to Kylo.
I mean, Kylo was there on Exegol.
So I guess his plan panned out like it should have lucky.
I guess the context we're missing is Palpatine got in his head and he was like,
go to Mustafar by by the then you find out that the reason he left them out there was
in case he one day wanted to get people to come to Exegol.
But at that point, you should be like, why not?
There's lots of why nots that I need to ask.
I don't see how to Star Destroyer gets through the space cancer.
I really don't.
That thing gets fucked up by the space cancer every time.
There's no way way finder or not.
Why and why don't you just hyperspace into the past it or can you?
Or I guess you can't anymore.
They change that.
How do the big old ships get through there?
Exactly.
It's not going to happen.
If they say, well, you could just hyperspace around the base cancer.
I just be like, oh, fuck off.
What the hell is this dumb?
It hurts all of the brain really dumb.
What would you do for a Klondike bar?
Can't buy it.
I can't buy it.
Oh, I'd ask politely.
Yeah, I wouldn't.
There's not many things I would do because I don't really care about them.
That's just, you know, I know the meme, but I just I'm sorry.
What would you do for a Klondike bar?
Pull him fat jumbo.
Also, I love how Disney basically stole a ton from the EU after deleting it.
Yeah, just bad photocopies.
A lot of it.
A lot of the ideas.
When I watched episode nine, my theater was full and most of them
clapped when the credits started.
The big tism is spreading too much.
Well, hopefully they all had fun.
Hopefully.
Yeah, that's what's important is that I had fun.
You wouldn't want to not have fun.
Why do people love The Witcher show so much?
At best, it's mediocre.
What's one thing on our list?
We got to see Mauler.
Well, see, my I mean, if you want to watch it like with me or whatever, I'm up for that.
But I don't really care about it at all.
I have no investment in Witcher, but I'll watch it out of curiosity, I suppose.
But I'm kind of in that position.
I know that people want us to talk about it a bit, I guess.
But I've heard mixed things.
I have heard that it's OK.
I don't think I've heard anyone describe it as terrible.
So there's that.
Yeah.
Hi, Nazi Senpai.
That must be referencing.
May I serve you a glass of bleach?
Oh, yes.
Paulin, please.
D.L.J. was worse than Trost, but less contrived.
I think I can agree with that, I think.
This is the discussion of the decades, which is maybe worse.
The amount of luck in the script of The Rise of Skywalker challenges that of like any other
mainstream movie that's very luck based.
I don't know that the Force Awakens used to be probably the title holder of like the most
luck based script.
But after The Rise of Skywalker, like whoof.
So many things just work out the way that they do, despite all odds.
And then they do it to themselves in the thing as well.
Like, damn, you bumped into a a planet celebrating the thing once every 42 years.
How unlucky.
But again, I know it's a reference, but that doesn't make it not ridiculous.
So what happens in the movie?
And then the other one is the whole like, hold over.
What in a million?
It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, lucky.
And these are two.
Also, I would say would tell us why it's one in a million, you know.
If you would just, you know what?
That's so funny to think about.
Do you remember that clip we showed with the guy saying, like, yeah, it makes sense in law
that it can totally work out that way.
Did JJ ask that same guy if it's possible?
Why did he say it was possible?
He goes, well, you see, you already got half of my statement.
I said, yes, it's possible, but extremely unlikely.
Like, what in a million?
JJ's like, oh, OK.
Because one of them had just be like, how do you fuck it up?
Like, how doesn't it work?
Yeah, it actually seems really simple.
And he just made it.
That's what I mean.
He took something of Ryan's and people see that as a retcon, right?
I don't I don't disagree with that.
All I'm highlighting is like, it's been made worse instead of improved because now it's like.
Something that she at least for that film, I guess it improves it for other films.
To a degree, the fact that it's an impossibly hard move to do or whatever.
But I don't know.
Also stupid.
Hmm, is it?
It is the day one out of one shot.
That's what we all thought it was.
Apparently not.
Yeah, because it looks like you just hyperspace ram something that
kind of seems really hard to fuck up.
First off, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Secondly, if they make more Star Wars movies after this abortion,
they should be prequels, hopefully about Darth Bane.
So whenever someone says I want them to do this next,
I'd be like, you do get that they destroy everything they touch, right?
I would have thought you wanted to stay away from things you like.
I don't want them anywhere near Star Wars.
Yeah, it's like, what's the next Star Wars movie they should make?
You just go.
Just don't.
You had you had four or five, six chances.
Yeah, you know, and the best you came out with was like a movie that was like.
Efap more like a crap JK.
I love this podcast to death.
Please don't bad.
Oh, got him.
He asked not to be banned, so I guess I won't.
But next, you know, making jokes like that.
Dangerous, dangerous to my favorite long man and also Hi Wags.
Hello.
Oh, I was zero.
All right.
Yeah, makes sense.
All billion dollars, Star Wars plus one point five billion budgets
plus five hundred million ads at least equals six billion dollars.
Box office around five billion.
It sure is a good thing.
Merch sales haven't fallen off a cliff.
I guess that's in reference to how much like they've probably made a profit
off of Star Wars as of this point, but they could have made
so much more is all I would have to say.
So much more if people gave more of a shit gave a shit.
Why do people like Star Wars?
It is objectively a bad film franchise with only three good movies out of 12,
one through nine, Solo, Rogue One and Clone Wars animated.
People are clinging on to the OT forever.
That's how powerfully good those films were in terms of like where they came out.
Cultural significance.
Just your quality.
And you see this to lesser degrees with other stuff like Terminator and Predator
and Alien all have the same thing going on.
It's like why do people still like these films?
They're so crap.
And it's like, well, because the originals were so fucking good.
And those are all dead, basically.
Yep.
Everything keeps dying.
Drask Park just keeps on going.
Then again, that's still that's the interesting thing between all these examples.
Some of them make loads of money.
Some of them make any fucking money.
Some of them are like 50 50.
It's it's a whole selection.
Different because like I know the guy who made Dark Fate
was like didn't get why that film flopped.
It's just like and as much as you can highlight like, oh, well, you fucked up the franchise.
It's like, yeah, but you know, TLJ made buddy like, well,
perhaps it's a little more complicated than all of that.
Why still talking about Christmas?
New Year's is coming out.
Very true.
2020 is coming out.
Thanks for the Watchmen review.
It's the only good thing to come out of that garbage show.
You're welcome.
Please discuss the similarities between Austin Powers, Dr.
Evil and the reincarnated Emperor Palpatine.
Both clones both make silly demands, etc.
Dr. Evil is a clone.
Do you mean he well, he has a clone made.
Being mini me, but he himself is not a clone, right?
I guess it's depending on whether or not you think the emperor in the Death Star in
episode six was a clone or not, which is, I guess, to be interpreted at this point.
Oh, what's your take?
That's so crazy.
Well, I guess he would have to be a clone.
Right?
Because he wouldn't be able to survive the explosion.
I would hope so.
But what if he did because he put himself in a Sith Force bubble?
See, that's what I was originally thinking.
But now that the clone stuff's being brought in, that makes infinitely more sense.
In a really retarded kind of way.
Yeah, because it still fucks up Atticans.
Even kill the real one, you idiot.
He's like, oh, then just what was the Emperor doing this whole time?
And then why does his clone body look all tismy or is it the
that is his original body and has been since the beginning?
Yeah, that'd be stupid.
Then again, he was growing Snoke's to be all fucking fucked up.
I feel like the only reason that's there is because JG just didn't want to leave
Snoke being not explained at all.
He was like, he was a clone.
Fuck off.
I figured that's the only reason for it, because like I lost interest in knowing
what Snoke was even up.
But if there was no reference to Snoke whatsoever in Rise of Skywalker,
I probably wouldn't have given a shit.
I was just we would I would have been like, so what was Snoke?
I guess we'll never find out.
OK, but we guess Ryan that was in Ryan's ballpark and he just didn't do anything with it.
But instead we've got he was a clone made by Palpatine.
He's like, hmm.
All right.
How about that?
And that leaves the door open for us so he can make clones.
Do you make a clone of himself and put it in the Death Star?
It's like I think he deliberately avoided tried to explain any of that.
But the comparisons to Doctor Evil affair in terms of the, you know,
the writing like also powers trying to make jokes while this film is trying to be serious.
And yet they turn out similar.
I don't know.
Guys, maybe he is trying to be serious.
That's depressing.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Here's the money.
What's your premium snap?
Cheers.
My premium snap.
As in premium Snapchat?
I don't know.
I don't know what a premium Snapchat is.
I'm assuming you don't have Snapchat.
A joke.
I don't have like you have a there's a lot of like lewd models that will like have you
pay extra money to like access the premium Snapchat where they like send nudes essentially.
So the mean is that you're you're a whore.
All right.
Oh, well, well, I don't have a premium Snapchat.
So if you're looking for me to send you nudes.
Oh, I guess I should use this to say that if there is anyone out there claiming to be
my Snapchat, it's not actually me.
Sorry.
There you go.
I'm sorry.
Looking forward to your rage on TROS and F for Anakin getting his lightsaber buried
in his sworn enemy sand.
Yep.
And yes, the video is being created as we well, not necessarily as we speak right now,
but other times you will be speaking is a good chance.
I will be working on it.
That's yeah.
How's that for crazy?
You know, more well, you know, when is the weeb efap?
No, me and Rags will have to watch like an anime just to have a weeb efap.
You must have me included.
Just avatar guide you.
Avatar.
What is a Chris Stuckman efap?
Why?
I'm waiting for that.
Well, we did the we looked at a short film.
We did that.
Did you did you see a short film?
Oh, wait, the one the one I showed you.
The it was called Notes from Melanie is what I'm talking about.
Oh, no, no, no.
Because we we did a video on that.
Yeah, I saw that one.
It was it was interesting.
They the least looking forward to his other endeavors.
Um, but yeah, Chris Stuckman efap.
I don't know.
We would have to what video of his could we even cover?
Well, I did show you that other short film he did when he was when he was so obviously
emulating Ryan Gosling in Drive.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I think of like, but what like, like, like review stuff rather than one of those
sorts of self made sort of because like this we might we could do that for like an efap
mini sometimes.
Not a terrible idea.
You know what sucks is it's been like a long, like two, three weeks now since we recorded
the a wrinkle in time with with J long bone.
That's still not going to be out for like three months, probably.
Oh, the Doom efap, though, has been clean for two weeks now.
It passed that.
So I'm going to try and put that out soon, possibly in January, and we'll have to see
if you can make it finally through copyright permanently.
And if that one does, then fellowship can come out soon after rags.
Finally, the fellowship of the ring.
Yay, finally.
I was saying a wolf like it's been so long since I've seen that one now that I could
watch it again and it would be fresh.
Like, even though I've watched it before and I edited it,
like, it's just like that's how fucking long it's taken to get it done.
We're in a weird world, to tell you the least.
Get Jay on.
I want to see him kicked.
Oh, my.
I agree.
This one says, yeah, speak the fuck up, you weeb.
Love you all.
Watch Avatar and I'm going to eventually.
That's the one with that chick, right?
Yes, I know that the chick Cora.
She's very intelligent and powerful.
Oh, that's what I need, because now that there's going to be no more Ray,
I need to have Cora take her place.
Absolutely.
Correct.
Um, if you require an escape launch of some kind, Jay Longwood,
would you like to talk about your channel for a little bit before you have to head out?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, my channel's Jay Longbow.
You know, I do reviews and like I said before, right now I'm doing fat woman reactions.
Just got done with one for the crisis on Infinite Earth.
Fuck it.
Oh, God, it's so funny.
I miss that one already on Earth.
Um, um, mash up or whatever the fuck you want to call it,
but it's on hiatus.
So I'm like doing reactions for other stuff, movies and stuff.
I have a Christmas movie reaction I'm coming out with and I'm still doing that.
Finn, uh, like how Disney Star Wars fucked up.
Then I'm still doing a video on that working on that.
Um, and just expect a lot of stuff for me.
Like I said, reviews and reactions, stuff, other stuff about movies, such.
All right.
Well, yeah, there's plenty of things to choose from.
Go and check it out.
It's a channel has been linked in the, in the chat and it's in the description.
Thank you very much for hanging out with us.
Hope you had some fun.
Yes.
Always a delight.
Yes.
I will miss you.
Goodbye.
Might you walk.
Bye guys.
Bye.
Bye everybody.
Bye bye bye.
Thoughts of Dash bullshit being a hot black woman.
I well, I concur.
I enjoy the hot black rendition of Dash bullshit.
Uh, he makes it fine.
Beautiful.
I don't know if he knows about this, but yeah, I'm happy about it.
Yeah, absolutely.
Uh, Knives Out was quite good.
It was in many ways the opposite of TLJ.
That being said, it's disheartening to know that a filmmaker you admire
would deem you a scumbag for divergent ideological views.
Yeah.
Well, that's Hollywood for you.
And we are going to check out Knives Out.
I don't know how long it'll be before it's available,
but we intend to check it out with Critical Drinker.
It's going to be fun.
It's honestly, you're saying that's Hollywood.
It's like that with voice actors too.
Like as, as a voice actor, I try to like follow a big influential
like voice actor people and all of them are just like fucking drunk.
And I'm just like, okay.
All of them just have like the exact identical like political stances.
And I'm just like, kind of want to hear your inspiration.
That's okay.
I'm sure you could really flush out that opinion.
I'm sure that you have.
All right.
Yeah.
Mindfura, Jay Longbone, and Chase.
This'll be great.
Wow.
It didn't include ER in that.
They were referencing Weekend Warrior, obviously.
That's pretty sad.
Breeding Massives.
Cowboy Bebop is best.
That is all.
Also high.
Jeb Zee Nichols.
Jeb Zee Nichols.
Cowboy Bebop is good, but I would say Monster is better.
What's the best one, Chase?
What is the best one?
Best anime ever.
Yeah.
If we'll do a wrong answer.
The troll in me wants to say no game, no life.
The pretty good anime overall.
But I don't know.
I'm going to have to pass it over to...
Yeah, I believe we're asking you, Chase.
Don't try.
I didn't hear the answer.
No, you can't know it until you've answered.
Oh, okay.
Best anime.
Yeah, I'm just going to go with Monster.
All right.
It's not a bad choice to be honest.
Monster versus Steins Gate, then.
Steins Gate is good, but it takes fucking eight episodes to get to the real hook.
So it is good, but it just fucking...
For the longest time, there's a character in there that's a really bulky guy with glasses
and hat hair.
And for the longest time, I would refer to him as Spaz Kid, the hentai artist.
Yeah, so I always think about that.
Who's the best hentai artist?
No wrong answers.
Norosuko is up there.
Norosuko?
Norosuko.
N-O-R-A-S-U-K-O.
I just really like their style.
Dives is pretty good.
D-I-I-V-E-S.
I'm going to generate if you didn't piece that together yet.
Get a Kori in the house in the chat.
It's very good.
Very timely.
Oh yeah, fully cool.
Fully cool.
He's fucking amazing anime.
Six episodes.
Good time.
Great animation.
Great soundtrack.
There you go.
There's your weeb talk.
Jesus.
Fuck out of here.
Didn't want to see you in this place again.
I plan on doing a Long Man video for TROS.
Fun-tisms.
Good for you, sir.
Good luck with the long flisms.
Long flisms.
Waifu is an Eastern martial art, in my opinion.
All right.
Waifu.
Waifu?
Wasn't he a character in Kung Fu Panda?
I'm pretty sure, yeah.
Catching up.
Start my rewatch of episode 50 now.
Oh.
Well, see you soon enough, I suppose,
if you get through the additional...
What is that?
67-17 episodes.
It's lunch.
You got some catching up to do.
Anime Man badge.
Well, enjoy it, though.
We are long men, not animufags.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
What do you think, Mola?
Darth Mola versus Ryan Gon-John and J.J. Bram Kenobi,
the Battle of Ages.
That means I kill Ryan and then J.J. kills me.
I don't like this.
We have to change it.
We have to remaster it.
Make it better.
Make it stronger.
What are your most surprisingly good
and most disappointing movies of 2019?
Minor Joker, probably best of the movie of the year,
and It Chapter 2.
That actually could be mine exactly as well.
Joker surprised me in terms of how good it was,
and It Chapter 2 disappointed me in terms of how poor it was.
Rise of Skywalker was almost like one for one for the leaks,
so it wasn't exactly disappointing, you know?
It wasn't disappointing unless you weigh it against
the potential of what it could have been,
but that's all under the foundation of the last two episodes
and all of Disney's shenanigans that they've done.
I just don't think it was going to work.
I just don't think it was going to work.
Build.
Any other suggestions, folks?
Movies that disappointed you this year
all surprised you in a good way.
Movies that disappointed me?
Is Captain Marvel this year?
Yes, actually.
It's kind of crazy to think that it feels
like a fucking lifetime.
Captain Marvel was this year.
Captain Marvel was fucking awful.
Which is worth Rise of Skywalker or Captain Marvel?
The tough questions.
They're both so damaged, like script-wise.
Oh my goodness.
Well, I'm going to go with Captain Marvel was worse.
That might be purely subjective, though,
without really giving it some thought,
but I would have to consult the elders.
I don't know.
Maybe that's poll worthy.
Yeah, we could try a poll.
Because I legit just do not know.
Because, you know, people might be like,
how is this a hard question?
It's like, well, it fails at everything, Captain Marvel,
like destroys Marvel's world building of what, you know,
there was the characters are terrible.
It doesn't necessarily it ruins fury to a degree.
But then the protagonist is awful like this.
And then the plot is really stupid.
So it's a tough one.
That's a tough tism.
Worth a oh, they're both terrible.
But this is like this in Last Jedi.
They're both just so garbage in their own kind of way.
Yeah, hopefully we don't end up with a draw again.
That's the last thing we need.
If I have chat, you're supposed to tell us how to think.
Okay, my God.
Yep.
It's up to you.
All right.
Spamming the poll now.
Spamming poll now.
Now.
Pulse band.
Stand by for penetration.
I'm going to check it after we read the next one, I guess.
Yeah, let's do it.
I will combat both weekend of the attractive brunette
on their opinions on Jojo if need be.
Part one, four and seven equality.
The rest is either meh or garbage.
Because he was saying one, someone was saying one is wasn't that good.
Chase it, have to field that.
Because I have no fucking clue.
Say it again.
Parts one, four and seven of Jojo equality.
The rest are meh or garbage.
Kill yourself.
Part two.
Part two is really, really, really good because things
are fucking happening constantly in the entire entirety of part two.
Yes.
We are talking about Jojo, right?
I kind of zoned out.
Yeah, yeah.
We're talking about Jojo.
I'm only up to part four, but part one is like obligatory.
Like, okay, got to set the stage and see what's going on.
There were a couple cool moments.
Woman's begging a vampire king named Dio.
Like, please don't kill my baby.
And he's like, I'm not going to kill your baby.
He turns into a vampire and she just fucking rips her baby apart with her teeth.
And I'm like, it's kind of fucked up.
So that was impressive.
Part two is all really exciting and funny and energetic and lots of cool fights
and interesting twists.
Part three is 48 episodes long and involves a lot of, I guess you could call it filler,
just sort of dumb fights with very little payoff.
And then I've started part four and I like it significantly more.
It's just more interesting, but there's no bad part of Jojo,
just lesser parts in my opinion.
So yeah, you should still kill yourself though in Minecraft.
Osh.
In Minecraft.
This says the line integral of Diabeto is undefined.
Correct.
That must be like the math way of saying he fat.
I think so.
Because he do be fat.
My mom said TROS feels like Star Wars and I'm just too nitpicky.
I give up.
Turn off brain and shut up, I guess.
Yeah, it feels like Star Wars.
What does it mean to feel like Star Wars anyway?
The music, lightsaber.
Music, the lightsabers.
Yeah, it's definitely a part of it.
Undeniably, that is an element.
It's just the visual.
Oh, I recognize that thing.
That's Star Wars.
That music is Star Wars.
I heard you big fan of new Godzilla film.
Knew it was great.
Now kids will stop bullying me at school.
It hits a lot since I'm 11.
Thank you more like you, my hero.
That was cute.
We didn't like the new Godzilla film.
If you're 11.
Yeah, it was actually right.
Properly terrible.
But thank you.
Yeah, but thanks.
But yeah, the Godzilla movie was pretty bad.
Happy New Year, you beautiful massives.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
This just says I'm wet.
Oh, well, consider me impressed.
Oh, this is kind of relevant to what Chase asked earlier.
Question for ER, your videos are very well edited
with subtle scenes from various series and movies.
Do you have some amazing memory
or do you work really hard to find them or both?
Uh, it's a mixture of both, really.
I don't have a really great memory for anything,
but I guess I do in this very specific kind of way.
When it comes to memes, you're God.
Is that what you're saying?
I'm a meme God.
Meme God.
Yeah, that's honestly always really impressive to me
because you'll just see someone like, there'll be like,
fucking, I forgot his name, but there's a YouTuber
that does a lot of Rust content.
It's like the biggest betrayal or whatever.
And it's just really snappily edited.
And there's always a lot of really great,
there'll be like just a random scene
from a movie of someone being like,
you lied to me or something like that.
And they'll just paste it in where it fits
within the context of the video.
And I'm like, how the fuck do you remember?
Do you just have all these clips sitting around
of just random sort of like reaction clips
that you can paste into things?
And it must be incredibly just fatiguing
to have to keep track of all that
as like a big compendium
and recall it on the fly for video editing.
It must be very, very tiring to edit together.
That's where the skill comes in.
And the insane memory.
Or memery, as one might say.
Or maybe they just randomly sort of think
of a clip in particular
and try to see how they could put it in.
Maybe, yeah.
I'm curious like what the process is.
It's more the process that intrigues me than.
ER, the only non-Nazi here.
The rest talks to, the rest talks to ER.
I don't know what that means.
It makes you all Nazis.
That's right.
I've wondered.
Think about it.
What's this?
ER on my alt-right communist podcast?
Yeah, I know.
It's confusing as to where exactly it lands, but.
Rags, Mando was shit from episode one.
Incorrect.
I agree with the correction from Rags.
Yeah, that is not true.
The show is not crap from episode one.
In fact, we were excited for its potential.
Ghost in the Shell and Baccano
are both great and extremely normally friendly.
And Bastard is just pure gold 90s goodness.
Watch them.
You'll like them.
I've watched very few enemies,
but Ghost in the Shell is among them.
And I really, really liked it.
Yeah.
Standalone Complex might be among my favorites I've ever seen.
ER, were you trying to say something?
I think you and Rags kind of blended.
Oh, just looking at Bastard.
I never heard of it.
Him either, actually.
Looking at Bastard?
Because you're both Bastards.
Like I looked after.
Yeah.
Ghost in the Shell is really good.
I remember when I was a kid, I watched it
and I was like, is this fucking...
It was like the show I'd put on to fall asleep to.
Now that I'm an adult and I can appreciate
a lot of the more gray areas.
I'm like, this is really fucking really good.
It does bear repeating though.
Definitely check out Monster if you're okay
with watching like a 74 episode long anime
with very little filler.
It's extremely tense.
Has a really cool blend of like anime and realism.
It takes place in Europe.
I actually show it to my friend who lives in Germany.
And he was really, really impressed
with all the little details of how accurate it is
to like how Germany actually is
and the culture and food and all the other stuff.
So it's like, it's really, really well done.
I hear the guy's done a lot of other great work too.
Also, Serial Experiments Lane is like a good,
if you like a very angsty moody kind of show.
It's very like...
Yeah, just really moody.
Like even just the OP itself is like maximum angst.
Very nostalgic.
I don't really get into that one.
Yeah, it does what it does really well.
And the art style is extremely distinct.
Serial Experiments Lane, L-A-I-N.
Next question.
At the very least, watch Psycho Pass.
I love how if we had more like weaves and then the chat.
Like, I don't know what the chaos of discussing
a debate at a bay is.
Like, it's probably pretty intense.
Lane is super slow.
Someone commented that.
That's very true.
Yeah, no, Psycho Pass is good until like,
without spoiling anything,
until like the main antagonist is out of the picture.
He's like the most compelling part of the entire show.
Because it's like, it's kind of,
isn't there a movie where it's like,
they can go back in time and incarcerate murderers
and criminals before they have the chance to do the crime.
And then that brings up the ethical question of like,
minority report.
Yeah, minority report.
I just couldn't remember the name.
But it's kind of like that where it's like,
there's this fucking gun that called the enforcer
that can murder people.
I'm sure everyone already knows about Psycho Pass, but.
I have no idea about Psycho Pass.
It's like you aim this gun called the enforcer at a bad guy.
And they can be, it'll like,
just terminate them based on like the sort of probability
of how likely they are to go on to commit crimes.
And it'll just fucking eviscerate them
with like a laser bullet.
And there's this one dude who is just like
in the act of murdering someone at knife point.
They try to pull the gun on him.
And it's just like, quotient's too low.
Safety initiating.
And it's just like, no, we're fucking murdering someone.
And so he can kind of get past the grid, essentially.
I didn't like it that much.
The soundtrack was really like samey kind of electro,
but otherwise it was all right.
Because when I point my gun at people,
um, well, we'll get into that in another time.
You're suggesting the same thing does not happen?
My gun doesn't talk to me and tell me I can't.
Normally it's the other person screaming,
no, no, please, my baby.
But I'll be sure.
Let me listen to that.
Not this guy.
It didn't stop me before.
What about Beastars?
I've heard only good things about Beastars.
Yeah, it's like really meme-y and comical.
But I've never seen it.
There's just a single, like there's a couple of panels
I saw, which is like, I thought my,
it's like a bunch of, um, anthro furry characters.
They're furries.
There's one where the guy's like, yeah, he's like,
I thought my son was going to grow to be like a good citizen.
And then he finds like a picture of like a furry anthro lamb girl,
like about to spread her legs.
And it's like, but it turns out he's just a degenerate.
And everyone really lapped that up.
Okay.
That's all I know about it.
A good way to sell it.
Mm hmm.
Furries go check it out again.
My dad called Riser Skywalker the new Black Panther,
his previously rated worst movie.
Also Daisy played a corpse again.
Full circle is full.
Um, new Black Panther is in worst movie.
Okay.
Well, yeah.
I could see someone picking that for their worst movie, I suppose.
Um, what's your guys' New Year's resolution?
Also high regs.
Hello.
My New Year's resolution.
I don't do resolutions.
I don't know.
Eat more ass.
There you go.
Yeah.
I think that's reasonable.
I didn't have one planned myself, but uh.
Try to upload faster.
Try.
Oh yeah.
That's the resolution of mine.
Yeah.
I guess now that you actually, I mean, I wasn't meaning about the other,
but this, yeah, I am planning on doing that way more often.
I will try and beat my record for uploads.
This is for 2020 than 2019.
Okay.
There you go.
That's my resolution.
All right.
EOS your turn.
Hmm.
Six million more.
Six million more.
He's so brave.
Now it's your turn, Chase.
Six million more.
Do you want to do a different one?
What of resolutions?
I already said resolutions.
I already said, uh, if I can upload faster.
Or do you mean something a top?
Oh, I thought you said you were saying that to me, but okay.
I mean, yeah.
Maybe you got a job.
I don't know.
Have an actual source of income.
You don't have a job.
You fucking dead weight in society.
I did for a while, but uh.
Worthless.
Disgusting.
Despicable.
I was too generous.
I was too good at my job, and I made all my coworkers.
I was too good at my job, and I made all my coworkers look like shit.
I had really good sales, and I guess they just didn't want me there.
I was too happy with my life, and it's like, why is me miserable, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, you're amazing, right?
We get it.
You're the best sales.
Pretty great.
I want to say as well, TROS has won it as a significant lead on Captain Marvel.
Really?
It does.
It is the lesser movie, according to efap chat.
I'm not that surprised, but.
They're probably pretty awful.
Yeah.
I think it's a bit of a matter of like, most people probably aren't fresh on
just how bad Captain Marvel is, maybe.
But it's fair enough.
What's your go?
Oh yeah, I read that.
Have you seen Monday Matt's cringy episode nine takes?
We were going to check one out today.
I'm afraid he didn't make the cut, though.
Didn't.
He wasn't good enough to even be.
He wasn't good enough to be made fun of.
I'll let that sink in.
Maybe we'll check him out next time.
Who knows?
But disappointing, to say the least, Matt.
Disappointing.
I'm convinced that.
An organic contender.
Convinced that Leia cheated on Han with a toy Darian and that made Kylo.
Oh yeah, that does kind of make sense, actually.
Yeah, he's got a big nose.
What?
Toy Darian's are the the the the one that water is.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
I bet they got.
I bet they got.
Not a rock on me.
Adam Driver was a marine.
Can you imagine how incompetent he must have been through the through thought.
He must have thought.
Oh, sorry.
Can you imagine how incompetent he must have thought the first order was
militarily when given the script?
Oh, fuck.
I can only imagine.
I imagine that they just go like, Oh, well, it's not that a normie would go.
Whatever it's done was, it's fine.
They tell themselves that in order to sleep.
I'm sure.
Yeah, that's what they do.
Whatever gets me through this day of filming.
Saw it last night.
Cinema was 90% empty.
Really?
Hmm, huh.
Mine was pretty packed.
I mean, it's the least earning of the three Star Wars.
For now.
Yeah, I think so.
I don't think it's going to go past the Force Awakens or the last Jedi,
but it'll probably get over the billion.
I haven't actually looked up to date with that.
I don't know how it's doing.
Because we'll find out.
A very dear friend of mine genuinely liked it.
Plus side, he acknowledges the many flaws.
Downside is he thinks he this it's sexist to not like Rey and such people need to be yeeted.
Please help.
Oh, yeah.
Well, tell him if there's ever a character that he doesn't like that's a woman,
then he go and get yeeted himself.
Like, look what happened to Quentin Patrick.
Just right.
All these people who are making these takes and just immediately like,
excuse me, they hate women and black people.
You can be disgusting.
I I'm so sorry that our audience had to see that despicable racism presented just so glib.
Disappointing, disgusting.
All of the other words to critique Eric Butz's review.
Is it would it be worth doing?
He's probably just he's probably just an idiot who claps at anything.
Like, yeah, I can't imagine him making because the funny thing with the video
essay crowd is they always make like ridiculous points that they think sound really intelligent.
If we're just dealing with a dude who's like your average audience member
who really loves Star Wars, just saying I really love the part where blah, blah,
happen bullet and just be like, no, there he goes.
Just leave him be.
Yeah, you're great.
You're just magical.
Um, also great lineup today and I'm going to burn a Christmas tree tomorrow.
She is massive.
Hello, wug.
Hello.
Hello.
Burn a Christmas tree.
Won't Santa be upset about that?
I don't know how that works.
I always love hanging out and talking with the other massives,
but they have much more important and influential guys than me to have on.
And I completely understand.
Yeah, I'm a little sort of how it turns out.
I guess you were just really disgusting and annoying.
Like, no offense.
That wasn't meant to be a shower.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, a digital shower.
But then the voices come back when I when I'm alone in the shower.
Oh, are you sure that's not you singing?
I'm sure that's where I do my singing is in the shower.
Yeah, the acoustics are fucking great.
Yeah, just start my cock and sing to it.
I sweetly serenade it.
It's you and me.
I can only imagine.
Is that how you charge it?
Prep it for bath.
I just grant it life force by singing to it in the shower.
You just look right at it and sing into it.
It's that long.
You can just go into it.
Yeah.
Why not?
I suppose you law.
Here's an argument my dad made.
Palpatine is alive.
So he didn't die in Return of the Jedi.
So we just assume he escaped.
It doesn't break universe.
It's bad writing, but it's not impossible.
Kind of.
I don't think it's possible.
I just I just love this.
I guess it is possible.
Apparently vaporized twice vaporized.
Yeah.
Yeah, I live through that.
If you're an evil Sith man, you can use the power to survive planet explosions.
Like how he just was dormant for so long.
And they're like, he's back.
It's like a hound.
Yeah, it's old time.
Makes sense if you don't think.
But just yeah, we just need that.
I don't know.
Bonus sort of scene where we see him fall down that shaft and then he
casts a little magical spell to make an explosion.
And then he's like, hey, and he gets into a little pod.
He's like that fucker Vader piece of shit.
I'm fucking out.
He just drives to Exegol.
And then he's like, oh, I accidentally clipped my finger on a on a wall.
Ow.
My hands.
They're all at his hands.
And when he goes down there, someone shines a torch in his eyes and he's like,
ah, my pupils.
Oh, no, they got now.
There you go.
Darkness is actually kind of shitty.
I hope this doesn't bite me in the ass someday.
Wait, if it's hidden, how did I find it?
And we will never know.
What bugs you the most about the Mandalorian rags?
What is its most glaring flaw?
As I mentioned before, characters consistently over and over and over act contrary to stuff
that they know, and they do things that are insanely stupid and make no sense whatsoever
just so a plot can happen.
Mandalorian and the Mandalorian in particular, Mando, he his his competence level is mysterious
is the most charitable way I can put it.
He is constantly doing insanely stupid boneheaded things because we want a thing
to happen when I have an episode where things start.
So Mandalorian is now a fucking retard.
Yeah, people are very stupid in a lot of parts of the show, unfortunately.
It's just Disney Star Wars.
It's just Disney Star Wars.
Finally got my husband addicted to Efap.
We've been rewatching from the beginning over Xmas.
Let the fun begin.
Yay.
All right.
I hope you make all the things you can get addicted to a fapping.
You know, not bad.
I like it.
You get comes up from me.
Winton, let it burn.
I like let Quentin burn or you are you telling Quentin to to release his rage?
You should let it burn.
Yeah, that's what I'm getting from that.
I don't know.
Or maybe burn his sex doll.
No, it burns like a plastic.
You know, it's a really very solid, strong flame, but it's very dirty.
You don't want to breathe in those fumes.
I feel bad when you look at Quentin as I have the same name as him.
Oh, that's okay.
At least you're not.
Last name isn't reviews.
Yeah.
My favorite TLJ defense is when I asked why they didn't save the slave children.
In a book, it said they aren't slaves and could leave if they want.
Bull fucking shit.
Bull fucking shit.
They got Stockholm syndrome for the dude who whips them.
Oh, I hope he whips me today.
No, I hope he whips me today.
No, me.
They start fighting.
He just whips them all and they're happy.
And they cry tears of joy, not tears of pain and anguish.
Monday, Matt is diabetes after using his sugar altering powers to disguise himself.
He's a he's a he's a Palpatine clone of diabetes.
That's why he turned out all fucked up.
Diabetes strikes our heroes with force candy strike unlimited calories.
Unlimited swell up massive.
Rags is doggo of the year and this movie was ass.
Yay.
I agree on the first part and the second part.
This movie.
This movie was ass.
Wynton is Snoke.
Diabeto is Sheev.
Mundane is Hux.
Yeah, I mean, that pans out, I think.
Diabeto being the mastermind of puppeteers at all.
I can see it.
Diabeto mosquito.
And weak fighter.
Are you from Romania?
Oh, uh, weekend warrior.
Where is we can worry from again?
I forget.
He's from like Indonesia or the Philippines, right?
Think so.
Philippines, isn't it?
Napa Bend is Indonesia.
Are you sure he's a Filipino?
And we can worry yours from the Philippines, I think.
There you go.
I don't know if you've answered this already more,
but what are your reactions to crisis and infinite is still coming out soon?
Oh, yes.
As soon as I'm done with my rage video,
I am going to get them sorted out in terms of getting them past copyright.
That's when you think stopping them right now.
Hopefully, before a Batwoman kicks back up,
which starts on the 14th of January.
So I got that much time.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my God.
It's E R true.
Correct.
Rags.
We will poop together with the door open.
No, we will not.
We will never poop together with the door open.
Never.
I will poop alone as I always have and as I always shall.
Never, I say.
Never.
You can't force me to do such things.
Never shall I poop on the side of another.
Just suddenly jump into a transatlantic accent.
Marr.
E R on eFap and a 10 hour decade recap stream by Nick Fuentes.
Today is the highlight holiday gift I need for Christmas season.
Oh, there you go.
Ross Christmas has come true.
Yeah, there you go.
Wynton is that far be bubble bass.
Yeah, I'm kidding.
That's what he reminds me of.
That's what he reminds me of.
Just a fat lumbering buffoon.
How many new long men will be created because of TROS being such a dumpster fire?
It'll be my longest ever.
So I'll assume you'll have a new army of massives.
Yeah, I think so.
All kinds of videos are still going to be coming out.
We're still only, what, a week and a half past the movie being released.
So, you know, this is this is early game for video essays and video takedowns.
And we'll all know.
I mean, me and Rags are just looking forward to that day where we cover the video that says
TLJ was ruined by return to return to the skywalk, a rise of skywalk.
Oh, there's going to be there's going to be plenty of those from all these same people.
I can't believe we've already got.
Totally not going to use the same reasons for one and not the other.
But, you know, we've already gotten the take from Quinton that
it's like he gave in to racists.
That's why Rose did the film.
It's like, wow.
I didn't give in to racists.
That's why I don't make as much money.
I'm not complaining, though.
I'm proud of it.
Imagine you just like met up with JJ like personally,
Quinton and JJ was like, no, she's just a really bad character.
What Quinton do?
His brain would short circuit.
Just picture.
He'd be like, no, you you've been you've been brainwashed by the alt right.
Yes, they got take.
Is it a take for me to say that I would I would eagerly accept money from white supremacists?
Yeah, absolutely.
If you're a white supremacist out there, fucking give me all of your money.
Yeah, no, I will take that.
I will gladly make I would gladly have you be poor so that I can be richer.
Yeah, precisely.
It makes sense that you guys would find solidarity with white supremacists.
Wouldn't you wouldn't you be OK robbing white supremacists more than anyone else?
I think Rex said that.
I I wouldn't like.
No, I know I'm not robbing.
No, no, I mean, you said wasn't it you or was it someone else who said
you become richer and they become poorer?
Isn't that the experience they give me their money?
Yeah, well, you would think that that's the thing Quinton would want.
But Quinton is so virtuous that them voluntarily giving him money
means that they in some way endorse his work.
I also like the idea that like he sees he's got like a live sub count right in front of him
and he's doing a live stream and he puts up Milfingers as fuck Nazis.
And it goes down by 10 subscribers and he's like, good, I just lost 10 Nazis.
And you find out like one of them was just like, no, I just find you annoying.
No, no, you're just obnoxious.
Like, obviously, like it's it's the default that you don't like Nazis.
Using it as a way to virtue signal is kind of like super cheap and pointless.
Just lazy. Yeah.
Just lazy. Yeah.
It's like it's just not a Nazi and they tell you like, yeah, I'm not a Nazi.
He'd be like, no, fuck you. You are a Nazi.
It's like, oh, OK.
All right. Yes, I'm a Nazi.
Shout out to Simple Flips.
Simple Flips.
Simple Flips.
Shout out to that guy.
E.R. Number one sleepy boy.
I, Jace, Face, Che, Longbone and Rags.
Hey.
Hello.
Oh, and weak boy and mauler.
Weak boy.
Weak boy.
Asshole.
I mean, fuck you, man.
Fuck you.
Charge it up.
Long man.
Even though your opinion on the Expanse is objectively wrong,
will you be watching season four at some point?
Ashford is the MVP in this season.
I just didn't enjoy the three seasons that I saw.
So I don't really have any reason to keep it going.
And yeah, I don't know.
I'm probably going to try something else, you know, something different.
But I'm glad.
This is the thing.
If I was to give like a solid,
actual breakdown of what I think is wrong with the Expanse,
I would need to watch it thoroughly again and make loads of notes.
I just sort of didn't intend to have a lot to say about it.
And if I'm being completely honest with you now,
I've forgotten a lot of it, like already.
It's been like half a year and I've already like blanked out
a lot of what I saw on it because I didn't enjoy it, like I said.
But there we are, I suppose.
I hear the books are very good.
So yeah, books.
Oh, yeah.
Is this the one about, is this the one ripping off Dead Space kind of?
Uh, kind of.
I could see how you could relate it, I suppose.
I remember there being they found necromorphs of a kind
and then they had them attack a station.
Kind of, yeah.
I would happily say it's not a ripoff of Dead Space,
but I can see how you can connect them sort of thing.
Like it's a weird infection that sort of we animate,
sort of at least fucks up dead bodies with weird things and can kill people.
Oh, yeah.
And they like send it to a station to infect everybody on purpose and stuff.
Yeah, good stuff.
ER and J Longbone in one stream.
This is awesome.
Last hour.
Bubble bass voice.
Still no tiles.
I don't know what his voice is like.
It's been so long.
I can't really remember myself.
Still no tiles.
Rags, strip mine my coal chute.
I've been naughty and only your stocking stuffer can make it nice.
Santa's coming down that chimney.
Oh, my God.
Mauler slash ER.
Thanks to you both.
I have drastically raised my standards for stories.
Thought TFA and TLJ were okay.
Not great.
Found just how bad after seeing the feedback from normie to toxic fan.
There you go.
Oh, good.
Character arc right there.
Mola doesn't know Spongebob memes you uncultured swine bubble bass is diabeto
in a parallel universe rewatch old Spongebob there is efap meme gold there.
I only ever saw a couple of episodes here and there, but yeah, I've always understood
that Spongebob was good shit and then it eventually became bad, right?
Like as all shows that go on for a million years do.
Like I don't know any hardcore Spongebob fans will tell me.
Me neither.
Me neither.
The old stuff was fine, I guess I was never big into it.
It's just like you know how like this how this happens with Futurama South Park and
like Simpsons like there's this golden age of episode selection
and then it gets worse sort of thing that always seems to be the case.
There's no worse.
The what is that the long diminishing returns?
I mean, yeah, I don't know you guys like your animu is one has one piece doing
has been going on for 10 years.
You tell me.
Stopped reading it around.
I can't tell you the last thing is like I stopped reading because I originally read
Naruto in one piece and I stopped reading Naruto and they were like the forest of death
or something like that, which is like a big fucking deadly gauntlet.
And then I couldn't find the next issue of the manga.
So I just fell off and now I see like she put in and Boruto and I'm just like,
God, I fucking avoided all that.
It's a lot.
Winton is rounded.
I was just going to say if an anime has to be over 100 episodes long,
like I like a lot of things about my hero academia, but every episode wastes so much
time and just tries to charm you with the character interactions that it's like.
I just give me something compelling.
I can tell when an anime has to be made to be infinitely serialized
and it's just made for the profit rather than to tell a story,
get it over with and then move on.
Like you can just see them.
Oh, oh my God.
I was at hot topic the other day because I had a gift card.
Fuck up.
Let me finish.
I was at hot topic because I had I had a gift card in my wallet for $45
and I don't remember who gave it to me.
And so I was like, hey, girlfriend, do you want to like a free hoodie?
And she's like, sure.
So we went there.
There was literally a kid dressed up as I see hot from my hero academia.
The guy with like the half red, half white hair.
And they were all they all had to be like 15, 16.
And all of the other kids were referring to this cosplayer in hot topic
as the character's name.
And I was cringing so fucking hard.
And then all around there is like flat brim, like 50 cent caps with like fucking
Bakugo.
And I just reminded myself I never want to.
What's Bakugo?
Bakugo is like he's like the guy with the grenade hand superhero
dude in my hero academia.
Just don't worry about it.
Oh, all right.
That makes sense.
Very inconsequential.
Didn't sound very inconsequential.
Okay, move on.
Quinter at Quinton is rounder than Ryan.
What the fuck?
Um, I don't know about that.
Complicated.
Questionable.
Lots of things.
Mola, the timeline is getting worse.
Invite me on eFap 146, you massive.
Hi, wag.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Timeline's getting worse.
Well, um, timeline can't possibly get worse.
Batwoman's protecting it, protecting the infinite crisis.
It's true.
Yeah.
In Batwoman, we trust, uh, Quinton and Movie Bob would fight each other like walrus over land.
I want to see a Twitter battle between Movie Bob and Quinton.
That'd be funny.
Oh, I'm down for that.
Um, I just want to help the doll and tell her it's okay.
I think it was a guy doll.
Was it a guy doll or a girl doll?
Had to be a guy doll.
All right.
Well, yeah, that's like, that's just dumb for us all.
I mean, the doll's fucking him, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He has a system of bullies and leavas and stuff.
Well, anyway, that makes sense to me.
It is now law that Quinton is married to his sex doll.
Yeah, I think we all, we all assumed that.
Yeah, what a huge step forward for marriage equality.
That Quinton can marry a sex doll.
Quinton pegs himself with his real doll, Rey, and her flesh colored lightsaber.
Oh, man, Rise of Skywalker was bad, but I always consider TLJ to be worse.
Have fun responding to Quinton and his sex doll persona.
Oh, we did.
It was wonderful.
My character and embodies who I am.
Just fucking love how tortured it looks in the corner at all moments of the video.
Imagine being a sex doll.
Already terrible.
Imagine being Quinton's sex doll.
Have you ever played a welcome to the game too?
It's like a brutally difficult survival horror kind of like game that takes place on the deep web.
Really interesting concept.
Um, there's like an, uh, there's like, uh, I'm not going to bore you with the details,
but it's really cool.
If you're looking for like one of the most tense survival horror games ever with a lot
of intricate rule sets, then it's really, really challenging.
What's it called?
Welcome to the game too.
The first game is like really janky.
It was like clearly a unity kind of FNAF knockoff almost,
but welcome to the game too is a lot more, uh, a lot more depth to it.
And, uh, it's basically, you're trying to find a reporter who like got kidnapped and
she's going to be like murdered in a red room on the deep web.
And you have like, I think it's three real life hours to get to the, so it's like you
keep getting better and better and accumulating more money and buying more technology with the
money that you get.
And you can just get killed by like four things at any given time, unless you're careful and
you're always like checking your corners and everything.
And so it's like, as the game progresses, the stakes get higher and higher and higher.
And you have to find like eight codes to find the red room and then beat the game.
But there's one character, there's a point why I'm bringing this up.
I'm sorry.
It's taking so long, but, uh, there's a character called the doll maker.
If you go to his website, it like triggers him and he comes to your door and he just
like wheels up like a fucking mannequin woman up to your door and you get to see her.
He basically makes like sex stalls out of real women and he like lops off all their
limbs and stuff.
It's like super dark and disturbing to imagine being like entrapped in a situation like that.
Go check out welcome to the game too.
It's a good game.
That's what I'm trying to say.
That was worth the payoff.
Morla update on TFA three, infinite tisms, Joker praise,
Tross rage and all eFap movies.
It's your content.
I need it now.
Fap now eight, seven, seven.
Fap now.
Hi rags, but hello, um, TFA part three.
Well, as rags made clear several times August, 2020.
That is the expected delivery date.
Um, infinite tisms that the expected delivery date will be, um, early to mid January.
Joker praise will be, uh, later than probably next year towards the third quarter and the
rise of Skywalker rage will be within one to two weeks and eFap movies will be steadily
releasing across that.
I think 2020 is going to be a lot of stuff to do with my channel and eFap coming out.
We will be fine.
You know, 2019 was just tough to get through all the copyright stuff, but, um,
they're all just going to flow out at once.
Once, uh, two towers and doom stop being tismy.
Uh, he sounds sad and drunk.
I assume they're referring to the sex doll of Quinton's.
That would make sense.
Um, required himself.
Well, you know, maybe both.
I don't know.
I don't want to assume too much.
Um, ER is my favorite saucy boy.
How's life treating you?
Pretty good.
Saucy boy.
I'm just the message until Judge B.
Saucy.
I've never seen my father more affected by a piece of media than when they faked out Chewy's death.
Give Shad shit for not knowing that red is the color with the least energy purple has the most.
I didn't know that.
Did you guys look at purple?
I'm like, oh, I'm going to pretend I didn't now.
That's why I chose the purple.
Oh, apparently JJ Abrams, uh, he said, uh, on the relationship between Ray and Kylo Ren,
there's as much of a brother and sister thing as there is romantic.
What?
Why would, why would he say that?
I don't know.
I'm looking into the link.
Why is he inviting himself to be criticized so harshly?
So he said, he said, there's as much of a brother sister thing with Ray and Kylo Ren
as there is romantic.
So it's not literally a sexually romantic kind of thing.
It's more like they're just bound together in this crazy spiritual way.
Again, felt romantic to me.
When someone says spiritual, I always want to ask them, what do you mean?
Do you even know what that means when you say that word?
I think that's the word they use when they don't know what else to say.
They're like, uh, spiritual.
Well, he's reminded me of that joke from, I think it was Daniel Tosh, where he just
says, people like to say, I'm not religious, but I'm spiritual.
And he says, I'm not honest, but you're interesting.
Oh, I get it.
I see how far that's.
I'll demand a clap.
You're not Jeb imposter.
Um, rags, Valyria chronicles, still your identity.
Got a dog just like you with rags as their name, as title card during your
speech, copyright claim go.
Ragnarok.
Yeah.
The dog Ragnarok, the, the field medic.
I like it because I like these grades.
Did you just assume this year's number?
No, I asked it.
Listen, 2020 is only a sequel to 2019.
If you interpret it that way.
That is true.
Actually.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Come on guys.
Jeb is not even that pretty considering once she takes the atrocious, atrocious
amounts of makeup, she had to use men cause she's thin skinned.
Um, well, I, you know what?
I leave that up to everybody individually.
How, how attractive they believe her to be.
Who?
Jebby.
Um,
Jebby.
I just thought her light was overexposed.
I just thought that, yeah, the way the light hit her face.
That was just basically an icing of, uh, what is it called?
Makeup and stuff.
They just look kind of really weird.
She is by no means unattractive, but I would never, I would never dare approach
a woman, uh, with those opinions and never have like any sort of mutual respect.
That's more important to outline.
Um, one thing I noticed no arm slug guy goes flying when the, the Falcon swerves
yet everyone else is fine because art gravity thrown out logic for gags.
I don't even remember.
Did he like fall over?
I don't remember.
How does he get up when he falls over?
Does he have to like use his face and put it on the floor and press his feet up?
What a terrible species.
Um, named my, named my dog mauler and my skull on wheels rags.
Oh, they're changing it up.
Seeing as putting the one thing, one place you can get a skull on wheels.
Um, Wynton sounds like he's dead inside.
Well, this is the thing he actually kind of is a little bit.
As far as I'm aware, he's losing his passion for YouTube.
Um, it's all just the vocal fry.
It's the constant just sounding like this and the problem of wanting to die.
But there's an element of wanting to die.
That's affecting him.
You're like, Oh, look at my old videos.
I'm like, Hey guys, welcome to this episode about Sonic the hedgehog.
And then my new videos.
I'm just like, today I'm going to review Pokemon sword and shield.
Yeah.
And then people are like, people are like, you sound so different.
I'm like, yeah, age and debt will do that to you.
Hey guys, welcome to my Outlast review.
Hey, everyone.
We're going to show you how to make a crafting table in Minecraft.
Where'd she get you?
Layer walked past Chewbacca to hug a Palpatine.
I can say that now in my TFA videos.
Yay.
Uh, Babu Frick shouted Tada was a real funny.
Tada.
Babu Frick is underrated.
He needs his own Disney plus show.
I would sooner watch the adventures of Babu Frick than I would the adventures.
Tico.
Yeah.
I saw the first 15 minutes of this movie.
And even then I walked out when the regular kissed by the blood of Christ.
I couldn't imagine sitting through this bullshit.
Yeah, we did.
Yeah, we did.
I was laughing at lots of it.
I laughed.
I giggled.
I remember laughing a lot of this movie, but looking back,
I can't remember much of the actual events that happened, even though I knew the leaks.
Well, it's because so much happened.
It's like they all get mixed up like a blender in your memory.
Yeah.
Just a lot of shit on screen.
Is it bad that I still enjoyed this movie?
Yes.
I know.
You're not a bad person.
I honestly, I enjoyed portions of it.
It's just not for the intended reasons.
I imagine person.
Yeah.
Go see a doctor.
Quiet.
Stop.
E.R. speaks.
Let us hear his psychic powers.
Go, go, go.
Watch Avatar.
That was a super chat.
Watch Avatar.
That was the movie with the blue people on Pandora.
Yes.
Very, very good filming.
I believe it's E.R.'s favorite piece of media.
That's great.
It's like super smart.
He's huge into James Cameron.
Oh, yeah.
We're all looking forward to that.
That's going to be the new Marvel Universe.
Oh, yeah.
We're canon bending.
Quinton Running is mundane fat collecting boulders.
Like, you mean like it's like a lie?
Well, like, I don't know.
I'm going to go ahead and just thumbs up.
All right.
Only real laugh I had was Poe's wanna fuck face.
Oh, yeah.
Wanna fuck?
Yeah, that was kind of just like, oh, all right.
Is Rey the Virgin?
Or was she raped as a child?
I guess we'll never know.
But Unkar Plutt didn't seem like the kind of guy
to follow the rules, if you know what I mean.
Seemed like his own kind of dude.
I guessed that.
And he was played by Simon Pegg, who's a known crazyman,
who I believe is actually-
Say come out kind of against the I read something recently
is like a quote from him where he says something negative
about the sequel films.
And I'm just like, more of this, more honesty, please.
So Unkar Plutt decided that he would force himself on her or?
I get it.
I don't think anyone else gets it, Ranks.
I'm sorry.
That's a rape joke about Star Wars, everybody.
Hi, Rags and Mola.
Hello.
Hey.
It says, fuck marry, kill totally spies.
Oh, OK.
Oh, yeah.
Let's see.
Let me remind myself of what they look like.
Oh, Mary, Mary in the red head.
It's like, fuck the red head.
Mary in the red head.
I'd fuck the red head, Mary, the black girl,
and kill the blonde girl.
I'm thinking, yeah, I'm thinking I'm going to kill the blonde.
I'm going to marry the red head, and I'm going to fuck that spicy brown lady.
Damn, me and Rags kind of like-
Wait, for starters, they're 18, right?
Yeah, I'm sure.
All right.
They also don't exist, so it's fine.
They're in the age of consent here, but it's just, you know,
generally is kind of regardless of anything.
Clover, Sam, and oh, my gosh.
What's really weird is that when you type in totally spies,
there's always this thing, and I went to images
just to remember what they look like, so it's a little boy.
And so if you go across the top, they have the suggestions.
They have Clover, Sam, Jerry, cartoon, Blaine, Samantha, Caitlin, Dominique.
They don't have the brown one.
Brown one.
They don't have the yellow spy.
They don't have her name.
It's just Clover, Sam, and the butler, Jerry.
You're right.
I'm doing that, too.
What?
That is racist, yeah.
Alex, Sam, Alex is her name.
Yeah.
So, yeah, there you go.
Now you know.
Now you know.
All right, E.R., you choose as well.
The E-Fam lore.
Yeah, I'm with Google.
I'm putting Alex's name in the kill list.
Wait, which one?
So, Alex is the yellow suit.
Yeah, she's the brown chick.
Yeah, she's got to go.
All right.
She's got the red head.
Fuck the Aryan.
Fuck the Aryan.
We did it, everyone.
We did it.
If Diabeto is Quentin's father, the Quentin sex doll must be
Diabeto's daughter-in-law.
Does she get a supervillain name?
I don't think so.
It's, you know, supervillains get a supervillain.
I don't know that it's a supervillain.
It's not even a supervillain.
It's a victim, that poor doll.
Super victim.
Gotta be saved.
Gonna be a damsel in distress.
Someone find that doll and save that doll from Quentin's cock.
When was Totally Spies aired, by the way?
Let me check.
Early 2000s.
It aired from, so there were six seasons of it.
It was from 2001, was the first episode.
You got 18 years on top of however old they are there.
So, you know.
Well, it says episode, like season six, episode 26.
It says June of 2013.
So, I guess there were spaced out.
No idea what went on for that long.
Totally Spies.
I've never heard of it before.
Apparently, there was gonna be a season seven,
but the show got canceled, so.
Oh, wow.
It was basically just Charlie's Angels, but like cartoon.
Um, Lanipator of Team Four Star says that because Rise of Skywalker
retconned stuff from TLJ, if continuity is important to you,
you might not like this movie.
Ironic.
Um, how could you like TLJ if continuity is important?
Yeah, it's just.
Or TFA.
True again.
I feel like continuity at all.
You really shouldn't be about these sequels.
You like continuity, just stop watching things.
I'm just gonna disappoint you.
Support the mentally disabled, aka Quintens, in their fight to Disney.
In their fight Disney propaganda, he has been corrupted by Goliath.
Perhaps for the better.
The fact that Quinten can see right through Rise of Skywalker
means he's, you know, he's developing.
He's evolving as a critic.
Me and my friends watched Judge Dredd 1995 after watching TROS
to get that awful movie out of our heads.
Now that's how tismy this movie is.
That's a goofy movie.
You guys see Judge Dredd 95 movie.
No, I haven't alone.
No, I am the law.
I am the law.
An interesting one.
People in chatter talking about fucking code.
Lyoko.
You guys ever heard of that one?
Yeah, I remember code Lyoko.
It was so weird because they all had like skyscrapers for four heads.
Yeah.
And it was like a French like anime.
So like the lip flap, the lip flap was so abysmal.
I really liked that show back in the day.
Yeah, I remember.
I remember it.
I mean, I don't wonder if it was good or if I was just a kid
and I thought everything was good.
Yeah, it's a French cartoon.
I'd love to like revisit that show, honestly.
Hi Rags, you sexy beast.
Hello.
Okay, I'm going to I'm going to read this out and post it to you guys
because I know you won't believe me if I was just to read this out.
In a stink Mina rant.
Stop FJ your themes.
JL.
I remember one of the kolioko guys turned into like a furry cat.
And he would.
I don't know.
It's just what I remember.
It's what I pick up.
I've had a sword.
I've had a fan guy, right?
Sounds French.
Yeah, checks out.
Brief up 69.
You should review the Captain Marvel Triple X parody or XXX parody.
Also, have you guys seen uncut gems or do you plan on seeing it?
Looks good.
No, when you say people often ask me if I like my gems cut or uncut.
However, I don't know exactly what you mean.
Is that a movie?
Uncut gems.
And I have heard good things.
It's Adam.
Adam Sandler.
What?
Apparently it's good.
Wow.
I don't want to say.
Where we're at.
First time I'm speechless.
And then as for the Captain Marvel Triple X parody,
it's going to be better written than the Captain Marvel for sure.
But as for Efap 69, I don't know.
I don't know what me and Rags plans are going to be.
Do something.
Would that be the one where we have all women?
I don't know.
The whole flap.
Terrifying to do something like that, but you know, bigger things have been risked.
Chase in a dream.
Prequels gave us a lot of great expanded universe materials.
Sequels have done nothing but destroy the mechanics of the universe.
Yes.
Yes, they have.
That is correct.
George Lucas.
So here's the thing.
I fucking hate war.
According to Quinton, yes.
Don't the rebels go to war with the empire to defend themselves from imperial aggression?
I guess rebelling against an empire is imperialism.
Yep.
So yeah, that was the obvious thing.
It's just like war bad, tool of imperialism.
Like tool of also people who want to be free from.
Okay, whatever.
Jay Longbone say fuck your themes like stink meaner.
Oh, that's what that's what that was supposed to be.
Okay.
I will save that for the next time she happens to be here.
Have you seen Nostalgia Critic sibling rivalry review of The Rise of Skywalker?
Might be some good you fat material.
That was going to be in the selection.
I'll have to vet it to see if it could work.
But possibility, you know, me and Rags actually have to stream for like
every single day for a full two weeks to get to all of the like initial
tism takes running out to get, you know, a couple.
I think Quentin's one was a pretty good example
of where people who like TLJ's mindsets are at.
But, you know, who knows what else we can.
ER in a room with a black woman wildly unexpected.
I know.
Oh, why would that be?
You even subscribe to her, don't you?
Yes, I do.
Oh, my God.
My God.
Keep tabs on her.
Presumably, it would be a pretty brief time spent collectively in that room.
Why?
What are you what are you saying?
What are you saying, Chase?
I mean, you know, because he's saying.
Black woman, you know.
Yeah.
It's you forgot the pickles, you zoomers.
I mean, is SpongeBob a boomer property or a zoomer property?
Definitely a boomer property.
Oh, no, it's obviously a zoomer property.
Boomers in the f**king fifties.
Not these days.
That's not what I mean.
If you're gonna go that far boobies, anything like further than one year ago,
you're a boomer.
Basic.
Yeah, pretty much.
It's used pretty loosely.
To change the subject briefly, the worst thing about Monday and Matt for me
is that he convinced my friend that YouTube isn't a job.
What am I?
Monday.
Oh, most people.
It's not Matt.
Is it because he makes it seem so, like, pathetic or I don't know.
Or is it that he actually argues that it's not?
I don't know.
It's Monday.
Matt, I have no idea what his position is.
Yeah, I don't know.
It could be the stupid dumb one.
I mean, OK, if we're talking about, like, a reliable job that can, like,
pay the bills for most people.
No, it's not a job.
It's just like a means of passive income.
I mean, like, I have, like, 84,000 subscribers or something like that.
And whenever, like, my YouTube check comes in, it's, like, $30
because I don't upload, like, all the time.
If you upload regularly and get a lot of, like, views,
like, if you upload, like, daily videos or something, yeah,
it could totally be a viable job.
But for people that have, like, different editing styles and upload schedules,
not necessarily.
Yeah, it just would be about figuring out exactly what things you think need to be ticked
in order for it to be constituting a job.
Yeah.
If someone said reliable, strict, contracted income.
Yeah, YouTube isn't exactly.
It doesn't really work like that.
And you could lose your whole channel overnight.
Yeah, great.
Somebody just sent me this.
Let me post it.
That is not bad.
Yeah, I love it.
Bring the anime.
I like it.
Like, if we were in Cuphead, sort of?
Sonic?
Oh, yeah, shit, that's Sonic, obviously.
Yeah.
I would make you Tails, Wolf Sonic, and who would I be at that point?
Tails?
No, wait, what's his name?
Knuckles.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know my Sonic very well.
Yeah, I like it a lot, though.
I think that's very good.
Yeah.
I think it's very good.
Is this Mongoloid making sense?
I mostly understood Quentin's video.
It was just that it was just poorly structured, I guess.
Um, sorry, Long Man.
I'm at work and I can't listen.
Oh, save it for later.
Oh, this Gooney Man again.
Gooney Man?
Gooney Man?
Do you have a known refer to Quentin as the Gooney Man?
The Gooney Man?
I don't remember referring to him as that, but he...
Gooney is a word that I would, yeah, I would associate Gooney with him.
Um, I'm glad that the Chard...
Was Gooney a slurpore?
Sorry?
Was Gooney a slurpore?
Um, Child Adventurer, probably.
Oh, my.
Yeah, I know.
Um, I'm glad that the Chard skeletons of Owen and Baru
went still there when Ray got to the farm.
It's just like bleached bones next to the building.
Oh, my God.
What happened?
Oh, dear.
Um.
She could be Ray Solo because she's alone.
Oh, God.
Remember that?
Remember that when he got named Solo because he was alone?
Oh, yeah.
He thought they were so fucking clever.
Sorry, I'm just thinking about that again.
It's just such a crazy realization.
It's like, yeah, they put that in there.
They felt like we needed that.
We needed to know how he got the surname Solo.
They must have thought, like, yeah, how much does that make sense?
That he's on his own?
You know, he's Solo.
Oh, so good.
Couldn't just be called Solo.
Han is just a massive cuck compared to Ray.
Pretty much, yeah, she chose her own.
He was just like...
He has a family name.
He was named by the Empire.
Damn.
Looks to be you, buddy.
Hour one.
All right.
I think he mispronounced Chads.
I've definitely heard Chuds before.
That's why when he said it, I was like, oh, I think I know what that is.
I don't think I've ever heard it.
When are you glorious massives going to play Smash Bros?
The Cosmic Chicken demands it.
Uh...
Efap gaming.
Tough to get that in position as well as specific games.
Definitely on the cards.
Not exactly sure when.
Don't want to promise anything.
I'm still on board with the idea.
Would like to do it, yeah.
Absolutely.
Definitely do one, too.
Also, Hi Rags, you magnificent dog on you.
Oh, that's nice of you to say.
You see, Quentin, my son,
he who controls the sugar controls the arteries of men.
Page three, panel three of the width of Diabito, issue four.
Of the width of Diabito.
Chud is from a movie called Chud, you fools.
Fair enough.
Watch the newest Star Wars bad lip reading, TLJ.
I actually did watch that.
I thought it was funny.
I just don't think it's as funny as the one they made about Empire.
With the Yoda singing things, good shit.
Stream started an hour ago.
Awesome.
It just started.
Hello, all my J long bone words.
Glad ER is here and have a happy new year.
Also, Hi Wags.
Hello.
Happy new year.
Oh, and Quentin, your gore field design for Libra blows.
Also, for Libra blows.
Also, do you need a doctor?
Because you're talking about points that don't exist.
Quit talking to number one.
Oh, I think that might be referencing the whole like,
uh, sort of crazy, like, meta narratives he was generating about
what the trilogy means to the OT or whatever.
That's probably what it was.
Wait a minute.
ER on eFap with a black and a black woman at that?
Yeah, not buying it.
Clearly, it's not possible.
Fess up more.
Which one's the fake?
Um, well, they never spoke at exactly the same time, did they?
So just saying.
Um, did Quentin just assume Ray and Luke's gender?
Whoa.
Whoa.
They've got to be stopped.
Two things.
Have you guys seen the Kylo Pesci videos?
No, I haven't.
Nope.
No, I haven't.
Have you seen the Wakali Woods new movie?
And if not, will you watch any fap movies?
I have not heard of it.
No.
Um, let's see.
Is it going to be?
Um.
Um, well, I'm of the best of the best movie.
Loading the website.
It just says.
Oh my goodness.
Their official website is crazy.
In a good way.
Yeah.
Wow.
Here, I'll post it right there.
Just take a look.
Oh, wow.
Get Ebola.
This is like some, this is like some throwback E-bombs world shit.
Yeah.
Wow.
Well, yeah, we haven't, I don't know about any of them specifically, but you know,
no reason why we couldn't eventually check that on any fap movies at some point, maybe.
Yeah.
When I saw Rise of Skywalker last night and Hans Ghost showed up,
a man in my row stood up and said, Star Wars is over and left.
Oh.
Oh, um, yeah, maybe I, um, a little late, but yeah,
I don't even know what they're going to do next.
I shudder to think what it will be.
I guess TLJ didn't ruin it for him.
It was, uh, why is this guy okay?
Quentin got hot takes and hot cakes confused.
Can we have my theory about Palpatine serving the Death Star Chunk BE fap canon?
I, I mean, I don't disagree with that, dude.
I think we should all treat it as though that was what happened the whole time.
The dark side can make anyone tubular.
Of course, Vader's redemption feels like BS when the left won't accept someone
going back on mistakes they made in the past.
Also, hi, ER.
Hello.
Um, I mean, that's the thing though, I wouldn't actually be against
Vader facing some kind of repercussion for his war crimes.
It's not like I would be like, oh, it's forgiven.
Cause you threw the Emperor down a hole.
I'd be like, Oh, Ben, you did a lot.
I've been forgiven if he died.
Yeah.
That's why it kind of just works out that way.
And there's no awkward questions to ask.
He's just, he's burned on a pyre.
It's fine.
And unless he was cloned, in which case, I'm not the only one who thinks it's obnoxious
that he compares the Imperials as Nazis.
Please stop doing that.
It, uh, this isn't World War II movie.
Just stop.
Um, I mean, it's pretty easy to compare them though, right?
Especially with the costumes of the, uh, the generals and all the,
the lock stepping and the black and white aesthetics and stuff.
Yeah.
They're not really, they're not doing it very so.
Oi, Morley Nazis is the big thing now.
What are you doing objectively ranking Iron Man 3 above Infinity War and Civil War on Twitter?
I mean, you do you, but also, but why?
I, I assume you've got it backwards.
Cause that doesn't sound like me.
Also, hello, wanks.
Hello.
It's all right.
This guy woke up yesterday with someone who has not seen the other sequels.
When Luke appeared, she said, isn't that Obi-Wan?
That was the most enjoyment I had from the movie.
Yes, that is Obi-Wan.
Yes.
He's back.
He's alive.
I want to show Quinton all the text between me and my college hookups and then tell him about
all the ways I was abusive, misogynistic, and shitty to them so I can watch him disintegrate
the way Palpatine did.
Okay, whatever floats your boat.
Why attack the OT?
Why attack Vader?
Why does this have to do with Rise of Skywalker?
I don't know.
Quinton was bored.
He just didn't know what to talk about for 30 minutes.
I can't just talk about the movie.
I have to set up some thing about something else and talk about other stuff before I just
talk about the movie.
This says, pardon my previous chat.
This mongoloid makes no sense.
And the previous one was asking if he makes sense.
That's continuity for you.
Funny how you mentioned Vader in a white suit.
I believe that someone made a meme about that, actually.
We can eventually show if I get toward the end of this.
They're only children if you interpret them as such.
Correct.
Eeyar's muted avatar is single-handedly canceling out the pain of seeing Quinton's face right now.
Quinton or extra Star Wars media did not exist to mirror and revolve around the OT.
Plenty of EU media did its own thing in both the future and the past.
Yeah, and there's loads that came around the prequels as well.
Prequels were pretty respected in terms of the stuff that came around them.
A lot of the games and books, et cetera.
What the fuck did I tune into?
Why is he back?
Poor Quinton.
Apparently, Quinton's not popular around the EFAP sort of community.
Did you know about this?
I didn't know.
No idea.
Yeah, that's crazy.
Leave it to a godless atheist degenerate to not know how redemption works.
Quinton, you're going to burn in hell and your infinite blubber's going to power Satan's
furnace for all eternity.
Oh, Satan's finish runs on blubber.
I think so.
Yeah, I mean, I guess it makes sense.
I don't want to say that that's, you know, all right, whatever works.
Quinton's virginity and sadness is making my cock rock hard.
I'm going to fuck the cock boy.
Oh my god.
I was from Mr. Demento.
Somehow that makes sense, I think.
Uh, yeah, I'll say it.
Quinton is a Stalinist.
One death is a tragedy.
A million is a statistic.
Hi, Rags.
Hey!
I'm so glad they hate Star Wars Rise of Skywalker.
Broken clocks.
Of course they do.
It's Shout-On Rise of- uh, TLJ.
Crock and blocks.
I guess it's inevitable.
Can we now say the Star Wars franchise is the cinematic equivalent of a delicious meat patty
OT between two excrement buns, prequels and sequels?
But that implies-
I prefer to have good buns.
Can we just take- just not have the buns.
You guys can keep the buns.
We will have the, um-
I'll just have a delicious steak.
It's not that your blood is better, jackass.
That would be subjective to you if you have midichlorians or not.
It makes your blood better.
What the fuck?
I guess it- yeah.
If it directly meant that you're better with the Force
and you decided that people were better than other people if they had better force,
then that's on you, I guess.
Quinton had over 700 midichlor- I mean chromosomes.
Also, Hi-Rags.
Hello!
Wait, Quinton has over 7 billion chromosomes.
Oh my god.
I guess the Force works in mysterious ways.
Rey should have gone back to Alderaan, which, it turns out, survived Episode 6.
Oh wait, Episode 4, sorry.
I mean, they could have cloned Alderaan, you don't know.
Clone planets.
Clone planets.
Don't you know that if literally everybody can't do literally everything,
it's fascism?
Any recognition of even the slightest genetic differences is evil, don't you know that?
Evil!
Those Jedi Nazis.
I found I am all the Sith versus I am all the Jedi, stupid,
because weren't we led to think that there had been hundreds of thousands,
possibly millions of Jedi with not nearly as many Sith?
I guess that's why they beat the Jedi, the Sith, because it was more of them.
I guess that makes sense then, right?
Like billions of Jedi versus a couple hundred Sith?
Yeah.
You know, Palps wasn't gonna win.
There's balance.
You know, it's a balance.
We need a chart.
We need a chart.
The Force can be random, like being a wizard in Harry Potter,
it helps to be a part of a family, but it's not a guarantee.
Go.
Scientists are still working on a space elevator,
allowing amazing travel to beyond our planet.
Ra, is this high enough roof for Quinton?
Maybe.
Darth Vader.
Darth E.R. the Wise Emperor.
I think you're okay.
Yeah.
He's a little overtly spazzy.
R2 sees Leia's birth and death.
Yeah.
Kind of weird.
Oh, well, yeah.
R2 is there for all the big events, I guess.
I still don't get why he didn't go with them on the mission.
He just stayed at home.
Like, why?
Uh, so can you-
Can you bang Force ghosts now?
Pregnancy too?
Well, I mean, theoretically, yes.
If they can interact with physical objects,
then you could just-
The weird part is that you'd probably still be able to see
your cock while it was up there.
So.
Yeah, yeah.
They are translucent, so you would watch yourself
coming inside of them and you could see where the cum goes.
And it's all very complicated now.
I would enjoy that.
I mean, we didn't invent the rules, guys, okay?
We did not invent the rules.
They're probably like cold, though.
I don't know.
They just look like they would be.
Being bitter at something because of inherent physical
traits is fascist.
Just look at Usain Bolt.
Or being better at something, sorry.
I mean, yeah.
That would be racism and fascism.
Yeah, they just wanted his really good genes.
Uh, thank you, J Longboat for Negroid.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my goodness.
Now there's a clip of you saying Negroid.
Well, you know, I was tricked.
Put it on the soundboard.
I was tricked.
Not as bad as me saying that all black people are Ewoks.
You know, I think that that trumps me.
Then again, I just said it now.
We're going to be saying that as well.
It's all over.
Everything falls apart.
In Return of the Jedi, only Luke could see the Force
Ghost at the Ewok village.
Not sure what that means for Force Ghost mythos.
The less we know, the better when it comes to Force
Ghost, honestly.
But unfortunately, the newer films kind of fucked
with that a lot.
I feel Efap needs a Star Wars fanatic in order to answer
questions and counter this guy's BS.
Yeah, we don't have like a super lore expert, unfortunately.
But I think we get by mostly, okay?
Because we know the films pretty well.
Midichlorians are the powerhouse of the cell.
Oni Efap crossover with Chase Wen.
Oni and G coming on Efap.
That could happen, right?
Chase, make it happen.
I'm sure he'd be interested.
The only thing is that I'm acquainted with Chris.
I guess we're friends.
I don't know.
He seems to always have a bit of a short attention span
when it comes to some long form things.
Not necessarily all the time.
But I feel like he would get really bored really quickly
unless the conversation was engaging.
I would fucking love to see him talk with you guys
because he's a very funny boy.
He's extremely busy making the new game
that he's working on and stuff.
What a nerd.
Yeah, fucking asshole.
There's a post of Chinese letters, faxi,
and it's too vow, too pledge, too swear.
Okay.
Faxi?
Quanitons stupidity hurts my brain.
Longbone, you seem watchman.
According to the show, you can smell racisms
off the people like bleach.
You must be able to tell if ER is one.
Well, it's a pity we can't get a different
answer on that.
And now you'll never know.
I'll have to ask her what she smelled
when she was here before.
I think it's important to remember
the Jedi are a religion.
What they believe isn't necessarily fact.
Same with the Sith.
Except Force ghostiness stuff.
That's just straight up something
you can learn how to do, right?
Like I said, Yoda's like,
yeah, you just have to sort of know how to do it.
Not like a religion related thing.
I guess why we wear that is that
it doesn't happen as a result
of someone judging you good.
From what I understand, anyway.
Oh, God, I'm getting flashbacks of
Jan Jack Saint's moronic video
of how the Disney movie Sky High
is an absolute fascist eugenics.
It's about fascist eugenics.
Can you prove it's not?
Have you guys seen Sky High?
No, I know of it.
I've heard of it, but I've never seen it.
Yeah, and rewatch it because
it was just such incredible eugenics propaganda.
I had missed out, apparently.
So are all professional teams, sports teams,
are they fascist because they just want
the most physically competent players
they can get?
Or how far does this thing go?
Well, I don't think you want to go down that rabbit hole.
Their rules are very simple, right?
And if you can't understand them,
you're probably racist.
See that? Silence.
That's the guilty are often silent.
Yeah, the gears are turning, but I got nothing.
Isn't eugenics like fucking phasing out
black people or something from selective breeding?
That's about as much as I understand about it.
It can be entirely wrong.
There's selective breeding in Sky High?
I thought I heard someone say something about eugenics.
Well, isn't eugenics when you're picking
specific traits that you want to develop
and getting rid of the ones you don't?
I think so, but I think people have kind of
forced upon it, like thrust it upon it,
like a permanent racial spin.
I'm no fucking, I'm no biologist.
I know nothing about any of it.
If I could give my kids superpowers, I probably would.
Yeah. Oh, me too.
Are you racist?
Let's save random kid instead of Luke.
Empire wins.
There are two forces living and cosmic.
50 short.
Um, what am I supposed to make of that?
What it says.
For two forces living and cosmic, 50 short.
Feels like a riddle.
Yeah, a normal riddle.
I don't like Quentin, but if you apply the bite model
to the Jedi, they do count as a cult.
Telltale is a YouTube channel that covered this subject.
If you apply the what?
The bite model.
I don't know what that is.
It's the bite.
Oh, I said dog.
I can tell you all about the bite model,
but I can't, but I won't.
It's just not.
It's a, it's an industry secret.
It's, you gotta, you know, there is a thing.
I promise you, there's a thing.
There's a bite model.
It's not the actual bite model.
I don't know.
I guess to determine cults.
I don't know.
Quinton's jealous of how it should have ended.
Probably.
They're super successful and enjoy what they do.
Quinton is kind of special needs.
You don't, you don't want to help.
Oh, he's the kind of special needs you don't want to help.
Damn.
Spoiler.
He dresses the sex dollars jab.
It claps.
Wouldn't he clap for jab at that point?
Four claps for jab.
ER has been hacked by Russian downvoting.
Russians downvoting Riza Skywalker.
Apparently it doesn't matter.
All the Russian bots are, there's even more Russian bots by Disney to keep it
right where it needs to be.
Yeah, evidently.
Did Snoke somehow not know that the girl who beat up Kylo Ben was Palpusu,
or did he just give him shit because evil people think girls suck?
Oh, right.
Snoke then like, ha ha, you were beaten by a girl.
It's like that girl is the other half of the forced dyads.
Granddaughter of Palpatine.
Do you not know this?
It's obvious.
This is the story that was began in 1977.
Yeah, everyone knew that that was the case.
Holy grandpalp.
Where did you hide all the Imperial gold?
Also high rags.
Hello.
Sorry, not holy hay grandpalp.
Oh, yeah, you can probably ask him about the Imperial gold.
You could be like, you must have had a store somewhere.
In fact, just sell one of those star destroyers.
You probably get a shit ton of money.
Go sell them to the huts.
Set it to the huts.
If you can't ship it out.
True, you have to find your way past the space cancer.
There's a lot of room around the planet.
I think you'll be all right.
And see how despite her powers and abilities,
it's hard to put the finger on why people are interested in her either way.
Uh, yeah, there's the constant confusion as to why everybody in the plot is like,
Hey, Ray's cool.
Ray's awesome.
I like Ray.
It's like, why?
Why?
I was the only person who shows or any kind of like disdain in the new movie.
And that's dropped by the end.
Remember how that was a thing and they just didn't do anything with it.
I was like annoyed at her and then nothing happens with it.
Weird.
Hour two.
Oh, we made it to hour two.
There you go.
Don't forget to cover Roberto movie's take of it's fine.
Much love.
Jay Longbone is top waifu.
Kick Jay for obvious reasons.
Execute rags for uwus.
No, the uwus will keep me strong for all time.
I cannot die.
And yeah, we did cover cinema.
Roberto's subjectively speaking, even if it doesn't make sense in story, what is something
that never fails to affect you emotionally for everyone?
Personally, I can already suggest one of those and loads of movies do it.
It's when they kill a dog.
Everyone gets very upset whenever you kill a dog.
How dare you so people usually get more upset at that killing a random person.
Like if you kill a dog, she's like,
Would you ask go on?
Um, I was just saying for me personally, I feel like a lot of it is, um,
if there's like, uh, like a family, not a family, sorry.
There's some noise in the background distracting.
If there's like a character that's going through hell and back and it's just like a really genuinely
sad situation and then the character just like is struggling to stay strong and eventually just
like breaks down crying and you can really empathize for that character.
That's something that always gets to me.
I mean, Mahler, you know, more than anyone, my Clannoa video is like kind of a good example of
that where it's just like, if you see someone in a really, really raw, relatable, emotional state,
that's something that never ceases to, um, not get an emotional reaction out of me.
And like you said, yeah, killing animals, that's like something really sad,
taking away something really precious to someone usually does it.
Um, I mean the, the, the spirit of the question was sort of like, would that still work if it
didn't make sense? What are like emotional things that still get to you even when a lot of the
things around it are just nonsense. That's why I was referencing like, if a, if a pet dies in a movie
when it doesn't make any sense, people usually get pretty moved by it regardless. Cause like, oh man,
automatically associated with that.
I would say my answer still is still the same. I'm not really, uh,
too, like I, you know, I can suspend disbelief sometimes and just ignore things that don't
make sense if like the final product is a satisfying, neat little package. I'm a little
different in that case, uh, to you guys.
Not as nerdy in that regard.
I mean, your words, not mine.
Hey, you masses. I just had a debate with a fan of the sequel trilogy and really held my own.
I got him to admit that he primarily liked it because it felt like Star Wars. It's all thanks
to you guys. Oh, how about that?
I'm glad to have that incredible impact on you.
Student God's work.
Dating Ray. Who's that girl? Oh, she's my Ray Sue. I get it.
I Darth Vader, Luke, I am your father, Quinton. Who cares? It's not important.
Luke doesn't even know Vader. Luke's just a farmer.
We probably should have brought that up. Yeah. It's like when they revealed that
Vader was Luke's dad, it's like, Oh, let me matter.
Moller rags. Do your best impression of each other.
Moller rags. Do your best impression of each other.
Moller moller moller moller rags do your best impression of each other.
All right. Now say that, but in your normal voice. And then I will have several attempts
at making your voice. Moller rags. Do your best impression of each other.
Moller rags. Do your best impression of each other.
That's pretty good. American accent. Yeah, we did it. We are. We are.
The the dark side is a pathway to victory.
I was telling, I was telling Moller, I forgot if you were there or not, but
after we got done doing the many, many D&D sessions rags, I started to kind of get a little
bit of a feel for, you know, some of your mannerisms and the way that you talk and just sort of
very smoothly transition from word to word. And it's just very like, well, probably a little bit
higher pitched than that, but you definitely carry yourself with like just a lot of grace,
a lot of just very sort of tempered responses to things. And you just take like very
thoughtful pauses. It comes across very elegantly. I know no one asked me.
Well, you know, it's always good to get your opinion either way.
I'm glad we were around for it. Yeah, we don't despise you. There's no need to imply that.
You're fine. Yeah, every once in a while you'll remind us why we keep you around.
Yay. He's like, oh, okay.
People like me. I think this is the most hack take from the TLJ as if other Jedi like Qui-Gon
was special because of their lineages. Yeah, I think that's a fair point, too. Did every single
fucking kid in the prequels and every Jedi come from a long, fably lie that all went back to like
one dude, old, gone Skywalker? I don't think so. Well, I mean, all humans here. So yeah,
there was there was the original Apex Jedi, right? Yes, the original Apex Jedi. And he
split in two and became a Jedi and a Sith and they fought each other and then had babies.
New law. And then it was just Jedi incest.
They might do that. Disney is stupid enough to be like, in the beginning, there was one
mad John Skywalker. No, you're ruining everything again.
Like it's like literally a bunch of idiots in a room. Like what do they want?
It can't it can't be the things that they're saying.
Best thing about Kylo Ben, he was great as Scott Pilgrim.
Who? Oh, Michael Sera. I get it. Michael Sera? Yeah, he was Scott Pilgrim. I don't know.
Like, are we talking about like the comics or the movie? Because Scott Pilgrim was originally
like the comic series. He had quite a lot of personality, even if it was pretty milk toast
and overdone. Oh, you know what? Imagine all Jedi did get to meet up like in some kind of post
Jedi ish place force coast wise. Unlike the little kid, the Anakin killed first of all
younglings was just like there and then Anakin's like, hey, he's like, you fucking killed me.
He's like, well, I mean, I saved the universe eventually. He's like, what?
You could have done that. It's like, yeah, what you go like he tries to avoid him at this party,
like force ghost party, where everyone's just chilling out and having drinks.
Kid keeps trying to walk up. He's like, go away. Master Skywalker. He's like, shut the fuck up.
Did you know dog food lid backwards is dildo of God?
Is it? Oh, yeah. Dog food. Yeah, it is. Dildo of God.
Dildo of God.
Like it just ends with Sia. Like that's the end of that.
Thank you for your amazing super chat.
Driver's face reveal was more jarring than Helbit. Oh, the dark Albert I'm assuming.
Um, thoughts on British TV series, Red Dwarf. I only ever watched a couple of episodes of it.
It's the one that I really missed out of all the British TV shows. But, uh, uh, good from what I
know. I'm going to assume. Yeah, I'm going to assume these three haven't actually heard of it.
I'm with the, yeah, there you go. I think that's, yeah. All right.
Uh, Disney max Disney after dark Disney hub. Give it time. We'll get all of them.
You all need to watch the latest flash gets video. It proves Disney has no clue and can't
legally capture Americans. What? Disney can't legally capture Americans.
The mouse one. I don't know. Maybe. Yeah. But George Lucas and Mickey mouse.
I haven't seen it, but maybe you haven't. Who did I see that with? Oh, I saw it with fun fact.
Yeah. Um, what's the new, what's the new flash kids animation? Uh, why didn't they just go to
the Batman beyond route and have it be the Palpatine had put a chip in his mind and DNA and
someone before he died. A chip in his chip with his mind and DNA in someone else. That sounds.
Mm. I don't know, man. I don't know. I just, I just stay dead Palpatine. Okay.
Dead. Uh, thanks. How, how could we be sure he's dead now? Exactly. That's like,
we have no idea. He could still be alive on exit all Mark two on some moon,
pulling even more strings in a cave. Like next generation, Kylo red is walking into this dark
place. You see a bunch of tubes. It is a bunch of emperor faces in there. He's like, you see,
I created several puppets of puppets of puppets. Like, are you the real one? He's like, no,
infinite movies, endless trash as Mike would say.
Thanks for the birthday, but I'll watch it later because I'm not caught up yet. Also high regs.
Hey. Winton, cinema, Roberto and Hitler. What do these guys have in common?
An obsession with bloodlines. Oh my God. Deniable.
Uh, I wrote that as a joke. Do you get the reference?
I have not seen Batman beyond, so, uh, I possibly won't.
We need to watch Batman and Robin again. Oh yeah.
Do I don't even know that we deserve to see such incredible content, you know,
after all the horrible days, so refreshing after the rise of Skywalker to see some,
get some good fucking food. Oh, Quinton, I'm afraid you're vibrating
Vader. Love doll will be fully operational when your girl arrives.
Fully operational. Ray is the voice of every Skywalker ever. All three.
Yeah. Well, there was four. You got to count Shmi Skywalker as well. She's in there.
Killing. Has anyone seen upgrade?
I have not, but I, I want to, I almost went inside, but something popped up.
I have. Is it good? It's pretty good. Yeah. That's what I heard.
Hi, Rags. Hey. Why are we here just to suffer?
Yeah, I didn't do the meme version. I just read it out casually. That's, that's,
that's me right there. I wanted to honestly present the question and get some answers.
Why are we here? Is it just to suffer? It is. There you go. That's the answer.
To bring joy to others. Palpatine in his voice. Hear me, people of the galaxy. Epstein did kill
himself and I told him to do it. Imagine that's the message they spread throughout Fortnite.
Fortnite. I could be something that Fortnite could legit do. Yeah.
Uh, also high ER. Hi. Hello Rags. Also co-star Mauler. Will you Massives review the Mandalorian?
Uh, we are interested. Yeah. So the plan will probably be to, uh, give it all rewatch to the
eight episodes in prep for an Efap where we'll have, I think Shad said he was interested in
Fringy. So we'll try and make it an Australian friendly one, as in time zone wise. And, uh,
we will break down our thoughts on episodes one through eight. Get a sort of conclusion,
I suppose. But yeah, we do plan to have an Efap dedicated to it at some point.
Also, Mauler, will you ever review the prequels? I do intend to. Uh, I just need some time dealing
with other, other things. Though clearly if I kept up to date with Star Wars, I don't think I'll ever
be able to get to the prequels because Disney are probably going to start plugging out more and more
things. Have they, have they announced any plans for movies yet? It's just the Obi-Wan TV show,
right? That's all we know, I think. Yeah, they don't, they're not going to do something about it.
Sorry. Wasn't there something about a Mandalorian movie? Wasn't it? Oh, I think from the guy who
made the Logan movie, right? That was a thing at one point. It was, I can't remember his name.
But I don't know if that got canceled or not because of all the stuff that happened with Solo.
I guess we'll find out. Uh, the Falcon's Porg, Porg Atchlorian count has dropped.
I like that he actually had an issue with that, the fact that the Porgs went on the Falcon.
Fucking covered up me for nitpicking.
And like, arguing that it makes them spineless. All right, man.
Uh, now I want Pi, fair enough. The OT totally never implied the force had to do with bloodlines.
Obi-Wan, Luke is our only hope. Yoda, no, there is another. His sister, Luke, the force is strong
in my family. Nope, blame the OT. Yeah, I think that's fair. The OT is definitely implying
bloodlines are important for a force potency, I suppose, at least, or maybe ease of access
in some way. There's definitely a conversation to be had there. Uh, Chirrut Imwe, am I a joke to you?
Oh yeah, so, I don't know if you guys remember, but Chirrut Imwe was not a character that everyone
hated, and yet he was Asian. What do we do? We just carry on hating Asians. Okay.
Um, TUG just reported Star Wars Calendar retcon comments? Star Wars Calendar retcon?
I don't know of this.
Um, why does he try to talk like a valley girl? Reminds me of a great video Soph did about how
these soy goys try to laugh as the Stacy's, they shat on them, that shat on them in high school,
as a coping mechanism for the trauma. I mean, I hate to be an armchair psychologist,
but you just might be onto something there, Sherlock.
You know who's underrepresented in Hollywood? Good writers.
Oh, oh shit. You don't see many of them on the big screen these days. It's all a bunch of fucking
hoes. Good night all, and good morning me when I hear this get read out. Also, high wags. Hello.
Longman isn't a race, it's a creed. Um, it's a stretch. Hey, that's, that's a good one,
right? It's a stretch. Hey, hey. Neon nub was Asian. Oh, you remember Neon nub?
He was a TFA, by the way. He did tid back up in TLJ or TROS. Neon nub? Yeah, the weird creature
that helped Nando destroy the Death Star. He is a, it's a, okay, the Wikipedia page says that he's a
fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Oh, a fictional one. Yeah, it starts off. Neon nub
is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. Phew. Man, thank God.
I just got here now and I want to leave because you made me look at Quinton. Also, hi Rags. Hey.
Hey. Actor Rahul Kohli is mad on Twitter because of Rose. Yeah, like I said, a lot of people are
very pissed off and they did that whole like Rose deserved better thing and I like it's, it's
laughing fuel, complete laughing fuel. She's such an iconic character who needs her time. The Great
Rose Taiko. So important.
Fuck representation, Quinton, you lard ass. This year's award season is based precisely
because there's no representation crap plaguing it. Tea and Arab?
This year's award season, we're talking about Oscars. I still need to see the Oscar nominations.
I haven't seen all of them yet. Just so I'm in the know, you know, I'm a, I'm a film honest war
kind of sway. So I got to make sure I do, you know, eventually. Should have focused on Rose's
sister and not killed her off so, so early. Yeah, a lot of people seem to be much more on board with
that character, even though she had like no lines, really. I think it's just because of how annoying
everyone found Rose Taiko. So yeah, weird. That's how that worked out. I needed Rose and Ryza Skywalker
because then I get to look at women. Oh yeah. You can't look at her. I'm honest. There is not
enough white representation in Bollywood. Ree, Belobagus Bungus. That was a quote from Belobagus
Bungus. Belobagus Bungus with the wisdom. Thank you Belobagus. Sorry, Mr. Bungus. I thoroughly
enjoyed the rise of Skywalker. After seven and eight, I had no more hope or rage left in me.
Nine was essentially a hilarious parody. I laughed my fucking ass off. Good. Glad you had fun with
it. Cause like I said, I was smirking at several points in that film. And if it was the right crowd,
I would have happily laughed. Um, if you had to choose one, would you be Jenny's Porg or
Quinton's Doll? Jenny's Porg. Yeah. If you're Jenny's Porg, you get to hang out with Jeb. So
he's in there. That's true. That's the reason you can clap for him. It'd be great. Yeah.
Video game. Dunkey recently. I don't want to, I don't want to see Quinton naked, quite frankly.
Yeah. Uh, video game. Dunkey recently shot on Mark after dark who criticized dunk's death
stranding review. Dunk Bailey addressed most of Mark's points, cherry picking some of Mark's
quotes to make him look bad. Really? I don't know anything about it. So basically, uh, Mark,
who's like a really good friend of mine, he just made like a long, like 50 minute rant, uh,
watching Dunkey's video and kind of critiquing it. And, uh, Dunkey and his Dunkey fashion just
kind of took a few little snippets out of context, uh, for like a quick, easy gag. I don't really
think it was warranted. I'm kind of torn because like I like Dunkey and I like Mark and I think
Dunkey's original video was the correct, even though he didn't like, it wasn't a super robust
explanation, but I do think it's a little bit dumb of him to send his, his league of like,
his legion of 5 million fucking YouTube stans to go, like knowing that they would go attack Mark.
He sent people to go to someone and attack them. I think you just covered him, right? Obviously.
So, so knowing that his, his, uh, that's not against him at all. No, but, but, but, but, but,
so this has happened before when Dunkey did his review of, uh, the other game. I feel like you
probably know this better than me, Chase, but he did a review of, that's it. Yeah. Yeah. And he got
criticized for like, um, he got a couple of things wrong and it was evident he'd only played X amount
of the game when he needed to play a lot more to give the points he was giving. And he like,
the one, the one thing I remember finding out was the, this is, this is me, for lack of a better
word, paraphrasing the events. This is how I remember, but it's the same sort of situation
as me basically being like, look how shit Pokemon is. And I'm like, I have a Pokemon that has no
PP in any fucking move. And I'm just using. Dunkey has Pokemon and has no PP. Octobad
Traveler was fucking bad. Well, his video wasn't very good though. Uh, it wasn't, but he got
criticized and then his response like left out so much of the significant criticism about his video
and just went for like the fact that the guy, the guy said like, I haven't played the game.
And don't, he was like, wow, you're like responding to me and you haven't played the game,
which by the way, rags, that would be the equivalent of me being like this movie called,
you know, let's just say it's the stalls episode 10. It's so bad because they're
fucking Asian people in it. And then you go, whoa, that's not a reason for a film to be bad.
And then I go, have you even seen it? No. Or like you, you have no fucking position to argue.
And it's like, well, hang on. His, his arguments didn't require that he had actually played the
game in full a lot of the counters. And I remember being annoyed looking into it. Um,
the donkey didn't sort of put more effort into it. And so I want to clarify as well,
yeah, how we cover somebody. And if someone said you send hordes to people or something,
I'd be like, number one, uh, we discourage any kind of like, uh,
brigading or negative comments even. And we will often try and make a pragmatic argument for it.
You're just going to, not only are you going to upset the person, but you just make you
everyone look worse in doing so. If you're just like, you piece of shit, I hate you because
your opinion's stupid. Um, I wasn't trying to say that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
I'm getting that. That's always going to happen. Um, and secondly, we usually play the person's
full video while donkey will play like very specific clips to make them look stupid and
then just leave it there. And it's like, okay. Yeah. Donkeys entire format is just,
you can't ever get too serious or like commit to like, uh, you know, like a sincere argument.
He just kind of goes in for like the quick laugh. Yeah. Which, which can be harmless. I
just don't know that I don't, I don't know all the specifics. I'd have to watch all of the videos,
but how's, how's Mark feel about it? Uh, Mark got pretty stressed out by it understandably,
but I think I saw he made a tweet today saying like, Oh, thanks for everyone. Like there was,
there was some good, uh, criticism in there. Even the people who yelled at me. And I mean,
I love Mark, but he and I, we, we are like polar fucking opposites on how we feel about
death stranding. I think it was the most pretentious pile of, of Schlock. I mean,
you guys know I fucking ranted about it. Not that one looks like, yeah, there's actually like
shit that you can get like key items and things that you can unlock. And they cover like a little
bit of backstory about like the development. And one of them is just like, you can tell Kojima wrote
it in the third person. It's like Kojima first found out about low roar, the band used for the
main theme song or like for the music in the game in an Icelandic record store. And it's just like,
oh, yeah, it's to let everyone know to stuff in quirky and indie and eccentric is his means of
discovering new music is and the whole thing. Just all the acting was so overdone and there's not
enough gameplay. Like it distracts you by giving you upgrades and shit. But then the core gameplay
loop under that is just fetch quests. And sure, it's it's a little more than that. But it's mostly
just that. And Mark's a lot of Mark's argument was kind of like, well, I enjoyed it. And it was
Yeah, well, if the game has you doing things, you're going to feel like, oh, I'm doing like,
it's fun. I'm accomplishing things. But it's like, there needs to be more than that, in my opinion.
So it's a whole, it's a whole thing. But yeah, I think Mark's Mark's it was just like a clip from
stream. It wasn't like a dedicated like take down video or like really serious opinion piece. It was
just him kind of talking off the cuff. And I feel like that's what donkey sort of exploited was just
some, some mild contradictions. Well, yeah, hope that it didn't end up too badly.
Mark. And yeah, hopefully there's some discourse to be had about death stranding because I don't
care to get involved in any of it because that game looks too boring. But maybe that's my bigotry
talking and that it is actually very good. Because I know that you got people on both sides of that
argument. Yeah, like there's people who like it's great. But there's also people who like it's
terrible. See, it's like as a huge Metal Gear fan, I for the longest time was just the biggest Kojima
apologist because he doesn't make really good shit. But like death stranding is what happens
when you tell Hideo Kojima, who has never been met with failure, that he can do anything he wants.
And he just makes the most fucking just like artsy fartsy film game. And there's no one to tell him
like, Yeah, might be a bad idea. Because before the developers at Konami, presumably were like,
Okay, but is this going to be fun? And this time around, everyone was just like, Kojima,
do whatever you want. And he's like, Okay, I would make this a metaphor about Trump.
racist. You used an actual stereotypical accent. That means you're racist now.
I love imitating Japanese men. I've fucking bought and supported all their games my entire
life. I feel like I can give them a little shit. Wow. You feel like you've bought them like this
slaves the fuck. Japanese George Lucas not wrong. Anyway. Yeah, I you know, maybe I'll look into
some of that. Like, donkey just seems to like, want to just chill out, have a fun time or whatever.
But you know, yeah. I just I've never found him I've said this before. I don't find him
particularly informative. I find him funny. Yeah, no, he's he's good. But if you said he's
anything beyond like surface level, you'd be lying like in some of his dunk views, he can
delve a bit deeper. But he definitely has a hard time breaking away from being entertaining
and goofy to actually be more sincere about things like if donkey ever actually did like
a long form response to criticism against him, I feel like it would be extremely jarring.
Yeah, because it's like, Whoa, I remember when he did legal legend stuff only.
Oh, wait, really quickly. Someone in chat said death stranding is definitely not for everyone.
The amount of fucking times I have heard that sentence regurgitated. No, it is not for everyone.
It's not even for most people. It is a game where you deliver packages, watch cut scenes about
characters that you just fucking met have it thrust upon you that they are the super deep,
enigmatic, interesting, intimate characters. Metal Gear was great, because you got to know
all of these characters. And there was like a lot of backstory to it that you could really chew on
and characters that you could really be like, I don't like this character, but I like this
character. And then Death Stranding is just like, it's just Kojima being a socialite. He's just like,
I've been to all these parties have met all these famous actors. I really like this character in this
movie. So I'm fucking gonna ask them if they want to be in my game. And of course, he's literally a
celebrity in Japan. So of course, they're gonna say yes. And so it's literally just him hanging
out the big fucking cool kids table being like, do you want to make a game together? And they're
like, fucking yeah, you're paying like $3 million. It's just everything reeks of just god awful
bullshit. And I'm a huge Kojima fan. So it like hurts to say that but Death Stranding is fucking
bad. Anyway, let's get off the subject. I mean, a bad Mike Tesla said, Hey, well, remember his
UK review? It's like, yeah, I saw that. So one of the complaints people had about his Death Stranding
video is that he's showing like, look, the fucking motorcycle doesn't work properly when he's like
going uphill into a mountain and stuff. And so it's like, why would you expect it to work in that
scenario? And I'm not saying that I know that for sure. That was the impression I got. But then
interestingly, like with his ukulele review, he would talk about like how bad the controls are.
And one of his like, fucking two examples would be on one of the most difficult platforming courses
with slippery ground when you're trying to grab things in a time limit. And he's exciting that as
an example of bad controls. And it's like, that's not even remotely fucking fair. Like I can kind
of understand because like with Dunkey's videos, he definitely takes the bits that support his
arguments and show them even if they're not 100% consistently true. But like in Death Stranding,
you get a bike and then you're thinking, Oh, yeah, I'd love to, you know, ride around this bike and
it makes traveling so much easier. But then everywhere on like, if a little rock on the
ground is greater than like, you know, two inches tall, it'll cause your character to like fucking
noticeably stop in his tracks. So it's like, he may not have showed a super pertinent clip,
but he's absolutely, he's absolutely right. Like the terrain in that game is just an absolute
nightmare. Like there's no real clear indication of what will and will not be climbable. Sometimes
it's it's seriously, I think he said in the video, it's like the in oblivion when you're trying to
climb your horse up the side of a mountain and just glitch up as fast as you can. That's honestly
what Death Stranding's terrain boils down to at times. But he makes some good points. Mark makes
some good points. It's all just came in. I've muted you on Twitter chase, but fear takes.
All right. Sideburn said that.
Oh, let me use the little be right back. Okay.
Just got here. And the very first thing I see is Quentin's construction site Porta party face.
Here's some money, I guess. Oh, I thank you. Love the deep analysis. You guys do so hard to find
in media. Keep up the yeoman's work. I mean, yeah, we do. You can say these podcasts are
pretty long, couldn't you? What do you guys reckon? Do you think? Yeah, sort of. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. That was the wrong. Um, but, uh, say it again.
I said, what do you guys reckon these podcasts are pretty long, right? What do you think?
Yeah. I like it that way, though.
Um, why didn't Wayne turn by an Asian doll part cattle? That's true.
He could have, and he didn't. Why do you stick to the way he, why didn't he buy an Ewok doll?
We know the truth support white dominance kind of fucked up. Yeah.
Nazis hate everyone who aren't German. Is that so?
One centrist glass cannon said the game literally has a terrain rating scanner. Yes. And you can't
use it every fucking second to dictate when the terrain you're flying at, at like 60 miles per
hour is going to be something you can ride over. That's not a perfect solution. There's not like,
that's the weirdest thing about Death Stranding. I hate to get back on this topic, but I'm seeing
all sorts of dog shit in the chat. Death Stranding has flaws. It's okay to acknowledge that. It's
not a perfect game. It's not an objectively terrible game. It's just not a great game. Is
that so contentious to say? Like there's so many like, like Kojima's fans are some of the worst
because you can't even point out an objectively like questionable thing about it without them
like spurging the fuck out and just being like, there's reasons for everything. It's,
it's a, it's a mess and a half. I love Kojima. I love every middle gear game except for
which is kind of flawed in a lot of ways, but Death Stranding is just not, it really isn't a
game for everyone. It's not even a game for like 90% of the population. It's just a game for like
people who really like deep art movies and people that will unquestionably purchase everything
Kojima puts out. Gonna probably piss off a few more people again. You'll be right. You'll find
something to respond to. It's going to be great. That's what my channel fucking lives for. Wait
until I make my video motherfucker. It's gonna be like 90 minutes and I'm just gonna piss off
everyone. I don't care. It's a really bad game. Making a long man.
There are games you can Monster Hunter is fucking great. You go out and you just murder shit as
stylishly and effectively and quickly as possible. And then you, you take their skin and bones and
meat and make armor out of it. And then you get to go back. Huh? Who are we making boners out of?
Monsters from Monster Hunter world. Oh, I bet monsters got big old boners. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
And it's a good game and the Death Stranding is just like, yeah, there's interesting things in
between. But as the court gameplay loop, it's fucking tedious as hell and everything about it.
BB doesn't matter. If fucking BB dies, the only thing you lose is the ability to see the BTs,
which you can still see without him. As soon as they start to rush towards you, you just crouch
and hold your breath and oh, holy shit, they're not a fucking threat. If they trigger a void out
and they blow up an entire area, guess what? That's a benefit now because now you don't have to deal
with the BTs anymore. You can just stroll through the whole fucking area without them even being an
issue. Sure you lose all of your cargo, but if you just set it aside somewhere slightly far away,
trigger the void out, go back and pick it up. Congratulations. Now you can bypass the entire
area without fucking running into BTs. There's just so many things about it that aren't balanced
and there's things that get in your way for no other reason other than to claim that it's
fucking balanced. It's just, oh, just admit that it's not a perfect game. Oh my gosh.
Now it's Kojima. It is perfect. This is, this is to go even further beyond.
Like if you're going to have a, if you're going to have a really repetitive gameplay loop, then
it needs to be either complex or there needs to be a really high skill ceiling and it needs to be
difficult so that I can go back and I can play Risk of Rain over and over. I could play Vermintide
over and over. You know, I could play stuff like that over and over and over again.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Like it has to be a satisfying gameplay loop. And when your gameplay loop is
delivering packages to, to fucking limp dick NPCs that look at you and go, oh, thanks. You've really
helped us out. It's like, give me a fucking nursery, like an abandoned nursery with like some
documents left behind from the people that used to live there. Give me something to believe that
this was a real world. You can't just make an empty world and say, oh my God, look, it's so
empty. It's so beautiful. Imagine what life used to be like here. No, that's not fucking compelling
enough. It's just a giant plane and all the NPCs there. It's like, oh, look, there's Junji Ito.
Hey, that's cool. You're not going to do anything cool with him. Okay. Are you saying that Ocono
O'Brien's in the game? Does world building better than Hideo Kojima? Yes, absolutely. Undeniably.
Oh, I'm, I'm really going to enjoy making that video. I can't wait until it's done on PC.
Yeah. I mean, I'm sure it'll play way better on PC. Like Metal Gear 5 on PS4 was good. And then
they brought it to PC and it's like, I didn't know a game could control this perfectly.
Metal Gear Solid 4? Sorry, did I say four? I meant five. Five? Oh yeah. It, it was,
they capped it at 60 FPS, which is unfortunate, but luckily it's not like one of those games
that you need high FPS, obviously be better, but it also means I could just crank it up to 4k
instead and I, nothing changes. Like 60 is the cap anyway. So I guess this is going to
play a 4k then. All right. Someone said love how ER is checked out. Yeah. Do you have any
opinion on Death Stranding whatsoever? No, I haven't played it. I haven't played most of
dude's games. Yeah. What's your opinion on the Japanese? Yeah. Let's hear that.
Mmm. Two bombs was probably not enough. Yeah. No, absolutely.
Also someone said, someone said zone of the enders is Kojima's best work.
I agree. Zone of the enders one and two are great. You can play zone of the enders two in VR.
It's fantastic. Very good. You're, um, you're gaining fans while simultaneously gaining people
who hate you, I think in chat. Good. Some people are like, yeah, rant more about the game. Some
people are like chase fucking any of you talking about fucking live for. It's like, I'm sorry. I'm
right. Yeah. No, someone said I really like heartening though. Okay. There's a kid. Yeah.
There's a character in Death Stranding named Hartman. His whole premise is that he has a thing
that like, like a defibrillator that stops his heart for like 60 seconds at a time. So we can
go to the afterlife and try to search for like his family or something like that. And his name is
Hartman and he lives next to a lake that is shaped like a heart. It is just alliteration to
it. Wow. That's subtle. Yeah. It's real subtle. All right. By heart lake. They make you, they make
you spend like fucking 15 minutes in a cut scene with this dude while he goes in and out of a death
state for like three separate times. And you have to wait in real time and look around his office
and examine all the amazing pieces in his room while you wait for him to come back from the
afterlife. It is just the most disrespectful thing of the player's time. He's kind of a dick
if he has company over and he's choosing that time to do this. Yeah. And he comes back and he's like,
I must document my findings. And there's, there's things where like, like at first I thought it was
cool because there's, there's enemies in the game called mules. We don't know why they want to like
knock you out and take your packet. There's no reason is given. They're just crazy FedEx workers.
Okay, whatever. And then if you kill them, they can trigger a void out supposedly and
spot a bunch of BTs, which are like the ghost things. I have left one out for a week of real,
real time. Like just left my PS4 on for a week. They never trigger anything. So there's literally
no repercussion for killing anyone in Metal Gear solid, at least like, you know, you'd lose points
or like you would make the end longer and Metal Gear solid three. Like there were all sorts of
reasons not to kill people. You could get more things at the end and a better score and everything.
Like I said, but in Death Stranding, there's no reason and it's not even satisfying to kill people
or like tranquilize them or whatever. And it's just, there's no reason to use stealth because
it's so out of the way. There's a million and one problems. I'm done talking about it. No one
mentioned Death Stranding anymore. I'm done with it. Let's fucking move on. Yeah, we, we just keep
dragging you back into it. It's definitely not something you're bringing up. That is true.
Someone said heart. Someone said Hartman and it just fucking triggered me.
Family and I saw the rise of Skywalker dad fell asleep board. Mum was confused throughout my
sister unironically thinks it's one of the worst written movies and this just ends with a smiley
face and rag. Hey, yeah, I feel all through. It's a me. Hello. Yeah. Hi rags. Hey. And hello.
All my lengthoids hope y'all have a great new year and bend Quentin over and spank his naked peepee.
I got drunk today. No, I know. I got drunk today and made a tutorial for an Irish coffee.
So I'm drunk and happy. Jay Longbone, more onion boy vids, please. Um, she might make another one,
considering the stuff is having with Chris Hansen, right? Like who knows? Oh, my God.
Lenti to work with, uh, Quintin's voice softens like he's lost all confidence while saying how
easy it is to make fun of Nazis. Like he's worried the KKK and ER next door and we'll beat
him up and take his lunch money. I think it's safe to assume that was the case.
She's not a power ranger. She's a common rider. Is that an animal?
Common rider. That sounds like an animal. Yeah, it's basically like power Rangers, but, uh,
I think it's like the OG one. It's still going to this day. I don't know anything about it,
except it's like live action and like really over the top and ridiculous comedic fans.
Fans are very out there. They must be destroyed.
Um, Quintin's being very Nazi ski with this hatred, hatred for the Nazis.
Nazi ski, not Nazi ish, I think is what they probably would want.
Yeah, he was. He became very Nazi ish and he hated women. He hated different races. It was
disgusting. Quintin get some help. That is, that's my opinion. You can't say it's wrong.
Of course it was supposed to be Rose power Rangers are Asian.
Danny DeVito kissing Finn and TLJ would have made it the best movie ever.
Oh dude, I would have paid to see that trading out of Rose Tico in the world, but Danny DeVito
in TLJ, I would actually, on a wrong, you say that movie was awesome.
Just like running around the death star. Well, the, the supremacy with Finn and stuff,
he's in the casino planet. Can you imagine reacting to all the aliens in the casino
planet? That'd be so great. Whoa.
Who wants to, wants to play dice. They get arrested for a parking ticket in that movie.
So you get arrested for a parking violation. Yeah.
Yeah. Is it bad for any reminder that desk bullshit is a black woman.
Where did that come from? Is that a meme that I missed?
Was that from the, maybe it was.
I don't know.
Everything is blending together.
Anyone see Esquire's top 40 Star Wars characters list?
Babu Frick and the, yeah, I know. Right. Babu Frick and the cantina band guys were ahead of
Mon Mothma and Qui-Gon was only one spot above Jin Erso. Kill me. Oh, well.
Babu Frick should have been number one, obviously.
Obviously.
The cantina band. I guess you could draw them in for number one. I'm okay with that.
But no, I had not seen that list. General Pride was also supposed to be Rose.
You should just do this with all characters. Like fucking General Pride, man. All of his
scenes. Everyone knows that was supposed to be Rose Tico.
Rose Tico would have made a beautiful General Pride.
Hello, all my Ewoks. Well, that tells you where we are in the stream.
Oh my goodness.
Damn you both for making me think of Quentin's pee pee and nip chocolate.
Pee pee and nip chocolate. You're welcome.
I couldn't fucking stand Palpatine in episode nine. It was obviously supposed to be Rose
and Ray was several spots above Luke on that Esquire list.
What? They put Ray above Luke.
No, they didn't. What? How does Ray be anybody?
Level. Yes, but they put Ray above Luke.
Apparently. Check it out. Esquire's top 40 Star Wars characters.
If you just Google that, tell me if they put Ray above Luke.
Hello, all my E words.
Rinker is streaming right now about T.R.O.S.
Is he now? Yeah.
Is he now? Oh.
He's still streaming.
Oh, I think he's finished now.
Four hours. What a long man.
Yes, you know, you know, we call that a good start.
Jay Longbone, please give each chat an n-word pass.
Thank you. Oh, she would. She's already provided several, I believe.
You just you can you guys can see it next to your seats.
If you just pick up that pass, you will restock them as well.
She likes to.
Would this arch chud Quentin like or hate gay villains?
And does that make him homophobic either way?
Yeah, that's that's tough.
On one hand, it's diverse.
On the other hand, you've made them bad guys.
So you just already.
What do you guys reckon?
Is that a win or a lose for the progressive crowd?
A gay villain?
I don't know.
I wish they had like rules and standards we could use to judge.
But that's it's a lose because what they'll say is that further villainizes
gays as being like a like a like a rogue sort of.
God, what's the word?
I saw an exact thread about it where people were saying like
it makes it seem like it's it's this sort of alternate culture of like depravity and and.
It is though.
It is though, but.
Yeah, just it would like paint gays and because there was like a big thread about
Disney villains or or whatever, just like villains as a whole and all the
whether there's a gay villain that like further dehumanizes them or something.
I think that's the line.
Of course.
Yeah.
What series do you think has the most satisfying finale?
And you can't say Breaking Bad.
Everyone says that.
Which one of the Jedi ended in 1983?
Well, do they mean TV alone?
Are we allowed movies or no?
If it's the question again, sorry.
Most satisfying ending to a TV show.
And I guess we can open it up to movie series if you want.
Hmm.
Can I include anime?
No, we mean content.
We mean real stuff.
I'm sorry.
Real content.
Good media.
You know what I mean?
Like.
Because anime was just just terrible.
Just awful.
That's all that's left.
It's evil is what I might say.
But yeah, satisfying endings.
That's tough.
There's hardly any long running TV shows that end satisfying
ways.
I would go with Angel probably.
I liked how.
Funnily enough, I liked how The Office US ended.
It was quite a nice ending for a show that was sort of fine.
I liked, by the way, is it like the obvious choice is Breaking Bad?
I like Breaking Bad's ending.
I wasn't particularly like over the top shocked or anything
by it in terms of how good it was.
So I was just like, yep, this felt about right.
Oh, everything dies.
The meteor hits and no one sees it coming.
I expected some character deaths, but literally the whole human race,
man, I just seemed over the top.
The community TV show, the end of season five, they don't know if
they're getting renewed, like in terms of the actual production and stuff.
And like the last episode when the character says like,
I wonder if we're going to make it in terms of like, implying for the next year,
next season sort of thing.
And I think a character says like, well, if we if we don't meet your hit,
and that would be canon.
Just like, what was it?
What about Buffy?
I'm 50 50 on Buffy's ending.
I like it enough.
I also dislike a lot of things about it, but Angel's is like fucking perfect.
I don't think of what.
But the problem is so many TV shows don't end well
because they sort of sputter out when they end.
Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to fucking go against the rules here
because it is technically TV.
But the anime erased or book ducky guy in a machi,
which technically translates to the town in which only I do not exist.
Chernobyl ended well.
Chernobyl.
Yeah, that's a statement I never thought I would say.
It's interesting because you raised.
Race had an ending that was in the anime that was like really bad because they rushed it.
But if you read the manga or watch like the Netflix live action adaptation,
it really it's like a very whole complete ending for it sort of like wraps up all the loose ends.
And that's the only thing that comes to mind off the top of my head.
I can't really think of anything else that ended super neatly in a satisfying way.
Obviously, Breaking Bad.
But I think what I like the most about Breaking Bad was that towards the end,
everything just devolved so suddenly with everyone hating Walter.
Wow, spoiling it for y'all.
What the fuck?
It's from it's like fucking a decade old at this point.
Wow.
I care.
Even though he asked you specifically.
He did ask you.
He was going at this guy's mouth saying that the Netflix adaptation was improving.
I mean, that's I haven't seen it.
People have it looked like shit because it was live action.
And every time Japanese people try to portray anime characters live action,
it's always a nightmare.
But in terms of like the story, like being more complete.
Yeah, it was supposedly an improvement.
We'll see if you trauma ended really well.
They lost episodes.
Good shit.
Any other suggestions for anybody?
Episodes that ended satisfyingly.
I don't watch that many shows.
That's the thing.
Yeah, I think we've we've given the same enough answer.
I think we did.
Okay.
Yeah.
All in order, saved Star Wars for me after watching Rise of Skywalker.
I played it and it reminded me of what Star Wars is and what it can be.
It isn't great, but it made me want to watch the OT again.
I think Rise of Skywalker is bombing.
Thanks, JJ.
I don't think it's bombing from what I've seen.
It's not bombing.
If not, it's doing fine.
If not doing pretty good, I think.
From what I've seen on updates about just box office,
which isn't it's not a huge surprise.
I was just hoping it wouldn't go above a billion
because it would show that things are changing slowly.
A benchmark people pay attention to.
Yeah.
Like cracking a billion means that you you're doing something great.
And it's like, but they're not though.
This super chat says hour three.
So that's where we're at guys.
Made it three hours into the stream now.
While we are eight hours and 45 minutes into it.
So getting there.
If they wanted Asian representation, they'd have a character,
a Chinese character who didn't like the other black characters or the gays.
There you go.
Yeah, everyone wins.
No, you have to have a character that's just the best possible.
Did you ever see?
Fuck what's his name?
Not Patrice O'Neill, but the guy who voiced Ratatouille.
What's his name?
Patton Oswalt.
Patton Oswalt.
He had a great bit where he was talking about.
I want to play a gay character on a sitcom or like I want to write a gay character on a sitcom.
But no one will ever pick it up because he has to be the most like every gay character.
It's like sassy and resourceful and witty.
And it must put a lot of pressure on gay gay people in real life.
So I just want to make him absolutely useless.
Like he just never has any he's always just crude and perverted.
And like, there's nothing redeeming about him.
Oh, obviously he hates gay people then.
Yeah.
Star Wars Nazis, Mr. Quinton.
This is Domino's.
Oh, yeah.
He just he rants to whoever's going to listen, I guess.
Clearly he meant his wife's husband's kids.
Oh, yeah.
Clearly, clearly.
Is this a troll video?
Is Quinton trying satire again?
No, no, this was genuine.
I would assume I can't know for certain, but I guess some.
Yeah, you could hear the genuine resignation in his voice.
Mm hmm.
I would have liked it if Rose had an angry rant at Finn tearfully asking why he'd rather sniff
after some of the skinny bitch who barely remembers he exists while he's not around.
Rose should hate Ray.
I think everybody should really be frustrated with her.
I like you know what's funny about it, right?
In the opening of the film, Poe is pissed at her because she's not like focusing her efforts
correctly or what you would say correctly as in like they're fledgling the resistance
against the First Order.
They're going on these missions and stuff and she's just fucking around.
I'm watching him be like, you know, what are you doing?
Like you need to help us.
I was like, man, that's like genuine conflict that makes sense because she's a fucking idiot
who doesn't know what she's doing.
Yeah.
And she's really strong.
Like if if Rose like genuinely resented Ray and they had this like mini B plot about that,
I feel like I would actually add something.
Yeah, that would be interesting.
And at this point, it would be interesting.
I would like if we were trying to fix this, if I'd be like, we need so much more time
because I'd like to actually explore it like in a detailed way, have all these characters
have these like issues with her that he presenting and she picks up on it.
And then she's just like, he's a partially convinced.
They're just jealous of the fact that she's so powerful.
Then it's it's also maybe it is also that maybe some people really are like,
how is it that you got to be so powerful?
It's not fair and stuff like that.
And it's like, oh, my God, character conflict.
What in the world?
Remember that?
And when they did that or hooray, hooray, imagine the LGBT scene,
but they're just fucking there.
It's just two of them having sex in the middle of the celebration.
Just making like a pair of shears right on the next wing.
Now, just like an extended like 10 minute long,
a passionate like voyeuristic sex scene in the middle of the group.
And it's it's celebrations.
You get like trumpets,
there was cheering and then hard cut to passion at 10 minute sex and then cut back.
It's just hard, like just the only person really watching is Lando.
Like everyone else is ignoring it, except him.
He's just going.
Did you guys notice how many times in the movie Lando would just say something and then go?
Yeah, it seemed like that's what they could get him to do.
Well, was just laugh.
Let's do it, Chewy.
Yeah, you did that already.
Yeah, because they cut they cut to him when he first arrives,
he does that.
And then when they cut to him later, when he's like, we're going to pick them up
because Poe is like, I'm really fast.
Don't worry that he's like, not as fast as us.
Let's do it, Chewy.
It's all really funny to you, isn't it, Lando?
Lando, this is very serious, dude.
He's just fucking senile.
He's barely there.
I'll always hate TLJ over Riser Skywalker.
Riser Skywalker is damage control for TLJ.
If it weren't for TLJ, we probably wouldn't be in this mess.
Yes.
Again, there's a lot of rationales for picking the newest film,
and I don't necessarily think any of them are invalid or anything.
It's just really interesting to see people try and pick.
Yeah, I have the reverse rationale.
Yeah, I have.
I think that being so shamelessly like anti-Star Wars,
TLJ is just slightly more respectable.
What, you think Riser Skywalker is anti-Star Wars?
Well, I think they're all anti-Star Wars, fundamentally,
but that's more pandering, more deceptive.
That's what I'm trying to get at.
Ryan Johnson clearly just wanted to subvert what came before.
I kind of respect that in a little bit.
Swit away.
Oh, I'm kind of the opposite.
I think that Ryan Johnson is far more malicious of an actor than JJ Abrams is.
I just think JJ just can't tell stories, and he's terrible at making movies.
I think Ryan Johnson specifically really tried to.
This is what I mean about the complex nature of this discussion,
because it's like, is JJ worse for having propped up the corpse of the OT
that he's essentially undertaken and been like,
look, he's still alive.
Look, he's just like you remember him.
Or is Ryan worse for pissing on the corpse and setting it on fire,
but being open about it?
He's like, that's what I've just done.
It's like, there's lots of ways you can sort of break it down.
As far as I'm concerned, I still think TLJ is the one
that I would have the most issue with out of the three of the sequels,
just because of the fact that just seems to come from a creator
that wanted to fuck Star Wars into the dirt.
Just fuck it.
Piece of shit show.
You need to be this now, because Star Wars is broken,
as it is anyway, or something.
While JJ was trying to pretty up this mess and resell it,
which is gross still.
But it's just, I guess it's down to the original person,
what you really think about it.
Yeah, no, I gotta.
Shit's fucked, yo.
They're both, they both pretty much fucked it.
No, I agree with that for sure.
Ryan Johnson is slightly more open.
It was obvious about what he was doing.
So was Hitler.
He did nothing.
I would think that you under, I guess that explains why,
you know, you kind of understand, you know.
Sympathizes with Ryan because he's also a fan of Hitler.
He's worried about Hitler.
I was saying, the man had ideas.
Yeah, I get it.
Like the idea that he's trying to do something significant
and different and everything.
It's just that, holy shit.
Like, I think they both fail miserably at trying
to achieve what they wanted to.
And so it's almost like we like,
so what are the motivations?
Then we can decide who the worst one is.
Like the guy was just trying to resell nostalgia
or the guy who was trying to destroy
and rebuild something else.
And I just don't appreciate the whole destroy part at all.
I think he's an asshole.
Go make your own fucking thing for the decrepit old man
who hates everything and betrayed his family.
Go have fun with that in your own movie.
Where are the Knights of Wren and the other padawans
that were taken from Jedi Training Temple in TLJ?
That means Ben finished the job he started.
So I guess the Knights of Wren were just like,
because they seem to be hanging out
in one of the flashbacks in the padawan place.
Yeah.
Oh, is that just-
What was it?
They're like a bit with where Luke was with R2
and then Kylo and the Knights of Wren were there.
Maybe that's just like a fuck up combination
of memories or something rather than,
what the fuck was the Knights of Wren?
What even was that?
They were, what were they?
Where were they from?
A bunch of dudes.
Are they Jedi?
Are they force sensitive?
They don't have lightsabers.
Bunch of dudes with some weapons that Kylo,
because he said like, I'm taking my Knights
and it's like, you're Knights.
So like you, are they like-
You're their leader?
The mercenaries that you hired or something?
I don't know what to think.
I haven't been given enough information to think things.
It's fucked.
By the time Quinton has kids, lol.
Hey man, you know.
Impossible things can just happen.
It's not impossible.
I could rape someone.
Oh wow.
Not caught up with the stream.
So don't know if you have already talked about this
or answered the question,
but what are all of your thoughts on the Witcher show?
Personally, I did not like it.
I have not seen it.
We haven't seen it.
I haven't at least.
Kind of on our watch list, sort of.
I haven't seen it.
I'm curious.
A bit poisoned against Netflix, so.
I heard people saying that,
I heard people saying that like.
They sort of.
Like they got a lot of the characters wrong in the Netflix show.
I heard people saying Gerald says like nothing at all.
Gerald?
Yeah, Gerald.
What did I say?
Gerald?
What did I say?
I said Gerald.
I just didn't say Gerald.
Gerald.
There's no Gerald, is it?
I thought it was.
It was Gerald.
Gerald.
Yeah, it is.
I just don't care about the Witcher.
You're a bad person, obviously.
I mean, probably.
Is that it?
Is that all you're going to say?
Yeah, pretty much.
Basically.
All right.
Terrible.
There you go.
We'll check it out at some point and then have things to say.
All right.
Red worship the actual blade of the lightsaber.
Also, you got JJ retconned the entire routine.
Rise of Skywalker to retell the same story from the narrative
of a woman.
I'd say that's worse.
Again, you got a lot of things that have been murdered and destroyed
and they didn't in TLJ as well.
Again, not saying the blame doesn't go to both.
Wouldn't want to imply that at all.
But, you know, TLJ was one that broke the whole force ghosts thing.
It broke hyperspace, broke space battles, broke Luke.
I would argue TFA broke a whole bunch more.
You really think pretty much undid every victory from Return of the Jedi.
Palpatine was still dead, though, and the Empire re-rising.
I actually do think it's possible for the Empire to coalesce
after the destruction of the Emperor.
The context was always going to decide exactly how much damage they actually did.
TFA was quote unquote smart to not be definitive about how specific things happened.
They ruined Han.
They were very definitive about that.
But exactly what the First Order are and how they rose and who Snoke is,
these were things that could have made it a lot easier to digest.
But after the three films, it's as simple as they're just the Empire.
The Empire and the Emperor still exists.
None of it was good.
Yeah, they're all disasters.
It's just really hard to pick out the worst one.
The question about her parentage was never about who they were.
She wanted to meet them and eventually got over it at the end of TFA.
Their identity was relevant for the story, not necessarily for Rey.
You didn't really get over it, though, if you consider TLJ.
Unless is that what we're talking about?
Because TFA, I would happily agree that she essentially gets over it
from the vague amount of time we spent with her about it.
But TLJ, it just resets.
Doesn't Kylo and her, they discuss the whole sort and thingy,
and then you're now going to try and find it in Luke, whatever.
Just the parentage thing.
It's such a nightmare to actually go through
because all three films have such a different idea
on exactly what's going on with her parents-wise.
Thanks to you guys, I tripled my grade on my final analytic essay from last year
from a 28 to an 80, 92 without errors.
Keep it up.
Excellent.
That's awesome.
That's really good to hear.
Glad to hear you're putting it to use.
Uh, no one expects the dog cockroach inquisition.
Oh yeah, when that just randomly popped up.
Yeah.
Finish the dog video, damn it.
Go back to the dog video.
Even its ass is better than Quinton's face.
Damn.
Can we see what Eric butts-
I mean-
Yeah, I figured that we'd probably be okay with that as a statement.
Any disagreements here, guys?
As for finishing the dog video?
No, just the dogs butt would be a better look than Quinton's face.
Of course.
Absolutely it would be.
I mean, yeah.
I have no idea what this video is, but I have to assume, yeah.
Yeah, just go with it.
Can we see what Eric butts thought of Rise of Skywalker?
Again, I don't know that it'll be interesting to watch.
I think it's just going to be him being like,
yeah, I mean, we could watch the first bit off stream and see if it's-
Yeah, we can give it the old checkeroo, see what it's like.
If the first script used Mortis,
were Rey and Kylo going to be the mortal incarnations of the daughter and the son?
If so, JJ copied Zelda Skyward Sword.
Perhaps he did.
Perhaps he did.
What's with the weird sex doll in the background?
He's got a video on it.
He apparently crowdfunded buying a sex doll.
I don't know why, but that's something that happened.
Back from lumberjacking again.
No poison oak this time.
Good to see you guys live again.
Hope you're doing well.
Oh, and Sans is in Smash Brothers.
Excellent.
I had no idea.
Rey and Harry Potter are both Mary Sues.
One is just in a better book.
Is Harry Potter and Mary Sue in this thing?
Is Harry Potter and Mary Sue in this thing?
Doesn't he get fucked up a lot?
There's plenty of people haters.
I mean, even just like Rey, he dies, comes back.
Spoiler alert.
He might tick some boxes,
but I feel like she ticks a lot more than he does and a lot more consistently.
Doesn't he get bailed out by people a lot, like Hermione?
Yeah, but you can argue that's just part of his ability, really.
Oh yeah, all the time he gets bailed out.
There's always something around to save him, because he's the chosen one.
Ever noticed that the vast majority of Star Wars memes
come exclusively from episode three in the Clone Wars?
There's a few from episode one and two, right, I think?
I mean, yeah, the vast majority, though, yeah.
Story right.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Episode three's got some top memes.
Feed a different book.
Has a beginning, has an end.
Ripped off Shad's book.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
Got him.
My phone screen last cracked then his mind.
My phone screen last cracked then his mind.
Oh, I get it.
Phone screen is less cracked than his mind.
I understand.
Your Voldemort's grandson, Harry.
That could have been a big reveal.
It would have improved it, naturally, assuming Voldemort was a clone.
And he had made a clone just sit in his throne.
He fucked snakes.
Star Wars a rip-off of Harry Potter?
What are these dumbasses gonna say next?
Vader's a rip-off of Robocop?
I get that right.
Why are the sex dolls hands twisted all the way around?
Reverse hand job.
The implications of what Quinton did to that doll's hands in order to cripple him.
How do you review a set?
You will have to have fucked it in order to have a review of it.
I haven't seen his video on it.
I don't know if he says that.
But that's gotta be what he does, right?
I think it's natural that someone will do that.
And yeah, Chase, would you like to talk a bit about your channel
before you end up ejecting your tisms?
Tisms?
Yeah, I review video games and rarely anime.
My mic sounds a little bit better on my channel than it does on streams for some reason.
Uh, I don't know.
I just cover stuff that I like.
I usually go into detail about whether they're really good or really bad or somewhere in the middle.
And I use a lot of art from a very talented artist that I pay money to.
And I try to make it entertaining at least, even if you disagree with me.
But more importantly than that, Go Buy Monster Hunter World, Iceborne, the expansion pack,
is coming out January, is very good.
It is a thoroughly enjoyable hack and slash action game with, if you don't mind grinding,
it's very, very good.
And yeah, down with the blacks.
So that's it.
Oh, that's neat.
Oh, that's great.
That's right.
Note to end on.
Yeah, link in the chat and in the description.
There's plenty of videos to have a look through.
See if you find someone to either agree on or get pissed at him for.
Either way, very depreciate it.
If you want a good barometer for whether or not you'll enjoy my content, go watch my evil
within video.
I had to disable comments temporarily because everyone's being a fucking idiot.
But yeah, if you can make it through that video, I sure did.
I silenced them forever.
You took their rights away.
But yeah, thanks for having me, though.
It was really fun.
I had a very good time.
Thanks for coming.
For nine hours.
Yeah, I was good hearing you talk like 15 times.
Very enlightening.
Very interesting.
Thank you.
And thank you, chat, for enduring my fucking spurg about death stranding.
And I'm sorry.
It's all right.
We shall see you around, Mr.
Chase.
All right.
Bye.
Later.
Thank God he's gone.
Thank God.
Now we can have some fun.
Yes.
All right.
Speaking of fun.
Here we go.
All of Leia's scenes should have been Rose ones.
You can argue the Rose.
Rose trains.
Rey.
Rose enters the force to try and convince Kylo not to kill Rey.
And you're like, I don't what?
That's why he was so confused when he drops his saber.
He was just like, what the fuck?
Like, who are you?
Why are you?
And she's like, Kylo, don't kill Rey.
It all makes sense.
Don't be a fucking bitch.
There is an Amazon show with a possessed protagonist coming out in a little while,
and it might be awesome.
All right.
Some toxic supremacy bucks for you, Massives.
I have to train someone all night looking forward to the 36-hour quintantisms.
They were...
Tismy, indeed.
Put a baby in me.
Palpatine and Rey's body.
Oh, I don't know if that's how that works, but...
Palpatine's just force healed his sheave, duh, quintan.
You can't heal yourself, right?
Because that wouldn't...
Surely that wouldn't make sense.
Or can you?
How does that work?
Maybe if you have one of them pair of bonds, force bonds, the adds.
Could you?
That's off your own arm and heal it so that it grows a person out of it.
And then that person heals you to get your arm back to full power.
Oh, God.
Could you imagine they introduced that eventually,
because they're just bored at this point.
They want to fuck around.
I don't know.
This is just a thing now.
He's too dangerous to be kept alive.
This isn't the Jedi way.
Tell you what, I'll let you break one Jedi code if you let me kill him.
Can I marry Senator Padme Amidala?
That's suspiciously specific, but all right deal.
Saga over.
Well, not quite, because he assumed she would be dying regardless, you know?
He'd still be upset about it all, but...
I wouldn't have mad anyway.
Mace would have killed...
What, a clone?
Or he would have hurt him to the point where he thinks he's dead only for him to survive.
People thinking they can kill Palpatine.
How silly.
Hmm.
Would have been better if they'd had Rey die and Kylo redeem himself and beat Palpatine.
Would have made the ending scene better too,
for him to become a hermit and take the Skywalker name.
Um.
Since he's already a Skywalker, I mean...
Yeah, technically.
So, I kind of agree.
I like the idea of Rey...
Like, unironically right.
I was like, Rey dying, I think would have made for a better ending.
Well, yeah.
Just, god, is she such a worthless character?
Uh, characters survive things they shouldn't knives solve plot problems.
Villain is killed easily.
Selfish main female who is sexually attracted to her nephew.
This is just Game of Thrones with space wizards.
Ironic.
Tootra.
Imagine if it turned out Hitler was just a puppet and it was Kaiser Wilhelm all along,
and the pause of World War II doesn't matter.
I thought that's what they were going to do.
I don't remember the expectations.
Yeah.
Palpatine was going to, like, send Rey back in time, back to World War II.
I thought that was going to be the ending they went with, but I guess not.
Episode 12 needs to end with Sheev's lightning being redirected back into his face.
It's the most consistent theme of the third movie of each trilogy.
Oh, yeah.
Did you catch that?
He's had, like, his lightning up in his face at the end of all three trilogies now.
Yeah.
Yeah, I guess it wore him down each time until it blew him up, like.
Just couldn't handle it the third time.
I had a seizure when I saw the Ewoks.
I just, when I saw them, I was just like, ugh, whatever.
How would you guys fix this trilogy?
How do you fix this trilogy?
You just have to delete it, right?
It's too late.
Yeah, you bored it.
You've got to get rid of it.
You can't fix all three of these movies' damage.
It's insane.
Like, if you're talking about keeping it all canon and then moving on,
it's like, how the hell do you do that?
Why would you want to do that?
I think you'd just be like, hey, that's all it, you know,
what do they do with Star Trek?
The something timeline or whatever?
Just call it like a timeline of some kind.
I'm here.
What am I sorry, the door?
That's all right.
We were just saying, Super Chat asked, how would you fix this trilogy?
And I was like, start from beginning.
Right.
Because I don't think it's possible to fix it,
but I think that to try and avoid pissing everyone off,
this will still piss people off that love TLJ, whatever,
but you call it like the Ray timeline or something like that.
You'd be like, yeah, that's totally a storyline.
Yes, totally.
Anyway, we're going to take go from episode six to a different place now.
We're going to call it the whatever else timeline,
you know, so that you don't necessarily have to decan.
A thousand years in the future.
Yeah, probably.
For instance, the things that the Roman Empire
did have a lasting impact on the world today.
Let's go a thousand years in the Star Wars future.
And all of the stuff that our beloved characters did,
it still has an impact on the galaxy.
It was very, very important,
but you don't have to fuck with it in order to have that happen.
It became legendary.
And yeah, worst case scenario though,
I should be like, yeah, just decanonize it.
Fuck it.
If enough time passes, I think people will get over it.
Like, sorry, we're decanonizing it.
It's fine.
Let's make a new one.
And it doesn't have to, yeah,
it doesn't have to have anything to do with the characters of the OT.
What up my Ewok words?
Thoughts on rain of fire.
Maybe Efap movies.
Hi, Rags.
Hey, I haven't seen that in a long time.
I'd be interested in checking it out again.
Very cool movie and surprisingly good effects in certain parts.
I rewatched it with Wolf about a year ago
and we were both like, wow, there's some shots in this movie.
The dragons are fucking great.
Even though it's really old.
Some not so much though.
It's like 50-50.
But yeah, this is a fine movie.
There's a couple of tisms in it.
But I liked it a lot.
You masses had to start.
Well, go ahead, sorry.
I've never seen it.
It's the premise is dragons essentially take over the world.
It's a post-apocalyptic movie where dragons are just everywhere.
Someone in my server said, asked if I could say,
Quinton eats dirty wieners.
So there you go.
There you go.
Now back to rain of fire.
I remember it.
I remember liking it.
It's just, it's been so long since I've seen it.
You masses had to start while I was working.
Oh, well, take my paycheck.
Oh, long man.
Good.
Thank you.
Hi, rags.
Hey.
Hi, ER.
Hello.
Hi, weekend warrior and Jay Longbone.
Sorry, I'm not familiar with you, Chase.
Ifap is the best gift of the year.
Why, I'm glad you have enjoyed.
It has been a wonderful year of ifapping.
The entire trilogy was stuff happening without the natural consequences.
So Finn stares in horror at his fellow soldier dying
and then shouts woo while he gleefully murders
the rest of them in the rest of the trilogy.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
Also hi, rags.
Awesome.
Hello.
Hello, my memestick brood.
Meme, memestick brood.
I'm going right.
I would like to recommend the video or book that discuss all the unique weaponry
that the knights of Ren possess in the movie,
but still get their asses kicked by one guy.
Yeah, but he's Kylo.
Yeah, I mean, they, their weapons, they can't deal with a lightsaber.
Like they're fucked.
If you have a bunch of guys with blasters.
Oh, yeah.
What I was trying to say is like, is like, no matter.
Let's say you go like super skilled karate man
versus guy with lightsaber.
It'd be pretty tough for karate man to do anything.
And then you, you include the fact that karate man has like an axe.
You're like, okay, that's something.
But lightsaber man is extremely experienced and powerful now.
He also has telekinesis.
You're like, uh, yeah, they're not winning.
Remember that bit rags where he puts the sword at his back and waits for someone to hit it.
And they do.
Yes.
Weird.
Really weird.
That is really weird.
What are they going to do against a guy with a gun?
Aaron supported Zutara.
Wake up, Senpai.
That's not conclusive, but yeah, it's not looking good.
That's pretty much the real of Avatar.
Oh, I know.
I know pieces of that.
Thanks to your videos.
I'm, I am a weird, passive, uh, observer of the Avatar world.
At this point, I will become fully inaugurated soon enough.
I'm sure.
Yes, you will.
Officer.
What did he look like?
Quinton.
He was an Ewok and tall white shirt.
Jean shorts officer Ewok.
Quinton.
He had dark skin.
Oh, my God.
The lines, I am all the Sith and I am all the Jedi sound like what a couple of three
year olds playing fighting would say.
I have laser gun.
Yeah.
Well, I have anti laser shield.
Shake my head.
Yes.
It's pretty awful.
Just wanted to say as a diabetic boy, I find the diabetes memes to be insanely hilarious.
Also, Merry Xmas, everybody.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Merry Xmas.
And I'm glad you're enjoying the memes.
Uh, well, that's all you need.
Quinton after five seconds of sex.
Oh, that's his apparently that's his catchphrase.
It's that I'm Quinton reviews and that's all you need.
That's what he says.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Also, someone just pointed out he advertises Patreon that takes a month off.
I guess they'll wait.
Diabeto says it's eight out of ten.
His blood sugar blood sugar level is high.
I think you'll come down on that because of all of his like respected friends.
Hating the movie.
He's probably like, okay, okay, maybe.
E.R.
If a third avatar series opened with a social Darwinist village killing Cora in a fight.
Villains are not village killing Cora in a fight and the new avatar has a brother.
Would you watch it?
You had me for killing Cora, but I don't know what brother.
The new avatar has a brother.
Would you watch it?
Yeah, I'm not sure.
Hmm.
Or over time for that.
I don't know what the rest of it.
We've made it to four.
We did it.
You should get Dick Masterson on for your Mandalorian roast.
Yeah, does he hate it or like it or?
I don't know.
I'll try and get him on at some point.
I believe he said he's up for it.
I think he's also invited me to call into his show at some point to figure it out.
Ryan Johnson is the kind of guy to play telephone
and purposefully change the phrase to subvert your expectations.
Yes, my last request to the prison guard.
I want to watch all of Efap before my execution.
Also, hi Rags.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
And I don't know if they'll grant that request, but hopefully we'll have made enough by then
that it'll take you so long to finish them while we're still making more
that you can die of old age first.
Hooray!
Movie Bob needs his Disney health insurance.
8 out of 10.
I mean, it's just, like I said, it's just odd to me.
I really don't get how he gave it that rating, but all right.
I was nine in 77.
I have been at every movie with my brother then and since.
The Last Jedi killed that.
I no longer care.
We just gave up.
Sad, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, let me.
Let me.
This will be right back.
Eeyar's take is this review makes him long for death.
It's only natural.
Yes.
Don't worry.
A lot of people feel that way.
It's fun.
So Eeyar, does the rise of Skyle Waker finally answer the JQ?
Or will we have to wait for a different film to finally deal with them?
Hi, Ragakin.
The Jedi question?
The Jedi question, yeah.
Well, it appears that Rey is off the Jedi.
There you go.
And they all.
Yeah, they all went into her.
I guess I don't know what that means for the Jedi question.
Exactly.
Consentually.
Well, that she seemed to be pretty unconscious sort of.
Steering at the sky.
I don't know.
Yeah, that's a little messy.
Do you wipe standing from front to back?
How many?
No, it's not typically standing.
No, front to back.
I mean, you know, maybe experiment.
Standing.
Why not side to side about that?
Do people try that?
I don't know.
And in terms of how many, maybe sometimes just do half of one.
See how it feels.
Just that.
Or seven, several billion.
English is not my first language, but I can understand Ben Shapiro just fine.
Movie Blob, however.
Or Movie Bob, sorry.
They actually didn't say Movie Blob.
That's just automatically thrown in now, apparently.
However, it gives me brain cancer.
Thank you so much, Mauler, for how you talk in your videos.
It's a joy to listen.
Oh, I'm glad you enjoy it.
Sorry that I can't stay.
I'm going off to make some content, but have some money.
Also say hi to Shad for me.
I'm trying my hand at writing.
Good stuff.
And absolutely.
Shad always likes a hello, I believe.
You guys seen the Obi-Wan Vader reimagined fight?
I have.
It's pretty neat.
I haven't.
Pernony?
I guess it's like a fan-made thing with a sort of...
It's much more dynamic, the fight.
Much less like two old dudes with sticks.
Ah, I see.
Cinema Roberto's diabetes and bad complexion are a warning sign
about swallowing everything Hollywood gives you.
I'm looking at you too, Kevin Spacey.
Oh.
Belch.
In Rogue One, the Emperor or the Empire are mining the crystals
for the Death Star's weapon and needed shit-tons from that one place.
Where did they get the crystals to fuel those damn Star Destroyers if they were hidden?
Did you see the red letter media discussing that he like created those with the Force or whatever?
Like they were theorizing that he could just like generate Star Destroyers with the Force?
Oh!
I mean, honestly, it kind of looked like that, didn't it?
I just thought he...
They were built in an...
We don't fucking know.
I don't even know.
They don't like underground.
Yes!
Like were they built underground and he
Force-lifted all of them up from an underground cavern?
Which is pretty insane, but okay.
Kind of nuts.
Kind of nuts.
Not gonna lie.
My imagination is both fucking stupid.
Oh, yeah.
Then the idea that he can just generate them.
Thousands of Star Destroyers you can just generate.
He's like, whoa, that's uh...
Jesus.
An impressive power, to say the least.
And you wonder of what the additional applications of such a fucking thing would be.
But um...
I suppose we'll find out for sure in future installments where they totally tell us exactly
what all of it meant.
I watched Troy for the first time in six years and really enjoyed it.
I was curious who adapted the story into a screenplay
and David Benioff.
Can you tell...
Oh, wait.
Yeah, David Benioff and Dan Weiss, right?
That's the names of the Game of Thrones people.
This is the thing, man.
If anyone says like, can't believe they've actually made something out of joy.
It's like, well, hey, they did pretty well with Game of Thrones up to a point, so...
There's obviously...
We've got, you know, the people being like, uh,
Guy who made Joker made The Hangover movies.
We can't be that good.
And then you've got Ridley Scott made Prometheus and Alien.
It's like people are capable of doing great stuff and terrible stuff.
Yeah, they really are.
Also, can you tell Ia that I love him and ask if he likes the Fate series?
Iaar, this guy asked Super Chat.
He wanted to let you know that he loves you
and he wanted to ask what you think about the Fate series.
Uh, Fate series.
I didn't...
I haven't read it, but I've watched Fate Stay Night and Fate Zero.
And they're both pretty good.
Massives, we need a Mando review.
My opinion, the first season ended with a really rushed conclusion
and half of the episode should have been in season two.
Hope it improves, but I'd like to hear your thoughts.
I think that you're already off to a good start.
I feel like most of the episodes were crap.
The majority of them were filler.
The ending was kind of insane in terms of there's so much I'd have to criticize for it.
I really liked the first episode.
Yeah, I liked the first episode a whole lot.
Yeah, I liked the first two and the rest kind of petered off.
They should play MovieBob videos on repeat at CIA black site prisons to torture sand people.
Oh man.
They will beg for Rah, his roof.
Ah, my brothers alive again, good.
MovieBob plays hard rock because he has erectile dysfunction.
All right.
It all connects.
Yeah.
What do you think of the dragon prince?
Uh, yeah, that's because Aaron has wrote that
writer for Avatar, the Last Airbender.
It's not Avatar, the Last Airbender.
So I'm not really digging it.
This goes toward buying MovieBob.com.
Rather my money goes to MovieBob.com that a sex toy.
Yeah.
The MovieBob.com.
Ours is a good cause.
Spent this money to buy MovieBob.com to MovieBob.
Lob cause contributing to the cause to the MovieBob.com fund.
Use the super chat to buy cinema Roberto, the MovieBob.com hail.
I know right.
Two bucks towards buying MovieBob.com.
Honestly though, I seriously just like I would feel weird spending that
amount of money on a meme instead of like I would way prefer to just donate
all of this to the epap.me guy.
Yeah.
Honestly, if you guys want a good cause, that's, that's a good cause right there.
Just it's so much detail.
And so much.
Yeah.
The MovieBob.com for the MovieBob.com fund.
You massives have a good one.
My Ewoks so good.
Do it everyone.
MovieBob website is ours for the Bob.
Let's do this.
MovieBob.com will be ours.
This is my first donation for MovieBob.com.
Dab on MovieBob, buy it and picture of rags asking for his monthly thrust.
They just go to MovieBob.com because they love MovieBob.
They just see this fucking dog with that so pretty.
You're like, Oh, Bob, what is this?
Oh, no, Bob.
Buy it buddy for Bob Tube.
Buy cinema Roberto don't lol for the for the ball.
Oh, buy it.
MovieBob money for MovieBob.com.
I help for cinema Roberto fund.
I ain't no bitch.
Let's follow this up for the MovieBob.
Do it.
Buy MovieBob.com you Ewoks.
The MovieBob.
I kind of want to do it for 95 bucks to go.
I'll write for the Diabeto comic.
I swear the hate bobbers of the toxic chuds.
Let's buy Bob hub.
Bob.
Oh, please buy the domain.
Please for MovieBob.com.
Also, Hello rags.
Hello to for movie to for MovieBob and rags any divinity original sin two tips.
Um, honestly, I would experiment with a lot of mods.
The base game is pretty good, but I think some of there's a particular overhead overhaul mod.
Let me actually see if I can look it up real quick.
That really does a lot to make the game fresh and interesting.
I would say that yeah, experiment with mods that you think are fun.
Try to do everything.
Do every fight.
Do every mission.
It helps out a lot.
Do what you can to, you know, to lock up enemies with disabling ability.
So freeze them, stun them, you know, that sort of thing as much as you possibly can.
You want to really make the turn economy go in your favor.
Prepare a lot.
I mean, there's a lot that goes into that game.
It's hard to just start naming stuff, but those would probably be the basics.
Oh, auto save all the time.
F5 F5 F5 all the time before every fight.
Do an auto save.
Let me let me let me go to Steam here and look at the mods because while I'm here,
I want to I do want to let you know about it.
Divinity original sin 2.
Now let's go to the workshop.
Let's see my file, subscribed items.
I would do things like there's a lot of little stuff.
Combat luck, faster casting mages, summoning tweaks.
I have 35% harder classic mode.
Stuff like that to balance out all the other mods.
I'm looking through my list here.
I wish there's an easy way to sort it.
It doesn't seem like you can.
Go ahead and carry on and I'll look through this.
And once I get it, I will let you know.
Eye helping.
Rags love the quickly down under reference.
Oh yeah, man.
I'm glad you did.
I'm glad that there are people out there who know it.
Do it.
Hashtag efapping to Bob for the movie Bob fund.
Also 86% Rotten Tomatoes score has been stuck at 86 for thousands of reviews.
Almost like Rotten Tomatoes froze it at that.
Yeah.
I mean, if you ask me, do you have definitive proofs?
Like no.
Do you believe it's been tampered with?
Absolutely.
Oh yeah, there is.
I don't believe it for a second.
Okay.
The mod is a DoS2 divine war.
And I think there's a divine war compatibility patch that goes along with it.
Subscribe to those.
They have some really, really good overhauls of the attribute system,
armor, things like that.
I'm going through a play through most recently with this on.
And I think that it's a fantastic way to go through the game.
So go for it.
And then as you play, because the first, the first file you have
probably won't be the one you beat it on.
You'll play through and you'll play through and you'll play through.
And you'll probably notice things that you'd like to change along the way.
And then just get mods for it and kind of make the game that is most fun for you to play.
Just keep it tough.
Keep it challenging.
There's good mods that make it more difficult as well as give you more options.
And a lot of good quality of life improvements for you.
But feel free to experiment with those.
Go for it and just enjoy it.
All right.
This goes to buying MovieBob.
Other Super Chat might not have gone through.
If I read it, it went through, I guess.
Buy it and make it the eFap website, you cowards.
I mean, I think that would be funny too.
Um, I could probably talk to Kebecans about potentials for that, um, to like
take MovieBob.com and just have it redirect maybe.
There's, there's, there's things we can do here.
Um, for MovieBob.
The MovieBob Fund.
For the MovieBob Fund.
Funds to secure MovieBob.
For the MovieBob Fund.
Hello all my Ewoks.
Buy it.
Do it for the vine.
My favorite Ewok was Bart in Luther King Jr.
Um, I'm doing my part.
Keep up the great content, my Ewoks.
MCC and Overload.
The anime is fantastic.
I bought 10 books of the light novel series.
Um, the only person with it.
Oh, there you go.
Our anime expert on the panel does not know.
I'm sorry.
Whacking.
Buy it.
Yep.
A couple of guaps for my fellow Ewoks.
Five bucks to spread the Efap Empire.
In life, war, and death, peace.
In life, shame, and death, atonement.
For the blob.
This money must go to making Bob depressed.
It would be, you know what?
Just the cherry on the cake would be any acknowledgement from him.
And I imagine it would come in the form of like,
what low lives that they, they bought that and they did that, those creatures.
Um, moviebob.com equals Efap hate mongers of the toxic brood for the moviebob.com.
Also just finished the Mandalorian.
Tikiya.
I think they mean Taika is a good comedy director,
but one in the God Emperor's name was that opening scene.
Oh, the one with the, um, the stormtroopers, scout troopers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Doing the thing where they can't aim.
It's like, I don't know, man.
Like, uh, I think Shad wanted to talk to us about that whole thing sort of in general,
but like, just the idea that you have stormtroopers that are like,
confused at how terrible their own aim is.
I'm like, what is the gag here?
Like you guys realize these are supposed to actually,
like that's a meme that they're bad at aiming.
You've made it like canon.
That's strange.
Okay.
That's all like to the point where they're questioning their own weapons.
They're like, are the weapons fucked or something?
And I know that a lot of people really like it.
I just, I don't know.
I feel like that, um, it's like a fourth wall sort of thing.
Yeah.
I feel like there's no reason to be afraid of them.
They're just completely incompetent.
Like, how are they able to accomplish?
How are they able to do anything?
The Galactic Empire, my ass.
How?
There's so many of them.
That's why we have a thousand of them.
Shoot.
Surely one of them will hit something to volley fire like the old days.
Just massive lines.
Um, I actually had fun watching Rise of Skywalker.
I hated all the floors, but in the moment I had fun.
Do I have brain damage?
No.
I mean, there were some, there are some fun aspects to it.
Sure.
I could see why people, I still think it's more palatable to an average general
audience member than TLJ is.
That's Jedi.
Absolutely.
I think it is without a doubt.
What do you think about that?
Yeah, that's true.
I think it is designed to be that way.
Yeah.
Because TLJ is so much more, and this is the thing.
I'm not actually, this isn't actually me being critical TLJ right now,
but there's a lot more, uh, slow, almost dour parts to the film.
While JJ Abrams is like, whoa, whoa, wacky boom.
JJ wacky boom.
Have you guys seen the lighthouse?
And if not, are you planning to?
I want to see it.
I've heard very good things.
Yeah, we can see it sometime.
You have my donation and my diabetes.
Oh, buy it.
Here's for the movie.
Bob.com fund also rags.
Have you played near automata?
No, I haven't played near automata yet.
That's good.
I've heard it's all right.
Uh, hi Mola.
Hello.
May the dawn be with you all.
Very kind, very kind.
May the dawn be with you.
Might as well give my share to the fund after watch this terrible movie tonight,
but on the flip side, I'm definitely tipsy.
Oh, that'll help.
Oh yes, that will help.
Better make this happen.
Might Ewoks to movie Bob.com.
Yeah.
Since you only fuck white women, when do you do?
When do you do a money shot on a white woman's face?
Does the nut camouflage with her skin?
What a question.
Oh, I mean, she would have to be really Arian.
Let's just say I think white women aren't actually like white.
Well, you can find some that are super pale.
You can find vampires, I'm sure, and just come all over vampires.
Yeah.
Do you like vampires?
You partial to vampires?
Oh, we're quick.
More Diabeto's fund.
Hello, all my e-words.
Here's $10 for another great stream with a $5 deduction
for breaking my two-year streak of not thinking about Brett Keane.
Oh, well, it happens.
Despite making up only 13% of Endor's population.
Oh, there's two of those.
Oh, my goodness.
The word immediately after is 13% of Ewoks kill 52% of Stormtroopers on Endor.
Very impressive.
Why are you streaming on Moolah, you massive?
Where else would I stream?
I guess I could stream on Moolah.
That's probably going to be the backup plan if ever I lose streaming privileges on my main channel.
Chud Skywalker looks like Clarence.
Oh, the little drawing we had, I guess.
Of Chud Skywalker, if you remember.
Who's Clarence, though?
Yeah, is he the guy from Grand Theft Auto?
Oh, possibly.
Our five use my Super Chat moneys to buy that website.
Hey, Moolarino and Raggadiddle.
Hello.
Hello.
Uh, in the Darth Plagueis book, Palpatine's master manipulates the force in test subjects
to create life, evil intentions, and as a result, the force creates Anakin.
Good.
I read the book years ago, not 100% good memory.
So Darth Plagueis was doing eviltisms, and the force responded by doing goodtisms creating Anakin.
I guess.
Certainly unusual.
The films really don't address much of that.
Staying away from it, yeah.
Or at least, yeah, because, like, it's just, I had, there was no father.
Movie guard, la, la, la.
We're going on.
Give the chat googly eyes.
Oh, yeah, well, you know, in the memes, they could add that if they want.
Ray should be Palp's great, great, grand, great, great.
Sorry, great granddaughter, not granddaughter.
Consider Kylo is G-son, grandson of Vader,
while Palpatine was a generation above Vader during the prequels.
There's ways to make it work, probably.
Maybe.
Yeah, they've got pills for that.
To ER.
Have you seen Carbonari of the Iron Fortress?
I have.
It's like Attack on Titan, but not quite as cool, but also on a train, which is pretty cool.
Uh, it's, it's a fun enough time, killer soundtrack.
The person said it's, it's essentially Attack on Titans with zombies and trains.
Yep, pretty much.
Hey, nifty.
Why was Leia looking for Luke if she was already a Jedi?
Anyone think of that?
I mean, it's always helpful to have another one, I guess.
I'm not against the idea that she was looking for Luke.
I imagine that I'd be pretty pissed if I was here is my issue with it.
Like, what the hell did you go?
Luke, we need you.
What the fuck?
Yeah, shit's going on.
And you're kind of responsible.
Yeah.
And you find out that he's like, well, I left because, you know, the Jedi kind of suck.
And you're like, oh, do they?
And the Sith, they're pretty much the same or better.
Yeah.
Is that what you're saying?
He's like, no.
And then you're like, oh, maybe give us a hand then, you asshole.
So get in the fucking speeder and come on.
Moviebob.com.
Very appreciative of your videos.
Do you think that authorial intent goes into what a movie is viewed as objectively?
Also, by Moviebob's website.
So I'm pretty much on board with Death of the Author entirely.
Like, if just because the creator says this is what this is when it's clearly not that thing,
like through a mistake or the fact that they really wanted to portray X, but they ended up with Y.
It's them saying it's that is about as relevant as anyone else saying it's that.
If you paint a picture of a duck and you tell me it's the Titanic, I'm not.
No, it's a duck mate.
Sorry.
It is more interesting.
I love to hear about it, though.
Say, for example, like, why did Rian Johnson destroy Kylo's mask?
And you can find out, like, through commentary or whatever that you wanted to get rid of it
because it sort of like gets in the way.
And he's going to use it as an example of how
Kylo's growing as a character or whatever.
And you're like, oh, because I don't I don't know that, like, like Quinton said,
that he sees that he's like a fanboy evader and that that's like dumb and you should stop doing
that. But what we got in the film was Snoke was like humiliating him for wearing a silly mask.
And like, I don't like that doesn't follow me at all.
I'm just confused.
Like, if it was so you got all these different sources of what could be the actual issue,
someone's interpretation, the director explaining it to you as to what his intention was,
and then following the actual dialogue in the scene and trying to conclude something from it.
Like, it's really interesting to take it in.
And it can maybe direct you to certain elements that you may have missed,
like someone saying, this is how it is.
And then you go, oh, shit, yeah, that line that kind of recontextualize or whatever.
But I'm sorry, sometimes authors are like, oh, shit, no,
I meant for it to be this way, not that way.
And then you're like, yeah, well, this way is like barely seeable from anybody's perspective.
So without like definitive references, it's complicated.
And I would probably want to go example by example.
But, you know, like Joker is another one where people like how much of it happened,
how much of it didn't.
And as far as I'm aware, the director's position and the writer's
position is that all of it happened except for the girlfriend.
And I think that I could be wrong on that.
I guess a better example would be the taxi driver's ending is supposed to be literal
from the perspective of the filmmakers.
But the way that they do it really implies that it feels like a dream sequence.
There's lots of implications for why it's a dream sequence.
And so like, even I would just be like, yeah, I know that's what you guys are saying it is,
but you really didn't necessarily do a great job of putting that forward.
And people saying it's a dream sequence have more than valid references for that.
Oh, really interesting thing to talk about, though.
I would rather just go case by case for each one.
How relevant the comments are from the person who made it are usually just going to be tied
to how relevant the references in the actual content are.
I've heard the defense that Snoke's insults and insulting his mask was him training Kylo.
I just I don't get what the point of the mask was in the first place.
Then was he just putting it on for the funsies and Snoke never liked it?
I don't get Snoke and Kylo's relationship.
Yeah. And I don't think Snoke has any room to call someone else that they look stupid.
He was fucking gold bathrobe.
He looks ridiculous.
Plus his face is fucked up.
He should wear a fucking mask.
Boom. Yeah.
Anyway, if a guy invites you over to his place and you see a Donald Glover Lando pop figure next
to a Pickle Rick pop figure, should you be concerned?
Uh, yeah, but don't abort yet.
Keep it in mind.
But don't abort yet.
Yeah, let's call it a it's a flag.
Not as it's not a red flag.
It's a it's just a little little bit yellow flag.
No red flags yet.
It could be cool.
Just misguided.
This one says E.R. speak up.
Yeah, but Funko pop.
All right, that's a no from me.
That's a no straight up though.
Yeah, I'll tell more to watch Jojo.
Watch Jojo after I've done it.
Iggy made me sad to chase.
I the I the fact that I've owned dogs if his breed only made it worse.
Because Iggy was the dog and Jojo, right?
Oh, okay.
That makes more sense.
Leave I remember that from a conversation we had today.
Watch Jojo.
That makes sense.
Then yeah, we have increased hit Hitler meme production
so that he gets happy and talks more.
That makes sense.
For the movie blob and Efap dot me fund also high regs.
Hello movie Bob site, please.
This one says E.R. money.
Would you like $2 a year?
I mean, I want to go miss.
I can list it.
I've got I've got all of the ones, the specific that people listed.
I can just fucking.
Rags is the apex heterosexual and looks like a lesbian.
Yeah, well, it is a complicated timeline.
At the closely cropped hair, the purple.
Yeah, I guess so.
How do you feel?
Can't argue with that.
Just can't argue with it.
Don't kick J. Longbone.
She's the good J.
Yeah, I'd agree with that.
Yeah.
I watched the new Star Wars Wednesday night and I'm the only one that thought
there was something really off about the way it was edited.
There wasn't anything specifically I was thinking about editing wise,
just mainly the pacing.
Like busy, busy, busy, go, go, go.
There was a couple of long shots that were nice enough.
Like the camera moved a whole bunch, but I could mostly follow it.
It was more just there was no time to calm down.
That's what it felt like.
But if I watched it again, I might be able to spot some stuff at the editing.
Maybe I don't know.
It's been several days and multiple viewings and TROS is still in the top three for me.
I don't know why.
Top three of.
I was the whole worst movies.
Oh, man.
I need to see a doctor.
It's well established in non-canon and canon that ships can't go to light speed
inside a planet's gravity well, yet Poe does it like three times.
Well, the Millennium Falcon special and reasons and they don't care.
Inside a gravity well, as in within its atmosphere or within the field of its gravity.
Close enough, I guess.
Surely they did that in the OT.
But Ray bypassed the compressor.
Yeah, there you go.
The secret.
Someone else had thought about that.
What would Han Solo know about being able to do that?
Nothing, nothing stupid old man.
Yeah, where's that Gary Stu video you teased at?
Every video I've teased is never coming to fruition.
I do that a whole bunch,
but I do actually genuinely intend to make these things.
They just take ages.
You must know this field.
I'm sure of it.
I'm so sick of hearing otherwise respectable YouTubers gush over the Mandalorian.
Mullernrags seem to be the only ones who can see it for the shit that it is.
And maybe Robot Head.
It desperately needs a video takedown.
I mean, I don't plan to make a video,
but I'm happy to talk about it on a podcast at some point.
Yeah, well, definitely.
Yeah, no, I've been hearing loads of really good things about it from lots of different people.
Angry Joe made some videos about it, and I'm sure they're great.
Question for the long man himself and any other Efap guest.
Has your opinion on something ever been changed on an Efap debate or video?
I think I can't remember, not because it necessarily hasn't happened.
It's just because I don't remember.
I might not remember it.
I guess my perspective was changed on arrival.
I felt like I had to reframe everything I was thinking about that film after the whole like
how time works in it.
It like threw me for a complete loop in that debate.
The Spider-Man ones, I wasn't fazed because I just heard the arguments over and over again
about the comics, and I just don't.
I like to separate out adaptation quality.
Then there's the Game of Thrones one.
That was insane, to say the least.
The Major Lee.
You didn't have your mind changed?
No.
And then there's the Major Lee one, which was, I just look back at Smirk.
The not so great debate.
That was just funny.
What else is there?
What other debates have been had?
Let's see.
Oh, the Remarkable Republican and Shad debate.
Oh, that was, I can't even remember a lot of it because I was very drunk.
You were clearly very drunk.
It was wonderful.
Oh, it was so amusing to listen to, though, I remember.
As for like videos we've covered.
I don't know.
If I was to be really generous, I feel like it's like 8% of the videos we've covered we
consider to be like good.
Right?
Maybe maybe 10.
Well, the ones I've seen on here are Bocora.
Which have been great, right?
Yeah, so I'm a little biased.
I'm sure there has been things, maybe not big things,
but smaller things.
Like little details, little sections, maybe.
It's hard to think back exactly, but we do more so want to cover videos that we can
sort of argue the other side of.
We're not like we've said this before, but the problem is, say, for example,
we had a video that was just really well argued and really well referenced.
We're concerned that we just play it all.
Which we actually did with Eric Monroe's video, I believe.
But that was in the interest of sort of trying to promote the channel and be like,
hey, it's an up and coming YouTuber.
Give it a shot.
We did it with RobotHeads video on PLJ.
They're not exactly examples of our mind being changed with something that we sort of agree
with.
So yeah, I'm just trying to think.
I don't think we've covered some where we go, oh my god, I never thought of this thing
that's totally changed my view on this piece of content.
Yeah, I was wrong the whole time.
Turns out the movie's great.
I don't think it's been anything like that.
It's funny we have ER here because the one of the examples I would have is Get Out.
I thought Get Out was pretty good.
And then I saw his video and I was like, fucking hell.
Get out makes no sense at all.
And that film was getting praised to high heaven.
And it's probably part of why you made that video, I'm assuming.
Yeah, a little bit.
I might be a bit of a contrarian.
But yeah, not so much on eFap from what I remember,
like a significant opinion being changed.
2020 resolution.
Bring back MS Paint Morley.
If I ever make a dissection video, I will consider bringing those back, I swear.
I'm Sky Doorwalker.
I remember that meme to a degree.
Jay Long, put N word as your Twitter personal pronoun.
She should put Ewok in there.
That'd be great.
Ewok.
I'm sorry, but it's a super china.
It says that Ewok, say Ma Re Su.
Ma Re Su.
Look at that.
Treating you like some kind of circus clown.
Disgusting, isn't it?
Mola gets swole when he's spooked.
Oh yeah, remember that like meme?
I just suddenly gaitless muscles when like searching for what's happening.
It's an evolutionary adaptation.
Mola, the picture above you is a family portrait.
Oh yeah, there was, I remember seeing it in the meme, there was like a frame.
It was a nicely drawn meme.
I liked it.
There's just lots of funny little references.
BuyMovabob.com and have it linked to eFap.me.
That is an idea.
Is it literally just, if you pay 500, you can literally buy it.
Is that how that works?
You could buy it for 2,500, but you can put in bids and minimum bids are 500.
I tried to put in five, but it wouldn't.
And so, you know, that's a...
Even if we did, let's just say we had 500 to use on it,
that's still not like a guarantee or anything, right?
It's a bit of a...
No, not a guarantee.
I mean, you wouldn't lose it by making the bid.
It would just, you know, you'd have to pay that much for the thing.
Right.
ER, take it by your profile pic that you're a fan of Log Horizon.
Would you consider doing a review of it?
And would you recommend it to someone like Molar or Rags?
Uh, I probably won't do a review, but I really do enjoy it.
First season's great.
Sword Art Online gets a lot of flack, but if you want an actually good anime
about people being trapped in an MMO, picking it kind of seriously,
developing sort of an economy and a new way of life inside of a game,
it's pretty cool stuff.
Yeah, it says...
Would you recommend it to us because we love will building,
but don't typically watch anime?
I mean, I talk about will building a lot,
but I would say like my favorite element is usually character before will building.
Uh, characters like big tisms.
I just fucking hate it when people damage will building hardcore.
They don't care about it.
Yeah.
Well, I think Log Horizon has a good mixture of both.
Uh, hope you all get to have a Happy New Year.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hey, hello.
Barboo Frick did 9-11.
All right.
Hey!
That's an easy meme, I think, isn't it?
Uh, Rip E.R.
No, no, he's still here.
Hanging in there.
Thank you, Chase, for the only play.
It was funny.
Yeah, it was funny.
I liked it.
It was funny.
I didn't enjoy that.
The chats must flow.
Hour six.
We're on six and the current livestream is on hour 10,
so I think we're actually getting there pretty close now.
Will we ever see the return of the pikemen?
Yeah, I'm absolutely on board of having Vox's CGN snacks all to guess back.
We'll sort it out eventually.
You know how EFAP is.
It can be difficult with getting people in at the right times for the right things,
but I'm more than on board.
To add to the idea,
Moeller is an eldritch horror.
Think HP Lovecraft.
His criticism is so incomprehensible to normal critics,
their minds shatter.
My god.
That is pretty impressive.
Thanks.
Incredible.
Thanks for keeping me sane throughout a depressing period in life.
Off to boot camp in February.
Gonna try and get y'all some good rat till then.
P.S. Hi Rag.
Oh, yeah.
Hello and good luck.
Have a good time.
The account that wrote that is Eargubft.
If that's how you pronounce that.
Or they have done a couple of pieces of some pretty cool art from what I remember.
Let me check my...
An ort.
If I know which one.
Yeah, he made these two.
Okay.
Check me fine art.
Oh, I know that one.
Yay, those are good.
Yeah, I know they're freaking awesome.
I wish.
Yeah, really.
Those are great.
Let me get them on screen for chat so you know what I'm talking about.
Oop.
Uh.
It's a little bit lower quality because they're the Discord versions.
Yes, the epic of Dawn carrying metal up the mountain.
Even got Aidan there as well.
Yeah, I assume he meant when he said all good rats.
He might be making more of these.
I don't know, but we love him.
It's good shit.
And I hope you have fun in boot camp, I suppose.
Yeah, you're a very, very talented artist.
Hope to see some stuff from you again.
Uh, only plays on Efap.
Maybe this isn't the worst timeline.
Wondering if the Efap movies can be released regardless of the Doom movie tisms.
Also, Hi Rags.
Well, you can actually watch it right now.
It's on the Efap.me website.
If you look, I think, in the Efap episode section, scroll down to the minis.
There's a version that KivaKins managed to sort of download and host separately.
But Doom, as far as I'm aware, I can put that out soon now.
Uh, so you expect it pretty soon.
And then once that one's done, the rest of them can roll in.
And to remind you all, we've got Doom, Lord of the Rings, Lord of the Rings, Lord of the Rings,
Godzilla, Toy Story, Wrinkle in Time, Torchwood.
I think that's it.
Have I missed any?
Do you remember Rings?
I think that's it.
The Three Lord of the Rings, Torchwood, Wrinkle in Time, Doom.
Godzilla.
Godzilla.
Toy Story 4.
Toy Story 4.
I think that's it.
Either way, all of that content is ready to go.
And obviously, before, I think Wolf mentioned it on his last Efap that he's in the Three Lord
of the Rings ones.
So it's just a good old me, Rags and Wolf riffing on Lord of the Rings.
And I am excited to get the Fellowship version out.
That one was.
It's so good.
It is so good, guys.
It's been teased for like a billion years, but it's finally going to be coming out soon, I swear.
Anyway, possible double Super Chat.
I don't know.
But Apocalypse Now was a better love story than Ralo.
Agreed.
Also High Chase.
Twilight, love stories in Ralo.
Jay Longbone, kick guests, Moeller and Rags.
Oh, damn.
Wanna kick us?
Never.
See ya.
We are unkickable.
Cool EU fans.
Be glad Mara Jade was never canon.
They would have had her a black red head with like every other ginger like Ariel.
Well, this is what I mean about like how people are like, hey, they should do X.
They should do Y.
They should do Z.
It's like, I don't know.
No, no way.
You don't want to trust Disney with things you like.
Their track record is awful.
Look what they did to Han.
Why do you want them to touch these things?
Hi all and Rags.
First Super Chat.
I wanted to say thanks for all the content and hope you've enjoyed some of the memes I've made.
You have the good work.
I'm sure we have.
I'm glad you like it.
Memes are good shit.
And yeah, thank you.
60% of the time Palpatine's plans work all of the time.
I mean, they never work.
Just ultimately, they never work.
They work temporarily.
Remember when Kevin Smith said something like the end of TROS will melt your mind?
Watching his one hour renew now.
Can't imagine how he justifies that.
Oh, do we need to see that?
We can't do a one hour video on eFap, can we?
It's not on eFap.
I don't think.
Yeah, I don't think we'll.
Oh, we could probably check it out at some point maybe.
Hey, E.R.
Hope you're well.
I am.
Thank you.
I'm all I wanted to thank you for making my 2019 the first
year of heavy movie consumption.
I've caught so many classics such as The Departed that you pointed out.
And my God, movies are great.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
And yes, movies are great when you watch specific ones.
There's a lot of tisby ones, but there's a reason why I'm very passionately involved in
movie discussion.
Movies are awesome when they're awesome.
Did you massive show E.R.
that we had planned fan art I drew weeks ago?
I'm curious what he thinks of it.
Are you talking about Stratumire?
Yeah, I thought that was is that let me I'm pretty sure I've got it saved here.
Or was there another?
The plant one.
Oh, I think they may have been more than one.
It's going to be so I have like thousands of memes.
And I don't know if I'll be able to find that one specifically.
But E.R.
Have you seen any memes of you like a plant getting fed water?
When you're dying, the self-evolution.
Oh, I know what they're talking about, yeah.
Well, they tweeted.
Oh, yeah, if you've tweeted, there's a good chance you may have seen it.
Yeah, I've got a folder for diabetes on my computer.
Yeah, so many diabetes.
Such great art as well, like people making full on.
Some of them are crazy.
Some people just the news flows through them when it comes to diabetes.
Uh, Mueller, if you haven't done the super chat video with Wolf yet,
please tell him hello all my e words somewhere in that conversation.
Also, hi, Rex.
Hello.
I'm sure we'll have we're gonna have to tell him about the the walk stuff for sure.
If he doesn't know about it.
Is my God, Quinton, what have you done?
Also, man, you guys weren't kidding when you said that the only good episodes of
the Mandalorian were the first two.
No, we weren't kidding.
I was going to say, like, we don't joke around.
That's not what we do.
We really wanted to love Mandalorian like, like, yeah, this could be really great.
And they were like, oh, I remember when Fringy, you and myself, when we watched it,
we were like, man, not going to call it too early, but this is really good.
And I'm, I'm ready for it.
And now, well,
thoughts on Mandalorian seven and eight redeemed on the show.
Redeemed or no?
Terrible.
No.
Terrible.
They did the opposite.
Kind of stupid.
I don't want to get into it right now, but yeah, it's fucking stupid.
Last efap of the decade or surprise New Year's Eve stream also high chase.
So I like the idea of doing a new year's stream.
The only thing is that that's going to be like a day from now.
And like, I really want to kick on with my video.
And I don't know if I can do another 12 hours of a week out of not editing,
but maybe we could do something short of some kind.
Maybe we could even play something.
I kind of like doing something for New Year's.
So I'm not sure yet.
Yeah, definitely not a bad idea.
I shall discuss ideas with raggers, the potential guest is
efap anime.
Mola, you've seen Ghost in the Shell.
I have not.
I love Ghost in the Shell so much.
Rags has, and I think ER and Chase Face have.
Avatar, Airbender would be good as well.
So I have avatars on my list.
Ghost in the Shell wasn't, but I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be, you know, maybe.
ER, which is worse?
Ray, Korra, or Core Ray?
Mm.
Surely, Core Ray would be the worst.
It's like a combo of both of them.
It's like, oh, god.
Yeah, but that's.
I don't know.
Core Ray could be funny.
Like a hideous creature that's morphed for both of them.
Yeah, like a horrible Steven Universe fusion.
Mm.
But yeah, I mean, obviously, the answer is Korra.
Yeah, unpopular opinion.
Jojo memes make me wish I didn't exist.
My best friend is infuriated that I refuse to watch it.
You can tell me to kiss myself all day.
Like, is that the memes coming from the fan base?
Meaning that you got put off from watching it in general, I guess, maybe?
Not the first I've heard of it.
A lot of people get put off of watching or even trying Rick and Morty because of the fan base.
Unfortunately.
More or less, sub 2 average pixel after you treat out his reload animations video.
The best video editing I have seen on YouTube.
Cheers for that.
Very underrated YouTuber, but I mean,
dare I say, not anymore.
He fucking exploded with that reload video.
It was kind of crazy because he was getting like,
hideously low views.
And then that video just kicked off and I think he's doing it right now.
Yeah, 1.5 million for that video, which again, I watched that with Fringian Rags, I believe.
Very cool video and lots to think about.
It was it's a perfect storm.
It's a subject that doesn't get talked about a lot.
He did his research.
He's got great editing.
Good voice.
Well scripted.
Deported.
Just good shit.
Um, yeah, that's that's average pixel satisfying reloads for anybody who's curious.
Check it out.
Beastars watch it.
It's a good show.
It's coming to Netflix very soon or you can sail the high seas for it.
Gotcha.
First draft 2000 words in two thirds of the way into the movie.
I felt like I left a lot out, which I need to add first time doing this.
Maybe I'll actually release it.
Go for it, dude.
Yeah, absolutely.
Give it a shot.
Give it a try.
Give it a C.
C.
This movie was member berries and sorry for TLJ changed my mind.
I think it was a lot of things.
Those definitely included.
Definitely got member berries, but we're also dealing with some
TLJ sucks on my right boys in that movie, but it also has like crazy.
Again, I don't get I didn't even realize that you know,
like Major Lee's gonna be really happy about the Ray low moment, right?
Because he that's like what he was gutting for.
Do you remember how we were like, what?
Like, what is the implication?
Where did that come from?
But apparently JJ thought that something was there that we didn't see.
Like, why would Ray and Kylo be the robots came out of nowhere for me?
I don't get it.
I don't know what they see in each other.
I mean, I guess she's the most powerful being in the universe or whatever, but.
And so I'm left as for what she sees in him.
Like, yeah, I don't know.
And so I assume he's trying to panda to the people who wanted that, I guess.
And then it just like he pandas to so many different demographics in that film.
Like the white supremacists.
Yeah, he panda to the Nazis.
Can you believe it?
Just for that sweet, sweet money.
Sweet Nazi money.
Not me, though.
Theory Disney never watched the original trilogy,
but rather they watched the robot chicken stalls parody instead.
And that's how Palpatine survived.
I mean, if it makes sense, you know, that's what I reckon.
It's not the most nonsensical thing in that movie.
We are review title brainstorming episode nine or Rise of Sky people in parentheses.
I'll put them under advisory.
I'm still I'm still thinking of a name, actually.
I don't really settle down on one.
Lots of potential.
So uncut gems in a packed theater crowd is more engaged than TROS or for me this year
and black Jew power.
Nika is one of the year's best lines.
Oh, I don't know if that's from uncut gems, I guess.
Did you like it, Ra?
If Ra liked uncut gems, maybe it's a true Nazi masterpiece.
Oh, no, it's not so bad.
Sorry, rag is, but Mando was always Pupus Dudas.
It wasn't the first episode and the second episode were good.
Assuming you Anamu guys are still there,
what are your thoughts on Goblin Slayer and Tanya the Evil?
Haven't seen him.
I've only heard of him.
Now, that's like the Mandalorian if you want to watch something good.
There you go on that.
Wait.
And Tanya the Evil is.
So Goblin Slayer is good.
Yes.
Okay.
Basically autistic guy in a helmet with a very rational hatred for goblins.
And he just kills him.
What more do you need?
And Tanya the Evil is okay.
It's all right.
Yes, SpongeBob gets really bad.
It became a parody of itself with how hard it's trying to be itself.
I remember getting sad when I was younger.
I could tell when the writers changed.
Rags, if your SO wants to poop with the door open.
Yeah.
What do you do if your SO wants to poop with the door open?
Hey, if he, she wants to poop with the door open, fine.
They can poop with the door open.
But when I'm pooping, that door is closed.
All right.
There you go.
Chase, the anime pacing is really slow, but the manga is fast paced and gets the point.
Again, showing that manga is superior.
Read bazook.
You and just says N.I.
Maybe Nini.
Uni.
I'm sure he's going for Nini.
Nini.
Yes.
Knit picker.
You nit picker.
That's probably what it was.
Knit picker.
Hour seven.
We are around 10 in real time.
Catching up.
Oh my goodness.
YouTube is banned in China.
I'm being a criminal using VPN only for red letter media and EFAP.
I risk being imprisoned for Rich Evans and high rags.
Oh, hello.
Just be careful, man.
Yeah, be careful.
And of course, if you're going to risk anything for anyone, Rich Evans is a good choice.
But Rich Evans.
Yeah.
There's no Hollywood star with whom I'd rather risk it.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Have y'all watched Bache Monogatari yet?
I'm going to get to the point where I can pronounce that cleanly eventually, I'm sure.
But no.
No.
Have you?
Oh, damn.
None of us.
Use this money to put together a crew of professionals to rescue Quentin's lover.
Hashtag save Q doll.
A team of professionals.
I'm literally breaking into his house and taking the doll.
Magnificentisms.
Game of Thrones destroyed.
Endgame forgotten.
Star Wars raped.
Only one film stands atop the rest.
A story about a defeated clown rising up.
Kino.
Yeah, Joker did better than all of them.
I think the ST is just the fantasized retelling of the events of the ST from Rey.
A scavenger who spent her life without purpose and dreaming of being a central part in the
struggle of the galaxy.
You're saying she's an unreliable narrator?
Except she doesn't have a motivation for it.
Don't forget about E-Fab Mini Beetleborgs is a tism.
Big Bad Beetleborgs.
What's that reference in?
Big Bad Beetleborgs.
What are they?
It's like old Power Rangers sort of things, except they're beetles.
Yep.
Kim Possible was way better than Totally Spies.
It was if Buffy fused with James Bond and they made it a cartoon.
Oh, there you go.
Everyone should watch Kim Possible.
Watch Kim Possible.
Ever heard of Spider Raiders?
If not, Google it.
Spider Raiders?
Spider Raiders.
It looks like an anime.
Only one season.
Spider Raiders.
People with Spider Max or something?
I don't know, but all right.
Spider Raiders.
It's a Wonderful Life.
It's such a perfect pure film.
Everybody should watch it with family on Christmas.
If you didn't this year, make sure you do next year.
All right.
Hey, Mauler, when is the next TFA video coming out?
Sorry, just kidding.
Love your stuff.
Take as much time as you need to create the next great spark of longtism bad fires.
Well, thank you.
Stuff is on the way.
And PS rags high.
Hey.
Hello, ER.
Hello.
Could a half black, half white kid be called Grayscale without it backfiring into a cute accusation of scalyhood?
I'm not exactly the one you should go to for that.
What's the question?
It's in the Game of Thrones universe.
Grayscale is about having a disease scale-tism.
So it depends on what universe we're talking about.
You want that on your penis?
Do you want that on your penis?
I don't want that on my penis.
I want the scale-tisms on my penis.
You can argue that it's not a 9-11.
Sorry, 9 out of 10.
Not 9-11.
9 out of 10.
You see 9 out of 10 if you go 9-11.
It was the forward slash.
I read it as a 1.
That was my bad.
You can argue that it's not a 9 out of 10.
It is.
Angry Jew on Man of Steel.
Their DCEU ranking list is Rise of Skywalker level of tism.
How It Should Have Ended said it's not the worst Star Wars movie and the celebration of the old films.
No.
Hey, man.
Let people enjoy it.
86% audience score.
What can we say?
What can you do?
Angry Jew, huh?
That was a slip of the tongue by Rags in the Jepi Nichols episode.
Angry Joe, Angry Jew.
Rags clearly harboring some hatred for Mexican-Jewish people.
I see.
I have no problem with the Mexican-Jewish people.
All right.
Mine Negros.
Yeah.
There you go.
Pronounced it like that.
So I'm fine.
Akira, do it.
Negros.
Akira's a good, right?
Yeah, do it.
Yeah.
I always thought of the Midichlorians as a way to explain natural proficiency.
You might have more or less at birth, but that doesn't mean you can't train to be better.
Yeah, pretty much.
Really, though?
I mean, like a actual power level.
So with what they were saying earlier about how they're like just an indicator of potential.
So like how you have someone who could be like really good at certain sports, I guess,
but they still need to do a whole bunch of other things in order to be
best at said sport than just they can do naturally.
And then it's like, OK, but then is that random between each person,
the potential or is it like if you're a Skywalker, you're more
proficient naturally or you've got a little bit more natural talent?
And I guess that is how it works.
You've got a bit more natural bonuses depending on your family's bloodline and proficiency themselves.
Yeah.
I suppose I would need more fleshing out.
Yeah, it's very, very hard to nail it down with just the mainline movies.
When will you guys be doing a stream with Sargon?
We'll have to reschedule at some point.
We can make it up.
Yeah.
Well, we did like mention this like we knew this was going to happen.
Like Rise of Skywalker was going to infect conversation for a while,
but it'll happen.
We'll get around to it.
I am sure none of you watch college football, but that targeting call against Ohio State
was objectively dick cancer.
Yeah, I got nothing.
Yeah, I don't think I didn't see that game.
I couldn't tell you.
I couldn't tell you, my man.
Does that mean that the best car from Mandalorian
is supposed to be the Star Wars equivalent of Nazi gold?
I guess so.
Maybe sort of.
That stuff was really good.
Like it's protected him significantly throughout the show.
That is.
Yeah, he's that is really good.
Like to the point where I don't see how it should be an insanely valuable resource
that people are just.
Oh, people want to get all over that.
Also to the point where I'm not sure how he survived before he had that.
Because he takes a lot of shots.
Yeah, man, he's it's it's like he shouldn't buy on it.
Shouldn't rely on it.
Yeah, Steven Universe.
Future movie reviews is my wish.
I loved your review of the first series.
My favorite parts are the beginning and middle.
Please brand is Grant.
Yeah, Grant.
That might be a while.
My friend, but maybe.
Also, do you like Junji Ito horror stories?
Yeah, thanks.
I'm familiar with them.
But I haven't really read more than two, I don't think both are very good, though.
I just got back from Rise of Skywalker really like the Palpatine bits.
Other than that, the movie was kind of bad.
I liked it more than The Last Jedi, though, who was more entertaining.
I agree there was more entertaining.
Sure, I found it more entertaining.
Which is the true OG Jedi?
Don Jeb Walker or Babu Frick?
Question to the question one more time.
The true OG Jedi, Don Jeb Walker or Babu Frick?
Oh, I think.
Put my vote in for Frick.
Could you imagine little Babu Frick with a lightsaber kit?
I mean, is there a reason why one of his people couldn't be a Jedi and use a lightsaber?
And have the Force power?
Nothing stopping him.
Get that Disney Plus series going.
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, I think the Don sort of he's a collective umbrella of more things than just the Jedi.
Like it's probably Babu Frick and then the Don sort of oversees all things as naturally.
Guys, we saw the end of the Skywalker saga,
Infinity saga and Game of Thrones all this year.
What the hell do we talk about next year?
Oh, there's always going to be more.
Something good.
Oh, no, I didn't.
Um, we can talk about, uh, I don't know.
There's always going to be more things.
Always going to be always going to be more stuff.
But it is kind of interesting to think like Marvel's big partial finale,
the Star Wars quote unquote finale, Game of Thrones finale, like,
hmm, only one year.
Um, hello, all you masses.
Have any of you seen 28 days later and 28 weeks later opinions on either?
I have.
I've seen them both.
I really like 28 days.
I don't really care for 28 weeks, but I will say 28 weeks is opening scene was really good.
Yeah, to be more definitive.
I would have to watch them again, but I just remember liking them both.
Yeah, same, uh, if he all shows a Bobby to rags, I'll give you both a kiss.
A Bobby shows a Bobby to wrap a what a Bobby.
What's that?
I don't know.
Well, not Bobby interested.
And then, well, I don't even know what it is.
And I guess was, do you know what it is?
I don't know.
Um, it's slang for a British police officer.
He all shows you a British police officer.
A Bobby, um, a slang.
Uh, it says.
Uh, police officer.
Yeah, I.
I don't know what a Bobby is.
Oh, well, what if I did show you British police officer?
Well, then what, then would I have to kiss you?
Is that what the deal is?
I think he said he would kiss.
He'll give you both a kiss.
Oh, that'd be nice.
Um, Winston and Bob look like old lighthouse keepers.
I get it.
I get it.
That kind of works.
I can see that actually.
I would even watch that film just to honor them as, as creatives.
Who's more useless Knights of Wren or the Golden Company?
It's always going to be the Golden Company.
Even the Knights of Wren did more than the Golden Company did.
What did the Knights of Wren do?
Found people for Kylo.
All right.
They didn't do much with it,
but that is already more than the Golden Company just stood there and died.
That's all they did.
I mean, kind of what they did too, though.
Yeah, but they did slightly more by finding a person.
I guess.
Yeah, I guess they went by default.
I was going to say, I cannot stress that the Golden Company did fucking nothing.
They, they shouldn't have existed.
There was no point.
Um, after work, fellas, we'll finish watching when I get back.
Also, Hi Rags, make more low.
Watch the Astartes short videos, please.
Thank you.
I believe we have.
Haven't you, uh, Mauler?
I definitely watched some, if not a few now,
because they made E-FAT memes about them as well.
I think there's only four.
I think there's only four.
Quinton is, well, shall we say, an SJW.
I hate to use that word,
but he embodies that and embraces all of its toxicity.
He's not good.
Definitely losing his marbles as time goes on.
But, you know.
This is my first super chat.
Love you guys and the work you do with E-FAT.
Ms. Wolf, given my best, also Hi Rags.
Hello.
And we shall.
And thank you.
Eeyar's sex appeal is overwhelming me.
I have to get out.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I can't follow your heart.
It's hard to resist.
Everything Chase says is wrong and Kojima is still a hack.
Rags is shit too.
Fuck off.
Okay.
Rags and Chase.
And beat the fuck out.
I love my hero, but I agree with Chaser on the fan cringe.
My main reason is because it's a superhero type comic
that does its job of being a comic slash manga.
Oh, my hero academia, I guess, because I love my hero.
I guess.
Also, don't you mean watch through it, Chaser?
Hey, oh, I'm sure Chase would appreciate it.
Hey, thoughts on mine.
Uh, a little heavy, but, you know, you have nothing else to do.
Some summer reading.
There's a there's a video going around now of a of a boy
who asks his grandfather for Minecraft for Christmas.
And when they're all open in presence as a family,
he opens it up and it's mine camp because his grandfather
thought he said mine camp for his birth or for Christmas.
Wow.
That's amazing.
Oh, he's just a little kid.
That's hilarious.
I want to see the heavy reading for the boy, but all right.
What if the parents were like, why did you ask for this?
He's like, Oh, it's not the video.
I asked for Minecraft.
He probably didn't even know what mine camp is.
Yeah.
Uh, do you think desk bullshit gets ashy?
I don't know how to respond to that.
Gets ashy.
I don't know.
I'm pretty sure ashy skins caused by lack of moisture.
So you got lotion for that.
Hello, molar wags and esteem guests.
Hello.
Hello.
Master Rags.
A few efaps ago, you said every grown man should own a sword.
I feel the same way about firearms.
So naturally, I now own a Cutlass from Cold Steel.
Now, as a result, 10 out of 10 would impulse buy again.
Um, let me see.
Cutlass, the 1917?
All I know is Cutlass Cold Steel.
That's all I got.
Cold Steel, they make a 1917 Cutlass and it looks pretty sweet.
Um, yeah, I got a, my sword arrived last week and I'm very, very pleased with it so far.
I really think it's awesome.
In fact, I actually ordered a rifle, uh, yesterday in it and it's on its way.
So I'm, I'm arming up.
I, I, I got it in my feeling that there might be a boogaloo soon.
So I gotta, you know, I gotta get ready.
Only weekend warriors in the chat.
I guess he woke up.
How is he?
Did he wake up?
Yeah, we're still going.
Good.
That's what we do.
A guy by the name of Mad Black Atheists said only losers stream for four hours.
Losers, he says, yet you're more popular than him.
So who's the loser here?
Yeah, we don't stream for four hours.
We stream for 12 hours.
So we're clearly winners.
Yeah, he wouldn't think we're losers.
He said, if you stream for four hours, you lose.
Obviously he's trying to say you should be streaming for more than four hours.
Yeah, and of course we, yeah.
So yeah, we agree with him.
Good stuff, guy.
Um, what about Game of Thrones?
All four seasons were amazing.
Oh, I get it.
I get it.
Hi, Rags.
What do you massive think of EDF, XCOM, and the New Gears games?
Um, so I played the most recent EDF that came out and it was really goofy,
but kind of charming in the same way.
I don't even know what to compare EDF to.
It's just a super campy sort of shooter game.
Definitely worth a look, but man, it is out there.
That's Earth Defense Force, right?
Yes, Earth Defense Force.
I didn't play the second one he mentioned, um, what was it?
Oh, no, wait, XCOM.
I haven't played XCOM, but I did play Gears 5 and it was pretty good.
I really liked the campaign.
It was fun.
I played it once through solo and then once at a harder difficulty with a friend.
And we had a good time playing it.
It's expensive though, but if you get the Xbox game pass,
which is like really a really great deal, then you could get it for like a dollar,
five bucks, and you could play it through.
I didn't care for the multiplayer really at all,
but I thought the campaign was long enough to go through and it was enjoyable.
And I think it's worthy of a look.
It's gorgeous too.
Really gorgeous.
The cut scenes look great.
Some of the best cut scenes I've ever seen.
Also, Rags, what do you think of Monster Hunter World and or Monster Hunter?
I can't remember what that stands for.
I have not played Monster Hunter.
I have.
I really like Monster Hunter World.
I think it was a really awesome game and that it's a bit heavy for a PC to run.
But if you can run it, it's pretty much everything that I wanted from a PC version of Monster Hunter
because I played it on PSP for like ages.
This is Monster Hunter World.
Yes, because I know I got people who play that sort of thing.
So Chase face.
Come on Efap more and be the weeb to help out.
Even this sausage fest.
Here's your sugar money.
Have any of you guys watched Black Sheep 2006?
If not, I couldn't recommend it more.
It's basically the room without all the boring parts.
Oh, it's like a it's like a funny movie.
Um, but yeah, no, I'm not ahead of it.
Do Chris Stuckman's Rise of Skywalker review?
I mean, we could give it a tester.
I doubt he's a tester and it would be done.
Yeah, that's the other problem with him is videos are super short and he barely says anything.
We could do it.
We could line up a couple short ones.
Maybe maybe every once in a while we do some short save some short videos for like a marathon
where we try to pound through them pretty quick.
I could agree with the idea that Ryan wasn't as bad
since he was trying something different if he hadn't done it in the second movie of a trilogy.
This is an interesting like difference.
You know, it's like how much how much do we judge them for not only their intentions,
but also the execution.
You know, it's complicated.
You really fucked up, but so did JJ.
This is why I don't want to take that away.
I disagree with D.S. as just bad, but I love Chase's opinion.
I think D.S., which anime is that?
Death Stranding.
Oh, that's an anime as far as I could say.
That's fine.
Kind of.
They are kind of anime ish in ways.
This super chat says, does E.R. talk?
Occasionally.
He said occasionally.
What do you guys think of the Clone Wars cartoon made by Samurai Jack Creator?
Which one?
Is that the 2D?
Yeah, the little short ones.
I haven't seen them.
It's been so long since I have seen them.
I couldn't I remember liking them as a kid.
Yeah, same.
Maybe those are they're probably on YouTube or something somewhere.
Maybe we should maybe we should go through watching because they're kind of kind of short.
They're like a bunch of little B chapters.
Yeah, maybe you cannot abort that which has been born.
You could still you can still kill murder them.
Yeah, you can you could abort them.
Oh, I just I'm referring to just the sequel trilogy abort them.
Even though they're all dubbed out, just kill them in this way.
It's fine.
Luke Skywalker abortion.
Yes.
What was your takes on RLM's review?
I enjoyed it and still agree with their sentiments on as bad as the sequel trilogy is.
PT is still worse.
Rich Evans says so disagree disagree with that.
I think that the prequels are way better than the sequel trilogy.
I think they're on and a few other things.
A lot of details.
If I was in the room, I would have mostly agreed with their stuff,
but I would have definitely disagreed with some of the things that they said.
I was I was just playing Minecraft as one does.
Listening to the review.
And I was like, I don't know if I'd say that.
I don't think I'd go.
I don't agree.
I mean, their overall sentiment.
Sure.
But a lot of the details and things they said, I just didn't.
I got a really strong impression that they were like about the whole thing.
Like, they just didn't really even want to necessarily talk about it that much.
Kinda.
Even though it's a little bit longer.
Yeah, I think.
But yeah, like, and just seem kind of like not in a bad way in terms of like entertainment,
because I still enjoyed the video, but like a little bit all over the place in terms of like,
what do we even talk about?
I was like, how dumb this plot point is.
How this behind the scenes thing probably happened.
How JJ's friends with these people and these people did these things.
How this trilogy is acting.
You know what I mean?
Like, it felt like we were jumping between all kinds of different subjects,
which is fine.
I was interested to listen to them.
It's just that I don't know that they.
You're watching that movie.
Yeah.
Out of their minds.
Yes.
And I just I don't know.
I think it's really hard, especially Revenge of the Sith.
Revenge of the Sith is better than the sequels by far.
I think it's okay.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
Also, Rich Evan's laugh can cure cancer, probably.
Oh, I think that's probably just true now.
Yeah.
Make Baby Yoda wreck on the Disney sequels.
Does Baby Yoda have that kind of power?
I don't know.
I wanted to thank you guys.
Listening to your work has increased my writing a hundred fold.
You're doing God's work.
Good stuff.
Thank you.
Half of this is for efap.me, half for moviebob.com.
You massive.
Love y'all.
Thank you very much for the efap.me cause balanced as it should be.
Very well.
ER, what are your thoughts on Daisy Ridley taking two hours to close
him out within the Rise of Skywalker?
Or are we going to have to wait for your official review?
I will say that I found it a twist on convention.
Rotten Tomatoes changed from verified to all audience.
I'm assuming, let me just check this out of curiosity.
You have to like, that's what they did, right?
Like they said it used to just be everybody.
But now it's like you have to be a verified audience member as well.
Anyone know what's required for that?
Is it just like an email confirmation or something?
I think you have to, you have to make an account, I guess.
And I don't know what else goes into it.
Verified ratings.
How do you get rid of that?
I don't care if they're verified or not.
All audience.
There we go.
How does that look?
Well, yeah, I mean, it's the curated or verified ones are still 86.
I still find that a music.
It's like, sure, it's 86 fine.
Good night.
All my Ewoks see this chat in the morning.
Good night.
MovieBob.com is listed at 2500 USD.
Get your super chats in your masses.
We need this.
Also, iMauler and ER.
I guess you might say hi.
So hi.
And it just says rags you're okay.
Yeah, you bet, man.
That's probably the nicest thing that anyone's ever said to me, really.
You are okay.
Do you guys think that shows in which people travel in some form of a vehicle,
ship, car, plane, spaceship, with the vehicle being plot armor incarnate,
are we able to tell good stories?
Say that one more time.
Do you guys think that shows in which people travel in some form of vehicle,
be it a ship, a car, a plane, or a spaceship,
with the vehicle being plot armor incarnate,
are we able to tell good stories?
What do you mean the vehicle being plot armor incarnate?
Yeah, that's a strange question.
Because, I mean, if we just take Mandalorian, for example,
this is an episode that begins with his ship getting blown apart.
And he has to land our plane ship.
Yeah, like all of them.
I wouldn't go as far as saying plot armor incarnate.
I'm curious what you mean.
I mean, they can.
I mean, but you also have things like Mad Max and stuff
where cars get blown up and things of that nature.
I mean, as cars, cars getting beat up all the time
is a great way to show progression of damage.
What was off your head?
What's the property you can think of with, like,
the main vehicle that makes them immune?
The only thing I can think of is maybe the TARDIS,
but even that gets fucked up.
Or the Falcon.
That gets damaged all the time, right?
Yeah, it's like they it takes an insane amount of damage,
then gets repaired in the sequel.
Like in the Rise of Skywalker.
That thing's like on fire.
It's getting beat to shit.
It's just ready to look at how it was.
And look at how it was in the solo movie.
That thing got fucked up and Lando just flies it away.
True.
But see, I wouldn't even blame the vehicle at that point.
I would just call it.
It's just plot armor in general.
Like it's just poor writing.
Yeah, that's the show runners.
There are the makers of the show being like, oh, yeah.
Right.
It can be.
But I again, the alternative is a vehicle can get damaged
and the windows can get busted.
Wheels can get blown off.
They can get dense bruises, bullet holes, things like that.
And that's not actual damage to like a character,
but it shows that they're taking fire.
They're being attacked there.
There's the risk of damage that's there.
And that's a way to show progression over,
you know, a period of time,
like they start a journey with the vehicle or a car.
And by the end of the journey, it's like a top gear episode.
The cars beat to shit and it's busted and dirty.
Correction on an earlier chat.
I can't spell.
Sorry.
I said Iggy's death made me sad, too.
It's made worse because I own dogs that were the same breed as him.
Sorry.
I was typing fast from.
And yeah, that I think that was on the conversation about like,
what and get to you on an emotional level,
whether or not it's like well written and stuff.
Pets pets totally do it for loads of people.
Hey, you have crew.
I'm writing a story out for a fighting game.
I will eventually start on.
I wanted to ask if I could use the crew as characters.
Go for it.
Yeah, absolutely.
That could be interesting.
When will you guys do a video praising the consistency
of the latest Mission Impossible movie?
Fallout?
Didn't we do that?
Yeah, we had a whole we had a whole episode about Fallout
and there was a debate for Fallout afterwards.
We love that movie.
That movie was like is like shockingly good.
Yeah, those are back to back if apps, I believe.
Yeah, man, we had that was Southpaw debating
Ren's reviews with us sort of hanging out and jumping in and.
Yeah, we had a lot of good things to say about Fallout.
That was the episode where we literally showed him something happening.
And he said this doesn't happen.
Showed him the scene of it happening and accept it.
Honestly, they'll probably just be my go to whenever someone wants
someone to explain what moving the goalpost is like is that.
That's it right there.
That's it.
The literal dark.
It's okay to be like, oh, I just missed that scene for whatever reason.
I just missed it.
I guess I just left the room or had to pee or or blinked.
Like if I said that car came out of nowhere and then you go,
what do you mean?
It was it was it came on that street and then I go.
Oh, sorry.
What I mean is that it came in really fast.
Not that I didn't see it.
It was just really fucking fast, like a clarification.
But it wasn't that.
I was like sticking to a point until definitively proven wrong.
That new point comes out of nowhere and you're like, wait,
I thought it was okay.
Let's deal with this one then.
But yes, interesting.
Nonetheless.
You the literal dark comedian, Mr.
Matica, Mr.
Matica, yeah, I get it.
Weeb as well.
Um, super.
Ultra.
Hey, yeah.
Any cons you're hitting up this year?
No, you typically go to any cons.
I just watch the stuff hanging around weaves.
You study them.
I guess a little bit.
I got up close to that Chase guy.
True.
Did you get notes?
Yeah, a few.
Um, I would never treat ER as a clown.
Big fan of him would never disrespect.
Also, what manger and anime do you recommend, my good man?
You're the best guest.
What?
That's well, anime.
Stein's gate to that one.
And for manga, try Lucifer and the biscuit hammer.
There you go.
Racks for a million.
Who would you suck off Quinton or diabetes?
Wait.
So the question assumes that you're okay with it, first of all.
Because you've been paid.
Well, if I can opt out, I would.
But if I was forced at gunpoint to fillet one of these two.
Okay, I mean, right?
You'd be sugar, yeah.
Um, I'm not big into sweets.
That's the thing.
You pull bad.
Like, how do you deal with this?
Man, I don't know if it would be worse if they had a really big cock or a really small one.
I'm going to go with Quinton.
But that's.
Yeah, I feel.
Just because diabetes so terrible.
Like awful.
But I guess that's who I would.
Okay.
Yeah, it's really tough to stress how awful diabetes is.
So I guess I'd go with Quinton.
Yeah.
If I absolutely had to.
Also, see if you guys can bring It's a Gundam as a guest to the show.
I'm not against that idea.
Yeah, maybe you bet.
The ER meme was in the Discord.
I don't have Twitter.
Again, don't know if he has seen it or not, because there's more than one example of
ER being awakened by stuff being poured onto him as a plant.
I've only seen one.
Oh, well, you probably saw the Stratumire one then.
I would imagine.
I don't know for sure though.
Maybe.
Yeah, just if you can send it on Twitter or hopefully if you resend it in,
maybe send it on the subreddit just so that I can try and find them.
It's hard to find specific ones.
But yeah, it would be.
I mean, if you want to see it, make a Twitter an atom with it.
You probably, you'll probably see it then when you.
Yep.
Just watch Polar.
Good thing I've got EFAP to cleanse the palette.
Polar bad?
What's Polar?
Let me take a look.
There's two movies called Polar in 2019.
It's a Mads Mikkelsen movie?
Yeah, I guess it's that one.
A retirement-
The world's top assassin, Duncan Vizsla, aka The Black Kaiser,
is settling into retirement when his former employer marks him as a liability to the firm
against his will.
He finds himself back in the game going head to head with an army of younger,
faster, ruthless killers who will stop at nothing to have him silenced.
Initial release January 25th, 2019.
Parentheses, Nigeria.
All right.
It's got a 20% on the critic score and a 65% on the audience.
And it's a Netflix film, so we could go, we could watch Polar together.
Wonderful.
Just watched, oh wait, yeah.
What does ER think of My Hero Academia?
I'm there for the fights, which are pretty good.
Sam.
Sat him so late, but thank you guys for all the lovely faps.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Have you guys looked at Star Wars lore YouTubers?
Or Star Wars lore YouTuber in general?
Uh, no.
I don't typically, I'm assuming you're referring to like
people who go over like much more extensive and deeper stuff.
I don't typically.
ER excited sand people noises.
Oh my goodness.
Also, Hi Ragglepoo.
Hello.
Hey there.
Hi, this one just says Hey Rags.
Hey.
Loved your Fallout 76 review.
Have you kept up with the recent hacking bullshit
such as stealing players entire inventory?
Anyway, Merry Christmas.
Happy New Year.
I've heard about that.
I have indeed heard of that.
Yeah, there's hacks people have now where they could basically
just take all the stuff from your inventory at a distance.
And this includes like microtransaction stuff that you bought.
If you're fucking retarded enough to buy microtransactions
and pay Bethesda money in Fallout 76,
then people can just take that from you.
So that's cool.
Rags, you ready for Civil War 2 Virginia Boogaloo?
Also, hi.
Hi.
Yeah, I'm ready.
Morley, your videos were the first I watched ensuring
I wasn't insane for not liking TLJ.
Looking forward to your ROS videos.
May the force be with you.
It's on the way.
And I'm already very happy with I've shown the intro.
I made like an edit and I've shown a few friends already
and they laughed at it.
So I was happy that it should work out.
I'm excited to get that video out,
but it's still going to take some time.
With Rise of Skywalker underperforming,
do you think Kennedy will be stripped of power
but allowed to sort of float around until the contract is up?
Honestly, no idea.
I have no idea.
You would think that that's what should be done,
but fuck man, who knows what their plan is.
I know if it was me, she would have been gone a long time.
Is Rose was a part of the Rebel Alliance.
She would have zapped Han and thrown him in a cell on
Hoth where he when he tells them that he has to leave.
She wouldn't have been very useful ever in the OT.
I think she would have gotten a lot of people killed.
He's a bit of a strange one.
Peanut butter mayonnaise and banana sandwich.
Yes or no?
No.
I'm going to vote no myself.
Rags what you reckon?
Say that one more time.
Peanut butter mayonnaise and banana sandwich.
Yes or no?
No.
There you go.
Maybe it takes you over the line.
I want to see an RLM versus eFap debate on which Star Wars trilogy is the worst.
You guys would put up a decent case, but then Rich Evans would laugh and win.
I don't even see how it's a competition.
As long as we can keep them distracted.
Yeah.
I mean, it's basically which one's worse, but I think that we'd be able to...
I mean, the sheer destruction that the sequel trilogy does to the OT,
to the state of the universe is just, it's really...
Like, holy shit did the sequels rip and tear through all of the OTs,
like significant elements.
They're just all damaged at this point.
All three of those sequel trilogy movies did huge blows and just like, damn.
While the prequels, on the other hand, feel happily separated for the most part.
They're connected via Anakin becoming Vader and a few tisms with the Force.
But you compare and you're like, downright reserved.
The prequels are downright reserved.
Uh, once I get around to finding artists and animators,
I will try and get in contact with you all in time.
If possible, that is.
Also, it will be done in a way of Guilty Gear XRD art style.
All right.
Yeah.
Rah, join Mauler's discord.
Also, hi, ER.
Hello.
And that's caught up on the Super Chats for this stream.
Now over to, um, the Streamlabs ones.
And we've only got an hour left.
Basically, we're just going to try and do as much overflow as we can.
All right.
Love your work, Mauler.
Thank you.
Ari, Quentin, butt mad about no Rose Finn romance.
The Chinese do not like seeing interracial relationships
between one of their own and a black person,
regardless of which sex that is.
Having a serious romance would probably get it banned in China.
Would it actually get straight up banned or would it just not be popular?
I mean, if the government decides it's not up to party values, then it will be banned.
They banned much less.
Um, buy that shit.
Mauler, please tell ER that he talks way too much.
Hardly anyone could get a word in while he was going on and on and on
for the first hour of the stream.
I was actually starting to get tired of his voice.
Yeah, man, chill the fuck out.
What are your jabs?
Calm down.
What are your jabs?
Happy Christmas.
You massive F N words.
Mauler, you were visited by the Mari Lloyd this year.
But the creepy horse skeleton thing.
The Welsh folk tale.
Did you win the rap battle to keep your beer?
I need a new video.
Opinion on Kotor.
Oh, wait.
So rap battle to keep my beer.
Anyone recognize that?
The what?
The Mari Lloyd?
No, the rap battle.
Oh, I guess that is with the horse.
Okay.
Yes.
In that case, yes.
I need a new video.
Opinion on Kotor versus Binding of Isaac versus System Shock versus Neo Automata.
You know, that would be quite a long video comparing all four of them.
That's a lot of stuff to cover.
There are some wildly different games right there.
No, I love a challenge.
Love the show.
You guys inspire me to write about media.
And after half a year of procrastination,
I'm going to continue writing about Shadow Chernobyl.
Good stuff.
Still on Efap 51, so I can't wait to hear from you later.
Dude, where's critique?
I think it's all three.
The editing on the first two parts of my favorite work you've done.
Anyways, thanks for staying objective and not letting anyone influence you
to say something irrational.
Keep up the good shit, my friend.
Yeah, the editing on those is what takes them so fucking long to make.
But I'm really happy with them when they're finally done.
I'm like, yes, they're fine forever in terms of I didn't cut any corners on a particular
visual, that sort of thing.
I'm like, finally.
But obviously, they take a while.
Critique part three being August 2020.
That is the due date.
Rags locked me in.
There's nothing I can do.
Sorry, blame him.
That's the way you got sometimes you got to do what you got to do.
Did you know that the Star Destroyers in Palpatine's fleet aren't old imperial SDS?
He hid away despite using sensors from the oldest version.
They're 800 meters longer despite looking identical other than the gun.
I bet JJ went back in and demanded bigger.
They're 800 meters longer.
Why are they 800 meters longer?
Well, someone put up apparently that it's they're stocked by 3000 people each.
That's crazy.
I know.
And they're just sitting on the ship, just being like, all right, where are we going?
Like nowhere, because we don't know which way is up.
Like, oh, oh, all right.
We'll be over here if you need us.
All right.
Yeah, just you can't look if you know, I don't think you could ever get JJ to do a
style film ever again now.
And I think it's because like he'd be like, how do I go bigger than that?
And you're like, maybe that was never supposed to be what you were supposed to do.
How about that?
Maybe you don't have maybe you don't have to be bigger.
Maybe the problem is that there's no intimacy in it.
There's no closeness.
There's no connection.
Your stakes are just in fucking bizarro world.
They're incomprehensibly large.
They're a scale that people just can't connect with.
That's the problem.
And and it's funny because Marvel went with half of the universe has been erased.
And yet they still felt smaller because JJ just went so crazy with what we had.
Because it affected a bunch of people that we cared about.
But like what you have prices on infinite earths and is like literally infinite worlds,
infinite realities will be destroyed.
And you're like, how do you get bigger than that?
You can't.
And it already in it feels so stupid and tacky.
I've spoken.
You have spoken.
Which, you know, I guess you're carrying on his catchphrase because of
what ended up happening to him wasn't so fun, huh?
But you want to offer some respect.
He was like the only legitimate character.
I was like, hey, 50.
I like you.
You're kind of reasonable.
So now, like I said, we got an hour left.
I have thus the stream of ones caught up to the ones that haven't been noted by me.
Kind of hard to translate why this makes sense.
But the rest of the ones we've got to catch up on are all in a big notepad.
And basically, my plan is to just start reading them.
We won't be able to get through them.
But this is me and Rags overflow.
Let's do it.
Yeah.
Leave no super chat on read outside of this one that just came in saying,
yeah, what are your thoughts on Overlord?
I love it and bought the books.
I've seen the first season.
It was all right.
I wasn't really too big into it.
I was burnt out on all the stuff the time I saw it.
So I don't really know.
Maybe it's a lot better than I actually found it at the time.
So these are going to be weird.
He's super jazzed because these are from a few episodes ago,
but they're all saved.
So here goes about to watch episode nine.
No spoilers, please.
No.
I think that was the beginning of our stream for episode nine.
Or first few hours.
A Thousand Generations came in you now.
Yep.
Bit awkward, but hey, whatever you got to do to win.
Brothers, I have returned.
Now, how about that Ray rise of Skyl Waker, huh?
You guys know that there'll be a 10th movie, right?
I don't see why they wouldn't make a chapter 10 eventually.
Yeah, I just.
Can you imagine the trailer?
Like, I'll be like, what in the fucking world do they make this about?
Like, I'm going to be honest.
If I think if you have any sort of any thoughts or misgivings about the fact
that Disney isn't going to sell this off.
I mean, look, Disney bought this for four billion.
They keep in it.
Even if they're not going to do anything with it, they are keeping it.
Especially for as long as they can profit.
Like, if ever, if they had like two films in a row that flopped,
then they might just sit on it.
Yeah, they won't sell it.
They'll just sit on it.
Oh, they don't have it.
Sorry, ever.
Guy 30,000 people apparently in Star Destroyers, not 3000.
Jesus.
How do you feed that many people?
Like, you need food.
You need water.
You need supplies power.
Stop it.
It's just you can't have it this way.
Stop ridiculous.
Um, to the previous Super Chat, thank you for fueling the TROS 4-0.
That probably will happen eventually.
Hashtag Palpatine did kill himself.
Yeah, he did.
Whoops.
All I really have to say about that.
Not so smart, are you, Sith Lord?
Force lightning is like Pringles.
Once you pop, you can't stop.
Yep.
My friend is using bad video essays to prove to me
that Star Wars is still good right now.
I'm just laughing at it.
It's so bad behind Star Wars video.
Um, we had that one from Neryl, right?
Like I said, that one more than any other.
The top two ones that I remember significantly being portrayed to me
is the ones that will either change your mind
or be one of the best arguments you've seen
with a Major Lee video and the Neryl one.
Both of them were shit.
They were terrible.
And don't ask me the question of,
what is the best TLJ video you guys have covered?
It's like, I don't know.
We've covered loads of them.
I can't remember any of the good ones.
Was there a good one?
I mean, we're not talking...
We're not talking good at this point.
We're talking least bad.
Pretty much.
My friend is using bad video...
Oh, wait.
Sorry.
First order Star Destroyers have a secondary bridge hidden
within the hull of the ship in case their first one blows up.
Of course they do.
No, like, I mean, like, of course they would
because the primary bridge is like exposed up there.
Like, of course there would be a backup bridge.
Um, I guess, yeah, because the Raddus does too, right?
Because there's two bridges in TLJ, one that gets blown up
and then the other one that they still use.
Yeah.
It makes sense to me.
Absolutely, there would be.
Absolutely, there would be a backup bridge.
You'd be a fool to not have one.
I want to talk to you, ER, something about the Weeb Avengers
with Mumpy, Mr. Metica, and Appa Bend on your side
as you lead the way.
The Weeb Avengers?
What are we avenging?
Um, I guess, shitty, bad movies, fucking up IPs?
Could that be it?
Good enough for the Death Note adaptation.
What's the Weeb part?
What do you mean?
Are they all Weeb's?
They're just people who like Weebie content, I guess.
I don't know.
All right, I guess.
Uh, ER, have you seen Cultural Variety Hour's Watchmen video?
I saw, like, the first two minutes of it.
That was enough.
That's all I needed to see.
Uh, will you make more videos on the show?
No, I cannot sit through that.
I just can't.
I'm sorry.
Oh, uh, they didn't have two purple crystals for Mace Windu.
Yeah, if they had, he would have survived.
Boy, he would have blown up Palpatine, anyway.
If only Mace Windu was as strong as Rey.
Yeah, it was his big failure was not being
as good as him.
He probably trained like an idiot.
The Dead Speak.
When the beginning of your crawl sounds like the title of a movie
being ripped from an episode of Mystery Science Theater,
you may have issues.
It's really weird.
It's cool.
Most people off guard the whole The Dead Speak thing.
Everyone's just like, what?
Why?
I don't necessarily have a problem with it,
except for the fact that it's strange.
I think that's all the argument would be.
It's just, it feels off.
It is strange.
The way we talk isn't quite, like, I could see that being,
like, an alternative form of colloquial English that we speak.
That could be a dramatic, you know, really quick,
sort of catch your attention kind of thing,
but we just don't talk like that.
It's weird that they would have that.
If JJ's dilemma was that he needed a bigger villain
to facilitate Kylo's redemption,
then why didn't he just bring back Snoke instead of Palpatine?
Yeah, that's another thing.
Kylo, I've heard this talked about,
and I haven't even got this in my video.
I might do it in, like, a bigger breakdown.
But if Kylo is a fanboy of Vader,
for reasons of him being a dark side user
who is full on and all this stuff,
and then he finally meets up with Darth Vader's boss,
shouldn't he be like, holy shit, you know,
we're not worthy.
You're amazing.
You're Palpatine.
I love you.
Instead, he immediately wants to kill him.
Except he's standoffish and an asshole.
Yeah, and you're like, okay.
And then there's the whole, like, yeah,
you could have actually built something up
between Snoke and Kylo.
Instead, you make Snoke and Palpatine,
Palpatine and Kylo, which I don't,
like, I had barely anything to work with with Snoke and Kylo,
but I have even less to work with Palpatine and Kylo.
It just seems like a, you know what I mean?
Like, there's nothing there.
It's just like, yeah, Palpatine's like this powerful dude,
I guess.
And then, yeah, I don't know.
Waste, waste, waste, waste.
He knows what he is.
These people don't know each other.
Throw out the entire trilogy.
Nobody knows each other,
so the stakes are just like meh.
Like, oh, no.
How will this person react to this person?
Yeah, man, it's just like, whatever.
Also, there is a scene from the D23 trailer
of the ships arriving,
which looks an awful lot like a pre-render
of the actual scene that was in the movie.
And it's very possible.
Very possible.
Why didn't Rey bury the dice too?
Awkward moment.
I don't think Rey gave consent to all those Jedi
who came in here.
I guess she did telepathically.
They just didn't show that bit.
And bury the dice.
I guess she didn't even know
about the dice, right?
Like, there would be no reason for it.
Yeah, I don't know why she would.
I don't know why she'd have anything.
We didn't even see the dice.
Well, Luke pulled them off the Falcon.
Then he teleported them as a ghost thing,
but not really to Leia.
So I guess they're still either on arc two
or on the Falcon.
Did Kylo take them?
Well, he picked them up and then they disappeared.
Because it creates another continuity
sort of question where you're like,
apparently transmitting physical objects
at great distances,
using the force as possible now.
So why didn't he just give her the dice,
like physically?
Maybe they're trying to say that
you can't actually teleport anything
and that they always fade eventually.
Oh, sure.
It's just revealed at this point,
you're just like, whatever.
Nobody fucking knows.
Just go back.
I don't remember.
Yeah, or don't forget, guys,
that Rey, using the force,
teleports a lightsaber to Kylo.
Yeah, wasn't that wonderful?
To avenge anime and manga from the West,
all weaves.
Oh, yeah, the answers for you.
It was aggravating how there was
a whole goose chase for the wayfinder.
And it turns out the wheelie droid
had it the whole time,
all the plans and info.
Yeah, the only thing the wheelie droid
does not have
is the ability to circumnavigate
the space cancer.
That's all the droid didn't have.
And apparently you need
the wayfinder specifically
in order to do that.
We've already gone over
how stupid it is.
You can't just go around the space cancer.
But on top of it, it's like,
yes, we will transmit
the wayfinder's tisms, I guess,
to the entire, like,
thousands of ships fleet
that all come in at the same time.
It's like, you guys couldn't possibly
have gotten through the space cancer.
It's just not a thing.
Not a thing.
And I don't know, like,
it just, it's all bullshit.
And they are left at one point
in the movie when Poe and Finn
come back after Ray's ditched them
with nothing.
Like, they've wasted all their time.
And then they just discover
that Dio has all this information
on Exegol.
Like, oh, man, that's good.
Oh, very lucky.
Good thing for that.
Um, I just got back from
watching ROS of my family.
My brother is unironically the person
that doesn't like this movie
because it ruined TLJ.
There's going to be a lot of those people.
We're expecting many essays about that.
Indolences, man.
The new canon comics established
that the Emperor is Darth Vader's father.
So the Skywalkers are Palpatine's.
Um.
Mmm.
This rabbit hole is getting too deep.
Rise of Skywalker is wist,
but I enjoyed Rise of Skywalker
more than TLJ.
Fair enough?
Also, is C-3PO in an abusive relationship
with the others?
Apparently, because they kind of
make him a joke the second they kill him.
Or they quote unquote kill him.
It's weird.
Weird.
The whole thing is weird.
TLJ is the reason this movie is the way it is.
I don't feel it's perfect,
but after thinking of everything,
this movie was the best case scenario.
I don't agree.
It's the best case scenario.
I feel like JJ didn't have to do
a lot of the tismy stuff that he did.
First of all, bring it back, Palpatine.
It's not like Ryan forced anyone to do that.
And you might be like,
well, who is he going to use as an enemy?
It's like, um, I would have made
Snoke's death a fakeout
before bringing in Palpatine.
I would have had Snoke be like,
did you really think you killed me?
Like, you know, and he,
it was a hologram the whole time.
Like, oh my God.
Floating meditation surrounded by rocks,
pulling the X-wing out of the ocean
to go save the day.
Those were scenes I wanted from Luke and TLJ.
Yeah, but Ray's better than him.
Why would, you know, they're here moments.
Alec Guinness said it best.
Who's the more foolish,
the fool or the fool that follows him?
JJ had the TLJ fallout to learn from,
and he didn't.
I don't know what you mean.
Audiences are 86%.
They liked it, clearly.
Yeah, that's great.
Fuck, the force is really balanced now.
I mean, is Palpatine dead?
I'm just an episode 10 trailer
where they have Palpatine cackling.
And you're like, oh my God.
No one's ever really gone.
Nobody's ever really gone.
I put my vote towards TLJ being worse.
C-3PO and Chewie were fun in the film.
And even though the writing is probably worse than TLJ,
it made me smile.
Rise of Skywalker ruined the end of Return of the Jedi.
Agreed.
It did?
Yeah, all three of them do.
Yeah, they all take a stab at ruining it.
How many different ways can we ruin it?
There's a few more ways left to try.
Don't worry, we can do it.
How did Kylo get to Exegol in the end?
Imperial class TIE fighters don't have hyperdrive,
which is why in episode four,
the gang questions how one was in alone.
The TIE fighters just have them in this movie.
If you remember the beginning,
they hyperdrive after...
TIE fighters do not have hyperdrive.
The original one did not have hyperdrive,
and the lives of North Shields.
But they do now.
Or at least they have hyperdrive.
They also managed to fit one of those enormous
trackers from the Star Destroyers onto their ships.
That must be awkward.
Yep.
Weighing them down a bit.
I mean, along with the hyperdrive.
Don't ask me where they fit it.
ER, do you think Dekka being a replicant is a retcon
that isn't supported by the text of the film?
And if so, why?
I do think that it was...
that originally, really, Scott was being vague about it.
I do think that he thought there was an if there.
I don't know why he...
Back on that.
I'll throw you all intent, man.
It's weird.
Well, that one's an even more murky area
because it depends on which version of the film
you're talking about.
Yeah, true.
Because as much as authorial intent is a thing,
literal differences between Blade Runner's
define the differences on whether or not
he's a replicant pretty much.
Because of the eye thing, right?
Yeah, true.
And the unicorn.
Yeah, lots of interesting things with that.
TFA is the worst one if you actively anticipated
Star Wars after that film.
You got what you deserved.
That's an angle.
TFA is the first strike.
Meaning that the other two are just sort of
the fallout from the initial blast.
I think there's a fair argument.
This is the thing.
All three of them...
I just, I don't know.
Like, I think that The Force Awakens
is the most coherent out of the three.
And that is saying something right there.
Because I think it's garbage.
Like, the space chase in TLJ is so beyond nonsensical.
And then the plot of Rise of Skywalker.
Do I even need to begin talking about that?
Like, holy fuck.
It also hits to say this,
but I hate Last Jedi slightly less.
Rise of Skywalker was dumber.
I like that these super chats are kind of relevant
to what we were talking about.
So this is useful.
Rise of Skywalker greater than TLJ, greater than TFA.
The worst for not reuniting the OT cast.
Yeah, the TFA definitely fucked up.
There's no denying it.
Also, Hi, Mauler, Rags, and Guests.
Hello.
Rise of Skywalker worst
because of the visuals, editing, and cinematography.
I mean, honestly, like,
as much as I could have issues with those things,
I wouldn't even start talking about them
before hours and hours about the writing.
But which one is the worst out of the three
for cinematography, do you reckon, folks?
The Force Awakens?
I don't know.
It's been a while since I've seen it.
And this is operating entirely off memory.
I kind of find it hard to pick
because I kind of like getting all three of them.
Yeah, I love it's bad.
I don't know, mate.
While TLJ ruined space fights and force ghosts,
TROS rendered the OT pointless.
See, they've all done damage to space battles.
The Force, Lightsabers, Jedi, Sith.
They all do different pieces
and all do more or less based on different ones.
I'd say they all collectively
render the OT pointless with TROS
just sealing it completely with Palpatine coming back.
Mm.
Screenshot pie chart and send to JJ and RJ.
Tell them their films are equally trash
and tell them thanks for ruining Star Wars.
Oh.
You know, what was the hashtag?
Thank you, Ryan Johnson.
As far as he's concerned, he saved Star Wars.
Maybe.
Let's fucking match it with Backwards Land.
TLJ is worse because you didn't expect what was coming,
but on TROS, you didn't give a shit anymore.
So TLJ is worse.
Also, hello all and also Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
But the fact that TLJ got you prepared
for the Rise of Skywalker,
I don't know.
I mean, you gotta give it a hand.
It tried to destroy it.
It tried.
Didn't quite succeed.
I got bits and bobs done, yeah.
Tried a whole bunch.
This is the thing.
It's really not necessarily important
as to which is the worst, I guess,
because they're all just so bad.
But just splitting that hair is actually kind of
just an interesting conversation,
like how to really figure it out.
The vote slash the force is balanced now.
Please someone animate the debate between us in the chat
while Mola and them are perplexed.
I don't even remember what that debate was about.
I'm fat, so I'm allowed to vote thrice.
All right.
Hey, you got it.
By the way, did y'all see Chris Stuckman's take on TROS?
Me and Rags can check that out maybe.
I haven't seen it.
Yeah, we can do that.
I would like to see what he has to say.
He is very interesting and he always has such
interesting takes.
Hey, do you like One Piece?
Oh, no.
I'm not coming off as a very good weeb tonight.
It's tough.
No weeb is expected to have seen everything.
I suppose.
Or like everything.
I mean, you're probably someone...
Would you describe yourself as someone
who dislikes more anime than the general amount
of people tend to dislike?
You pick you with your anime.
Probably.
Probably.
High Rags, Mauler, and G. Clooney's Big Break.
Snake Milk.
G. Clooney's Big Break.
All right.
Yes, hello.
What is G. Clooney's Big Break?
George Clooney's Big Break would have been ER.
Yeah.
The show.
He was on ER.
Emergency room.
You're welcome, bro.
Yeah.
Oh, goodness.
Rise of Skywalker would have been better
if she had screamed, I'm a woman.
Oh, like the Batwoman.
I'm a woman.
I miss Batwoman.
She's coming back.
She's going to save us.
I don't know.
I kind of miss every week.
Knowing that...
She knew we had to take a break to watch Star Wars.
She was like, okay, guys, I'm going to let you do that.
And we were like, oh, thanks.
Who's more powerful, Rey or Batwoman?
See, it should be Rey,
but the plot would do everything possible
in terms of luck, technology breaking,
or characters getting in the way to save Batwoman.
Rey would actually find it frustrating.
She'd be trying to kill her.
And like, things just keep going wrong for no reason.
Rey might say it wouldn't work or something would happen.
But wouldn't it work both ways?
That's true.
The plot does really look after Rey as well.
Depends which universe they're in.
Which universe is trying harder for them?
Or if the universe is clash.
Yeah, they're infinite universes.
Yeah.
And there's like a Mortal Kombat map
where it's split in half.
And every time they go to either half,
one of them starts losing and is pushed back.
How about another joke?
Pig Punch-A?
Is it in Punch-J?
Punch-J?
No, we kick-J.
Um, I saw the movie for free and I want my money back.
Yep.
The worst part of this movie is not how bad it was,
but that this is the end of the Skywalker saga
and it completely sabotaged the OT to push an agenda.
The agenda of, I guess, referring to Rey being the hero now.
If that's the claim, I would rather focus on
just how fucking awful of a character she is.
But it definitely sabotaged the OT.
I've got a bunch of free money
from taking surveys from Google.
I don't buy any apps and I can't cash it out myself.
So enjoy.
As a side note, Wolf will be missed.
Many Fs in the chat.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, he will.
Merry Chrisms, you lads.
Thank you very much.
Merry Chrimus.
Merry Chrimus?
Hux probably became the mole very recently.
Probably soon after TLJ.
I would say Poe because his character is now
he's always angry.
We didn't talk much about Poe
because Poe's barely in the film,
but I don't necessarily...
This is the thing.
I thought it was weird for Finn to say that.
Finn was like, oh, he's always so angry.
It's like, no, he's not.
Well, he's not from what we've seen.
Poe is actually pretty laid back a lot of the time.
Fun.
He's probably sick of doing everything right.
Now he's getting chat on.
Yeah.
And then being like, he's so angry
and then he's angry at Rey fucking up and stuff.
I'd be like, no, no.
He was pissed in TLJ at Holdo.
It felt entirely within character
that he would be pissed at her
for not telling anybody the plan.
I'd be upset.
I'd be like, lives are at stake, woman.
You're getting people killed out here for no reason.
Yeah, and at the same time,
he's willing to be nice to people
and have some fun every once in a while.
Like, I think...
Poe was really wasted as well.
I mean, he's not as wasted as Finn levels wasted,
but man, Poe could have been
a really cool swashbuckling hero type,
but oh, we can't have those.
He could have been like a different kind of Han Solo,
you know?
Just like a more martial version of Han Solo.
Almost like a secret agent who doesn't always...
Like a cop who doesn't always follow the rules,
but gets stuff done.
You know, like, turn on your badge, Cameron.
That sort of thing.
He gets stuff done, so they let him his badge.
You know what I'm saying?
Well, like, everything else in the movies wasn't.
Wasn't.
ER to Pig Puncher.
How about another joke?
Pigay?
Pi-gay?
Pigay?
He did his own little ethap on me, as I recall.
Oh, the guy who said...
Every frame of Nazi.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I remember that.
Oh, you're a Nazi?
Oh, yeah.
Hooray.
Ray would win.
She has force ghosts.
Also high regs.
Hello!
It is true.
She would have quite a bit of power on her side.
It's undeniable.
Think of all the women ghosts who she would...
But you know, we do have the tism guns in the Batwoman universe.
I wonder what that could do to Ray.
Shut her to...
How long until theaters charge people for no ads?
Man, I don't know about you guys,
but when I went to go see The Rise of Skywalker on the opening night,
fucking hell, there must have been 30 freaking minutes of ads.
There's a lot of ads, yeah.
I'm just gonna stop showing up on time.
I'm gonna show up like 20 minutes late for every viewing.
Well, now I want a good seat, but...
Jesus.
So many ads.
Go away.
I would agree that the most inconsistent character has to be Hux.
TFA leads us to believe he's a major player in the first order,
but TLJ shows us that he's...
That no one takes him seriously,
and TOS made him a traitor for reasons.
We kind of went over it.
I can follow along that he hates Kylo and wants to kill Kylo.
I cannot follow along the method in which he betrays the first order.
It's retarded.
So yeah, I think he's inconsistent.
I just, I really think Ray is the most inconsistent.
She acts like a fucking crazy person in this movie.
Um, I'm getting season eight flashbacks here.
Star Wars episode nine, Rise of Incest.
Beautiful.
What did the incestuous family do during Halloween?
Pumpkin.
Oh.
There you go.
They're cousins and it's in Disney Comics.
Yeah, that must have...
I think we can tell what the point of conversation was at this point.
It really is all about family.
Drama.
Galaxy spanning Star Wars is so small that incest happens.
Yeah, it's hard enough for it to happen on accident on one planet Earth.
But in a galaxy?
Oof.
Be careful who you stick your pee pee in.
Yeah, Force Seaman.
Force Seaman.
That's canon now.
Now we know why he's Creamy Sheev.
Yep.
Yes, that is new canon.
In Legends, it was Darth Plagueis.
Oh, so Legends is the one that was decanonized, yeah?
So Disney said it wasn't Plagueis.
It was Palpatine.
I'm assuming.
Um.
I think so.
Okay, use me.
The Dark Side of the Force is a pathway to many relationships,
some considered to be unnatural.
Oh no.
Sequel Trilogy steals everything from original characters,
invalidates everything they did, and hands their accomplishments to some Mary Sue.
Pretty much.
Can't deny she saved the universe from the real Palpatine and thousands of Star Destroyers.
That's way more of an achievement than any of the characters from the OT ever managed to pull off.
Yeah, that's where George Lucas fucked up.
He just should have had more.
But JJ made better movies because he just had more.
ROS made me feel more fondly about TLJ.
Depression.
Wait, are they saying they've upgraded.
To depression.
Like that's where they're at now as a result.
Snoke is the most inconsistent.
Mysterious and imposing character that wants to finish Ren's training.
And then he's ostentatious, dumb, and dead.
And then he's literally created by Palpatine and uses his finger puppet.
I mean, I don't want to be that guy, but it all follows enough, doesn't it?
You could if he was a clone, he could have just been Palpatine the whole time.
Puppeteering him to say the stuff that he said in TFA and the stuff that he said in TLJ.
I like how the argument is we're just pulling characters out as being weirdly written.
I mean, it is all really weird.
I'm just saying like you get to get away with a lot of stuff when you say that it was Palpatine
behind his voice the whole time, because you can now invent lots of motivations.
Why would he talk about needing wanting to kill Rey?
And it's like, don't you see?
He was testing Kylo.
That's what Palpatine wanted.
There's so many ways you can sort of brush it all off.
But I think we all know for a fucking fact that Snoke,
they never knew what the hell Snoke was supposed to be.
They never decided.
And then they were just like, I don't know, test you, baby lol.
Test you, baby.
How disappointing for all the people who've made all those theory videos.
Imagine all the possibilities.
There's a fucking test you'd be like, oh.
Palpatine being alive means Vader died for nothing.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
The only thing that he managed to achieve still is saving Luke's life.
Which is nothing, I wouldn't call that small in any way.
But he achieved a lot of other things that have now been destroyed.
So he didn't bring balance to the force.
That's a fucking lie.
He did not destroy an evil person that he wanted to destroy
because they were causing pain to people he loved.
Like, he saved the kid.
He didn't kill that person.
He failed to do that.
And he didn't, you know, undo the empire.
Really at all, actually.
And that applies to more than just Anakin.
That's pretty much everyone else, too.
Um, Shad, JJ listens to these streams.
No.
Oh, I'd love it if we found out JJ Abrams listens to Efab.
And he's like, huh, I never considered that.
And he actually, like, hadn't considered that.
And he agrees with everything that we say.
It just legit never thought about it.
JJ directed Star Trek and Star Wars.
Yeah, he killed them both from what I hear.
Yeah, Star Trek fans are not happy with his work.
And when he came over to Star Wars,
they were all panicking while Star Wars fans were like,
Woohoo, JJ.
And then he did Force Awakens.
You haven't seen what we've seen.
Yeah, well, this is the thing.
That was the funny thing about the red lead media video.
He was like, you need to address that you recommended JJ.
And he was like, okay, I met as a director, not as a writer.
Like, okay, that's the clarification.
He's like, all right.
Because, yeah, I think he's probably right.
I don't see why you couldn't have JJ as a director.
He seems to know what he's doing with a lot of it.
It's just that he's just like Ryan Johnson.
He cannot tell a story.
Keep him away from the script.
Yeah.
Merry Christmas, boys, and a Happy New Year.
I don't think you're bad, ER.
You're way better.
You're more real than those fake-like Quinton and others.
Oh, gee, thanks.
Yeah, you're above Quinton.
Good job.
You did it.
So I would like to remind you that Quinton, you know,
he said some choice things in that review we covered.
So being better than him really isn't much of an achievement at this point.
But something.
Cinema Reburos bad takes.
See, look at that.
That's relevant now.
We covered him.
The Last Jedi really is the Christmas miracle that continues to give and give.
I mean, yeah, and it's got company now with the films.
Will you make a an R.O.S. unbridled rage mauler?
Yes.
And I did all read drafts and the audio is all done.
And I even did the pickups for it, but I've noticed a few mistakes along the way.
I think so that's gonna have to be done.
But I've done about 15 minutes.
So I said this before, but like, that's like one and a half video essays already.
So get hype, you know, the video is two hours.
So I'm going to need another week of editing, at least if I really pushed.
But a few weeks at most.
It is on the way.
Sure.
This is a question for shad, I guess.
Oh, well, I guess I'll keep it for you.
It was really a shadow castle.
Still good idea if you include at the aircraft weapons.
Curious how at that point, how much the castle is going to help,
depending on what kind of technology you're against.
Um, pop that in our collective forums.
Yes, indeedy.
Meth and speedy.
What a make of that one.
I don't know.
It's kind of druggy.
This is a good Christian stream.
We don't do drugs here.
Retcon Cora so she dies at birth.
Ooh, yes.
Sometimes you just got to make these decisions.
Um, as tismy as Mandalorian is, uh, it at least has heart.
And I think that's what matters the most with Star Wars at this point.
As long as this intent and heart is there, we can just have a sliver of hope.
I mean, that's probably why I don't, I'm probably not going to go out of my way to
shit all over Mandalorian.
But if people ask me about it, I'll tell them it's terrible.
I don't think there's anything malicious in Mandalorian.
Like it doesn't destroy any canon or lore as far as I'm aware.
The fobs though.
The fog.
Yeah, but those are self-contained to the Mandalorian.
Are they though?
Like we need to know how exactly that could create.
Does everybody have just a signature that anyone can just attach to a
fall at some point or do you get injected with something?
Definitely really, really weird.
But it's not like it's sort of self-contained kind of in the way rogue one was.
And it's mostly, yeah, it mostly hurts itself Mandalorian rather than anything else.
Yeah, it doesn't like no, it doesn't really damage other stuff.
It's its own little disaster, but I will agree that it had like some kind of heart to it.
Like the people who made it, I don't think they hated Star Wars, which is cool.
That's where we are now, though.
Yeah, Mando's great y'all.
Now y'all will be an overly critical.
It's like, I wish that were the case, honestly.
Yeah, but we ain't.
Mandalorian's bad, bro.
Sorry.
Baby Yoda's cute.
Yeah, he sure is.
I don't care.
Baby Yoda is cute.
There you go.
Victory the show has.
Who would win?
The entirety of a global cinematic sci-fi fantasy franchise or one mousy boy?
One mousy boy.
The mouse always destroys everything you love.
Never bet against the mouse.
Asking which movie's best is like asking which type of terminal cancer I prefer.
Also for Super Chat.
Well, well.
Oh, that's really great.
Glad you finally popped your cherry with us.
All hail the hate mongers of the toxic brood.
Hi, wags.
Hail, long man.
Hello.
Hello.
And question for Shad that I will copy and keep.
Will you guys ever do an epap stream on how you would fully rewrite the latest Star Wars trilogy
either from the ground up or roughly rewriting the confines of how the story went?
We did a bit of that in that stream.
We did like two years ago, if you remember ranks one.
Yeah, we did.
Yeah, the first stream we did on it on our channel.
Yeah, so you can go check that out, I guess.
And we have sort of talked about different ideas there once in a while, but if I was to
like, be like, yes, let's commit an entire epap to really lining out lots of specifics about our
trilogy, I'd just be like, at that point, we should just write our own story if we're going
to use that much of our effort.
Pretty much, man.
It just it feels it almost feels worse.
It's just like, yes, let's talk about how how much we could have explored those different
things, those different efforts.
And then we get to look at what we actually ended up with.
Jesus, guys.
I watched the star of the stream fell asleep and woke up and y'all are still going.
Yep.
We're at eleven thirty one.
So we have exactly twenty three minutes left.
With all the stars movies out, how would y'all rank all eleven films from best to worst and why?
Also, fuck Mary, kill Padme, layer and Ray.
Slash Vader, Palps, Kylo.
All right, let's start with the ladies first.
Who would we kill, Ray?
Marry Marry, Marry, Marry.
Lay a fuck Padme.
Lay's got some great character.
Well, Padme, I'm going to block of wood.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah, fuck your brains out then.
Then Vader, Palps and Kylo.
I guess kill Palps, fuck Kylo and marry Vader.
Kylo.
Yeah, kill Palpatine, marry Vader.
Fuck Kylo.
There we go.
Actually, yeah, whenever you say layer, I think about layer from the original.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, that's I figured that was the spirit of the question.
Not fucking ancient layer.
All puppeted dead layer from episode nine.
I hope that's not the involvement.
But E.R. redemption arc reveals he was a good man all along and Quentin was the true racist Nazi.
Everything went according to his plan.
E.R. Leward, Quentin out, I guess.
Yes, wasn't interesting.
Evap.
Yeah, quite the flip of the stakes.
If you will, we were subverted in our expectations.
Quite.
Yeah, I see the turntable.
You just started reading super chats.
That's a weird one to read halfway toward the end of this one.
But yeah, okay.
And it's got a milking edge.
Even the live streams are eight hours long.
You guys are this committed to this long form thing.
Um, kind of sort of what we do.
Well, this tree would have ended at around 10 hours if not for the overflow.
So 10 hours is much more reasonable than 12.
Is it not?
I'm glad we I think so.
I'm dumb.
Can someone please explain the steamboat meme?
Yeah, that was bad.
And that was funny as shit.
What are like the unmentionables?
It's like, don't talk about that.
That never happened.
It's like,
Happy New Year, guys.
Favorite Star Wars moment.
Like of all time.
Hmm, when Obi-Wan Kenobi drops down there,
definitely the best Star Wars moment of all time.
I really like when it kicks up and they do the second Death Star run.
Lando into the center once the shields are down.
That moment is so like, here we fucking go.
My favorite might be.
Ray Dine was pretty sweet.
She didn't say that that moment was ruined.
Yeah, well, that part isn't.
I'm not going to count that part as canon in my head cannon.
She fucking stays dead.
Obviously, I don't know.
It would look like it is a big thing at all.
I was just about to say that.
Yeah.
Luke fighting Vader.
Wait, the first or second time.
Both of them are great.
This is the problem.
There's so many moments.
Hmm.
Maybe the.
Well, maybe we should do the one from each movie.
Like, what's your favorite Star Wars moment from each movie?
The Phantom Man.
So we'll start the plot.
So it's pretty obvious.
There's the Darth Maul fight.
The Fuel of the Fates fight.
Yeah, that was actually legit badass.
The attack of the clones would probably be Yooka versus Obi-Wan.
That was pretty good.
One of the clones swoop in at the end.
That was kind of nifty.
Yeah.
Like when the war starts between the clones of the droids or something.
Yeah.
Episode three.
Yeah, I'd say that.
Hmm.
I quite like Order 66, that whole bit.
Yeah, that scene.
Really nifty.
I liked the the Obi-Wan.
The Obi-Wan what you got?
Obi-Wan Grievous fight.
Um.
Before they get on the little vehicle things.
I'm not a huge fan of it because of there's just so much
there's so much movement with the forearms.
I can't really tell what's happening.
I love Grievous though, like the design of him.
I like the like the assaulting the ship at the beginning was kind of nasty.
Yeah, the opening battle.
And this is the thing.
There's a lot of movements in episode three.
They're pretty good too.
I guess though.
Yeah.
Any of the ones we just mentioned pretty much could probably make it there.
Episode four.
Probably goes far as going with the Death Star run toward the end.
Yeah, the Death Star thing is really good.
I almost want to say the the break, Leia's breakout scene.
Yeah, you know when they're fighting the troopers there in that hallway.
I thought that was really great.
They're just it's that's such a I don't know.
It's just a Star Wars moment.
And then I guess episode five would be Luke versus Vader.
Yeah, I'm thinking so.
That whole fight was just long.
But good.
The great atmosphere because the location, you know.
I mean, the yeah, the lighting and the cinematography, for lack of a more specific word,
is just fucking fantastic in that whole fight.
Vader looks spooky.
Like I said, he does like he's really menacing.
And then episode six, I guess we kind of covered those.
So should we get to the fun part?
What's your favorite moment from Force Awakens?
Um.
Oh, this is easy for me.
Yeah, I'm dying.
That shit kills me to this day.
Wait, what part?
Is your favorite part on dying?
Oh, right.
Yeah, I could see how it would be pretty funny at this point.
Oh, are we have we have we transitioned ironically?
Yeah, if we're choosing like an ironic, strong moments in these films.
I guess introduction of Rey showing a lot about the way she lives without having to say anything.
Yeah.
Is that like the only part of Ray ever?
Pretty much.
I argue that like it ends after that in terms of us understanding her.
It's like it's over from there.
There's that one other bit where she comments on how she's never seen
so much green in the world before.
I quite like that.
Huh? Yeah.
So little because JJ squeezed it in and then in right Skywalker,
he just couldn't get any of it in.
Han and Chewie intro is a suggestion from chat.
Oh, I hate seeing him as a washed up loser.
The thing I was going to say, we probably end up choosing like,
you know, like for TLJ, it's like when Luke meets up with R2,
when Luke finally gets to talk to Leia, these moments that we have to steal away.
How about like pose like return?
Like they're on the temple planet with Maz Kanata and
pokums in and he shoots the TIE fighters.
You know, like, wow, that's he's really a skilled pilot.
He's really competent and cool and amazing.
I can't wait to see him go on.
I have heard the complaints.
He's a little bit too good.
He knocks out like ridiculous amount of enemies in the span is something.
I want to say this is probably ridiculous, right?
But it's something like 15 enemies in the course of like a single 20 second shot or something.
He like just shoots the shit and naturally out of fucking everything.
And I want to highlight that.
Like I'm like, he's supposed to be the best pilot.
That's fine, but they have their limits, right?
He's like ridiculously good.
And upon like sort of thinking about it, I was kind of like, yeah,
it is kind of a little bit like superheroish.
And then I think about the fact that it's JJ's work and I'm like,
all right, yeah, everything has to be fucking amazing, doesn't it?
Like, oh, I'm in depth.
We've gotten this question.
This is so you really think you have it.
All right.
Episode from the Last Jedi favorite scene is probably Luke.
Luke and R2.
Luke and R2.
That's easy.
Fucking next movie, The Rise of Skywalker.
What's your favorite moment?
It's fucking every scene with C-3PO.
Yeah, except for the one where he gets his memory wiped.
But like the scene in the cave and the scene when they're on bluff overlooking the village.
Like unironically, my favorite scene is those two with or are those two with them?
I like Chewie and Han seeing each other as well.
These things are very thin, but I mean, that is the question.
Like literally characters seeing each other is enough for me to be like,
oh, there we go.
The best moment of the whole film, them seeing each other.
Also, Bobby Frick.
Bobby Frick, of course.
That just goes without saying anything with Bobby Frick in it.
Joker and scene, but it's E.R's smile date.
E.R's smile debut.
Fair enough?
Four minutes is not long, Rags.
Vader fight is four minutes.
It seems like it goes on longer than that, though.
And something else is happening at the same time.
Yeah, long is totally relative.
It feels longer.
Yeah.
E.R. with his so-called Nazi jokes to Normie.
Normie, what's so funny?
E.R., you wouldn't get it.
These Joker references.
All right.
Watching Rise of Skywalker gave me such a pure form of enjoyment
as I watched Disney mangle the already dead remains of Star Wars.
Truly a celestial film.
Agreed.
Truly, Tis.
I went in with very low expectations and I laughed the entire time,
especially when the Force heal and rape help teen twist reveal.
Fucking hilarious.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Yeah, it was pretty funny.
I just got out of Rise of Skywalker.
Holy shit.
That was a garbage movie.
Silver lining.
It was.
I was on a date when I saw it and we both thought it was shit.
So I know she's a keeper.
Merry Christmas, Longman.
Yeah.
Smash that.
Merry Christmas, Longman.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Merry Christmas.
Does frantic and confused screaming count as a critique?
If so, then call me Roger fucking Ebert.
Well, then.
Good luck to you.
And your your Ebert level critique and analysis in the form of a rant slash
in go here and rambling.
It's all good.
Finn wanted to ask Ray when his character arc was going to begin.
Yeah.
I was actually thought that Finn might have had a shot in this film to
be developed.
And that's why I was so sure that he would be the inconsistent one,
because they'd fuck it up.
But they just don't give a fuck.
I don't give a shit.
Finn's barely in it.
He's just he's just a big old goofball.
How does Chad think Revenge of the Sith has the best duel?
Crazy.
I think he's going strictly from like fencing rules sort of thing.
He's got videos on it.
He goes into depth on to why return the Revenge of the Sith.
How the the duel that Anakin and Obi-Wan have is
gives it quite good marks for all the moves they're using.
So it's from that perspective, I think is what he's going for.
But I can I'll save that for him so he can answer himself.
On how much info can you get from a necklace?
Every star has a unique metallicity.
It is possible a necklace retained enough of these properties.
It seems ridiculous.
That's all.
I don't think it's impossible that you could scan a necklace and know which planet it's from.
It just seems ridiculous.
It's better than him recognizing it himself.
The fact that he gave it away to be analyzed.
It's like, all right.
That's something.
Happens really fast, though.
I guess if he asks for it, they get like, they're like, oh, fuck, he's asking for it.
Oh, God, that video of Mauler as Darth Maul and JJ and RS as a Jedi.
No, that means they kill me eventually.
That would be terrible.
We don't want that.
The guy in my cinema burst out laughing at the Ray low part.
Yeah, I've honestly, a lot of people been saying that.
I wrote my comments, spirit of the moment.
But what I meant to say is they turned Ray into the Avatar at the end.
I thought there was similarities.
With the whole, like, connection with all the past versions or whatever.
Yeah, there are.
Sadly, I'll be going into those into in a little more detail.
It's fun stuff.
If you're afraid it won't count one star, give it two stars.
Oh, about like, if you give it the lowest rating and they don't get counted.
If you give it the lowest rating and they don't get counted on Rotten Tomatoes,
I don't think people should just, people just need to stop carrying Rotten Tomatoes at this point.
Yeah, man, shit.
Don't worry about it.
Like, really, don't worry about it.
Y'all spend more time here thinking creatively and insightfully about this film than the sequel
producers and directors ever thought about Star Wars.
A director has a lot on their plate.
But if we're talking strictly about the writing, it does feel that way.
I don't know how much time they actually get for the script, but again, just goddamn.
I would love to have these extended conversations with some of them
just to see what their attitude is as a whole, to understand it a bit better.
For me, TLJ is by far the worst movie.
Without its gross incompetence, woke stupidity, and hack writing,
Rise of Skywalker might have had a chance.
I think that's a false hope.
I guess, do you think it was salvageable with just The Force Awakens in the trilogy?
Or do you think it was already over?
Yes.
Do not.
Not at all.
I think it was already over.
Yeah.
Bad jumping off, I mean, it already validated the ending to DOT.
I don't think so.
This is the problem.
So you'd need a whole bunch of information on how we got...
Because this is the thing.
Like, are we supposed to believe that no one bad ever rose again in the universe
as a significant selection of people?
I'd be like, well, no, I'm sure that...
I think it definitely would have been tough with a plan.
Not impossible.
And then, well, yeah.
And then it's like, what did the remnants of the Empire do?
There's totally a story there.
Because there's still a significant portion of them, surely.
Gotta be.
They're just without leaders, or at least the significant leaders.
They've still got probably captains and generals every once in a while in different places.
So there's a story there.
It's kind of what I'm getting at.
If they all collected back up and they created the First Order,
and if we came up with an actual explanation for who and what Snoke is...
I don't know.
I don't know.
I feel like...
I mean, surely you'd agree that we have a better chance at that point
than we do with TLJ on top of TFA?
Well, sure.
But, I guess, so you think we'd probably still end up with a bad movie regardless?
Yeah, it's just more bad.
Stack on bad.
I don't know.
I'm kind of hopeful that we could apply some more payers.
I still don't think it's good.
I think we could have done a whole lot better.
Yeah.
I don't know.
You invented Rey.
That was already a humongous mistake.
True, true.
And with all of these things, I'd just be like,
how can we fix them?
How can we repair all this shit?
For example, throw good ideas like could Rey have been tricking them this whole time?
Tids out Rey is actually a double agent or something like that.
You know, like, what are all the things we can do to try and fix this shit?
That's real optimism.
I know.
I know.
But we could do a hell of a lot better than The Last Jedi.
And then if we can do that, then maybe we can do a hell of a lot better with two films in the
attempts of fixing and creating a stronger story, I suppose.
I just, you know, goddamn what we got sucked.
That's all.
It really sucked.
Rey, I'm a Skywalker and you got to deal with it.
J is 3PO and ER is R2.
Why would it be J and ER?
Wait, are they trying to say that R2 is a racist?
That is...
Oh my god.
That is fucked.
I mean, if anybody.
Yeah, I guess it makes sense.
Here when I wake, here when I sleep.
Love, y'all.
Love, ER.
Well, thank you.
I was so excited on the eve of Rise of Skywalker's release because I knew the garbage on the
horizon would keep me entertained for years to come.
Love, y'all.
Hi, Rags.
And see y'all in 2020.
Hello.
See you in 2020.
See ya.
See ya.
I'll read a couple more and then we'll sort of sign out.
Oh, this one just says Belch.
Oh, hi.
All right.
Moolah unbridled Rey, drumbridled Meh.
Oh, this is definitely a, I'm pretty pissed at this movie.
Oh, shit.
It had the potential to not fucking destroy the end of Rotator of the Jedi, didn't it?
It chose to.
It's just like, well, you could have avoided the bullet a little harder instead of just
fucking run it with it.
Could have tried.
J is Oochy Clinton.
Also, O-ed-z-dah.
I don't know what to make of this.
Also, O-ed-z-dah.
I will.
I got nothing on that.
O-ed-z-dah.
I feel like they're trying to make me say a different word, but I don't know what it is.
Yeah, I'm not sensing any dog whistles in there.
Hello, wags.
Like a weird version of that?
Like with everything moved over?
Maybe, maybe.
Yeah, it could be.
Especially with the also.
Also, high rags is one of the most common things, though.
Yeah.
Also, had this, I don't know.
I don't know.
He stumped us.
No clue.
I think it's hello, hello, wags, probably.
I like to think so because it involves me.
As a proper zig, I approve of this brood.
10 out of 10 would evolve as a critic again.
Also, high molar.
Hello.
While watching TROS try to contain my laughter to be courteous to those around me,
place was completely packed.
But when it got to the scene where Kylo Ren dies, I lost it.
I laughed my ass off.
No fucks.
Assuming it says given.
Yes.
Well, I can't blame you.
And Epson didn't commit suicide.
He previewed Rise of Skywalker.
Oh, that explains it.
Do you think RLM will split a half in the bag episode between TROS and cats?
That was actually, I think, something that I had thought about.
Would have been good.
Would have made sense.
That would have been hilarious.
Everyone in this chat, go to Rotten Tomatoes and give it two stars.
Rotten Tomatoes doesn't count one star reviews.
Its audience score is only high because of that.
I think there's more to it even than that.
Something fishy going on over there.
Definitely something fishy.
Took a friend who had no idea about the leaks and is a lifelong fan.
This movie infuriated him more than TLJ.
Knowing the leaks helped me not to throw anyone off a roof.
Thank you, Doomcock.
What a little friend though.
ER, come back and kick them all.
Kick who?
All right.
Fuck you, Quinton.
Look at it backwards.
Oh, because he spelled it Cuff, I guess.
And with that, I think just to make sure I don't cut anything too much off,
I have taken a chunk of the overflow out.
We're getting through it.
Like I said, the next one we'll probably add to it
unless me and Rags can spot some time to do an eFap mini of these things.
Wouldn't be a bad idea.
I got the time.
I got the time now.
Christmas is done.
A lot of family stuff is done.
I think I'll have the time.
I'm downright tired, I think.
That's my guess.
But that brings us to the end.
Thank you very much, everybody.
I'm going to do collect up some more of the memes that came in today for next time.
And thank you to all the guests for staying as long as they did.
And ER, you made it to the full 12 hour.
How do you feel?
Hello, Haggard.
It's been fun.
Very good cause.
Thank you all for joining us.
We will catch you in the future.
My video is on the way.
More stuff from eFap and Rags and myself to come.
Good night, everybody.
And have a good new year if you don't see us until after it.
Good night, everyone.
Bye.
We made it.
Bye.
Fucking hate Trump.
