But yeah, you'd think like, oh, it's such an early one that of course rags and wolf wouldn't
be able to tear it up.
It's like, that wasn't how this happened, but sure.
Well, we're originally going to be like, what, six hours before originally to accommodate
them to?
Um, well, yeah, it was, it was two timeframe options, but I couldn't make one of them because
there was a there was a baby in my house.
Yeah.
Can't be waking them up.
Those things need sleep, but, uh, those things, you know, there's just, you know, there's
disgusting creatures that attach themselves to better humans.
Um, I think I actually saw, I think I saw something on Twitter the other day where someone
unironically tried to say that unborn children are parasites.
Like yeah, I saw that.
Yeah.
They probably fit some kind of definition, but I mean, well, I mean, come on, like,
what are you doing?
Well, yeah, I just be like, okay, what's your point?
Oh, by sweet parasites.
I love politics, guys.
Yeah.
It's, it's just settled down.
So dead.
It started properly here.
Watch the deleted Captain Marvel seat.
Has everyone here seen that?
I have not.
I suppose we could, let's see if we can get that through YouTube.
I don't know.
What is it called?
Like Captain Marvel, violently beat the man.
Yes, please.
Captain Marvel.
It's not deleted though.
Or I don't know if it's considered.
It's in.
Apparently some people saw it in the cinema.
It was like, no, they didn't.
It wasn't deleted.
It's right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was, they call it the extended sign.
The extended.
I was wrong for saying it wasn't in the film.
And then I was like, Oh, are they getting confused?
They think I'm talking about like the scene as a whole.
Cause I was like, no, no, no.
I fucking made a video on it.
I remembered that scene, but not that particular way.
It went.
Well, I got to imagine that, you know, the editor, while they were putting
it together, they turned around and looked at their supervisor and said,
Hey, so can we like not put this in the room?
Did you see my, uh, so I think it was Tim Poole on, uh, uh, Twitter said that
like, she's a straight up villain and someone linked Indiana Jones shooting
the guy who's like brandishing the sword.
And he's like, Oh yeah, because, you know, heroes never do anything that's
unethical.
He just fucking threatened to kill him.
Like, what?
I, uh, I saw someone to terminate it.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Of course.
Cause that makes it very good.
Yeah.
A cyborg that's designed for killing.
And he's even more sympathetic.
On par morally.
Yeah.
I, uh, I saw someone in the comments.
I think they said something along the lines of cause someone saying this is
like, that's, this is nuts that a hero would do this.
And someone said, Oh yeah.
But remember when Spider-Man let the bad guy get away?
It's like, yeah.
And then you remember how his, his uncle died.
It wasn't a preferable choice.
Um, yeah.
All right.
Well, we'll open with just so whoever.
So me and Fringy and Robo head, we've all seen this, right?
Is it Alex who hasn't correct?
I think.
All right.
Well, we'll have to watch it bit by bit, but this is the same scene from the
film.
It's just that they've a few things have changed.
Um, if you remember the original one is the, he turns up, he's like, Hey babe,
smile.
I don't even think he says babe.
Does he say anything?
Like fuck.
He just says smile.
And that of course is the most horrible thing you can do.
So, uh, she steals his stuff when he goes into the shop.
That's all that happens.
But in this vision, which is quite funny by the way, cause a lot of people
didn't see this movie like, uh, so this is a clip they've seen now alone.
And now they're just like, Jesus, what else does she do?
What kind of monster is this character?
Yeah.
Apparently he's from EastEnders as well.
I saw people on Twitter saying that's where this actor is from as well as
Pacific Rim or something like that.
Um, Oh, he looks like, uh, the main guy's brother actually.
Now that you said that.
But I thought what two, what bizarre two things to link him EastEnders, which is
like really low brow fucking soap opera in Britain versus Pacific Rim.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, that's all right.
I'm offering to help you.
Yeah.
People saying this Rob Kaczynski in chat.
At least you could do is give me a smile.
How about a handshake?
Yeah.
See, actually, I don't know if you guys saw as far as I didn't know the
context of this clip goes, but I was like, Oh, that's kind of better than, uh,
the way it goes in the film even sort of, but then.
Even shakes the hand seems to be like the dawn.
Wow.
Did you say they call me the dog?
I think so.
I think that's meant to be a joke.
It's such a cool day.
I'm not laughing.
He has a much bigger hand than she does is what I just noticed.
Yeah. Well, she's stronger than him and she has electrocuting powers.
And I thought that what they were going to do here was that he wouldn't like over
hand and then she had to electrocute him, which would make more sense.
Like he's trying to like grab her up or whatever, but no, she just straight up.
You're going to give me your jacket, your helmet, and your motorcycle.
And in return, I'm going to let you keep your hand.
Alex, you must know that reference.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Fuck.
Yeah, man beat the fuck out.
Yeah, that's it.
And so the scene is kind of changed from the original.
Why did I go?
Well, did the water change there?
Well, once you include that, I don't know.
Well, I mean, as free just pointed, I was like, when you were in the editing phase,
probably like, I don't know if this is sympathetic.
Like this is a bit.
This is a bit.
Also, like, what if he was armed?
Like, and he just shot you in the face, like that might happen.
He wouldn't have done shit if he did to her.
Right.
Well, I can't remember actually.
This is why you don't create overpowered hero.
Well, if you remember the bullets, we're going to pre realizing she's a God.
Well, what changes between the beginning of the movie, remember,
she fell out of the ship and crashed through the blockbuster ceiling and there
were no cuts or bruises.
So we've got to assume that if you drove a train into her,
the train would crash and like explode.
Yeah.
Well, she doesn't remember that, you know, she's kick ass.
Yeah.
She, but yeah, she's still immortal.
Like six hours ago, she fell out of the sky.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah.
She could probably take a nine millimeter.
Yeah.
Certainly.
Once she becomes OP, nothing is going to be able to beat her at that point.
Not even good old Thanos, even though he does get a punch on it.
And I'm sure everyone was really fucking.
Do you remember my reaction to that in the cinema?
Slap.
Get off.
What did I say?
I was like, Oh, thank God.
Genuinely.
I think a lot of people had their actions and like, please don't let her do this.
Thanos.
I was quite nervous.
Oh, geez.
Don't rob this from tiny.
Don't you take a glove.
Don't you do it.
But didn't you have that feeling every time she came on screen in that film?
This is like, I just think, just like what?
And then she disappeared again.
You'd be like, Oh, fuck.
Yeah.
No.
When she said I have to go for a few months, I was like, Ooh.
I just heard the ad when she smashes for the ships out of the spaceship.
It was like,
Oh, fuck off.
When she said I have to go for a few months, it was like she was looking straight at the camera, just reassuring everyone.
It was so weird.
I'm going to be too busy to be here.
Okay.
It looks in the camera like, fuck you guys.
Even though all of it was was done before her movie, right?
So yes, it's like it's like the roosters knew that everyone would hate her.
Well, it might have just been that they're like, we got nothing to work with here.
So like, why even keep her around?
We don't know what her movie is going to be.
What do you mean for me?
She's the new leader of the Avengers.
I, you know, it's funny you said that I'm now starting to think that it is going to be Spider-Man, which makes me very happy.
Yeah.
Um, Captain Marvel, too.
I have no idea what the fuck we're doing with her.
She needs a movie where she gets to actually meet all of these heroes and talk to them.
There's a lot of things I like.
You got to, I mean, where do you go from taking on an entire space, almighty yourself, like in two minutes?
Where do you go that isn't just completely depower the character permanently?
And because there's what I, you know, like they're probably just going to depower it.
And then at the end of the movie, it's like, oh, I figured it out, guys.
Now I'm good.
It's like, cool.
So we're back when we started.
I can picture some of this generic is that like the beginning of the movie, she's sapped with a laser and she's like, oh, no, I can't do all of the things I normally do.
Oh, no.
And then she just to learn, she's more than just her power.
She's more than just her power, guys.
More.
That's not like that's ever been done before in any superhero story.
Yeah.
Well, at least like with like the time machine, you could say, oh, yeah, it's destroyed now.
So we can't rebuild it.
And now Tony's dead.
We can't.
Nobody else can figure out how to build another one.
And then, you know, that's still online.
That's still pretty.
I know.
Especially got Professor Hulk and Hank Pimmer alive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, Tony, like how do you know, like he cracked the spelling mistake in the equation and he remembers it.
And like everyone else wrote it down.
Yeah.
Ten minutes to go to say all these things.
They have a character go.
What about this?
No, that doesn't work because of this reason.
OK.
What about this?
No, that doesn't work.
OK.
Well, like put a magnet on your fridge.
Just like, right.
Here's the formula.
Don't lose it.
Oh, shit.
Where is it?
I got a feeling that there's not going to be any more time travel malarkey ever again in the MCU.
And if it does, why?
We need to throw.
We need at least a throwaway line to say like, I don't know.
You could bring down the one of the things called the guys with the giant heads.
You might know that.
Or the centerless.
Yeah.
I think that.
Oh, wait.
I know who you're talking about.
The guys with like cloaks that have giant heads.
Someone in chat.
They turned up in Guardians of the Galaxy 2 for a few seconds.
I mix them up with the ones from DC Comics.
Somebody said.
Oh, they just watches.
OK, so yeah, you get you get characters like that come down to Earth and they're like,
do not ever use the time thing ever again or we will destroy you like that sort of thing.
Yeah.
OK, OK, OK.
Solve your problems in other ways for now on.
Or maybe I don't know.
You just have like.
But what happens when you got fantastic for it and you got like Reed Richards, who's also
meant to be like one of the most intelligent.
What about Shuri?
Is she going to figure it out?
No, they're all allowed to.
There you go.
Throw away line.
Not allowed to.
Stop it.
What?
There's like a law that says, hey, guys, no, no, don't do that.
Dude, they'll have like a scene where scientists on a screen is like the quantum physicalization
is actually damaged.
There's a crack in the universe.
If we do it again, it'll open wider.
And if something comes through, it's Galactus.
Oh, my God.
I don't know.
Some bullshit.
Some bullshit.
Yeah.
It was comic books.
Yeah.
Doesn't have to make sense.
Yeah, I guess that's you know, that's that's the intro to whatever.
There's enough people here to be like, hello.
This is number 36.
Special guest robot head.
How do you do, sir?
I'm well, thank you.
You make videos.
Do you not?
I do.
I do.
Yeah, there you go.
And I should make more of them.
That's true.
Keep more up.
Yes.
So you're one of the lucky few had actually had their videos showcased on eFAB.
And we just laughed along with it.
We didn't actually say this is terrible.
Yeah, that's going to be pretty rare, doesn't it?
It's not very rare because we're assholes.
And for those wondering, Wolf is still on vacation and Rags is, I'm guessing, either
asleep or dealing with current issues, but I haven't been able to contact it or hear
from him.
So if he does turn up, he probably want to jump in and that might happen.
But for now, we have Fringy replacing Rags and with us back since what was the last time
you came on here?
I was episode like seven.
It's been a while.
It's been a long time.
Well, I'll check the wiki.
How do you do?
I'm good.
How do you both?
Oh, yeah, you got a wiki.
I just remembered you got a wiki.
We have.
Oh, yeah.
Are you talking about the website or the or the wiki?
OK.
All right.
It's the website.
The website.
Oh, yeah.
You can find, like, guest listings on the website to see.
Yes.
The way we're here today with with stuff and things to talk about.
Plenty of videos to cover, too.
It's all going to be fantastic.
The top of the day, though, we've got to mention it.
Game of Thrones ended.
I know that there's people in my fan base right now like, hey, where's the coverage
for the other episodes?
They're on the way right in the script for episode five has been extremely
difficult because there's not much that isn't wrong with episode five.
It's going to be a long one.
And then episode six is a disaster because it's the last one, which means do I
know every plot thread that isn't concluded or just left on the floor?
Do I mention that in the last episode?
I don't know.
Is this a long video?
Yes, terrifyingly long.
But entertaining, hopefully, because this is the only thing we've got left.
Oh, yeah.
So I actually mentioned on a stream the other day by the other day, I literally
mean like, I don't know, three hours ago that I was watching.
Like I got family visiting who all like Game of Thrones and they were like, oh,
the new season's done.
Is it?
And I was like, you know, we can all watch it.
We'll watch it all in a row over two nights.
And I was like, and I watched episode one and two.
It was going great.
I was like, yeah, it is.
It's pretty good.
And they watched episode three and they were like, it was funny.
What's what are your kills?
Did I kick the role?
Like, okay.
Okay.
Oh, that wiped out all of them.
Okay.
Wow.
So that's done then.
Like my sister's boyfriend was like, oh, that's it for that.
I was like, well, you got three episodes left.
Yeah.
By the time we'd watched the sixth one, everyone hated it.
Everybody in the room was just done with it.
They were like, no.
And several people said they've killed the entire series.
Very interesting to watch it all happen in real time.
And just to try and probe questions out of people, because even stuff like
virus dying, my family were like, seems weird.
The virus would be killed.
He's like super smart.
Like, yeah, not quite.
So, yeah, you know, and the public is still not happy.
The petition's up to 1.6 million signages, I believe, and just a general
bad taste in everyone's mouth about this series with plenty of videos.
Should I start it?
When people haven't watched it, they're like, should I start it from the start?
It's like, no, don't bother.
Yeah, that's how much damage it is.
It's not even worth watching the start.
Yeah, I've kind of accepted that.
I'll never watch it again.
I'll be watching it again, but specifically for a season overview.
So I want to go be reminded of all the painful lines to collect about how all
the characters have been ruined.
You know what JB says?
I never cared about the innocent, but legit, because I was sitting next to my
sister's boyfriend.
He just went, what?
I was like, just don't think about it.
It's too painful.
Yeah, they released the documentary like Making Of, which a lot of people are
talking about right now.
I haven't watched all of it yet, but there is a part that's very interesting.
I was telling Alex about it today, but the actor for Varys, Comlith Hill, they're
going through his death scene and Daenerys is like, I think he says something like
one line and then she's about to read out her whole bit before she burns him.
And like the actor, once he's read out his light, he just closes his script and
throws it across the table and just like pouts, basically.
Wow.
They skip forward.
He's just got his, he's got his arm over someone else.
He looks very upset.
They're like, it's okay.
Jeez.
If the show was amazing, I think people would be like, oh, he's obsessed.
His character's dead.
But the thing is, you're just like, is he upset because there's a shit right here?
That's it.
That's how I go.
That this is my scene.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it's like what I hear is that the reason why merely a clock maybe
is upset with this is it's like people are going to remember Daenerys as the person
who burned down an entire city filled with innocent people.
Yeah.
It's just like, yeah, that's kind of sucks.
Remember their last act much more than you will all the others.
Yeah, exactly.
And yeah, I believe that I'm paraphrasing, but I believe she was quoted in saying
that she called her like mother and sisters when she read his script for the first
time and she asked them, like, how do they see Daenerys?
Like, like questions that are really odd, but you can totally see why she would ask
them that.
Right.
Basically, how much am I about to disappoint everyone like this?
This is going to be fun.
Oh, geez, that's sad.
It is sad.
And this is the thing now.
You've got a quote from near enough.
All the actors in some way, shape or form that are derogatory towards the writers,
even if it's in like a playful way outside of like the person who plays
Sansa Stark.
She's been vehemently against fans who are disappointed, which I find very
amusing.
Like the idea that.
Well, she said they worked hard.
So.
Yeah, but she's totally the same.
You're not allowed to say anything because they went to work.
She just knows that in a few months time when the X-Men film comes out, she's
got to go over this all over again with X-Men fans.
So she's fucking just like, oh, give us a break.
Can we even?
But I mean, like, yes, it's going to be the end of the Fox X-Men era.
But I mean, what are the where is it?
Oh, yeah, that's what it is.
But what's going to could she possibly what I'm trying to say is like, I doubt
she's going to be able to ruin anything.
They're like, they're pretty.
Well, it's a bit different, right?
Yeah, like there's already enough bad X-Men movies.
It's like, whatever.
They've never had built a potential and paid it off in the next film.
So yeah, I mean, I guess so.
But I guess the thing is, because I actually I sort of have a fondness for some
of those movies.
And they're they're sort of hyping this one up as like, this is this is what it's
all been leading to.
This is our end game.
And it's like, no, no, no, not the universe to be the fucking shit show from
the start.
We know that this was meant to be the start of a new trilogy of X-Men movies.
And then when Disney bought them, it's like, oh, wrap it up, guys.
You know, just wrap it up.
And like, you know, Logan would probably be the more fitting end because it's
seeing two main characters of the whole series.
I mean, isn't in Logan, isn't it like the majority of the mutants are dead?
But yeah, basically all of them are dead.
You think you think that would be the natural end?
Well, yeah, because it ends with the passing of the torch to the new mutants, you
know, and it's also just a fitting end for all the characters in it.
Yeah.
And let's be honest, Professor X and Wolverine, they were the two biggest
favorites, probably outside of Magneto.
From the X-Men.
Yeah.
That's the big thing, isn't it?
Right.
Like the main ones that everybody likes are Magneto, Professor X and Wolverine
and Deadpool.
Yeah.
But he's more of an ancillary character.
But otherwise it's like, yeah, I don't know.
I mean, I guess it's like, what do they aim to achieve with this?
They're like, oh, we fucked up Dark Phoenix that other time, but we'll get it
right.
And you don't and you get it wrong, which is likely then one.
It's like, oh, sorry.
What's everyone's take on the X-Men X-Men movies from Fox as a whole?
Wildly inconsistent.
Wildly, wildly inconsistent.
Some of the best and worst superhero movies come from that series.
For someone that doesn't follow it closely, it's a confusing series to try and
join in and watch, but you just don't have any idea what's going on.
Like the Marvel films, you can watch any of them on their own.
But those X-Men films, I never know what the hell is going on.
Well, do you guys like the idea that they were going to be doing the Origins series,
but the first one flopped so hard that they just moved off?
Yeah, that was the impression I got from the naming rights, like, oh, you're going
to do X-Men Origins Magneto or something.
I was like, that movie, man.
Because X-Men Origins Wolverine came out before first class, right?
Just so I know my timeline.
Yeah, it was one, two, Last Stand Wolverine, then first class, then The Wolverine,
Days of Future Past, Apocalypse.
So the idea probably was like, we'll do individual films for all of them.
We'll make loads of money.
Just do one film for the origin of early X-Men young days.
First class, just do it.
Well, I like first class.
I actually like that one.
I'd say that's one of the better ones.
Oh, yeah.
I'm trying to say they were clearly going to go for an origin movie for everybody
individually, and then they were like, fuck it, just scramble to one movie
because The Origins Wolverine negatively tagged everything.
The thing is, though, it's like they did their origin movie first class, which I
would say of the ones that have come after that in the main line, they're like
the only ones that are...
It's been 30 years since first class, but they all look the same age.
This is meant to be the 90s now, and you all look the same as you did in the 60s.
Well, do you remember?
I can't remember if I told you, but we covered a video in EFAP 10 from Vox,
where they said they were criticizing the MCU for its continuity.
And they said, like, not everyone can be as good as the X-Men franchise,
which has the best continuity out of any comic book movie franchise.
I was like, why not?
Its continuity is like the worst out of any ones.
Yeah, like, I don't think I've seen many examples of...
Because, like, is Logan in the same continuity as the X-Men movies?
Who the fuck knows?
Because that doesn't seem possible.
I was going to ask that, because that film's so good,
but it just seems so completely separate from everything else.
Well, I think that's probably why I wasn't sure.
Yeah, and I wasn't even sure where it was meant to be,
but, you know, who cares? They don't care, so why should I?
Well, you go, X-Men 1, 2, 3 is definitely a thing.
X-Men Days of Future Past definitely feels as though it's the future parts of them
are the future of the first trilogy,
and then the past parts are the continuity from first class.
Yeah, but first class is the same continuity as...
The idea is that from Days of Future Past all the way up...
No, from first class all the way through X-Men Origins Wolverine, X-Men 1, 2, 3,
then Days of Future Past, and then it splits...
Then Apocalypse.
Yes, then Apocalypse is now in the revised timeline or something.
But it doesn't work, because Wolverine, you know, comes back to the...
You remember at the end of Days of Future Past when you got Beast there,
and you got Jean Grey, and you got Cyclops, and they're all like, it's the same...
It can't be the same as Apocalypse.
There's no way.
So I don't understand, I don't...
Excuse me.
Excuse me.
If they're being confused now...
And if the MCU absorb the mutants and do something great with them,
that'll be great. Let's hope they do.
Let's hope the MCU isn't done, you know?
With making stuff that's entertaining.
No, I think with them, there's so much to pull from.
Fantastic Four, you got Doctor Doom, and everything that comes with that.
I think we have to basically just say the wheel building's fucked in the MCU from now on, though,
because there's so many things to keep track of in terms of technology, abilities, and powers.
Unless you have a really small-scale story, I think that they could easily have a Daredevil film, for example.
Yes.
Something like that.
So they should! So they should!
Everyone's going to start this show.
I mean, I'm pro-Daredevil, I like Daredevil.
I like Punisher and Ghost Rider, get them all in there.
But they're in the... Or at least Ghost Rider's in the SHIELD TV show, isn't he?
Yeah, yes, he is.
Very tightly. Look, I think they're still like 50...
Because I know that Kevin Feige's been asked about the continuity of the new TV shows that are coming out for Disney,
and he was saying they're intimately tied to the movies, like 100%, as opposed to what they've been doing recently.
Well, as previously, with the Daredevil and Iron Fist and all that other stuff being in the universe,
but also could not be if you were to just leave them alone, because it's nothing that the other movies...
Well, the thing is, there are references.
Because they reference the New York stuff from Avengers in all the shows, I think.
But then it gets a bit weird, because there's an episode of Luke Cage, and just a heads up, guys.
If you haven't seen him, you don't need to watch any of the other ones except for Daredevil.
But there's a part in it where they're talking to each other, and Luke Cage is like,
man, I can't believe that you fought a dragon. I can't believe that.
And I'm just like, really? You live in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and you can't believe that there are dragons.
Really?
How much had happened up to that point?
This is like, post... I'm pretty sure this is like at least 2015.
Is it post the alien invasion of New York?
Yes, it is post New York, yes.
Alright, yeah, I could be like, so the dragon, did that come from space?
You never know with this shit.
But yeah, MCU.
Oh, they have the raft as well, by the way. They reference the raft.
Do they go there, or do they just say it?
There's a character who's meant to get sent to the raft because she's dangerous.
So yes, that means it's post Civil War.
Fuck, we got far from home's coming soon now, right?
Yeah, a month.
Fuck, we gotta go see that. Gotta go see King of Monsters as well.
Ow, that's out in like, tomorrow or whatever.
Is it?
Yeah, apparently, so we'll be able to see that soon.
I'm looking forward to that, Charles Dance versus Godzilla, why not?
Yeah, well, yeah, we can see about that.
Though, I saw a trailer, and there was like a character that said something like,
there are 14 of them now. I was like, 14? Jesus.
You got 14 monsters in your movie?
Like, alright, I don't know if that's maybe...
Because like, the year of the first movie, you only had two of the same monster in Godzilla,
and a lot of people were like, you know, a bit limited there.
But then this one, apparently, is going fucking all out, having everything.
I'm keen for that, man. Like, it looks really cool.
Yeah, well, I hope it's good.
That's basically it.
It looks like Rags this year, but it looks like he was unaware that this...
Maybe I gave him the wrong time zone after check now.
But we'll get him in. We haven't started anything yet, so it's alright.
Let me have a look quick.
I was so tired, I almost fell over Ping.
Oh no.
There's an opening line.
Which is hard when you have four legs.
I thought your human is the one that we...
No, I peed for myself.
Weirdo.
What the fuck?
Hello, Rags. How do you do? Rags, robot head. Why don't you say hello to each other?
Hello to each other.
Hello, Mr. Rags. Or is it Rag?
It's Rags.
Yes. No, no, I know.
I was just checking. I said 5am your time. I said that to you, bastard.
I don't know why I thought 6.
The light is barely creeping through the window shades.
These days I barely get to see darkness.
And I say that as some kind of edgy child, but like...
I get to see the darkness.
It's like 10pm and I'm like, oh, it's finally starting to dim outside.
Yeah, that's the link we need.
And I suppose since you're here now, we may as well get onto the first video.
Because why not? We've been talking about...
Well, interestingly, the first video is one that can work for all of us.
All of us have seen Captain Marvel, have we not?
We've seen her what?
Seen her abuse men.
I've seen her abuse men. I've seen her abuse Skrull.
I've seen her abuse...
Pre-creed old people.
I've seen her abuse logic and reason.
I've seen her abuse so much right now.
If you want to join the link ranks, we'll be putting on a...
Watch together?
Oh, yes.
The premise of this video, I guess, is that...
I don't know, actually, I guess I should let it speak for itself.
The thumbnail's not very flattering.
But who cares? It looks really bad art, but hey.
Like a clipart sort of...
I'll post it in Discord so you guys know what I'm talking about.
See what I mean about the font?
Oh.
Yes, it's ugly.
Yes.
That's... Holy crap.
Is this like 2003?
Jesus.
Like, this is something that my Mo would make kind of PowerPoint.
Thank you for the reminder chat, or at least trash.
I forgot to do just before we get started.
Robot head.
Who do you think will be the most inconsistent character of episode nine,
or in other words, the one written so incorrectly compared to who they are?
I wanted to answer this.
I was going to have to think about it before, in case you brought it up.
There's people we can't pick, isn't there?
Yeah, you can't pick Kylo, because that's the obvious choice.
You can't pick Lando, because we fucking forgot Lando was in the film
and he's obviously going to get destroyed.
And the last one you can't pick is Palpatine, because we also did that.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
Since Solo came out, does the Millennium Falcon count as a character now?
Oh!
You're going to play a dick at it, so yeah.
I think maybe Hux, because he changed so much between the first two,
that I reckon they'll try and take him back to how he was in Force Awakens.
I think he might be the most inconsistent.
The only other person who voted for Hux was Rags, so you're in good company.
What? He voted for Hux?
He did.
Yay, my brothers!
Nobody's voted for Leia, BB-8, or C-3PO yet.
Well, someone will get there one day.
Leia's dead.
Exactly.
Do you think you're safe from beyond the grave, Rags?
That would be inconsistent.
So, I don't think that they will have the time to fuck up her character that much
with the footage they're going to get.
I think they're going to keep it really short and sweet with her character,
so they're not going to have the sheer screen time.
The laws of the temporal universe will save dead Leia from being misused.
Not even Disney.
All the money in the world can't buy you a second at time.
That's not true.
If you bought the Infinity Gauntlet, then you'd be able to do all kinds of shit.
I don't think it's for sale.
That's your opinion. You don't know that.
But what you could do is you could use all of your money to build a jet ski
that is so fast on the ocean that you slow,
like for you, time slows down because your jet ski is so fast.
So, is everybody in the watch together?
I can see four names right now, which means we're missing somebody.
Oh wait, let me load. Hold up, hold up.
Fucking drunk high rags over here.
I want this early morning rags.
I don't think we've ever done any... I was about to say Efags.
Thanks, brain.
Efap this early. I can't remember the last time we ever did one like this.
No, we didn't.
We did three in the morning.
I was going to say, Shad's was earlier than this.
Yeah, but three... Shad's was so early that it wasn't even like morning.
It was like, yeah, it was late and I...
Yeah, it was so early it was late, so I didn't even...
No, I drove a long way to get here for that.
I have clicked the video and nothing's happening on my screen.
Is it working for you guys?
This happened last time we were doing this.
Pause it if you guys can.
Yeah, I paused it on seven seconds.
All right, seven seconds.
It looks like it's loading now.
Oh, Jesus.
Oh, three last seconds.
All right, let's go with no context other than the title.
The title is Another White Guy Reviews Captain Marvel, okay?
Oh, thank God.
I do not need a 40-year-old white dude to tell me what didn't work for him about a wrinkling time.
Of course he's getting mad.
It wasn't made for him.
Oh, Brie Lawson, wait until you get a load of me.
Ow, okay.
Alan's singing my friend.
Yeah.
Because you know why this happens, by the way, I genuinely think this is a thing.
When you're in Vegas and you get, well, whatever program you've got, when you see the waveforms,
sometimes you'll be like, got to get the waveforms to look the same and that's balancing.
It's like, it's more complicated than that.
You just listen to it.
Yeah, I know.
It sounds condescending.
You just listen to it.
It's easy.
You see, we're so wrapped up.
We're so wrapped up in our technology and our modern world systems that what we don't remember is that
we have these holes on the sides of our head, your holes.
Why the fuck is it skipping around?
Sorry, sorry.
I got, my Discord shortcut does the same.
Well, yeah.
Okay.
Sorry.
You gremlin.
I mean that in a good way.
Carry on, Ranks.
You won't be smart.
All right, fine.
Point proven.
Why some quotes?
I don't know.
It's the title, I guess.
Just have it be.
It's just a title.
I got to push the video all the way back up to fall because the stupid music was too loud.
You think that at the beginning of Avengers Endgame, they put it in quotes like Avengers with quotes on it.
It's like, no, they are.
No, they are.
All right.
Have you guys not watched Always Sunny?
Do you not know that this is a reference to Always Sunny in Philadelphia?
I know the music is.
Yeah, that's how it's exactly the format.
That's just how they do it on the show.
The quotes?
I just assumed you guys knew that.
Yeah, that's how they do it.
No, I don't watch the television programs.
But why does it work here?
What connection is it to?
I don't know.
It's just a joke.
It's just a reference.
Oh, he looks like he takes puberty blockers.
I'm about to record my video on the hit masterpiece film Blockers starring John Cena.
And then I forgot that I hadn't even seen Captain Marvel yet.
There have been so many dudes on YouTube.
Yeah.
Guess where he's from Axiom Wise.
What would you guys guess?
Oh, my God.
Well, somewhere, I'd imagine.
You came.
I thought he was Australian.
Maybe.
Maybe.
Yeah.
Give me a little bit more time.
He's not Australian.
All right.
Let's just wait a minute.
He's from Boston.
Wait, sorry.
What?
He's from Boston.
Well, what was Freaky saying?
I recognize this person.
I think I saw them make a video.
That was checked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've seen this guy's channel before, actually, now that you've pointed it out.
What have you seen him before?
He made a video on Daredevil waiting correctly.
Season three is a direct, like Reed's telling a porn again.
And this is like, yeah, that's wrong.
I don't know what to say to you about that.
Well, there you go.
Freaky radiates it.
Isn't he like a little channel?
Doesn't he have a tiny little channel?
I don't know.
I haven't actually checked out his channel.
I just have been sent this video.
No, he's Australian.
I just found it on Twitter.
I knew it.
No, he's from Boston.
Yeah, he did say he's from Boston.
No, I bet he's from Israel.
Who said that in chat?
What if he's a Martian?
You don't know.
He could be a Martian Jew.
I didn't know Martians had Jews.
That's cool.
Jews could be.
They could be from anywhere.
Ukrainian Jew could be.
Who knows where he came from.
You know, they, you know, after the thing happened, they all spread out again.
You know, who knows where he went.
You know, making big buckaroos off of this movie.
And I kind of feel inferior for not doing.
Sorry.
You said big buckaroos.
He said he feels inferior.
That's his that's his Jewish heritage.
He feels inferior, but he's not.
There's so many dudes making big buckaroos.
Interesting.
Now these days it's.
So if you get views, you're making big buckaroos.
I guess that's the translation.
What if people just wanted to see the video or what if people made their fucking their
review on the fallout video and I guess their music now gets claimed and it used to not
get claimed before.
So they didn't make a fucking cent on it.
What about then?
That white guide you man.
What about that?
I don't think he cares.
You don't make shit.
It was off of this movie and I kind of feel inferior for not doing the same thing.
So I kind of waited to see this movie for a very long time because when it came out,
there was a big wave of, you know, negativity or positivity on Twitter.
And it was a big wave of negativity or positivity.
The possible things like two tsunamis from different ends of.
I guess of the world.
Yeah.
He felt like it was like two waves on opposite ends of the sea of Galilee that slowly but
surely smash into each other in the middle.
It was a real interesting day.
The sun rose and sets.
Oh, wow.
Well, I guess he felt they were talking about it too much just in general.
It was just like when Jesus went out onto his boat with his fishermen apostles and he calmed
down.
The stormy seas and he got out and he walked around and said, look at what the fuck I can
do.
I'm Jesus.
You think they were like sleeping?
No, it's the story.
I never I was never told that one.
But yeah, yeah, he he goes out and he I think I don't know.
I think one of them falls off the boat and he gets in the water and he pulls them.
Yeah, he goes out and he walks on the water.
Then he reaches down, which is so I guess his feet he could still like walk on the water,
but he could also reach down into the water.
So it's very selective like he could do both because if you couldn't put your hand through
the water because you're walking on it, you couldn't help your you know, your homeboy.
You'd have to like reach up.
Oh, New York City is a friend of Houston Productions.
Houston Productions doesn't like me.
A lot of people don't like me, though.
So it's fine.
Positivity on Twitter and YouTube.
And I didn't really want to fucking do it.
I wanted to see the film on my own.
I'm sick of people saying these things.
Man, everybody was being irrational, not me.
I was the only sane one.
All the sinners.
I saw the crowds.
They were of one mind.
I was of my own.
You're all individuals.
I'm not.
Yeah, no, you know, the idea that it's like, you know, I got to get a seat on my own.
Can't let other opinions like Sully mine.
Like, oh, all right.
Go for it.
Maybe you should do that all the time.
Yeah, why is that not your default position?
I mean, almost the time I let the crowd.
It's why maybe not everyone talks about all films, you know.
Yeah, I don't review movies professionally, but casually in my spare time.
I dabble.
You know, I I do a little bit of the critiquing of the cinema dude
who says you can't have feelings or whatever.
Right. And that wolf guy.
Yeah. Robot head says we can't have feelings.
I guess that makes sense.
Robot robots don't understand complicated organic processes
that we have to go through.
I don't get influenced by anybody.
That's pretty cool, dude.
You are. Hey, the robot in my analogy that I made to just right.
Yes. Here he is.
Guys revealed in the flesh.
He needs to shave that.
No, tangent, tangent.
He needs to shave his mustache.
He doesn't have one.
Yes, yes, he does.
Look, he does.
Nice. It's just terrible.
Oh, oh, he's talking about.
Oh, yeah, he is.
Yeah. What did you think?
I mean, when I said his robot head, that's what we were talking about.
No, no, robot head.
No, he's a he's a robot head.
Robot heads don't grow hair.
Like that was why I said one unless they're a super crazy
magic robot was like does like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Terminator.
He grows hair, apparently.
I guys, great.
Yeah, that's true. That's true.
I guess they do try and explain that it can regrow all of this, whatever.
I wanted to see the film on my own.
I wanted to see the film and judge the film based on its own merits.
I didn't want to be influenced by anyone.
Wow. So stunning and brave.
For negatively.
So like a good person, I went to the cinemas
and actually paid for a ticket to see Captain Marvel.
I paid for a ticket.
What a good person.
I'm more than good.
I paid for my ticket.
I paid for a ticket, too.
I wish I didn't, though.
Yeah, no, that's the thing, right?
Like you're a morally whatever.
I wish I wish I wasn't so morally virtuous.
That film, I feel like I was robbed.
I don't think I want my money back.
He's going to say didn't want to do this video next.
You should have began the video with a sigh.
Yes. Oh, not a video.
It's not easy being morally virtuous.
I should begin the next delve that way with a sigh.
I didn't want to make this video.
Even though this guy didn't say it, it's inspired.
He's probably like, I got 20 bucks to throw around.
I'm a high roller.
Oh, I guess I guess he's from these.
I guess he uses he's from Israel.
So he uses shekels.
He doesn't use dollars.
So it's like 35 shekels, shekels.
No, shekels.
Because I'm all about that legal life.
And you know what?
I think you're I mean, I think that was supposed to be a joke.
So good. Yeah, it made us laugh.
It's bad.
His comedic tone is on point.
Maybe you should have saved that money and spent it on acting lessons.
It rags.
Everyone can act.
OK, it's subjective.
Well, maybe that's true.
Maybe he's acting like an incompetent line delivery man.
They go. This is the end goal.
The back story that explains this delivery about deep lore, deep lore life.
And you know what?
I was thoroughly impressed.
He's got it on the screen.
Thoroughly impressed.
Imagine first off, it's like two jokes in one because one, it's on the screen
and two, he imagined being thoroughly impressed by Captain Marvel.
So it's like like double joke power.
Oh, I find it. I was thoroughly impressed because people when they watch get out,
they're like, come on, nobody puts random words on the screen for no reason.
They totally do.
I was impressed.
I don't know about thoroughly, but I was impressed.
Oh, he's already backtracking.
You put it on the screen and everything might not even be true.
He's already moved the goalposts.
How how a disappointment eating.
I was I was.
I don't know. How does Captain Marvel aim her arm blasts?
OK, so put your arm in front of you and then close one eye and you can sort of
you can aim. You can you can eyeball it a little bit.
Like you could sort of use your knuckle as like a front sight post.
But how do you line it up?
Well, it's funny you say that as well, because I bet has the
the navigation tracking systems and stuff that they actually make a point
to damage in the movies, you know, to to make it so we can eyeball it.
Yes, we have to eyeball it.
I was going to say, but the Captain Marvel is just constantly eyeballing it.
Yeah, you just can't miss. She can't miss.
She always hits everything.
In fact, there's a moment I think early on where she's like she uses it
and falls backwards or something like, whoa, having to do with her aim.
But yeah, I'm just saying she's she's not got good control of it fully at first.
You know, she's not one hundred and ten percent.
He has it extended to Godhood quite at the beginning of the movie.
It's a good point.
Yeah, cheap boxes and other people's property.
Yeah. You know, once you steal a few bikes, you essentially become a godlike.
I think that's the message of the movie.
Do you guys it was that it?
Don't miss it. That was it.
Yeah, that was the theme. Yeah.
No, not thoroughly, but I was impressed.
Whether it was the actual filmmaking, the acting, the special effects.
I thought Captain Marvel was a lot better than I was led to believe.
But before we get to my perspective of the film, I want to take a look
at some of the criticisms that other people like myself.
White dudes. Oh, oh, white dudes.
Imagine, imagine if this was a film about, oh, I
oh, black people had thoughts about this movie.
Imagine, imagine this race.
I know it's so fucking racist.
But hey, when it's white men, you can fucking say anything you want about.
You like unironically and virtuously walk up to them and go,
what does the blacks think about this?
What? I wanted to point out some of the criticisms made by the Negro.
You can't go around saying stuff like that, but when it's white people, fuck it.
May, we all think the same way.
All of us came to the same conclusion.
Oh, wait, Fringy, even green people joined the white people team.
I'm afraid. Sorry.
I like how I like how Fringy is already lighting up like a bong or something.
I'm not a baby.
Oh, I like how Smiler, I'm sorry, Fringy is because you're green.
Well, I thought Smiler was he's already dipping into the herb.
You got it for stuff like this.
This is your this is our thumbnail, by the way.
Yeah, I keep it on the download though, man.
Have had online on YouTube and whatnot.
You know, I really do need to specify this because YouTube is, you know,
is a bit of fucking chaos.
I want to say that if you don't like this movie,
I don't think you're a sexist.
So I want to point out some mixed messages here.
I believe it was said by one of the one of the Wokemans on YouTube.
I can't remember which review is specifically, but they said,
if anyone begins the video of Captain Marvel saying, hey, I'm not a sexist,
but this movie is pretty bad, then they're probably a sexist.
The reason they put it up there is to make it so that, you know,
they try and avoid that criticism.
So does this apply to you guys when you say if you don't like this movie,
you're not a sexist? Like, no, they think you are.
Maybe that's double reverse for the chess projection.
I guess I can't believe we have to specify this.
Yeah, could you imagine like, hey, so if you don't like a movie
where the main character is male and white, you know,
I don't think you're a racist if you hate this movie
just because there's a white guy in it.
Yeah, it's weird.
You never think it's because it's because there are a lot of people
like, OK, so if we put all the races and stuff and we put we put them in a line,
whites like default in an RPG selector and then you've got all the other ones.
Like that's that's almost like, oh, we've got white people
and then people of color.
It's like, you mean the rest of the world.
That's a lot of people.
It's just a very.
I hate the term people of color, by the way.
I don't see how it's any better than colored people.
Like, listen, listen, you first off, you're a race traitor.
Second off, the the white now I underneath all the fluff.
I'm pretty pink.
So I consider myself a white man.
Right. Just just for for for census and tax purposes.
I'm a white man who knows what's going on.
The money might or not even white or we're all we're asshole colored.
And let's be fair, if we're going by PFPs alone, Alex is a straight up black dude.
Oh, he's a great man.
We go in charcoal at this point with that that face.
So, you know, I think he has the right to be offended by.
It's not black, please.
He looks high.
He looks deranged, I think.
But, you know, anyway.
I don't think you hate women.
I don't think you're a misogynist.
I want it. What charity?
So glad this guy doesn't think that we're misogynists.
Yeah, I care.
I really care what he thinks.
And I'm glad he's being so charitable to the rest of us.
He's so magnanimous.
I love this guy. He's great.
Believe that if you don't like this movie, that's OK.
That's fine.
It's like a personal attack or something.
If you're going to search the word Brie, followed by Larson, not even like Brie,
followed by last.
I think Jay, Jay cornered the market on this.
He he Brie followed by Larison.
Was it cheese theft?
I believe Jay referred to her as the it's a very clever pun.
It must be appreciated.
Like Brie Larson, ugly or Brie Larson, annoying or Brie Larson, bad.
You get bombarded with fucking video after video about how Brie Larson.
Yeah, it's like she's a shitty person who annoys people all the time.
That one literally says in defense of Brie Larson.
Three hundred seven views after four days.
Feminazi SJW man hater.
Oh, God, three point three million.
Look at that three point three million for the video that says five common habits
to make people instantly dislike you.
It's just an arrow.
I've seen that video and they actually they they they use their arguments
in favor of defending her oddly enough.
Oh, yeah, they click by everyone.
So I clicked on it for that reason.
But you know what?
Yeah, there is there is a lot of coverage of her being an asshole,
but it's probably because there's there's videos of her being an asshole.
I don't know. This seems like yeah.
This is a chicken and the egg sort of situation.
Yeah, she hates white men and how that's hypocritical
because she's married to a white man and all that was not your husband could stay under.
Yeah, they got divorced.
A good sign.
She literally said this in movies that aren't made for white people.
It was very awkward.
It's also very racist.
Yeah, it is, you know, but, you know, they don't see that way.
So, OK, yeah, she's fine.
She's great. I think she said it's great.
It's kind of ridiculous, to be honest with you.
Normally, I don't like to generalize because I don't believe in that.
But I've seen like three of these videos.
Oh, great.
There's a thousand of them.
I don't like to generalize, but I've seen three.
What the fuck?
I've seen a black person once.
Nice one. I saw, I saw three.
I need to hear that again, a case we've fucking misunderstood
because that's hilarious to a white man and all that bullshit.
And it's it's kind of ridiculous, to be honest with you.
Normally, I don't like to generalize because I don't believe in that.
But I've seen like three of these videos.
You did twenty three minutes of research by watching.
I was going to say, what does he what does he say after that?
I should hear it quickly on my end.
Three of these videos.
And I think I get the gist of all of them.
Basically. Yeah.
So you watch three and you get the gist of all of them.
OK. Hang on.
Just a flick back. Yeah, it's awesome.
I know it's important on the with the videos and Marvel 250.
There you go. Yeah.
So you watched the the quarter ends.
Uh, bands.
I don't know. The second one is bandic incorporated.
Yeah. Yeah.
And or or or or band did in incorporated.
I don't tell me that was that.
Don't tell me the third video was the third video that he's generalizing with.
It's a one minute, 15 and it's OK.
People saw it.
Well, shall we look at the stunts?
Did he just screen grab anyone just as like just to chuck it in and not realize?
So I don't know.
Who knows? Yeah, yeah.
Less than half an hour's content.
It is like, oh, yeah.
He knows what the internet's opinion is on it.
I know he I know there's a lot of coverage on pre-loss and being an asshole.
I know that's true.
But to watch three of them, they don't even seem to have that one topic.
And one of them is one minute.
It's a minute long.
I was versus Jackie Chan.
What the fuck's that to do with it?
You watched a commercial.
Yeah, you just look.
Yeah, that's probably one of those videos that's like Brie Larson exposed again
over saying that you subscribe next time to cover more abuse footage.
See, support us on Patreon dot com.
Anyway, I'm with this guy to generalize because I don't believe in that.
But apparently you do believe in it, though.
You do.
You don't think you do, but you really do, actually.
Why not just lie and say you've watched 10?
Why not just lie?
Just say, why about 10?
And then don't show any.
Don't even give it a number.
Just say I watched a few.
Yeah, because I mean, can I even trust that he wants these three?
Well, look at look at the red bar.
Look at the red bar.
Look at the screen grab.
The red bar. The red bar is wonky.
Don't don't trust the red.
You don't. You know, you can't trust it completely.
But the red bar is still interesting to say that if you can't trust it completely,
you can't trust it.
Well, we can't trust that.
This is the only three that he watched.
I know, but the red bar is also untrustworthy.
Yeah, I'm saying that we can't really make any conclusions.
And I know what he said.
Maybe he was just trying to look cool by going, you know, I don't really care.
I only want a few.
Yeah, I don't think we should trust him because he's a white dude.
Oh, yes.
But it would be better if like the third video you had a half way through
while you got like into 30 seconds into it and you thought it would be funny
if these were his three videos, he had only watched one of them for like a minute.
That was the actual opinion now.
Well, I think the real crime here is that he's apparently on YouTube in not dark mode.
Yeah, that's another.
That's how you know that this man's a false man.
You wouldn't you wouldn't be doing these things.
You know, he is fake.
I'm a real man.
I'm kind of robot videos.
And two of these videos are bad.
They're long yet.
Basically, we lost.
Yeah. So like I believe that was a lie.
Yeah, that was the right me if I'm wrong.
But the story with that was that she said I do my own stunts
and then everyone saw pictures of fist on double.
So they were like, clearly, you don't.
But is there anything else to that or is that the whole story?
I think they had pictures of her.
They had pictures of her like on set doing, quote unquote, stunts.
Like hanging from where everyone knows.
Well, the insurance companies don't let them do their own stunts.
Yeah. And it would be fine for her to say for insurance purposes,
they wouldn't let me do my own stunts.
I would have liked to do my own stunts.
Next time I do a movie, I'm going to try and see if I can do my own.
She should have said was I did some of my stunts.
I just like the end.
But props to my awesome stunt double such and such.
You did a great job and deserves a lot of credit.
And we should give a lot of, you know, notoriety to stunt doubles
who potentially put themselves in harm way, harm's way for other people.
Can you imagine what they think?
Another fucking actor saying that they're doing a job.
Michael Nowacki in chat said that she was talking about the stunts
for Endgame, not for a solo movie.
What were her stunts?
Endgame, she just stood there.
Well, this is the thing I was going to ask that question about Captain Marvel.
What are we going to ask?
She gets punched by Thanos.
She's headbutted by Thanos.
Can you imagine if if Henry Cavill was like, I did all my stunts for Superman.
Oh, you mean those times when you hang around?
Yeah, this is the thing, this is punching buildings.
There's a chance that she meant to say some other thing,
but it just didn't look fucking good for sure.
Because it's because of the stupid thing where she said,
I'm going to I'm not the next Tom Cruise.
I'm the next B is like, wow, OK.
Like it was just joking.
And there's a thing like
you could you could have taken the route of being like, you know,
Tom Cruise is great.
But, yeah, I'm actually I want to see if I can get around to doing that myself
because I'd like to be able to do my blah blah.
But no, she's like, I'm going to be next video.
It's like, OK, OK.
I should be able to achieve that goal being the next you.
And you know, anybody can do it quite like you do anyway.
Do what else we got going.
Believe in that.
But I've seen like three of these videos
and I think I get the gist of all of them.
Basically, I don't know.
I'm buffering right now because she doesn't hold up.
I'm still stuck at 238 and his goofy ass grin.
I'll run to 49 now.
I will. Oh, well, OK.
Well, how was it? It was awful.
Oh, I'm at 249 now.
I still missed those 11 seconds.
Do you want to see them again, Ranks?
Do you want to see what you missed?
I saw so good.
I don't want to I don't want to generalize, but
I didn't see 11 seconds because she doesn't smile
or she doesn't show emotion or she doesn't have a character.
Is it harsh to say she was very limited in her performance of Captain Marvel?
I don't know. I don't think so.
Yeah, that was that was a very
what's a nice way to say it.
Her performance was neutrally stoic and like flat.
Maybe I would have thought it was better if not for the fact
that I've seen her act better.
Flat like her ass in my right, guys.
Oh, just because you can act in one in one movie
doesn't mean you can do every role it's offered.
Yeah, that's that's kind of my point, though, is that I've seen
a charisma done amazingly or at least done great.
So seeing this in the movie, I was just like, yeah, she's she's she's saying lines.
You nailed it. And after seeing Unicorn Store, we have a precedent.
We have we have we have a pattern developing. Yes.
But yeah, you know, I enjoyed that.
Whether or not someone is acting well is an interesting topic.
It's just that, yes, a lot of people came away from her performance very bored.
Ark and, you know, it's also because because she's a look.
I'm sure there's reasons why.
Oh, let's give that another look.
Let's just go again.
I will or she doesn't.
Snack that in.
All right. We got to get this whole sentence, I guess.
Yeah, we got to make sure.
And I think I get the gist of all of them.
Basically, Brie Larson is a bad actress or a bad Captain Marvel
because she doesn't smile or she doesn't show emotion
or she doesn't have a character arc.
And, you know, it's also because because she's a look, I'm sure.
OK, so earlier on in this video, you said if you don't like this movie,
you're that doesn't mean you're sexist.
And here we are like 12 seconds later being like implying that, yeah,
if you didn't think your character was good as Captain Marvel, you're sexist.
I guess like pick one man.
I guess I guess he should have said at the beginning,
it also doesn't mean you're not a sexist.
Is it? Yeah, it's like don't be so non commit.
I was like, if you're going to be a wrong asshole,
at least show a little bit of conviction and stick to it.
And this is the problem. It's too.
So that's like that would be a red flag for me watching this video.
I'd be like, oh, this isn't going to be very genuine.
That's what that's the non insult.
Really? That's kind of it's like borderline non insult
because he starts it and he cuts it off like it's like, oh, it's a joke.
He's like, no, it's not.
There's no faster way to lose my attention than telling me
I don't like something because I'm bigoted.
I'm like, OK, that was a great argument.
I kind of want to go.
That's not even an argument.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
It's very sarcastic.
I just yeah, whatever. Let's kick on.
All these reasons why people don't like this movie.
And I'm sure there's genuine reasons why people don't like this movie.
Yeah. And that's obviously fine.
I'm sorry. There are reasons and genuine reasons.
The reasons for genuine reasons.
But also because she's a woman. OK.
Well, all right.
Yeah, you're generally made up reasons is good.
I'm going to write this one down.
So talk amongst yourself.
I'm freaking down for it.
I mean, I've already got one, two, three, four or five.
I write the seventh quote now.
So and didn't you say earlier he doesn't like to generalize?
He does, I think, because I think that he was
I think he was I think he was.
I think he was telling the lie.
I think he really does like to generalize because he fuck.
Well, the thing is, is when people say that immediately, it's like red for me.
When someone says, you know, I don't do this bad thing.
It's like, why did you say that?
Then why do you even need to tell me that?
I'm going to I love to generalize.
I'm going to I'm going to my favorite things to do.
I'm going to morph his comment.
And this is how it will be delivered in April 1st, 2020.
But I'm going to say there are reasons to dislike this.
There are also genuine reasons.
Some people hate women, but they move on.
He was sexist or a monster because you gave Captain
Two out of five.
You did, though.
You just you can't do both.
You're doing both of the things.
I'm sorry, Mr.
What did he say?
He said that he's not going to like call you a sexist for disliking the movie.
And it's like, but you did, though.
Yeah, and he's about to because the part I've seen of this
is where he calls me a sexist.
Oh, she's fine.
I'm not going to call you a sexist or a monster because you gave Captain Marvel
a two out of five.
I couldn't do two out of five.
That's overrated as fuck.
Two out of five is because her face was dull.
And this isn't a sexist comment.
Her face was in this flat.
It's not because she's a woman's because her face was expressionless.
Don't you think that the two stars out of five is sexist, though, Rags?
Just the star rate, you know, sexist.
Don't you think that the the way that this person uses words is sexist?
Look at the font.
That's pretty sexist.
Three, one, eight, DK, Dick King, Dick.
900,000, three, fuck lots of inches.
Big Dick.
Look at his profile picture.
That's pretty sexist.
Yeah, that's like.
Yeah, that's like.
That's like a nipple.
This is disgusting.
You need to stop this.
Dick King, nine, three, one, eight.
Coral, Cornell.
Fuck this year.
But a lot of the reviews, especially the ones here on YouTube.
Why does your camera out of focus?
They tend to be.
Well, it's got him in focus in the background, so it's all right.
Well, no, it is not really because it shifts a little bit.
Oh, well, yeah, because if you're going to stay the same distance
away from the camera, they don't have an autofocus.
So if you move your hand or something, it unfocuses your face as a refocus.
Especially the ones here on YouTube.
They tend to be a little sexist.
Like there's this one video that just goes.
Oh, no, I think we know this man.
He has to be stressed.
You're a sexism.
Yeah, I'm a little, you know, you said it.
I'm a little sexist.
Yeah, that's one of my arguments of those.
You're a sex man.
One out of the fucking 200 arguments I made was a sexism, I think.
Let's let's just hear it on an excruciatingly boring detail.
How she is a horrible character and how she's a boring lead.
Yeah, yeah, those are.
Yeah, he presents a massive list of arguments.
What does it tell you when someone can talk for literally hours?
I'll see the film is great.
Arville, Long Bad Bads are in chat, right?
So this video has got one point seven million views and
sixty two thousand up, three point eight thousand down.
Pretty fucking good.
Yeah, I was really happy with that video.
It took a fucking ages to make.
Well, yeah, because it's it's it's one it's one point seven million views.
So that's way bigger than your normal audience.
So you're reaching out into people who don't know anything about you or your
channel, just general that you'll reach out to the general audience at that point.
And people are like all down for it.
And how long did we fucking talk about Captain Marvel for me?
Like, oh, that was like, yeah, because every time it's like, hey, so what about this?
What about this thing that ruins the entire movie again?
It's you know, it's mind numbing.
The person in this video uses the scene in Captain Marvel in which Carol.
Did you just say his name?
Like, why are you just saying all are you the person in this video?
Fucking cow, bag it.
Say his name, say his name, say my name.
Basically outside a shop and some dude on a bike tells her to smile more.
And then when the dude goes inside the shop to presumably harass some more women,
telling a woman to smile is harass.
Now, that is literally like by definition, it's literally not harassment because harassment.
I'm just like, seriously, like it's telling someone to smile.
That's harassment.
If he said it a second time, then sure, maybe, but like, it's literally not.
And they wonder why a lot of men walk around on eggshells with women these days.
They don't tell her to smile.
That's harassment.
There was a conversation in a thread about this.
It's like, is it is there no time where you can like even say that nicely?
Like, you can go like, oh, you know, you look gorgeous when you smile.
You know, someone something like that.
You'd be like, oh, harassment.
Or just like, why are you down today?
That makes me unhappy to see you turn that ground upside down.
Remember, remember that there's nothing more sexist than feeling kind of unhappy
when you see someone else unhappy.
That's that's bad.
And you should stop.
Plus, he's completely making the thing about him going in.
I get around it.
I tell my girlfriend to stop pouting.
That's probably harassment, too, though.
Well, this is the thing you see.
Well, I think it's the top comment on my video.
It had like a ridiculous 17K upvote.
So you can find it.
It says, I said hello to Brie Larson the other day.
My court date is next week.
And in this this clip looks even worse when you consider the scene.
They all know.
Let's listen to his review of the clip as it stands.
It's pretty cool.
Protrays her as a bad role model for little girls.
Like, this fucking guy really cares what little girls think to be.
Yeah, I do, actually.
Yeah, Brie Larson steals his property.
Funnily enough, he told her to smile.
Got two sisters with with kids now who are ages four and five.
So I actually care if they'll try to look if they look up to Captain Marvel,
I'd be like, ooh, don't steal stuff from people and don't beat people.
I also like like what if what if it turned out that you had a daughter
as just like like you give a shit what your daughter thinks.
Why does Sargon care about young men?
Oh, look, Jay said you should show you should show the full vision of the scene
where she torches the dude.
We actually watched it at the beginning of the stream.
So if anyone wants to go back, you'll see us covering it.
It's much worse.
It's bad.
Like, she's like an outright fucking villain.
She is so weird as well because you'd think they knew that when doing it
because he's like, hey, smile.
And then she goes, how about a handshake?
And he goes, okay.
And then she electrocutes him and forces him to give up his vehicle,
his clothing under the threat of losing an arm.
I will physically name you permanently if you don't give me your clothes and your property.
Also, I'm torturing you right now.
She said this is what I mean.
It's like it's always like, is it good to look up to Iron Man?
And if you look at all of his films, I'd be like, he's a flawed guy.
And there's a lot of scenes where maybe he does some things
that you probably wouldn't want kids to think is the best way to go.
But it's at least a realistic portrayal of someone who makes decisions based on like
their perspective being that it's the right thing to do.
Or sometimes they can be reckless with Captain Marvel.
It's like portrayed as the correct thing.
What she's doing is like,
just rubbing people in the street.
What's worse about that scene too, is the guy offers to help her.
Like imagine in a school with these like six year olds,
what effort a boy is like, you have a cute smile.
And the girl punches him.
You piece of shit.
She takes, she takes his jacket off.
I think I spit on the border while he walks past in shame.
It's just an adult's like, you piece of shit.
What a legend.
Yeah, yeah, no, I don't care about that at all.
Rives off.
According to the person that made this video,
that's not an appropriate thing to do.
Yes, it's not appropriate to steal people's properties.
So it's not appropriate at all.
Someone annoyed me the other day.
I said it's house on fire.
Apparently, that's not an appropriate thing to do.
No, it isn't.
You know, it's super appropriate to just steal things from people who annoy you.
Yeah, just steal their property, steal their bicycle,
steal their mode of transportation.
For all that she knows, he might like run a number.
Yeah.
It's an equally moral argument to respond to somebody with a unwanted comment by
threatening the name that would steal everything.
I was about to write down the quote for this.
And I was like, response to an insult.
And I was like, what's not real insult, light insult?
And I was like, what's not even a light?
It's a request to smile.
What even is that?
He's flirting.
He's lightly flirting with her.
If someone flirted with me like that, I'd be like, hey, you know, that's like a compliment.
Oh, sorry.
I put on not appropriate responses.
They are appropriate responses.
Remember, people, violence and theft all the way.
Do it.
Don't do them.
Oh, no, no, no, don't do them.
Chat's chat's pointing out that he's all about that legal life.
But it's totally okay if she steals his motorcycle.
Do you think he's unaware that it's illegal to electrocute people who say hello to you?
Well, maybe where he's from, that's just like a thing that you do.
Like if people talk to you on the street and you don't approve of it,
then you are fully licensed to torture them.
You know, they're proper.
You bring out like the fucking the rack or something from like medieval times.
Come on, mate.
Jump on.
It's about time.
How dare you speak to me.
Hashtag time's up.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
I like this guy.
He's such a ledge.
Carol steals his bike and drives off.
According to the person that made this video, that's not an appropriate thing to-
You even said steal.
You said the word steal.
You, it came out of your mouth.
You said steal.
I'm surprised he said that I think it's not appropriate as if he disagrees with that
and doesn't qualify it.
It's like, do you disagree with that?
Role model for the most recon-
This does recontextualize the Jewish remarks I made earlier.
To be honest, I don't really understand that one because Carol Danvers, as a character,
she wouldn't straight up hurt that person because-
She did it!
Yeah, she literally did it!
She wouldn't do it.
They really wouldn't do that.
Come on, guys.
So, for clarification for chat, this was released before the new clip came out.
He did not know that they were going to fuck his video up by releasing that video.
This is age like milk.
Age like milk.
Oh, dear.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
You must be so upset.
Oh, man.
Let's hear it in full in case he says something else.
Thank you.
To be honest, I don't really understand that one because Carol Danvers-
She's not a character.
She wouldn't straight up hurt that person because I don't think that-
She doesn't have a moral compass.
A moral compass?
But that guy was being-
Oh, now it's property.
Keeping in mind in this movie that she's gone,
like her former friends.
No, they were all evil.
Even let's let's give let's stretch the definition of being a huge jerk to telling a woman to smile
one time that still doesn't give you license to steal their property.
Just in case Chad didn't hear that because it pulls just right after, but he just said
in fairness, the guy was being a huge jerk as if that makes it okay to steal his vehicle.
Like that totally justifies it.
That totally justifies it.
And really, like, is that the worst way these ever-
You know, like, for me, the threshold for a huge jerk would be like overtly negative.
Yeah.
Like, I'll fuck you for any piece of shit.
It's like, yeah, fuck you, mate.
The other day, my neighbor was playing music a little bit too loud and I could hear it through
the wall.
So after they left for work the next day, I broke into their house and I stole their shit.
And I'm completely justified.
He's being a huge jerk.
He's being a huge jerk.
I don't see why you're a huge jerk.
I have any kind of-
So enjoy your not TV.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
Like, this is sad.
I don't think that's her moral compass.
But that guy was being a major jerk to her.
So I don't think it's out of the character to steal his bike and then ride off.
Like, this is-
Is that a character to steal?
What the fuck?
It's out of character to do the things that she literally does in the film.
But he just said, like, it makes sense that she would do that.
It's like, that's our point.
It's bad that it makes sense that she would do that.
Oh, man.
This is like a parody video.
You know what?
You know what?
This is the kind of thing someone a parody video would say.
So this will be a little bit of a tangent, but this is just reminding me of something.
Have you guys heard of the Thermian argument?
No.
No.
So it's getting brought up a lot by-
I call them bread tube because everyone's apparently calling them bread tube.
It's the selection of Dan Olson, Lindsay Ellis,
H. Balmer Guy, Sean, and a couple of others.
Oh, dum-dums.
So the Thermian argument is something I've been accused of as well.
A lot of people apparently make it, it's a bad thing to do.
So if I said to Rags, I don't like Captain Marvel
because her actions can lead to children in real life
doing this, thinking that it's a good thing.
And then you say back to me, it makes sense that she did it
because she's a Kree warrior and they're brutal.
You've justified it in the source while I'm criticizing the effect it can have.
So you created, that's what's called a Thermian argument.
You've essentially not counted.
You've not counted-
No, I mean, is that like, I don't-
is it media's responsibility to tell people-
Well, so this is the thing.
I'm not sure which part of this I want you specifically to respond to,
but there's a couple of layers.
So with Daenerys in Game of Thrones, right?
Lindsay Ellis said that it's bad because John killing Daenerys
allows so much more like domestic abusers to go on thinking,
you know what, I'm just like John Snow killing Daenerys.
They forced me to do this.
I'm killing, I'm hitting them because-
Well, Lindsay Ellis is a fucking retard.
I said that in a tweet.
Well, I didn't say that, but I said that this interpretation is retarded
to the point of like, I referenced Ollie in season six.
It's a kid that John Snow is like a mentor to
and a father figure to for a few seasons.
And then when John Snow lets the Wildlings into the North,
the Night's Watch betray slash execute him for betraying the Night's Watch.
And Ollie's one of the kids, one of the people who's involved.
And he's like, I want to say like a nine-year-old at that point, not sure.
When John gets resurrected, spoilers,
he executes all the people who betrayed him,
or at least the biggest people in Ollie's one of them.
He literally hangs a kid.
It's a bit brutal, but that's what happens.
And so I said, you see, this is bad because it's going to tell fathers
everywhere that they can abuse their kids because it's the right thing to do
because, you know, they forced them to.
They betrayed them.
You know, that's how that works.
Well, imagine getting through eight seasons of Game of Thrones.
And in the last episode, a chick gets stabbed and you're like,
well, well, well, this is this could be a bad influence to the people.
Daenerys was being a big chick, so it's justified.
I see the same thing about South Park, especially lately, like,
oh, a generation of young boys, like, saw Cartman as a figure to sort of replicate.
And it's like, you know, that Cartman's like, he's the villain of the show.
So this is the thing.
I was accused of using a thermean argument against Lindsay because I was saying it makes
my my counter was that Daenerys, if anything, is the abuser in the relationship.
And John killing it was something he was 100 percent against.
He did it because he was convinced that it was going to save the universe, basically.
And he was he regretted it like immediately, too.
And then he goes to prison.
So, you know, there's plenty to argue that this is not in any way
like the relationship an abuser would have for their wife spouse.
And so they were like, you missed the point more than she's saying that
it's a bad influence, whether or not that is inaccurate.
And I was like, no, you missed my point.
I'm saying her interpretation is wild.
It would be like me.
It was insane.
Yeah. And then if they were like, no, they started doing the whole like every
you really think there's only one correct interpretation.
I was like, no, no, no, no.
It's like like that.
There's a sane person's interpretation.
And then there's you.
Like if I said Shrek was pro Trump, they'd be like, how that I go wants to build a wall.
Yeah, he wants to build a wall around his swamp.
And they knew the writing and directing team knew that Trump was going to run eventually.
That was going to be his platform.
But that's what Shrek was for.
It was to get us on on board with Trump early on is to get to the kids.
Gaslight in white nationalist.
And see, I would be like, you're insane.
That is an insane interpretation.
And it's almost like all interpretations of valid, all interpretations of valid.
It was his swamp.
Draining the swamp.
You could probably make this argument.
But yeah, so that was my point is that you and the problems with Game of Thrones, man,
like the writing is horrendous.
And then you have people being like, you know what the real problem is?
It's encouraging men to beat women.
It's like what adults who get their moral values from Game of Thrones.
That's the real problem.
Yeah.
So so what's funny is he's just made the theory and argument quote unquote to us.
We're saying it's bad that she does these things.
And it's a really bad influence.
And he's saying, yeah, but you know, the guy in universe was being kind of an asshole.
It's like that doesn't change anything about our criticism really at all.
Also, that's just an extra bad argument you've given us.
Yeah.
So which is which was actually funnier than the first.
I mean, this video has been pretty funny.
So I don't think it's out of character to steal his bike.
And then right off was a lot better character.
Her way of saying, look, superhero, I'm not going to drop to his level and be an asshole to him.
I'm not going to drop to his level.
I'm going to resort to I'm not going to stoop to his level.
Well, yeah, Captain Marvel's not stooping to his level.
She's going way below his level by committing a felony.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She could be.
Yeah.
She could be arrested in universe.
I'm not dropping his level.
I'm dropping way lower.
Way lower.
I'll show him.
Can you imagine the bike you do telling his friends later on what happened?
And he's like, you sure that's all you said?
And she took your motorbike and threatened to rip your hand off.
He's like, fucking just said hello to her.
Like I just said smile.
Like she was like, don't forget.
Also, it due to this is set in the 90s.
No fucking the Wacko times of 2019 where you can't say shit anymore.
Yeah.
You think that 90s women would actually be like, oh, that's potentially this man saying I'm
attractive, which is friendly.
But no, you can't do that anymore because it's offensive.
I don't think people like this guy understand how like dating works and approaching people
works.
Well, this is what you were just saying about like how no one to men are getting put off by
like doing standard courtship sort of things.
It's like, oh, I might go to jail.
Oh, it's insane.
But me, oh, story time, I had a new CVS opened up down the street and I went in one day to
check it out.
And there was a gal behind the counter, a young gal behind the counter.
And when I went out, went up to do my check out, she says, oh, I'm so jealous of guys who
have better looking hair than I do.
And so I punched her and I stole her body.
Because you didn't want to go down to her level.
Yeah, I wouldn't hurt to go.
I wanted her to go down a level physically to the floor.
I stole her shit.
And in fitness, in the thread, talking about this scene that came out, the new one, there
was people being like, you do realize women face this every day.
Like, I was like, face what?
They were like, this is a real problem.
Women constantly get berated by men.
It's like, what do you this is?
How do you this, like, you see it's like they this is like the most pandering content ever
because there's actually people out there who see what happened here.
This exchange is being completely justified.
That's not good.
You know, you know, 95 percent of women prefer that the man makes the first move
to start dating or start unless it's a it's less a low move.
It'll be a high move ring.
You remember people defended that Gillette ad where the guy stops the other guy just for
going.
Yeah.
To go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Girls walking down the street.
I didn't get the makeup on.
Hair did.
I wonder nicely.
I wonder how many women out there would be like,
man, I would actually want guys to maybe talk to me.
That dude was handsome, too.
That was a good looking guy.
He's a good looking guy.
Yeah.
And then he got stopped by.
So you can't just you can't just talk to women in public, dude.
What's wrong with you?
Thanks, Devontae.
The best of man.
Talk to someone.
You saved her.
You saved her from my meanness.
Meanness.
They could have got loaded.
You had six kids, a wonderful life together.
But no, but no.
Devontae.
His bike and then right off with it, because that's just her way of saying,
look, fuck this guy.
I'm not going to do all right.
So when Hitler committed the Holocaust, that was just his way of saying,
I wish you guys, you know, would tone down on the Jewish stuff.
Did he just say at the end?
Yeah.
It was her way of saying she was smarter.
I'll just play it and make sure that her way of saying, fuck this guy.
I'm not going to drop to his level and be an asshole to him.
Smarter than him.
I'm just going to be smarter than him.
I'm going to be smarter than a person and take their prophecy.
Wow.
Just wow.
If you're stronger than someone that's being smarter,
like she just has this power.
So that makes her smarter.
She can lead up to the weaker person.
Like, how do you ironically see all this stuff?
If anything, it's incredibly stupid to steal people's property like that
because that's illegal and the cops will eventually find the bike and track it out.
You know, another thing worthwhile to note as well is Superman.
You remember like man of steel when that guy is kind of being a dick to Superman in the bar
and he just like just completely destroys his truck and nobody really was a fan of that.
And everybody's like, yeah, Superman wouldn't do that.
Superman would just destroy your property because you were mean to him.
Like it's not, it's not a, this is just normal human like behavior.
This guy is man.
In this guy's world.
Talk about like, you know, because we can have fun here.
I'm like, Jesus Christ.
Do you know, do you know, like your ideas are not going to lead to bad places?
Like, what a person did this in real life?
Like would he defend it if Brie Larson committed Grand Theft Auto?
In real life.
Would he defend it if a man was the person being asked?
Yeah.
What if a woman went up to a man and said, hey, you're handsome, you know?
Which again, like, is that even harassment?
Of course not.
Yeah.
That's ridiculous.
Think they would make the power dynamics fucking argument,
even though the view is way more powerful than that guy.
But the thing is, as has already been established, harassment as like a legal concept.
It has to be repeated.
Like it literally cannot be once.
Even if you argue the principle of harassment, this isn't it.
No question.
Like, it's too vague.
I don't, I don't like.
Like if someone went up to God and said you should smile more.
Like what possible damage would that have in any way?
God's like, all right, so you're deleted.
Be smart and steal Bilbo the Hobbit burglar.
Be smart or steal.
Yeah, I'm glad that we've learned so much from this video.
We should really follow this guy's ideas.
He's smarter than him.
Why would we say that?
Why ever would we make that?
Why would anybody say that?
We don't have to.
We just watch your argument.
Well, before people accuse me of being a Captain Marvel,
woke warrior, whatever the fuck, people like to comment these days.
Okay, that's not what we're saying.
We haven't used the words yet, but I mean, you've ticked a few boxes.
Of all the stuff he could have talked about in your review,
why didn't he hone on the one vaguely political thing?
Why didn't you talk about the other stuff?
It's a hard to defend thing too.
Like of all the things, if I was tasked with you have to steel man captain a Marvel.
You have to really make a good case for it.
I would just like forget that scene exists.
Let's not go with that one.
No, fuck that scene.
Because that's a real trying to defend.
It would make your position to look worse.
Yeah, I would go for probably any other.
This is what I mean.
It's like iconically bad at this point.
Whatever the fuck people like to comment these days.
I just want to say that I don't think this movie is flawless.
I don't think it's a five out of five cinematic masterpiece.
I agree.
There are plenty of problems in this film, specifically the fucking music.
The music in this film is atrocious.
Is it?
I can't remember the music.
I can't remember it.
Yeah.
There's a fucking Devana song in this movie.
Like, is he sure?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
This fucking.
Come as you are.
But like, it's such a weird criticism.
I don't even remember thinking the soundtrack was awful.
I'm kind of like, I'm kind of tired of people just saying,
Oh, you know, like in Endgame, how there's that song when we can we talk spoilers for
like Endgame at this point.
Endgame spoilers.
You should have seen Endgame by now.
Well, remember, the directors have said the spoiler thing has been lifted even.
Okay.
All right.
Well, you know how, like, because the common because everybody keeps
signing that every frame of pause video where he says,
and I like every frame of pause, but I didn't like that one.
Was, you know, oh, the Marvel movies have forgettable music.
You know how, like, you said every frame of pause.
All right.
Every frame of painting.
I think this was getting heavy.
Yeah.
So you're actually about to like say something's wrong with E-Fam.
I was like, okay, go on.
Yeah.
Let's do this.
If you want it.
Let's do it.
All right, both of you.
But I can respect it.
I'm kind of like sick of people saying that the music in the bad, like,
there's a lot of good music in the model.
Endgame had several good tracks.
Like, I mean, I could just say what they are and then you look them up.
Like the port was one when they all showed up through the portals.
The portals one where they all showed up.
Yeah.
Tony Stark's funeral.
Tony Stark's funeral is a really cool one.
When he says like, can you hum anything from the MCU?
I'm like Avengers.
Anyone?
Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam.
Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam.
There you go.
Beautifully done.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, yeah.
I didn't want to, I just woke up.
I know he didn't like the music.
All right.
Fair enough.
Yeah, but I would love for him to qualify there because again, I like, I.
Either he won't or it'll be the thing where they go.
The music was kind of bland.
Kind of the same thing you get in a lot of them.
Yeah.
Because people are even saying it in the chat, right?
They're specifically citing the song that I'm talking about.
Street, who's composed a lot of good music.
Like, I don't know.
I don't know what to say when people keep saying, oh, it's forgettable.
It's like, I, it's not, I don't know what to tell you.
I haven't forgotten some of it.
So it's, it's not, I don't give a fuck.
All right.
Next.
Is good.
I think the score's fine, but the.
It's good.
It's fine.
Is it good or is it fine?
The tracks that play are pretty terrible.
Whoever came up with the idea to use that song, like I'm just a girl.
Oh, well, you know what?
I agree with him on that one.
That was a horrible choice.
I agree.
But what I think this means, I think that this guy is a misogynist.
Yeah, I think so too.
I mean, the, the, the, the name, the name of the song and the lead singer is female.
It's just a girl.
Does he hate women?
Does he hate girls?
Yeah, I don't get it.
It's a girl singing about girls.
If it was just a boy, you would have liked it.
He doesn't care about little girls at all.
No, this is a horrible man.
During that fight scene should be blacklisted and never hired again.
Ooh.
Wow.
All right.
Not even I go that far.
Hold on a second.
I haven't asked for any blacklisting.
Someone said I made a bad argument.
You're wrong.
All right.
Do I need to like just spend the next half hour explaining why the Avengers theme is good?
Like, is this, is this what it's going to come down to?
What are those, what are those things on his right arm, right hand?
That string.
I guess the, the diversity bands.
But the, because one, because one of them is gay and one of them is brown.
Yeah, he's a level three warlock.
Level three diverse a lock.
You can like, you can cast rainbow at level five, I think.
You can cast the gay suit.
The gay.
I just thought it was less manly hands than me.
Stupid.
Like it's so mind numbingly obvious.
Like what an obvious fucking music choice.
Yeah.
So is it, he got a boot like Chinese copy.
It's funny.
He got a point.
Well done, dude.
So is the music worse than grand theft auto?
Oh, I see what you mean.
Yeah.
Well, an abuse.
Can't forget to throw that.
The whole hatred for Brie Larson's interpretation of Captain Marvel
kind of reminds me of Henry Cavill's version of Superman.
In the sense that just because the character isn't smiling or quipping every five minutes,
it doesn't mean that.
Yeah, that's the reason.
Well, with Superman, we're talking like some real fun.
She's back that he's kind of an asshole and he gets a lot of innocent people killed.
What are you describing Captain Marvel?
No, no, Captain Marvel.
Just, well, I mean, she, if there were real life consequences to the thing she does,
yeah, there'd be insane amounts of dead people.
No, there is insane amounts of dead people.
She knocked out two giant starships in that film.
One of which, one of which was a definitively
positive, like good faction, you know, morally good faction.
As was established.
Yeah.
And the other one was a faction she belonged to yesterday.
But, you know, she's better than them.
Why does he have to address the shallowest arguments?
You know what I mean?
Like, oh, Superman, what's happening?
Because that's what video else is.
Yeah, that's what you gotta do.
Grand Theft Auto's fine, but some people thought too was bad because you didn't smile.
And those people can just get their fucking car stolen.
This argument is strange because he's actually saying you're right.
That's how she is.
But then you're just wrong.
Like, he's not arguing that we're getting a character wrong or acting wrong or facial
expressions.
He's just saying, yeah, she's like that.
She robs from people.
She'll threaten people.
She can't act.
But you're still wrong.
I thought it was interesting that he was like, she just because they're like stoic or
emotionless or have like a stronger attitude doesn't mean they're boring.
It's like, how can you define what boring is for a person?
Shut up, Mauler.
Tywin's boring.
No.
It just means they're going through a certain character arc.
Specifically for Danvers.
The arc of can she not be boring?
The answer was no.
About her rediscovering her humanity.
Rediscovering her.
Yeah, she doesn't even give a shit about her parents.
I was going to say, what humanity does she rediscover exactly?
She realizes that she got.
Super powers from an engine.
You don't even get the scene, you know, the one where you go, hey, you remember this?
And she's like, what is that?
It's like, this is the room you always used to play with.
And then she starts playing with it.
She's like, I don't get it.
She's like, you used to try and get one color on one side and she keeps playing with it.
And then we come back to a scene later and one side is done.
She keeps playing with it.
And she's just like, I remember this.
And then you just like, she's getting she's getting her groove back.
I also, you know, isn't that a little bit human supremacist?
You know, she's rediscovering her humanity.
Why isn't she like discovering her in a creed or in a community?
Or scroll manatee.
Well, it's just, you know, oh, the scrolls, you know, they're bad.
But when she figures out that she's a person, she becomes good.
It's like, that sounds a little bit.
Gonna put you on a watch list there.
You're a bit of a human supremacist guy to tell us what her character is.
Just just said it.
Just establish what what the character actually is.
So half a video.
So we might get there.
Yeah.
Maybe maybe maybe after telling us that all this stuff is maybe maybe after all of these.
Well, he's making all these arguments saying that the things that she does in the film
aren't in line with her character.
So I'm curious exactly what is her character then.
She discovers her humanity by robbing.
She discovers the humanity by robbing people and not giving a shit about her.
I've unironically seen the defense that she was unaware of the laws of man and that she
was too used to fighting people who were threatening to her.
So it makes sense that that's how she acted in that situation.
I was just like, either way, like, even if even if she was like, oh, I'm sorry,
that's not how you deal with people who tell you to smile.
Like, there's never a moment like that in the film where she's like, oh, you know,
I've been I've been addicted to the people of earth when they're not actually that bad at all.
She's like, no, there's no remorse.
She did the right thing.
Well, yeah, because it was a man.
Fucking men.
So I'm fucking sorry.
Just like the cream, smiling every five minutes.
Oh, she lacks any character.
She's fucking boring.
Yeah, she is.
You just say she likes any character.
She lacks.
Oh, okay.
She lacks any character, which is true.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
I don't know the word zoom in was for, but he's funny.
You know, he's great at that mustache.
I guess I wouldn't be with that as well, because in like the first 10 minutes,
we see a crack a joke.
You guys wouldn't happen to know how these things come off, would you?
No, fine.
Like, yeah, that's really funny.
That's hilarious.
That's her character meant to be.
That's a guys.
This is her character.
She made like a joke.
Your character, if you've cracked a joke, attempted to crack a joke.
Quote unquote.
Got him.
She said something that could be misconstrued as humorous.
That's a character.
The little like, I don't know what you call it, the nod of the head.
Like, no.
All right.
You're like, oh my God, you're really annoying.
It's one of these videos that you feel you could do a better job for him.
Like he's picking all the wrong clips to use.
Yeah.
It's like, no, no, no, let me help.
I'll redo your video and make your argument better because
like the motorhome scene of this, like don't go there.
You look at this scene and you think like, could you, if this was,
could you just imagine how different it would be even if it had all the same dialogue?
You know, a bunch of bad guys come up.
He's like, hey guys, how do I get this off?
You know, and then start shooting at him or something.
Like, you can make this joke work.
Yeah, no, I agree.
Because this is the thing, right?
If it, let's just, let's just be biased right now.
We all love Tony Stark because we're all toxic men.
So let's throw him in there and he's in his Iron Man suit.
He's just got it working for the first time.
All these aliens come up to him and he goes,
you guys wouldn't know how to get this off, would you?
And he looks around and he goes, no.
All right.
I'd be like, oh, that was.
Well, if he said it like that.
Yeah, that's my thing.
So it's like, hey guys, we got to fix the dialogue is my point is that it's not here.
It's the not only the delivery, but the fucking words.
It's like that.
So I think the most Tony Stark thing I could think of on my head,
if you if you were to keep the first line, the you guys would not get this off,
would you?
You probably look around and go, didn't think so or something like that.
There's also the lack of lines coming from the scroll here saying no, no, no, we're friends.
Exactly.
Could you imagine, you know, like you were surrendering.
You just see some red army soldiers there and you just keep putting the cops after them.
When you're meant to be surrendering, you're like, whoa, why are you shooting at us?
You need to calm down, Marvel lady.
Let me explain the situation so we can avoid a lot of trouble in the future.
Like you work hard to make arguments that are like tangible in a sense of
there's actual things to latch on to instead of just Bremen bad,
but they still interpret it that way.
They're like, hey, because she doesn't smile like this.
It's not really what we say.
Okay.
So obviously, she does have that humanity.
She's just being told.
Oh, it's she shouldn't show that humanity.
She shouldn't show that and they don't say you can't show it.
She doesn't know she's here.
What?
No, they don't even.
Yeah.
They tell her she's too emotional, but she keeps getting told that because she doesn't
not do what they like.
My point is that she's never been restricted in any way other than the stupid thing on
her neck that actually does fuck all turns out.
The Kree aren't like, you can't be human.
And she's like, can't be what?
Yeah, they laugh.
They get angry.
They're not an emotionless society.
It's actually very strange in the film where he's like, you stop it, control your emotions.
It's like why I'm literally winning every fight that I use my emotions in.
It's like, well, we don't like it.
But again, she jokes with Jude Law.
She shows care for Jude Law when when they're in like the phone calls and stuff and vice versa.
They subway.
This idea that her society is like, you can't have emotions.
And that explains her attitude.
It's like, no, you're making up a film that didn't happen.
Freedom and emotion.
Equilibrium.
Anyone seen that apart from Alex?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So like, yeah, I saw it.
It's good.
Well, the portrayal is much clearer in that film that it's an emotionless society.
And there was actually a movie details thing posted the other day that I saw on my phone
where do you remember when he goes for the emotions test and he fails it toward the climax
of the film and then he shoots everybody in the room?
He doesn't kill the the guy who did the test because the guy was afraid of him.
And so that means the guy was not doing his emotionless pills.
And that's why he doesn't kill him.
And I was like, Oh, I did a good point.
I always thought that he just didn't kill him.
He didn't have a weapon.
Yeah.
So for anyone who hasn't seen that, maybe he has no weapon, but he has emotions.
That is a that's like the double whammy for survival.
Yeah, you take both boxes.
But yeah, yeah, the point being equilibrium is I guess it's all about a society that
suppresses emotion.
But the fucking Captain Marvel Society, the Kree, they didn't have that at all.
Do you remember when the team was like cracking jokes against each other on the way to their
mission?
It's like, yeah, they really suppress emotions here.
It's totally like he's like, don't don't laugh.
Don't have levity.
That's just it's just a warrior thing.
Like when you're in the middle of a fight, you need to think clearly and don't get too
angry or emotional and do things that are don't make any sense or that aren't
different from how we do stuff here, you know.
Yeah, it's like the other the other enemy army made me mad.
So I'm just going to charge up there with a knife.
It's like, no, no, you got to keep your head, man.
I'll do it.
Don't don't do stupid things.
Because that's a threat to them.
No, not her emotions.
And she chooses not to and wins and then she chooses not to later and wins.
I'm sorry.
I was going to say, what is that?
I like what he says, literally the first seat of the movie.
It's like, oh, it reminds me of like, I don't know.
You have people talking about the time travel stuff in an endgame.
They're like the ancient one.
One for one says if you take a time stone out, it creates a new timeline.
That's the only way to do it.
And you're like, you know, she says that, but it doesn't make sense.
It doesn't you can't like she symbolize.
You see it visually.
It's like, yes, but that we stop.
That doesn't make sense.
Stop it.
It's like, yes, but that's how it goes.
Okay.
Magic.
In this movie, Danvers is trying to prove something to Yon Ragg, played by Jude Law.
Not really.
Oh, no.
Can anyone really say that?
Like, what were the scenes for that?
Yeah, what is she trying to prove?
That's something that and he said Yon Ragg as well, isn't it?
Yeah, his name is Yungldor.
I think he on wrong.
Yeah, I don't know.
Whatever.
Either way, is it?
Yeah, I just that's something they really if I was to rewrite the film,
that's when I really would have had more focus on.
I would have made their relationship much more like they actually liked each other.
And then over the course of the film, it gets broken sort of thing.
Instead of just they were acquaintances, maybe.
In this movie, Danvers is trying to prove something to you.
Oh, it's buffering.
Played by Jude Law.
Just let us know when it's not to something.
It's at six twenty eight.
Oh, I will drag it back to six twenty.
I should just figure you should be fine.
Control that.
It's not literally the first scene she wakes up, right?
It's the first scene is her waking up.
Yeah, Danvers is trying to prove something to Yon Ragg,
played by Jude Law and the Supreme.
People are saying young rags.
I'm an old man constantly wanting their approval.
And by the end of the movie, she's like, I don't need your.
I mean, she does what they say.
Those are words that she says at one point.
Yes, she says I don't have to prove anything to you, but I mean, there's no.
Yeah, it's like it's right in the beginning.
I think she's just like, I don't know.
Is she trying to she's just doing what she's told, I guess.
I don't think that.
Yeah, I don't think that comes into it.
There's no like line from Jude Lawries like you.
You'll never be able to blah, blah, blah.
If you can't blah, blah, blah.
You have to prove your blah, blah, blah.
You just they just fight.
And then he's like, control your fucking emotions.
Crazy person.
Then she's like, nah, and then beats him.
And then at the end, when she says I don't have anything to prove to you
that they almost they only think they came so close to having a character moment
and they decided not to.
You don't know when she drags him across the desert.
Yeah, when she just superpowers him into the into the canyon side
and then drags him back, you could have had a character moment,
but you're like, no, this was a giggle with one arm tied behind my back.
What does that even mean?
If the if the fucking thing doesn't do anything?
Yeah, because I don't want to get into it.
My video does.
It doesn't make any sense.
Yeah, but it's long.
I love she pulls it off in the dream world, but in the real world,
it just blows off.
Like, how does that work?
I agree with a category.
This movie is so trash.
It's true.
I'm finally set free.
Yeah, I think the movie's message is pretty fucking sweet.
It's like you're not less of a person.
Her delivery was so good, too.
See, I just I get it.
We'll say, well, the story has this thing in it and they fail to recognize.
It's like, maybe that's what they were going for, but it was really badly executed.
Like, if you told me this movie is about, I don't know, being yourself, I'd be like,
really?
Where'd you get that from?
There's a reason.
It's like if if your if your parents are kidnapped and the protagonist says,
I love my parents and I must go save them.
But instead, he goes to an ice cream parlor.
And then someone says, I really like what he said.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, he said, you know, so that, you know.
If you say she's my captain in chat.
And I like the delivery I've been fighting with one hand tied behind my back.
But now I'm free.
It's like, oh, don't fall asleep.
Don't fall asleep.
Don't fall asleep.
In fact, you're actually stronger than people that do not show emotion.
This is consistent criticism with women.
No, no, it's the space.
It's the hours that make you stronger.
I'm also not sure that I agree with that either.
The idea that like use like sometimes you're being irrational, being emotional.
Especially when you're fighting, when you're fighting, cooler heads will prevail.
You have to think logically, rationally, you have to think with tactics and strategy.
You can't you can't get flustered.
I would take the reverse position when he just took over like, yeah,
typically there's there's a pragmatic way to solve a problem.
But the emotions will often hit the reaching of the pragmatic solution.
And when it comes to Captain Marvel, was it her emotions that made her stronger or her god powers?
I mean, it's up to you, man.
It's a, you know, a little balancing act.
I understand.
It's all about interpretation.
In fact, you're actually stronger than people that do not show emotion.
This is consistent criticism with women.
That's literally not true, though.
That's why they can't get certain jobs.
Women can't get certain jobs because they're too emotional.
Okay.
All right.
Did he just say that?
He said that that's a no, he said that's a consistent criticism that women receive.
Is it?
Bitches are they get way too emotional, though.
Eddie's parents dinner table.
That's what he is a lot.
I don't know if this guy's ever been in like a fucking straight relationship.
Probably not.
But if you've ever been in a straight relationship or hang out with the ladies,
they women do tend to get emotional.
Yeah, I think it's a bit of a balancing act because men can men can be a bit too
emotionless sometimes possible.
Yeah, I don't think I don't think it's even controversial to say that generally women are
more emotionally outgoing than men are.
And because it's not necessarily a negative thing.
Yeah, it's just yeah, it's just it's different than
Didn't you get the memo?
We're outlawing any differences.
We're all the same.
And we'll go on the same sport.
We're all men and women in the one body.
I don't know if this is strong.
You want to be too emotional to
you know, roar and hit people or scream.
It's possible.
It turns out humans as a whole have this problem.
And this movie is like, no, showing emotion isn't a bad thing.
It's actually a good thing.
And I thought that was really sweet.
Showing emotion is not badass.
I'm so sorry that you think showing emotions.
I don't.
There are movies where they don't do that.
Is that you remember how like in seven, how Brad Pitts, you know,
Gwyneth Paltrow, like gets killed by Kevin Spacey.
And then like he shoots him in the head.
And that basically career.
And it forces a permanent wedge between him and Morgan Freeman.
Like it's it's not a good ending.
Like it's not a good ending for the characters.
And that was because he was emotional and thereby making bad decisions.
Yeah.
I mean, Infinity War.
I mean, yeah, that movie wasn't emotional.
Exactly.
Maybe he seems like Infinity War is insulting.
I don't know.
Well, when I was watching Endgame and bawling like a child,
I didn't feel badass in that moment.
Like, who's that fucking badass down there in the front row crying?
You're fucking badass, dude.
Let me lick those tears.
Badass.
Where's he even getting it from?
Like she's she's flying off with the woohoo as people are dying.
Like emotional badass.
Like she's retarded.
She doesn't understand what's happening.
These weren't your friends yesterday.
She doesn't understand what's happening.
It's emotionally stunted, right?
Yeah, no, she seriously lacks the ability to empathize with the events taking place.
That is her problem.
Oh, Jesus.
It's such a bad movie.
Everything is wrong with it.
Wait, there was a very, very touching message to get across to the audience.
We see this directly paralleled with the antagonist, you know,
Talos, played by Ben Mendelsohn, who, you know, in the scene that you're showing,
how come he didn't say, no, wait, we're friends.
Oh, God, that was so bad.
Just say, no, we have all the answers for you.
Yeah, you know, we're friends, actually.
He doesn't just not say that.
He says like such evil shit.
He's like, ah, they screwed with your head, didn't they?
And you're like, why are you speaking like this?
Like both Captain Marvel and the audience are like, yeah, you're the bad guy.
This is like when she leaves, like, sir, maybe you should have said, you know,
anything else to her.
Like, no, wait, we're friends.
We're trying to help you.
They brainwashed you.
We'll explain everything.
We have all the evidence you need to believe us.
Green alien dude that can shape shift.
He's just a dad that wants to find a home for his family.
Yeah, which is pretty consistent.
The first half of the movie is a different character.
I've got a kid.
All they need to do is get out his wallet.
He's like, look, see, there's little Susie.
Funny thing about it, because it's like everyone wants to praise bad metal.
So it's like, absolutely.
He did a really good job playing both of those characters.
Yeah, he did the script justice.
I mean, when I heard the Skrulls were going to be portrayed as good guys,
I was like, this sucks.
This is fucking stupid.
The Skrulls are one of the most iconic villains in the Marvel.
Wow.
So Skrull can't be a hero.
Okay.
Wow.
So fucking racist.
I think the people who think this are, I think they're racist, quite frankly.
There might be legitimate and real reasons why you think that way, but it also is.
Now, if you hate all Kree, that doesn't mean you're a Kree-ist, but it probably means that.
I don't like to generalize, but all of the Skrulls are bad guys.
Bring it as a, as a green man yourself.
How do you feel about this racism?
Man, I, uh, I'm, I, uh, I feel I'm shaking right now.
Oh God.
Yikes.
Yikes.
Literally.
Yikes.
That's a cosmic yikes.
That's the cosmic yikes.
Iconic villains in the Marvel catalog.
Why would you make them good?
Um, but it works really well for the film.
No, it doesn't at all.
They forget a Skrull.
Skrulls is immigrants and symbolism or the metaphor.
So I think the problem here is that by showing Campton Marvel punching an old lady on the tram,
whatever it's called, train, I think that that is encouraging young women to go around and punch
older women, but is like, listen here.
I'm the top dog around here.
Okay.
The theme in argument is that the old woman was a bad man.
Okay.
Done.
That's why I punch.
We did it.
We had a conversation.
So you should punch all of them just to make sure that all bodies.
Yeah.
You can't, you can't let one guilty old woman go free.
We've already established punching them is far better than saying anything to them.
At least she didn't steal her stuff.
Yeah.
And did we, did we see the whole scene?
Did the woman ask her to smile?
Did we, can we, can we track this science?
The woman smiled on her own.
She didn't even have to ask.
That's probably more offensive.
I think.
Yeah.
She preempt, she preemptively smiled, which is a breach of etiquette.
To be honest, I'm disgusted that they would even cast an old man in, in, in this, in this,
in this product.
He portrays the Skrulls as immigrants and refugees.
And the symbolism is, you know, it's a fucking novel movie.
So it's, it's very in your face and it's very obvious.
Yeah.
They're, they're immigrants guys.
But it works.
Okay.
Yeah.
Be nice to immigrants.
Is that, is that the message?
I mean, really like if that was the first thing, you know, if you're going to draw parallels,
is it not like, are the crew not trying to exterminate scrolls from the universe?
That seems more like a parallel to genocides than refugees.
Are the immigrants, are the immigrants or refugees?
Those are different things.
They seem to be refugees, not immigrants.
And you know, it, what, what refugees?
They speak menacingly and ominously to the protagonist.
Like, oh, mess you up.
Now let me in.
And also, now also all of these refugees, we give them a ship so they can fuck off.
So what exactly is the message here?
I'm confused now.
Get him out of here.
You know, get him out of here at the border.
And it's like, okay, guys, you're not allowed in, but here's his coupon for,
I don't know, like Taco Bell.
You guys like to get out of here instead of living here with us.
Here's a boat, fuck off.
Did you write it out?
That sounds very, that sounds very familiar.
I'm gonna say it.
If we're taking, if we're taking this theme or message the way the movie portrays it,
I'm like, well, okay.
Someone posted this in the Discord as me complaining that it's,
it's too, there's none of darkness lately.
Love it.
But yeah, back, back to this wondrous video.
I, I thought it worked really well.
And to the people that are commenting like, oh, you know, the scrolls are good now.
It's like, no, they're not.
The filmmakers are just saying that these scrolls are good.
So the scrolls are good then.
Yeah, there's like, I'm out there, but this is basically all the scrolls.
So now all of the scrolls you view in the film are good.
It's like, no, only these ones.
Oh, okay.
So only all the ones you see.
Like all of them are under the control of, is it Talos is his name.
So yeah, if he's morally good, then the idea would be his army would be
functioning under his orders.
I fuck out of whatever.
There are good scrolls and there are bad scrolls.
And in this film, we saw the good scrolls.
Yeah, we literally only saw.
Remember the good scroll who tries to mid a plank at one point when she's.
The good scroll who tries to kill Dick Fury.
So many good skills.
I just, what a hashtag, not all scrolls.
It's being used in the reverse.
Like not all of them are good.
Hashtag duality of scroll.
What the fuck?
Duality of scroll.
You see in this one here.
I'm going to have time for the duality of scroll.
Duality of man.
You ever heard that saying a duality of scroll.
How about that?
I love you.
I read a book in a big movie.
Duality of scroll.
I think we're out of sync.
Oh, uh, eight 32.
Yeah, I was trying to get back to the reality of scroll.
Duality of scroll.
Ben Mendelsohn.
You need to put that in your video.
It's just randomly duality of scroll.
We'll just cut to it with no context.
This game.
This game mechanic is often referred to duality of scroll.
He just said saying an Aussie in a big movie is nice.
He's about the crevice pants that he's getting represented.
Well, you know, representations important.
Remember, you know, you gotta get it because there's people out there who don't even like
where's where's fetus representation?
There's a lot of those in the world and I don't see many of them in movies.
Have you guys seen many of them?
Where are the fetus actors?
I don't know.
They were in, um, they were in agony.
Oh, wait, wait, wait till he sees Thor.
He's really gonna lose his load.
Especially when it's an Aussie who's as nice and generous as Ben Mendelsohn,
who is a true legend of Australian cinema.
And it's yeah, I'm very happy that he's in one of these gigantic Marvel films.
You know, I really enjoyed the fact that he was home for his family.
You just know that like Ben Mendelsohn's been.
Ben Mels has been a shit ton of stuff.
Yeah, he was in.
I mean, he was in rate play one, which isn't much of a praise,
but he was the best part of that movie too.
That's a no more character in this bad movie.
No, stop.
Well, let's do the orphans will want representation.
No, they don't have rights.
We're fine.
We'll never have rights.
Um, yeah, he said, like, fuck, I need to replay this so I catch it again.
I'm very happy that he's in one of these gigantic Marvel films.
You know, I really enjoyed the fact that he was just a guy trying to look for a home for his family.
Yeah, he was just a guy trying to look for a home for his family,
which explains all the fucking times.
He's trying to kill everyone.
And I just.
Yeah, like I was showing a scene where he's just beaten up.
You know, he wasn't just some asshole that wanted to destroy the universe or some shit.
In fact, when I saw the movie, it just looked on the comics and think, like,
actually, why the fuck are there no good scrolls in the books?
Like, it's.
I don't care about how do you know that there's not boring.
Do they show every scroll in the comics?
Are they a race?
I don't like to generalize, guys.
I don't like to generalize.
What was it like two of them?
Yeah, they're all the same.
Yeah, I'm realistic.
I read trade.
It really is a scrawl list.
This fucked up.
I think chat brought up a good point.
Just like refugees in real life.
Sure, they're just looking for a new home, but a lot of rapes and murders and assaults
just happened to occur whenever they're around.
It's weird.
I thought we established that, like, theft and abuse.
Like, they're fine.
As long as they're not telling people to smile or some shit.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Fucking hell.
An entire fucking specie would be evil.
Like, that's really ridiculous.
What about the Kree?
Oh, mate.
No, come on, man.
You know, with the way that some people.
Yeah, the Kree.
Again, I don't want to.
The whole species.
That's ridiculous.
Oh.
Because remember, like, Captain Marvel indiscriminately obliterates Kree at the end
of the movie.
Like, she doesn't ask them, hey, so what are your political allegiance, guys?
Indifferentially.
Correct.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I think it's ridiculous that all Skrull or all Kree could be bad,
but fucking white people, am I right?
Oh, man.
Generalize, but there's a lot more men that hate this movie and then there are women.
How do you know?
How do you know?
How do you know?
You know what?
Well, you know, he's accidentally become sexist.
There's more reviewers that are men than there are women.
I would imagine that's the typical.
Therefore, people who watch MCU movies are men.
So, of course, statistically was the thing.
If one of my videos was really bad, the majority of the audience that I have right now is male.
Therefore, I would conclude that it's just it's a male thing to hate my video.
Yeah, most of my audience is probably male, too, because it's YouTube.
They hate the fact that I'm a strong, powerful female.
But it's like, I'd be curious when he brings it up.
Like, do you have a study?
Do you have a like, I could believe, you know, I could believe you,
but it would be interesting to be like by percentages,
because if if you're on YouTube, it's a male audience, basically.
So, which is sexist, by the way, it's sexist, which is sexist that that happened.
And it's because YouTube prevent women really from getting a starting chance.
I think you guys would agree with that.
Same with Twitch.
There's this form you have to fill out to apply and it says, are you a woman?
And then if you are, you have to solve a bunch of like,
really complicated math problems and like, do a book report.
There's all this kind of crazy men.
No negative subscribers.
Yeah. And yeah, you're not allowed to stream as much.
And you get paid like 70% of what men do for ads.
It's really fucked.
Well, you get 70% of your super chance.
So they get like 10 1%.
They get one.
They get seven.
They get 70% of that 70%.
It's rough.
There's a lot more men that hate this movie.
And then there are women.
Yeah. More men saw it.
I think that, you know, people really don't get the movie's message.
Yeah. You don't get these messages.
The fact the plot and characters are inconsistent don't make any sense.
Yeah. Yeah.
But you can't dislike it.
I'm waiting for him to be like, the movie was about liking the movie.
And you missed that man.
Yeah. The themes guys.
You can't dislike it because of themes.
You know, the way I've seen people respond to this film,
I would have thought that the message is men suck.
Men are fucking horrible.
Men ruin everything.
I mean, you know, men should burn and die.
I mean, yeah, I agree.
Like, what is he even?
I thought this was meant to be like, what is this video about?
Well, the title is a review of Captain Marvel.
So like, I don't.
This isn't even like a review of the film, really.
No, it's not.
It's definitely political, which just makes that whole,
oh, you know, I just want to hilarious because much of what you've talked about
is what other people think.
I wonder if you'll give a number out of 10 at the end, like five stars.
The creator in chat said movie's message.
I'm a woman.
Batwoman and Captain Marvel, our team up.
It'll be great.
You know, the way I've seen people respond, that's sort of what I thought the theme was.
But the theme is actually the complete opposite.
Men are great.
My interpretation of the movie led me to believe the movie's theme or idea or message
is don't control people.
That's not the opposite of, no, that's not what that's not what an opposite is.
The opposite of men suck is men are great.
The opposite of men are bad is don't control people.
The opposite of cat is ceiling tile.
It makes sense.
I promise.
Just this, you see what I mean?
Like, I'm going to put this in your cell.
It's going to say men are bad, does not equal don't control people.
It's like, what the fuck does that mean?
Go watch these fam.
That's what we were asking.
No matter what gender, you know, the supreme intelligence is a really interesting character
in this film.
Is it a character?
As we mentioned at the start, the supreme intelligence looks completely different
for every single character.
And the only time we see the supreme intelligence,
who is the main villain of the film, by the way, she's portrayed as a woman.
You've just highlighted the gender of the portrayal is irrelevant because there's
nothing to do with the actual thing.
Yeah, she has that.
There's a reason for her to look like that.
I guess he's double wrong.
He's double wrong because the AI says it's the person you respect the most.
So this is the person that the hero respects the most is a woman.
OK, so if anything, it's a positive for the portrayal for the women.
He's saying that she's the main villain.
See, women are main villain in this.
Look, look.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, no, it's kind of the reverse of that.
So good, good job.
You did it.
Hooray.
Right, though.
Even then, even this weird belief that the film is anti-men, the main.
Come on.
You literally just you literally justified stealing a man's property.
Smile.
You justify this.
You say that it's virtuous.
Yeah, but, you know, if that was a female biker who had come to her and said, hey,
hey, bitch, smile, she would have been like, it's OK.
Smile, you can't.
I wonder I genuinely would like to see his interpretation of the scene if it was just
a girl that did that instead of a guy.
Yeah, let's let's fucking reverse.
Let's play a game of reverse the genders.
And see how it plays out.
My she was really brutal to like the go to shake hands and he just uses his other arm
to punch her down into the ground, slabs her head like blood just splashes.
Everybody just starts tearing the clothes off like the mind.
Like, this is OK, though, because she was kind of being a dick.
You know, it's fine.
OK, are doing draw the line at just Grand Theft Auto and not like physical violence?
Because even if we drew the line there, well, then we have the lead scene.
Physical violence actually occurs.
So it's awful.
There's no it's almost like if you had a principal.
Well, I just can't believe we're in the issue.
I mean, this this would be a case of clown world, right?
The idea that you view that scene and you come away from it like, you know,
that's that's OK.
Well, the well, the person who made an off handed verbal comment did deserve to be
physically assaulted.
So well, in fairness, he's reviewing the one where she just steals from him.
So, yeah, we have to clarify that.
Oh, yeah.
And in this one, it's just, oh, he did say something to her that could be construed as
maybe disrespectful in some way.
So yeah, stealing his shit does make sense.
And it's probably his like most expensive possession to potentially other than his
like house if he has one.
He he doesn't he doesn't own his house.
He's probably making payments on it.
Yeah.
So generally the car on a movie about that guy.
Imagine imagine they made a show.
He didn't know his wife died of cancer six months earlier and his friends have been
saying you've got to start talking to women again.
Yeah, yeah, we need a short movie.
Someone should make that parody.
And he's like every time I when I get out on my chopper in the desert, it just clears
my head.
I get to think clearly.
It makes the depression go away.
I could finally feel like I can start to rebuild my life as long as long as I have my bike
and I come out here.
I feel like I feel good.
A friend of his like, you've got to show confidence.
You've got to show confidence a long time.
Women like it when you have a nickname to make up a nickname.
Women love it when you've got a nickname.
But he's like, What about someone like the dog?
And it's like, Oh, you go with it.
See what happens.
Try it out.
Like he goes home.
Then don't be afraid to fucking suicide.
He's like,
Yeah, I was about to say like, he goes over cuts of the bathtub.
It's like every time I try to toast something.
Every time I try to fix my life, it just goes wrong.
So that motorcycle was a gift from my wife.
I didn't even go up with that motorcycle.
He needed it for his job or whatever.
Yes.
He's really low paid.
Low hour job.
John Wick.
Imagine.
Oh, I was just my team.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
You know, so like,
just like you started like Captain Marvel's talking to you on wrong.
He's like, and you stole his car and you stole his motorcycle and you killed his fucking dog.
That jukebox was a gift from him.
Captain Marvel 2 needs to be about him getting his revenge.
Yeah.
Yeah, the point we're making though, like honestly,
is that you have no idea what the context of that guy is.
Yeah, you just beat the shit out of it.
It was like, cool.
Thanks.
What's weird too, is that we've been focusing a lot on the motorcycle,
but remember she just randomly just destroy somebody's jukebox.
That was another thing that, yeah, it was played off as a joke.
Yeah, it's like property destruction.
Fuck it.
Was there a reason for it?
Was there anything at stake?
Did it solve anything?
No, no.
She also blows a hole in the top of the train without checking if there's anyone underneath.
Ah, fuck it.
She could have killed three people.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's actually someone I didn't manage to talk about.
Who knows who she fucking killed when she did that.
Yeah, there's charred bodies under that hole.
That stupid jukebox scene as well.
Nothing is accomplished.
They need to prove to each other that neither of them are scrolls.
They don't.
Then the scene ends.
Okay.
Good stuff, guys.
Fucking woman.
I don't understand.
I don't understand.
We know you don't understand.
That's just how we know.
People don't put that together.
I don't know how you put this together.
Like, yeah,
they had a really elaborate sort of detailed test
that they went through to determine if somebody was a replicant or not.
Yeah, and detailed and good.
And like, remember when movies were good?
Yeah.
No.
Not anymore.
Been too lost.
What year is it?
I feel like Jumanji is like, what year is it?
It's like a bad trip in there.
If I'm being completely honest with you,
the only way as a male that you could watch this film and be offended by its portrayal of men
is if you're one of the assholes it portrays.
Okay.
Wow.
All right.
I don't like to generalize, but-
It's not the acting.
It's not the script.
Can I just flip it?
I'm gonna flip it.
If you're upset by the portrayal of whores in Backdoor Sluts 12,
it's probably because you are a whore.
It's like, thanks, dude.
Holy shit.
Wow.
This is what I mean.
It always feels so unfixed.
It's like, if you flip this, you'd be like one of the most controversial YouTubers there is.
But no, if you didn't like the way that men are all assholes and need to be beaten slash
defeated because of their controlling or disinterested or emotionless ways, you're one of them.
Yeah.
If you don't like something, it's because you are it.
If you don't like how media always portrays every single German in the 1940s as a Jew-hating Nazi
who's a terrible, horrible person, then I've got some bad news for you.
You're probably a terrible, horrible Nazi yourself.
If the shoe fits.
Yeah, well.
But I wonder what his response would be if somebody turned around and said, but I like
wonder.
Yeah, he's fucking brain would explode.
Yeah, he would be like, you don't exist.
Stop it.
You don't exist.
Just just read that super chat ahead of time.
The 10th planet said the Spider-Man tortoise with great power comes great responsibility.
Captain America taught us that what's on the inside, it makes us heroic.
Captain Marvel teaches us that assault is A-OK.
It's like, yeah, it's about as simple as that.
As long as it's against a man.
Yeah.
Look how friendly this guy looks.
I mean, he's thinking, got past the death of his wife.
He still wears the shades because he's a little afraid of being open.
Yeah, you know, man, he must have he thought about he he saw her from a distance and he
thought he thought to himself for 20 fucking minutes.
Am I going to go talk to her?
Am I going to am I actually going to do this?
Yeah, you're the Don.
You could do this.
You could do this.
You got your bike.
You got your shades.
You got your jacket.
You could fucking do this.
Thanks for the jacket that turned up in a package after the death of his wife.
It was a special gift that she'd organize.
And that stuff keeps getting darker and darker.
But the Don is the real hero.
He has like prosthetic leg as well.
Like when she electrocuted him and damaged it, he can't walk.
Yeah, he's a he's a war veteran.
Yeah, he starts out like flashbacks.
He had a pacemaker that she fucked up to.
He just came from like a charity shop that he was trying to organize.
Yeah, I just got back from the soup kitchen where I give food to orphans and spend time to
help them develop healthy relationships so they can grow into strong men.
Like he was actually bringing the motorcycle there because it was like someone else's or
he's going to donate it to someone who needed travel.
And he's like, oh, someone's taking it.
Oh, no, like this motorcycles.
It's what it's what Becco would have wanted for me to give this motorcycle
to somebody who could really, really put it to you so it could
and positively impact someone else's life.
I need to see this.
I need to see this.
I want to see this movie about a guy who gets over by a superhero.
I mean, the dog becomes he's the first vulture.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Straight up becomes Punisher after this.
Every time I did something nice, I get shadowed.
Bub look just providing the chance.
Like, you know why they call it a cockpit?
Oh, no, I always forgot about that shit line.
Hashtag not old dogs.
It's some great dog.
I want I wanted the dawn to come up to me in real life and compliment me.
Fuck that shit.
I want that to happen.
That's something I want that to happen to me.
Press press.
Justice for the dawn.
The dawn did nothing wrong, man.
The dawn movie coming at.
Check not all cockpits.
He always tells the people he helps at the homeless shelter to smile.
Those are the beautiful after they do it.
It's like.
For your method and mouth teeth.
I can't believe that.
I cannot believe that this fucking saint is being treated.
I stand with Don.
I stand with Don.
I got a right.
It's important, guys.
Solid.
I would have fucking tweeted that out right now.
Don lives.
Sex it.
Press F for dawn.
My thoughts and prayers.
The last thing the last thing his wife said said to him was try to smile more.
There you go.
There's the tweet.
Everyone got to get this message out there.
He deserves to be like an absolute loss.
So much development.
There's so much backstory to unravel.
He was a good man.
He was a good man.
Hands up, Don.
Shoot.
Don, stop believing.
Scootle Royale said more than ever heard of the bike is against child abuse.
That's what Don does.
Oh, my God.
Who knew that this who knew that this shitty fucking video would show us that Don was the real hero.
The real hero.
He's the hero at home who helps the homeless.
We all stand with.
Don, especially after they release the extended damage to Don, you know, that's what we do.
Could you imagine like a Don was a lot like imagine if it was Dr. Strange there.
You know, he's like, Oh, smiles.
He crushes his hand.
It's like, Hey, can you save me surgery?
No, some bitch.
So I guess you're just going to die.
Sorry.
Oh, man.
One of the assholes it portrays.
If you're emotionally controlled women will tell random.
Always darkest before the top.
Don, but not forgotten.
You know nothing, Don.
Baby, don't hurt me.
Don't hurt me.
Don, Don donated his kidney to see the young girl's life.
Literally like the greatest human being that ever exists.
The most pure and yellow person that could ever exist.
He's American Gandhi.
Don of justice.
Don't walk down the good, the bad, the don't don't assemble because he's a hero.
You can do what all the others have just got in one in Don.
We trust don't even look so happy.
Don could have beaten her like he could have defended himself.
And he was just like, I'll let her do this.
She must need this more than me.
Oh, no one's ever really done.
So I called him Don Wick.
I'm going to die.
Okay.
Don.
We trust.
Women that they need to smile more or think of a woman less than you
because she doesn't have.
Don would never think that way.
How dare you.
She doesn't have a dick.
I need to play that again.
Glass holes it portrays.
If you emotionally control women or tell random women that they need to smile more
or think of a woman less than you because she doesn't have a dick.
Wait a second.
Are you implying that only men have penises?
Wow.
That is incredibly transphobic.
That's so narrow minded.
Listen, if you are lucky that the Don father is not here to listen to your bigoted garbage.
Yeah.
Or he would tell you to smile more.
Don is kind enough that you would allow this kind of talk.
You would allow it.
The Don is merciful.
Yep.
The Don's mercy is never ending.
The Don father permits.
Don doesn't say penises.
The Don abides.
Yeah, Don doesn't see penises over genies.
He just sees a person.
No, he doesn't say that.
He just sees people.
Yeah.
Penises over genies.
He doesn't have to go to your side.
I'm going to put that I get down.
I don't.
I didn't want penises and vaginis to slip under the radar there.
I don't even know how that would be spelled,
but we go with the out of context quote.
The Don father doesn't see penises over genies.
And his name is Don Cena.
I'm sorry, but you're a fucking asshole.
You needed that on screen, I guess.
Yeah, I guess.
Whoa, I'm just on the wake up call.
Fuck.
You got a peony buddy? Is that it?
I'm going to apologize to my woman.
Because she doesn't have a dick.
Then I'm sorry, but you're a fucking asshole.
This movie shows the extremes of men and masculinity.
Yes, no, it doesn't.
Extreme.
Why?
No, I remember.
Don's the streamest.
That's an extreme telling a woman to smile.
It doesn't get any worse than that.
Masculinity.
Imagine if we missed a big bunny.
Like G, Alpha.
Is that.
Is this video a parody of this?
I could imagine out there somewhere, there's a woman being brutally raped and she's like,
well, at least they didn't tell me to smile.
I got off easy.
I got off easy.
Jesus Christ, how dumb.
Oh, dodge the bullet there.
Also breaks down those stereotypes with characters like Nick Fury and Talos.
Who was making that stereotype?
Being a government is a fucking softy.
Like the second group.
Nick Fury is a softy.
It's supporting the argument that this film portrays masculinity in the extremes.
Yeah, Nick Fury is like the opposite of Don.
He's like Nick Fury is like the opposite of Nick Fury.
Nick Fury could have learned something from the Don father.
He did.
They didn't meet.
They didn't cross paths in this film, unfortunately.
You see, one day Nick Fury went into that bar and the Don came in and he saw Nick Fury over there
that eye patch and he sat down and said, man, I know what happened.
He was rough losing an eye like that.
And he shows him his prosthetic leg that he lost in the war defending the orphans of Vietnam.
And he's don't worry, man.
He's like, I lost something important to me, too.
But we carry on.
He gives him a big speech.
And Nick Fury says, yeah, I'm going to protect the earth against aliens.
And Don's like, I don't know what you mean, but go for it, man.
I mean, he is the old father, essentially.
He's more Odin than Odin.
And Nick says, oh, by the way, thanks for donating a new jukebox to this place.
I really appreciate it.
He built it himself.
It was better than the previous one.
It was a project that him and all the orphans did.
They all did.
It was like a project because that bar, it was all not alcoholic.
It was for recovering alcoholics, that bar.
The music is what really allowed them to really get over their problems.
But no, you know, some people don't care about that.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Good morning, Vietnam.
Good morning, Vietnam.
Someone said in chat, he takes off his sunglasses and has two eyelashes.
Wait, Jason, why would he defend orphans?
I thought he was supposed to be good.
He'll defend all people.
The dawn of it is just he is pure in ways that we cannot comprehend.
You can never get to his level, as this man said.
His magnamity knows no bounds.
Bruce, the cat shows up.
We see this completely different side of Yuri.
And it's like, holy shit.
That's how I would have responded to a cat.
And it would tell us.
No, it isn't.
I'm like, what is a cat doing here?
Yeah, it goes up to me and I'm like, go away.
I've got shit to do.
So we're trying to save the world.
But yeah, we're out with this cat that's in like the most secure place ever.
Okay.
He's just a dad.
How do you summarize Talos as just a dad when the first time we see him,
he's literally like kidnapping the main character by electrocuted her?
Just a dad.
Interesting interpretation.
He strings her up upside down and starts playing with her head.
Yeah.
Just a dad.
Orders has been seen.
You're missing the cool theme about this film.
Orders who meant to kill him.
Sorry.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah, he orders his man.
You have to fuck her up.
Says take him dead or alive.
He's just a dad.
Hot.
Hashtag dad life.
You know, like, he's not some fucking.
Fucking Jay.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
He's not an asshole in a mother.
No, man, you're loud.
That'd be silly.
That'd be silly.
Jay said he's good in ways we can't don't pretend.
Don't pretend.
Wait, what if Don was just a dad?
Oh, no.
He's going to be a dad of many, isn't he?
That's the idea.
He's just trying to look after after his wife tragically died of cancer.
He had that he's a single father.
He has to raise his daughter.
And he actually he adopted a few kids as well.
He considered he's like, I'm, you know, I'm a father to a lot of people,
but not not all biological.
That's just how it works.
That doesn't really change how much I love them.
That's what I want to be a father figure for all children.
Don overcame all from love.
He was like, No, boffins.
I love them just as much as my he ascended into a state of existence
that you ever attain.
He is the guy.
I stand with Don responded to a cat.
And it would tell us he's just a dad.
You know, like some fucking asshole.
He just was by telling him to smile.
It is the greatest attack ever.
If you go onto the Internet and search
the most searched for Avengers on Pornhub.
Number one is Captain Marvel.
Not quite a little bit.
What does that tell us?
I bet he watched more than three videos researching that bit.
And yeah, yeah, awkward that he actually put this in here.
But my immediate assumption is oh, yeah, because the movie came out.
Also, I'd like to point out that Hulk is more than Captain America.
And Hulk is higher than Scarlet Witch.
Wow.
And Gamora.
Jesus.
He's got that.
Think about how big that massive green dick must be.
Doesn't this make sense?
It's like the movie comes out.
People watch the movie and then they.
Yeah, this is this is how people do it.
I'm seriously like we seriously got to play fucking porn.
Let's see what his conclusion is.
I'm fascinated on how he's going to spin by a significant amount.
So what I'm thinking here is, you know.
You don't hate Captain Marvel.
You just hate the fact that she's a woman.
You're just misogynistic.
I thought that you said at the beginning.
How much he covered himself at the start.
He just forgot about it.
He said if you don't like it doesn't mean he's sexist.
But now he's like, you don't not like it.
You just misogynistic.
What the fuck?
Jesus.
He kind of forgot that he wasn't defending that.
Robo him was right.
You could have.
I could have made these points better than him.
Like for sure.
Like this is terrible.
Who do you think you're going to convince with this?
Is like, did you know that a lot of people who aren't you beat off to her?
That means you're a misogynist.
I'm like, I'm sorry.
I don't have control over what they beat off to on Pornhub.
I didn't do it.
Well, shit.
You're a fucking misanogenized.
Like, sorry.
He's Jesus anyway.
In the end, Captain Marvel doesn't have a problem with men.
So much as the film has a problem with horrible people, no matter their gender.
Fuck off.
That's not true at all.
You just got to throw that up at the end.
Stop whining about Spider-Man, huh?
I didn't know people were whining about Spider-Man.
Avengers Endgame, the pinnacle of superhero movies.
No, it wasn't a perfect finale.
It was good, but it wasn't a perfect finale at all.
Civil War is the pinnacle of superhero movies.
There'll be debate here on that, but I agree with you.
Yeah, I love it, but still, yeah.
So what do we think?
Good video.
That was pretty, that was on a scale of one to ten with one being Captain Marvel and ten being the
Don.
I would give that like, oh man, that's rough.
Two.
Yeah, it's better than Captain Marvel in fitness.
He did it.
It's better than Captain Marvel because mostly because it's shorter.
Oh, don't cry to my girlfriend.
That's the caliber of defense you've got for this movie.
He couldn't even like, he still said it wasn't even that good.
But that's the defense team.
It's like, yeah, I mean, you're a sexist, but you know.
It's big on Pornhub.
In fitness.
That was it.
That was the definitive catch all argument.
Once he threw that up there, I was like, yeah, this is sexism.
That's what this is.
All right.
He's funny.
You have to admit, you didn't realize how good the don was until we watch this video.
I didn't realize what a hero he was.
No, no.
Yeah, that's true.
He's the unsung hero of the Marvel MC.
He's going to be snubbed at the Oscars as well.
I imagine that actor and then I'm going to appreciate his portrayal.
And yeah, we're not going to get the solo movie for the Don, but we will.
Well, he'll be in our spirit.
You'll be in our heart.
We'll take him forward.
We'll stand with him.
I think this you all agree with that.
I think so.
Oh, yeah.
No, I'm glad we I'm glad we came to that conclusion.
But yeah, this might be like the majority of the video is you're sexist.
But the beginning is like, you know, it's okay.
It's a video review.
It's a review of the film.
He really covered so much of it.
You know, it's funny because we'd be like 12 minutes in a review.
Jesus.
How much is he even going to be able to cover?
It's like he covered maybe the theme.
I've got a guy.
He didn't properly, like, well, argue anything against you.
He just like referenced you.
Well, he referenced you without using your name.
Can't do that.
Your signal boost me.
That would be irresponsible.
Yeah, but he didn't like it's like everyone knows who you're talking about.
Just have the balls to say it.
No, didn't take one line or anything.
Just listen to it.
Oh, look at this.
Oh, man, that so I mean, talk about a change of pace.
So we're going to jump into some Game of Thrones stuff now.
This this this will be interesting from an argumentation standpoint.
This is the thing.
The approach we got here is that me and Robot Head have seen them thoroughly.
Rags and Fringy have seen a couple things here and there.
Definitely clips on some full episode.
I got dragged into this stupid dragon show by mauler after a zombie episode.
Now I'm upset about it, too.
And then Alex just give me a minute before you start the video.
I'll be back in one take.
No problem.
Um, and Alex has seen how much how far did you go?
I feel like you washed up to actually watching the end of season six,
because I'm pretty sure I made you, but you would have forgotten most of it by now.
I imagine I'll grab a bite and drink.
I'll grab a bite and a drink.
I'll be back in a little bit.
I don't think so.
I don't.
I didn't.
I don't recall watching season six.
You show me bits of it.
I could have, well, it doesn't matter either way.
I want to know about some information everyone has, basically.
Well, I know what everything happens, but I checked out the show like a season four.
Yeah.
After season four.
I feel like you checked earlier than that, to be honest.
You only like stopped watching.
Well, when I say checked out, I mean,
I was bitching and complaining about so much shit beforehand.
But yeah, that's when I yeah, when I stopped watching it, it was season four.
Yeah, that's the season.
The end of season four is where I definitely called it for the good writing.
But, you know, it wasn't dead.
It's very complicated to define how dead even works because, you know,
people think Star Wars died with the prequels, but then they're like,
no, it died with the sequels.
It's like, is it dead yet?
Is it still potentially to be killed?
I don't know.
We haven't ruined everyone's character yet.
They only ruined certain ones.
Certain ones who are very valuable to me.
Well, Palpatine's next.
And Lando.
I'm gonna go with double kill.
I don't care anymore.
That shit.
Yeah.
Well, the Game of Thrones, they pretty much killed every character outside of like
the hound outside of Don.
Don didn't grace Game of Thrones.
He graces the MCU.
Everyone knows this.
But yeah, the actual person we will be covering is our good friend, Mundane Matt.
I don't know if you guys have ever heard of Mundane Matt.
He's a very popular content creator.
He has a lot of interesting opinions about different things.
And, you know, he's going to, he's mounting us.
He's mounted a small defense of Game of Thrones here.
The title of the video is Game of Thrones is better than you think.
And it's in relation.
I think this came out after episode three or four or both.
I can't quite remember.
It's going to be really interesting to get his take.
It's basically what I'm saying.
Exciting stuff.
I'm back.
Hello.
I think Rags is still rummaging for a drink.
Just give him an old...
Look at his bowl.
The Quarry King.
Yeah, apparently Chatter aware of this Mundane Matt person.
I don't know what to think.
I don't know.
Maybe, maybe he's, maybe he's gone around YouTube a little bit.
I don't know.
Will yours choose such high caliber of quality to pick on?
I know.
It's great.
Well, this is the thing, right?
There's not such...
If anyone wants to point me to the best defense of Captain Marvel, you know,
we'll try and cover it at some point because that'll be interesting.
Because we try to do it with a lot of different franchises,
but it's just like, fuck, how do you mount a defense for the latest episodes of Game of Thrones?
That is tough.
Like, you got to be grasping at the old straws at that point, I'd imagine.
Well, you just pick a, another high fantasy TV show from like the 90s and just pick on that
and just show how bad the comparison is and just go, see, this is what we deserve.
This kind of shit.
Then we'd be like, well, they're both bad.
And then it'd be like, what is, what is a 90s fantasy TV show?
Hercules still came out in the 90s with Kevin Sorbo.
Oh yeah, that's right.
And what was the spinoff?
Don't play along.
It's a real thing.
It happened.
It's a real thing.
Oh shit, maybe I'll embarrass myself.
Yeah, no, it's like, I'm not making it up.
People in chat can confirm.
There you go.
Wait, Zena was the spinoff?
Yeah, that's it, Zena.
I thought Zena was the popular one.
I mean, there was the Highlander TV show.
That was a thing.
Don't go there.
Don't go there.
What is Rags doing right now?
I told you, look for the ball.
How could he have taken this long?
Doesn't he have a backup ball?
Jesus.
That's his ball for shitting in.
Now he's going to look for the one for pissing me.
The only Zena that's good is Zena on the top from GoldenEye.
It was GoldenEye, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Nah, the only one that's good is on Pornhub
because, you know, that's all that women are good for.
Oh my God, he said it.
He's a middensaw.
He's a minimalist.
I say it for the very thin walls.
Play his next room.
You see a grub like, all right.
Women suck.
I'm sorry.
Zena was popular because men hate women.
Oh, wow.
I love that.
Oh, there you go.
Let's talk about what's your favorite Bond film, everyone.
I'm back.
Shit.
What?
Andy Boyle.
What?
Andy Boyle.
What?
Andy Byron?
What are you saying, GoldenEye?
Okay.
Anyway, Rags, are you ready for this next video?
Yeah.
Yeah, I am ready.
Is everyone ready?
I got a drink.
I got my cliff bar here.
This is called Game of Thrones is better than you think.
And the thumbnail says it's not as bad as you think.
All right.
Hey, what's going on, everyone?
My name is Matt Jarbo.
This is the Buck Theater.
And Game of Thrones returns tonight for the pen ultimate episode.
What's up with that blanket behind him?
Does he sits looking better?
He looks great, Rags.
Why are you criticizing it?
Jesus.
No, the blanket.
Yeah, the blanket looks great.
That shit looks really awkward at the collar.
Like it's tight.
But hey, you know, it's a boob thing.
Come on, guys.
I'm appreciating his clothes.
You know, I like he's got a Boba Fett shirt.
That's so fucking cool.
It is so fucking cool.
I'll appreciate it.
It's very cool.
Very cool.
Very cool.
Ever.
And I don't know about you, but I'm very excited.
It's going to be another brutal battle episode, a long episode.
I'm getting ready to watch with my dad in a couple hours.
And we're both really, really, really excited for the last episode.
So he's apparently episode four just aired.
So five and six haven't come out yet.
Okay, absolutely loved this season as we have both loved the show up until now.
And I find it interesting that when I go and I look at Game of Thrones commentary on YouTube,
the more popular videos, the more popular articles, the more popular people
are all just shitting on it.
Why would that be?
Why would that be?
What a weird question.
Up to this point, all the popular videos tend to be positive.
You get Alt Shift X has created like a millions of subscribers out of
positively covering Game of Thrones.
Suddenly, it's more popular than shit on it.
What happened?
What could have happened?
Why did someone in Chas and my wife's dad?
Right.
At this point, the Dawn hates Game of Thrones.
That series.
That's just fun to shit on.
And it kind of is not even watch it.
And they kind of argue.
Oh, well, this is terrible.
Writing is terrible.
Everything is terrible.
This not really.
Oh, I'm fucking not really.
How do you end if you refuse?
I don't defuse.
What the fuck?
No, both, both, both.
Fuck it.
I love what he just says.
It's kind of not like, oh, par with how it's been.
You're wrong.
It's pretty long with how it's been.
D.B. Weiss and David Benioff were adapting
George RR Martin's books.
They were pulling a lot from the dialogue and the theme.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
God, please tell me how adaptions work.
Please tell me he's going to, you know, he's going to fucking
cover his ass and just go, oh, I know that, you know,
like a couple of seasons of fucking made up.
Yeah.
Well, that's I'm pretty sure we could already see
where the argument's going.
Is it really like they ran out of the source?
Teams and the tones and the character.
And when that went away, they were then given a summarization
of what was going to happen.
At least.
Summarization.
Cliff Moses says, why didn't he why didn't he say
summarization instead of summary?
Why didn't you just say summary?
Yeah.
He's like a shorter, easier word.
But okay.
Well, you know, he's going to strike this video.
Oh, don't you start long, man.
Bad.
Don't you start short there.
Summarization.
Yeah.
We'll keep that.
That's a word.
Daenerys's face is my face right now.
Just he's just watching Matt Garbo right now.
Said that could change at this point in time
based upon the response to the season.
He might sit there and pull a full metal alchemist
brotherhood and divert what he wrote to what the show gave.
Fucking wish that they remake this show
once he's got the books out.
Yeah, I didn't keep the first few seasons.
Probably five three docs.
Season four, episode ten, and all of them.
Just age the Stark children by 20 years
that they're all in the adulthood.
Yeah.
Just to do a secondary version of how I met your dragon
something.
I don't know, some spin off show.
Who knows?
Do it before it.
But it's a game of thrones brotherhood.
That could be a freaking huge thing for HBO.
But the culprit here is George.
And I don't think enough people out there are calming that out.
That is a bold claim, sir.
I mean, that's interesting.
George's fault that they don't know how to adapt work
without a source.
It's George's fault.
Well, if he could be bothered to fucking finish it in time,
then they would have to fucking copy off of.
And this ignores all of the things they haven't used in his books.
You know, it's funny.
Could you imagine like, you cheat off someone in a test
and then you fail and you're like, for fuck's sake, man.
Why didn't you do better?
I didn't fucking asshole.
I blame you.
You know, it's like that episode of, you know, he gets
killed after Morty tells him that the afterlife is real
and he starts getting dragged to hell.
He's like, oh, I blame you.
And the show runners for doing the best that they can with what they've got.
Oh, they did the best.
Fucking river with what they've got people with.
He said with what they've got their own brains, like they can work whatever they want.
It's all they could do with doing their best.
They're doing their best.
I've seen enough evidence of them too.
And they don't even give a shit to even read the books.
They don't even know which characters are POV characters.
They literally slip up.
Well, I say slip.
It's not even a slip up because like, you know,
they when they get pointed out that they're mistake,
they're not even sure if that's right or not.
They're like, they're that fucking like faultless about it all.
Look, they're doing their best.
Look, we just sort of forgot how good writing works.
I do funny music if you like.
Look what they had to work with.
It just shows a picture of them.
This poor guy.
They didn't know.
And I find that to be very fascinating.
I find that to be very, very, very interesting because George had years
to write these last two books, had years to write these last
images, and he would talk about it.
He literally took an extra.
I'm not about him to the fucking list.
But still never move forward on the books.
The last two books have yet to come out.
Does it take longer to write a book or a season for a show?
It doesn't like.
Why is it that you go to any thread on any forum about Game of Thrones
and you'll find better writing just by randomly clicking one?
Like, can we just I just the analogy I gave the act man
was because he was like, maybe we shouldn't blame them
when they've got no, like, scaffolding, if you will,
for building their house.
And I was just like, it would be like the builder
just shoots himself in the head before the project even starts.
You can't say that it's like the scaffolding fault.
Oh, fuck.
I mean, if you hire someone to paint your house and he does a
shitty job, you're not like, well, I mean, he tried his best.
I mean, why I kind of view it as like, you know, you're working
on a project.
Okay, you got it.
You got it.
You figured it out.
Yeah, sure.
I'll come back, you know, I'll come back late.
And then you come back and everything's in flames.
Yeah.
What the fuck happened?
This is the this is the kind of condescending attitude
that you give to a child.
Like, oh, you did your best, sweetie.
Yeah.
Could you imagine if D&D listen to this?
It's like, wow, he just like things.
We can't fucking big like these are these are adults
who have basically unlimited time, unlimited budgets,
and unlimited resources.
This isn't like a child finger painting.
Like, oh, that doesn't look really enough.
All right.
Is that enough?
Is that enough?
I don't think it is.
They need.
I mean, they need training wheels.
They need it done.
Yeah.
Everyone needs the dawn.
Yet to have a release.
The dawn could teach them a thing or talk about going
to the publisher.
They have yet to be announced to being finished.
They have yet to be announced to being finished.
Even even JK Rowling finished the deathly Hallows.
Why did you say that?
Like, she shouldn't.
Now, I don't know what to say to him because they're all
terrible authors on.
And they suck.
Cutting out a bit there, bud.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, there are there are a lot of authors on Amazon
write books in two months and they're just complete shit.
And conversely, you have some authors who it takes them
years to write something.
And then it's awesome when it comes out.
It doesn't.
It depends on how like, I don't know what to say to him
other than maybe he's just having a hard time writing.
Like, maybe you don't know the HPO basically capitulated
to them.
One hundred percent makes me think like, yeah, this is one
hundred percent their faults.
Where else would the buck stop?
But I mean, what can't you excuse by saying, oh, he tried
his best.
You know, you know, his heart was in the right place.
If we're going to run with Matt's crazy logic here.
Um, so the scenes that aren't in the books that are in
the show that were that were written by the channel that
what name is channel that Matt's crazy logic.
Um, there are see there.
So the scenes people at most reference are the ones where
Robert talks to see about how he they never could have
worked.
And Tywin and I have all the scenes between Tywin and I.
People reference them as like, you know, that was some
really good work, even though it wasn't in the books.
It was it was just great dialogue.
So I'd be like, so we have to credit George with that, right?
Because you have to credit everything that was all isn't
with with him.
There's no responsibility.
All the good stuff are the new writers and all of the
shitty stuff is George.
Okay.
All right.
Good stuff.
Yeah.
Years before the ending of the franchise as a whole.
So everything that's gone wrong right now is ultimately
Georgia are our mark.
It's not.
Matt, Matt, I know that.
I know that the concept of working really hard is foreign
to you, but have you ever had you ever made boulders were
heavy?
You know, throw out my back.
He looked in boulders.
Fucking Game of Thrones.
The show how it's probably before they run out.
Half the problem is that they cut out a lot of the source
material for either for budget timing or because it can be
fucking asked reasons.
But fuck six, man.
It's not just, oh, George, what do we do now?
George, George, no, they're going to the wall.
We don't have to do.
Come on, mate.
We got to do it.
We got to do it.
It's not like that.
You fucking retard.
There's people in the world who would kill to have been
given the first half of Game of Thrones story and to take it
on just to be like, I'd love to finish this story.
But no, apparently it's George's fault because he should
have known they were retarded.
He should have known they couldn't finish the story
without him.
Also, I'm sorry.
He also references Full Metal Alchemist and Full Metal
Alchemist Brotherhood.
And I don't know about any of you guys.
I know, Cal, you're not seen.
You're not seen the original.
I've only shown you Brotherhood yet.
Well, you know the story, but the whole original one
run out of it got ahead of the manga and then they made a path
or whatever.
I didn't.
I still prefer Brotherhood, but it still wasn't terrible.
It's not Game of Thrones where it still sucks everything up.
It didn't just completely shit the fucking bed.
It actually went somewhere and like, like, well, as in line
with what about its own universe, a crane.
I still prefer Brotherhood, but it wasn't it's not shit.
I'm not insulted either.
But fuck it perspective.
If you want anyone to blame, it's him.
I don't understand how you can say this.
That's so fucked that what the hell it's it's like, yeah,
the directors, the writers, the script.
Yeah, it's not it's not them.
It's it's blame George R.R. Martin.
Lame the guy who literally didn't make it.
The Hobbit is Tolkien's fault.
Perspective.
If you want anyone to blame, it's him.
How much job can you give an established characters a whole
world to build from?
Like, even if you just got the most basic ending, it would have
been better than what we got.
Yeah.
Like over basic created the world.
Here it is.
Just take it on and finish it.
And then it's a problem.
Oh, just because it didn't fit into your fan for you.
Yeah.
Sorry, you guys gonna want to see this.
Give me a sec.
Oh, no, it's a Don related game.
Alrighty, man, they work fast.
Hooray.
I mean, Baywood would probably make a Don related thing of
that fucking post drags.
It's great.
But yeah, this will read it.
Who's reading it?
Sally was still here to see this view.
But Bob was right.
I should start to talk to other boys.
So, so glad to have Timmy's.
Yeah, it's one hell of a.
Try to be someone.
Oh, she's you.
Maybe I should see this view.
Oh, that's so sad.
This meme has more emotional weight to it than all of.
It's could have been his actual story.
I could have watched this to be like a really good move.
We don't deserve the talk.
He's too good for this world.
It's fucking Jimmy.
Jimmy is pinching up.
That's one.
I'm gonna grow up.
Maybe I should throw up.
I'll make you proud.
Oh, your mom will be proud too.
She's looking down out of her heaven and smiling.
You know, like after he gets his hand crushed,
so dad, when are we going to be eating dinner again?
Oh, sorry.
I lost my job.
Oh, because my head doesn't work.
I'll figure something out to me.
Don't you worry.
The doctor say a few more years until my hand heals.
We can't throw it.
We can't throw a ball together anymore.
It's like not for a long time.
I can roll you it.
And he tries and it hits his arm.
He's like, oh, sorry, Jimmy.
What about our doggy?
Oh, we can't afford him anymore, son.
What?
It's so fucked.
Captain Marvel, dude.
Somebody shared the video of the actor playing virus
and his reaction to his death.
Yeah, yeah.
If you pause at the right moment,
you can see where he's blaming George.
Yes, of course, it's George.
You guys should check.
I guess I should play that annoying.
Is there a YouTube version?
Because I can put it in watch together then.
But I guess if you guys watch it,
then I'll play it for the chat.
We just sync up and watch the whole thing, I guess.
Oh, I might get copyright strikes, though,
because it's from the documentary.
It's filmed over.
Like somebody's got like somebody's
probably got it.
If I can.
I don't know if that will dodge it.
Well, you guys watch it.
I'll try and show chat.
Well, if you can find a link for it.
You posted it.
I didn't.
It's in there.
It's in the chat.
Okay.
Yeah, yep.
All right.
Oh, he's reading his death scene for context.
People are watching the stream.
I said my name.
Breaking the chains and my dragon's sentencing to die.
Jacquard's.
Drogon's fused fire on him,
but we don't watch our old friend burn.
Oh.
Instead, we see the reactions of those who knew him.
Tearing in his heart broken.
John is disturbed.
Great work sees this.
Look at her face.
They don't show that there's an extra bit too,
where he puts his arm around the actress for Brienne.
Boris was very unhappy with this.
Feels bad, man.
You can see on Amelia's face.
Yeah, she's got it worse than he does.
She shows more emotion than she did on the show.
That's sad.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Back to Matt.
Back to Bobo.
No.
There we go.
Rags just posted.
Oh, fuck.
See, I can't laugh at memes because my chat can be like,
fucking show us the meme.
It's like, all right, fine.
We're going to see the meme.
I can always describe it.
No, you can't describe that face.
They have to see it.
Stoic.
The face of abject horror.
Oh, my God.
All right.
All right.
Sorry, Matt.
Sorry.
I'm getting back to you, buddy.
Sorry.
We were distracted by something vaguely interesting.
We found Twitter posts more interesting
than your whole channel.
So yeah.
Everyone wants to put it on D&D.
They're doing the best they can to control this.
Dude, that's insulting that you said that's the best they can do.
That's pretty insulting.
Best they can do.
Like I said, it's what you say to a child.
Oh, you did your best, you know.
Good effort.
What else could you give them?
If they came out and said it wasn't that bad.
Just straight up say like, nah, we fucking didn't give shit.
We fucking hate this show.
I heard Roblai was going to talk.
What were you going to say?
Oh, I was just going to say, what else could you give them?
Like he said, they did the best with what they've got.
Like they were lacking somewhere.
Like I know we've said it, but they had millions of dollars.
A massive cast that everything they wanted.
What else?
All the time, all the money.
They needed faith.
Okay.
People didn't believe it.
The Sergeant is everywhere.
Well, we don't anymore.
No, get them away.
And I think what they've done so far.
It's pretty damn good.
What about George Armantin?
Did he do pretty good?
I'm confused now.
So he thinks it's good, but you should blame George.
Okay.
So, all right.
Okay.
So, so you're, you're praising George for how great the shows are.
I guess it's better than what everyone's given a credit for.
But anything that is credit and is negative, that's George's fault.
Yeah, I think that's it.
I have a lot of fun watching the little interactions between the characters,
the little callback moments.
People might call it fan service, but let's be fair.
Once you're in sequel territory or in a show like this,
there's a lot of callbacks, a lot of throwbacks.
That's fan service.
And there's nothing.
I wanted my fucking giant cock again.
That's my fan service.
Why is that not back, man?
I mean, hey, hey, hope is not for on the list.
Oh yeah.
Do you remember the dialogue for the first season?
Do you remember?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like completely out of context, but that's good writing.
That's good.
Not at all.
It brings about closure of storylines.
It wraps up certain things.
It certainly does wrap up storylines.
Oh yeah.
They end.
I mean, yeah.
I mean, if you just fucking just drop a fucking build it on top of them,
that does kind of like put things to bed.
I like that he said closure.
I don't think I'd describe it as closure personally.
Certainly not cathartic in a way that makes sense.
I kind of wish I had recorded my family's reaction.
When they found out job was going back to the door,
they were like, what?
What?
That's not usual.
That's his day job.
Makes no sense at all.
The first thing this is like, why would they be happy with that?
Why would the unsullied be okay with it?
It's like, I don't know.
They just are.
Yeah.
Something that they're completely, they're completely unaware of this culture,
the Western, but you know, they, they fucking, they're down.
I was saying, imagine, that's going to be my video.
Imagine explaining to an unsullied, they want to kill John,
but all the other people don't.
So you're like, we need to compromise.
And so you're like, okay, what's the compromise?
It's like, we're going to send him to castle black.
What's that?
It's a castle.
It's like, okay, but what is it?
What does he do there?
Yeah, but yeah.
And it's like, he continues, he's like, he continues his job to guarding the wall.
It's like guarding the, he lives in a castle.
Like, hasn't he lived in his castle his whole fucking life?
Like, well, no, not until he went to the wall.
Yeah, but this castle is crap.
He voluntarily went to the wall for years.
And now you're sending him to the wall as punishment.
Yeah, this is our life sentence.
This is the life sentence for lords who are a bit annoying.
That conversation, the unsullied would just be like, no,
that's not punishment at all.
That's not even close to punishment.
And he has to keep his penis?
What?
Yeah.
Even though that would generally be it.
He can use it.
He can use it whenever he wants to.
Yeah, it's little John.
Yeah, yes, it's little John Snow instead of little.
It's little Don.
It's little Don.
It looks like little John, little John Snow, little John needs a John Blow.
It definitely does some good shit.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
It does good.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Wow.
Okay.
Are you writing that down?
Yes.
I don't even, out of context, people are just going to be confused.
Oh, sorry.
What did he say?
Sorry.
It does a lot of good shit, which is not a bad thing.
Is that what he said?
Wait, this is not a bad thing.
This is good things and this is not a bad thing.
How do I, like, honestly, if I said that in Goodell,
people would be like, that was a crappy line.
It does a lot of good shit.
It was just a bad thing.
It's like, someone said this.
Actually, I don't write.
I said it.
It does a lot of good things and that's all right.
Therefore, it's good.
There's a lot of good shit, which isn't a bad thing.
It's like, by definition, yes.
What I think is going on here is, it's a twofold problem in my opinion.
One, people have certain expectations that weren't met.
So fucking tired of being told.
You expect something to be good, so you're an arse.
Yeah, you fell in love with the show because it was high quality.
Look, listen, maybe if you expected shit,
you wouldn't be disappointed all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah, I supported your expectations.
You thought it'd be good and it wasn't.
They got you.
Especially when it comes to the whole Night King situation.
And that has brought up a lot.
The Night King was the big bad of the entire show.
No, he wasn't.
No, apparently not.
Fucking post talk rascalization right there.
No, he wasn't.
He wasn't in the end.
Okay, to give you a comparison,
Iron Man dies of a cough in the beginning of Endgame.
And then you go, people thought he was going to be this big hero.
Well, he wasn't.
He just, he wasn't.
All right, okay.
Come on, Matt.
I can't even.
I can't even.
People thought Darth Vader was going to be the villain of Star Wars.
He was just a fucking janitor.
They just got false expectations.
He just had an air build drop on his head and he died, you know.
Just proper sends me to spasms.
Oh, apparently there's a layers of fear too coming out.
Oh, I need to play the first one.
I liked the first one enough,
but it's very easy to criticize the crap out of it.
Yeah, I'll still, I guess I'll still get in play.
Again, like any piece of information that's remotely of any sort of eye catching element
just boops me out of Matt's video.
Sorry about that.
I'll come back.
We're always a secondary problem.
Yes, they were a looming threat.
Yes, they had to be dealt with, but it is not the game of the road.
I love how he doesn't understand the point of the show.
It's a meme.
It's a meme on the subreddit.
It's just like this is one of the most memed arguments.
The show is called Game of Thrones.
It's not game of White Walkers.
So you didn't realize that people like you or why they thought it was a good idea about
he dealt with, but it is not the game of the Romans.
Whoever defeated the night King does not all of a sudden become the king of the North
or the king of beyond the wall.
The king in the box said that was the case.
The fucking King comes from a meeting where they just pick someone out.
Yeah, that's so fucking cool.
So interesting compared to the fight with death, literally Satan.
Jesus.
Yeah, you should be more concerned with that.
Not the fucking boring battle with death itself.
Boo land or the king of Westeros or any of the seven kingdoms.
That's not how it goes.
So that's not at all.
It's not how it goes.
It's a big bad.
Now, could they have reversed it to where they fought for the game of they fought for
the iron throne for the game of the person won the army to fight the night King.
Yeah.
And then, you know, here's the thing.
Oh, so they could do it.
I thought you said that that wasn't the case.
Yeah, it's not the point.
Almost as if whatever the case of the show is apparently how it was always going to be.
And I'm pretty sure that the story is actually called the song of ice and fire, right?
Yeah.
But the problem is that argument doesn't work for the show because they never even
say outside of that fucking book they plonk on the table at the end, which is just out of nowhere.
The book series is called a song of ice and fire because yeah, game of thrones is just
the first book.
That's when the game of thrones is at its most important.
But as the books progress, it gets less important.
Well, I mean, isn't the idea that like the ice part is the the white walkers and all
and the Daenerys is the fire part, which is why there's lots to work with there.
You could be like they're going to clash.
Maybe they end up like destroying different halves of Westeros at the same time or like
you could there's so much you could do with it.
You just go, no, one of them fucking gets pooted out by Aya and the other one goes nuts
and then gets pulled out by John.
Yeah, because I was about to say, you know, what if he thinks that they're superfluous?
What's the what is their purpose in the story?
If they just die and that's it?
Well, apparently, what they were is what he was looking for them to be.
They were just going to be a fight at one point.
That's it battle.
Yeah, we're going to be a cool fight with zombies at one point in one episode.
This is what this is the frustration we all felt is that they were meant to mean more than that.
We didn't just want we can just go watch the fucking Walking Dead if that's what you want.
I didn't even he didn't even need a huge like I was talking to Ned Roddick about this.
Like he was his pitch was like, what if the episode that they actually attack Westeros,
not just fucking Winterfell, the entire episode doesn't have any main characters.
It's all from the perspective of all the people living in the villages and the towns and finding
out about this for the first time and getting fucking wrecked by all these screaming zombies
are just running into the place and having no idea what's happening.
So you can make a really great horror episode out of it.
It could have been all about the effect on the world.
But no, it's just it's just the castle battle.
Boom, boom.
Terrible tactics.
Aya kills him.
Boom.
Game over now next.
That's the thing, right?
Like Game of Thrones, from what I understand, was meant subversive fantasy story in the sense
that it's about different aspects of fantasy that are maybe untouched and big epic battles
are not an uncommon thing in fantasy.
Like, I mean, really, like, if I want to watch a big epic battle,
except it has a good story, I can just watch Lord of the Rings.
Yeah, well, Lord of the Rings has just destroyed Game of Thrones in every aspect at this point.
That's the thing.
Lord of the Rings.
Sorry, I was going to say people compared the the Long Night to.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, man.
It's not even close.
It's not.
Helm's Deep is a fucking glory.
Like it's it's well, you know, let's put it this way.
Could you imagine if like all of the archers just jumped over the wall
and just landed in the middle of the organ?
Stab them with our arrows.
They all just get killed instantly.
It's like, well, that was stupid.
The fact that they have so much less men and so much less prep time in Helm's Deep.
And you know what they did?
Like you just said, they put their men behind the walls.
Crazy idea.
They put people outside the fortress.
And like, yeah, they wonder why they all die.
They put them outside of the fucking trench, too.
Like, why would you put them behind the trench?
Here's what happens.
Don't worry, the Trebuchets will slow them down.
What happens, right, is in like the Battle of Helm's Deep, you got like Saramon.
He just comes up and like he's about to chop off Aragorn's head
and then Frodo just out of nowhere.
How did he trust him?
I thought you were Mordor.
And then all the orcs just like drop dead.
And then Gandalf shows up.
He's like, oh, fucking hell, man.
I came from so far.
I had to cut through traffic to get here.
And you just end this without me.
Yeah.
I tell you, the red light at Menas Morgul was just that must have been there for three minutes.
Blue dragons point out as well.
If you remember, the Helm's Deep archers are firing so fast,
the lines of orcs are actually going down.
They're still charging, but they're going down, which is awesome.
In the long night, there's like fucking seven archers.
And they fire like once.
This is great, guys.
It did really good.
And you remember how, like, in the Battle of Menas Tirith,
they like had the Trebuchets not outside of the city, but in the city.
I don't know what you mean for me.
That's never happened anymore.
Omenis Tirith is a great design city because if you get because it's like in layers.
So if you breach that first layer, you still have to go through all the other layers.
Exactly.
And if you're defending it.
It's essentially like a bunch of gatehouse areas stacked on top of each other.
It's really awesome.
Yeah.
Except, you know, obviously, when the Nars
goes all epic again,
you get out, dude.
But I think I got it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, you know, the Nars go.
The Nars go.
Why are the Nars go censoring you?
They fly in and then the music rants.
They stop.
And they what?
I feel so bad.
It's like you have no idea how much we're not hearing.
It keeps cutting you on important bits.
I'm Nars go.
I got the chance of it.
You can't really play it around dragons.
It's like they had two, though.
Don't even go there.
So bad.
Everything is so bad.
I think when I watched that episode with you,
more, I was like, why don't they put obsidian like claws or something
on their dragon so they could kill the bad dragon in a single hit.
So it's established that if you even nick a zombie with a dragonglass,
even just a little touch, it'll go down.
So that dragon that they fight, all you need to do is tap it with a fucking
dragonglass arrow and he's down.
It lasts the entire episode.
It's just like, I hate the show so bad.
We sit there and say that would probably be the better course of action.
That's how I would tell the story.
But at the end of it, still, the Night King was a looming threat.
It was right there on their doorstep.
They didn't have time and Cersei was playing against them.
Yeah, there's a lot.
So Cersei is the ultimate big bad of the show.
Well, that panned out well.
You just described the events of the episodes.
You didn't explain why that's the case.
Yeah, you yeah, this this video retroactively got worse and worse.
Yeah, because the big baddie isn't Cersei at all.
So the Night King just wanted to be a monster.
They could kill.
I thought it was pretty cool.
Battle for them to be a monster.
They could kill the monster.
Be a monster.
We can kill you.
Oh, man.
Gonna have a full page this time around.
It was a monster.
They could kill and thought it was pretty cool.
That's called an argument for Winterfell.
Had some technical errors, I guess.
I don't know.
I saw it just fine.
What you don't think it was a technical error.
Uh, no, you're just fine.
There we go.
Let go.
Well, the thing me and Wolf and I think rags to an extent.
I can't remember.
We all came to the conclusion like we could see it.
But there's no way I'm arguing that it was well lit.
Like I understood what happened.
Well, for every time there wasn't shaky cam.
But when you see all the comparisons and the screenshots and all the complaints.
It's just like, yeah, okay.
There's some something's wrong.
So, yeah, just yeah, I don't know.
It's fine.
My only real complaint I think was like the editing.
Only real complaints.
The only real complaint is the editing.
Got any fake complaints?
See, but ultimately the show ended in a very satisfying way.
I felt that Arya killing the Night King was done perfectly.
Perfectly.
I think they did very well.
The reason why I say that's because they had been establishing Arya as a person.
Who I want to stop him.
She's established as a person.
Who faces death.
That's true.
Looks at it square in the eye.
All right.
A lot of characters do that.
I was going to say, I don't know if he was.
He's probably not aware of this.
A lot of characters go through like fighting and dealing with death in different ways.
She says not today to the God of death, which is a Bravo see thing slash serial for L thing.
And that is just twisted into she's going to fight the Night King.
And it's like, not, but not today.
She should have said not today as she stabbed him would have been great.
She should have said, like, later today, I will face that later today.
Like, you know, like in a few minutes, I'm going to teleport.
Yeah.
The biggest hell for this not being planned whatsoever is the writers admitted that they
decided Arya would kill the Night King three years ago, which is season six, I think.
That's way late.
And they said the reason they didn't want John to do it is because everybody would expect John to do it.
Which is really great writing, by the way.
If anyone expects.
We gave everyone.
Like, you should make fucking, you know, like just go with literally like a rat or janitor to kill the Night King.
Elvis shows that it like go online is guessing that who's guessing it.
Nobody.
Night King gets a heart attack.
That would be so that common.
Did you get it?
It's a commentary in real life.
You know, you expect these big grand things to happen, but you can knocked out by health problems.
With the fell just build the tallest walls possible.
And then you have to claim it by last.
Oh, my chest is tight.
Oh, no.
Oh, what what what happens is, you know, the Night King's just.
Hit by an arrow and then like.
And then he just collapses into the ocean.
Yeah, it happened.
You get some ice spear for the dick.
This is part of why everyone's confused that he was even there.
Like, why would you risk yourself?
They hit the small one, but they didn't.
And why would you go for the people that have weapons that can defeat you,
like, instead of all of the other people on this planet that you can get a massive army
from and then swarm Winterfell?
And why go for the people who are aware of your existence as opposed to all the ones who aren't?
You know, there's just like, I thought the Night King was clever, but I was like,
oh, he's just a dumbass.
Cool.
No, he's fucking idiot.
Yeah, I'm still waiting for somebody to splice together all the scenes throughout all.
Of all the white walkers and how, you know, they all built up over, you know,
the whole series.
And then it just ends with.
They spear Sam in season two.
They don't see Sam and he's crying and they ignore him.
And it was like, why?
Why did that happen?
Do they have?
Why would they butcher humans?
Do they put them into such pretty little patterns?
Yeah, like, why?
That's fascinating.
It's like never answered.
Like, oh.
What they do with Craster's children or his sons.
Yeah, we only have to.
Oh, dude, this is a great inside the episode for season four episode, whatever that's from
where they say once everyone finds out what they're doing with these kids,
I think they're going to be shocked.
We never did.
Yeah, I don't know.
Rest in peace.
I'm shocked.
Well, this is it.
This is it.
The whole that we already, well, they already established in the books and the show that
the white walkers could communicate.
They they had a different.
Well, there was a there was a higher purpose than just lol kill humans, because if they
did, if that was all it, if that was all their agenda, as we point out, why did they not kill
Sam or Craster?
What was the benefit?
Why?
Yeah, there was.
You had to make a bit more.
There's more to him.
There's more to him.
And then you have to be nothing dead.
Yeah, it was more.
It was more than it's just the fucking, you know, they're just a plague.
I mean, does he think that the whole point was, hey,
this is fight.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
But like when it comes to like the whole.
They're not net net is not a reference in the winter.
It's not just good.
Oh, it's going to get a jacket on.
Well, dude, winter's already fucking covered.
God, in the show, I don't even want to take that apart.
It's so embarrassing for the stocks.
If you rewatch it, it's like winter is coming.
You're like, what do you mean?
That day of the year?
Yeah, there's a lot of good things.
And that's all, you know, don't kill me.
It's mask.
That's what happens with Aria.
We I'm sorry.
But why is it in America if they keep calling it Aria?
What do you mean?
This is not higher.
Yeah.
Well, it really is in the show.
They do both.
I've heard Aria, Aria and Aya.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm not bothered by any of them, really.
I think I'm pretty sure I've said all of them.
We've seen this for years.
So she says death wears many faces.
I look forward to meeting this one, which she did.
And then she killed it.
She literally killed the endless death.
She killed the long night.
That doesn't mean a little crappy makes a sound.
She killed the endless death.
It's like she did it.
How did you guys just stabbed him?
It almost sounds like she shouldn't be able to do it so easily.
She will.
Drew a knife and stabbed him and did it.
They just stabbed the endless death.
Someone on Twitter just sent like the Kit Harington reactions.
In fairness, he's he's tearing up and he's sad.
But it's not necessarily a tell that he hates the ending.
It's just a tell that he's sad that he's right.
Yeah, maybe.
You know, I wouldn't look into it too deep.
The virus one, like I said, I think is much more like
you can tell he's just pissed.
He's like, I fuck this stupid.
I mean, the clock looks like she's about to like be absorbed in the.
Yeah, I thought she was funny.
She's clearly over it by that point.
She's had like a year to deal with it.
Evil.
Go shit.
And I've dealt the worst card ever.
Kill me.
Still a thing.
But the long night was meant to be the Night King and the White Walkers
and the whites and everything else.
And that was maybe not as explained as it should have been.
But I picked up on it pretty quickly.
And so the humble brag.
He's like, you know, maybe it's a bit of a big thong for anybody.
But I don't know.
I picked it up pretty quick.
Oh, you know, it's just one of those things.
You know, the average we understand.
Smiler, by the way, your mic is really loud.
Like it's almost it's almost peaking.
Is it?
I mean, he's fine on my you just got to turn him down, right?
I did.
He's at like 40 percent, but it's like the mic is peaking almost.
I guess if you don't hear it.
I just said it's peaking.
Yeah, it's like it's getting really it's like it's at 100.
Like your mic receive is at 100 percent.
How close is your microphone now?
About a fist away.
Yeah, probably go a bit further away.
I'll just sit back like I'm in my car.
We'll try that.
And then maybe keep an eye because obviously for
sensitivity stuff to make sure that green rings coming around you
and you talk and you'll be fine.
Um, yeah, it's green.
How do you interrupt Lord Jabbo?
Still got it.
Lord.
Oh, there we go.
There we go.
Yeah.
People had their expectations set a little bit too high in that particular regard.
And that happens on these shows, because let's be fair here.
Most shows probably do need to be ended around season five.
You can establish that might be a trend,
but I don't like that.
It's just accepted.
There's like a TV shows tend to go bad by season.
It's like, they don't have to.
Why does?
Why do we say that?
Like, it's just like, oh, fuck, whatever.
Fucking everything.
Shit.
Anyway, like, well, you know, break about ended at five.
So I guess we can't talk about that from that way.
Um, what, uh, what, uh, what are the some of the most?
What was like the wire?
Like Al was season five.
It's good or bad.
No, it maintains his quality for out really.
All right.
Um, what are the names from shows?
We sort of got to get some examples going.
What's up.
Sorry.
Battle of five.
Did it come off?
No, it didn't, but our shows like go, go bad by season five.
Uh, 24 season five is C that's the best one in the season series.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's the best one.
And the one is the one that I need it on.
Uh, yeah, they should have ended at season five.
And they sort of did, but then they were like, uh, actually, no, we
do more seasons.
Let's just do it.
But yeah, that's, uh, that's one example I can think of.
Oh, South Park hasn't fallen to the season five curse.
No, I think, uh, we would agree more that supernatural should have finished the season
five.
Yeah, it should have, but again, what I'm trying to say is like,
I don't like the idea that we're like, that's typically where you should end shows.
Cause that's where the writing goes bad.
I'd be like, that's nonsense.
Like what does that mean?
Maybe that's when they should get different writers or apparently changes direction.
Like South Park is overseen by Trey Parker and Matt Stone for the whole show.
Yeah.
Trey Parker has written every episode since like season five.
But the other thing is like, you know, depending on what show we're talking about,
this is a show that has books that well past exceed like the length of like an
average TV show, obviously you don't have to adapt, you know, page for page,
but this show had Paul empty to write about.
It didn't, it's not that it ran out of ideas.
And now they're just, you know, jump in the show.
It's not that Ralph level said, telly tubbies got better.
Telly Tubbies season five was the fucking shit, dude.
I think most people agree that it's because it's rushed is the problem.
Like, yeah, even, even though they went too long,
they went too short.
Absolutely.
This whole thing has been truncated.
It's like, it's they crushed it.
And the idea that it's like, I probably should have ended earlier.
It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
God, no.
They originally want to do seven seasons.
I was like, could you imagine how this would look if they cut out another season?
She established a good set of characters, give them a beginning, a middle and an end,
have it wrap up on season five.
From there.
And I think that's probably wrap up on season five and go from there.
How, how does it wrap up and continue confused for that state?
Well, that was weird.
Take a break characters, give them a beginning, a middle and an end,
have it wrap up on season five and go from there.
And I think that's probably wrap up and go.
It's one of the problems to the eighth season.
You're dealing with short truncated seasons.
What eight episodes?
Well, what is that?
What the fuck?
Jesus Christ.
Why does he say things for season seven, six episodes for season eight?
It's like it's like he's just some talentless hack who sits in front of a webcam and talks.
He's so limited in his scope that he sees what we got as what was going to happen.
Like we had no choice, guys.
It was always going to be truncated seasons post season five with writing that wasn't as
stale.
It's like, what do you mean?
Why again?
And if I brushed it more, it would have been better.
Alchemist.
He's aware of when they do.
He's aware of previous examples happen.
Yeah.
He's still fucking this clueless.
Well, they expanded it out a little bit more to tell more of the story.
And honestly, they should have.
And which one I choose.
That has to tell us a bit longer.
Yeah.
Can you imagine him at a restaurant?
You know, it's like, all right, I want this.
And then like you deliver it.
Fuck me.
That's undercooked.
It's like, no, that's medium rare.
I said medium Jesus Christ.
Here's medium.
Fuck me.
You fucking overcooked it.
Jesus.
Well, no, it would be like if he goes to a restaurant and says, I'd like the steak and
eggs, please.
And they deliver them steak and eggs.
And he's like, well, that's what I was expecting.
So we all know he's going to all you guys.
Because this was set up.
I guess it didn't subvert my expectations at all.
It's like, oh, is that what you wanted?
Like you did exactly what was set up to happen in a way that made sense and was logical.
I want my money back.
Do you like that in the top left?
He's got his Twitter handle, which is, you know, Matt, Jumbo, M, Jumbo.
But if you read that, just the one he's like,
Jumbo, Jumbo, I think HBO wanted to start wrapping it up.
Because the cold.
Yeah.
Take as many seasons and episodes as you want.
They gave him a blank check and they fucked it up.
They want us to strangle that golden goose.
Like we want to just stop making all this money.
Please wrap it up.
I like that he thinks HBO is a blame.
No, it's George R. Martin HBO.
Oh, right.
Yeah, sorry.
It's not.
George was in league with HBO.
Of all the hills to die on as well.
Like Matt, no, save yourself.
This was too damn high.
And by the time they get to these particular series,
this this late, this late in the series.
Yeah, it's great.
I'm pretty sure that's the way actors get paid more for every season they're in, right?
That's actually a contractual thing.
So, yeah, the cost will keep going up for things.
But the ratings kept going up.
The money kept going up.
Like the idea that they're like, oh, we're gonna stop it now.
We're making not enough money to pay for the actual cost.
We're making too much money.
Assuming that like, you know, back in the day with HBO, we're like, you know,
go ahead and, you know, fund this.
They had already the five fucking books that already come out to like go,
right. So we got a bajillion characters.
We got a bajillion sets to like do.
We got we got, you know, we got a variety of locations.
You know, it's not all like filmed in the corridor way.
You know, you can green screen every day.
Come on, man.
This is not where this is not where the show went to fucking die.
It's not where they went.
This is the take to their series.
This this late this late in the game for these kind of series.
The cost is then that high.
Look at Big Bang 30, for example.
Big Bang Theory.
Why does Big Bang Theory come into this?
Where it's filmed in the most of the same place or same set every fucking time.
It's like five people.
Yeah, we're five fucking people.
Twenty seasons of Big Bang.
We're not doing that.
We are not.
How many castles did they have to build for Big Bang Theory?
Is it about zero?
Oh, wait, sorry.
I know.
I find the dragons.
Yeah, yeah.
Gods.
Oh, yeah, the Big Bang Theory.
It went downhill because it run.
Come on.
It's not like that.
I'm trying to find it on IMDB.
How many seasons does Big Bang Theory have?
I think it's now ended like just recently.
Yeah, but how many?
Twelve seasons in total.
Yeah, I thought so.
Yeah.
Can you imagine if Game of Thrones had 12 seasons?
How is he using this as an argument?
I'm confused.
Let's see how this goes.
I think the point that he's trying to make is that Big Bang Theory
is really expensive to make
because the actors get paid like a million bucks an episode.
It just keeps going up.
But again, it's not a valid argument
because HB is returning profit.
Because think about all the merchandise stuff.
Think about the stuff that you make money on beyond the show.
Exactly.
This wasn't a show where they were like,
oh, shit, we got to preserve.
The producers aren't happy with the money
or the lack of return on investment.
Yeah, if it was too expensive, they'd just cancel.
It has been the hottest shit for the last 10 years on HBO.
They're trying to bring in other shows in Westworld
and all that to be the next standard
when Game of Thrones ended.
Well, I'm still waiting on that, I guess.
And we're not even guessing.
HBO just said, make as many as you want.
It's not even a mystery that they were thinking
that it was getting too deep.
This comparison is bizarre, but let's see where he goes with it.
Look at Big Bang Theory, for example.
Big Bang Theory is one of the most expensive shows on television.
It's also the TV's number one radio call.
I'm sorry, but yeah, that's like the most...
Ever, then.
How?
Actors get paid.
Oh, no, I'm sure that the full or whatever main cast.
I'm sure they don't like...
Wasn't like Charlie Sheen on like $2 million per episode
for two and a half minutes.
Yeah, but like a lot of these actors...
Oh, sorry for...
There was more than one actor
who gets paid a million dollars per episode on that show, though.
That's the thing.
Like, I'm pretty sure the main three get paid a million an episode,
the other ones of which there are like four or five
get paid like $600,000 or $700,000 an episode, so...
But even back in the Friends days,
I think they were getting like a million bucks or something, weren't they?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But the cast of Friends, like it's not a new thing.
No, it's not.
I don't know why he's making it sound like it's a new thing.
This is common, but they clearly make enough...
The point.
Well, I'm sorry, but the agent or the producers,
whoever agreed to these fees, that's their own fucking fault.
Yeah, exactly.
They go, oh, this will tank the show for episodes of season
because you're all on such ridiculous wages.
Oh, that's George Armand's fault, anyway.
At what point does the producers go to the actors and say,
listen, we actually can't afford you to keep...
We can't afford to pay you these fucking ridiculous sums of money
for you to make mediocre comedy.
So we're going to have to tone...
Like, what about $500,000 for 20 minutes of work?
Would that be okay?
I'll tell you what.
What if he was going to die this episode?
Fuck it.
Make it a dramatic season where they'll get fucking killed
then bring it a new cast.
Do it.
Comedy has been for many, many, many years,
but all the main cast on the show
gets approximately $900,000 an episode,
and they do 21 to 23 episodes a season.
There's a lot of money at play.
And CBS would have been willing to pay them more money
to continue...
He just needed to like Google.
I'm pretty sure the stuff about how...
The stuff about HBO being okay with like anything
for the writers and shit.
Like, I'm pretty sure that was publicly available by now,
but whatever.
Doesn't matter what you spend if you make more,
and all these shows are making more than they're spending.
So I don't know where he's going.
Because of all the syndication and because of all the merchandising,
the show makes a lot of cash.
Does he realize he's talking about literally
the most profitable TV show in like history at this point?
Game of Thrones' ratings are like...
I'm pretty sure they broke records with the newest season again.
There's hardly anyone who isn't aware of Game of Thrones,
which is cool, by the way,
because it's a fantasy genre.
It's like the kind of thing that's...
It's high fantasy.
I don't know if I'd call it high fantasy at this point.
I know, but we don't argue about the genres, do we?
Point is that it's very unlikely or something like this
to be as mainstream as it is.
And it is.
You've got the ear of literally like the common people.
Sorry, I was going to say.
So I just googled, yeah.
So Anthony Hopkins got paid the nearly 200,000 episode in Westworld.
And that's, you know, so Anthony Hopkins, you know,
knighted for his contribution to film.
It's like, if HBO could pay Anthony Hopkins 200,000 an episode,
I'm pretty sure they could pay all these lesser actors a lot less.
They're all about spending money, dude.
They spent a lot of money to make a lot of money.
Spend more.
Game of Thrones pulls in a lot of cash in regards to merchandising
and Blu-ray sales and whatnot.
But not to the same level, something like, let's say...
Big Bang Theory.
Does it?
How does he know that?
He's probably right, because it doesn't really...
Lots of people watch Game of Thrones,
but Game of Thrones is highly pirated as well.
Like, number one rated show on TV,
object in terms of the numbers of people who watch it.
It's kind of like...
That's kind of sad.
Well, yeah, it is.
But the point I'm making is it probably...
Yeah, sorry.
That wasn't your point.
It probably does make more money.
Just...
I think the syndications where they make all their money,
don't they?
Because they can just repeat it over and over.
Yeah, exactly.
So there's a greater return on investment then.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, think about that this way.
How do you syndicate Game of Thrones?
You can't show the episodes out of order room.
Yeah, you can't show it every afternoon or something.
You know, the more serialized it is,
the harder it is to syndicate.
An interesting point, yes.
Yeah.
So he's...
So you have a little bit of a problem,
but it becomes more like he's saying this.
I was going to say, it's more like he's...
Yeah, yeah.
Again, again, tighten the budget,
cut in the episode short,
cut in the season short,
that's not what's going wrong.
In Plus...
You get paid for reruns.
Well, that's syndication.
Yeah.
Yeah, and they were saying it's more syndicatable
for a comedy show that can be viewed literally backwards
and it would probably work compared to Game of Thrones.
I read that I Love Lucy makes like 20 million a year as of 2012.
Probably, yeah.
Probably, that sounds about right.
Well, don't they pay 100 million
for friends on Netflix or something?
Actually, sorry.
He's highlighted that they have to end
Big Bang Theory fucking 12 seasons
because the actors are getting paid so much.
The HBO are ending at eight
because the actors are getting paid.
It's like, wouldn't HBO go even further
than the people who own Big Bang Theory?
You'd think, I don't know.
Like this, I don't understand.
Again, again, it's not the problem.
He's deflected.
It's so hard.
Plus, doesn't HBO have a different business model in general?
Characters die in Game of Thrones.
Well, you have to subscribe to HBO.
Yeah, exactly.
So their goal is to create high quality content
that incentivizes people to subscribe to HBO,
whereas Big Bang Theory is just free.
That changes your business model.
And I would say that if you want to retain people
to your network, you know how like console manufacturers
will often sell their consoles at all costs because-
Yeah, for the software sales.
Yeah, exactly.
Like does he not think that the same,
like even if Game of Thrones
is still on TV, it always still be worth going.
Oh, yeah, well, the TV rights like overseas as well.
Like, so Game of Thrones is on Sky Atlantic in the UK.
Yeah, that's mega bucks
because that is also a subscription service
that people about people in the UK have to pay for.
And the sky, I might Google it now
and see how much they pay for it.
I'm kind of interested now.
There you go.
They said that season eight costs 15 million per hour,
I think they said.
And then they still gave them an open check
to just make as much as they want.
So they were obviously getting their money back.
It obviously wasn't a problem.
Exactly.
I mean, clearly the show was making more than a-
Well, that's the thing.
We're trying to figure out whatever he's even trying to say
isn't even accurate.
What the fuck is he saying?
It's in favor of a point that like what he's saying
the show is good right now.
If you think it's bad, it's because of George
and it's only bad because it's been shortened
because of HBO.
It's the most gobbled collection of points.
Like much of it is wrong.
So from April of 2019, not only is Game of Thrones
the most watched show in HBO history,
the Game of Thrones franchise is also worth over $1 billion
dollars, commanding nearly 30 million viewers per episode
in the United States alone, according to the New Year.
Let's highlight the fact that it's public knowledge
that each episode costs an average of 15 million to create.
So a season like this one.
That's lit a season, isn't it?
That's what we're talking about.
So this season, let's say it was six episodes, 15 million.
So we got 15 million per hour and an hour and a half.
So it said per episode from what I searched.
But I saw per hour.
But OK, let's just be generous and say 200 million.
Let's be generous.
Take 200 billion.
That's still less than the profits.
If we had to clarify this with Warner Brothers.
Time Warner was probably looming on the horizon
and there's also going to be a lot of slashes
and cutbacks and things like that.
So it's possible that might have played a part in it.
Oh, pause it real quick.
I was just looking at a few things.
Bigger budget seemed to be the norm
by the beginning of the last seasons.
The sixth season had a budget of 100 million dollars
for 10 episodes.
So pretty because when you look at all the crew,
the extras, gravel, horses, stunt performers,
camera crews, the time it takes.
Apparently, did you say gravel gravel?
Yes.
Like the materials to make the sets is insane.
I wanted Chad said cost 15 million per episode.
That's why they had to cut the good writers.
It's the same writers, the same guy.
You know, like, could you imagine if he said,
I mean, look at Avengers, you know, 15 million dollars.
They got to pay.
They got to pay like Robert Downey Jr.
They just need to wrap it up.
You know, they just need to wrap up Avengers
because it costs too much money to pay all these actors.
Just cancel Avengers.
Well, this is the thing.
Game of Thrones regularly kills major cast members.
So like it probably is able to generate new characters.
Kill off old.
Like, you know, if this season had killed Cersei and Jorah
and they kept Jorah this long because there's the thing
called the high QI rating or whatever it is
where people are watching for the.
This is why Braun is still in the show,
even though he's got no purpose.
And he's got like three scenes in the newest season.
It's because he makes money.
He puts bums in seats.
People like to see this guy.
It's like he's been in it since season one.
So imagine how much he costs.
So imagine what I'm saying here is he clearly is worth putting in,
even though he costs a shit ton of money
because otherwise he wouldn't be there.
Some of this some of the stuff in this article is really interesting.
According to a 2014 TMZ report, Cersei's walk of shame
cost fifty thousand dollars a day for four days.
In an effort to keep the scene under wraps,
the producers hired over two hundred security guards
and threatened potential leakers with a two hundred fifty thousand dollar lawsuit.
And when it talks about location,
Northern Ireland's screen agency has invested eighteen point
three million so far in the show.
And the result, the agency says, is that Game of Thrones alone
has brought more than two hundred twenty four million dollars to the area
in the form of filming expenses, tourism and more.
Yeah.
And we're just scratching.
We're scratching to see if his father's always.
But he's just like HBO didn't want him to give you a chance.
He'll explain.
Now, another reason, and this is my big point here,
why I think the conversation has turned from positive to negative
is more about the fact that it's well, it's profitable.
Because it's not profitable to pay.
It's not profitable or anything to praise.
No, no, you can't get the news from saying something is good.
Nope.
Such a shame.
See, he's taking a bullet here.
He's saying this is good and he knows no one will view this.
And get a lot of money in the process.
This is showing a lot about how he makes videos
and how he chooses what to make videos on.
Yeah. And what they focus on.
Well, the other the guy we covered previously,
he was like people making a lot of money off reviews for capital.
It's like, what do you mean?
Why did people are watching?
None of us sit at home and go,
what the fuck is going on in this show?
I've got to talk about it.
Yeah, no, that never happens.
This hugely popular show.
I'm going to I'm going to get clicks by saying it's shit.
And then somehow everyone agreed with me.
You know, you got like that in Scrooge McDuck
in his pool of gold coins going through your head.
And this is the thing.
Don't get me wrong.
There are people out there who probably did jump on the train.
People like I remember I was talking.
I think I was talking to Rags about it,
but like WatchMojo put out like a why season eight of Game of Thrones sucks.
And it's got like 70 percent up and 30 percent down.
It's like, how did they manage to pull that off?
They must be they've probably jumped on the bandwagon.
They have terrible arguments.
Like the new season is bad because it's not enough screen time for Daenerys
or something like that.
And you'll be like, that's not why it's bad.
Okay, you're not good at this.
And you can tell they don't they don't have genuine reasons for that video.
Game of Thrones is a disaster.
Oh, my God.
You might get a couple hundred thousand views
because people are remember when you used to give views, Matt.
What do you remember the good old days like literally the days.
And we've seen this in other fandoms.
It gets to a point with a lot of fandoms to where ultimately
the quality is not what some people have wanted it to be.
The storylines change.
Things become different.
And then it becomes a vocal port of a fandom.
A vocal port.
A vocal port.
A vocal port of a fandom.
Is that she covering the skip and he lives in there.
I just don't take that.
He's in his backyard right now.
If that fell down behind him, it just be his lawn.
Or you just have a homeless kitchen.
Yeah, he can't afford a lot of it.
It's a kitchen he's working in.
There's dishes piling up that he's meant to be cleaning.
Gordon Ramsay comes in.
What the fuck are you doing?
It's to cover up the rest of the room that he's in.
Jarbo, you know, this shit doesn't make any money.
Stop wasting your time.
You've got to.
You got to hate on it.
You've got a child to feed.
Stop with your YouTube fantasy and make some money for the family.
It's Daud in the background trying to get his life straight.
Like, come on, dude.
Listen, Matt.
I know you've been through some rough times.
Almost all of it because of your own doing.
But listen.
I'm really kind of yelling about something.
And not everything is necessary to yell about.
In regards to, let's say, Star Wars.
Legacy characters in the middle of a franchise being absolutely mistreated
is something to say about.
Oh, oh, I guess that doesn't apply to Game of Thrones.
Yep.
Doesn't count here.
That that's not a thing that happens in Game of Thrones.
Guys here getting to the end of the game.
Not so much because a lot of them are still at play.
And they're going to be at play.
We're on them later.
We haven't gotten to them yet.
He hasn't seen episode five and six yet.
So the thing is, he has Daenerys's picture there
for the whole for the whole video so far.
She's just staring at him in abject horror and confusion.
Expressionless.
I've heard, by the way, that he's he apparently enjoyed the whole season as well.
So maybe he thinks this aged well in the next episode when we get to the final end of it.
And we end the final.
A lot of people are going to die.
They're going to give them their conclusions.
They're not going to, you know, be blown up on a rock
or be fading out to whatever the hell on a rock.
Oh, he's making fun of Luke Skywalker, I guess.
Him fading on a rock wasn't the problem.
That's not like.
Yeah, that's why him dying wasn't the issue.
That was something that, you know, that was that was unusual.
Pulled himself back into a coma.
Look, that's bad writing.
Here.
The pin drops so we can establish it.
We can.
Yeah, they all do this, though.
They'll randomly call it bad.
They'll be like, what do you mean?
I mean, I don't like it.
So many characters.
I thought it was bad.
It's not bad.
I thought it.
Green that you have to account for.
And not everyone is going to have a lot of screen time.
How many lines of dialogue has various had this season so far?
We're four episodes in and various has maybe had ten.
Is this an argument people are making?
Don't argument.
I would make the amount of dialogue versus the quality of his dialogue.
You have too much dialogue, Matt.
How about that?
Right.
I mean, we've seen this happen with like the Harry Potter franchise
when they removed Peeves from the equation.
Peeves was a big part of the first four books, at least when they were at Hogwarts.
I'm sorry.
How would what does that have to do with virus in Game of Thrones?
Yeah, I can't even remember who Peeves.
Oh, the poltergeist, right?
No, that's no.
Yeah.
Peeves was like the poltergeist guy, right?
Oh, sorry.
I skipped it again.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm going to look at it.
Google images.
I'm sure chat.
I'm sure channel because I can't remember.
Peeves.
So was he in right?
Peeves the poltergeist, right?
Yes, you're right.
All right.
Yeah.
Well, I'm clarifying.
I just wanted to see what he looked like.
He was a Frankster ghost.
I thought I remember.
Yeah.
Was your name like one film?
What is the thing if if virus wasn't in the TV show whatsoever,
and then you were complaining like he's not in the latest season.
That's bad.
I'd be like, yeah, but he never was.
Point being like, I'm assuming Peeves was just not as important in the in the film version.
I can't I can't remember if he was.
He's already he does one or two things in the box like that might like,
you know, trigger the event or you know,
I'm the super fan.
Oh, yeah, I.
Yeah, I barely remember.
Apparently Peeves was a huge part of the rebellion against.
Yeah, the one character that they nearly cut up then.
The fucking the house elf that lived in.
Dobby.
No, not Dobby.
No, not the.
Oh, the the the grumpy ass one.
He lived he lived on in.
Serious Blacks.
Yeah, I'm like, yeah, yeah.
That is how I know.
Cren.
What was his name?
Cruncher or something like that.
Crub.
I can't remember.
Yeah, I can't remember either.
It's been so long since I've read these books.
But yeah, he's the one because he's the one who knows.
Creature, creature.
Is he because he knows half blood princes or whatever?
Yeah, creature.
Something like that.
Oh, apparently he's not even in the the movies at all.
He was going to be, but he got cut out.
Peeves.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, look, look.
I was always saying this at all.
Yeah, it doesn't matter.
The always making.
Carl's Rogo, the grumpy elf.
Yeah, it's not it's not relevant.
It's not relevant.
All right, then.
To navigate.
Yeah, this is what about it and put them in places and tell a story.
This is an adaptation.
Adaptations are never fully going to give you everything you want.
But I think.
I don't know who you just counted by saying that.
Is it anyone out there say that anyone?
Everyone say an adaptation will give you everything you want.
I would be I thought it was like an unspoken rule that obviously
adaptations can't have everything a source material, especially a book,
can give you like this is a book that takes dozens of hours to read.
We're going to give you a version 90 minutes.
I just I just get tired of people making the safest arguments ever.
Like you shouldn't kill people when they don't want to die.
You're like, all right.
To come at it from the best possible perspective on everything is probably for the best.
I think coming at it and looking at what they're attempting to do
that is going to be close enough to the source material that they can get
while still telling a company that sounds like a broken sentence to me.
No, not for my day back below this poor boy is probably for the.
He's trying his best.
You can't criticize him.
He's doing his best at what they're attempting to do.
That is going to be close enough to the source material that they can get
while still telling a company that's a broken.
It's pretty broken.
There is no source material at the end.
Yeah, he's already established that as well.
I think there's no source material, which is why it's George's fault.
Yeah, I have now been really convinced that it is better than I thought.
Yeah, good job, Matt.
I mean, if you don't agree, it's probably a sexism or racism.
He's not very good at speaking, is he?
He just like he can't string together a sentence that makes sense.
That's your opinion.
Are you saying that his are you saying that his words are very jarbled?
Are they jarbled?
Oh, don't follow movies.
Don't follow development or production.
I haven't been lived in this like I do.
Maybe don't always get that.
And that's not their fault.
I went to film school.
I've worked in Hollywood.
What a fucking trick.
Really?
If you've never heard an argument against film school, this video is the one he needs to see.
Now, I went to film school.
I know how things go.
I'm educated.
I was taught by the finest cinematic scholars in all the universities across the land.
Thank God.
That's the substitute argument.
Ooh, good stuff.
You peasants couldn't possibly understand the fine art of filmmaking.
You sound like the fucking Jim Sterling character.
Maja man.
It wasn't the artist.
Yeah.
But I've worked on, you know, some films and some web series and some other projects.
So I know the process.
And so maybe that's how I'm coming at it a little bit differently.
Oh, fuck you.
A lot that goes into these kind of shows that I feel is amazing.
The set design, the special effects.
I mean, we're looking at dragons on a screen.
Well, wonder now, remember that I can remember that all of this,
all of this is like lost.
If you convert, you know, a good story would be one that you could convert to a book
that would still work.
Now, that means that you lose the special effects and the set design.
All of that's good work.
All of that's important to the like the show.
But the story is divorced from all that.
Well, to be fair, I think Matt is coming out of the right angle
because he's coming out the same way as D&D.
And they got they got a show runner position.
So they do what they were talking about.
I mean, they went to film school, too, presumably.
So, yeah, yeah, he's right.
And fucking he's right in with their gang.
Us plebs sitting here hating on media for views.
What would we know?
Nothing.
Nothing at all.
Blowing shit up.
All right.
The Dragon Fire scene from season six finale was freaking amazing.
Taking out the high septum.
I mean, it was cool.
The high septum.
The high septum.
It's the septum.
Wait, no, I said the septum is the little divot on the top of your lip.
Yeah, I was going to say, that's what he just said.
He they took the high divot on the top of your lip.
Wait, you know, I'll be fair to him.
Let's listen to that again.
Does he say high septum?
Because again, for people who don't know, a septum is what it's supposed to be.
Septum is the cartilage in the nose between your nostrils.
That's your septum.
All right. The Dragon Fire scene from season six is for now.
Is he talking about snot sickles?
Taking out the high septum.
I mean, he's wrong, too.
He's talking about taking out the high septum.
That's the high sparrow and it wasn't dragon fires.
Wildfire.
What the fuck?
A septum sparrow.
The themes are there.
Oh, man, the high septum.
We didn't get a game of thrones, but this.
I feel like I've got a bit of a code.
It must be this icy septum.
If only there was a way to warm my icy septum.
The high septum.
There's a lot you can draw from that.
It was cool.
They've done a lot of great things with it.
I just wish people would look at it more from the perspective of,
this is a show I'm watching because I want to enjoy it.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
He's rolling out all of the fucking standard arguments, man.
Like, I hate these ones.
It's like, yeah.
I just love that he's confirmed, basically,
that he didn't read the books or watch the show.
Sorry.
I mean, he apparently knew there was dragons,
so you have to hand him that.
I'll take that away from him.
He saw the jangling keys, guys.
He just may have missed the writing.
Oh, there was dragons.
Dragon characters through the mud.
Watching me because I want to find ways to shit on it.
And I think if more people came at it from more of a positive mindset, fuck you.
I know.
It's like, oh my god, stop assuming I want to hate things.
I'm just describing what I'm seeing on the screen.
I think if you came at it with a negative attitude,
Matt, you'd be able to see what reality looks like.
I don't know about that.
I think their perspective of it would be changed a little bit.
But the problem with it is, though, it's so easy to spread negativity throughout.
Oh, don't forget, guys.
He did he did what?
He did write a book on dealing with negativity on the internet.
Oh, yes.
I thought it was I thought he did a book on like how to increase your social media presence or whatever.
Imagine reading the book written by Matt Java on how to increase your social media presence.
I'm about to read the book of the author's surname.
All right. All right.
So it's on Amazon.
The name of the name of the book is called.
All right, take a breath.
Here we go.
No bullshit social media marketing tips and tricks on how to create and sustain a solid
online presence on Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest and Google Plus for the entertainment
industry.
So I really know it's a challenge and Google Plus doesn't exist anymore.
Yeah, we have we have a five star review.
Professor Jarbo takes an extreme stance on the controversial Jewish question.
Here's a good one.
Here's a good one.
One of the reviews.
Matt, remember that Spongebob episode where they did the talent and showing a chance.
No talent.
It's good word.
That's you.
You can't make a good book.
You can't make a good book.
Just give up.
Oh, look at this one.
So many typos and cut and paste jobs.
It makes me sick.
This guy must be from Nigeria.
Major typos on the back.
Matt, remember that Spongebob episode?
Yeah.
This book may be the most clear and concise analysis of the Jewish question ever written
by comparison by comparison.
Kevin McDonald's book, The Culture of Critique seems as if it was written by a pro-Israel
Zionist neo-con.
Although extremely detailed, Professor Jarbo's constant use of anti-Semitic
slurs did seem excessive at times, and his proposal to nuke Israel out of existence so
that this time they'll stay gone was admittedly a bit unsettling to read.
Some people in chat have been saying that we should be concerned that he might flag
this dream.
It's like, do you understand if he did that?
How about like, oh Jesus, like Matt's reputation is so in the dirt.
But if he did that, like, I don't think he would be that stupid, but hey, he could.
I wish I could give this zero stars.
The author doesn't need advice.
I haven't read the product, but I doubt there is a chapter about making up a story of a
master troll who 18 months flags the content of anybody criticizing you, while in reality
you just set up Google alerts to allow you to know when any content about you gets released
so you can flag it in the hopes of cleaning up the internet.
We've got a one star.
You shouldn't be writing a book when the first title says how social media sites might used
might you.
How social media sites might used.
Is that seriously what it says?
Like, what the fuck?
Yeah, apparently.
It's this is pretty interesting.
Wow.
This book is fantastic.
Granted, I was in a bad place when I read it by bad.
I mean, I but by me by bad, I mean a really hard place looking for boulders with my kids.
Anyway, this book will give you all the tips you need that will make you a successful internet
pro like Matt.
I had to reread the chapter about flagging people who talk crap on you on YouTube multiple
times.
Very riveting stuff.
There was even even a chapter about how to handle interviews when other people grill
you about lying.
I'll give you the spark note summary.
Deny, deny, play the victim and talk about thoughts of suicide.
All right, we only got a minute of Matt left.
Let's see what goes.
And and you start looking for things to hate.
You start looking for things to critique.
You start looking for things to dunk on.
And then that overall becomes a conversation.
And conversations are good.
Actual criticism and nuance.
Actual nuance.
I like these actual real new ones is my favorite one, because every time someone says new,
it's like they're retarded.
And they're the exact opposite of nuance.
It's just funny to me.
You know, it's like the young totes.
Oh, wait, we want to have a nuance.
Yeah, check nuance.
That's a good one.
He's racist.
Whatever else gets lost, because people then just realize, oh, I can sit here for 20 minutes
and just bitch about this show.
And whereas now being mad and not write a script and just say bullshit.
And he said not adding value to the conversation.
Like, what does this add?
What do you what do you mean?
Value?
Is this objective now or subject?
Just they're not talking about the things you want to talk about?
This is what I mean.
It's so tough to actually figure out what these people say.
If they don't, you know, separate the two conversations easily.
It's like, what are you saying that you don't want them to talk about it
because you don't like them talking about it that way?
Is that your point?
Because I don't care.
And he slid into his crap of just like hating other YouTubers.
Like it's meant to be Game of Thrones is better than you think.
He's not talking about the show anymore.
He's talking about what other YouTubers like he's just disregarding anyone else.
Like the whole the whole public hate this show.
Like everyone you're ready to hate it.
They're not trying to get clicks or trying to, you know,
fit in by hating on something, being a hater.
They just don't like the show.
No, everyone on the street who hates it.
They're practicing for their up and coming YouTube career.
Exactly.
Yeah.
He's just slipped into his normal jealousy of other YouTubers.
That's really what he's saying.
You can like Game of Thrones.
You cannot like Game of Thrones.
That's entirely fine.
I personally find it to be very enjoyable.
I personally find it to be a lot of fun to watch.
I personally find it to be an experience that I'm sad to have.
That's coming to a close.
So he enjoys it.
He finds it fun.
He likes it.
He doesn't want it to stop.
But it is.
All right.
And he should have stopped at season five.
Hooray.
I'm just glad we got to know those three facts.
They're important.
I look forward to picking up my box set on like 4K when it comes out.
And I look forward to seeing what else comes out from the series in regards to the prequels.
I also want George R.R. Martin to pull his head out of his ass and finish the goddamn
Yeah, just don't.
Don't go there.
Don't tell.
Yeah.
You don't give a shit how bad those writers fucking adapt.
Read the books yourself.
Don't go on that platitude.
Fuck off.
Get your head out of your ass, George.
Please.
The books can get that closure.
Because they were denied that closure.
So, so, Matt, Matt, we can't hear you.
Anyway, your thoughts.
So, like, you know how you said that people are just being negative.
They could be negative to get more.
Matt, you're just criticizing the books and George R.R. Martin,
because you're a negative piece of shit and you want money.
And that's absolutely true, Matt, because I said so.
But I'm, I'm, I'm good at arguing.
Matt, I make compelling strong arguments.
I talk about sanctums and, and odds.
Septums.
Septums.
Sorry.
Septums.
The grand septum.
I have the grand septum of all.
Claim is an argument, right?
To your opinions.
Let me know.
There's a, there's one time in Godel two where I just randomly laugh.
It's not even, it's just a thing.
And I find that some people might not get it.
It's just like, these people do this shit.
They just randomly laugh in their own videos.
Like, we're having a good time.
Now I have to have a random laugh in episode three.
Thanks to you, Matt.
Thanks to you.
Make sure you slap your five.
I'll talk to you guys later.
Have a great day and peace out.
All right.
Goodbye, Matt.
Yeah.
All right.
What a faggot.
Wait, why has it got a video called the truth about this freaking guy?
Oh, freaking guy.
The truth about this freaking guy.
He's talking about the, he's talking about the backstory.
Hey, what's going on?
Hey, what's going on?
My name is Matt Jarbo.
This is three buck theater.
Let's see how long we can last with this one.
I'm curious.
Hey, what's going on, everyone?
My name is Matt Jarbo.
Oh, no.
No, no.
Oh, yes, we are.
What's going on, everyone?
My name is Matt Jarbo.
This is three buck theater.
And yes, we're going to be talking about.
I will once again, but not.
He's got another Star Wars shirt on.
This is two in a row.
He had Boba Fett.
Now it's just said Star Wars on it.
That's all.
I also like his logo for three buck theater.
It's just a complete breach of color because he's just using the Star Wars font.
You can't put that on a T-shirt.
All right.
Yeah.
Well, the thing is, he knows he's so irrelevant in the nobody that they wouldn't.
Brie Larson or any of the controversy surrounding the film.
It's boring.
But more about the controversy surrounding a new clip that was released and how it's
having one hell of an impact on a lot of people who have been criticizing Captain Marvel.
When you attack the dawn, you should expect people to react very violently.
That's absolute total massacre.
Yes.
Actions in the clip.
But it's really interesting when you look at who is the other actor in it
and potentially why this clip was not released theatrically.
We can't expect Dawn to do all the work, please.
So if you've seen what I'm talking about here, you know that it's this clip right here where
she's trying to use.
I don't know how Maggie's donuts go.
Here comes this guy on the motorcycle.
Greater Los Angeles.
He tells her to smile.
She's like, oh, there he is.
I'm not going to do it.
But he's friends.
He'll be giving it a go right here.
This is, well, Robert Kaczynski.
Kaczynski.
I tried to say that wrong, right?
He's maybe restart the video.
No, just rumor.
No, he's been in a lot of things.
He was in Warcraft.
He was in a show.
Both of his parents are Jewish at Comic Con.
He's actually really funny guy.
And you probably asked, which is fine, by the way, what the hell does that have to do
with the price of tea in China?
How is this controversial at all?
Well, Kaczynski here was absolutely 100% tied to the Chris Hardwick scandal from last summer,
where AMC suspended Chris Hardwick after his ex-girlfriend made allegations of abuse.
You might be asking yourself once again, how is he associated with this particular story?
Well, Chloe Dykstra is the ex-girlfriend in question, who is the one who labeled Chris
Hardwick as an abuser.
She metude him, got him suspended, and she had published a Medium post that was unpublished.
Sorry, I want to clarify that it was an unpublished Medium post that was only supposed
to go to a handful of friends, and that was going to be it.
Except her boyfriend, who is Robert Kaczynski, is the one who tweeted it out last year,
saying, please take the time to read this.
It concerns a person I love the most in the world, the bravest I know.
Please learn from it and understand how easy it is to end up here.
And this is the tweet that went viral with, well, 2.4,000 retweets, 8.7,000 likes.
But this is pretty much what kicked it off.
He published this post on Twitter as a way to draw awareness to this previously unpublished
Medium post that was only meant to go out to a handful of people.
This wasn't an attack on Chris Hardwick whatsoever.
This wasn't, you know, an orchestrated way to make something go viral in the era of Me Too.
You know, it was just the beautiful boyfriend.
Can you get to it, you cowzanus?
Although he followed that.
I was going to say, do you want to move on?
I'm so bored.
I'm so bored.
Oh, man.
I'm just all right.
He was talking about the dog that he couldn't stay entertaining.
Like, I don't even know how we got to this.
This is way more entertaining, actually.
Sorry, Matt.
See you around, dude.
16 clues from Game of Thrones that foreshadow Arya's big moment.
This is going to be really fun because you don't need to see the show to see how stupid this video is.
So let's go.
Let's make it worse.
It's not how people fight.
That's totally how people fight.
This never even happened.
That happened, though.
It's one of those, did I really see that, TV moments in Season 8, Episode 3?
Yes, fucking retarded.
Yeah, I think that's safe.
He never takes that knife thing on his back.
That thing on his back looks weird, but yeah, actually,
I guess they have to CGI it once it actually gets on screen.
See Arya jumping towards Night King and stabbing him in the heart with a Valerian steel dagger.
Showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss
claim that they have known for years that she would be the one to kill the Night King.
But you might not have spotted all the clues that they put in other episodes.
Yeah, because it's retarded.
We're going to break it down for you.
Oh, please.
Plus, for the start in Season 1, Episode 1, Arya is introduced to us as a force to be reckoned with.
While her brother Bran is set up to not be a great warrior,
Arya comes in with a sneak attack and hits the target.
A sneak attack and hits the target?
No, she was just...
That was it.
That was one.
That's not a sneak attack.
So for context, in the scene, Brad is learning how to fire arrows and she's supposed to be
sewing and she comes out of the sewing room to fire an arrow at the target and she nails it.
This is just showing that Arya doesn't like knitting slash sewing and enjoys
training for archery shit.
She's not a conventional woman in this type of area.
Call to get a sneak attack is like, what?
But okay, good start. We got one.
So two, Arya is bestowed with her first weapon, Needle, by Jon.
Jon surprises...
Stick him with the pointy end.
This line is repeated in The Long Night.
Wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
That's it! That's number two!
Oh, um...
Because the episode involves shitty dialogue.
That's bullshit.
So stick him with the pointy end, which is what you do with knives.
Yes.
Uh, I...
This foreshadowing that the knife will be used to kill the Night King later.
Yes.
Yeah.
This is not a joke.
This video is...
Can you imagine?
Can you imagine if Jon said,
shove it up your ass, and then she did?
This video was unironically said to me to prove I was an idiot about my assessment of episode three.
They were like, you didn't see the connections.
It's like, okay, let's go through.
So this is number three.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
Oh, Christ, no.
Coining the phrase,
what do we say to the god of death?
Not today.
Which again was repeated in The Long Night.
Okay.
Ironically, in her first lesson with him,
he throws a sword towards her, which he fails to catch.
Tomorrow you will catch him.
He?
The cat's poor dad...
Yeah, I was going to say, did she just describe Arya as a he?
In The Long Night.
First off, that's Virginia.
Ironically, in her first lesson with him,
he throws a sword towards her, which he fails to catch.
Yeah, she's the...
She fails a catch.
Whoops.
Tomorrow you will catch it.
The cat's poor dagger's journey through the seasons
is actually a clue in itself.
Wait, sorry.
That was a point.
That was a point.
She made a point.
We're under number four now?
No, no, go over.
Ironically, in her first lesson with him,
he throws a sword towards her, which he fails to catch.
Tomorrow you will catch it.
The cat...
That was a point.
Oh, that was a...
Oh, that was a foreshadow that she's going to play the Night King.
She can't catch it.
She can't catch a stick.
How did she go later?
No, she didn't catch it, but at the end,
she caught the one that she dropped and stabbed him.
Oh yeah, so I want to clarify,
I believe I sent a clip of this before to Rags when I found...
Well, when I was shown this video,
and I said that this woman sounds like CJ if he was pitched up.
And someone in chat just said,
apparently they played it on the Great British Podcast for that as well.
Because I sent it to CJ and I said that she sounds like you, but a girl.
The voices are almost the same, but yeah, it's great.
You should compare them all.
Actually, everyone in chat...
Oh, let me see.
Remember how...
Well, I mean, this is an accent, right?
So remember how CJ sounds and just picture it.
This is him, but pitched up.
This poor dagger's journey through the seasons is actually a clue in itself.
It makes an early appearance in season one.
A mysterious assassin tries to murder Bran with it,
but Catelyn Stark protects him.
So Catelyn takes it to King's Landing where she shows it Littlefinger.
He frames Tyrion, which then turns into the War of the Five Kings.
Ned Stark has it, then loses it to Littlefinger when he betrays him,
leaves Ned Stark's death with then sent Arya on her long journey
to becoming a badass assassin.
Only for Littlefinger to give it back to Bran
at the same location it was first introduced.
This is for you.
In season seven, episode one...
That's not a point!
But what's the reason?
You're just like, here's where this dagger goes.
But what's...
What's the...
What's the reason?
You know how, like, when you're writing a report
and then you, like, cite your source, but then you make an...
No, it's like when you write a report
and you're like 300 words short of the minimum
and you have to make up bullshit
to get to your maximum word,
it's to the minimum word allotment that you need to pass.
That's what, like, number four was.
And number three...
And all of them were.
According to chat, they all agreed that it doesn't sound like CJ.
I literally sent it to CJ.
I've got logs where he said, yeah, that does sound like me.
So, like...
That's how CJ hears himself.
But, uh, no, it's seriously, it's like one for one,
the accent CJ's got.
And it's not, like, not something that's offensive, don't worry.
You can say it's your girl's vision of accents, it's fine.
Yeah, sounds like it.
That exact dagger shows up in one of the books
that Sam is reading in the Citadel in Old Town.
Okay.
Find out how to defeat the Army of the Dead and the Night King.
Stab him with dragon glass.
Stop it!
Why is that?
How are these points?
Yeah, so because the dagger existed before it was used,
that's foreshadowing.
That's foreshadowing for how I was gonna use it.
That ironically being referred to as foreshadowing, like...
It's still the wink.
Either these were all, like, oh yeah, that's a...
I don't know, it's not fucking character development
or build-up or anything.
It's fucking...
So what was this point here?
In Season 7, Episode 1, that exact dagger shows up in one of the books
that Sam is reading in the Citadel in Old Town
to find out how to defeat the Army of the Dead and the Night King.
That's it.
Sam read it in a book.
I mean, that's probably the best point out of all of these,
is that he was reading about the Night King
and he found a picture of the dagger.
Yeah, he was reading about Chekhov's...
But the problem is that the dagger itself is just Valyrian steel.
It's actually a pretty big coincidence
it happens to be the same fucking dagger
that they actually use.
It's not the only dagger that can beat him.
In fact, dragon glass can probably beat him.
Well, if he'd just fallen on the dagger and died,
would have that done?
I think so, yeah.
Do we need any good story?
Like, as long as it's a dagger?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
All right, so this is the big one.
This is the one that even the showrunners referenced.
Now, make a note of how Melisandre says this.
Now, what do you think she's referring to when she's saying this?
There's a lot of...
All different types of eyes.
Oh, yeah, all kinds of people.
You're gonna kill all kinds of people.
Now, the showrunners have retconned it into meaning
brown is the phrase, green is something, we don't even know,
and blue is specifically about dead people.
That one probably should have stood out a bit more.
Well, when they redo the line,
which I don't think is in this video, but hopefully it is,
she says to Aya, remember what I told you?
You're gonna close all kinds of eyes.
Brown eyes, green eyes, blue eyes.
And it's like, oh, that's much more significant now.
You kind of changed the lines as you lost that, but okay.
Eyes, you'll shut forever.
You should stab people.
This is the prompt Melisandre uses again in season four, episode three,
to send her over to the weirwood tree.
No, don't show it.
She didn't show it, never mind.
Okay, point seven.
Four, Aya picks up a few tips from the Hound.
In their travels across Westeros.
Wait, did she say point number four?
That didn't happen, did it?
In season four, Aya picks up a few tips from the Hound.
In their travels across Westeros,
he teaches her to look for weak spots in armor,
and also how to stab someone in the heart.
Okay, one, he does not teach you to look for weak spots in the armor.
He teaches her that armor deflects fucking knives and swords.
Yeah, I saw, that's a scene that I saw.
Which, if anything, counters what she does with the knight,
can she stabs him in his armor?
For some reason, he has like a big open slot in it.
Two, what do you mean, teaches her to stab people in the heart?
Why did this guy just let her stab him?
Oh, she got the drop, I say she got the drop on him.
He was mouthing off to her,
and then she just went, oh, fuck you, poke, and he died.
Yeah, but this is the thing.
The idea that she needed to be taught,
going for the heart would be a significant point.
If I jot told her, point them at the point you had.
Foreshadowing for killing the knight.
Jot told her.
No, so I guess their point here relies on the fact
that they had to retroactively create a gap in his armor for her to stab.
That, and the fact that she apparently
needed to be taught to stab people in the heart, I don't know.
Bran has a vision where he experiences
the creation of the Night King by the children of the forest.
What we now know is the Night King gets stabbed in the chest by a drag-and-gloss dagger.
It's under a similar looking weirwood tree that he would meet his demise,
again being pierced in the chest.
That, yeah, that, that, I'll give her that's more interesting than anything she said.
It's like, okay.
It's a coincidence, I guess.
Basically, the killer thing, point it with the, well, stab his vital organ.
Arya sneaks up on Jon Snow in exactly the same place where she kills the Night King.
He says, how did you sneak up on me?
Well, you weren't surrounded by a fucking army for starters, so that made it a little easier.
I'm surprised he even asked that question.
It's like, she could have just walked here and, yeah.
I thought, like, you're really loud on Snow if you walk slowly, I don't know.
Episode 4.
Bran gives Arya the dagger that he in turn was given by Littlefinger.
The Littlefinger scene had seemed a bit random at the time,
and he turns it over to her saying, I don't want it.
It's a testament to Isaac William Hempstead's portrayal of Bran
that without realising its significance, he has a wistful and kind of knowing look on his face,
as if giving the dagger some significance.
So she split up the journey of the dagger going from A to B to C to D.
That's one point.
And then D to E to F is another point, you know?
Also, it's like, what is he going to do with it?
I don't want it.
Fucking Jon says, though.
Goddamn time.
Once Bran gives the dagger to Arya,
it's extremely visible on her belt throughout the next episodes.
It's extremely visible?
Because she wears it on her belt?
It's extremely visible.
This is an interesting combat thing, keeping your sword behind you.
Well, why would you want it in front?
Well, wouldn't Brienne just smack her sword out of the way
because she's way stronger and has a much heavier weapon?
Too fast.
Just like, oop.
That's not how combat works.
You think the same drop move that she did with the Night King?
That's, yeah, that's not foreshadowing, though.
That is a skill she's learned and uses it again.
But Brienne still has the advantage
because she can move her hand forward,
but Arya's extended her hand as far as she can.
Brienne wins that because she has the longer weapon
and she can stab down.
Arya can't move her dagger any further forward
without going into the sword.
No.
Okay.
Oh, no, I got it.
Make Arya be amazing.
I got you.
She's amazing.
She's the best.
She's the best.
I get it.
She's amazing.
Who's the best?
Characters die protecting Arya,
almost as if saving her life is a main objective.
So Beric Dondarrion and Serio Forel.
Then we come to season eight.
Okay.
Wait, what was, I'm sorry.
What was the point?
People die for her,
so it's foreshadowing that she's going to kill the Night King.
Well, Serio Forel totally wasn't just like,
well, I'm defending this child
because I'm from Braavos and I'm not a complete bastard.
Yeah.
This show doesn't have many people dying in fairness.
There's only like one or two.
He read the, yeah, he read the cliff notes of season eight.
He knew from season one what was going to happen.
That's what, yeah, yeah.
But this, this season's going to kill foreshadowing as a,
it'll be, it'll have the same fate as subverting expectations.
Ectic Arya.
Almost as if saving her life is a main objective.
She's actually a character.
So Beric Dondarrion and Serio Forel.
Then we come to season eight, episode three itself.
The Hound has a seemingly distracting breakdown during the episode,
saying to Ser Beric,
We're fighting death.
I can't beat death.
His reply is to point to Arya and say, tell her that.
Arya also repeats.
That's a point.
Oh, oh, that's a, oh, okay.
We can't beat death.
Tell her that.
And then she beats the Iceman because he's like that.
So it's just a Thor Ragnarok moment, is it?
I know, I know you can't, but I key can't.
Yeah.
Moves during the episodes that we've seen her do in previous fights.
Her first encounter with a wight mimics her season six training
with the Faceless Men, stopping the staff in the same position.
What?
How was that foreshadowing for her killing the Night King?
How was that?
No, that's just parrying a blow.
They recycled a move and therefore that's the foreshadow.
Fuck off.
It would be obvious that Arya was being built up for something special.
Throughout the show, she's gone through a lot of training.
It was never really clear what this training would be for.
I want she's been killing loads of people.
What the fuck?
Right, right.
Because, again, because nobody seems to pay attention,
Arya wanted to be a knight.
She pestered her dad all the time.
I want to be a knight.
I want to be a knight.
And guess what?
Instead of teaching her how to ride a fucking pony, Ned Stark went,
oh, you know what?
Well, we'll get you a sword.
We'll get you the finest sword technique trainer in the fucking Westeros.
That's why it wasn't because, oh, I want to be the one that kills Night King Daddy.
It wasn't that.
It fucking wasn't that.
Get your story straight, you fucking clueless idiot.
People are like, what about her list?
Isn't that the entire reason she wants to be able to kill people?
Fuck the list.
Who needs a list?
It's fine.
Yeah.
And then after herself and her family were very wrongly mistreated,
just to put it briefly, she wanted to kill a lot of people.
It had nothing to do with the Night King.
She never cared a shit about him.
She didn't know anything about it.
It's nothing to do with the Night King.
It's not foreshadowing.
Other than killing people on her list,
we now know that it was to save the Seven Kingdoms from its most dangerous attacks.
Yeah, she knew it the whole time.
She knew it.
This will save the Seven Kingdoms.
That was a life quest given to her when she reached level five assassin.
Fuck off.
So selfless.
16 clues that's considered.
And you know all this video, I'll link it in chat so you guys can check it out.
It's pretty well received.
Like, the like ratio is too bad.
It's retarded.
Oh man, when I click on this now, it'll be sick and I...
You got a couple of top comments that are just, you know,
along with the ride, but some of them are like,
Jesus Christ, you can just ride it.
You can do anything for a video, can't you?
Yeah, 1.1 million views, guys, for that video.
Top card.
I don't think you guys know what foreshadowing is.
I just do a video of, yeah, top 20 times the white walkers were foreshadowed.
They're gonna suck and just include a scene from every scene or every episode, rather.
What about the foreshadowing for Jon that led to nothing?
People say like, if Jon...
It just started with a conclusion and just going backwards to find bits that may fit in.
But there was all this other foreshadowing that did nothing.
Well, if he had killed him, or if Danny had done it, or if Barak had done it,
or if Stannis had done it, they'd just be making the same fucking video.
And they'd be like, Stannis was handed this sword in this episode.
Next one, you'd be like, that's not...
This sword existed.
There was a Night King.
That was some foreshadowing.
There was a Night King in other episodes.
And then...
Game of Thrones!
My God, the writing's brilliant.
This is a good comment.
They missed number 17, where Arya being in the show was a clue that she would be the one to do it.
About one second briefly before the video stopped.
I have no faith.
Yeah, so this is a video that's talking about episode three's backlash,
and it wants to explain to us how the darkness was genius.
We might not watch it all, because I don't want to...
Like the editing?
The fact that it was dark.
Oh.
So we'll see how long we go.
Wasn't it a legit fuck up, though?
No, I think the director of photography said that he knows how it works,
and that everyone's TV settings are wrong.
Yeah, he blamed the entire world's TV.
Okay.
All right.
In season eight, episode three is one of the most exceptional pieces of cinematography I've
seen from a TV show.
I don't typically take entire videos to go over one episode of anything.
So the idea already is that it's one of the most exceptional pieces of cinematography is
like there's a couple of great shots, but a fucking ton of that episode is shaky cam
getting cut quickly.
Like, I don't really have much appreciation for that.
And cut away right before something happens.
Also that, yeah.
Lots of that.
I usually prefer to do an analysis that covers a series as a whole,
which we've done with Game of Thrones in the past.
Or I like to take a deep dive into a specific...
His voice is a bit cartoony.
Or I like to take a deep dive for Game of Thrones, the genius of duckies.
Why John Snow?
I don't like to judge people too early, but I'm already hiding.
The voice is too...
Like I said, it's a cartoon to me.
I don't like to generalize.
He used to be on Cartoon Network and he used to be like a teacher.
That's annoying.
Bill, you were late to class today.
The new show airing at 10 a.m. on Saturday morning.
But this episode is an exception because it's a unique and masterful
example in how to craft a cinematic map.
It just...
Well, let's hear his arguments.
A battle from beginning to end.
It also, in many ways, is the culmination of Game of Thrones in one episode.
All the way from season one, episode one,
we've known the battle with the White Walkers was coming.
So in many ways, this is the battle of the entire show.
Is he using Doc Saul's music?
He is, yeah.
Oh, big brain.
The question which film better understood how to entrance a viewer
and continually keep them engaged in the plot and battle.
Isn't this a big screen?
I also am referring to Game of Thrones as a film because the episode itself was only
10 minutes shy of a feature-length film.
But when you take into account the previous two episodes of the season,
season eight is essentially being broken into two three and a half hour movies
comprised of the first three episodes and the last three.
The pacing...
That's how you would split six, yeah.
So BoJack Horseman, you know, in reality,
up into the number of episodes I've arbitrarily decided in the movies.
The only argument I'd agree with that he has is just how badly segregated it actually is,
where everybody's talking about the Night King and then he dies and then he's forgotten.
Everyone's talking about Cersei and then she dies and it's almost,
you know what I mean?
Like, it's very like, almost like they did plan it as two stories.
Is that a compliment, though?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
To Spence' excitement plot,
everything was built up during the first two episodes for this epic climactic experience.
And we're going to go through just how the writers and directors took the impossible task
of telling about 20 different characters' stories at the same time.
And failing at 20 is quite a different...
Is that impossible?
Is that impossible anyway?
I thought even...
But that's not even true!
Like, there's hardly...
There's like one story.
Maybe two.
Like, the fucking dragons versus the castle fight.
To be like, oh, we got individual stories all running at the same time.
It's like, everyone's just fucking yelling and swishing.
And then Arya goes for a melgia solid fucking scene, other than that.
Cohesive episode throughout a chaotic narrative focused on battle.
Christ.
Well, the voice...
Man.
Before we begin this-
I'm going for the advertised Squarespace.
This entire video is spoiler heavy.
Do not watch if you haven't seen the episode and are planning to.
The episode opens on Sam's hands, shaking from fear.
Opening on Sam is perfect for setting the mood of this episode.
He's by far the most consistently scared and seemingly-
No, he's not!
That's not true at all!
He's not true.
Even I know that.
Even Rags though.
Even I know.
Even I know that.
Before we go over the little hump that he's a coward.
Before we go over that.
The most...
I hate the idea.
They fucked up Sam, man.
They fucked him up.
What is development?
What is growing?
The battle.
We follow Sam through a claustrophobic hallway,
symbolizing just how trapped they are.
Like flies and spiders.
Okay, that's what-
No, I mean, that's just Castle Black.
It's kind of built that way too.
I like that he had the analogy for what trapped is like.
It's like a fly and a spider web.
Yeah, thanks for the graphic.
I would never have got that out of place.
Well, us mere humans wouldn't know what it's like to be trapped anyway.
People aren't moving all around him.
There's frantic energy and the background sounds are low.
Almost moans mixed with subtle wardrobes.
Without a single word being said, we already know our setting-
Man, he's just going all out on the dark souls of music and-
Yeah, this is some classic grade C video essaying right here, you know?
That is some extrapolation.
You just got like-
Everything about this, the way he's talking,
what words he's using, how he's presenting the argument.
This is so classic video essay.
This is the reason I started doing YouTube.
These kinds of videos drove me insane.
You're not saying anything.
If there's an open field or on a boat on the ocean,
then there would be some thematic, symbolic representation of something
that you could pull from the setting that would lend to something that you wanted it to say.
Yeah, exactly.
It's just a complete mess.
I like he says, without a word being said,
we know there's about to be a battle.
No, we've talked about this battle for these-
The past two episodes of all the prep for this war, so yeah, okay.
On the horizon, everyone is fearful.
Morale is low, confusion high.
No one is sure they'll last the night.
Yeah, that scene is-
Not with these tactics.
Not with you.
Yeah, would you imagine he's like,
in Saving Private Ryan, you know, they're all scared.
They don't know if they're gonna-
Yeah, fucking no shit.
Like, it's a battle.
And sorry, Jack.
If it was the opposite-
If the video's too dark, I can't do shit about it.
Genuinely, a lot of people who reviewed this episode, like, made a joke at the beginning,
like, I'm gonna fix it.
They turn up the brightness and fix the contrast, and they're like,
yeah, okay, let's just actually keep it like this, unironically.
It's like, this makes the review clearer.
Tyrion, and again, to Bran.
Notice how early on we aren't seeing any of the fighters.
No Jon, no Dany, no Jorah-
Literally just saw Theon.
Like, and he's the last defense.
He's the most significant fighter in this entire area.
Isn't Night's Watts the Sam?
Isn't he like the-
Well, he's on the front line, so arguably, yes.
I don't know if he is a fighter then.
Yeah, even whilst being a Myser, rather, not a Myser.
Fucking, nobody even knows.
Like, he keeps swapping between professions.
But yeah, you just saw the Ironborn with the cast-doc lady taking the primary objective
to defend him.
It's like, no warriors.
It's like, okay.
All right.
If you don't count the ones you showed, there are no warriors shown.
No one is sure they'll last the night.
The scene is then transferred to Tyrion, and again, to Bran.
Notice how early on, we aren't seeing any of the fighters.
No Jon.
And all the warriors behind them.
They're showing us the people-
And all the people with weapons.
Fucking Arya Stark, the one in the previous video that we were told has been trading her whole life.
Battle.
Giving us the feeling of those who have to rely on a small army to stop a wave of death.
Yeah, I hope they use those troops appropriately.
It's okay, all of the innocent people, the ones that cannot be used in warfare,
have been put in the crypt against the people who raised the dead.
I have a question.
Can the army go around these guys?
Or do they have to go through Winterfell?
They could go around them, yeah.
Oh, okay.
But they establish in the episode that the Night King wants Bran more than anything.
Okay, all right.
That's just the way it works.
I don't know why.
It goes through, you know?
Oh, they give a reason why.
They say that Bran is the memory of man.
He has all of the memories.
That's so cute.
That's so adorable.
That's precious.
I mean, they'll get to him anyway, you know, as they go through the castle.
They could literally just surround the castle and not attack, and then just wait them out.
That's like the what-up of, oh, he's the MacGuffin.
That's so cute.
...is placed upon the audience that we see the men ready for battle on the walls of the castle.
Not on the walls, not on the walls.
...to the forefront.
We feel unease, uncertainty.
Not so much helplessness.
It's the equivalent.
We're showing all the soldiers.
We feel unease.
Uncertainty.
Not so much helplessness.
But something else.
It's just like, what the fuck are you doing?
Talk to me like a human.
...trying to fight a tsunami.
We've done all we can to prepare...
No, we haven't at all.
No, you...
Not even close.
You haven't done close, no.
But, I mean, if it is a tsunami, then...
...of the plan is to run at it.
Guys, when a tsunami's coming at you, just charge it.
It'll never think that you're gonna do that.
Poke it with spears.
Subvert the tsunami's expectations.
...is inevitable.
At this point, we're only four minutes into the hour and 20-minute episode...
...and yet the show has already set out to end in two different years.
It's got two different...
...tempered and helpless.
Helpless isn't...
...to be helplessness.
What is this fighter's non-fighter's thing?
He just said we didn't even see the fighters we saw, are ya?
I guess the odd doesn't count as a fighter.
Reflect their moods throughout the episode.
It's at this point I want to stop and analyze why they did this.
Obviously they...
The fuck am I looking at?
What was that weird wipe effect for?
What the hell is this?
Why did you...
You guys paused at 3.25, that's where I'm at.
You guys paused at 3.25, that's where I'm at right now.
This nonsense on my screen.
This is a question.
Why did you look at Sansa's face?
She looks like a dude.
It looks like a really bad Instagram filter, but...
What?
Jon's face?
Mood.
Was it really that scary?
It's like a bearded lady.
This is such a what the fuck moment, like why?
Did you pay your editor to the point where he's like...
Question marks!
Do you pay your editor to buy like layers of things happening?
Have important characters in each group, but more importantly,
the director understood the difficulty of pacing in a battle.
The director understood the pacing of the battle.
I can't believe he unironically talks like that.
Like they understood that it would be an issue?
Or like the concept?
Do you reckon anybody talks like that normally or might be in a dick right now?
Like no, he doesn't talk.
No, when he goes to the one, he doesn't go to the pub or out in public with anyone ever,
which he doesn't.
He doesn't talk like this with his friends is what you're saying.
I feel like George, shut the fuck up.
Like, why do you have to talk like this all the time?
Why do I like a beer, please?
Announce the voice.
It's just Tism voice to me.
A little 80 minute episode of only violence would get boring after about 10 minutes.
Battle is exciting and engaging, but showing it for too long dampens its effect.
The fight is really shitty.
I like that relative to him.
I actually don't agree with that.
I don't agree with it either.
Saving Private Ryan isn't like the Omaha Beach land.
30, 35 minutes.
You could, and the whole time you're hooked.
In fact, I would argue that if it wrapped up in 10 minutes,
it would have been worse for it.
This is the complicated part of it.
Let's just assume they actually didn't do this the stupid way.
And we had a full castle with a huge moat after that.
Your army after that.
All of the trenches that are massive, deep, and all ready to be set on fire.
But that's just the, let's say your castle's overflowing with men.
And so that's why they're behind the trench there.
And the trenches are, sorry, the trebuchets are inside the castle as well.
So first layer is the dead getting over the trenches and everything like that.
That whole scene is like stages.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
As long as we understand this progression,
if you just show someone slashing at a zombie 10 times per 10 minutes for an hour,
yeah, that's going to be boring.
But if I see like Helm's Deep, there were there were steps.
You had the initial approach.
You had the archers.
You had them running up to the wall, the ladders.
You had the exploding of the deep.
Yeah, you had the fires of Orthanc blowing up the wall, the deeping wall.
You had the fallback to the keep.
You know, then you had Gandalf's Charge at the end.
There were these stages.
There was a progression.
Things were happening in the logical, you know, they broke the wall.
So that means we fall back and we form a defensive position here now.
No, they have a plan.
Things are happening logically.
Like the idea that two characters talking can't go on for longer than 10 minutes.
So you'll be bored.
I'd be like, no, it depends on what they're saying.
It depends on what's happening.
Like why why are we making arbitrary rules to make no sense?
Part of any battle episode.
It's the dialogue and plot that encompasses the fighting scenes
that make an episode exceptional.
So in this case, the characters that.
That encompasses the fighting scenes.
That doesn't.
Correct sense.
Weird salad.
I think it's not.
You see what I mean?
It's like, they're like, oh, look at the way that I talk.
Ain't I interesting?
Mark funny.
And then it's like, but the words you're saying don't make sense in conjunction.
What does he mean by encompassed?
The dialogue is on either end of the fight.
And that's what makes the fight.
Reply.
Reply.
Reply this shit.
The fight itself is the least important part of any battle episode.
It's the dialogue and plot that is so wrong on so many levels.
Yeah.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
Compass is the fight.
Fucking Ammon Hen.
It's not the dialogue that I love about Ammon Hen.
It's the fucking fighting.
Wrong.
Scenes that make an episode exceptional.
So in this case, the characters that are not fighting are just as.
Like, he's, he almost, he's almost correct, but he gets it wrong.
He's highlighting the characters that do fight.
These two get knives that start attacking.
You know, why does Battle of Ammon Hen, the reason why it is bested in the fates of the
characters, which is attributable to the stuff that came before the battle,
but the battle itself in the present moment is the important part.
Yeah.
Basically, Borderline contradicts himself with this line because at the beginning,
he praised this episode for being essentially a masterpiece of cinematography.
What does that have to do with dialogue and plot?
You know, when Thanos stabbed Iron Man in Infinity War,
nobody really cared because we're waiting for the dialogue to really encompass that moment.
Because remember, guys, action is never the most important part of a story.
Action is never more important than dialogue.
Yeah, this is what I mean.
This is just garbage.
I don't even want to continue.
This is what I mean.
This is the quintess.
Tonaldism is just, is hilarious, right?
And then the one we just covered with the 16 things.
That's like a Quachmojo style thing.
And then Monday Matt, that's a vlogger that is trying to do reactions to articles and stuff.
You got all these different formats.
This is the fucking video essay format that I despise.
I almost hate it more than the others because the others are just incompetent.
But this is like, I am very intelligent.
You're like, I don't believe you.
Yeah, then you have to say smart things.
And apply everything he's saying to Fury Road, which is like, yeah, yeah.
None of this applies.
Because it's all now when they say witness me, that's the dialogue that encompasses.
Think about the raid redemption or something.
What's going on there?
Like an old boy.
Do you find each other in the whole whole way?
It's like, yes, this is awesome.
Oh, every like if there was people want us to slow.
You see, it's the it's the unspoken dialogue that he's referring to.
Maybe he should have said that, you know,
we're going to slow him for a little bit just to see how it goes.
People like slow and old.
More important to making this episode exceptional than the one.
It's like everyone should hate this.
I can't find it.
Lines.
It's a give and take between chaotic, fighting, intense, waiting.
It's chaotic, fighting, intense, waiting.
Really?
A tense scene that led to nothing.
Like, it was like they were both going to be about to die.
And then the next scene, they're still just creeping around.
They end up fighting.
Don't even apply.
I guess I guess he's like the the moments before they fight.
Just love Ted's waiting.
Like, that sounds pretty excited.
Keeps the viewer engaged throughout the episode.
Oh, yeah, I was super engaged when I watched it.
I got shown this shit.
Oh, it was really engaging.
This is highlighted the absurdity of his voice right now.
Is and gives the battle scenes, meaning without ever feeling still or overdone.
The entire first section of the episode is very dark.
So dark that people were complaining about it heavily saying this.
He's in a strike.
He sounds drunk as fuck doesn't he?
It's too dark like my soul.
So everybody so just if you thought it was to all the people who complained,
it was too dark.
The fact that it was like a meme that came out that it was too dark.
Just fuck them.
They're wrong.
They're so I didn't think it was too dark.
But if someone says too dark, I'm like, yeah, I see why you think that.
It's just a joke.
I'm sure it's just fine.
Too dark.
I disagree.
It's dark before the battle, but that's the entire point.
So you're not even disagreeing.
You agree that it was dark then.
So he agrees it was too dark.
Yeah, but he's going to say why it being too dark is a good thing.
Oh, okay.
This mass pit of blackness beyond Winterfell.
Mass the hits of blackness.
Such such the boat.
Literally not.
It's not a pit.
It's it's in front of what I mean.
He was just down.
He was like, well, what is the most dark pits a dog pit of blackness?
No, that's not dude rewrite.
Entire night.
King's army is a mast in those shadows.
We're looking on good reason to charge into it of despair.
Fact about shadows.
Night is not shadow.
It's night.
It's literally not a shadow.
Not enough shadows without light.
Well, it's just like, what do you know?
I don't know what to say to this.
What he was like is like, oh, it's so shadow.
That's a synonym, right?
And it's like, no, it's not a synonym.
Black and shadow are not necessarily the same thing.
Yes, they are.
And you're a racist is supposed to destroy all hope and not being able to see what is
coming makes the despair grow.
It's the fear of the unknown.
It allows the mind to run.
Okay, so we know what they are.
We've already seen them.
They're very large.
And the idea I think we talked about this before, but I was going to say like genuine
take now, ignoring the fucking meme that is this video.
If you had like the entire dark area and you could only see the front line of
zombies ever.
You only ever see the front line.
So you're like, oh my God, there could be millions of them out there.
We will never know how terrifying or what is that scary?
Or is it scarier to have it all lit up enough that you can see the entire landscape and
it's just filled with zombies.
There's no gap whichever way it needs to be is the way that it is.
It's always done amazing.
What do you think is creepy?
Well, I set it up to see better.
You know, why didn't they try to work to improve visibility?
Well, he's saying that that makes it scarier if you don't.
Right, but but surely from the perspective of these people in the world,
less scary would be better.
So maybe they should just set up a bunch of bonfires out in the field.
Oh, I see what you mean.
He's saying if he's saying that the point is to make people scared and people are
complaining because they can't fucking see.
I mean, obviously being afraid was it what was on their minds.
It was I can't say the episode.
And once yeah, yeah, which was a very fair point.
You can't get scared if you can't fucking understand what you're seeing.
Well, I mean, I say that ironically, when your lovecraft is based on what I mean,
I literally am talking about you can't understand this.
The colors on your screen.
You're like, I don't know what's happening right now.
And the scariest things any other example you can think of a movement in the dark,
like a bit of a glimpse of something like he just blackness.
It means nothing.
It's not applicable to these zombies because we know exactly what they are.
We've seen them a million times.
Hardhome was actually scarier than this scene.
It was very well lit.
This is what I mean, like, I just I just want to pitch to this guy
that having the landscape lit up even with bonfires whenever,
but just seeing an endless horde coming out of the forest that are really like a mile back
and they just don't stop coming out from there.
So and it's just like they filled the entire battlefield.
How terrifying is that?
As opposed to maybe they filled the battlefield.
We don't know because it's too dark.
You remember the scene in the grave where like fire and you could see the eyes of the wolves.
Yes.
Like, oh, very scary.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, like, I'm sick of people going like, oh, people are scared of the unknown.
I'm so brave.
Like, well, the good example is see, because I'm an agnostic and I'm embracing the unknown.
I'm better than you.
It's like, it's just sort of view of like, oh, the unknown areas.
Like, maybe not.
You know, like, like, for example, if I were walking into a field
and I was like, maybe there's a grizzly bear in the forest.
And like, opposed to that, I know with certainty that a grizzly bear exists.
Or it seems right in front of me.
Which one do you think would honestly be more scary?
Yeah, this is the thing.
I think they're applying like, you know, like alien, for example,
only seeing parts of it is terrifying.
So we still don't even understand what this creature is or what it wants.
Right.
But but if we couldn't see it, like, you know, yeah, we need to see it.
I just think this is a scenario where what he's talking about just doesn't apply.
But rags is people in chat referencing the fact that if you can't see it,
you can't fear it, right?
Oh, God.
Fucking hell.
That that movie.
Oh, yes.
And while we never see the entire Night's King army at once,
all we know is that it's unstoppable.
Never showing it, hiding it in the blackness creates.
And they've already showed us several times to spend several seasons now.
Season two is the fifth time we saw the army.
Yeah, they know what.
Measurable strength, a surreal field season two pans out.
I like that he says unmeasurable strength.
Like, no, it's very measurable.
They have units.
We could definitely measure it of death and hopelessness.
That wouldn't have worked properly had we been able to see the entire army.
Yes.
It would have every other episode they have done this.
Yeah.
You know how the Minas Tirith battle and the return of the king,
one of the parts that makes it so grim and daunting for the defenders
is the fact that they could see this massive, huge army,
all of it in the daytime parked in front of the castle.
I'm going to try and I'm looking for an image on Google images right now,
just to give you guys an idea of why what he's talking about is bullshit.
Obviously put it on screen.
Wow.
The link's all fucked.
I really hate Google sometimes.
It's like, why can't you just give me a non-tism link, you know?
You all need.
There we go.
This is season, I want to say the end of season seven.
That's when they're crossing through the wall.
And as you can tell from that view, it's almost like they're ants.
Because there's just so fucking many of them.
You know, it looks like a lot.
And so this is the thing.
The source of them is still coming in, right?
That's just the beginning of them crossing the wall.
So if you pack them all into a really like a dark place,
not a super well-lit place, but well enough to see them.
How terrifying is it that there's that many?
But no, he's like, no, it's scarier if you only see the front line of them.
It's like,
Yeah, because the thing is, if it's unknown, you know,
there's no room for interpretation when you see it.
Feel dead people coming towards you.
If we can't calculate the intensity of it, it's that much scarier.
The complete darkness also gives us the idea that light.
Fuck off.
Hope.
The light means hope.
Light means hope.
Did you guys know little light means hope?
Fire of dragon's breath.
The fires of the castle.
Light is for the living.
It breaks the blackness.
It gives us hope.
Light gives us hope.
Like I would actually stop watching this if you guys wanted
because I'm just so tired of his voice.
I'm done.
It's grinding my brain so hard.
Oh, it's the most.
It's the most basic bitch commentary that's wrong.
Well, see, I feel like this is maybe he feels this way.
Maybe not.
But I don't think you would have mounted any more defenses of Game of Thrones
after the episode three because you know, like how Matt was pointing out
how there are people who will jump on sort of the hate train or the love train
either way because they want to capitalize.
Like watch Mojo totally channels that will do that.
But you have to guess sometimes.
So it's like everyone's going mad about this new episode of a really good show.
Now, are they is it unfounded?
Are they wrong or are they right?
So we got to guess guys got to go with one choice.
It's like, let's go with it.
Be good.
They do it like, oh, fuck.
Like I reckon that this is the kind of channel that probably could have
jumped on either one.
But he was like, oh, or it's genuine either way.
It's genuinely bad.
But yeah, I think it's time to jump into the super chats
because I just realized we need up to five hours.
Good boy.
Holy Monjoleum.
You don't you know, I don't know.
I don't want to make anyone stay for any longer than they would like to.
So obviously just well, you know, I can't.
You get one.
It's quite like cats and Z's.
I see.
Yes, but thanks for having me on.
Absolutely.
Do you want to plug either one of or both your channels for a moment?
Oh, yeah, right.
I started a podcast now.
Both Rags and Waller have been on it.
It's called Cosmoronic.
Just search it and then watch it and then subscribe to it.
And then give me all your shekels.
All right.
See you later, everyone.
A link in chat and in the description.
Okay, we'll see you later.
I'm going to take off too.
Well, since you were the the guest of honesty,
do you want to give yourself a big old plug?
Talk about how great your channel is.
Do it.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, it's the greatest.
I mean, behind malls and rags and everyone else.
No, it's Robot Head.
It's, yeah, try and make fun of some of these movies.
I'm working on a Game of Thrones one at the moment.
Hopefully, I'll have it out this week.
Yeah, come and check it out.
And hopefully, you might learn something and laugh along the way.
Or you'll just hear an Aussie swearing a bit.
So one or the other.
For the record chat, if you've been watching Efap,
you've watched some of his work already and laughed along with us.
So you should jump into it.
Sorry, I just read that wire for these podcasts so short.
They're two hours, but that's short now because of Efap.
No, but thank you for having me on.
So I keep getting people saying, when are you going to be on?
It's like, that's not up to me.
I have to be invited first.
So we finally, finally got you.
Hopefully, we crossed you off the ever growing list of like,
why haven't you got this dialed yet?
Hmm.
We're like, we're getting to it.
We're getting to it.
I swear.
Summon them into existence on your program.
That's right.
That's right.
So you've had a good time and I've loved your takes on these wonderful videos
showing us that sometimes we are sexist.
Sometimes we are hateful and bitter and that we need to grow and learn under the dawn.
I think is the better of the dawn.
That's that's what I'm taking away from tonight.
That's for sure.
So yeah, anytime.
Yeah, it was good.
Thank you for coming on, dude.
I hope you have a good rest of your day.
Enjoy that documentary that you're going to check out for.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I'm sure there'll be more to say.
Jeez.
And then there were three.
All right.
Let's see.
Man, time really flew by today.
I actually honestly was going to guess we're about three hours in and I was like,
that makes enough sense.
And I was like, Oh,
I've gone to the toilet like six times.
So only six.
Wow.
Oh, it's my weak bladder, man.
It's only twice for me.
I've not even done a singular.
I spoke up and I haven't really been drinking yet.
I was going to say I haven't drinking yet.
And, you know, but anyway, every time I every time I know I'm going to be on a stream,
I know I'm going to I'm in for the long haul.
So I want to choose.
Um, I got really I got up early for this.
So have my half asleep money.
Why?
Thank you, Adam.
Love you guys so much.
Thank you, Jake.
If you had the chance, what would you change about end game?
There's a lot I'd change about end game.
Biggest thing.
What would you guys have as biggest change to end game?
I'm thinking it's kind of ditch the time travel plot and get some in there.
I know that's just like basically I just changed the whole thing essentially.
Yeah, but I don't like the time travel and shit.
I might have been OK with it if they had adhered to their rules a little bit closer
because it feels like they a lot of shit happens.
Well, this is something that we talk about in there.
Oh, you know what?
Jay's right.
Cut out Captain Marvel.
I would actually there would be a very significant simple change.
Oh, yeah, that would give it you know, that's that's the fault.
You know, it's a plus one.
No, no Captain Marvel.
But I actually think it's a significant improvement to the film if you cut her out.
Oh, I plus two.
Because, like I said, Thor saves Iron Man instead.
So you get plenty good scenes there.
The struggle against Thanos is.
Oh, yeah, I would.
I would unfathom Thor.
I don't mind pursuing the fat Thor, but I'd want to change a lot about it.
If we have to go with that Thor.
If you're going to write a part of his arc or whatever,
I know he's like, you know, he's broken and he's given up.
Go with it instead of just like forgetting about it and then just, you know,
like, ignore it at the end.
I guess his arc is continuing.
I don't know if that's the idea.
I know.
I don't know.
A lot of orphans want a solo sequel, but nobody wants it to be called duo.
Nobody wants it to be called duo.
Also, Goliath has moved.
I like that.
This looks some deep memes all over the place with that one.
Nice.
Oh, Goliath.
That's not even a that's not it's not even a native meme.
I'm still on a meme that's native to eFap.
Yeah, I still got to get a there's like a supercut.
I'm making of all the Goliath memes in that one stream.
I'm supposed to get it out.
I've just been too busy.
Hello.
More.
Hello.
Key blitz.
Robot head.
Give me your commies.
I'm afraid he's gone.
You guys read the top down rewrite of season eight by Alice ship with
the full scripts of each episode.
There's so much better more episodes in the real thing as well.
Honestly, and I'm not saying, you know, you'd be like,
Oh, you're just doing it for the meme.
Honestly, any random writer doing a rewrite of season eight would probably
get a better result than what we got.
Just I believe it too.
Just it's like the last Jedi.
Any random rewrite.
I'll take it.
Roll the dice.
Anything new.
Wanna watch the last watch at the moment.
Such a damn shame season eight.
Yeah, I'm only 20 minutes into it.
And it's already like sad because like Jesus Christ,
the amount of work that went into season eight from the people
who did all their jobs correctly.
Such a shame.
Love everything you do.
Well, please take my buddy.
Why?
Thank you.
Um, I need to ask.
She got touched by the space stone in the Tesseract.
So why her power is not teleportation, even given the hydro weapons or plasma.
So I'll give you that.
But good God, the power is ridiculous.
Yeah, for Captain Marvel.
That's absolutely true.
It is ridiculous.
Where the fuck is the doggo?
He's here.
He's here.
Hello.
Bring it.
Let me suck on my toes, bro.
The late I had to because we started at 5 a.m.
for me.
I thought it was six.
But yeah, we started very, very early for me.
I mean, it's all good.
And I had.
Yeah, I had to do a lot of stuff yesterday.
So I was tired.
I mean, I think we had a pretty good balance despite the five man.
I think it worked out.
Yeah.
A fixed suggestion.
The power stone punch nerfed here.
I don't think they're going to do that.
But yeah, you could have done that.
Suck the power out of her.
Oh, man.
If only.
Efap Australian edition.
Half of them except half of them are British.
That's true.
And now none of them are Australian.
I'm afraid more.
And I'm I think I was the only American.
More did you end up reading my how to enjoy Captain Marvel
and end game post on our more drunk Carol head cannon is the only canon.
I did read through it and I had myself a giggle.
It was very good.
It's it's you're right.
The idea that she's gone through the whole movie drug basically
and not really getting what the fuck's even happening.
She like when she said she's going to save planets.
She just goes to a different like bar because she's like disgruntled and shit.
Save planets.
Hey, more.
Have you heard of a channel called White Light?
He makes long form videos like yours.
All hail the toxic brood.
I have not heard of him.
I'm afraid.
I'll have the toxic brood.
I five long form as well.
Smiler Al, I want you to slap me around, spit in my face,
and tell me how right my dad was about me.
Yeah, I could do that.
There you go.
Your dad was right.
I reviewed a plague tale and have some verbal flubs
while recording that required second takes.
I had an epiphany that perhaps that's what happened to tonal.
He just doesn't bother doing another take.
Absolutely.
I don't know that he notices his mistakes though.
Some of them are just so beautiful that I'm sure that's how he wanted them.
Captain Marvel is shit because women are a joke.
Game of Thrones is based because women are a joke.
They're done.
Oh, oh shit.
Have you heard?
Ryan Johnson has been brought in to do the Star Wars cinematic universe.
Let's hope he's not writing anything.
I think he will be.
And yeah, what are you going to do?
I guess if Star Wars think he's going to be the Kevin Feige of Star Wars,
I'm sure it'll be great.
Busy with Warhammer 40k stuff.
We'll watch this later.
Love you.
Take my money.
I love you.
Take my money.
Okay.
Yeah, I go.
Sorry.
English is bad for me.
Not my first language.
Totally.
Fantastic Four and Dark Phoenix are for some reason hard to pull off.
Maybe.
Maybe they've just had a selection of Goopy writers in their two incarnations.
Well, we haven't even seen the new Dark Phoenix yet.
Is that out?
Yeah.
I don't.
Oh, I don't know.
Let's have a quick chat.
I think it's definitely coming out soon.
Thanks for all you do, Molly.
Your content is the most entertaining thing I found on YouTube.
All the best.
Thank you, Simon.
Very kind of you.
Yay.
First class should have been a reboot.
I actually thought it kind of was,
but I guess they're arguing that it is always in the continuity
and that's just the young versions of the Fox original trilogy.
Danny was stabbed with an artificial blade of stabbing.
That's another wonderful reference.
So Captain Marvel deleted scene and liked that the evil man was called the Dawn,
a la Orange Man, but was triggered at the absence of a trans black character
cheering for Captain Marvel.
Literally another shower.
I guess I didn't make that connection.
The Dawn.
Donald.
That might be something they were going for.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Force Awakens part three when?
I've been empty inside.
Not for some time.
I'm still writing up my Game of Thrones videos and it'll be straight after that.
But my my thing is I'm still going to get them out before episode died.
That's that's the hope.
Yeah.
I just wanted to say Dark Felix.
It's out a week Friday for us.
Oh man.
We got that far from home and King of Monsters stuff to see.
Rags.
Did you do the drugs again?
Rags was just tied.
No, I was I woke up and I was here.
There you go.
Is this prison colony edition?
If that prison colony edition, you can't say that.
I mean, it may be true, but you know.
Australians have a sense of humor.
They can fucking take jokes, though.
Oh shit.
Yeah, we're fine.
Big old buckaroos, boys.
Those from retired old fart.
Tired old fart?
Mola, I do not want to look at this.
They got face.
Oh my goodness.
I think he was trying to say another thing.
This whole intro reminds me of when Venom came out and people kept saying,
go watch the movie and make your own opinion.
And then it got 50 billion.
50 billion?
Did it really?
Nice, I guess.
I don't know.
Like, I've never found that a review can prevent me from having my own opinion.
I guess that people are concerned about it.
Coloring your opinion.
For lack of a better term.
He looks high.
Bilbo ragons.
True.
I've not watched any of the movies such series you guys talk about.
I mostly just play video games, but even so, I love your streams.
Would like it if you talked a bit more about games.
However, kiss.
When was the last game we talked about?
I guess would be the coverage Tonald gave to DMC.
But, oh, DMC5.
But yeah, it's not necessarily that we wanted to cover Game of Thrones stuff.
It's that I've stacked up a couple of Game of Thrones videos.
And then, I guess we had the Captain Marvel one thrown in as well.
And I was just like, yeah, that works.
Because robot headed worked on a few.
Well, he's made videos on both subjects.
So is it just me?
Or does rag sound like he's either drunk or dying?
I'm dying very, very slowly.
And I'm drunking very, very quickly.
Quackly.
Also, nice to a couple of exported convicts on the podcast.
Oh, yeah, that joke's getting around.
I guess I'm proud of you guys.
It's the easy one, but it's still a good one.
Surprise.
Jew calls himself a white dude to shit on white dudes.
I don't even know.
I don't know that he was.
I think he was just he was angry.
Women hate.
That's what it was.
Jesus Christ.
This guy sounds like an actual battered wife.
Must have been adopted.
I can't say that.
Greed Spider-Batter.
Are you wearing a plague, Dr. Bask?
Green Spider-Man.
Are you wearing a plague, Dr. Mask?
What am I missing there?
Is that a reference?
Oh, Fringy's Avatar.
Fringy.
Oh, that.
Yep.
That makes complete sense.
He looks like us.
He looks like us.
Oh, yeah.
He looks like a plague doctor.
His old icon did kind of look like Green Spider-Man.
That's true.
I guess you could say that.
So, yeah, I get it.
Okay.
A woman who disliked cheese theft also sexist.
Yeah, it's internalized, unfortunately.
Obviously, they can't think for themselves.
Long man bad.
Of course, lengthy male negative.
Please stop pausing on his rapist rat face.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus, because he says things you don't like.
Isn't it funny?
No fat.
No problem.
No, I mean, I'm just going to kind of read it.
What are you going to say?
I was going to say, no rat face rapist on this podcast.
That's disgusting.
Isn't it a funny thing?
They always complain men don't show their feelings, and now that's it's a woman.
That's an ongoing problem in general.
Men kind of get told to hide their feelings.
We're probably doing better for that these days, but yeah, it's apparently
something women get told a lot according to him and partially the message of the movie.
He said something like women will be denied or at least repelled from positions because
they're too emotional and stuff like that.
Sometimes, yeah.
I was going to say, I'm not saying it doesn't happen,
but I would imagine this happens to any human.
If they're too emotional.
Yeah.
Just got home from work and saw you guys streaming.
This upgrades my day from shitty to great.
Well, there you go.
And it will be on Moolah on time today because I'm not going to sleep for a while, actually.
This has been the most reasonable efab ever for me because I basically started an hour
after I woke up.
It's like a day job for realsies this time instead of being like,
I have to get up at a ridiculous moment or something.
But I mean, you know, the late ones are always fun too.
Never know what's going to happen.
Wait.
So I was being harassed when I was told to smile for my graduation photo.
I feel oppressed.
You should have stolen his camera.
Yeah.
Also, hello to everyone.
Love the streams.
We love you too.
Spotty McBumble fuck.
That's his name.
It's not an offense.
Words cannot fully describe how much I love you guys.
Everyone's being very kind today.
He thinks it's okay to steal.
Definitely adopted.
Yeah.
Efab merch when?
Soon.
I know I keep saying soon, but soon.
Like, there's just-
You keep saying soon, they keep asking.
I was going to say, just, you know what, just assume when I say soon, I mean never,
but honestly soon.
Like, I will sort it out eventually because there's just this shit I want now.
Like, I actually want Efab related ones.
If this guy comes on, you'll be the next Major Lee.
He's welcome to come on if he wants to.
He's got some great arguments against people who dislike-
Like, I mean, my video is pretty harshly sexist.
He nailed me.
Don't mess around with a man's bike.
I'd be so broken if someone stole mine from me.
And this man's punchable face doesn't help me calm my anger.
Well, he said it's justified if you tell him to smile, so just don't tell him to smile.
Captain Woman of Peace.
Yes.
Rhinocero today lactation.
I mean, it's the core of this show.
You need to do that every day.
Hope the MCU Phase Four sets up a storyline where Carol almost executes Miles Morales,
a colored person for a crime he didn't commit.
Oh, right.
Yeah, that actually happens in the comics, right?
That would never fly on TV, though.
Well, cinema, whatever.
Who is your favorite Game of Thrones character now?
It was always Tywin and it still is Tywin.
Tywin wasn't destroyed because he got to die before they destroyed everything.
Who's your favorite, Al?
Ugh.
No, just go with the books.
Fuck the show.
That's even harder, you prick.
Yeah, but that's the fun part.
I don't know.
I'm akin to Patchface myself.
Patchface it is.
I mean, he's a wonderful man.
No, no, no.
I want to reflect that.
Don't quote me on that.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I really don't.
I imagine you're saying you like Rob Stark at some point, right?
I did.
I do actually like Rob Stark.
Um, he was well, he was my favorite Stark.
Anyway, I don't know why it's complicated.
I really like you, Ron.
I really liked.
I really like Theon as well, actually.
Yeah, come to think of it.
Theon was, uh, yeah, he was a thing.
I basically like most of the villains in the in the books.
Most of the villains, like, you know, like, I like them.
And they're my favorites.
Stannis, yeah, that's another good choice.
There's so many good choices from the books.
Yeah, yeah, Stannis the Maness, yeah.
I'm not going to stoop to his level.
I won't even tell him to smile.
Yeah, nailed it.
It's not out of character for Captain Marvel to steal.
These are things that were said in his video.
Like, read him back on these too much.
This is a defense of the film.
He's Australian.
He's Australian, so legal life has a different meaning.
I get it.
Robot head, hi.
He would have said hi back.
One hundred percent.
Sure, he would have loved it.
I've got to sleep, but here's some money.
The long man is bad and never funny.
The wolf is away and the dog rubs his sack.
Rhyming is for massives.
Is that some kind of personal attack?
Hey.
Mola, will you you will marry Rags to unite our horses?
Oh no, how is this?
Of course.
No, I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
I'm not.
Our horses will be together.
There's a blood feud between our horses.
Our horses will no longer be separated by distances.
I love the tie with beams of that.
God says you will marry my daughter.
You'll put an end to this and marry my daughter.
If he'd been on a night out with any other woman ever,
he'd know that just how he'd know how flirting works.
If they find the guy creepy, they just wave them off.
Well, yeah, but that's harassment.
It's dependent on how the person feels because like if I hit someone over their head with a
shovel and then they weren't like, don't do that.
It wouldn't be abuse of any kind.
It would just be funny.
That's mainly how it goes.
I think I'm a lawyer.
A better argument against the music in the MCU is the lack of thematic continuity.
That is individual character themes and light motifs really carry from film to film.
Absolutely agree.
There were a lot of individual soundtracks that are pretty good,
but they didn't bank on them coming back and stuff.
But then you get cringy videos online where they're like,
I fixed the music for Avengers.
And they basically play all of their theme tunes whenever they turn up on screen.
And it's just like the utter clash of nonsense.
But there's ways to have done it for sure.
The fact that Iron Man's theme doesn't carry over from one to two to three.
Like that seems like a real waste, but you know, what are you gonna do?
I would have been happy with the Black Sabbath song.
His themes had an arc.
Yes.
Hey obligatory plug.
My favorite band, The Deer Hunter.
Only people only.
Only.
Oh, Galaxy Brain.
People understand.
Love you guys.
Keep on efapping.
You like The Deer Hunter right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember I don't know if it's the same dude, but somebody plugged them.
I can't remember what stream was.
But when I was listening and then everyone was like,
I have to hear this.
I'm not here.
And I was like, I have, but I'm not here.
Also, Hey Baller, at least they try.
I'm fine with them trying.
I'm just saying it's not an improvement on the current soundtrack.
If you literally take five and just cut and paste whenever character peers.
Like that's not how it's.
Civil War battle with both original character themes.
Maybe, uh, I'd have to, it takes a lot of work.
I imagine.
Cause you know, composers are composers for a reason.
Gotta take ages to work on stuff.
And yeah, just a lot of people feel like the music blends in with itself in the MCU as a whole.
But no, it is good.
The people, people are trying to fix it.
I don't have a problem with that.
I just wish it wasn't so blatant, I guess.
I don't know.
White guys have something to offer on Captain Marvel.
No, we don't.
Hey, Mola, love your content.
It helped me to appreciate good movies with good storytelling even more.
Also, love your creative insults, ham sandwich, et cetera.
Please do more of those.
Cheers from Russia.
That was actually inspired by Alex.
It was very creative the way you called him a ham sandwich.
It was absolutely ham roll.
Yeah, the original is ham roll, but I changed it to sandwich.
Ham roll?
What's a ham roll?
It's the same thing.
You're a fucking ham roll, mate.
You need to have a word to yourself.
Yeah, I'm going to put that in the next one.
Actually, there you said it.
You need to have a word with yourself.
I'm going to say that about Jamie Laddister in his stupid fucking arc.
I just love it.
I can't remember what I got it from, but the first time I hear that, I fell in love with it.
No, it's amazing.
You need to have a word with yourself, mate.
You know, I would be fine with the stealing of the bike if it was just for transportation,
like in the other movies, but she does it out of revenge.
Yeah, that's the way it's portrayed.
If she said, like, I really need the bike and he was like, no, and they'd like punched her.
For some reason, she could be like, how dare you?
But not quite the way they did it.
I think the original is in danger.
I need your bike.
I'm sorry.
If she said something and then he went to strike her, like slap her across the face,
and then she caught his hand and then she threatened to pop his arm off,
you'd be like, oh, well, you know, she, uh, well, he did.
He just strike at her kind of thing.
But literally, hey, honey, you smile.
What a, what a bastard.
What a fucking bastard.
I think the original script had more scenes with Carol having difficulties controlling her power,
increasing that they're the only ones keeping her safe.
Too bad the film script was twatted up.
Completely, yes.
After Captain Marvel's antics in front of Ronan and then 20 plus years of her doing her thing
around the universe, how would Thanos not have known of her and have a top priority strategy
for her in 2012, 19 and 14?
Oh, because it was a retcon.
Oh yeah, because she didn't exist.
But they wrote her into existence.
You're absolutely right that they should have fucking accounted for.
But yeah, that's just how it works with this shit.
I think I would have introduced her post-Infinity War.
I just, well, post-Endgame, sorry.
Jesus Christ, like, so forced.
But I mean, it worked for the made loads of money and she's beloved by
some people out there somewhere.
Captain Marvel acts like a 15 over emotional ass throughout the whole movie.
I mean, she's snarky as fuck, but, you know, she keeps her controlled mostly, I think, maybe.
They played Come As You Are.
That's how I know the movie.
This movie is about being yourself.
Yeah, Come As You Are.
It's about owning who you are.
There you go.
That's a movie.
Done.
Just played the right song at the right time.
An unbridled autopsy.
Is Tony Trump?
He wants a suit of armor around the world, i.e. the wall.
Oh, Tony's like Trump.
He wants a suit of armor around the wall.
Love seeing you guys.
Did you see Tim Poole showing the deleted scene where Captain Marvel straight up mugs
a dude and threatens to crush his arm?
Yes, that's how I found out about this.
Yeah, start the podcast.
This guy is definitely not the Supreme Intelligence.
No.
And yeah, yeah, if you want to see us talk about that scene,
it's right at the beginning of this podcast.
You won't be able to see it now because it's probably processing,
but keep a note and you'll be able to see it.
Is the use of algorithm the Supreme Intelligence?
Technically, yes.
It's the Supreme Unintelligence.
That's such a good one, Rex, to build it.
I don't like to generalize, but I've only watched a few minutes of this stream
and I got the gist of it.
Basically, you're all massive.
It's 50 buckaroos to keep the great streams covered.
Thank you, Aylee.
That's correct, but maybe not for all the reasons you thought.
Spider-Man tortoise with...
Oh, wait, I read that one.
That was a good one.
High five.
He's actually a gay black guy, but he's albino.
Albino.
Is it albino?
Who does albino, right?
Albino.
Yeah.
Albino's, he's an Italian friend of mine.
Albino.
Yeah, that's his restaurant.
Hey, we're hungry.
We're going to go to albino.
Hey, they cook the pasta, you know, the tortellini, the greenie.
Stop appropriating culture.
Why, I speak in English.
No, speaking Italian.
From the clock, Wick Gent, if you won't like women being damsels in distress in movies,
then you are a damsel in distress.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, shit.
That logic just doesn't pad out, does it?
Like, ever.
There's like no argument that that'll work for.
After listening to the last stream, Confused Matthew did a very critical videos
on Disney's Lion King.
He really didn't like that movie.
Anyone saw it?
Wait, do you mean the original Lion King?
What do you mean the new one?
Is the new one out yet?
I know that the trailers were out, but I don't know if the...
Well, we all like the original Lion King.
I don't know many people who don't like the original Lion King.
But I mean, if he's made videos critical of them,
we could check that out sometime.
Wolf would have to be back, though, because he loves that movie.
Poor Don.
He just does his best.
It's okay, Don.
We love you, Don.
Oh, yeah.
Don the movie.
Make it happen.
Don is the real protagonist of CM.
Yep.
Hi, Rags.
I love you.
Hello.
I think highly of you as well.
This entire section needs its own video.
Well, the thing about...
Someone could make a Supercurve.
I was talking about Don, I guess, if they want to.
The legend of Don.
Mr. Stark.
I, Don, feel so good.
All praise, Lord Don.
The Don of Medea versus Captain Marvel part two.
Ooh.
Do you think Captain Marvel could possibly beat Medea plus Don?
That's not gonna happen.
No way.
Just came in here.
Just came into here because she doesn't have a dick.
It's gonna be a good stream.
Oh, yes.
Salad King.
A wonderful one.
We talk about dicks, boys.
In times of crisis, Jesus Christ asks himself,
WWDD.
What would Don do?
Yeah.
That's in the Bible.
Page three.
The legend of the Don.
Is Don the male equivalent of Medea?
Yes.
We're gonna have to talk to Wolf and Jay
about how he fits into the lore exactly, but yes.
Captain Marvel or how I learned to stop worrying
and love the Don.
Oh, if only.
Apparently she didn't.
She never quite got that Don love.
Don besmirch the Don.
Poor the Don, Saint Donatello, McQueen.
All around good guy, the goodest.
Yes to all of that.
I'm pretty sure Don was actually the most searched character
on Pornhub.
Hashtag justice for Don.
What does it mean if he was, though?
Does that mean everybody hates him or?
Everyone hates men, obviously.
I can't remember what the conclusion is on that.
I Google search when I go looking for porn.
It's always of things I hate the most.
That's just how it works.
Yeah.
It's highly sexist in general.
Rags.
Are orphans even capable of feeling love?
Capable of feeling it?
Hmm.
Maybe from other orphans only.
I think that's how it works.
It creates a very odd kind of like feedback loop.
Do they weigh eggs when you do that?
I'm pretty sure that's what happens with orphans.
No, because then the orphans children wouldn't be orphans.
Unless they would have to die.
It's complicated.
I don't think so.
I think they're just doomed to be alone.
Damn.
Objectively best stream.
Well, gosh, Don.
Because I'm just the Don.
Don forgave Jesus of his sins.
Don died from undetected cancer after his motorcycle was stolen
and reincarnated as a rat so he could save the universe at endgame.
Be like Don.
Hashtag WWDD.
Yeah.
Stand with Don, man.
He saved the world.
Don't be a Don-a-course-da-dire.
Don-a-course.
Did you guys hear that they got the Game of Thrones writer producer
from Lord of the Rings TV series?
Or the Lord of the Rings TV series.
Well, I just don't have much hope for Lord of the Rings TV series, but.
No.
Fucking up like they fuck everything up.
Everything.
Yeah, I have no face.
Monday and Matt only like season eight because John hid behind a boulder in episode three.
Y'all ready to take the black and don the cloaks?
Absolutely.
Are you ready to don the Don?
Kill me.
Imagine you have two movies of equal length, both without plot holes.
How do we measure which of these movies is the better one?
Equal length, both without plot holes.
Well, you'd have to see what kind of payoffs they are achieving.
Say if you had two guys talking about taxes in a room and there was no plot holes,
then you're golden.
But then if you had like a story like Lord of the Rings that has no plot holes
with that level of complexity.
I think we talked about this before, but it's like, what's better?
In a perfect dovetail joint or 10 perfect dovetail joints?
You'd be like, I guess the 10 is going to be much more difficult to achieve.
What happened to Don Cheadle?
Yeah, no, it's not like there's an easy answer that you have two perfect movies
that are two very different movies.
Like one sci-fi one's fantasy.
They both have great characters expand three movies.
You're like, how the fuck do you decide?
It's all contextual.
We just we just have to look at them specifically, I guess.
If the Wright brothers were transgender, they'd be the wrong sisters.
I've never heard that before.
That's probably like the most genuine laugh about this.
Betty loved the part where Danny drapes the Targaryen flag over the walls,
or maybe the part where Jon hid from the dragon behind a boulder.
So there's more than one of this.
People picked up on it, Matt.
You gotta you gotta you gotta make sure you address the boulder.
People think he's biased.
You know, he needs to account for that.
Bring a good job on April Fool's video, mate.
Bravo.
Yes.
Hey, Mueller, I feel your videos have played a part in improving my ability
to think critically, which has helped me boost my grades at school.
Here's a donation to say thank you to the toxic brood.
Yeah, it's a shame that as a result, he also hates women.
Yeah, I was going to say, if you're supporting this channel.
Yeah, a bit of a trade off, but fair enough.
Better critical thinker hates women.
I don't know.
Is there a connection there, guys?
That sounds pretty race.
I mean, sexism's can't be doing that.
Someone's gonna fucking clip that one day.
I'd be like, man, you should invite Seamus Young sometime.
His 50 chapter analysis on Mass Effect trilogy and 28 on MEA are excellent.
Very in depth and a cold look at problems.
Very long.
I really need to play the Mass Effect games if I was gonna watch that.
But yeah, long man good.
That's my take on such a thing.
The dawn that was promised.
I have a job interview in the morning, so I'll be going to sleep now.
See you next time.
Good night and good luck, Commander Pluto.
Um, is this the same with Star Wars?
Everything you liked was Lucas's ex-wife's idea.
Everything you hate is George Lucas's fault.
Oh, right.
Yeah, the idea that...
Stop blaming D&D.
It's George's fault that D&D write this way.
Is it confirmed that Dawn's backstory is now a part of EFAP lore and Mauler did they?
Yes.
Oh yeah, I was gonna say, absolutely.
And Mauler, did they used to be a fourth part to your Last Jedi review?
Where you ripped Kennedy and Johnson or did I dream it?
No, never a fourth part.
Um, but I think a lot of other people did make sort of addendums where it was like coverage of
comments that he was making, because good god Ryan Johnson likes to put his foot in his mouth.
The Tarantino saga comes to an end this year, too.
Oh, really? Is this his last film?
Is it?
I don't know.
I didn't know if that was the case, but maybe.
I recommend you try Virtual Truck Manager.
Manager game on Android and iPhone.
Fair enough.
Something like to get more involved in math or something.
Get more relatable to him.
Super Dragon Hitler was George's fault.
I stand with Dumb and Dumber.
No, don't stand with them.
Wrong person.
George R.A.P.E.D.
Oh, raped our childhood.
Wait, no, I wouldn't.
That massive shat by childhood.
No, he didn't.
It was the other guys.
A morning EFAP.
A surprise to be sure, but a welcome one.
Oh yeah, it's wonderful.
Did you guys call it?
We're going to call it EFAP Jacks.
Why would you call that?
Because.
Because you know what a flapjack is?
Yeah, so it's like EFAP Jack.
So what about people who don't eat them in the morning?
What about people who don't eat them?
Well, they don't have to.
Did you ever think that maybe that's racist?
To Jack.
And his flaps.
Maybe.
Did you guys hear that Roundhead Johnson is helping with the new D&D trilogy?
I did.
And.
No.
It'll be great.
It'll be great.
In Hardhome, does anyone remember a ton of whites dying when John killed that white walker?
It seems like a retcon in order to get rid of zombie hordes quickly.
Absolutely it was, but it was one I was willing to accept.
But then they just fucked with it anyway.
But he was definitely a retcon.
You're right.
Matt is the real Rich Evans.
No, Rich Evans is so much rich.
I assume they're referring to Hollywood star Rich Evans.
Yes.
National Treasure.
National Treasure.
Yes.
National Treasure Hollywood star Rich Evans.
And that's not even close.
Rich Evans is greater than Matt could ever even begin to hope to be.
I would argue they're almost inverses.
It's like Rich Evans is.
They're basically opposites.
It's like hating men and controlling people.
They're opposites.
It's like two entities that are competing to both make life better and worse.
I guess the yin and yang.
Dear Devil season one episode three is a scene where the protagonist perfectly
explains objectivity versus subjectivity.
Please watch it more.
Also, love you all.
I mean, me and Alex definitely watched that.
I don't remember that, but maybe it happened probably.
I don't remember that, but more context.
More context.
I might rejig my memory if I can't remember.
Have some YouTube premium money.
Why thank you.
Matt has too much bolder milk.
Also, yeah, you guys are actually streaming on a day when I'm not busy.
This is the thing.
I feel like if we stream at random different times, we'll randomly catch
people who are like, I've never been able to watch this live.
Like, yeah.
Well, it's Memorial Day here in America.
And it's a bank all day in the UK.
Well, at least in Wales and England, because Scotland has to be different.
I'm looking different.
I can tell Fringy is Aussie by the fact that his mic can't stay connected.
Classic stitch up.
Love your boys.
Keep up the good work.
I think it's his sensitivity and he can't.
It's a good position, but I think he like sort of
because every time he got it, it's been cutting out a little bit.
And I think I'm the same thing.
Every time he got close to his microphone, it wouldn't cut out at all.
So it's like, yeah, it's complicated to get it right.
You need to do the thing.
Me and rags are doing this constantly.
So just like slight changes to maximize it.
And then the other people are like, oh, I guess I'll put this on this month
compared to last month.
Yeah, I mean, like I have to physically like plug my mic back in.
Yeah, your mic is shit.
Yeah.
No, that's my old bike rags.
Yeah.
How do you?
I blow expectations.
All right.
An English teacher pal of mine.
Legit thinks TLJ and Season 8 Game of Thrones is good writing objectively.
Future is in good hands.
Yikes.
Thoughts.
I mean, I'd love to hear their arguments.
Somehow I doubt they're going to be arguing from consistency.
They're probably going to be like, it's objectively good
because it's entertaining.
Okay.
And that's all that matters.
My biggest proof of the green frogs point that a good story doesn't need good
visuals is the One Punch Man web comic.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
I mean, I would always support that anyway.
You don't have to have amazing visuals and stuff.
In Game of Thrones, the dragons don't have a saddle or bridle when people ride them.
So they're unbridled and they maul people.
I'm not endorsing conspiracy theories.
I'm just asking questions.
I get it.
I just want to know how the fuck they stay on those dragons
when they're flying around and shooting up and down.
Why they haven't installed, you know, saddles by now.
It's like, guys, maybe consider it.
Maybe.
IRLs and...
Oh, sorry.
Jabbo Flaggins.
That's definitely a way to do it.
IRLs and Nat 20 on all her sneak checks, obviously.
Yeah.
Saw a couple of frogels relatives outside my apartment last night.
It was because, in case he was looking for him,
he has relatives all around the world.
I'm sure it's very left behind.
Deputy Hoppity outside the prop.
Got the notification.
Four hours too late.
Well, four hours too late could still mean halfway through the show with some of these.
I'll save you, Jen.
I'll save you, Jen, some time.
The summary of all these points is Arya exists equals foreshadowing.
Oh, but it was so good to watch it.
It was such a bad video.
It was pretty funny.
On the previous Great British podcast,
Vox is still my joke at 1 31 27
from the previous Game of Thrones Episode 6 review.
Do I sue Voxis for theft or CJ for allowing blatant plagiarism on his stream?
Either way, I'm taking everything.
Joint lawsuit.
Just take them down.
Yeah, just get them to ask you to smile, dude,
and then you can have at it.
Do whatever you want.
You steal their intellectual property.
Video.
Season 8, Episode 3 has some of the best cinematography I've ever seen.
The world.
Yeah, too bad we can't see it.
Yeah, pretty much.
If there's not too much to ask,
I wanted to know if you could give me your thoughts,
such critiques of my video about the Battle of Winterfell.
Sorry, sorry for plug.
Yeah, I mean, I tend not to do any kind of reviews of random fan content
because I've already decided not to with all the different people requesting.
So if I ever decided, yes, I will do it,
then it's kind of like, why did you choose to do that?
Guys are not this guys.
And I'd be like, oh, because I guess they caught me at the right time,
which is always just seems super unfair.
So I try and avoid it, not to mention, you know,
it's tough to be honest when it's like a person who's like,
I really like your work.
What do you think of mine?
It's like, oh, I don't want to say anything evil.
But yeah, so I try and just do a catch all sort of like,
I don't really I try to avoid it.
And this goes the same for anyone who's like,
I've written a story.
Would you mind telling me what inconsistencies might be in it?
I'm just like, yeah, I'd recommend you just test them on all your friends.
Get it, get it going.
All your peer groups and and then complete it,
release it and start working on the next one.
You know, just I'd recommend be as obnoxious as possible
and you'll probably end up on eFap.
Um, no, then you can get it done by you get it done by a fit.
Oh, we actually like we're trying to encourage a policy of like,
if we can tell from a video that they're trying to get on eFap,
we'll be like, OK, don't cover it because we don't want to want to be doing it.
So I didn't read this policy updates.
I'm sorry.
It was in the patch notes.
The dawn was foreshadowed to kill the Night King
because the Night King smiled.
Oh, fucking now this next level shit.
Can we do half speed for this guy?
It was painful, but we did it.
We could see them fine when they broke down the wall last effing season.
I know, right?
We could see that they were well lit throughout all of the show.
So the idea that they're not they're not they're creepier when you can't see them.
I was like, no, they're creepy when you can see them.
Is this a plot hole?
If Loki could use the cube to teleport himself this whole time,
how come he didn't use it to save himself and Thor during Infinity War?
Nobody else used that power before Thanos did originally.
Actually, I think that's pretty fair.
Why didn't Loki use it to teleport in the beginning of Infinity War?
Say one second, sorry.
Why didn't Loki use the space stone in the beginning of Infinity War
being the Tesseract to teleport him and whoever else he wanted out if he could do it?
Because he had a moment of weakness.
That's actually because he was old.
I didn't think of that.
That's actually a problem.
It kind of kind of ruins that moment in Infinity War a little bit.
Unless chat has a counter that I didn't think of.
I'd have to think about how, because the way he uses it is still...
Don things on Twitter.
What is this video?
Okay, hang on.
I'll have to try and look at these once I'm through the Superchast to make sure we get it done.
We'll do a few memes at the end because I have to collect them all.
And yeah, there's actual meme content for us to go through,
but a lot of it has wolf in it.
So obviously, I'd prefer to wait until he's back
if you guys are all cool with that instead of doing all memes in memory of Dawn.
Fucking robot had made that.
Okay, I'll just put that ready.
All right, there we go.
He didn't use the cube because he put his bet on Hulk.
I think that's weak.
The Loki maneuver makes sense.
What Loki maneuver? Which one?
Okay, they're talking about the Holdo maneuver, the Loki maneuver, maybe.
I don't know, are they?
After Ragnarok, he wanted to defend the Asgardians to try to fight.
I guess the only thing I can think of is that he can only teleport himself out
with that cube and not anyone else.
But I don't know why that would be a rule, considering everything else, but.
Or why he wouldn't do it anyway.
Yeah, maybe.
Or why he wouldn't.
I don't know, it's odd.
Maybe he tries to give it to Thor or something.
He actually shows a bit of selflessness and tries to give it to Thor or something.
I don't know.
It clearly scanned really well and got my intended reaction of vague confusion.
I am not following what you're saying, Jay.
You're the worst.
Remember how in The Last Samurai, during the forest battle,
the audience could see just fine despite the film portraying enemies emerging from the shadows?
No, it's scary when you can't see any of them.
Good films don't exist.
Have you seen Aladdin 2019?
Asians are scarier when they're hiding in the bushes.
We've not, I don't think any of us have seen the new Aladdin,
and I don't know that any of us want to.
Don't care.
I hear you like money in good shows, Penny Dreadful.
I've heard of that, but I have not seen it.
But thank you.
Mola has become the new George RR Martin.
Where are the final two of Bridal Rages?
They're coming, but the TFA stuff is coming.
It's like, it's a nightmare.
Everything's on its way.
I understand George is paid, okay?
Even though I haven't taken years to do nothing.
What would I know?
Hey, Mola, love all your stuff.
You sound Welsh.
This may be well known.
I'm interested to know roughly where in Wales you're from.
You can totally be vague about this.
I need to send you flowers.
Just throw them outside.
You'll find them.
It's, how do you, I'm surprised.
You know, I don't know.
I wonder what the tells are for the fact that I've got a Welsh accent.
I wonder what words.
Here, here, here.
That's probably the biggest one.
I wonder if there's anything else, though.
And when you, yeah, when you say things, especially fast.
So I'll say, I know you're out when you're doing your videos.
Also, you make more of an effort to announce here everything.
But words like here, here, there.
No, actually, no, not there.
Or there.
They get, the syllables get muddied when we speak fast.
Some people say when I say Earth.
Earth?
Instead of birth?
Instead of birth?
You have to, you have to say it like, you have to say it like after Earth.
I don't think that's just British, though.
Or at least, like, I don't, I don't think that's a, that's a Welsh thing.
Like I said, is Earth versus Earth?
Earth.
South of rage.
Earth, Earth.
That's probably the difference I'm talking about.
I don't fucking know.
I don't know why I asked that question.
It's going to be a tidal wave of confusion.
South Wales is the specificity I shall provide, Michael.
But I don't require flowers.
I appreciate the gesture, though.
Rags.
I bought a plague tail because of your review.
I finished it.
An oar in the blind forest yesterday.
It was a good time.
Love you guys.
I was from James Mawler.
I imagine, yeah.
Good stuff, James.
Good stuff.
Betty Swalox.
Dildo swag.
Dilbo swaggids.
Yes.
I made a vision of Goliath mentions from Jstream.
Put it in a R Mawler.
I also linked an unedited video in your Discord if you wish to edit it better.
I'm already like two thirds of the way through editing.
I would have done it by now.
I just got sidetracked with a little Game of Thrones stuff.
But yeah, I've been I was editing it while I was playing Jurassic World.
And so it feels like it's been ages since I played that.
That's how long I've been working on that thing.
No.
Jurassic World, Fallen Kingdom.
The award-winning sequel to Jurassic World, Risen Kingdom.
What the fuck are you talking about?
Here's five bucks for the funeral after Wolf comes back.
And here's a Game of Thrones writer who's writing for the Lord of the Rings show,
Saw Samoa.
I guess that's true then.
Maybe.
He'll be fine.
He'll be fine.
You are wrong, though.
I'm not.
Yeah.
That came from God.
I'm not sure.
Oh, well.
Oh, God.
Maybe Cheez Larsen can rescue a Game of Thrones?
Some feminism?
I totally don't.
No.
Can I PM you a five-minute interview to watch later?
Why, though?
What is the interview?
What do you mean?
I don't know.
Intro view.
Hey, first-time viewer watching live.
I'm up to episode 29 on backlog.
Got to catch up with the lore.
Oh, my God.
I'm impressed you got that far already.
Just about a few free years, I guess.
Mueller, I hope you know Goodell causes me pain on multiple levels,
even though I know it's a parody.
That's the idea.
The Expanse Season 3 has a near-perfect rating.
Does it?
It isn't good for it, I guess.
I don't know.
Yeah, I would call that good.
Well, I'm not going there today.
How long have you guys been going?
I woke up at 7 a.m. to see you fucking streaming.
It is now up to the bedroom.
Five hours, 42 minutes.
Yeah.
Not bad.
Fun story from watching Endgame.
When all the women were at the screen at once,
this woman started cheering and clapping.
No one joined her.
So the genius waited 10 seconds and tried again.
Pathetic.
She was having fun, I guess.
In memory of a fellow Don, drink to his legacy.
Oh, yeah, Don was a good man.
I powered through all eight seasons of Game of Thrones in two weeks,
and by the time I got to the last few episodes, I was like,
uh, what?
That's how it ends?
Please, no.
Oh, God, I'm sorry about that.
That must suck.
It's OK, not wanting to review fan videos.
I just find it funny how my main talking points,
such as scale were brought up by you guys as well.
Oh, yeah, fair enough.
They must have been amazing points.
At Rags, we don't hide in bushes.
We hide in rice fields.
That's in relation to your comments about Asians hiding in bushes.
You were wrong.
They hide in rice fields.
Well, I guess we'll have ourselves a little knick-knack patty whack here
and take care of the problem.
That wasn't English at all.
Hey, Rags, what's the next video?
Soon, I hope, now that I've got, for the most part,
this new computer up and running,
and everything is able to get transferred over.
So hopefully really soon, I'm actually coming pretty close to finishing it up.
I just want to get this thing out of the way.
Finish wrapped up.
I'm doing something here.
Michael Edwards said, I'm Welsh, too, so it's easy for me to hear.
Or hear.
Yeah, he definitely is saying, I'm Welsh, too.
It's easy for me to hear.
Yeah, I was just saying, was I muted the whole time
I talked to you about that, just now?
You guys hear something?
Any update on the adventures of Mauler and the Baby?
Mauler and the Baby?
Mauler and the Baby?
What am I missing with that?
I don't know.
You mentioned at the start of the stream about your family baby.
Oh, yeah, just that it was better to start the stream at 11am
rather than 4am, I think, because otherwise I didn't want to wake up the person who is DiBabi.
It's not my baby.
I don't got a baby.
It's a relative baby who was staying over for now.
But yeah, that's about it for Super Chats.
I think there's just a couple of memes I want to show you guys.
I made it through an entire eFap, my favorite show.
That was from Fred the Cosmic Chicken.
Oh, yay.
These memes, they're too powerful.
I'm just going to set up a few memes.
But yeah, that is mostly it.
Like I said, there's some video memes and there's some other images and some pieces of art to go through.
But like I said, I'm going to save them for Mr. Wolf.
Fair enough.
And so we're nearly done.
I'll save that one as well.
I'm not sure.
Yes, yes.
Uh-oh.
Okay, all right.
Five memes.
Ready?
Five memes.
Five fucking memes.
Number one.
Beautiful.
Got the done.
Yeah.
This actor ever found out about this.
It's the biggest date made.
Because you don't need context.
Exactly.
Just imagine what...
The fucking t-shirt.
They're right over there.
Yeah.
They put the t-shirt in.
That was the effort right there.
And now, this one was on my Twitter.
What am I missing here, context-wise?
This is probably a reference, right?
A nose?
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I think you said something earlier, Rags, about Matt's nose.
I don't think so.
I don't think I remember mentioning anything about his nose.
I don't know.
Either way.
You see, that just doesn't seem like me.
Like, I don't think I'm the kind of person
who would make fun of people's body parts.
No, no, no.
You're far, but you're far.
Don, don, don, don.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
He's got the double iPad.
I love that.
This is great.
The cutout.
It really does look like a movie.
He just looks like he's wearing a bra on his eyes.
Like, they're starring Don, Don, and Don.
The sunset.
Oh, man, the helicopter's back there.
Oh, this is really good.
I really like this one.
This is from Robot Head, I guess.
Unless he got it from Sorebs.
He seems like such a nice guy.
From the children's hospital.
Thank you for your tireless work.
You're back with Becky forever.
Please donate to the Becky Foundation.
People are going to think this is real.
It's perfect.
Utterly perfect.
Yeah, let me refresh.
Ooh, what PC did you get, Rags?
Totally not going to copy you and go buy it.
It's not done yet, so I'll wait until it's all put together proper.
But it's mostly here, and mostly it's being used now,
but it's not something I'll explain later.
But it's for the most part, a new computer.
When it's all done, though, I will make an announcement
or just post something about it.
Driving from Houston to Dallas today.
Happy y'all here.
Happy trails to all my n-words.
Yodiful.
How long does it take to travel from Houston to Dallas, Rags?
How long does it take to travel from Houston to Dallas?
By driving, yeah.
I don't know.
Man, you're supposed to know everything about America.
Literally everything.
It takes hours.
No, it takes minutes.
Someone in channel, though.
They'll have accurate answers on this.
It takes many minutes.
Watch One Punch Man.
I'm actually going to get around to it soon.
I just wanted the Game of Thrones to get that done.
Just need to get Game of Thrones done.
I stand with it all.
It's all over Twitter.
I say nothing.
He said nothing.
Nothing.
But yes, that is what I'm about to do it.
I figure since he's been on eFAB before,
and he's currently streaming,
Metal Commander, who's-
Did you see Kyle today?
Who, where'd you-
Anyway, Metal Commander's streaming on Twitch right now.
And I'm probably going to invite him to this call.
Let's see if we can do that.
And then go annoy him by jumping into his thing.
YouTube, where is it?
There we go.
I'm going to add him and annoy him,
because he's currently playing a video game like a little nerd.
He's playing a little kids game called Super Mario Odysse.
Monday, Mario's floor,
Senorita Moltobene de Sandarilla.
Super Mario Odyssey.
Have you ever heard of this?
Super Mario's-
Little kids game.
Maria Nada Sia.
Little kids game.
Little-
Little kids game.
Little kids game.
Either way, we're gonna-
The call will continue-
Shut the fuck up.
What the fuck are you doing?
You piece of shit.
Tortollini.
Oh, he didn't tell me.
Oh, there you go.
Shut the fuck up.
Oh, how you doing?
What the fuck are you?
This is the end of stream.
The after party, the aftertisms.
I'm going to hang out on Twitch.
So you guys can follow the link in chat if you want to.
Wait, you're twaching?
You're twitching?
No, he's twitching.
I know, it's generally-
Metal's twit.
Well, I didn't want to ask Metal
because it's generally considered and polite
to ask people about their Twitch.
So now that we've just-
I guess we're just out and about.
I guess we're just out there.
He just does heroin.
He just does heroin.
That's it.
I don't care.
You know who the real heroin is?
Captain Marvel.
Oh my God.
Well, thank you all for watching.
Thank you for the kind donations
and the wonderful art.
I hope you had fun.
This will be archived on the Moolah channel.
And if you guys want to just hang out with us
for a little bit longer,
even if it's 10 seconds
or 10 minutes or 10 years.
Oh God, here we go.
You can find it on Metal's channel.
So, we'll see you there.
As they say, itali, adiyo.
Adiyo se mi nati.
Ah, adiyo.
Alex, say goodbye in a stupid voice.
Oh, salve.
That was good.
