Well, yeah, we've been under the heel of the storm for quite some time.
It's been weird.
It's one of the first times I walked outside, I was really blown over.
I was like, Whoa.
Yes, the first day the storm came in, it tore off the front of a sort of flat block on my
state because there was a satellite dish that was nailed to the wall and it just took the
wind quarter and tore the whole bloody wall out.
Oh, Christ.
Damn.
It's a bit serious.
That is the funny thing with us, though, in good old Britain, the most extreme thing we
usually get is just like minor compared to other countries extremes.
Oh, yeah, it's wonderful.
It's rather windy over here.
Yeah, it's never very hot.
It's never very cold and nothing really too dramatic happens.
And I like it.
Yeah, exactly.
People like move to America.
It's like, no, dramatic things happen in America.
True.
We have earthquakes, hurricanes, no volcanoes on the mainland, though.
So, yeah, I mean, Mount St.
Helens that blew decades ago.
So we don't probably have to worry about that blue already.
It's all right.
What about what about the national parks?
Isn't like Yellowstone?
Yeah.
Isn't that like a horrifying sort of Damocles over America as well over the world?
Yeah, yeah.
No, to be fair, it'll just destroy America and cripple all air traffic for the next
hundred years.
So what do you mean?
No.
Has media lied to me?
All I've ever known about Yellowstone is this is it's a horrifying monster waiting to happen.
I had no idea it was a horrifying monster waiting to happen.
I think it is actually a legit concern.
Yeah.
If that thing blows, it's basically over for humans.
Yeah.
Oh, well, it was here when we found it.
It was here when we got here.
So it's not our fault.
We didn't do it.
Damn Indians.
Yeah, it is your land, your volcano.
You sort it out so much.
Why did you do this?
Why can't they just put a cork in it?
I don't know.
I don't know why they've angered the spirit so much.
Why can't they just like ease the pressure, like drill boreholes or something?
I don't know.
I mean, the problem is if we make a hole, like it's basically a very loud balloon filled
with a lot of explosives.
If we were to bore a hole into it, we'd be releasing all of that.
What if we cut all the way around it and really deep and then throw it into space?
Would that is that is that viable?
It's less destructive than trying to bore a hole into it, I guess.
All right.
Well, see, we're getting there.
This is how you solve problems.
Brainstorm.
Space is our ally here.
Let's just build another mountain on top of it.
It's it's approximately four thousand cubic kilometers of lava.
So not that much.
No, it's a tiny bit.
I mean, what if we put a volcano inside it and then they cancel each other out, right?
You could actually fit quite a few volcanoes inside of it.
Again, we'll put that idea on the maybe side.
All right.
Well, yes, everybody, welcome to number seventy four, which is oddly similar to sixty
four, where my Internet was rudely interrupted by a bunch of wiring.
The Labor Party did it was funny because it's all been fixed now.
Quote unquote.
I'm just like, I swear to God, what happens again?
Because it was weather that did it last time.
And it's like, I hope we don't have any bad weather in Britain as of recently.
And it's like, yeah, we're only in the middle of like a decade defining storm, but it's OK.
We're four minutes in.
We got to beat twenty or twenty five, I think it was.
If we get to half an hour, that means that we've beaten the record, guys.
So not bad.
But yeah, I'm going to try and quickly get through in our little introduction here.
Some some some of the stream labs from last episode is the only thing that we didn't get
to cover before you were cut off rudely by a YouTube system.
You are there, right, Rex?
YouTube's always improving the streaming system.
Well, a lot of people are like, can you really complain?
They give you a 12 hour limit and you're like, it's not enough.
It's like, well, it's just it's racist to long men.
That's that's my position.
I think that it discriminates long men and that we should it should be stopped.
Anyway, so it says, hey, Mupa, my friend, Jamie wants to know your take on the tenderized
mechanic in Monster Hunter World.
What are your thoughts? Tenderized mechanic.
I am not even 100 percent sure of what that is.
And you guys play Monster Hunter World?
No, but I'm interested in a tenderized mechanic because I've played it quite a bit and I
don't remember a tenderized mechanic from ever tenderize those monsters, never tenderize
those big old beasties.
Yeah, you know what? I will I'm going to put I'm going to put a little note on that with
Chase and the next time he's on, I will try and ask him what it is so that he can tell
me and then I can tell you what I think of such a thing.
Also, hi, Das and Jay, if you're still there.
Wolf rags. Love you, Massives.
Mutually, would it be all right if I email you a structured response to your points on Westworld?
I know your level of accuracy and consistency enough to trust your take and assume that
I have a bias or lack of information, but I don't waste your time.
You probably aren't too invested in it and are a busy massive.
See, the problem is I haven't thought about Westworld since when did season one come out?
Like 2015, 2016, 17, 16, I think it was.
But yeah, my points are going to be relatively weak until I rewatch and I don't plan to.
So I appreciate the the interest, but you're probably not going to be able to get much out of me.
So I'll just be like, oh, is that how it was?
I'd have to go check, but I'm too busy watching the other thing.
Oscar movies, that's why I've been watching lately, of which a lot of them are very good.
I don't know if we'll need to talk about that at some point.
Maybe me and Rags can discuss the Oscar winners at some point.
Maybe I have a subconscious bias or I'm missing information.
I'd love to if it could be some sort of discussion if you have the time to message.
Thank you. Yeah, like I said, I my Westworld knowledge is very thin right now.
Toward the end of January, I've already seen a lot of episodes, but I was still missing out on some law.
I've been watching from episode one since and I'm halfway through episode twenty nine.
Washed over five days of a fab in two weeks of losing sanity.
You'll get there. You'll get there. It'll be fine.
Yeah, it's a long.
I'm curious what we get to like episode two hundred if it's even going to be possible for people to actually watch from the beginning anymore.
Now it'll be like days of our lives or something where by the time you watch them all, years have been made.
When you read my Lord of the Rings, he felt speech.
I had a huge smile, hearing Jay clap at the end.
And then when you pointed out he hasn't even seen the third film,
you wouldn't get the reference that jointed to ashes of my.
Yeah, yeah, he's like the only person I've ever met who it's even worse than you think, Sargon, right?
So not only is he not seen the Lord of the Rings trilogy, he watched fellowship and then stopped.
Why? Yes, that is the ongoing mystery that is Jay.
He doesn't even think it was bad.
He was just like, yeah, I just lost interest.
It's like how?
It's only an epic quest, don't worry.
But like, remember how that film ends?
It's like, oh, look at all this potential.
You got the three main warriors are going to go try to save two kidnapped members of the crew while two others fall on off the cliff, isn't he?
Yeah, yeah, that too.
I guess is this and you got Sam of Frodo seeing Mordor in the distance like, who knows what's going to happen?
I just love the idea of being like, well, that's me.
I'll stop there.
I'm sure they manage it.
That was good.
I know they're going to put the rig in the volcano is no point.
Yeah, well, you know, didn't have Jay and force him to watch Lord the Rings with rhino milk or rhino milk for.
Oh, my God. Once more, the log men will rule objectivity and we shall have faps.
Oh, my God. I'm on board with this.
Take my money, please. Very well.
The I hate everything conversation made me upset on Rags behalf.
He keeps talking about the lack of communication and not wanting to continue the issue.
Yet he was the one who was sniping, avoiding communication and kept misrepresenting rags in later podcasts bark.
Yeah, he could have said something to me any time you wanted.
That's one of the things I brought up was that I tried to organize a conversation several times and he kept sort of delaying or ignoring and then just leaving alone,
but then simultaneously kept sniping.
So he was just like, why are you doing this?
Why can't we have a conversation?
Then we eventually did. So it all worked out kind of conversation ring involves opposition.
Why would you want this when you can't just monologue conversations boring?
I prefer everyone just talking in general.
And sometimes it connects up like you're like, oh, that sounded like a response.
But no, just everyone just say whatever they want.
Hey, guys, glad you enjoyed my little call with Matt.
Oh, yeah, that video is funny.
Having something I made on IFA was a surprise treat that made my day.
Thank you, massive's first crack at editing.
Sorry, the music audio jumped out.
It's more of a meme for my viewers. That's fine.
We saw a video a Monday.
Matt was asked if he likes the FAP and he was like, no, I don't even know what that is.
And then a little bit later, he explains that like he knows us relatively well and that he knows we're familiar with his work and don't like it and all this other stuff.
We're like, you do know what we are like.
I know I know what they talk about on the FAP, but simultaneously, I have no idea who they are.
But I think regarding the movie Bob quiz, who do you believe appeared on a live segment on CNN to discuss Trump's tweets?
Richard Spencer or Cinema Roberto?
The answer might shock you.
There's no fucking way Cinema Robert was on CNN.
Really, was it?
Yeah, but can you imagine them having Richard Spencer on?
Wait, so what are the wars?
I mean, they do.
I mean, they're a CNN contributor.
Yeah, official analyst.
If I was to choose one of them, I probably would pick Richard Spencer just because I can't actually picture movie Bob being on TV like I just can't.
He's he's in a different realm.
He's just the Internet, dude.
He'd just be introduced as the most relevant man.
This is human visionary.
What are we some kind of avian predators?
Begeteous baggyballs.
That's a that that name will just consistently change for the better.
The I had everything conversation made me appreciate Rags' video even more.
Give him infinite head pats, belly rubs, butt scratches.
All right.
And even the precise tickles behind the ears.
Rags, you're an objectively good boy.
Oh, thank you.
Rags, would you and your clone poop together with the door open?
No, we would never poop together with a door open.
I live alone and I close the door.
Mueller and his clone lock it if someone was here, Mueller and his clone would wage an endless war of response videos,
critiquing each other, criticizing each other until they die of old age.
This is true. Very true.
We would you would run a second podcast.
The Nega, if Apple something just just two more.
Have you used meta stream before?
I find it's miles better than watch together, except for occasional audio issues.
But that might be on my side.
I actually find sync video to be the best.
Sorry if you've talked about it before.
Still catching up on a fast with watch together.
I kind of get lulled into a sense of security with it.
And I don't actually look for backups, but then the second it goes down for like even an hour, I'm like panicking like, oh, fuck, I need to.
What do we do? Check it out later.
Yeah. So I pull it up on another page.
It would make sense that there would be good alternatives and we probably should find one.
That's a good backup, I suppose.
Clarifying box office Joker Worldwide made one billion, 71 million.
While Trost made one billion, 59 million.
Well, 50 you can call a 60 million for rounded up.
Actually, round them both up.
Joker is only 12 million ahead, but had no China release and Trost is barely making anything daily at the moment.
So it's very possible that it'll actually fall short of Joker.
Not to mention that Stahl's does badly in China, right?
Like they don't like it.
Yeah, it does really badly in China.
Too diverse.
Those bastards.
Why didn't I like Rose Tico?
She was great.
I'm a wrong kind of Asian.
Damn.
OK, I'm joking. I don't know.
It might actually well be that it's the wrong kind of Asian.
The Chinese have strong opinions of other Asians.
All Asians have strong opinions of other Asians.
You know what?
Kelly Marie Tranz needs a Japanese teacher persuasion.
Yeah.
And yeah, that does it for we caught up with everything from last stream.
We just haven't caught up with everything from every stream.
But I feel like this might be the stream of me and Rags can really assault that today.
Going to be great.
That'll be later on, though.
But now it's funny.
If you go to her IMDB, Kelly Marie Tranz, she is an actress.
Known for Star Wars.
The Last Jedi Star Wars.
The Rise of Skywalker and Hot Girls on the Beach.
What?
What?
That's it's not a movie.
Oh, yeah, I take it.
She was like an ice cream stall as an extra hot girl on the beach
in the hot girls on the beach.
But it's it's fair.
I want to watch one of those movies and it isn't.
Damn. Why are you like a sexist or something?
Why would you hate hot girls on the beach is the only one with a positive rating.
Damn. Critics hated it.
The audience went wild.
Five point four out of 10 right now.
It's an action comedy, much like Star Wars, I guess.
They're just action comedies.
I wonder if she'll do how a career is going to go now that Star Wars is done.
I wonder if they'll give her a Disney show.
Tico, a Star Wars story like you're
are we going to see her with the little wand to making the mouse ears
magic lines in the corner like the Disney Channel?
She could be those of those one of those throwaway presenters
on like a toddler show, basically.
Yeah, she could pull that off, I think.
I believe in you, Kelly.
You can do don't let your dreams be memes.
Do whatever you need to do.
So I still think a whole trilogy with her as a protagonist would be hilarious
and they should consider it at this point, because it always is a joke.
Fuck it. Why not?
I think diversity sells.
I think if there's one thing we've learned from all this,
it's diversity just sells.
We do buddy cop so much money.
Disney, it's going to get so many views.
You should make her not not just the protagonist,
but basically the sole character of a trilogy of movies.
Just her trapped in a room.
No, they're with Jar Jar trapped in a room.
And actually, it'll really work well with her natural charisma, you see.
So I can't be what was the what was the last film
where literally her like one line is to berate the neck beard.
It's like, could you not be so negative, Mr.
Neckbeard? And he's just like, all right.
Yeah, and it's like, bitch, we're all about to die.
But yeah, sorry.
Oh, sorry. We're only out number 2000 to one.
And we have one ship.
I apologize for my negativity.
I take it you didn't see the thousand star destroyers out there.
Fuck's sake.
Oh, that was the time to tone police, is it?
I don't know if we actually
we've mentioned this on the effects.
I know we've discussed it about Twitter, but Jenny Nicholson is one of the people
we've covered previously, and she put out a tweet saying that the the retcon
of all this maneuver was dumb, saying it was a one in a million shop,
because really it wasn't even that like good of a thing.
Like, sure, it hurt one of the main ships.
Yes. And it destroyed a few other small ones.
But like, come on, you don't need to retcon that.
You can just it wasn't that big of a deal.
And it's like you look at the scene.
It wiped out like fucking 15 star destroyers.
I can't think that's significant.
And it completely breaks the signs behind weapon rain star.
Yes, if you can do that, then just building a warper capable engine
and attaching it to a few hundred kilograms of metal
and you have an anti capital torpedo.
Yeah. And I mean, literally every A wing has a hyperdrive.
Just put a fucking droid piloting in it.
And then suddenly you have just just build factories producing droids
and a wings and then that's it.
Well, you extend this to the point as well where they'll be like,
no, it needs to be really big mass.
And that doesn't make any sense in terms of how this works.
But fuck it, let's just say that's true.
It's like, OK, get a meteor, attach a hyperdrive to it.
You're done.
Then we'll just we'll just be a build a big ship
and then drive them through other ships.
It'll just be essentially empty.
You know, it's an amazing weapon.
And then the starter drawers, every starter
is having a planet destroying weapon on it.
I'm just fuck off. I'm done.
Just like energy matters.
Let's say, yeah, well, all you have to say to JJ is like,
let's scale it down a notch.
Let's go down.
Just go back to the lens flare, JJ.
It was safer. It ruined the franchises.
It is. It is a real meme, though.
Like you go big old sphere of Doom death style.
Like, how do you make that better?
Make it like fucking planet sized instead of moon sized.
All right. Oh, wow.
JJ nailed it.
How do you make your planet sized one like better?
And he's like, what about not a bigger one, but more of them?
And you're like, oh, like two.
And he's like, no, you go three, five, ten.
He's like, no, thousand.
OK, press control V repeatedly and want to be so satisfying
that you'll get wiped out by one floor.
And you're like, ah, I guess I could work.
What's the floor? They don't know how to go up.
Yeah, only one of them has a satellite dish on them.
Oh, really? None of them.
None of them are aware of the fact that they are all
perfectly aligned and could simply just go up.
Just look down with the floor.
Go opposite of that.
It's really, really to get up into the air.
They must be like some pilot must have had, you know, an up button
that he was pressing.
Just keep pressing it.
Well, the interesting thing is it's only the comparison.
I don't know if you remember, but in Avengers, there are the tech
gets knocked out and a guy says, I think Fury says head to the east
and he's like, well, I don't know where east is.
And then he just says, is the sun coming up?
Put it on the left like a simple way to sort of figure out something
that an instrument has previously been telling them.
But this isn't even that like this is up and down.
Like, how do you how do you write this?
It's so embarrassing.
All already perfectly oriented.
It's not like they're just in a chaotic jumble or anything.
No, they're all pointing with the roof upwards.
Turn off the artificial gravity and see which way people fall.
I just I just feel like if you were a stormtrooper
and you're not like an idiot, you're sitting in the command center
and they're like, we don't know which way is up.
Just like I can I I mean, I could I have an idea.
Probably sitting there thinking we're going to die like these fucking idiots.
But how else do you destroy all of them after creating this enormous threat?
You know, that's that's all that was.
It was so desperate.
Created the enormous now ridiculous.
I think their original idea, the one with alien cavalry
charging across the hull of a starter story
in a totally breathable atmosphere, by the way,
constantly riveted by fucking massive lightning storms.
I think if they just didn't do that thousand times, that'd be way better.
I really like that.
Giving giving Joker the Oscar was a mistake, man.
That cavalry charge deserve the fucking Oscar.
I think every Oscar should have gone to rise of Skywalker.
Just swept it swept it.
And it was nominated for none of them as well.
Let's have it that way.
It just comes in as this harsh widow.
I also love the Star Destroyers being planted into the ground.
So funny.
Like why?
Why?
It's the stupidest.
Why?
Why would anyone like we are we I mean, how many how long is the Star Destroyers?
Like two miles long or something, right?
It's fucking big.
It's fucking big.
If if we guess that there's a thousand people on each Star Destroyer, right?
And that's surely not going to be families and everything, right?
So the you know, it's going to be like a mini city itself.
So all these people agreed to live underground for an indeterminate period of time.
And just I don't know what build the Star Destroyers just live on them.
I mean, what?
Yeah.
How long were they prepared to stay there?
So each Star Destroyer has twenty eight thousand people on it.
What?
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tell him I'm going to wait.
Tell him about the supremacy.
That's even funnier.
Oh, OK.
Let me make sure.
Let me double check and make sure that I don't say something ridiculous here.
Yeah.
Wait.
So so you remember the supremacy from the Last Jedi, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the the crew of the let me see the crew of the supremacy is.
Let's see two million two hundred twenty five thousand.
Just make the larger.
It'll be impressive.
Where did they get their food?
We will.
This we've discussed this before.
I was like, there must be a whole society and culture on there.
That's completely dissimilar to anything in the galaxy.
It must be amazing.
Like this is legit science fiction stories of how life and culture and families change
and evolve over time, living on starships for their entire life as they cross the galaxy.
This is Battlestar Galactica stuff, but they're just like, I don't know.
This two point two million people on a starship is fine.
There's flying around.
They're just hanging out patrolling the hallways.
Never being exposed to natural light.
Like they've never seen it becoming, yeah, becoming like space hobbits or dwarves or something.
Yeah, they would be they'd get shorter and everything.
Use less resources.
I think it's so much unrest in the families of the supremacy and the lower levels or whatever.
There's so much you can do with that.
This is why in 40K, the lower levels are literally slave pits.
Where some human slave is pale, deformed monsters that have never seen the sun live.
Like they have no idea they're on a ship.
They worship the ship as a god.
Like it's their world.
Oh, well, makes sense.
This way for episode 10, it'll fix it all.
So anyway, they're making another one.
Oh, they will eventually.
But for now, I think they're still figuring out what they're even going to do.
For now, they've had enough defeats.
Like if the four of us were in a boardroom, they're like, what's next for Star Wars?
I'm pretty sure we'd all be like, well, you kind of fucked it.
So I mean, I guess we're just going like 5000 years in the future to get as far away from this
nonsense as we possibly can.
Everything clean and then just be like, what?
No, no, that never happened.
What what are you even talking about?
Just do what isn't, you know, with JJ Abrams, his Star Trek didn't isn't it called like a different
timeline or whatever the his his movies?
Is it Prime versus Kelvin or something like that?
And my point is just that maybe do that.
Maybe just go.
Yeah, the episodes eight and seven and nine and the whole thing.
Not even that.
Let's give them compromise.
We'll tell them you can keep it as quote unquote canon, but put it in a different
fucking parallel universe.
You can have it.
Good.
Just it's over there.
Effectively is decanonize.
Well, yeah, but, you know, it's everything.
Yeah, but yeah, just essentially all of this is a fucking mistake and we're sorry.
We'll never speak of it again.
It's like if it was put into its separate universe and then everybody who comes in to
make a new story gets to choose between those two universes to make a story.
Do you think they'd ever choose the sequel universe?
No, why the fuck would I do that?
I used to watch a guy called Confuse Matthew and his like breakdowns of it.
And I really, really enjoyed his breakdowns of the prequels.
But honestly, looking back at it, I just feel, oh, Christ, we're being so massively unfair.
The prequels seem really interesting compared to what we got.
Like, I just I think so.
Yeah.
I can't believe I can't believe at the time I was so invested in these prequels being shit.
No, they're amazing.
Now, like Palpatine's doing things.
You know, you know, they talk about how laughter is a reaction to shock and stuff.
If you have someone telling you that the day is saved because a human being
doesn't know which way up is you laugh.
But ultimately, you're like, do you think I'm this stupid?
Like, do you think I'm actually that stupid?
And they're like, well, I don't know.
Well, the prequels never gave me that sense.
The people never felt like they were like, you're an idiot.
It's like, no.
At least they had at least they had two navigation systems.
You got to give them that.
They had a backup.
Did they know which way left and right way?
They should have just traveled around the planet and gotten away that way
just to spread themselves out a bit.
Instead of putting them all right next to each other and they're not doing anything.
Or at least they just dropped like a ball and go like, well, it fell down.
I guess we go the opposite direction.
And this is the big solution.
I imagine this is my video.
Palpatine, push them up with a force.
You did it already.
Sort of push.
You know which way is up.
I can't believe you got like 10,000 death stars and you just die.
How many decades of planning wasted man by tens of thousands of people
requiring a fathomable millions of resources, a food, of water,
all constructed on a dead, empty world.
Good fucking job.
And you lose in the first battle.
You don't even shut fire a ship.
I'm going to say it's not really a battle, is it?
Like they, they got a false sense of confidence.
They build up because Palpatine's like, oh, and just in case things go pear shaped.
What I can do is I could literally reach my hands in the air and
stun the entire enemy fleet.
You're like, man, we cannot lose this.
There's no way at that point.
You're like helps.
How did you lose?
Your resources were intense.
There's like 30 dude showed up with some spaceships.
We know the cavalry charge coming.
And to be fair, I believe him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can't really argue.
I didn't say coming either.
That part was so stupid.
I remember us talking about the trailer when that first came out and talking like
months ago.
And I'm pretty sure Fringy said, like, you can just tilt the ship.
Surely like all the way back there.
This is like, you see it in the film and you're like, yeah.
And I remember someone said like, oh, but there's danger.
Of course, if you tilt the ship, what about all the men inside the ship?
And if there's no artificial gravity on in order to be able to tilt the people
on the outside, like some real stretch in terms of it can happen.
I just like the counter is just like you're trying to save your entire fleet.
Some people could get knocked over in your ship.
It's okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Then they fall over and get back up.
Sorry.
It'll be fine.
Put out the notes, but everybody hang on.
Surely they'll be fine.
It'll be worth it because they won't explode as a result.
It's for the best.
Trust me.
We'll pay out on any compensation claims.
We have to pay out.
Okay.
Do you remember that?
Jam the speeders.
Someone just said it in chat.
It's like, what the hell?
Where did that come from?
We see that before.
Jam the speeders.
Because when did that happen?
Pride thinks that they're on top of his ship with speeders.
And then the reveal is they're not speeders at all.
Dun, dun, dun.
It's horses, space horses.
It's like, jam the speeders.
When was that a thing?
Well, it was a thing around the same time as hyperspace suddenly started
functioning in completely different ways.
At least he alludes to their being jamming in a universe where the top
secret access codes of the Imperium is fucking stolen left, right and center.
Oh, well.
I just realized we're already running out of time,
considering how long you fell as may or may not be here.
So we should probably just jump into this video.
If I can find a good slot, I will try and ask you some of the questions
that came in for you last time.
But I already know there's going to be a bunch that come in this time as well.
I think we'll just have to maybe the next time you come on,
in fact, we won't even cover a video.
It'll just be talking and answering questions or something.
Try and make it work.
PSA, super chatters.
Don't send in questions.
It's unlikely they'll be able to answer them this time around or for a while.
But, you know, whatever you want to do, I'll save them if you do.
It's just I'm just saying it could be some time before they get to see them.
That is the Watch Together link.
Jump in.
So this video, I can't remember how I found this or was giving it,
but it's called Ten Floors with the Starship Troopers Mobile Infantry.
And it's a part of the best space marine series.
I'm guessing they compare and contrast all kinds of fictional space marines.
So before before we watch this, I'm not adverse to the idea of there being floors.
Oh, yeah.
Gotta be.
You know, I don't know.
It's a retarded organization, militarily speaking.
Just it's not retarded, but it's I mean,
I mean, it's one way of doing things.
It depends on the canon that we're using.
If it's just a movie canon and it's just the first film, then yeah, it's not.
It's just like a modern military.
But the book canon is pretty good, you know, that's pretty effective.
Will we be allowed to use the book as defenses if this is only about the film, though?
I'm done.
Well, it depends what it says.
True.
But yeah, I only saw I think like a minute or two of this with rags once upon a time.
So I'm not actually sure what to expect.
I've like supposedly forgotten it.
But yeah, I'm expecting a little bit.
I'm expecting excitement.
Oh, hang on.
There we go.
All right.
Well, yeah, I'm good to go.
Is everyone else?
Yeah.
Exciting.
Okay.
Our war is going better than ever, but we need heroes.
We need you.
Hello, my human brethren and sister.
And welcome back to Upset of Generation Films.
Oh, my goodness.
My name is American Ben.
The law hasn't started playing on mine.
Do I need to refresh?
Oh, shit.
Let me let me reboot a few.
Is it working now?
Uh, no.
A fourth person has joined.
Could it be?
How about now?
No, for some reason, it's not playing.
It's just what do you see?
Is it a different video?
Is it like a black screen?
Okay.
If I just press our war is going better than ever.
Yes.
Yeah.
Is that working for you?
So yeah.
So if you press play, does it go for me?
Yeah.
We all we all collectively control the play pause, but you control your volume.
I know we're supposed to be able to, but it doesn't look like it's working on my end.
Oh.
Do you want to try playing it and I'll let you know if it works.
Sure.
But we need heroes.
We need you.
Is that working?
Hello, Mike.
Yeah.
Excellent.
Okay.
We're at 10 seconds.
We're seeing our presenter for the day, this wonderful gentleman.
Yes.
He is an interesting looking character with a very dirty shirt.
That's your opinion.
Human brethren and cistern and welcome back to Upset of Generation Films.
My name is American Ben.
The long course of history is complicated.
It is mired in conflict, war, bloodshed,
the limitless brutalization of humankind.
There are times when looking out upon.
The apes.
Why was that your choice of visual?
I mean, you could have picked literally any historical time period
or actual photographs of things that have happened.
Or artistic rendering.
Apes riding horses and spears.
I like the idea that the closest we have to monkeys in human history,
never tamed horses.
Okay.
Just to make that very clear.
I was just thinking, like, what if someone watched this and they were like,
oh, shit, that was real.
That actually did happen.
Oh my God.
Human chimp war.
Yeah.
It was a lot of losses.
A lot of human life lost.
A lot of ape life lost as well.
Mostly ape life.
Yes.
The world as it stands today that it's hard to look forward to the future.
It's a struggle to find hope when so many evils pervade our planet.
I don't know about that.
We are living in an unprecedented golden age, I'd like to point out.
We have never had it this well.
I think there are things to look forward to.
It's all right.
There are bad things too.
Just, hang on, hang on.
There was a study that was released,
and a survey that was released relatively recently, actually,
that showed that something like 90% of people are actually optimistic at the moment.
Because of the way the economy's going and all this sort of stuff.
People are actually looking forward to a bit of optimism,
and so going, oh, this is the worst time in human history.
It's really not.
Things have been so much worse, man.
It really is.
It's just our technology, the lives of absolute opulent luxury most of us lead.
If I can compare that to just 100 years ago.
Well, compare that to the Viking invasions of England, man.
I've just been reading up on them.
I tell you, one of the things that you get from all of the source material
is this huge sense of depression.
It's melancholy.
Families are being killed.
Everyone's being raped and pillaged,
and it feels like the world is falling apart,
and that really reflects in the poetry of the time.
And it's really sad, reading about it.
And then you just look on the internet now,
and everyone's bickering a bunch of children.
It's like, okay, fine.
Everything's fine.
Everything's fine.
I don't know about that.
The Viking sagas from the time seem quite optimistic, honestly.
This is why we're never paying our debts.
Look forward to the future.
It's a struggle to find hope when so many evils pervade our planet.
And yet in the face of a human society cut across racial,
religious, and political lines,
one faceless, brave hero could unite us all.
My friends across the internet, I talk, of course, of the Space Marine.
Okay, first and foremost, that's not a Space Marine.
That's a Primaris Marine.
That's a special Snowflake Marine, you fucking boser.
Oh my God.
Get called out.
That's so anal.
I love it.
It's a Primaris Marine.
Yeah, I love it, actually.
Yeah, it's real.
Primaris Marine, they're only sitting there with the Space Marines in the lore.
Yeah.
The genetic structure and makeup,
as well as your training and equipment,
do not meet the standards of the Space Marine contingent.
Wow, Rags.
You complain about people not being able to look up,
and apparently that's okay, but this isn't.
Jeez.
The Space Marines can look up.
But not Primaris Marines.
Mm-hmm.
Makes complete sense to me.
Galactic warrior that brings humanity together in common cause
against alien scum.
And so today-
Alien scum?
How rude.
Hang on, hang on.
What kind of framing is this?
Humanity's going to be brought together by Space Marines.
What?
What?
I guess he's kind of kidding, because I don't really know.
I don't know.
Maybe it's like the space version of the Salvation Army or something.
Is the idea that if we're at that point,
then we're all mostly united with one Earth-like force,
so we should all-
Extra-national guard?
I don't know.
Well, even then, that's not-
The example they give, like, with the fucking-
Wayne Lee Utanis?
Yeah.
It's like, okay.
That's a corporate mercenary.
Like-
Corporate mercenary.
That could be the future. You never know.
Well, I mean, it probably will be the future, to be honest.
But like, that's not like bringing humanity together in a common cause.
That's- I want to get paid.
Well, that's a fairly common cause.
Yes.
Everyone likes money.
So you go.
Capitalism wins again.
As we continue our coverage of Space Marines,
let us raise a glass in celebration
of the prospect of a future elite Space Force
that will bond humans together as we tear every last alien,
yes, even the babies, into tiny little pieces.
Look, I would love that, mate.
I would absolutely love that.
But you know, on the other side of it,
there's going to be some sniveling leftist going,
oh, let's give xenomorphs a chance.
Maybe we can-
Have you ever spoken to a xenomorph?
You know, exactly.
Exactly.
No, no one's spoken to them because they keep dying first.
Racial, racial hatred.
Nothing will ever be good enough.
Even if we literally find an alien
that literally, if it finds a way to speak to us, we'll say,
look, the only thing I desire is to eat all of humans.
I want them all dead all the time.
And there's nothing you can do to stop me.
They'll be like, well, we probably shouldn't eradicate them.
It's like, no, that's exactly what-
What did we do to make them feel this way?
I'm picturing a YouTube video that was like sitting down
with a xenomorph.
And it's like a nice little fireplace, a table, two armchairs.
And he's like, yes, I really don't appreciate
a lot of the media surrounding xenomorph.
And then it's very upsetting.
Yeah, but then you flick to the next video
and it's destiny and arguing against like someone else going,
well, no, what about the xenomorph feelings on this?
You know, have we considered the xenomorphs?
I mean, that's a fallacy, blah, blah, blah.
And it, oh, fuck me.
Bet you haven't considered the xenomorphs.
I haven't.
Well, maybe it may.
Well, if the xenomorphs are happy when they eat people,
if they're happier to eat the person,
then the person is sad to be eaten,
then the total happiness in the universe is increased.
Yeah, five xenomorphs get to eat one person
and the five people become happy.
And there's literally the cuck argument,
it's okay if everyone shags my wife.
Again, it all comes back to destiny's arguments
on why it's okay to be a cuck.
I could totally see it.
We can make an amicable compromise
where they get to kill all of our criminals.
Okay, we give them them.
I'm not really.
That's totally ethical.
I don't feel that utilitarian ethics is meant to be used in this way.
Like the greatest happiness has been raised.
Therefore, feed the xenomorphs.
Also, wait.
Oh, are they referencing criminals
when they fight the bug people, I guess?
Yeah, aren't those like weird drone sort of things?
I guess we'll see.
I'm going to see what this clip is.
As we tear every last alien.
Yes, even the babies into tiny little pieces.
Last episode.
I'm not the face huggers.
Think of the fucking face huggers.
Jesus.
I look like-
They're living beings too.
They didn't use a face hugger,
raping someone's face, right?
I mean, that's literally what the face hugs meant to be.
Like a disembodied vagina that actually uses a penis to rape your mouth.
Oh, no, no, it's the alien babies were tearing apart.
Oh, fuck's sake.
Well, maybe it's only rape because you don't want to be raped.
Yeah, rags for president.
Have you thought about that?
Suddenly, it's not a crime.
As Chad just pointed out,
if we made it so that criminals were fed to xenomorphs,
crime probably dropped to 0%.
That's true.
No, people commit crimes thinking they won't get caught.
If there's no people, there's no crime.
True.
True.
Alan looked at the flaws with clone troopers.
Today, we are moving on to the Starship Troopers mobile infantry.
Now, this is a little bit of a complicated thing to do
because there are many different iterations of the mobile infantry
between the Starship Troopers novel,
the film universe, anime, television series, and video game.
Over the next two videos,
we are going to do our best to focus on the movies and novel,
which means in some cases because of the differences between the two,
some flaws will also be advantages.
And we will note that throughout.
And for you veterans of the bug wars out there,
don't forget to do your civic duty
and vote in the poll at the end of this video,
rating the mobile infantry on a scale of one to five.
What would you guys give them out of one to five?
Movies?
Fucking two.
Who are the books?
Not most.
I'm sorry, what exactly are you rating here?
They are very effective in the books.
How good they are at being what they are?
I don't know.
Well, I mean, it just seems a bit arbitrary really to do it.
Like, I need a point of reference because in the movies,
this is a war that was launched on them by the bugs.
So they weren't expecting it.
And they weren't at war with anyone else.
So they didn't have very much in the way of like,
trained soldiery.
And all soldiers are, I don't want to say incompetent,
but lack morale and lack experience when they're new,
no matter how well they're trained.
So it doesn't seem very fair.
Because everyone's going to be thinking of Klendathu, right?
And the defeat on Klendathu.
But that was their first battle, wasn't it?
Where as by the end.
Yeah, they were very unprepared the way they portrayed.
Yeah, the first time they'd actually fought any of the bugs.
But by the end of it, they're just slapping them around
that there's no problem.
So I don't see anything wrong with the Federation army
for what it is in the setting.
Like in an intrinsic kind of base level?
Yeah, there's nothing intrinsically wrong with any of it.
But compared to what is in the books,
where they're engaged in intergalactic politics,
they're already at war with the skinnies.
They've already got this professional military corps
that has jumpsuits and mech suits and all this sort of shit.
Yeah, they're nowhere near that, obviously.
But you know, it was scaled down for the movie.
I think they're wonderful.
Hashtag Starship Troopers for life.
There's no way they could have improved.
I was trying to think it's like,
I guess an example of them being efficient
would probably be when they're at the compound, right?
They've got a pretty good kill death ratio at that compound.
They still lose, but it's not really fair.
I mean, kind of out numbers.
I think his militaries go.
I mean, they'd still be one of the best militaries on Earth,
just given the training and discipline they've got.
I mean, loads of armies,
less competently run.
The thing is their complete lack of heavy ordnance.
They are pathetically under-equipped in that regard.
Presumably, that slack would be picked up by the ships
or they'd be given that or something like that, right?
I mean, these aren't just an infantry unit.
Well, that's the thing.
From what we see in the movies,
the ships do not appear capable of engaging surface targets
to any great degree.
Their infantry is wearing flak west level protection
and machine guns.
They do not appear to have any heavily armored vehicles.
Their aircraft too look massively underwhelming.
I mean, their tactical bomber is terrible.
So fair.
You'd expect to see a lot more tanks and artillery
and air around combat.
Especially fighting a mobile war against monster insects.
Like squishy infantry would be the last thing
you'd really want to bring.
Yeah, it does seem to be the perfect thing
for the bugs to actually kill, doesn't it?
If you get gas bombs with bug killer in it,
like the X bug spray or something,
it's got to be massive military implications for that.
Gas, absolutely, yeah.
And who would argue like, oh, I can't gas the bugs.
That'd be cruel.
Like we do it all the time on Earth.
Yeah, but there is literally going to be
some fucking annoying snowflake who's going to be like,
is that, you know, I'm so, I'm so tired of this stuff.
Is that nice?
Is that ethical?
Yeah, I'm beyond caring.
You'll be eating your words when a xenomorph writes a book
and it's really insightful.
And it's just called the human problem.
Yeah, exactly.
On the fundamental metaphysics of humanity by the alien queen.
This is why I have a small goal.
So for those unfamiliar, Starship Troopers is set in a future world,
a few centuries ahead or 700 years ahead,
depending on film or book,
in which society is ruled by a military government
called the Tehran Federation.
Tehran, Tehran.
It makes me angry.
Tehran.
It's like when people pronounce it Zee-lot instead of zealot.
Zee-lot, ew.
Wait, is he trying to say Terran?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tehran.
Wow, I was wondering there for a moment.
Like, what?
The Iranians, they control the earth now.
Iran.
Tehran.
Yeah, it does sound like it's an actual country
that took over the world or something,
as opposed to what it, because it means Earth, right?
Terran or terror.
Terror.
Yeah, like Tehran.
I have never heard that pronunciation ever.
Well.
Maybe we shouldn't laugh too much at one pronunciation.
I pronounce loads of stuff wrong.
Oh, well, you know how it works.
It's like when you get common words, you're really surprised.
Just like, yeah, we all have them every once in a while.
It's Citizen Federation.
The story is set amidst an interstellar war
between humans and an extraterrestrial species
known as arachnids, or more simply, bugs.
The plot follows Juan Johnny Rico
as he enters military service
and rises through the mobile infantry ranks to general.
In this video, we have to favor the mobile infantry
in the films just a little bit,
because the mobile infantry in the books is much superior.
It's true.
Yeah, it's true.
The first flaw we are going to cover starts in boot camp.
Training.
We do see in the films that the mobile infantry recruits
do face harsh training practices.
The Federation forces even make pushes to more than one-
I agree, maybe breaking the dude's arm was not necessary.
Yeah, maybe excessive in terms of-
I wouldn't call that training.
I think a lesson was learned that day.
I think-
And the thing is, injury is only a real issue
if it is permanent or debilitating.
But it seems as if the medical technology in that era
is just like a broken arm.
It's just, you know, five minutes in the sixth day
and you're done.
He has the thing attached to his arm,
and you know, a couple of scenes later, it's fine.
He's on the ground going, what am I learning?
Well, see, the lesson was for everyone else.
For him, it was just- I'm sorry, you're the example.
He's just the-
He's just the poor guy.
He survived up until he got shot in the head, so it's fine.
It's like the knife through the hand.
All of these things are relative to the medical technology you have.
Training practices.
The Federation forces even make pushes to lure the more talented students
in the Federation to fight for them.
But overall, MI training is not overly specialized.
And more importantly, it often doesn't start at a young age.
It depends what you mean by specialized.
But like, it's no less specialized than the Spartans training.
Yeah, I mean, if anything, they show us a lot of stuff
that you'd want in general, physical training and stuff of that nature.
I mean, in the movie, don't they even refer to how one of-
I forget the chick's name, she's going to be a pilot in social trains
in like a different area or whatever?
Yeah, sure.
She joins the fleet.
Yeah.
And then you got the intelligence sector as well.
I think they might be referring to specialized in the form of like, special forces, perhaps.
There are special forces with very different skill sets,
like naval invasions, infiltration, insurrection, etc.
I guess they-
Sure.
Yeah, they're looking for more, because it's like generic training versus,
I guess, for the lack of a better term, specialized training being
very specific factions of the main military force, infantry anyway.
Yeah, I mean, these people are just being trained to be grunts.
Yeah.
It's the infantry grunts, so-
And again, these aren't necessarily the special forces.
That depends again on the book.
In the book, the mobile infantry are the special forces.
They're the best of the best.
In the movie, they seem far more like a mass recruit army.
Yeah, they seem like cannon fodder, pretty much, which is a little bit-
And then the reference to the Spartans, I think he said,
was because they're not trained from a very young age.
Yeah, but that too is because of their philosophy of politics.
You can't take on the responsibilities of the body politics at a very young age.
And they're also pros and cons to training from a very early age.
It's not definitively a plus to train them from super early?
No, no, it is definitively a plus to train your soldiers from childhood.
The thing is, the Galactic Federation or the Terran Federation, whichever we're talking about,
it's not a tyrannical society.
They've got a society to run.
Yeah, it's free.
That's kind of what I'm referring to when I say it's not definitively a plus in terms of,
there's lots of implications that come along with it.
If you're going to enforce something like that, there'll be ripple effects.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Militarily, obviously, it's the most efficient way of getting the best soldiers,
but they're a free society.
All of this is done by choice.
All right, yeah.
It'd be cool if he sort of develops a specialized thing.
How can students in the Federation to fight for them?
But overall, MI training is not overly specialized.
And more importantly, it often doesn't start at a young age
like the great soldiers of history and lore.
We see many recruits joining the mobile infantry as young adults,
go on.
That's an unfair characterization.
You bring up the Spartan, it's like, well, they're trained from the early.
Yeah, sure.
But you have tons of examples of incredibly effective fighting forces
that are not trained from the old age.
The modern-day Delta, the Green Berets, the SEALs,
you know, it's not incumbent upon them being trained from an early age.
It's the quality of the military training and also the political indoctrination.
This is why you saw the German Wehrmacht
being able to stand up to retarded odds again and again,
holding their positions against enemy tanks
whilst completely bereft of anti-tank weaponry.
And they weren't trained like that for like kids.
They were just soldiers, but they had superior training in morale.
And not, yeah, no, morale, that's the key factor in almost all warfare, I think.
Most warfare isn't actually about just murdering your opponents on mass.
That's something that was only really possible in the 20th century.
Yeah, it's getting them to surrender.
It's getting them to not want to fight.
Exactly.
It's about breaking their morale and making them run away.
And most war was based on that.
And that, I mean, don't get me wrong.
He is right when he says decades of training from childhood,
that's definitely the, you know, that'll give you excellent like stock infantry,
you know, the basic sort of level of the quality that you've got.
But like Arch points out, inspiration can really do wonderful things.
Like the Muslim invasions, in fact, are a great example of this
because they appear to have had a newly found religious fervor.
It seems to have given them a much more greater morale boost.
So they're attacked by like a gargantuan Byzantine Roman Empire army.
And they apparently hold it off just because they have the will to stand there.
And that's that's what most of it's about.
I think he's placing too much value on the whole like being trained from a young age thing.
Yeah, I mean, done wrong.
It is a very, very valuable thing.
And these people will become your elite soldiers.
But it's generally not the only thing.
And, you know, men who are who are just, I say, like indoctrinated in certain ways.
It's it's all in the mind.
It's all in the mind.
From Western armies.
To create true sociopathic killing machine space.
Wait, hang on.
Like, what?
I don't know that that should be you're not sociopathic.
Wait a minute.
That is not the point of military doctor.
In fact, it's the exact opposite.
You are trained to take orders and instructions.
You think that's fucking socks to your path.
It's like, oh, orders and large quantities and send them out into the world.
I just I'm used to it.
I'm abused by the idea that it's like we need to make them sociopaths.
It's like, oh, I mean, I get is the goal there to make it so that they're unwavering
when killing the enemy.
Is that the benefit with that?
Killing anyone around them.
I was about to say, like, surely there's going to be consequences making them sociopaths.
In fact, Robert Heinlein, the author of Starship Troopers, has a great quote on this, right?
It's war is not violence and killing pure and simple.
War is controlled violence for a purpose.
The purpose of war is to support your government's decisions by force.
The purpose is never to kill the enemy just to be killing him,
but to make him do what you want him to do.
That's exactly correct.
Like, soldiers are not sociopaths and you wouldn't want soldiers who are sociopaths.
Yeah, I figured that's not what you would want decommission.
People saying I should get dealt that.
What would be the quote?
Hang on, let me let me replay.
Let's see what he actually says fully there.
We see many recruits joining the mobile infantry as young adults,
as is common in modern Western armies.
To create true sociopathic killing machines,
space marine recruits need to be trained young
and not be raised in a bubble where they experience suburban education.
So for those of you who don't know, I actually happen to mention this randomly.
I think on the last defap, this is a soldier.
This is that movie that I. Oh, yeah.
This is the one.
This is it.
Where he's he's an ultimate killing machine soldier raised from birth,
basically a sociopath, and he meets some people on this planet
and he doesn't know how to interact with them in any way.
And he has to learn how to be a human, essentially.
Yeah, there's so much there's so much to unpack with this statement.
So much like we have to play this like five times or some shit.
I guess we should just get over it.
But like an education is a downside.
No, what education is how sophisticated modern warfare is.
You mean the tanks don't just drive themselves
and shoot themselves in the mortar crews?
Don't just he's obviously referring to education on love.
You shouldn't be.
In fact, in in the books, you get to go with it,
go through the process of Johnny Rico becoming an officer.
And he's got to do like a math degree and stuff like this.
And he hates it.
He's got to study all the time.
He spends the morning training.
Some people like to say that his journey in the film is becoming hardened.
And I wonder if this guy would refer to that as becoming more sociopathic by the end.
You know, like he's more absolutely I imagine he would.
Absolutely not.
I hate this kind of characterization, but I mean, I come from a military family, right?
So it's it's I, you know, I've grown up in on military bases, British military bases,
and the soldiers are not sociopaths.
They are people who actually think they're defending their country.
They're defending something worth defending.
He's like purporting that that's the goal with soldiers.
Like that's what we're trying to do.
Like I just signed up today, son.
I hate my emotions, sir.
I want to get rid of them.
Well, then we have the job for you.
I just like the don't educate them.
Like you wouldn't want smart soldiers.
That's not benefit.
They can't read the instruction manual for the tank if they can't read.
During the First World War didn't work out that well for them.
And then the Soviets were like, let's educate our dudes.
And he worked out way better.
And for clarification, I don't we can we can go over as many times as you want.
I'm going to play it again.
Let's see if we could actually like because this just it was there was a lot to take in.
See if there's anything else to it.
Because many of the soldiers in the mobile.
Oh, wait.
Infantry start their career so late.
They aren't desensitized to violence.
Oh, yeah.
I need to go back.
Sorry.
It skipped.
Mobile infantry as young adults, as is common in modern Western armies.
To create true sociopathic killing machines,
space marine recruits need to be trained young and not be raised in a bubble where
they experience suburban education because many of the soldiers in the mobile infantry
start their career so late.
They aren't desensitized to violence or the darkness of war.
Instead, we see.
All right.
So there is an aspect of that where you have to like you can't throw a random person into
a battle just there and expect them to cope with it.
I imagine I mean, a lot of them will be a little bit overwhelmed by the scenario.
So there's an amount of conditioning in terms of what you have to get soldiers to be able to
put up with, you know, gunfire.
A lot of it.
No, no, no, soldier and explosion.
No, no soldier begins their career desensitized to the horrors of war.
Like knows every soldier begins it.
No matter what age it is going, oh, shit, this is mental.
And then by the end of it, they're like Johnny Rico going, well, okay, I'm kind of
used to this.
You know, they they've they've grown capable of dealing with it.
Yeah, that's just but that's with almost everything.
That's like with that.
You do the same thing on a minor scale with new jobs.
Yeah, I was gonna say jobs are easy to compare for that.
It's like, oh, so this do this label that and make sure the machine is running.
And you're like, ah, I can't do this.
Yeah, normal.
We would.
Sorry, God.
Most jobs just don't involve the extremely visceral, you know, attributes that are
gunfire, explosions, people yelling and barking orders, the potential of being harmed.
So it's just the same thing scaled up.
It's the same sort of thing as working in a slaughterhouse.
But yeah, no, you're not inured to the thing the first time you start.
And yeah, you have to develop fortitude.
Yes, that doesn't mean you like it.
That doesn't mean you necessarily like it.
It's like, man, I fucking love blood.
He's like, no, I'm just used to blood.
It's like, how do you think doctors being doctors are like, oh, boy, you know,
the person to cut up if that's the reason I don't want to become a doctor?
As honestly, I have no interest in it.
I'm like, I'm not I'm not opening people up.
When you see all of it, wiggling around all all bloodied.
Yeah, I don't think I can handle it.
Like my missus loves watching the, you know, the post-mortem documentaries and like,
you know, open air, you know, surgeries, like celebrity surgery and stuff.
I'm just like, fucking, this is disgusting, darling.
I can actually see his heart beating.
You know, I don't want to see his heart beating.
The emotional mentally weak soldiers.
The mobile infantry experiences fear in the face of the enemy
and weak stomachs at the door of battle.
We certainly cannot.
Do you say, do you say they were weak minded because they?
Yeah, and they they they experience fear in the face of the enemy.
It's like there is no one who doesn't experience fear in the face of the enemy.
I was gonna say, isn't the whole point of courage that you've
experienced fear in the first place?
You can't really have it without that.
Yeah, and you overcome it.
Because despite your fear, it's if you're afraid of it, you don't choose to be afraid.
Fear is a biological response to stimuli.
You can't just be like, I just won't be afraid.
It's like, well, I got shit.
I'm afraid, but I got shit I have to do.
But anyway, that's what that's courage.
Yeah, exactly.
It's not about being weak minded.
I just want to hear that again.
Instead, we see emotional mentally weak soldiers.
The mobile infantry experience is mentally weak.
What would you even like?
I guess if you refer to somebody who's just had a meltdown and it can't even move on the battlefield.
Would you guys be comfortable referring to that as mentally weak?
I'm kind of curious what we would actually call that.
I would probably still find that a bit uncharitable.
Breakdown.
Yeah, I don't think it's fair to call that mentally weak.
All of the experience we have now with all of the doctrines, all of the training,
all of the research, it is still almost impossible to know how a soldier will react
to battle because it's an incredibly complex phenomenon.
And it doesn't necessarily have to be cowardice.
Like some people just don't deal with certain things as well as others.
Yeah, everyone's an individual.
There are literally examples where people have just gone blind.
Nothing's happened to them, but they've just been in a battle and lost their sight.
Like it's like men.
I'm not kidding.
This has happened multiple times.
The Greeks have actually documented there's multiple times.
They're not wounded, but they just lose the senses and now they can't see.
And it's like, well, fuck me.
That's a weird defense mechanism, isn't it?
It's the mind trying to prevent it.
See no evil, hear no evil.
Like you said, defend itself, yeah.
And also too, like what about all the veterans who have PTSD
and are struggling with that?
It's like, are they just weak minded?
Weak minded.
I don't think it would be comfortable with saying that.
Yeah, that's a horrific thing.
Oh my gosh.
It's such a position of privilege to say it as well.
Like someone who's come nowhere near any of the horrors of war.
It's like, oh, those people were weak minded.
Oh, shut up.
Just shut up before I slap you.
Face of the enemy and weak stomachs at the gore of battle.
We certainly cannot compare their training and preparedness
to special forces like the Halo ODST.
Wait, you think the ODST don't have that?
You think Space Marines and the ODST.
They're very human characters in ODST.
Yeah, they're very human.
Like you can see them.
There are cut scenes in Halo games
where they're like kind of panicking.
They're like, oh, shit, man.
Aliens are coming.
What are we going to do?
I'm sure if you drenched them in guts of their friends,
they'd probably be a little traumatized.
I feel like I would have recruited my work.
Oh, this is uncomfortable.
Are you OK?
I don't like this.
I don't like this.
Why this happens.
First life lesson.
Yeah, she's going to be just fine.
Listen, I would have been a lot better
if he was sociopathic and just left a corpse on the floor.
He was like, let's go, guys.
She's down.
It's only me and Berga's boring.
Just like, wow, I hit that once.
Never again.
Never.
If only we didn't lower the standards for her.
I'm going to say this early on here.
In many ways, the average mobile infantry soldier
from the Starship Trooper films is simply unfit
to deal with the harshness of war.
Um.
What do you mean they win?
No, they don't win.
They win a battle.
They don't win.
They win.
OK, yeah.
But the implication is the war is in control now, right?
Like, because of their victories.
It's going in the humans favor.
And yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Now that they've come to understand the threat
and they've learned.
I do want to reference the compound battle.
I'm pretty sure the KD is in the Starship Troopers favor.
Like, they're doing pretty well considering how small
of a force they have and the compound they have.
They would use it really well.
Like, it's, I don't know.
And they were unprepared for this.
They didn't expect this shit.
Like, I'm prepared.
I don't know.
Half hazard rush together defense is like, oh, shit.
They're coming.
What can we do?
And they did a good job because they stand fast.
They look out for each other.
Like, you don't see them all running away.
Like, like, oh, my God.
Literally none of the only one who flees is the general
from the who previously escaped by hiding in the cupboard.
Yeah.
And he was clearly something was happened to him mentally.
He was not all there.
He'd had one of these sort of like PTSD mental breakdowns
because everyone around him died all of a sudden.
And again, I don't call that being mentally weak.
So it's the thing.
It's like, I'm not sure how I would react to something like that.
Yeah.
I'd probably do the same, man.
And probably be kind of justified.
Also, someone said their teacher was missing a hand.
It's like, yeah, his arm was prosthetic.
It's like, he's kind of a bad.
And yet he was the fucking badass out of all of them.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
RadTech was amazing.
Because technology and society has advanced to the point
where life is pretty good.
Aside from giant alien bugs threatening to wipe out the entire time.
On the plus side, I like the fact that he's framed this
that the humans have done nothing wrong because that's true.
Oh, you mean about who started the war in Starship Troopers?
Yeah.
Because there's this still debate about that,
about the whole false flag thing.
Well, like people say it, but where's the evidence?
Well, right.
So it reminds me of some other sort of film discussions where it's like,
yeah, but what if the government sent the meteor at themselves
in order to justify an attack on the boat?
Pushed at 9-11 in space?
Well, that's the thing.
It's just like, I mean, isn't it on the film to show us that that would be the case?
Sure, but what if?
But like, where's the evidence that any of that is even worth talking?
Because all you need to do is just throw a character like a conspiracy theorist type guy,
but he actually has some significant bits of evidence so we can go, oh, maybe.
Yeah.
But I don't think the film ever even talks about it.
I'd have to scroll through it again to make sure, but yeah.
It's never hinted at that it's anything other than the bugs.
In the books as well.
There's no reason to think that it's a human, so it's false flagging themselves.
Because technology and society has advanced to the point where life is pretty good,
aside from giant alien bugs threatening to wipe out the entire human race.
The next flaw is a lack of discipline in the ranks.
The mobile infantry is just not a very impressively organized fighting force.
Soldiers open-
I don't know that I agree with that.
I totally agree with that.
Me neither.
Like, they have got a corporal discipline to the point where drilling structures are allowed to
break their chances of damage, stab them through the hands, have live fire exercises.
Remember, you need to strangle diz as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they all remain in fucking lockstep.
What's his name?
Zim.
Zim is like all over their asses all the time.
Like, they're really disciplined.
That's just an unfair thing to say.
I'm curious what he's basing this on.
Maybe he's going to have some evidence from stuff that I've seen.
I'm personally a fan of the co-ed showers, but that's just-
Oh, that's off duty. That's not fair.
That's what people do.
Well, they're not sociopaths, Rags. That's the problem.
Yeah, they got in trouble for it.
I'm pretty sure he says before this fight starts that he's like,
I can't attack you because you're a superior officer or whatever.
And then he's like, doesn't he say something like I'm off duty or something like that?
We'll ignore rank.
He fucking turns or takes off his jacket and is like,
rank is not an issue here.
Come at me, bro.
Yeah, this is humans having a disagreement.
There's a love triangle going on, right?
It's still nothing to do with being insubordinate.
More importantly, this is what young men do.
Young men do fight each other,
especially when they're arguing over a woman.
It's just stuff that happens.
Deal with it.
This might seem humane, but it's weakness in the face of Bug Scum.
It might seem humane.
I'm confused by the framing.
Weakness in the face of Bug Scum.
What will the bugs think if they see this?
You're embarrassing me in front of the bugs.
I know some people in chat said so the meteor came from,
it's hinted at by way of showing how far away the bug home in the
galaxy is that the bugs couldn't have propelled meteors that distance.
In less than a hundred thousand something.
I don't know what else we're going to say.
They toss them at earth without issues.
And they use something called gravity wells or something.
So it kind of looks like a wormhole, so it pops out.
I was going to say this might be something as opposed.
You might be highlighting a fact.
That's a bit of issue with this sort of space rules and how they've
justified it in terms of sci-fi rather than evidence of a,
you know, like in the same way that I say that a holder is a coward.
It's like, no, she, she, that's not what they were actually going for,
but it, but because of their retarded mechanics, you could totally make that argument.
Um, yeah.
And they said a hundred thousand years and they couldn't target earth accurately.
I guess they're arguing that that was the first rock thrown, but,
you know, there's always going to be a first rock.
Yeah, but they only threw it because the humans settled on a planet.
Right.
They were inhabiting.
Which if someone was to say that's proof of us throwing the first stone sort of thing,
it's like, well, it's not really fair.
Because the what they argue is that they were just settlers.
They weren't like, you know, which,
which is actually an interesting idea in terms of how a wall can start,
like misunderstandings and shit.
So if you have a bunch of humans landing on a territory,
that's not, yeah, that too.
Well, they didn't know they were there.
In fact, they have specifically told them not to go there.
No, it was in a, it was in a, in a quarantine zone.
So anything after it might be bugged, um, but they weren't sure.
I think, um,
the information thing said something like despite warnings or something.
Yeah, but that's just because of the broad zone of space it was in, I think.
Apparently the audio commentary makes it clear that the humans were the bad guys.
The one thing I have to make sure everybody remembers about something like that
is that Ryan Johnson will tell you that in his movie, The Last Jedi,
Poe made the wrong decision in the opening, but he didn't.
And that's because of his incompetence and portrayal of the scene.
And so if like, this is the thing about death of the author.
If the author tells you the Starship troopers doesn't have any weapons in it as a film,
like we don't, we don't agree with him.
He's not right just because he's the author.
That's not true.
There are weapons in it.
You know what I mean?
So like, it depends on how far you extend that and what the evidence is.
This is what was the name?
Vierhoven or something.
Yes, he did.
He didn't even read the book.
He literally says in the commentary.
I didn't read the book.
Then why am I listening to your opinions on it?
But he didn't read the book and didn't know it was a script.
You know, it's still interesting to hear what he thinks about his film, but
yeah, it is.
It is interesting to consider it all, I suppose.
It's honestly a miracle that Starship troopers came out as good as it came out.
And as as faithful to the canon as it was, considering how little Vierhoven spent
interacting with it, he was just like, no, this is just fascism.
Therefore, I'm going to pretend that it's fascism.
It's like trench coats.
That's fascism.
Yeah, exactly.
You he's like, look, I'm portraying fascism.
It's like, what, by dressing a guy up in a trench coat?
Like, why are you showing them?
Ledging allegiance to a constitution.
Like, why are you showing it?
You know, democratic processes.
Well, this is not fascism.
Look at look at these.
Look at these very wealthy people who oppose the government at all costs.
Typical fascism.
Can you leave the military whenever you want as well, right?
Yes.
Yes.
You're encouraged to actively encourage you.
Like the it's the whole thing is just not fascism.
This is pathism.
It's like, no, you're.
More importantly, he was accomplished.
He's like, don't be Nazis, guys.
Like, really?
Well, I mean, we're over here, but you shouldn't.
Hopefully we won't be Nazis.
I think he worked out.
I'm just glad someone finally said it.
Thank goodness.
Juan Rico pretty much does whatever he wants in the films.
He doesn't act like a leader committed absolutely to the defeat of aliens.
Wait, what did you say?
I got confused.
That he should be spending one hundred percent of his time being committed to
defeating aliens, which means not taking 10 minutes off to have a.
I mean, if the argument is that he'll be a more effective soldier,
I'm not even sure that's true.
Like to make yourself a balanced soldier, you're going to need like time off time to,
you know, not be a soldier.
Right.
Or maybe I'm maybe naive on that.
The best one is constant.
So relaxation is a necessary thing for human beings.
Celebrating victory.
Oh, my God.
Don't they call it R&R thing?
Yeah.
We know how much soldiers in the face of bug scum.
Juan Rico pretty much does whatever he wants in the films.
He doesn't act like a leader committed absolutely to the defeat of aliens.
When his lieutenant catches him engaged in human intercourse on the job.
Human intercourse.
Human intercourse.
Man, robot wrote this script.
Wait, look, you've seen this guy.
He doesn't know that much about human intercourse.
Human intercourse.
Well, he might have.
Why?
Why would he say that?
Baby Juan Rico was fucking the bugs and he needed to really play it out.
If he was raping the bug as an act of war, that would be fine.
Imperialism with my dick.
Yeah.
I can't even spell right now.
Engaging in human.
Did you think he meant to say sexual?
Human intercourse.
And for some reason he said human intercourse.
What in the world?
I didn't hear that again.
It's not going to defeat the bugs if we have a lot of human intercourse, is it?
That's what I'm having.
Xenomorph intercourse.
Human intercourse.
Like this is a clinical study.
When his lieutenant catches him engaged in human intercourse on the job,
he gives him more time to screw around before moving out to respond to a distress call.
Because he has time.
Yeah, they just want to battle.
He's not late.
This is just being an officer.
Like, okay, being an officer is a lot of questions of which hornet's nest do you wish to kick.
In this case, you've got your new fucking second in command,
shagging a girl that everybody knew was trying to bone him for fucking months.
It was like, I could make a big deal about this and cause all kinds of shit storm in my own unit.
Or I could just let them finish boinking and hurt no one.
Yeah.
You guys did just successfully fend off the bugs and win an important battle in this war
and never when celebrating and this harms us in no way whatsoever.
And then we'll go out and fucking kill some more animals.
Doesn't he say something like, get ready in five minutes and then he goes,
actually make that 10 minutes because he knows that he's going to need a sec.
And then they joke about how I was like, oh, we got that much time.
And it's like, yeah, and they're not late.
They make it.
Yeah.
That's not a fighting force that believes in a humanity.
First doctrine and it's because they had sex before they went on sex.
You do not believe in humanity.
Human intercourse is entirely antithetical to the human cause.
I see.
Again, I think that's just taking it a little bit far, but
a few days now.
Sure.
All right.
Is seriously committed to defeating a superior.
Don't let this guy on a fucking aircraft carrier.
He'll blow his mind.
Force.
Sure.
There are some discipline just a little bit tiny thing.
This is one of the many disciplines that held.
It's only a little bit disciplined to be whipped into a consciousness.
Don't worry.
Yeah.
In front of all of your comrade, it's going to say most lined up in their thousands to watch
your ass get fucking peeled off.
And most of these punishments that we see throughout the film are all in front of
large groups of people because they're making a point because it's effective.
Exactly.
Like, like, how could you argue?
Like they show a lot of it, honestly, with distress call.
That's not a fighting force that believes in a humanity.
First doctrine and is seriously committed to defeating a superior bug.
Force trying to lose to the bugs.
You could win the war, but yeah, put your genitals away.
The bugs will win this way.
Yes, I, I'm not sure what this guy wants out of like, is it just castrate them once they join.
What, what, what, what he's doing is.
Oh, God.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I feel like what he's doing is he is arguing this
caused from a comparison to 40K space Marines in which they are purpose crafted killers.
And he's like, he's complaining that with humans.
Like you can't compare the two.
Dip gets flogged for getting a fellow soldier killed,
but the rules of the mobile infantry seem inconsistent.
At best, I mean, guys and girls shower together in the mobile
infantry. What kind of ridiculous oversight is that?
It's not an oversight.
Yeah, I thought the point with that was that there were no
they weren't dealing with the same issues.
You'd expect for something like that in those in that future.
I do have to say, I think that is wild.
The ultimate doesn't give a shit.
Yeah, I, I don't think that'll ever probably happen.
There's got to be a pretty substantial change in the general view of men and women.
But what's interesting, though, is that when they the cast only agreed to do that
coed shower scene if the director agreed to shoot it naked himself and he did.
Is that true?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's well, that's what I've heard.
I think it's true.
So take that with a grain of salt.
But yeah, that's what I that's what I've heard.
Sounds hilarious.
I want to know if it's true.
Paul Viohovin was like, I got to get this naked scene.
I'll do it.
These to happen to make a point that will eventually be counted by the YouTube video.
To make the point that Nazis back.
Yes.
Inconsistent and sloppy at best.
I mean, guys and girls shower together in the mobile inventory.
What kind of ridiculous oversight is that?
This is a core of soldiers that is just as much threatened by disarray and its ranks
as it is by killer arachnids.
If the bugs don't get them, me too will.
Oh, OK.
To be fair.
Yes, me too is a more ferocious threat than the fucking bugs I agree.
Yes, it's definitely though.
I will say this is certainly framing problems of the future where there
apparently are no problems with the issues of the present.
I don't I don't I think if it was an issue that was really just destroying
from the inside out.
The that's crazy.
How is he going to get through this set of points when he's already halfway
through the video almost?
I guess we're going to start running through him quick or something.
I don't know.
He's running out of time.
You have battle gear.
Now, a lot of you in the know are going to say, actually, the mobile
infantry gear is exactly what sets them apart from other space forces.
After all, their powered suits, as devised by author Robert Heinlein,
was foundational in the field of futuristic military fiction.
And we are going to discuss that as an advantage in our next video.
But for this video, as the power suits are mostly absent from much of the
Starship Troopers film franchise, we are going to look at the standard
mobile infantry gear in this video and such.
Yeah, I notice he had the asterisk for live action.
But it's like, well, I mean, are we not going to count the the there was like
a 2012 a Starship Troopers movie is like a fully animated one.
I think it's a Japanese one is very anime like where they had these suits of armor
that you could fly up and down in them.
And they had rockets on their backs and all sorts of crazy Japanese stuff.
They did say at the beginning that they were just counting those for now.
I'm looking at the movies and the novels first.
Yeah, all right.
But they are actually canon and they are actually awesome as well.
Yeah.
And in the film, I didn't really enjoy the that that film.
I know the one you're talking about.
I can't remember the name off hand, but I didn't enjoy the film that much.
But the some of the action scenes where the the the suits are being used,
they are genuinely as good as portrayed in the book.
Starship Troopers invasion, I believe it was called in 2012.
They definitely have a lot more mechs and exoskeletal stuff and big armor, big guns.
Pretty much what you would expect here.
Let's see.
I don't know if you want to show it or not.
But there's very much some what you'd expect to see in spacey armor.
They kind of look like these people kind of.
Yeah, it looks pretty great in the in the movie as well.
Yeah, it doesn't look ridiculous to the point of silliness, which is what you would expect.
Well, it looks live in the movie.
It looks live and mobile and active.
You know, and yeah, it looks competent.
It's really well done in the film.
Yeah, it does have an amount of utility to it that you'd expect to see.
I could see how this would be very, very effective in helping you stay alive and kill bugs and stuff.
And in the book, it's great as well.
They you first introduced them fighting the skinnies, I think it is.
And they're just bounding around this giant city on this planet,
just dropping taknukes on places and then just jumping to the next area of the city
to drop another one and just shooting bug skinnies and whatnot.
It's pretty awesome stuff.
And aren't there wasn't there a there wasn't Roughnecks is what it was called.
There was those series of films that were in the Starship Troopers things.
Oh, I didn't see those.
Remember that they they're they're definitely older.
But here, let me show you from that.
Definitely older.
But even then is like, that's not like unreasonable.
No, no, it's not as good as the previous one.
No, it's fine.
Do the job.
Yeah.
Gear doesn't differ much from what we see available to modern day SWAT teams or armies.
Mobile infantry soldiers in the films are equipped with a helmet.
Fucking LS screenshot.
Yeah, could you have found a slightly better image to show off?
That is a deep fried screenshot right there.
Yeah, this is like I think this was recorded with the toaster.
Oh, pretty good.
Pretty good for toaster thin body armor, gloves and combat boots.
This would be fine if the mobile infantry was deployed against human enemies, but they're not.
They have to know I'd say the opposite.
I would thought he would say the opposite point where because if they were being deployed
against human forces, which would use like guns and stuff, then they would perhaps be
armored in a different way.
But against these bugs, I kind of feel like could you actually give feasible armor to all
of the people that would stop the attacks of these bugs?
We take a lot of resources to arm them up to the point where bug attacks are able to affect them.
Yeah, or at that point, it's just better to be as I just wish I could move a little faster,
I guess at this point.
At no point does the armor seem to have any particular fucking use anyway, because Hollywood.
And that also is a bit of an interesting thing,
because they mentioned during the live fire exercise where the guy gets his head blown up
because he takes off his helmet helmet on.
Yes.
And they seem to suggest as if they're there, it's not like normal body armor,
it's composite Kevlar.
So it's got several ablative layers, like it dissipates the energy.
They make it sound as if it would actually be fairly effective against bullets.
And considering the large caliber weapons they're using, if anything,
I'm surprised the bugs have enough energy in their fucking pincers to get through them.
Well, when you look at the seven six to close range, that's a lot of energy.
I mean, yeah, these helmets are they're no joke.
They look like they're pretty, they're pretty thick.
But yeah, I it looks thin.
I guess the armor looks thin on the front sort of, but I don't know what it's made out of.
Yeah, I was going to say as well, but the film makes a lot of points about how they're
studying the bugs to figure out how best to fight an arm, you know, against them.
So like, and this is this is early in the war, the first film, and like, that's where it's
starting to be very reasonable to assume that their gear will reflect their enemies the longer
they fight them, because I'm assuming it goes on for a long time with the amount of
starter troopers films that came out.
Was it like four or five mainline films?
I lost track.
I think it's five, five, five official ones, but only one was good.
Yeah, the third I have potential.
If that movie's smaller, Starship Troopers three in particular is insanely bad.
Yeah, it's not one of the the flashlights.
Was it called Marauders?
That one something like that.
I forgot.
I watched it a long time ago, and even my my young person, noncritical brain was like,
this is so shit.
I think if I recall correctly, Traitors of Mars was all right.
I mean, was it that one?
Traitors of Mars is the animated, second animated.
Yeah, again, I thought I thought was OK.
Yeah, I thought that was OK.
I like the Amy Snap woman, who the the young genius Sky Marshall, who was a massive psycho.
Well, I like that it's quite a lot alike.
I do appreciate it.
Yes, yes.
Anyway, yeah, they're looking I want to see like the armor looks a little they look similar,
but you know, you could just kind of see them.
And you're like, man, that looks pretty pretty good.
Oh, apparently two was Marauders.
Three was Godbug.
Oh, yeah, yeah, because they meet like the the queen god of the bugs.
And it's got an Aztec name and it's really weird.
All right.
Mobile infantry soldiers in the films are equipped with a helmet,
thin body armor, gloves and combat boots.
This would be fine if the mobile infantry was deployed against human enemies,
but they're not.
They have to fight aliens and their armor clearly does little to stop
soldiers from being impaled by the bugs or having limbs bitten off.
One would think a few.
Yeah, so like at what point when you take the start of the bug war happening,
this is a whole new threat.
This is not something we've ever fought before.
We don't have equipment specialized for this because this is a very very clearly
a very specialized enemy that we're fighting.
They were probably aware of what the bugs are, but the best they could probably come up with
was like, well, we'll just go for like a standard sort of outfit.
And then as as we fight them, we'll get better known in terms of
what the fuck we're supposed to do against them, I guess.
Probably.
It just seems reasonable to me.
I don't know.
I don't really expect them.
I mean, this film would be shit if they had the kind of armor that meant
the the bugs couldn't do anything.
Right.
We'd just be like, well, that was fun.
You see it in the end where they've got like all these new newly developed weapons
and stuff like that, you know, as it's exactly as you say,
they're fighting an unknown enemy and they're learning as they go.
Like war.
Yeah, it's like life.
A futuristic army that lives in a world of ubiquitous advanced tech
would have designed armor that was capable of protecting its soldiers against the enemy.
But you can't you can't just say that.
Like it's like, oh, you're fighting X enemy.
Shouldn't you have made armor that defends you perfectly against X enemy?
It's like, I don't know.
It depends on what the enemy is.
Can't just say it's a lead.
Weapons and armor are in a constant race.
Arms race.
It would be funny.
Where we get the phrase arms race.
It's not just development.
It's we have to we have to find out what would work and we have to find a way
to feasibly replace all of the army's equipment with this stuff.
And that takes time.
And even if we find something that is objectively better,
we might not be able to afford it.
Like mass producing it.
Yeah.
We have far better armor right now than the standard base your body arm
we give to soldiers, but it's ruinously expensive.
Okay.
I have to I have to interrupt yourself.
Okay.
No, no, no, no, no.
Look, we're not even allowed to take 10 minutes off to have a shag, right?
This is definitely a lack of commitment to winning the war against the bugs.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
You mean human intercourse.
Sorry.
Yes.
Human intercourse.
I stand corrected.
Logistics is for people who want to lose this war arch.
Come on.
Sure, sure.
Um, someone said the, uh, the Marines and aliens had no idea how crap their body
armor would be against the aliens.
In fairness to this guy, I'm sure he's he's, uh, the starter troopers,
they knew a little more about their enemy than the fucking Marines and aliens did.
Right.
That was a complete surprise.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, they're all wearing exactly the kind of armor you would expect.
It's like a standardized sort of thing.
It's going to be able to defend you against a lot, but not everything.
And then, you know, think of like the plasma blast the aliens have.
And it's just like, what do you make all the defense against that?
I don't know.
Destroying your entire fleet.
Why didn't you make it so his armored against this?
Yeah.
You're in advanced society.
You have resources.
Like, I don't think it's that simple, dude.
Of course, it's possible that the United Citizen Federation's leaders
are just giant a-holes.
We don't think the cost to protecting each and every soldier is worth it.
All right.
All right.
Why weren't they?
Yeah, these are just automatons that do nothing but war.
24 hours a day.
Who cares about protecting them?
I don't even know that it's even possible.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
I want to mention, okay, like you've got a question then.
Right.
Do we protect five soldiers really well or do we protect 500 soldiers?
Okay.
Well, that's why in World War One, like, especially when it came to helmets and stuff,
when they, they, I think the British army in particular, they were like,
all right, so this war has begun.
We can give all of our guys, for at least, we can give all of them a helmet.
And that did an insane amount of good for preventing loss of life.
Instead of, let's take five guys and armor-clad them, just like the good old days.
Or we can give everybody a helmet and that will do a whole bunch.
Yeah.
Super Chat just came in that's kind of relevant, I guess.
It says, this is a bit bizarre.
Y'all realize that in the book this movie is based on,
it had them all in Spartan-esque power armor.
So his armor complaint holds.
It depends.
It depends.
Are we mixing canon?
I was about to say, what are we addressing right now?
The book or the film?
Yeah, in the case of the film, they're two very different universes.
The book not only has a vastly smaller army, but it also has a much larger Terran Empire.
Like, they're actively engaged already in one interstellar war that's been going for ages.
And its troops are the literal elite, the best of the best.
It's no recruit army, like in the movies.
Yeah.
And they're sent really far away, right?
It's a very complicated situation to get all of your men
armor that prevents them from being attacked by an enemy you don't quite understand yet.
Well, I say miles light years away.
And I'm pretty sure this guy was specifically talking about the film.
I don't think he's been saying anything, but he's been showing shit from all the film.
Stuff and he's just he he sees it as a contradiction that the mobile
infantry aren't better equipped because I don't know that the Terran Empire
should get better resources to them or whatever.
And it's just like thinking of how many there are in the film.
That's true.
They probably should be better equipped.
But that's why Heinlein gave them fucking power armor.
And there's also, of course, the logical question of the fact that this was a live
action movie.
And back then, they probably couldn't give them that stuff.
I mean, they do pretty well anyway.
Like he he made it seem like it's they get dominated.
But like for every Marine, they get quite a few significant kills on the enemy.
I guess he's specifically focusing on their defenses.
But as Rags are saying earlier, it's like the more defenses you pile on to an individual trooper,
the less movement they're very likely to have.
Yeah.
And generally, it's better to have, you know, protection than mobility for the most part.
But like, what's the trade off?
If the armor does nothing, right, then at what point do you say, you know, I'll just go without.
But I mean, the helmets clearly did something.
They were told to wear those.
And I don't know what is the extent of the armor in this.
And it doesn't look like it weighs a lot.
So go for it.
The Tehran Empire.
The best defense is always to just not get fucking hit in the first place.
Autus said that to the people who don't like our Mandalorian criticisms.
Office said they're studying bugs in their high schools, for fuck's sake.
Yes, true.
But they still don't know everything.
They're ongoing.
Well, they make very clear and they're completely blown away by the
the air attack, the air assault they have on their ships takes serious damage from that.
So and you might be like, yeah, well, that's their own fault for running in.
It's like, well, simultaneously, they don't have the information that they need.
They're not even sure that they're sentient.
Remember the idea of a bug that thinks they're all it's all being figured out.
Yeah.
And the bug they were studying school was an arachnid sand beetle.
One of the slave worker cars.
Best is one of the most basic bitch life forms available.
And you can also see through the information videos later on that it's only when they're
in active combat with them that they release like, you know, no, your enemy arachnid warrior,
aim for the nerve stem.
So clearly they are learning then.
And I'm just trying to think to myself, like, you know, the the primary attack,
if you can call it that, from the arachnids, where they just throw their jaw down onto the
well, any one of the soldiers, the kind of armor you would need to prevent that from doing
anything with how it's shown in the film seems like it would be the kind of armor that would
simultaneously be extremely heavy.
Like, you if you were wearing a plate that can prevent them from piercing it.
Just just from what we're shown, I'm all I'm only basing that on that.
Like, this is a sci fi film so they can easily just say now we have, you know,
it's controlled by exoskeletal this and that and the other thing.
If this armor as as they seem to hint at is able to reliably stop 762 rhymes at a couple dozen
meters, then the force of that arachnid attack has to be tremendous.
Yeah, and I could I can believe for the sake of like immersion in the film,
I can totally.
I can totally see and believe that a big bug of this size with its pincer could stab
straight through it at close distances.
Yeah.
Oh, right.
I'm fine with that.
Pretty big doesn't look that.
Yeah, the armor doesn't look that thick.
And it's probably not designed for that specific.
Okay, sure.
It's it doesn't that doesn't bother me.
But I don't think we ever see in the movies someone getting shot in the armor by a bullet.
Now, there's only hint that during the training ground where he says,
like, Did you order a man to take off his helmet?
Yeah, the information being the helmet prevented it.
Yes, they were doing a live fire exercise at that point.
So you'd think that they'd have protection.
And I truly believe the helmet would stop a bullet.
That thing is big.
That is a that is a helmet stop bullets.
Yeah, it needs to be a little bit of an angle, but they do.
Yeah, they will.
They're surprisingly tough, tougher than a lot of people give them credit.
And as said, we do have to really recognize our mobility is super important against these
things.
Like, yeah, it's not like they're trying to kill you at a distance.
They're a mobility would certainly be more than a meter of you.
You should be panicking because like, oh, in fact,
the the traitors of Mars picture you put where he's jump jetting away from the horde of bugs.
That seems actually really great because he's essentially putting the suit together as he's
running away.
Yeah, it's and yeah, you jet pack.
Yeah, no, it's really cool.
Actually, he's sort of like, you know, does all these roles, straps all the stuff in,
then jet packs away, turns around and just starts launching rockets down onto this huge
swarm of bugs that are coming.
And that's the kind of elite soldier that they produce in the books.
But I'm sure for budgetary purposes, it wasn't possible back in like 97
when whatever is Starship Troops made.
I mean, I will say that like, you know, there was space for them to exist in that film.
It's just that we weren't following those that we weren't made aware of special teams.
You know, we were following grunts on the ground.
Yeah, it makes more interesting more story.
Yes.
Okay, I stand corrected.
That's a giant a-hole.
It's a weird thing to unpause.
Yeah, naturally.
Next, we have to cover weaponry.
The standard weapons used by the mobile infantry are the marita assault rifle.
That's not the marita.
Why the fuck whistle?
That's the advanced thing they have at the end of the bloody film.
Yes.
Get it right.
Is this the best picture that you could get of the weapons?
He's got like, he's got like HD clips mixed in with like screenshots that are all tizzly.
I don't know what's going on.
That is that is great.
Like that is something I would make in like first year of my 3D design class.
The E pulse 44 rifle, the marita three assault rifle, combat knives,
the E pulse, rocket launchers.
What is that?
That's a tactical nuke.
That's a tactical nuke.
Yep.
Okay.
Looks funny.
It's useful to have.
Oh, are you talking about the one I posted in Discord?
No, no, no, the one on the screen.
Oh, sorry.
I was talking about the Discord one.
Yeah.
Oh, that's clearly a gun.
Yeah.
Okay.
Obviously.
It's not a box.
It's clearly a gun.
And even the ones in Traders of Mars look cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nukes.
The nukes we will list as an advantage and talk about in the next video.
As for the rest of these weapons, well, they are fairly advanced in practical terms
and can be effective in combating the arachnids if a mobile infantry soldier
has good enough aim to hit the nerve stem.
However, none of these weapons are that impressive or provide the books.
And while most of their guns are akin to modern-day firearms,
they're actually bigger and clunkier than modern-day weapons
and provide a huge disadvantage in close quarters combat with giant aliens.
All right.
So that one, the fact it doesn't have a stock is already a huge issue.
And again, I need to know what caliber do they fire?
You got to remember it.
Morita is 7.62.
Send a NATO round.
But you've got to remember that Hollywood knows nothing about guns.
Well, yeah, I think this is an aspect of Hollywood not knowing anything about guns.
They are way, way too big.
They're weird, plasticky.
They're supposed to look like big future 90s space guns.
They don't have the compactness or the ergonomics of what you'd expect from modern stuff.
As you can see, for instance, the ones from traders of Mars, they look a lot more reasonable.
But these are just silly.
Sure.
These look a little cartoony.
They're like really chunky.
The one on the screen right there, that's the plasma of Orion.
So it's supposed to be even bigger and better.
One of the excuse why the assault rifle is so big as it is,
unusually so, is supposedly is simplifying around at incredibly high velocities of armor piercing,
which would definitely be useful against the armored bug.
Although it doesn't seem to be that useful.
And it has a remarkable magazine capacity of a hundred rounds.
Where the fuck they put all of that?
I don't know.
I just want to say in its defense, I don't see the bugs as being like weirdly tough as a problem.
I don't think that's a problem.
If you were going to develop essentially what is just a living weapon of spikes and blades to go
and run forth and kill things en masse, you probably would make it so that it didn't feel
very much pain when it was shot and, et cetera, et cetera.
Let me look up the there is a Merida rifle.
Let's see.
It looks like the ones from the first movie were these very and I will say these are very
silly ish guns, certainly, but they're I could see how they work
because they have the shotgun underneath them, too,
which could be handy.
But they don't really get into a lot of specifics and some of these sites sites.
Well, this site is shite.
It's not telling me what caliber the rifle is, and it's specifically dedicated to it.
I don't believe there is actually that much in the way of like hard law on these weapons.
The only one I know that there is some lore about is the Morita
Mark one, which was almost like a hundred rounds, seven, six, two,
fifty ones and then a thirty seven shotgun underneath with, I think, eight rounds or something.
As a weapon, it's not it's not fully retarded.
It's OK.
It's it's again, if you're sacrificing, you know, you're making it bigger and you're
bulkier for extra velocity armor patient capabilities in a hundred round magazine,
which again, I don't have a face clue where they fucking put then.
All right.
In human of a human combat, it would absolutely be inferior to our current weaponry,
but they're not fighting humans.
Yeah, I I think it's just a case of 90 space future gun.
It's it's kind of like the ones from Alien.
They're they're very they they definitely have that aesthetic to them.
I love the look of the aliens ones.
I'll kill you.
Yeah, certainly.
You could you could certainly look at that and then look at this one,
the marita and be like, yeah, I could see that there's definitely an aesthetic
thing that happened in the that that's going on here.
And it seems to work well enough.
And if the issue is that they don't have something that works better,
it's like I want you to understand the difficulty that it takes to replace the
rifles of a galactic army and the issues that it would take for you to do that in
terms of not only making enough of them and getting them to all the troops,
but making sure they have all the parts that they need,
that they all are trained in the operation of the weapon
that they have all the kinks and the bugs worked out.
Also, he describes it as like clunky in a sense that it's detrimental to them.
It's like I don't remember there being any scenes in the first film where like
the gun's size and operation prevents them from being able to utilize it correctly.
It always seemed like they were able to be handled.
Obviously, these are by being.
Yeah, the issue would be on the actors, not the characters.
But yeah, it was a modern day weapons and provide a huge disadvantage
in close quarters combat with giant alien bugs.
And what would I know, though, the idea is you're supposed to be a distance with the
bugs, though you don't want to be right next to him.
Take that as granted, like it provides a disadvantage in close quarters combat, right?
Let's say that you didn't have that disadvantage.
You're still a human fighting as a giant fucking arachnid.
I was going to make that point.
There is there is no advantage to close quarters combat with these creatures.
Well, what disadvantage does it bring specifically that he's talking about?
That it's I guess it will slow you down a little bit.
I guess like little his inherent size and ergonomics.
Sure, but that doesn't seem to be like it seems insignificant
compared to your other issues at that point.
Yeah, right.
If they had been given a combat knife.
Yes, I would go.
It's a slightly smaller advantage, but still a fucking semi trailer.
Yeah, at that point, I'm not like the soldier is not going to be going off.
Only this rifle had better ergonomics.
If only it had a bayonet.
I could totally fight this two meter tall murderer's insect.
The ammunition in these firearms isn't even that much different than the
ammunition used in standard firearms today.
Define standard firearms, because when you say standard, OK, first off, I have no.
So that looks like.
Yeah, I don't know what he means by standard.
There's no standard for what.
But in his hands, he's got these.
It looks like they've taken 762 casings and made these big black things on the front.
It's probably pretty hefty.
It's a that's a big ass bullet.
It's a really big.
They're just standard bullets, right?
Do you not understand?
They're like our standard bullets.
We have bullets standards.
OK, it's fine.
That's different than a standard bullet.
Bullet.
It really shows a training round being given to children.
So, you know, I'm sure it's got the safety on.
Children have gun rights to arch.
Yeah, well, I'm thinking that if even if those are training round,
then they would still be able to be put into guns,
which means that the real ones are going to have bill.
It's that big, too, which are really big.
Yeah.
Like I said, from the lower, those we know those are 762s,
51s, which the reason there's a reason why most of the armies around the world
have gone like, no, let's go five, five, six instead.
Because 762 51 is too big for virtually all scenarios.
We're starting to see a lot of movement.
I think we're starting to move towards like stuff like six point eight
and a lot more three oh eight stuff nowadays, too.
But because it's but a lot of that's because the gun technology is a lot better.
Like we can put that round into guns nowadays,
and it's not as big of an issue as it used to be.
But yeah, if they're shooting big big bullets like that at bugs,
that's going to hurt.
That's going to hurt a buck.
I mean, they do it, you know, like they do.
I mean, you could see it.
Yeah.
The thing about it is right.
So if someone said like, yeah, it doesn't kill them very fast
or doesn't do enough.
I'd be like, you do get that.
Like the damage is very much conducive to movie as in like
if they did any better, they would dominate.
And if they did any worse, it would be like shit to watch
because the humans would just get annihilated.
So it's like a post thing, but just just the bullets do well enough that I can believe.
And I think it's reasonable to believe that they were designed to kill these bugs,
but they don't do so good that it's like a rail gun with each shot.
That just fires through all of them.
Right.
So there's like a happy middle and it does require that you aim as well.
It's not as simple as shooting them.
So these, um, these bullets, like the ones that he's shown here,
these are like 7.62 by the, these aren't the ones in his hands are, are not that they're 7.62.
Something else that the bullet at the end of that is definitely much bigger than a typical one,
which doesn't surprise me because a lot of it is, hey, we can't all of a sudden
re equip the rifles of our galactic army, but we can start giving them a special ammunition
that is designed to kill bugs better.
That is way more believable.
And I would buy, I'd buy that in a heartbeat.
I don't think that's a problem at all.
Well, you're racist.
So well, I guess they're simply not made for defeating bugs, but it does.
I mean, you can't say that categorically.
They are truly.
Yeah.
Maybe the trick, maybe they existed before they intended to do anything to bugs,
but like they are provided as a, they do kill bugs.
That's kind of where we're going with it.
They do a good job of killing bugs.
Yeah.
There are numerous examples being shot.
If you were like the nuke, it was not designed to kill bugs.
And you're like, yeah, but it does like really well.
It was only designed to kill the Japanese.
Yeah.
My shoe wasn't designed to kill cockroaches, but it just so happens that it works.
Our next flaw is tactics, the mobile infantry, along with their lack of discipline.
All right.
So we can't, uh, little bit of a thing.
If we're going to discount these movies, you can't keep showing clips from these
movies to especially try and make an example.
Like if you're, if you're going to say that this is a little bit of speculation
for the point of drama, I suppose, but if you're going to criticize this movie
for a fault, then you have to also give this movie the benefit
for something else that you criticized earlier.
You can't pick and choose is like, is this, is this movie part of the thing
you're looking at or not?
You can't say it does.
Maybe this is just B roll right now.
Like he's not actually maybe, but even then that's the criticism on saying,
yeah, we're not going to count these movies at all.
Here's clips from all of these movies, but you're not allowed to talk about them.
Okay.
I guess has poor battlefield strategy.
In other words, the inferiority of their weapons is only compounded by their crappy tactics.
Once again, the mobile infantry's tactics are more suited for human on human warfare.
Something that is no, I don't think so.
I think the way that they engage enemies in this movie, there's like, especially at the beginning
battle, I think that there's no way that if they were assaulting like humans, they would just land
all their dudes and just run towards the enemy and massive formations.
That's the thing.
You see that tactic and you're like, what are the enemy?
It's like, actually, it's a bunch of evolved cockroaches.
You're like, huh.
Yeah, okay.
It's an enemy against which concentration of fire is far more important than not getting
hit by ranged weapons because the bugs don't fucking have any.
Yeah.
Yep.
So exactly right.
I think he's just wrong on this one.
You adapt your tactics to the enemy.
In fact, if you were to do this with humans, you'd be insane.
Like the way that they attack.
Yeah, but not only that, like a thing about how they capture the brain bug or whatever,
they glass the planet and then they send them down the bug holes to find the bug.
What else?
What are the tactics you're going to use?
Well, don't you do that with humans?
What else are you going to do?
You glass humans and then search for the human brain.
What you do is you get their all kind of orbital bombardments to soften the enemy to a point
where you feel is sufficient.
Then you send in the troops because it takes troops to occupy, you know, areas.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I don't, but I mean, let's, let's see what he says.
Maybe he's not good on it.
Go on.
It's largely a thing of the past in Starship Troopers.
Following the meteor attack on Buenos Aires, the United Citizen Federation launched an
attack on Klandathu, the bug's home planet.
The results were devastating for the mobile infantry.
The plan was to have Federation forces swarm and assault the planet en masse.
This would spread out and eliminate any bugs in their path.
The plan ultimately backfired due to the Federation's arrogance and abysmal strategy.
Which they learned from.
I was going to say, this happens a lot.
But he's not wrong there.
That was bad tactics.
Just jumped straight to the homeworld and with a bunch of green troops
and assumed that you can take it.
That's pretty silly.
So he's not wrong there.
Strategy.
And they did learn from that and kick him off.
But tactically, that's actually sound like you're engaging an unknown enemy.
Like the officers on the ground have no say in this and they've been just being told to go there.
Okay.
You don't know much.
What about you doing?
Our basic tactic is going to be secure a bridgehead,
find out, engage anything you find with extreme prejudice and hold your ground.
Like, considering the lack of information, that's about it.
I was going to say, maybe I'm wrong.
But I thought the whole reason they thought that this was like, yeah,
this will fucking work is because they're bugs.
They're just bugs.
Who cares?
Yeah, they didn't know.
They're underestimated.
The tenacity in numbers.
Yeah, which I think is I can see that.
Like I can totally believe that that would be considered a decent tactics.
Like we find an army of bugs.
Just go in there and wipe them out.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I just want to stress the fact that they're actually losing the water.
The bugs is actually really strong in the story's favor.
The point is that the bugs are not like, you know, weaker incompetent or helpless or stupid.
They're actually not.
They're just really different, you know, but they still are very strong,
very smart and very, very clever, tactical.
And when it comes to all of this stuff and they seem to be resolved to fight a long war.
So it's, you know, the point is this is an enemy that you just have to beat.
There's no other option.
There's no negotiation.
There's no, there's no diplomacy.
There's no discourse.
They just want you destroyed.
And the fact that they, they do learn from this,
they behave in ways that makes sense to a, you know, it's not unreasonable.
Oh, it's totally rational response.
The human response though is totally rational.
It's like, right.
Okay.
So we, we, we get, we get our shit kicked in on Klandathu when we're not expecting it.
Right.
You know, obviously whatever scanning and whatnot they've done.
And they didn't realize that the bugs had, um, meat like, uh, air defenses for the
artillery, the bug equivalent.
Yeah.
And it's not their fault.
They didn't know this, you know, but okay.
So yeah, like you say, they go in and they get kicked in and then they do learn from
and then they have to adapt their tactics.
How boring would it be if they just succeeded at every step of the way?
It's like, okay.
And I thought that was easy, a relevant super chat.
Oh my God.
Are you defending the first invasion?
That was deliberately supposed to be bad on every level on purpose.
Yeah, but there's nothing in Congress about it.
Yeah.
Think about it.
You, you don't know the enemy.
You assume they're retarded bugs.
You have no overriding strategic information other than go attack.
What would your strategy be other than fan out engaged targets as you find them?
Yeah.
I think I guess the argument would be they did what anyone would be expected to do with
the information they had.
I suppose the criticism could be that they should have waited to discover more,
like send probes.
I don't know, but the bugs are regularly shelling earth with meteors.
Yeah.
They kind of want to kill them and kill them fast sort of thing.
And yeah, exactly.
Millions of people have already died.
You can't just hang around, you know.
But, um, and yeah, they don't, uh, it's not a complete failure, right?
They do some damage from what I remember.
They just show blowing up the artillery.
Obviously there's going to be more than just those two, but, um,
yeah, they learn from it.
Um, and I think that to expect anything but perfection in terms of military tactics is
completely unrealistic.
You need lots of information and you need to engage it because we covered, um, a person
before who, you know, the point he, this is the point you made regardless.
He said that Tywin was like a really bad tactician in game of thrones and the evidence would be
losing to Rob Stark.
It's like, yeah, he lost to Rob Stark, but there was, it's perfectly reasoned exactly
why he lost and that, uh, Tywin's probably one of the best tacticians outside of, I think,
Randall Tarley in the Westeros from what I remember how to explain it, but he had a failure.
That means he sucks.
It's like, I don't think it's that simple.
Literally almost.
I mean, the number of generals who never lost a battle, you could count on like one hand
is a very tiny, like think of the greatest generals, like Julius Caesar lost battles.
You know, I mean, Alexander the great, one of the few who didn't,
although you could argue that certain points have been like, you know, reverses that you
could count as losses, I suppose.
But yeah, it's just the nature of war.
And if you're doing a video that's like tactics, uh, why Starship Troopers mobile entry are bad,
it's like, are we going to count all of the good tactics or are we just looking at the bad ones?
Yeah.
Yeah, they, yeah, you can go ahead and go ahead.
Fashion, they lacked artillery or air support and relied on numbers.
They tried.
All right.
So yeah, there should have been under weapons.
Yeah, or either weapons or equipment, something like that.
But also, what if their tactics revolved around the fact that they didn't really have that at
their disposal at the time, but he does make you a point.
I mean, they should have had all of these.
Yes, they should have had tanks.
They should have had their sport.
He is correct that this was badly handled.
But yeah, this is conquered Air Force, Air Force, Air Force, Air Force,
tanks, tanks, tanks, artillery, artillery, and then infantry at the end.
Especially under weapons and equipment, but it is really retarded that this mobile
infantry does not possess these things.
You could make the argument that perhaps they simply haven't developed the technology to
transport this effectively yet.
But if they've got those enormous ships, surely they have the space to put some tanks on there.
You know what it is, though, don't you?
It's because the mobile infantry in the book don't need it.
They are the tanks.
They are the artillery as well.
You know, they've got, as you can see from the screenshot,
they've got all the straps in the back.
So they're checking around tank nukes.
Heinlein didn't write them having tanks because they didn't need the tanks.
It was mobile tanks, basically.
So when Verhoeven, that is his name, when he transliterates it to the screen,
I mean, he doesn't know.
He's a fucking idiot.
He has no fucking clue about anything in relative warfare now, pretty much.
Yeah, but he doesn't know anything about the book either because he didn't read it.
So it's like, you know, he doesn't know what he's dealing with here.
So he didn't he didn't he didn't take into account the significance of the thing.
But yeah, so in the film, yes, correct.
But in the book, no.
So what would our conclusion be?
It was bad strategy, but we can see how you could rationally assume
that this would have been a working strategy.
I see why they thought this would work.
But it's technically speaking judging by the information they have.
I think it's entirely fine.
Strategically, you could certainly make an argument for it as well.
If you think your enemy are just dumb bugs acting on instinct,
then surely cutting off the head by taking the capital planet will be wise.
But you could also then make the argument that, of course,
they didn't have enough intelligence.
But hindsight is always 2020.
Yeah, you don't know what you don't know.
You got the terrain we see on Klandathu, Tango,
Urilla and Planet P, a very bad terrain for armored operations.
There's got to be some stretches of that.
Yeah, there's still they do.
They do have their support as well.
They do have their support.
There's one part where they bomb a bunch of fucking bugs.
And then the mobile entry come in afterwards,
after they've bombed this huge number of bugs.
And and one of my mods said, I guess he's just arrived.
He's like, are you missing the idea that it's like satire?
It's like, I'm sorry, dude.
But it's the the whole contention about Starship Troopers is that
did it manage to execute satire as effectively as a lot of people believe it did?
And the answer no.
This is this is the because Red Lion Media did a whole video
talking about how it definitively is that I would love to talk to him about it.
Oh, just just ask him a couple questions.
That's all.
Instead of I don't want to say anyone's like definitively wrong.
I'm just curious how they react to a bit of information.
I'm just like, how do you what do you think of this?
I don't know.
It's the argument about separating the the intent from the actual product.
I've had this annoyingly quite a lot frequently,
where people basically say like, oh, but the author meant this.
Yeah, but that's not what he's presented.
So that's what the author intended.
Yeah, I'm I'm not a mind reader.
I'm a movie watcher.
Exactly.
If he intended it, why isn't it in the movie?
And yeah, we brought up earlier.
But this this just you we know that this is a possibility.
We know that an author could say something is in the movie when we can categorically prove it is not.
So we know that this is a discussion.
It's not just end of story because he said it was like, no, it goes further than that.
And I think it's a really interesting conversation.
But I know it's not a popular conversation with a lot of people
because they're like, how could you possibly say that about Star Trek Troopers?
And it's like, how about we just have a chat?
We don't need to immediately jump to it's impossible.
It's like to engage in a war of attrition.
The poor planning resulted in hundreds of thousands of casualties among the mobile infantry,
including all my I don't think.
No, no, I think that's the exact opposite of trying to engage in a war of attrition.
Striking at their home planet with overwhelming military force.
It's not.
Hey, let's grind them down.
Sounds like that's great tactics to me.
Again, he he's conflating knowledge we gain by the end of the film for knowledge
we didn't have at the beginning of the film, because he's referring to when Karl says,
you know, this this is this is about the numbers and they have more.
They didn't know that when they were landing on Klandathu.
Yeah, putting 100,000 killed in one hour alone.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm proud that humanity stood together as one hashtag for Argentina.
But the answer to an attack on Earth is not to send half a million mobile infantry.
So the general, the general's in the war and they're like, well, we've just quite
been a series is gone.
Well, we should probably send half a million off on a suicide mission at least.
And I was like, well, I mean, yes.
And then we'll figure out what we're going to do.
Well, framing it as a suicide mission is that's that's the event of framing.
But there's soccer.
Go proper.
Yeah, if yeah, that is what you do, though, is if someone fucking attacks your planet,
you kill them.
Suicide missions for all.
Yeah, the implication like, oh, well, they they nuked millions of us from orbit.
Our response shouldn't be to attack back.
Why would we want to do that?
I fucking wonder.
Yeah, we have to Jeremy Corbyn.
Stood together as one hashtag for Argentina.
But the answer to an attack on Earth is not to send half a million mobile infantry on
a suicide mission.
Oh, it's easy to say after they'll die, didn't it?
I mean, this is kind of where I'm at.
If they had landed and they attacking the front, there was no artillery and that the
numbers were much thinner and they were a lot less coordinated and they just swiped
through the the troopers.
I wonder if people be saying like that was clear suicide mission.
Yeah, that was a terrible idea.
There's this overwhelming victory.
You bet your ass historians would have said that about the day because on paper D Day
looked like a fucking terrible idea.
But the Germans didn't have the fucking forces to defend the beaches.
And so the Americans landed against scattered resistance of under equipped demoralized
second line troops fighting Russian POWs, even a few Koreans.
Amazingly enough.
It was a bold military gamble.
This leads us into our next flaw.
Poor governmental structure.
Oh, really?
Oh, God.
Oh, boy.
Here we go.
Yeah, OK, let's hear about our ship.
Troopers is governed by a military elite following the collapse of 20th century
Western democracy.
The world is still rife with affluence as far as we can see.
Oh, the technological advancement has led to a higher quality of life.
However, while ordinary civilians are generally free, they don't enjoy the same rights or status
as military members.
Governmental leadership.
All right.
Should we take this in parts?
I suppose this is going and going.
All I'm saying is I endorse absolutely everything he's fucking said here.
Service guarantee, citizenship, universal suffrage is a mistake.
All right.
Hey, if you want me to expand, I can give high minds reasoning.
The whole point is based on something given has no value.
People didn't respect the power of the franchise because the franchise, what that is, is force.
You are exercising violence over the government.
You are making them do something.
And that comes with responsibility.
And the problem with universal suffrage in Heinlein's conception and in the Starship
Troopers universe was that people just voted themselves free stuff.
Bernie Sanders and Jeremy Corbyn won elections.
And that meant that led to a reduced moral integrity of the family.
So it led to a bunch of like hyper violent teenagers running around stabbing each other
in the streets and everyone's like Christ, we just want the madness over.
And therefore they had to put in a new system of democracy that meant you had to earn the
franchise rather than just be given it on a plate.
You still had constitutional rights.
But if you wanted to be involved in the political process, you had to earn it.
Because as he says at the beginning, something given has no value.
So they and remember, even there, you had Rico's parents were against him joining the military.
For them, it wasn't worth it.
All of the extra benefits and privileges.
It wasn't it wasn't worth it.
Just precisely take your man.
They were not badly off.
They were wealthy.
Yeah, he lived in a fucking mansion.
It looked like Beverly Hills.
They lived in a mansion and were planning a vacation to a fucking different planet.
Which sounds like a resort planet.
It's like, yeah, the Zegma Beach.
Well, that's the point because and in the book, it expands on this a bit as well.
Essentially, what this is is a libertarian paradise where the government has been shrunk
so significantly.
All it does is law enforcement and military and judiciary, obviously.
But the the scope of it has been dramatically shrunk.
So it's essentially most things are private and social,
which is why, you know, he's supposed to be a business.
Like, you know, his dad's like, oh, you're going to go to Harvard.
You're going to become businessmen and stuff like this.
Like, well, that's, you know, he'd rather get involved in doing his civic duty.
But where's the money in that?
Oh, no, father.
Don't send me to Harvard.
Don't make me a rich businessman.
That's terrible.
I want to exercise by this privilege.
So it's not like, yeah, so it's not like you have it.
The film never portrays like a two cast system in this world where even if you don't serve
in the military, you're destitute in the gutters and everyone fits at you or you're a certain
color or race or ethnicity or whatever.
That's never it's never shown here.
And the way I would understand, but that doesn't seem to be how it actually works
in execution and the stars of truth as well.
That's exactly right.
Right.
And V see, Jovan, if, he's trying to categorize fascism, don't make it look successful and
don't make it look like liberalism, you know, as in, like, like if you try to say,
look, this is an evil cash this world, what's going on.
Well, everyone's really well off and everything's voluntary and people get to choose the careers
they want to have and go on interstellar holidays.
And they have lots of friends, they have great education.
They're all really healthy and happy, even human integration facilities,
a human intercourse occasionally, even on the battlefield. So you know who fascism is.
This is not what fascism looks like. Like there's no atmosphere of fear in the institutions.
The only corruption we see is when Rico is trying to quit the military and they blow
Buenos Aires and he's like, Oh, can I say they tear up his resignation form? And it's
like, that's the only corruption we see in the entire film. Like that's no money changed
hands.
It's to further a principled position of one of the people in law.
Exactly. Exactly. It was, it was literally saying the law is not, morality is not set
by the rules. Morality, we try to bring out the rules. We try to bring in line with morality
because it was obviously to no one's benefit to kick him out of the army at that point.
And so it's like, okay, so you, yeah, a little bit of bending the rule because that's, it's,
it's a morally good thing. It's incredible how like he can, like if he wanted to portray
fascism, where is the oppression? Just show me the oppression. I want to see it. Well,
if they're going to bend the rules for that, then clearly that leads to them bending the
rules for human intercourse as well, which they actually did really did. Also, someone
made this meme for the stream. I think you'll like it. It's fantastic.
Sex is how the bugs win. And I guess cause you guys can't be forever. So I'll, I'll post
the other one from. Oh, the bugs are fucking us and therefore they win by sex. Oh my God.
If only we weren't commanded by incels, we got the incel wars have reserved for the veterans
and thus military minded people set the path of society. As we see in any society governed
by a military elite, Gentas never end well because they feel. Okay. That's, that's the
world of Starship troopers. No, that's the point though. Like they didn't overthrow democracy
is that society collapsed. Yes. It collapsed under the weight of the scientists. And then
again, they didn't remove democracy. They reformed it in a stable and stay and steady
form. Yeah. One of the really nifty things about democracy is that if you don't want
it, you can vote it out. And again, where do you think these veterans came from? Did
you, was there just a bunch of 80 year old people or shit? My, my Vietnam scars, raky.
No, they were the global war caused by the people who wanted to order society along the
lines of the scientists, which didn't work. Yeah. And, and Highline is for anyone who's
like curious about this. Highline is totally woke to the idea of the social sciences. They,
they are what he thinks will destroy humanity because effectively destroy civilization is
effectively we'll think we know more than we actually do and think we can just re-engineer
it all to be better. And we're currently living in that future right now. We're currently
giving puberty blockers to children because you know, there are no adverse consequences
and things like this. Someone in the discord asked, aren't the people with mental powers
impressed or looks down in this world? No, they're allowed to operate fully in the open
and even take up a very prestigious branches in the military. There are adverts on TV recruiting
to try and find them. And the Johnny Rico's little boyfriend dude has an entire psychic
lab in his fucking basement. Yeah. He is a psycho or whatever they call him. I didn't
rain fucks his pet Farrah to go and eat a larvae on his mother's leg and shit. Like he doesn't look
like, Oh my God, nobody needs to find out about this. Yeah. They can have a vision by a touch.
They can, they're able to mind control animals. But yeah, this seems like something like
initiative. It's called games and theory where they like, you know, they test the shit out,
try and figure out how it works. Well, you'd want to know who they are and not for not to like call
them or anything, but because they could be a huge and incredible help to a society. Like if
you have a, um, like if you, if you get past a, if you get past the idea of superstition that happens
in low magic universes, like the witcher and stuff like that, where, you know, they have a reason to
really be fearful of them, but you put that in the future where people are a bit more, I guess, more
morally and societally evolved than man, the more these things, like the better, like let's find them.
Okay. So, um, the, the reason that there's no oppression in Heinlein's universe, right? It
essentially comes from the, what, what is usually considered to be the highest moral value of the
enlightenment, the supreme moral principle. And that's the principle of like the, the freedom of
one's will, right? So you get to choose. That's the, that's the thing that I think it consent,
right? You get to choose what happens, you consent to what happens. And everything in Heinlein's
universe is structured around the principle of consent. That's why all the, all the difficulties
are actually not preventing you from doing something. It's actually trying to encourage
you to not do that thing. Like, uh, uh, like, you know, get out of the military because it's tough,
because we want the best. So you've got to commit to it and you've got some, you've got to really
consent to it and you've got to force yourself to be there despite it being a difficult thing to do
because you want standards, but nobody's being coerced into doing anything. And that goes for
everyone. Like the psych is what like, and the point of it is to say, well, what would you revolt
against? Cause at some point in the book, he says, there's never been a revolution. Why would there
be? What would you be trying to rev revolt against? You know, you get to decide your own life. And
that's honestly, I think it's the best idea we've had so far. So, uh, uh, glib is interested in, uh,
in talking about the, uh, the point of view you have. So would you be interested in hearing
someone who believes relatively opposite possibly about the film for a bit?
Yeah, of course.
Cool. He, uh, he was brought into, uh, debate YMS or Blade Runner once. It was interesting.
Right. Okay.
But, uh, yeah, I'm not entirely sure what, uh, what wants to be discussed, but he was interested. So
Gallib, are you there?
Hello. How do I sound?
Yeah, you sound right.
Excellent. Yeah. I was just wondering where the contention that the film is intended to be
presenting a fascistic society at like face value in the film. Um, if that was like a quote
that you heard from Berhoven or something, because I always felt like it was what he said.
What was the, because I'm looking for right now, it feels like it's a criticism.
Sorry, go on. Yeah.
Yeah. It's, it's in, it's in the director's commentary of it, um, which is instantly the
only bit that got copyright strikes on YouTube. The entire film I use like massive clips from
and YouTube didn't give a shit, but like one minute's worth of director's commentary. That was
it. You know, you don't get them to monetize that. Um, but he, yeah, he says that, you know,
this is going to be a pastiche or a satire of fascism, uh, in those words, and then he doesn't
actually show any fashion.
I'm pastiche in this because I remember reading something that he said that it was
about the American, uh, aspects that reflect their own fascism. So to me, the, uh,
imperialistic elements of the film are more, uh, in the, they come out more in the film than
the idea of the fascistic elements, because the society that's depicted is more like Plato's
Republic than it is a fascistic society. I can't, I can't find a, uh, a fascistic element in the
film other than the aesthetics. What, how are you relating it to Plato's Republic?
Uh, well, the idea that there are better types of citizens than others.
He actually counters that, um, in the book, uh, veterans are not smarter or better than anyone.
In fact, quite often, quite the opposite, but they are the ones who are civic minded
in the book though. And, and I think that we're supposed to separate the book from the movie,
whether we're defending it or not, because I have a distinct difference on how I look at
these movies, um, in the movie and the book, because the book is very straightforward and
serious and takes all of the philosophical implications seriously. And I think that's
what you're doing, Sargon. And I don't think that the movie takes any of the ideas seriously. Um,
and it is, it does. So some, yeah, it is sloppy and I agree with you that there is a lot from
the book that it's failed to properly render. But to be honest with you, for someone who was trying
to create a satire of fascism, Verhoeven just did a really poor job. Or maybe, you know,
the script writer was trying to sneak actually a bunch of really great ideas under the hood or
something. Cause he did manage to. Um, I, well, I agree with that. Yeah. The movie is a lot more
sloppy in the book. I completely agree. I just have to preface by saying I'm a, I'm a big fan
of yours. And, um, I actually agree on a lot of points that you, um, bring up in politics and in
media and all that kind of stuff. I don't think we disagree much here really doing
no, no, but I, I think that I've, I think that I really favor looking at the film through the,
the lens of Americanism more than fascism. And I think that the emphasis of fascism is a lot
because it's, it's 1999 when the movie comes out and then 9 11 happens, uh, a couple of years later.
And I think, I think you're completely right. It's definitely, uh, the, well, the whole,
the whole thing, I mean, Heinlein wasn't American, obviously. Um, and the whole thing is a
constitutional Republic. So yeah, it looks a lot like America. It's just with, with severe
restrictions on Gibbs, basically. Absolutely. I mean, and I think that that's, uh, like,
it's not really a disagreement, but I think that you're fighting valiantly for the book.
And a lot of people that are criticizing the movie on the other end that are like,
Oh, look at how this is a great criticism of fascism or doing a discredit. They're saying
that Heinlein was fascist. And then they're using the movie as a membrane to forward that argument.
Like, look at all of the stuff that Verhoeven put it in. And I think it does a disservice to both
because I think all of the elements that are satirical film elements in Starship troopers
are, uh, really well done. Like the idea that they're out there and they're seriously fighting
in these conditions, but they're doing it very sloppily and stupidly. And it's a dramatic
experience when somebody dies with all this blood and viscera, but the propaganda values
that have been instilled in them, keep them at this sort of Beverly Hills, 90210 shallowness.
They can't, there's not really a lot of depth in how the characters are actually
responding to the emotional conditions that they're going through. Um, and at the same
time, I feel like the, they're like Rico's willingness to follow the code and that he's
been grown up with, I think is part of his inability to figure out his own path and his
own destiny. And he eventually becomes, Oh, sorry if I'm popping, I'll fix that in a second.
He eventually just succumbs to the society and becomes a unit within it. He becomes the old guy.
Well, I think that's calling it, framing it as succumbing is already coloring it in a way that
is negative when he seems to be operating based off of a principle that he agrees with and can
justify. But it also makes it sound like you, he's, he's fallen down the path of least resistance.
And I don't agree. That's what I think that's the complete opposite of what Rico does. I think
he goes to the path of greatest resistance. And I think, uh, that's the, again, it comes,
it comes back to the kind of like enlightenment morality, where if you choose to do things
against inclination, then they can be considered truly moral. Now I'm not saying that's right or
wrong, but that's generally the assumption underlies statements like, you know, he, he
wanted to run away, but he stood in for anyway, you know, that makes it a truly heroic thing
because it was against his inclinations, against his interests. It was for duty, you know, for a
more abstract concept. And, and Rico does the same thing. It would have been much easier for him to
go to Harvard and become a wealthy businessman, right? But instead he chooses to join the mobile
infantry and get a shit kicked out of him for however many years and lose all these friends.
Uh, I would say that that's true to a certain extent, but I don't see what other options he
thinks are available to him. I mean, his parents like literally want to set him up at Harvard to
be a successful, wealthy elite of the society with all the money and education that money could
possibly provide. Um, like this is really very clearly established what they want for him. And
it would be much easier to go through with that. But do we see a reason why he believes in what he
believes in or is he just following Carmen? Uh, well, it seems to be, well, that's, that's, that's
the question behind it all actually is, you know, are women the real problem? Yeah. No, no, but yes,
it is there a, is there a commitment to the conviction? And this is what Brad check asked
me, you know, he repeats the text, you know, a citizen defends the, the body politic with his
life, but do you believe it? And that's the point it's, it's about the, the necessity, the necessary
position of duty in the life of the people who are enjoying the society that is produced by the
self-sacrifice of others, the duty of others. Like, you know, at some point someone has to fulfill
that duty and it is something honorable to do so. It's something that makes you a better human
being than you were before to do that thing. It's genuine self-sacrifice for others. Nothing
coerced, nothing that's forced upon you. It's something you've cut a decision, you come to
yourself. And that's the, that's the purpose behind Johnny Rico's character is that he did
come to this and he did follow through and it was rough, you know. And after his parents died,
that does seem to have really strengthened his resolve. I'm going to fix my microphone for a
second. I just want to leave off by saying, I think that another good part that you could
argue on your side is that the greatest influence and father figure in his life
was the leader of the Roughnecks. So that's his biggest influence. He, he's his teacher
and his guide through the war. So I agree that it could be that in the school as well. He says,
you know, he doesn't even encourage him to do it. And like you were saying, you know,
like the freedom to make your own decisions is the only freedom anyone really has. Figure things
out yourself is the only freedom anyone really has. And that's a really profound line in my
opinion. You know, it's an interesting way of saying, I'm not going to answer this question for
you. It's very tactful. Yeah, it's, it's a, he just gives a very good speech about justifying
why society is the way that it is. And something that I think would be very interesting is to
interview, sorry about that, to interview the writer and see if he had differing ideas from
the director, because maybe like you said, he did slip in some references that would be in support.
Totally, totally. I'd love to do that. Because it's interesting to me. And
the reason why I feel like I have my perspective is because when you look at the other Verhoeven
movies that I think are successful, like Robocop, there's a level of, I don't know what to tongue in
cheek to it, to everything like you can't fully take the content totally seriously. Like you get
blustering horns and brass and loud music every time Robocop shows up, and he's like a cowboy
from the West. And he deals with all the bad guys. But he's also in a horrible situation,
if you think about it on a deeper level. Yeah, it's certainly very critical of the idea of
corporatism and a lack of regulation within these massive companies, and they're the control that
they can exude over a society and how what happens if we have to turn to them to solve issues instead
of, you know, more governmental bodies that are more accountable. And the guy who's against
fascism is like, Hey, should we get the government to do everything? And something that I'm also
curious about was because you were you guys were talking about the strategy of how they landed. And
I was just thinking about how similar it is to like Soviet style tactics. So I feel like that
decision on the filmmaking side would be, you know, look at how bad the situation is. We're
just throwing all these guys out there, even though we've been giving them propaganda that
we know exactly what we're dealing with. And well, we have all the tools for a reason like when the
Soviets probably don't do it for the same reason that the mobile infantry does it here. It's because
the mobile infantry in the movie thinks that this is the best way to combat a foe that they think
is going to get taken out by these tactics. I don't think it's necessarily because they
were poorly equipped, or they were just bodies to be thrown at the enemy.
I mean, in the film, it's not like it's completely nonsensical. And they thought that it would
actually really win it for them. I'm willing to agree that in the concoction of the plan,
maybe there was someone on the board of directors of strategy or something that said a lot of people
could die if we do it like this, when we could do it in a longer, more methodical way. And then they
were like, we'll take the losses. Like, I want to defend Soviet tactics here for a second,
because it's it's not just throwing people. There was an entire doctrine of deep operations.
And it was come up with a guy, I can't remember his name, he was known as the Napoleon is the
Russian Napoleon, brilliant strategist who got on the backside of Stalin, so got tortured to death,
because Mars what happens. But the entire idea is to utilize the strength of the Soviet Union's
manpower. It is continuous attacks across a large frontage to figure out where the enemy is
strongest, and then avoid those areas smashing through the weak point with large reserves of
armed forces delving deep behind their lines in a blitzkrieg style attack to cut off their
reinforcements. It's actually a really effective and competent strategic and tactical doctrine.
But the thing is, they were up against the absolute worst enemy, because the Germans have
the perfect counter to that, which was the strategy of mobile defense, where each of
all of these broke the breakthroughs were counted by Panzer formations, while the front lines were
just weakly mad. But the Soviet cell taxes were not that bad, just a bad enemy. Well,
if they were truly bad, they would have lost, but they didn't. Is that how it works? I think
that is more to do with the manpower and the material. The another thing that the people
don't give us enough credit for is that their artillery doctrine was genuinely quite brilliant.
Their idea of massed batteries was just as innovative for artillery warfare as the idea
of blitzkrieg was for panzer warfare. They had unfathomable quantities of heavy guns.
I mean, the Spartans weren't bad because they they weren't bad because they lost it,
they're mobilized. Well, it is. I mean, if you if you are a cynic, then obviously whatever works
is the best strategy, whatever wins the day. But that seems to be the context. Well, there's
things like Pyrrhic victories and there's the Confederate States and the United States Civil
War that just winning a battle isn't just because you win a battle doesn't mean you're closer to
winning the war necessarily. Oh, yeah, of course. I mean, there's so many layers to this kind of
thing. I'm studying Soviet and not Soviet Chinese soft power right now. So there's all sorts of ways
to win. Yeah, right. There's all sorts of ways to win a conflict. I mean, everybody's played
civilization. But as for the Starship Troopers thing, I find it really hard to argue that they
were using, like, very realistic military tactics, I get into the same conversation about Star Wars
and how there's like, tanks and all sorts of all sorts of artillery pieces that should be on the
field, given the kind of weaponry that we have, but they don't exist. And obviously, I think that
has to do with production. I mean, there's there's either a uniformity that has to do with the props
and being able to produce a lot of them based on one pattern, or it's to be an aesthetic point that
there's just so many people that are all supposed to be like wielding the same thing.
There's a uniformity to them. I can't decide which one it could be both.
Could be both. But I agree with you. I think it's down to the production rather than
the the original writing. Yeah, and I think that's why in more modern iterations, like
Traders of Mars and stuff like that, we certainly see a shift.
Absolutely, absolutely. And I hope that we get more movies that actually think about this kind
of stuff because YouTubers are ready to talk about it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And without shouting
at each other, that's the best way to do it. Yeah, I thought it was really interesting.
Um, suppose we can keep out this section, he's probably gonna bring up some more stuff.
Glib, do you want to hang out for a bit? Yeah, I enjoy all of you guys very much to watch all
your videos. So if you want me to hang out, you guys just let me know when you're bored.
I accidentally just showed the fucking thing on screen. The the invite to the room. So it's
gonna get unfortunately, join with I'm gonna have to reset it. Oh, my God, it's okay. Oh, we'll
survive. I hate it when I do that. Get the copy of that. Roll it over there. Doo doo doo prepare
to join a new room. Okay. All those smart people in chat who are like, Muahaha, I'm gonna join.
Nobody will be able to watch the video together on your own independent of us. That is true.
Alright, that's a new link. By the way, sorry, I'm happy Brexit day. Oh, thank you very much.
How was that today? It's every day now. Oh, yeah, all day every day. No, no, it's,
we've been out of the European Union for nearly two weeks now. Oh, boy. So, so you're not just like
one massive escape from LA style criminal hive island of I mean, give it a few more days.
Basically, yeah, build a wall around London. Yeah.
It's like build a wall around London, detach it from Britain and say it off into the North Atlantic.
All right. Here's the video working for everyone.
Don't enjoy the same rights or status as military members. Governmental leadership positions are
reserved for the veterans and thus military minded people set the path of society. As we see in any
society because you didn't have to join, you didn't have to join the military to become a
citizen. It was just one option and that happened. This happens to be a war story. So that's the one
we follow. What are the other options? They they don't give you a comprehensive list in the book,
but essentially, basically, they think up, you know, horrible DTC to do. It's just stuff that
sucks. Yeah. If you suffer like if you're handicapped, they'll give you something that
would be like, they're not going to ask something that's impossible of you. Yeah.
But it will be one of those aspects of I served in the way that I could. I gave in the way that I
could make a video defending the lost Jedi, that sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
But the purpose is that essentially you have to kind of suffer through whatever it is. It's just
it's just a trial. That's what you say. No, no, it's like a genuine physical emotional trial,
because at the end of it, you know, you'll remember why you have your citizenship. You know,
you'll take you'll take it seriously. You'll you'll treat it like it's something valuable.
Yeah. Which is incidentally the opposite of the way our governments act now,
as if our citizenship is worth nothing. There's a civil version of the military
option, I believe, in this world. If citizenship is not a path. I mean,
if military service is not a path to citizenship, why do we do that with foreigners?
Precisely. That's a really great point.
And I like that there's an inherent notion that there's a it's bad for veterans or something to
have heightened or status that's reserved to them or reserved for them. I don't get it.
And you can tell this because he treats the soldiers as if they're psychopaths.
So we're trying to turn these into killing psychopaths. That's not what the soldier is.
And like the soldiers are not separate from the civilization that creates them like they're part
of it. It's not, you know, he's trying to separate the two things as if they shouldn't meet.
Well, and it's always funny because if you look at the structure of America specifically,
it's supposed to be 18 to 45, I believe, is the militia that can always be called into that's
like a I'm not sure if it's codified into law that you have to do that. But in a time of war,
I'm pretty sure that's one of the things you're supposed to do.
Well, you've got the right to. Yeah, exactly. And yeah, it's actually more
arguable that the militia is more constitutionally oriented than a standing army. But didn't your
founders warn explicitly against standing armies? Absolutely. Absolutely. And if you go to any of the
tourist destinations that are like military monuments to the revolution, usually the tour
guide is ex-military and is there because he admires the previous generations that served
for them. And if you get into the meat and potatoes of it, you find out that most of the
situations were enhanced and possibly won like the Battle Bunker Hill was won by a private
artillery that was owned by like only a few rich people in the in the town. And they actually used
the cannons to dig out the parapets and the walls that they built up. And that just doesn't
aside, because I know Arch Warren and you guys like this kind of stuff. Yeah, no, I'm interested.
There was a super high kill rate for British officers, because there were Scots that were
being fielded and their lobster coats were were worn down. So you could spot who was an officer
and who wasn't by how shiny their uniform was. Plus, the Americans were cowardly little constant
aimed for the officers on purpose. Hey, we had to build a country and shit to do.
I just realized the streets were going for two and a half hours. Sargon didn't destroy it. I'm
confused. Oh my God. How is it still up? It's your fault. Well, I guess the weather wasn't that bad
after all. I'm disappointed God, you not doing your part. Waller expresses disappointment in God.
He sends a typhoon to Britain that he's like, I'm doing my part. My house is still here,
you pussy. Be governed by a military elite. Gentas never end well, because they fail to
understand the need for restraint on militaristic behavior, or a balance of ideas and governance.
The fucking music, dude. You remember when the mobile infantry decided to butcher,
you know, half a continent? No, they killed loads of child bugs. Didn't you see that bit?
No. Yeah. You're an adult bug of tomorrow. Yeah. But can you really justify killing a face hugger
rags? Um, you know, I just can't, I can't, especially because I'm vegan. Yeah.
Isn't it a gun like Tehran?
This manifests in a United citizen Federation with a mobile infantry run amok with
what? Run amok. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. What the fuck is he
talking about? I'd love to know the references he has for that. Yeah. Lieutenant don't hesitate
to commit violence against infantry and training. Oh, you were just complaining about like,
teach their fucking students. Oh, the horror. So as you did highlight, uh, I guess violence
would be relative to their current medical standards. And isn't, uh, isn't Rico put into
some kind of weird Star Wars like tank at one point and yeah, yeah, that's after a bug, uh,
stabs through his leg. Yeah. He gets fucked up, but he's okay. Uh, yeah. Yeah. And you'd think,
cause that, what do you get stabbed? That looks like it would have gone through the bone for sure.
Right? Like you get, you get booped. But yeah, this, uh, remind me, why does the attacker,
she says she gets a transfer, right? And, uh, she says, she wants to prove that she's the
toughest bitch of the bunch. And so should like, fight me. And he's, uh, yeah. And she does, uh,
she does assault him. All right. He, she could have volunteered. What I'm suggesting is that,
it's not like he does this with no cause. He doesn't just break her down and that's what I
mean. Like it's not like he's looking at the ball and goes, right. Grabbing you going to beat the
shit out of you. Hey guys, make sure you don't annoy me with your looks value on the lives of
their soldiers. Hardening soldiers for war is one thing. Throwing a knife through a recruit's hand
and disabling him. He's expressly fighting though. He spent the rest of the movie being
an efficient fighter. So obviously this did not actually disable him. I mean, in this very moment,
it disables him, but that's, you know, they're not free. That's like saying training hard makes you
tired, which disables you, which doesn't make it very good training. So I'm tired. I'm tired. I've
been disabled by my own men. Like, uh, well, what is his position? Cause he does pretty well,
right? That guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like corporate level value on the lives of their
soldiers. Also just got to remind everybody that rat checks character has a robot arm.
So yeah, I think that he thinks the knife in the hand, I think it's going to be okay.
I think he's going to be all right. I think I'll make it. I want a robot arm. People could go into
battle. The prosthetics are so good in this future that, Oh, you don't have an arm. We'll give you a
robot one. You'll be right in the front in no time. Like damn recruits hand and disabling him
is moronic. The mobile infantry badly needs the, did you just describe it as moronic?
Yeah. Value on the lives of their soldiers. Hardening soldiers for war is one thing.
Throwing a knife through a recruits hand and disabling him is moronic.
The mobile infantry badly needs the oversight of more politically inclined individuals.
Like she collapsed the world in the fucking first place. Wait,
was he suggesting chief Palpatine? I don't know, man. I don't, I don't think we can trust his
tactician. Oh, fucking really? What if he's like, okay, everyone, we're going to make a clone army.
This is a statement that doesn't make any sense either, because he's calling it a military junta.
So that means that every soldier is a political agent because they're all ruling the state. And
it's that, I mean, it is correct that all of us vote. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. It is correct
that all of these are, they are all politically minded because they're trying to earn their
citizenship so they can vote. You know, it's like every soldier is essentially a politician
in the same way that, you know, everyone who votes is involved in politics is like, they are that thing.
The next flaw is that the mobile infantry is a volunteer force. Now this is both a weakness and
a strength. They should be using slaves. Well, let's, let's see. I'm curious where he's going to,
I'm curious where he's going to take this. For today's video, we will consider the aspects that
make it a flaw in the Federation. The lack of compulsion means that I got a skip on the video.
Yeah, well, I'll drag it back. We need to make sure we hear him aspects that make it a flaw in
the Federation. One chooses to join the military, but doing so is the only way to become a citizen.
So there are incentives to do so. That's not true, though. There are civil options.
Is it in, is it the only way to become a citizen in the movie?
Is that true? I don't remember. It probably is true in the movie.
But let's say that it is in the movie. Sorry, it's not. It's not forced. Why is it playing on
mine? If I pause the inscription at the same time, it's also not just a voluntary force and
gives you a bonus that gives you extra voting rights and stuff and involvement in government.
What exactly is the argument against why any of this is a
flaw? I'm assuming like the first thought I had was that he's going to try and argue that it will
give you less numbers overall compared to how many you could have if you forced them. But
this is the thing. It seems like, I don't know, like say I'm trying to kill a criminal and he's
in a room with 10 babies and I flamethrower the whole thing. And I'm like, victory. I killed the
criminal. And it's like, you need to consider what else you just did. Like the other things that
happen as a result of that. Like it feels weird to isolate these, quote unquote, flaws at all.
It is just the standard rule of warfare. Conscriptor armies fucking suck.
I'm the Soviet Union. I would like to disagree with this notion.
Are you kidding me? The kill death ratio. No. Conscriptor armies are just chamoishets.
I love it. It's pretty bad. Yeah. It's fucking awful. Right. Conscriptor army. Yeah. But even then
they, they would have done better had they had a smaller and more disciplined and volunteer
professional force, but they didn't have that. They, they did have that. That was all stationed
on the frontline to Germany during Operation Barbarossa. Oh, and did it do well? No, it didn't
fucking terribly. Just, uh, I'm not, I'm not going to advocate for Russian style warfare at all.
This is from chat. No, but that is, that is a general maxim. I think you can stand by.
Just clarification from chat. Uh, it's not about, it's about, uh, the right to vote,
to become a full citizen. And yes, you do have to do service, but not necessarily combat or not
necessary combat. Um, wow. Apparently, apparently that's in the film, but I really can't remember
civil. I can't remember. Um, the country that's on legs talked about it, I think,
because he's the one who handed out the applications and they were talking about,
uh, you know, what kind of service they were going for Navy, military or civil, et cetera.
I think. All right. It's funny. He even says it's the best decision I ever made.
Well, see, that's made me the man I am today. So this is the super interesting thing about
that scene, right? So from the director's point of view, I think he's trying to say,
look at this guy and he's been brainwashed into thinking that was good. And then you see it from
the perspective of, uh, let's just take a random audience member called Bob. And Bob is like, I
really liked that that guy, despite having faced such adversity is proud of his work,
is proud of the contribution he made to his society. And this is what I mean.
Sacrifice practically all his limbs and he's still full of praise for the system.
And that's the thing that the, the POV is really interesting that someone might be like,
obviously a brainwashed idiot that's consumed by his well, fascist slash military imperialism
nonsense. And so else it's like, well, he's just a veteran who's proud of defending his people.
Are you like, um, to be definitive on it is pretty tough. You know, uh,
well, you'd think that if, if, if he really was against it, then he wouldn't be out there
as a recruiter convincing people to do it. He would be disillusioned and upset.
Well, the point is he's brainwashed. The point is that he thinks that what has happened is a good.
Well, it's not. Can you, can you name the, uh, I'm sure he doesn't think his own limbs being
blown off is good, but like having done his duty, it's good. It's, it's a, despite this,
it's still, you know, I'm still glad that I did it, even though this happened to me.
But you got to admit that all of the veterans that are in the movie have at least one limb
taken away usually, except for the instructors. But again, I love the fact it does. I was going
to say, depending on POV, cause I'm pretty sure this is RLM's perspective. They're like, see,
it's the film trying to say like all of these teachers are all people who are victims of this
war. They're brainwashed into thinking is a, is an overall good. And I'm paraphrasing. That might
not be the position, but I'm just saying that there's a potential position. While the alternative
is that all of these experienced members of this system are explaining and not only explaining,
they're, they're happy to debate it as well, which is quite interesting. Um, yeah, they have,
they have a justification for everything that they've lost. They've gained something in their
minds for it. So that, that is the admirable way of looking at it. And then the negative way is
looking at saying they lost as individuals. Drew, God said ball is misreading the scene.
I didn't even read it. I gave you two readings of the scene. Like what I read is okay.
I wanted to make a point about the, uh, conscription thing, because I think it's funny how
you can have conscription in a military service, whatever you, that brings in all the people into
your unit. But if you look at the way that the, um, like special forces or the higher tier,
higher geared and higher trained forces choose their people, it gets harder and harder and it
takes more and more individual effort to join those units, the further elite that you go.
And I don't think that there's a special forces conscription unit anywhere in the world.
So you need to offer the reward. And that's the essence of the, the military
structure in Starship Troopers, effectively the entire military special forces or supposed to be.
I think you'd be hard pressed to find somebody that was a veteran that thought that this movie
had the politics completely off base the way that it's presented structurally in the society.
Oh my God. Some of these, some of the memes that they've been making are insane.
I just posted one there.
Wait, is this a meme? Yeah. I thought for a second, it was gonna be like a real
Juan Rico, pretty much does whatever he wants to feel. He doesn't act like a leader committed.
When does he turn cash some gauge?
What possessed you to call it a human?
It's so, cause we have this whole meme before about whether or not you're an
alien in this game can be found out through hacking. And it's so applicable to this.
It's like, I've been hacked. I'm not an alien. I just think it looks like human intercourse.
What? Isn't that what you call it, fellow humans? Is that not what we also call this?
Like, tell me the lie.
All right.
Way to become a citizen. So there are incentives to do so. Still, the lack of compulsion means that
the mobile infantry cannot force the most talented humans among the populace to fight for them.
It sounds like a bug. It's like, but we need to get the warrior bugs to fight them because
the cockroach bugs are bad at it. You know, we need, we can't have volunteerism.
This guy is, he's applying some real logic to this. Okay.
I wonder how it's determined.
Yeah. If they're wearing glasses, kill it. Wait, what?
We need to, we need to redistribute the intelligence and capability of the human population.
It's only fair. This is so great. I love this video.
Flip side. This means that the mobile infantry is going to have to settle for the best soldiers
they can get. Like Juan Rico, a complete. Yeah, that idiot who doesn't do anything.
That moron. Yeah. Okay.
I thought he was really good. I thought that was kind of the point is that he
gets promoted a bunch and he does stuff and he kills bugs and he's a war hero.
Absolutely. A hundred percent loser.
He's, he wants to go after the cheerleader or whatever. He's a football star.
He's excels in training. He's exactly who you think he has human intercourse.
Yeah. Um, I think it's interesting to think as well, right? So you have like a selection
of people. It's not where I was going to go with this. This is not just about the physical traits
of the body for whether or not they'll be good in combat. Like it's clearly, if they're volunteering,
then they're clearly on board. They have an interest. They have a stake personally in
operating. Either they want to do it or they want the rewards of doing it.
If you force a bunch of people whether or not they're big and strong or whatever
sort of attribute you're running with. Um, I have a feeling you might end up with the problem you
were mentioning earlier where he was like, Oh, weak-minded people who can't handle any of this.
Like if you can script any at all that you think are the best, who knows what you might end up with.
There are, you know, there are drawbacks to each of these plans.
Fellow soldier killed by taking off his helmet during a live fire simulation.
Wait, sorry. What was he saying this as? Like an example of how he's incompetent.
And he made a mistake. Therefore he's not good.
Yeah. This was, you do get how unlikely this was. She got shot at the same time as he was
checking the helmet for somebody and she shot in the direction of the guy without the helmet.
It's very unlikely. Unfortunate. Still his responsibility though, because he was leading
the group. And yeah, this is the, this is the whole thing about Tywin we got earlier. It's like,
well, he got out Fox that one time. So he's an idiot. Yeah. I'm just going to throw back.
Is that actually his point?
Flip side. This means that the mobile infantry is going to have to settle for the best soldiers
they can get. Like Juan Rico, a complete box. I mean, he gets a fellow soldier killed.
Gets a fellow soldier killed. It's just so unfair as a representation of what happens in this scene.
Taking off his helmet during a live fire simulation.
Yes. Captain dip. Just called for a medic. Despite the fact that the soldier doesn't have
the motherfucker is in shock. Yeah. That's what you always do.
I mean, Jesus Christ, like you, you understand what he accomplishes in this film. You watch
the movie, right? Like you, you sat down and you watched the film from beginning to end.
Idiot. All the things he accomplishes.
Is he gonna, yeah. It's like, does one mistake negate everything good that you do?
But you, you might flip onto the back of a giant rampaging bug, shoot a hole in its carapace,
and then dunk a grenade in there, leap off to safety as the thing explodes, saving all of your,
your, your fellow comrades. But that doesn't mean that you're good at anything. Okay.
But you, you made a mistake one time. You're a fucking idiot. And you always will be.
This is why this is, this is what annoys me about people who talk about Hitler. I mean, yeah, sure.
Holocaust world war, but, but, but hear me out. Hear me out. Autobahn veganism.
You haven't seen his eye clearly.
Faction. Yeah.
Some people are saying, by the way, that, um, the clarification about the scene, I don't,
they don't know if the helmet would even have saved him. Um, because if you look at, especially
on this screenshot, he was shot in like just above the eye from a downward position. There's a good
chance the Breckenridge, I think is his name. He would have died anyway. Maybe, maybe not,
but that doesn't, I would, I would clarify myself. I'd be like, but the point is to not fucking
remove the helmet during a live fire course, even if it's screwing up or whatever, you need to take
him out of the area. If you're going to be careful. I will grant you this having a live fire course
where getting hit by the simulated lasers will cause the person with a fully automatic assault
rifle to spasm uncontrollably is probably a recipe for disaster. Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah,
because maybe, yeah, maybe we should just talk about how dumb that is in general because they're
being shot at by, um, laser sort of stand in enemies, right? They're just like little things
that shoot lasers. Yeah. Those lasers make them pull their triggers once they're shot with it and
it makes it just fire wildly. It's like, this doesn't seem like a good plan guys. Like, I don't
know if I don't know what the benefit outweighs the negatives are of that is training course.
I mean, I guess I get the point. It's to get them accustomed to recoil and the sound of gunfire and
bullets and stuff. I get it, but there are probably better ways to do this. In fact,
there are, we do them, but I get it. Oh, also, I forgot Hitler. He killed Hitler. So yeah,
there you go. What a hero man. A man's hero. Yes. Captain dip just called for a medic
despite the fact that the soldier doesn't have a head. I love the idea, by the way,
that you like come home to your, I don't know, a parent. That's like the head is exploded because
they fucking like some horrible accident took place and you like immediately called night. I
died. It's like, they're already dead. Yeah, we're not. Chill out. Yeah. And also tell me how you
would react if this situation occurred to you right in front of your face.
I always got the impression that he knew full well that guy was dead. Like he's just
shouting for many. Yeah. Cause he's just, it's just done. You see a soldier get hit. Your first
instinct is to call for a medic. Like it's, it's almost like you don't even think about it.
Boom. Soldier was hit. You call for a medic. I mean, he wasn't the fucking, he wasn't helmet
repair tech. You know, he's not a fucking doctor, is he? So you called for a medic,
but this guy's actually not dead. Did you not look like, come on, learn your lesson.
Also, by the way, nothing is lost by calling the medic over. No, it's a waste of the medics time.
Right. They're playing solitaire on his phone. He's like, James ball said, Oh, and the chick
who killed the dude, she ends up leaving the military too. It's like, yeah, cause she's weak
minded. If she wasn't weak, she would have stayed. Yeah. I mean, that must be a, a heavy sort of
thing to know that you got your fault done, but man, that's, that's got a way on you.
She was sociopathic. She'd have been like, Oh, well, it's his own fault for letting him give
us a helmet. You know, it's that's war. People get shot in training.
It could happen. It could happen. That would have ended so much better. Just called for a medic
despite the fact. Also, let's be clear. You just showed a man's head being graphically blown
apart, but you censor the word dipshit. Little odd, but all right. We get that in YouTube videos
all the time. It's hilarious. Yeah. We got that with, um, that one Joker video we watched where
the guy censored like the spoiler. Don't spoil it. Don't spoil it. Cause it's not the one soldier
doesn't, uh, one of the cinema people ones, we're going to be covering them and oh my God, you're
right. Oh my God. Something funny happens and I don't want to spoil it for the chat when they
finally get to see so much material. Um, but yes, it is. And the funny thing I guess about it is that
it might be a reasonable thing to do because a lot of people theorize that YouTube's like scrub
your, uh, your videos for swear words, maybe not for graphic violence. You'd think they'd have some
bot for that though. Yeah. It's still just, it's weird that you would have to do that. That's the
thing. It's weird that you could show something so graphically violent, but then they can't handle
the dipshit word. Also, uh, someone brought up the, um, the starter trooper universe has pretty
insane medical tech. The things that can mentor astonishing. It isn't out of the blue that Rico
calls for a medic. Yeah. It's not beyond the realms of possibility. Probably. Yeah. It is possible to
survive getting shot in the head. Maybe not how much better, but how much better would the scene
be if he didn't yell for medic and we just slowly pan or like, yeah, we went out or, you know what
I mean? And the whole point of that is for him to second guess his leadership capabilities and bust
him back down to private. No, it's stupid. He shows it does show that he is trained to a degree.
He has concern. He is operating. He hasn't fully lost his faculty. He's not a psychopath. This
guy's a soldier. Yeah. He doesn't like smile and go. Yes. Captain dipshit just called for a medic
despite the fact that the soldier doesn't have a head. This highlights maybe the most major flaw
of the mobile infantry. Who is that? That's it. Just that they had through volunteering. They end
up with shitty soldiers. That was his point. Well, if anything, this is more of a criticism
of a live fire training course than it is volunteers. I don't see how you can't just
make the argument in reverse. Like if you don't have volunteers, you end up with people who are
totally unprepared and the shit at warfare or some shit like that. They're not there for good
reasons or they they're not cut out for it or they don't want to be there or they're looking for the
first excuse they can to get out or to engineer an escape or to go AWOL. Also,
sorry, I was just gonna say, doesn't this also happen in regular exercises where you're trying
to go prone and they shoot a machine gun over your head and some people got up because they
like panic and they get their head shot off. People die in training. Yeah, it doesn't. Yeah.
So I don't I don't think I think that it's just that putting it on hand is a way of measuring.
There is an element of potential danger that comes along with getting trained for even more
dangerous. Yeah, you're becoming a soldier. You have to be prepared. It's main hero is inept.
He has no specialty. No. Really? Captain. Wow. He's really good in the film. You highlighted
like one era when he was learning how to be a soldier. This is really weird. Like
going strictly from the first film, right? Because I don't know if he's just an idiot
in the other films, but he gets promoted a lot. He's very decisive. He's accurate. He's a team
building like supportive person. Like I don't see. Yeah, I don't. I don't. What is your references?
Give me, give me something. He single-handedly kills a giant monster bug. Well, obviously he
can have human intercourse and only 10 minutes. I wonder if he's going to bring it up, bring up
human intercourse as a floor. Do it. Yeah, but he's not a, he's, he doesn't have psychic ability.
So he's not cool. That's true. Human intercourse to be a top coin on this video.
Elite skills. And isn't that intelligent? Whereas many elite soldier forces are defined by a heroic
okay. He's not comparing him to master chief. That seems unfair. He's a master chief. That is
really unfair. He was engineered basically as a kid to be a super soldier. Like this is that's,
these are two completely different high schooler who volunteered for the military against fucking
master chief. Like I don't see how this is. If you're, if you're saying compared to an
hyper intelligent person, he's not very intelligent. It's like, Oh, that's a real shock. Well, I mean,
one of the, one of the things about Rico's character is he's not a genius, you know,
he's, he's not some guy who scores, you know, A's on every course and everything like that.
And that's okay. It dovetails into what Arch was bringing up with Highline's point of the,
the citizens are not more intelligent than the, than the regular person. They, they are the
regular person. He's not a Mary Sue. Yeah, but he, but he's not, he's not meant to be something
superior to the average person. It's showing that, look, the average person can do this because when
the scientists, the hyper intelligent people get, you know, all funny ideas into the head,
they tend to actually end up killing millions of people and it all goes horribly wrong. I mean,
that's the, the whole point of socialism is it's scientific and it scientifically killed a hundred
million people in the 20th century, you know? So it's like, I don't know, it's being super smart
does not mean that you get everything right. So, um, someone in chat arch, this might trigger you.
He said master chief is a 40 case space space, uh, space Marine with better armor and less bulk.
Oof. Oof. Oh boy. Master chief would be broken into half by a fucking neophyte.
Don't know about the better armor part. Certainly. That's, uh,
armor and fear. You can, because remember, you can get punched twice and die.
Aren't space Marines bigger than John just without armor, a huge human,
they'd be on average, roughly standing shoulders and head above them.
The only thing master chief has is that, uh, the recharge shield or whatever.
Yeah. He's the, the armor helps, but he's got the recharge shield and the,
obviously the training that goes along with it, but like 40 K is, it's just,
I wonder how it stands up to a fully automatic grenade launcher.
Let's be real. Master chief couldn't even beat doom guy. So come on guys.
There's a reason these things exist in different universes.
Yes. I like how just out of the loop. I have a black.
You got to get nothing about master chief.
Master chief didn't even have human intercourse.
He didn't.
Neither do space Marines. That's why they're superior, but they're not even humans.
So it's okay. Oh, so they have alien intercourse.
That's, that's her borderline heresy of wide variety of alien species.
And yeah, a lot of people have been continuing the point about the medic and in chat,
I saw the conversation going, not only do you have ambulances on hand,
apparently with live fire courses, but medics will be going to bodies whether or not they're
confirmed dead in the moment. And that, uh, on the, on the 0.00001% chance,
the person who's been shot in the head is alive. You would call a medic
for the sake of it.
He's like, Hmm, my friend just got his head blasted off. I could be alive.
I'll just continue the exercise. Let me check his pulse. Let's see if we have
any responding eyes. I'll bother a medic later.
I don't like that. Do that. He calls for the medic and then this guy is in that
live fire course with Rico. Like idiot, he's dead.
I'm just like, thanks bro.
This is an intensely weak minded person who will go on to become a general such as reflective
of a very flawed professional. We are shown that he is very good. He's chosen because he's very
good at his job. That's like the whole point. I like how he's got no references outside of
that one in training. Like, come on, dude. Can we find like a picture of the dude talking
about this? And we'll see if we can find intensively weak minded person.
He doesn't make very many mistakes after this guy is like, Johnny Rico is an imbecile.
The guy, the guy calls him a dipshit when he's the same person describes the sex as human.
I mean, at least Johnny Rico can wash his clothes before he makes a YouTube video.
Oh shit. And he can have a human intercourse. Do we know if this guy has had human intercourse
or is even capable? He seems like he's uh, he fraternizes with a lot of bugs.
Are we sure he's not a bug? I bet he's a bug sympathizer.
The mobile infantry is stuck with Johnny. It's that time of the month, Rico. He almost quenched
the mobile infantry, a force he only joined because of a girl due to the helmet incident.
What? That's more than enough reasons. So for one, he doesn't, but two,
it's not unreasonable. You got one of your teammates and friends killed.
Of course you're going to be doubting yourself at that point.
He's not a sociopath. Well, that was a flaw, right?
Who wouldn't join the mobile infantry after they got nuked, right?
Makes sense to me. I just want to say, it's got fucked. Well, but he's highlighting it as
your friends and family have all been wiped out. Why wouldn't you fight the bugs?
This is an intensely weak minded person who will go on to become a general
such as reflective of a very flawed professional ladder.
That's a, you did such a bad job of like giving any credence to that argument.
I don't know. He got someone shot moving on. You're like, okay.
Next, we have the mobile infantry transport vehicles. In the film Starship Troopers,
the main vehicle used for space travel by the UCF is the Corvette transport. The Corvettes were
often used to deploy dropships, which carried mobile infantry platoons. The Corvettes are fast,
but along with the dropships, they transport seem to have weak defenses and lack much in the way of
offensive combat capabilities. Hold on. That is a plasma ball. A couple of kilometers. I was going
to say, I didn't know that they had how powerful the fences you were expecting.
Yeah. I don't know if they're designed to withstand this kind of, uh, this kind of
like it like we've been struck by a small sun. Don't worry. We've been armored for that.
Yeah. We have an advanced society. We'll be fine.
It's funny for me to watch him complain about the ship stuff because my dad was actually the
guy that was in charge of the unit that directed those miniature shots. So it's always pointing
for me to see the Klandoff who dropped stuff. Really? Oh, yeah. That's really interesting.
That's awesome. That's them setting you up to say some more interesting things.
Yeah. Tell me something else that's interesting about something relevant. Do it.
Uh, the guys that did the explosions and the pyrotechnics on Starship Troopers,
same people that did, uh, a new hope and empire. Oh,
same guys that did the miniatures. Well, no, this explains why it also stands up today,
to be honest. Yeah, it does kind of stay up today. Yeah. Yeah. This was the movie almost wouldn't
have that look to it if it weren't for the fact that Sony had a division called Sony Pictures
ImageWorks that was still had a physical unit and the physical unit did miniatures and all sorts
of small range locked in, in camera effects. And unfortunately, when the digital stuff started to
pick up after that and Sony started changing, ImageWorks became a digital company. Uh,
and that physical unit was led by my dad. So that's the third one. Yeah. What do we,
what do we, and also what do we know about the armaments of these ships? Exactly. Are they
designed to engage in space battles essentially, or are they just transports? I mean, we, we don't
have information, unfortunately, not to my knowledge anymore. Again, the transport vehicles
available to the mobile infantry don't seem suited for battle against the alien enemy they're fighting.
Designed to battle them specifically. They are designed just for a general use, I imagine.
Yeah. And how are they not suited? Like the aliens, the aliens don't seem to have space
vessels. Like they seem perfectly suited. The fact that they can't withstand enormous plasma
blast is the contention, I suppose. It's just like, Oh, I mean, I guess you could argue that
they are capable of orbital bombardment, which fair enough. But the thing is that's actually
difficult. But that's also not true. They do have, uh, they do bombard planets before going in,
going down to them later. But I love, essentially this argument is, is like a magic gathering
argument. It's like, it dies to removal. It's like, well, no shit. Like the things can be killed.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It can be killed. That's true. Humans are shit once and they die.
Exactly. You know, it's like, just because things are not invulnerable doesn't make them shit.
Yeah. They seem to, I mean, they do seem to do a good job at what they do. And I think one of them
isn't there like an escape scene with one of the ships? It gets hit, but it's still integral
enough for a lot of them to escape regardless. Yep. Yep. You see some ships with massive chunks
torn out of them still being able to make it back to their base. Pretty resilient.
Well, I'd be curious if they have actual, like if there's a, if there's, um,
let's see after. So the Yamamoto was the ship
hit by a plasma launch from the surface, heavily damaged heavily. The ship returned to fleet
battle station Ticonderoga, where it was docked despite still being on fire. Yeah. I mean,
they seem to be fairly resilient. I mean, it'll obviously depend on where you get hit.
But I'm also, uh, I am curious what their armaments are. Maybe, uh, there's a
Wiki entry or whatever. These last few points, he's just shooting them out and they need to
reach that 10. It's just like, Oh, this magic number. And finally, our last flaw should be
rather obvious. Despite the mobile infantry existing in a world of advanced technology,
as we've previously discussed, they largely fight the gigantic bugs on foot.
They don't use much in the way of an air force or ground vehicles. And in the films
don't have exoskeleton suits that give them enhanced abilities in warfare. This seems almost
ludicrous. I need to know why. Yet the lack of an alternate means of engaging the enemy is a
catastrophic flaw. In other words, there is a look, a scene where they win to which the mobile
infantry does a great point. It does a great job. I mean, you know, I'm not going to deny that
it's like if they were, um, there's, there's things they should be able to do theoretically
that would give them more of an edge. Like, sure. They're not as good as they could be.
These have all been left out because the Hoven wasn't following the book for the military
tactics of the thing. It was the politics and philosophy of it.
Yeah. And it's very possible that like armies don't change overnight. So it's very possible
that the armies that we see deployed against the bugs were simply the ones that were kind of the
mainstays that were used in inter human conflicts, where if we don't have any like large scale wars
going on and it's mostly stuff along the lines of, uh, scattered resistance here and there,
terrorism here and there, then you need human beings to deal with that in a way that artillery
can't. Yeah. But the, the, the important point is that it just isn't following canon when it
comes to the military equipment. Like all of these problems are solved when you realize they're
actually probably about a dozen guys in flying mech suits that shoot nukes. Yeah. Where are
the tanks? Where's the air supports? Exactly. Where are they? That was the men themselves
were those things. That's why they call them the mobile infantry because they were in fucking
jumpsuits, nuke cities, you know, it's all been taken out. So yeah. Okay. It doesn't make any
fucking sense. I agree. But that's not what it was. And we also see in later movies, uh, yeah,
a much more, especially when they can just, it's all CGI and it doesn't matter what the pixel is,
you know, uh, they, they have all this stuff. They have the super exoskeleton rocket flying suits
and the big air forces and stuff. And it looks great. Common is reckless when she's moving the
ship. I, it would plot hole. Uh, someone, someone just sent a, someone sent a super chat might be
topical. Uh, aircraft is useless against artillery and tanks would be useless due to unknown terrain
of the planet. Try again. I don't know about useless. How is aircraft useless against artillery
unless you're talking about, I guess, are they suggesting that they couldn't use aircraft because
of the, uh, the, the alien artillery, but I mean, they can clear the area or confirm that they're
not there and especially smaller ships, surely because they can, they can avoid their ships and
like strike ships, gunboats, things of that nature. Um, and I don't know about tanks being useless.
It's like, sure. I see the idea that if they're using conventional treads, maybe they would be
useless in some areas because of the terrain, but, um, you would still have other options. You'd
still have artillery, especially if it's set up in a location, assuming it would be dropped in.
Like tanks were deployed and used against Mount Monte casino. They were used in Russia. They were
used in the desert. They're still used in the desert. They were used in more colleges. Tanks
are not useful just in flat terrain. Are they less useful in certain types of train? Sure.
But it's still a heavily armored gun carrier with half a dozen machine guns on it. And I think we're
going a bit far to assume that they can't have any other form of like movement. Like, why would we
assume that the starter troopers sort of technology means they'd only have that, that specific kind?
Like I assume they'd have some other stuff. Things like that would be like the bug is the
ideal platform would simply just be a fast, solid wheeled vehicle with a couple of twin
length heavy machine guns. You have to have some power armor suits. Yeah. Right. With jet packs.
But I don't understand this idea. Yeah. The train's not good enough for jet packs.
The idea that air superiority doesn't win the day is constantly countered by everyday
in Syria. The Russian military is basically taking back most of the land with the Syrian
ground forces doing the cleanup operation. Yeah. So if you could, someone could say air force.
Those fuckers don't even. Exactly. Yes. Yes. And there's all the artillery that's available.
That's horse carried or whatever mechanical that's on the ground, but you can't defend it
against aircraft that have what is it laser guided missiles or. Yeah. What are you going to do now?
Aircraft based weapon packages are at the absolutely most lethal. And frankly,
there is very little anti aircraft defense that remains that is actually effective. If,
if a civilized nation, if America wants to deliver a bomb to a target, there is fuck all you can do
to stop it. And that goes for whatever the aliens are going to have. They have those giant plasma
things that shoot slow projectiles. You can obviously send in. What's the A-10? What classified
bomber is that? Whatever it is. Close combat. Yeah. Yeah. That would wreck a lot of ass.
Yeah. So yeah. There you go. We've addressed something there. Definitely. Another chance to
rate the mobile infantry after my next video highlighting their positive. Oh, that's it. All
right. And if you haven't seen Alan's video on clone trooper flaws yet, please check that out
and vote there as well. I can imagine that being annoying too. It's like the same argument,
but it's copy pasted for Star Wars. But no, they make the opposites. They like the clones,
they didn't volunteer. They're just conscripted. They're like, okay. All right. I think they can
easily be countered by just going, hmm, an expendable army of the best bounty hunter in
the galaxy. Yeah. A short term, a short lived, temporary, essentially disposable, well-trained
biological unit that goes into battle again. Okay. Well, yeah, that's not unreasonable.
Um, I guess we'll just finish this out. And stay tuned for Alan's next video,
which covers the advantages of clone troopers. For now, my friends, remember Argentina,
obliterate the aliens and humanity first. Watch your face. Catch you next time. Generation films.
Peace. Toodle. We did it. Uh, I think he could have done a better job. That's just,
that's my take. Okay. Geez. Uh, bizarrely unfair in weird perspectives.
That was fun. I mean, yeah, I mean, it's one of those things where it's just like,
that's the problems was when you have like a list. Okay. We need to find 10 things. We can only find
three things. Fuck. Make up the rest. Well, sort of have to like split that up into like five more
somehow and then just make up the rest. Um, there is a, there was a guy in, in the chat called
blame the controller. And he, uh, he's let me know that he'd be interested in just commenting on some
of the stuff we've been over because of his, uh, experience. He's apparently watched the movie many
times, read the books, uh, eight years military with staff, Sergeant trained soldiers and was
deployed, et cetera. We could point out some extra bits about how this guy was making dumb arguments.
And, uh, he's able to be able to pick up. We can explore a little bit because I assume, uh,
how much time we got you guys for now are gone. And so I'm actually, I think I'm going to shoot off.
Can I, can we get even 10 more minutes or something? Not, not like watching a video,
just chatting. If I go and have a cigarette, then I'll be back and get another cup of tea and yeah,
go for it. Be back. All right. I'll be back in a minute. I've got another 30, then I'm going to
head out. All right. Sounds good for me. I feel like we're going to have to collect up a whole
bunch of questions for you guys. Stupid, stupid chats. They think just because you're here that
you will be here, uh, later. How insane is that? No sense of logic. Ridiculous. But, um, I will
think about trying maybe to do a defam future where it's literally just talking about the stuff that
super chats have said to you guys. Cause like I said, I've got like 30 questions saved from last
time and then there'll be the ones this time too. We had a backup video, but it looks like we won't
need it. Um, so, um, glib, how's your day been? It's been great. Excellent. I am, uh, I'm in the
process of working through a script right now and, uh, I had a table read the other day, so that's
going pretty well. How's your, um, does Patrick Willems thing going? My Patrick Willems video is
about 75% complete. I'd say there's a couple of things that I want to rerecord because I don't
really like my own points as much as I did. Uh, and then the visual aspect. Now I understand how hard
it is for you guys to find relevant footage. Sometimes it's, it's just, you have to go through
all your library, pull battles, but suffering through that as he's been editing his job,
wick video, he's like fucking nightmare. When you spend like an hour and you get,
oh yeah, I managed to get that five seconds, right? Yep. Yeah, exactly. It's really rewarding.
I I've been talking to a lot of people and, uh, showing them my stuff and people seem to like it.
So I think I'm on the right foot. Um, I wonder, I just, I'm nervous about what the effect is going
to be because I haven't done this before. So I don't know if it's going to be just a
flop or whatever and get like a couple hundred views or if it's going to have some kind of
impact. And if Patrick sees it, I wonder what his response is going to be. If he finds out you have
any association to eFap, you won't respond at all. I think it's not going to be hard. You'll just
need someone to tell him that. And then it'll be over. But yeah, I guess we'll see. It could be
interesting. Um, yeah. And I'm excited to get past it too, because I want to start just doing
straight movie reviews because responses I feel like are best done organically. Um, when you
have to actually like write something out and then read how the other person's wrong, it feels
like a core document. Yeah, I suppose I can read a couple of the questions I've got here. There's
specific for Arch, um, if you're interested. Go ahead. Like I'm going to pick these at random
until they're all gone one day, which I'm sure will happen. Uh, hey Arch, do you know the YouTuber
Luton09? His 40k lore vids are very entertaining. Yes, I do know him. The good shit. I know him quite
well, actually. Oh, well. There you go. Uh, hi Arch, if you're still here. We're, uh, you are my
web way drug into 40k. What is your favorite 40k or inspired by 40k game?
Favorite 40k game?
That's a difficult one. That's a large question these days, because there's quite a lot of
40k games now. It's gotta be one. I think, honestly, I gotta go with one of the old classics,
Shadow of the Horned Rats, just because of it did shit that was so cool and forward for its time.
Like it was Total War back in the 1900s. Uh, that's a good, uh, that's a good one. Yeah,
I don't play a lot of 40k games because I'm not huge in like RTSs and stuff, and a lot of them
tend to be that, but I really liked Space Marine and I have really enjoyed both of the Vermintide
games, though those are the, uh, end times. And I generally have a bit of a preference for fantasy
over sci-fi, but both of those, uh, game slash series have been really good, really good.
And then it ended with, and if you're not still here, hi, Jay, big fan.
Arch, can vampires sustain themselves on orphans?
It's a bit of a unique taste, I suppose, but I don't see why not.
Well, we established long ago that orphan blood has like slightly different rules,
but I suppose you would know whether or not it's possible vampire expert, you know.
I happen to say that it's going to be a lesser taste. It's probably going to sustain them
naturally. Yeah, it'll probably sustain them in the same way that the reflected light from the
moon doesn't kill them. Tell Arch that the deathcore of Krieg is the best regiment and anyone who
disagrees is a heretic. It's not far from the truth. And that Krieg Astartes would be scarier
than anything in the warp. Uh, they're not hard enough to be stardies.
Hi Arch, I love your content. Tell the story of Tuska Demon Killer and the Blood Prince Balls.
Blood Prince's Balls. Tuska Demon Killer. So orcs like fighting. That's the only thing they like.
They just want to fight. And so they want it into the warp and a demon world. The demon world being
a planet outside of reality where the demon in question decides all the rules and he got
insulted by the arrival of the orcs. Somewhat abridged version. Tuska didn't care about his
his offense and crushed his nuts in a power claw. The demon didn't enjoy this. The demon then
cursed them to stay on his planet for all eternity and being slaughtered every day for
best of eternity in a giant battle. The orcs could not have been happier.
Uh.
My god. So many for Sargon Arch. You're just not as cool apparently.
Yeah, sorry. Also Ho Ho Hi Hi Rags.
Ho Ho Hi Hi. And Cole for Jay. Yeah, no that's fair. Uh.
I think I've got any more for you in my selection. Yeah, there's the giant one. It's just so many
Sargon ones. Disgusting. Um. Well. And I think the guy is actually trying still to join. He's
having some trouble, unfortunately. But yeah, I figured.
Here's a nice little aside. You guys remember that actor dude, Juicy Smollett, who claimed to
have been attacked by people wearing mega hats? Yes, I remember all that. He has been indicted
again for false testimony. Oh boy. Haha. For the same thing? Yep. Oh joy. What's gonna happen to
him? So presumably whoever he paid off the first time has decided that he wants more money.
Well. Uh.
Oh yeah. I guess I can look at the new ones as they get in as I try and organize a bit better.
There's control after arch in the super chat. So I got 246 results. That can't be right.
Some things. Something's wrong. But the first one says Arch, what do you think of Titanicas?
Uh. Titanicas. Depends. Are we talking the video game? Are we talking the board game?
Are we talking the organization? It's a broad question. Uh. I have no idea. Which one are you
most familiar with? I'm familiar with all of them. Well if he's talking about the book Titanicas by
Dan Abnett. That was pretty good. He's talking about the board game. I don't know. I haven't
played it. If he's talking about the video game then that was okay. If he's talking about the
the board game from the fucking 80s I did play that and it was awesome.
It's a bit of a broad question as I mentioned. Uh oh. Now I'm getting like a whole bunch of
new ones for you specifically. Hey Arch have you heard of Voldemort's guide to Warhammer? His audio
drama slash lore is very nice. I have not heard about that. No sadly. If you could witness the
combat of any war in history what would it have been? The combat. So combat a battle. Yes I assume.
From a position of relative safety I would assume. Oh sure. Yeah. It'd probably be Kursk
because that would be fun. Just thousands of armored vehicles blowing each other apart.
And so it'd be after the guns after firearms not uh some sort of conflict that was in the middle ages.
In the middle ages just a lot of bunch of dudes bopping each other over the head with heavy metal
objects boring. I don't know. I think about boring to you. Talk about like uh like marathon and stuff
like that. You have naval aspects. A bunch of sweaty men just pushing up against each other for
very long periods of time. So you like the longer range explosive combat. The thing with
hoplite combat is it's yeah it's really boring. You've got the heavily armored dudes up front.
You know they're not really taking that much damage. You got big hoplons. They're they're
shoving and grunting at each other. It's more gay sex than combat in my opinion. Think about like
castle sieges and stuff of that nature. That could be nifty. Sitting on your ass for years at a time
waiting for the poor sloths. No no like sieges. Actual sieges. Like Jerusalem and stuff.
Think of all the all the cool ass battles that must have happened.
Those are our players though. You don't really want to attack. But you get to pick them and
you get to pick the individuals you want to see. You could wash the I don't remember the the name
but that siege the Romans did against the the Jews in in Israel where they had like a giant
mountaintop fortress and the Romans being the autistic little cunts they were. It was like
yeah we're just gonna build a ramp 100 meters tall. Screw you. Wasn't that the siege of Masada?
That might be it yet. I think I'm not sure. Man I just love the Romans approach to siege warfare.
Like there was the famous quote that nobody knows if it was real of one guy. It was like
aha we've got enough food to last us five years and a day and the Romans like cool. We'll come
back in five years and two days and take your city. Man I I bet there'd be a lot of crazy you
know medieval and classic battles especially naval warfare with ships ramming each other
and all sorts of cool stuff. I bet there'd be a lot of awesome choices.
Ramming. Penetrations meh. Morla playing tabletop with Arch and the Gang Wen.
Tabletop's for nerds. I play real man games.
Simpsons hit and run. That's a real man game.
Will Movie Bob be a villain in uh VTM Arch?
I don't think I can fit him in the script.
Movie Bob. Well I well first off he would be too he's too evil to be a Nazi
so he couldn't be on our side. He would probably fit in the Soviet Union though.
He's the one in charge of eating all the food. Like the
eating supernatural aspect of gluttony or something.
Arch have you seen my Arch Marines versus Tyranids fan art yet? That's from Mendez with hands.
Or Mendez with hands. I'm not sure.
Uh that sounds familiar. I have not. Where has it been put?
He's not specified but that was the account name. Um also Hi-Racks. Hello.
Uh doo doo doo doo.
Uh some uh Arch the Imperium using the Deathcore versus the CIS.
Deathcore man.
CIS. Are they referring to the droids? Yes to the droids.
Oh those guys. Um yeah probably Deathcore. The droids are retarded.
Droids aren't great um but there's a shit ton of them and some of them are pretty lethal.
Like the classes. The thing is with that kind of technology
you should actually be able to build an absolutely superb automated army really easily.
And yet they didn't. They made them comic relief.
Well yeah. The weird choice I always found was in the Revenge of the Sith they make the droid voice
goofier. Like in the first two they're almost like low pitched and very um
utility based noises as in like Roger what are you doing here how is this blah blah blah.
But then in the third one they're like uh I guess more child friendly and like remember
when they're like falling over they're like wow that sort of thing. It's like huh.
Why would you program your droid your battle droid to make that noise?
In case it's surprised it needs to be able to vocalize that surprise.
I need it yeah because like when I you know first saw it even as a kid I was just like this is odd.
These all feel like um Archie Weeb talk about your favorite isekai.
Isekai. All right that's we're getting into the the deep anime now are we?
Apparently.
Favorite isekai.
God damn it why these broad questions it's difficult to come up with one thing.
I'm so sorry the the realm of the super chat.
Favorite isekai um Tony of the evil that counts as isekai.
Um arch movie am I um I guess mobile infantry this is the death core of the krieg.
Fuck it DK okay this is the entire Terran Federation who wins.
That's cool they have more dudes.
And uh and the follow-up I guess is how large is the TFs and mobile infantry's trauma.
As in like I guess what would their losses be?
The trauma hmm large and sad.
The mobile infantry is in the way they have shown in the movies it's a terrible fighting force but
again probably due to budgetary restraints because they need fucking weapons that aren't you know
carried by randos.
Wait some people have said shad disagrees with what something arch said was there?
Don't know um that's to be specific.
Hey there arch love your videos man you helped me really get into 40k.
Quick question do you plan to do lore videos about the far sight enclave far sight himself
and or how that faction operates?
Possibly hell even probably but when only god knows.
Uh forerunners from halo or nekron from obviously uh force for arch please.
Necrons hmm the nekrons literally eat stars and use them as ammunition.
Oh I can do that anyone can do that it's easy.
The forerunners were pretty I mean they had the you know being able to build all the halo
installations and all that stuff.
Have we seen the forerunners have we actually seen what their civilization looked like or just
I think we only kind of just see the remnants of what they left behind and we have to go with
the implications of it as far as I'm aware.
Yeah I didn't play halo four or five so I don't know.
Uh but based on the scale of the stuff they were able to create and build and what it could
actually do um well let's put it this way if if space marine armor can be flayed like layer by
layer by a simple gauss gun from the nekrons if I recall then it stands to reason that they would
be able to take out the forerunners because they're not that much more powerful and I don't think
that stands to reason because a lot of the forerunners of what we understand
is they're we know them most by their large installations and they're like remember what
the halos were meant to do um yes so knowing that they could do that you know what else could they
do as a result or by implication it's certainly uh you have to you're right yeah so I don't know
I mean the ability to just destroy all sentient life within you know a galaxy essentially just
like that is that's pretty uh pretty potent but we don't know what the nekrons are doing though
they're just doing it slower because they like making people suffer I don't know if there's
enough information on the halo side of things and uh I think that the nekrons are deliberate
the satan or whatever deliberately ambiguous in how powerful they are um isn't it because like
the nekrons are actually a creation of another species right uh the katans tricked them into
all walking into a gigantic machine that turned them into brain dead uh metal monstrosities for
the most part so isn't isn't it more reasonable to say the katan versus the forerunners as opposed
to the nekrons because the tans were somehow a bitch slapped by the nekrons and the new fluff
and now they're their slaves basically oh geez well I don't I don't know anything about the new
additions I can't in my world just so that you understand katie still exists but in my world katie
still exists as well yeah so whatever the actual fluff is right now I can't call into reason but
um I don't know seems like there's not enough information
um arch imperium fighters versus f22 su35 other fifth gen I feel like that might be a
weird thing to listen to in terms of uh things we posted it in case it makes more sense when written
uh imperify the f42 22s yeah yeah that's that's a modern day fighter
it really depends like the thing is the the imperial fighters avoid capable craft
so they could literally just be chilling in the absolute upper atmosphere using guided weaponry
and the our modern aircraft would not really be able to engage them at all effectively
but down on ground level in a dog fight yeah the modern aircraft would actually vastly outperform
imperial thunderbolts and lightnings because they were designed to be rugged warhorses capable both
of atmospheric operation and void operations hmm uh hey arch have you heard of baldemort's
guide to warhammer his audio drama oh wait did i read that already i think i did you did yes i'm
so sorry um and that one was oh yeah is arch a car guy
car i own one it moves when i press buttons that makes you a car guy also speed run hit and hit
and run maybe one day if one metal comes over i'll speed run it with him we can hot seat it and have
drinks it'll be great uh i'm back hello hello and i'm not gonna be back for long oh wow abandoning
again huh you promised you'd be here for 17 hours i don't ever call making any kind of promise
like that and it's why i don't visit most of the countries in the world isn't there 17 hours away
or more whoa what a coincidence yeah seriously it does take ages to get anywhere i hate it
i will i mean i may as well just take this time to read out a bunch of super chats that came in
the last time you were here that were directed to you and uh see what we can do about getting as
many of them through you before you leave so saga did you see dancy pelosi stutter today
i didn't that would have been a month ago i guess
oh right that was eight ago no i didn't no i don't know that's referring to uh
sargon you're finally here go ahead well just her her impending loss in the impeachment presumably
hmm saga you finally on efap you absolute massive how are you um i'm very well thank you
gonna drop f for starters really infuriating what happened to him you got all that back now right
yeah good um all right can can you hear me now hello oh my god all right finally that was
embarrassing um i uh is the quality okay by the way yeah you sound good okay um i i have
i have three different microphones on my desk um there's actually a reason for it and i just
spent the last 15 minutes trying to figure out why a microphone wouldn't work on a computer
that it wasn't connected to um because i have it connected to a different computer
and i kept i'm like i was pressing the buttons i'm unplugging stuff i'm going in the back
i'm like why is this microphone why is this yeti not working it was working like literally 12 hours
ago and i finally came to the brilliant realization that i was using the microphone for the other
computer so problem solved excellent what did you uh what do you want to talk about well now we're
like an hour late but um uh no it's just like uh when when um i was hoping the video was going
to be longer but uh when he was talking about like just the military stuff um now you know
whenever you watch a movie and you see them doing something that you are proficient in
for a lot of you guys it's you know probably gaming and stuff right like every video game
depiction in a movie or tv is just beyond idiotic right like uh they have the flapping mannerisms
of like my mother did when the first time she ever tried to play mario brothers you know trying to
get the character to jump and move in the controlled around frantically um but when
you're talking about like military stuff like anyone who's been in the military like when they
when they do stuff in these movies like there's so much stuff that's wrong but i mean you can
expect it because you know they probably having yeah well you know what and the thing that's
actually aggravating is there are military advisors on all these movies every single every
single movie that has anything to do with the military whether it's realistic or or uh fictional
they have military advisors that are telling them to do stuff and like when i see mistakes and i'm
like how did you let this go through but um i guess when you're talking about like this dude
who's like reviewing a military movie and he's critiquing military things when he clearly has
no understanding whatsoever about how any of this stuff works um and uh again sorry go ahead i was
just going to ask you if you had any examples that you thought were like pretty pertinent like
was there anything in the tactics or the in starship troopers that you feel like he was unjustly
the way he treats the man they're not robots what do you think yeah what do you think about
the idea that they need to be sociopathic in order to rank the highest so here's here's the thing um
there is a there is a breaking down uh kind of aspect to it um when you get into basic training
um which is you know kind of the start of the movie uh they do treat you like garbage you know
they just like what you've seen in full metal jacket and the other ones like they treat you
like garbage um the point is to uh strip you down to basically just the raw you and then
they try to rebuild you in the way that the military needs you to be um you have to go
through some not pleasant stuff when you're in the army and you need to have the the mental
fortitude to deal with that stuff so it it starts out with very little things you know them just
making fun of you for having glasses or being overweight or something but eventually you have
to you have to realize that the potential end is you in a real firefight and your buddy who you've
been friends with for the last three years gets shot in the head like that's a very real thing
and you need to have the mental i mean no one is ever going to be fully prepared for something
like that but the idea is that you don't collapse into nothingness and you don't start just bawling
and curling into a ball you need to be able to to to do what needs to be done drag your drag your
buddy over to the side so that he's protected uh administer first aid if you need to and then
continue the fight so there is it's not it's not so much as like built making you know sociopaths
or nothing like that but you do need to have a mental toughness and an emotional toughness
and a lot of people just don't have that like um and certainly not to the level that the military
needs so they they need to they really do need to break you down when i was going through basic
training you know i always um i was just like you know it didn't it didn't faze me because i
knew it wasn't personal um i mean it was still you know there's certainly some things that would
tick you off um you know when you have to do push-ups and stuff because the idiot next to you
screwed up like it makes you mad but like none of it's personal um actually before i before i got
out they actually asked me to be a drill sergeant at boot camp and i was like no i think i'm i'm
gonna pass on that one i would rather just get out now hmm it's already interesting yeah yeah
are you going to relate it back to the whole uh sociopathy element that he was sort of advocating
for you um what did you what was your opinion on that sort of take from him the oh so i i do have
to throw a caveat here i didn't catch the like right when i started chatting in your live stream
is when i started catching i didn't catch it from the beginning so unfortunately he basically says
that like a flaw with the the mobile inventory is that they um they form very obvious like bonds
based on let's say let's for lack of a better tool like affection or love or they have very
human reactions to a lot of things they need to be hardened and turned into and uses the word
sociopaths as if like that's uh no that's dumb you well don't know if you need to you every
everyone every soldier like you always form attachments to the other people in your in your
platoon and even if you here's the i'll give you a great example okay when i was going through uh
this is another basic training story when i was going through basic training my platoon third
platoon warriors we hated one another like i cannot stress the amount of internal animosity
that was present in in this platoon we absolutely hated one another but when it came to the training
exercises we dominated everyone every single time um because when you're in that platoon
even if you don't really care for the guys next to you you are still on the same team and you're
still on the same goal so you uh you're gonna work together and you're going to do everything you can
like you know it's funny like you do the like the training obstacle courses and stuff and like
you're helping like yesterday you wanted to punch this dude in the face and today you're helping him
climb over the wooden barricade and you're like you know giving him encouragement come on come on
so um there's a sort of uh camaraderie that you get and that's from people you don't like
when you actually like people you know it's even more so you are not like you're never just going
to uh be like this robotic terminator thing on the battlefield as much as you want to complete
the mission you care about your your friends i mean this is why men will jump on a grenade
in order to protect their buddies right like it's not that you're less human it's it's that you
you are very much human you're even more to an extent because you're willing to give your life
to save your friends even the dude who you don't even like in the platoon so the idea that everybody
is just like these sociopaths or whatever it's just ridiculous can i ask can i ask us a quick
question have you ever had any experience with conscripts before and if training with other
military or yeah um i was in nato for two years uh stationed in Naples Italy and um that was a
disaster i'd rather go back to iraq um for the is the sake of Naples just to clear one thing up
Italians are not white um i also i also worked um closely with uh some british soldiers when i was
in in Kuwait and uh in iraq there's also you know uh the uh the international forces and stuff so
um i also did some training exercises with uh a bunch of people some polish soldiers and stuff
did you ever did you ever have any accidents in your training exercises or live fire exercises
um yes uh nobody got killed though you know that trope in the movies where they go and they
they're going through training and they throw the grenade and some idiot always bumbles it and like
drill sergeant's like already pulls you behind the bar that actually happened when i was going
through basic training so it's not totally it's not totally unreasonable that something like that
would happen it is real like so that was i truth be told that was the single most terrifying
experience of my entire basic training um i went through the live fire that you guys mentioned
before where they they're literally shooting over your head with live rounds like it's about 10 feet
off the ground um and you have to crawl through mud and there's like literal the real explosions
we granted they're behind these little kind of uh you know fence barricade mound thingies
but there are real explosions real bullets going over your head and you have to crawl through it
that's not very fun but the the single most terrifying experience was with the live grenades
because um some of these guys are dumb all right and and uh you know so that's another point where
he's wrong about the army having all hyper intelligent people oh god no some of these guys
well who thought that they were all hyper intelligent though oh no no well he was saying
that he's a bad protagonist well yeah he thinks that rica an idiot so his scale of what an
intelligent person is is very high none of us anyone who spent any time around the military
will know that it like this is why i get really annoyed that fucking the progressives in london
are taking a massive dump all over like north fc it's like no you fucks these are the people who
fucking fight for the country like it's not you is it it's not middle class soft-handed journals
fighting for the country no it's the rough patriots from the heartlands who end up fighting for the
country so i i there's an aspect of that though i've always just hated the kind of shitting on
the working class it's like dude i've spent more than enough time around these fucking people and
to know where they go and why they do it you know it's all it's all quite high-minded really as well
so yeah anyway sorry i don't know it's fine um but it's just an obvious you know well i mean you
have to realize that there's there's different jobs too right like it's so i was uh i was what's
a 25 bravo uh the long fancy name is information systems operator analyst uh normal speak it's just
computer guy so i i ran networks um i you know managed uh everything on the the land and the land
and all that sort of stuff um but uh i mean you have different specialties in the military not
everyone is like just in you know uh a knuckle dragon tree soldo yeah moron right um but uh
going i want to tell the grenade story because it's actually pretty funny so um
um some of these guys are not too bright right and you have two about 200 soldiers okay we're
in two single file lines so 100 each and so in front of you is is men to your side to behind you
every single one of them has a live grenade held to their chest and i wouldn't trust some of these
guys to carry the eggs in from the grocery store and these guys are holding live grenades i was so
that was legitimately terrified because i was afraid that one of these idiots was gonna what
is gonna do it and then when you know i went up there and i just like okay you know you do the
little thing there's a sequence that they teach you you hold the grenade a certain way you swipe
out the uh uh you sweep out the key you let the uh the spoon pop and then you throw it right um
and i went up there i did my thing that's it good get out get out of the line um it's it's
actually kind of funny because when you when the drill sergeants are dealing with you
when you have live ammunition or a live weapon um or something they will treat you like
uh you know uh the best ever right but as soon as you're done you you stupid mother get the hell
out of here right like it's it's it's hilarious to see the switch but after i threw mine yeah
someone fumbled theirs and they had to duck behind the the barricade thing and it went off
and i was like oh my god and i'm like i'm just glad this is over so yeah so they're not um they're
not all uh rocket scientists that's for sure they're not and it's it's not an insult to say
that's just a fact with highlights that you guys are misinterpreting the video you wasn't comparing
them to a modern army who's comparing them to space marines and i think that's as retarded as
being like cavemen and modern military they're both human so oh what did he say their tactics
yeah and i wasn't well so it's apparently a series where he's judging space marines versus
other space marines versus other space marines and to like the comparison for example with um
master chief on intelligence it's so unfair when you know the context difference like it's just
like how can what is the point of this discussion if you're going to be bringing in like things from
fiction that are completely different like like what is it you're going to conclude that they're
not doing as good of a job as the people in halo when there's a completely different technology
and time i mean i i agree that that's a valid thing to do but maybe you should have mentioned
not if you conclude like it's what i'm trying to say is that like it's an interesting comparison
to say which one might win in a theoretical fight but i figured that was obvious from the get go
with something like this comparison you're like which is the better space marine fucking master
chief or rico it's like i don't think there's even an argument to be made actually rico would
destroy him uh if it was in the book uh it's kind of a shame that they didn't do it in fact um
i i think maybe star gun can back me up on this one um i believe the starship trooper book is the
thing that popularized the idea of mech infantry because in the book they had power armor and it
was described as looking like a giant gorilla and you were like 10 feet tall what does master
chief do i i've never never played it there's a halo comes from right his abilities aren't
particularly like imagine a really really really good i'm gonna have to head out so i'll talk to
you guys again later well uh before you go do you want to just let people know about your channel
so you can you can go check you out if they haven't already
or not it's completely well everyone has to do it is a it is a rule his channel's arch warhammer
go and watch it what does he do there you got to tell people what he does there otherwise they'll
be confused i speak noises what about warhammer 40 000 usually yes and other things and he's deep
in the law if you if you liked his perspective if you enjoyed his voice check out his channel
it is in the chat and in the description and uh thank you very much for uh hanging out with us
it's a lot of fun dude we'll have you back sometime if you're willing yeah sure well this was a lot
of fun but i have to run so i'll talk you guys uh talk you talk to you maybe talk us sometime yes
yeah we will catch you later all right currently he has some good uh human intercourse oh yes
that's a great phrase how much longer do you guys have right now i i i woke up like right
when i started talking in the chat i was up all night i figured that uh once sargon has to pop
out unless you've said what you wanted to about that video if you both pop out we'll be doing
super chats then until we reach the end of them and i'd happily bring you on for a future episode
if we ever get to cover uh i'll see about checking out because some people complaining about that um
they did a video on the clones from from star wars and if they've done one and you know maybe me and
rags can sort of vet it see if they say some stupid shit and we can make that a future one
if you want okay might i think they might all right you know clothes don't think for themselves
i might duck out myself actually it's gone midnight now and i don't want to be up all night
oh shut up i played left dead with you like fucking five a.m the other day yeah i know i know
but i've got stuff i've got stuff to do tomorrow that is absolutely i didn't have anything to do
it would be fine um in that case would you like to uh tell the people about your channel a little
bit before you go oh um my my channel is a cad daily and i just talk about uh just political
things and things that are on my mind i guess but you know i try to make it interesting i don't
waste people's time there is a good chance that most people in chat have heard of you already
but hey if not i knew you enjoyed uh his take on starship troopers being a wonderful utopia
and the the bugs got what they deserved joker style then uh check out his channel which they did
and it is
i love what you've been doing sorry i haven't been watching you since uh you had that white
background and uh we made a good game again so you can't get stopped that's a that's a definite
age it doesn't it doesn't everything just feels so different now it does but i think that we're
winning yeah i agree i think we are winning but it's a totally different fucking world man
like back back in 2013 you couldn't actually criticize feminism publicly it would get you
shut down in the same sort of um like worse than worse than now it's something you genuinely got
persecuted over yeah and so much more mainstream now yeah i know i'm pretty sure yeah i was just
gonna say i'm pretty sure i found rags through you sargon so i owe you extra anyway um right
one one more thing before you go guys oh there was there was a whole bunch of uh super chat
questions we'll get them to you one century it'll be fine i just wanted to read this one out to you
this one says sargon consider this your redemption chance don't fuck up
reacting to a top 10 things wrong with storm starship troopers that was your redemption
uh i knew i could redeem myself so you did it anyway thanks for having me on guys it was
really fun yes yeah i'll speak to you i'll speak to you around catch you later
someone said uh you didn't get through betty that was super chassis off our ass off we got through
more than i expected i expected zero we got through like 10 not bad for sargon and arches
collection which will be ever growing and uh this is the thing i can't promise that these will get to
them i'll do my best to sort it out but it's the way the cookie crumbles the only ones that are
guaranteed are essentially me and rags will be able to get them every time i still got like one
or two for j in here i think and er and aden a long bone there's a couple of bits and bobs
here everywhere i just try and get them if i can get it um but yeah i guess uh also do do you go by
blame the controller or do you prefer a different monica um most people just call me blame or btc
lame all right yeah um what else was in that video that was pretty significant uh
i don't think anything that came oh yeah i guess the medic calling for the um
yeah that's yeah that that was dumb um so whenever whenever you have a training exercise
it doesn't even need to have live ammunition live fire um any training exercise is always
always going to have um an ambulance with medics nearby like always like even if it's just a ruck
march um on fridays uh usually well the basis where i was at anyways on fridays they would
always have these huge runs right with like the entire company or the brigade or whatever right
so you've got literally thousands of people running uh kind of like you know almost marathon
level uh number of runners and stuff and you're going to have ambulances and medics
available for that too and they're going to be spaced out intermittently i mean that's their
job they it's it's kind of like being uh you know just like a paramedic an emt or something like
that's that's what they do they just you know if they're not actually responding to a real
emergency right then and there then they're going to be um assigned to whatever training missions
are going on uh for and it doesn't have to be their company right because there's you know
there's medical companies and medical brigades and then you have you know signal and infantry
and all these others so they basically they just get dispatched out to like okay we got
the the infantry guys over here doing this at 10 am and then we got you know the artillery guys
doing this at 2 pm and blah blah blah so they're all there's always going to be there i know it's
like a trope where people like yell medic you know after someone gets hit but that's what actually
happens so it's that's what i thought yeah it's not a trope gets killed you still call for a medic
right even if they're clearly yeah um i was uh i had a something called uh combat lifesaver uh
designation it's like um it's like a baby medic basically like they teach you how to give an iv
cpr um you know how to give a what is it called it's like a nasal pharyngeal thing
it's when you stick a tube down someone's nose so they can breathe intubation yeah um
so like i when we would go running um i had to like carry my combat lifesaver pack with me which
had like some uh iv and and you know this the uh the other stuff in it which was fun uh i enjoyed
having to run with that extra gear um and then uh so like even if if someone was like injured
or someone needed help right right away like i could do it and if i couldn't do it then the
medics would do it who were like 500 feet away so the idea that like there isn't going to be
medical staff or or that you shouldn't call for them it's just so dumb well this is the thing i
mean even as laven who have like no real experience with any of this definitively in a personal
matter it's just like i don't know it seems like it makes sense that you would call the phlegmatic
like i mean even even if the guy is is like stone cold dead like he was in in that example
like are you just gonna leave the body there and continue the continue the the training
he should have shouted coroner or something else i suppose like i need someone to arrange
the funeral for the departed so i'll tell you i'll tell you exactly what would happen
like if it was real life exactly what would happen if someone gets injured like that um
because someone someone actually this here's another story um they were doing training
exercises in uh in coate before we went north uh into iraq and um someone managed to shoot
themselves with uh their own round and you might be asking oh like they just aimed it down at
their foot and they shot no no no no um it's much more interesting than that so they have
these firing ranges where they're practicing now as it turns out hard metal surfaces will
cause a ricochet oh my god and someone so there's like a bunch of targets down there something
about this there's a bunch of uh targets down range and there's also some um metal containers
shipping containers well someone got the the good idea fairy to shoot one of the metal containers
and it ricocheted back and i i don't know where exactly it hit him i think it might have hit him
in the leg or something i mean it was no it was the arm that's right it was the arm uh she hit
herself in the arm because i saw her walking around with a sling later on um and uh she
actually she actually was dumb enough to ask for a purple heart which is for injuries but it has to
be sustained by enemy fire and shooting yourself is not going to get you the award um but uh so
whenever something like that happens right whenever whenever someone gets injured like
everything stops like is this like a remote control with a freeze button from a bad anim
adam sandler movie you press the stop button nobody does anything nobody moves they find out
what happened why was this person injured and then there's all sorts of paperwork after action
reports and all that sort of stuff after after the effect so it's not like like it i don't know what
that guy was like why is he yelling for a medic what do you expect them to do like just continue
with the training exercise and leave the dude bleeding on the on the floor yeah yes precisely
that most efficient training to fight the bugs yeah anything else that sort of uh came to mind
if you wanted to talk about from the video because i know that there was just he was saying all kinds
of things yeah unfortunately like i said i i didn't come in till till the tail end of it
i wish i would have gotten it earlier but um i'm sure you said all kinds of stupid stuff we'll just
assume um well in that case i was gonna say like i will uh i'll go use a contact now or at least
through discord i will uh set some up with you in future if you're interested and i'll try and
make it military focused if that is more preferable i mean uh you you can if you want um i i do have
a little bit more knowledge than just military so i i mean i'm open to coming on for anything
oh it's always just nice to find like a topic that people are more familiar with rather than
generally familiar yeah but um as far as my my channel goes i do gaming so it's if you like
overwatch then you can come to my channel but otherwise if you're looking like i actually am
trying to start like a uh a modern media pop culture kind of thing um with movies and stuff
but i haven't gotten that off the ground yet so right now i just run the uh do you have a link
to your channel or something um yeah it's uh it's just blame the controller um do you do that a lot
do you blame the controller uh not as often i i came up with the name because i wanted something
that sounded like um an excuse and when i was growing up like you know if mario fell in the pit
or something it was not uncommon for people to quite literally blame the controller like you know
i pressed the button why didn't it work kind of thing so that's where it came up with that's the
right on well i put your uh channel into chat and i'll put it in uh a little bit later as well as
arches and i will pop it in the description uh on the re-upload official i appreciate it guys
it's been fun i you know i like listening to you guys and it's uh pretty cool to get to to join you
in and rip someone apart well thank you for your insight it's uh it's been interesting and hopefully
we'll hear more of it in the future as well all right guys catch you later toodles yes yeah
all right rags uh and i'm glad i suppose we we're four hours in which means we have a grand total
of seven to knock out super chats nice i wonder if it'll be possible nah i'm just gonna we can
i'm just gonna hit the ground running on these we we're ready to do this we're ready to do this
all right first one hi mauler i have a suggestion for discord in the description of the cantina how
about posting a link to 100 hours of cantina band music on loop now when the discord was
being set up and turned over to a star wars themed one we actually did at one point didn't we like
have a bot that sat in the cantina playing the music on relatively low i think that was like a
thing we put in place i'm pretty sure but didn't you take it away because it was being abused oh
i can't i didn't take it away but the mods might have i can obviously there's probably a lot of
ways that can not only go wrong but also be really annoying so but uh obviously if you need
cantina music in the discord just throw it up on one ear browsers it's uh it's the right way to do it
efap quote without context of the day it's a subtle reference to the liberation of clams everywhere
oh yes clam liberation is very important let's say that quote makes a lot of sense
i i very much stand by it if i said it whether or not i said it um i've been waiting for this
efap i'm sicker tired of people not understanding starship troopers godspeed sargon also high rags
and moosely hello oh i like talking about starship troopers though uh people get very
testy about it i have seen from different different discussions online and i'm just
it's all right right uh it's been so long since my last efap i mean oh yeah i guess because
efap saturday and tuesday obviously the next one now won't be until the following weekend
so it'll be a bit of a gap but the infinity tisms five and a super chat catch-up three are both
gonna come out in between then and maybe if it feels about right we could try and get those
lord the rings efaps out finally oh my god that was like wow that was so long ago there
are a few alive now who can remember it exactly i'm actually concerned that the editing on it is
actually going to be like inferior as fuck to to the new editor's work with the batwoman episodes
and i'm like hope people enjoy the commentary at that point because it was before i started
going more crazy with the editing and stuff so but yeah i i want to do a premiere of fellowship
with the ring i am just concerned that it might get booted because live streaming copyright
content seems to have different rules than uploading it um so we'll give it a shot if
it doesn't work we will redo we will we will re-edit we'll do things hopefully it'll come out
because i'm excited to see it i want to see it oh yes again uh sargon and arch what foul warp
magic is this yes we finally got him here and the stream did not die that takes magic here
it was the emperor's will um disappointed that i'm leaving for work right as the crossover i've been
waiting for takes place but this will make this will make tomorrow much better i'll see everyone
later and service guarantees citizenship of course psa birds of prey sucks don't see it
also hi sargon arch and rags hello and uh yeah i've been hearing a lot of things about birds of
prey nothing that it's fantastic but also nothing that it's like a complete horrible disaster
i've mostly just been finding it sits that are like bad to okay it's in that area um it might
be worth checking out just because it sits in that area because i can't think of a movie that
was great that changed its title after the opening weekend of course that sign i think
that's definitive evidence that they're desperately trying to get it to be more successful and it's
just not um oh wags is upside down did you go visit fad i did more uh oh wait i read that uh
so build a wall around yellow stone got it i don't know if a wall's gonna do much but uh
maybe if the wall is made out of some space age energy field that can actually
stop the volcano or what is yellow stone considered is it a volcano yeah okay apparently it's gonna
split open in that geyser whatever is gonna become a volcano and then everyone dies because i'm pretty
sure like within the vicinity of the major primary blast everyone just like fucking gets
booped but the whole world will experience horrible shit as a result of that and yeah
whenever i hear about it in like media it's always described as like yeah we don't actually
know it could just fuck everything up in any moment it's like oh what if you like could you
theoretically sneak in there if you're a crazy person and drop a grenade into it would that
like fuck everything up or would it take a hell of a lot more than that to set it off i think that
the the idea is that the plate tectonics have to move to release okay like a grenade wouldn't do it
pressure no it has to be deeper um oh what yield of explosive would be able to do it if possible
at all i wonder oh i mean i'm not a i'm not a geothermic scientist damn it that's the whole
reason i brought you on dude i assumed that it would happen uh somewhere that was inside where
the magma actually was and had enough pressure to push it through but at the same time i don't know
if that would set off the necessary reaction to cause it all to explode outwards um so suggested
a duke is like well at that point the duke will just do the damage anyway uh but yeah it it looks
to be most people describing it as a super volcano and that it's overdue to uh do some tisms
so that'll be something else to be concerned about yeah
uh hey there hey man there's a creamy sheave imposter using a different pfp in chat my youtube
account is creamy sheave palpatine while his is just creamy sheave uh we'll try and keep an eye
out for that we wouldn't want two quotes being attributed to the wrong creamy sheave
remember the full creamy sheave palpatine there's this is important difference
the ewok of creamy i know right the ewok cannot commit 50 of crime if you disable his hand
this is true i saw someone last stream tell rags to sit on their face so i will say it too rags
sit on my face also hi wag oh oh hello and uh absolutely man i'm down with that i hope you know
what you're doing and that's from the guy who's asking about favorite star destroyers so yeah
not bad you must have liked my answer a whole lot don't worry mola time stamping at three minutes
i give the stream 18 more minutes before total collapse we survived we survived hey fappers
why don't you like interstellar i love it and do you think tenet will be good despite the time
shinaniguri gant shit shinaniganturi uh who knows a tenet who knows i'd be interested to see it
as for interstellar um since we want to do you know i'll we'll do the thing like we did with
mandalorian the uh the navigation via love portion of the film where they discussed that is like the
stupidest thing ever or at least it's up there um and the method by which all of the problems are
solved when you take a step back and look at the entire plot line of the movie is utterly ridiculous
and the film really gives me the impression that it thinks it's super fucking smart and uh
wants to try and convince you that that everything that's happening is perfectly
understandable and reasonable when i think it's the complete opposite and there's a there's a
whole bunch of other things like the sun so rags tell me if you're like a let's say a frustrated
farmer who's a lot okay a lot of your crops are getting burnt up or infected all right so you're
in a bad mood and then um you find out that some of your crops are set on fire by somebody
like sabotage and you spend a decent portion of the day stopping all that from happening
you come home and do you know what you find what do i find you find your son sitting at a table
and a doctor having checked something about him now of course you're pissed about that right
yeah what's up so the doctor says to you your kid has a serious problem he's like
you can't live with the with this area anymore you can't breathe properly so what is your reaction
to that oh well i i guess we gotta go somewhere else no no tell me what the problem is no no no
you punch him my son you punch the doctor oh okay like how dare you have a breathing problem in my
house and uh it's it's a part of the film where you have to slow because they basically it's it's
shot quite um the soundtrack is is going a bit crazy because it's it's while uh Matthew McConaughey
and Matt Damon are fighting each other it's intercuts between these two things i believe
and it blows my mind how stupid that scene is he's like how fucking dare you check my son it's
like okay all right um enjoy your dead son then it's it's weird um but there's a lot of things
that i guess i should eventually be able to go over when i decide to cover interstellar one day
and uh i know it's a tad irrational how much i hate it i just felt extremely condescended too
when i was watching the entire film well in the cinema i was just like i don't i don't think
you're being irrational at all it's totally rational when they brought in the power of love
or whatever that that was like jumping the shark for the movie for me because it's the movie tries
so hard to be somewhat uh realistic if not accurate and then it just pulls this kind of
abstract thing like they couldn't figure out how to logically solve this issue
and don't even get me started about the fucking water planet
oh my yeah is this the one where it's so shallow they could walk on it but there's a
enormous wave heading toward them but they thought it was that's the that's the deep end
that's the deep end of the planet it's like a pool it definitely does the thing where it's like
hey man it's um it's like sci-fi and gravity and it's fine it's just like uh okay but it doesn't
change the fact that the characters are extremely stupid the moon is very close to this planet and
it's moving very fast so all of these waves are moving fast as well that's what we're supposed to
assume with that um but yeah hopefully that's that's enough for now in terms of why i don't
like that movie but i do actually want to make a video on that one day one day uh what's worse a
communist or a youtube system or youtube system okay uh at least with the communist you sort of
know what you're getting but with youtube it's like every day is a magical surprise and you have
no idea what wonderful things will happen today uh we got a question for mr sargoni i'll have to uh
save it quick play sargon's theme i don't even know what that would be quick play sargon's theme
well now they've got a clip of you saying that how wonderful for them oh my god now they have
to come up with sargon's theme uh the only reason mauler won't release the original i hate
everything chat is because he revealed he had the gay sex with movie bob during it i cannot confirm
or deny that may have been confirmed or denied okay uh hey rags well it just says hey rags oh hey
and then it asks me to pronounce a word i want to ask you to pronounce it first okay
the silence is definitely they want you to pronounce that well i will pronounce it it's
a welsh word but they want you to pronounce it well they don't actually i'm curious to see what
you would pronounce it as uh i'm gonna say simru it's actually pronounced kumri
kumri so it's kumri
what is kumri mean what is it what does that word mean
oh uh the i'm pretty sure it's welsh or wales let me check
because there's a party named after that and i i never knew what that meant
i know a plaid beans yeah it means wales
ah we yeah so that's like the the nation name is there a name for welsh people that's like that
yeah uh disgusting crap i mean well i'm not 100% sure
the welsh what is the welsh in in in wailish is what you're asking yeah
or not i don't know what are you asking oh i was just asking what the name for the
welsh people are in welsh so what is welsh in welsh the yeah but for the name of like
the people like we're americans and someone from wales would be what in welsh is it just called
welsh they are the welsh yeah that's that's why it's it actually applies to us but when you guys
like speak american we could actually say speak welsh for the welsh people you can't say speak
american for the american people you know so it's so kumru the word means wales yes
but welsh people are not kumru something it's just well welsh oh well i don't actually know what um
i guess oh kumri that's what it means to welsh is kumri
kumrag what okay cool so like that
no rag it's clearly spelled this way see that that's how it's felt
i need you to come and get the kumri for me i made a mess in the you do with the
fucking this accent what the hell that's not welsh at all you need you need to
bring it into the kitchen because i uh this accent you're doing that is not welsh
no one no like we are going to india today now that you're going to talk like a welsh man
it's completely different what you're doing is fucking nonsense i am i just came from india
you're going to watch doctor do a little and you'll be able to uh nail the welsh accent
thank you come again no uh oh great my two favorite youtubers oh no my least two favorite
youtubers i'll let you decide who is who um well obviously i'm the favorite i guess me and rags
were the favorites yeah i'm cool with i guess they're the favorites and i guess glib and blame
are your least favorites who would have thunk it that's exactly the joke i was gonna make yeah
who would have thunk i agree it's not even a joke sargon maula gets your tree fiti this month well
there you go uh hey sargon do something with razor fist i can keep that for him
lol not even finished with the movie bob or nazi quote and here you are with two massives
hello wags hello i i feel like that was a very interesting uh so that's a very good welsh accent
i i've been surrounded by it my whole life so it would make sense that i could probably chat says
it checks out yeah um boo maula efap at the same time as metal stream yes metal tried to steal our
viewership and he was pretty successful but he couldn't keep going so he had to he had to give up
i'm sorry and question for sargon could trial be kept i don't know what to do about this ranks
like we'll have to even if we did a stream where it was solely answering questions from super
chats with sargon and arch i feel like we still wouldn't get through all of them because then all
of the super chats would be asking them questions again if you know what i mean just infinite
because we can do it because we can do those catch-up stuff but you know what do we do with
these i don't know greetings from the country of le fromage i can't wait until sargon crashes
this fap jokes aside i thought you would like to hear that sardonic asked heard about your chat
with i hit everything maula they hate it and want any discussion between you two to stop
okay i saw that on the reddit i don't know yeah sardonic has people oh it's sorry it says are
sardonic has it's not the actual i obviously i seriously doubt yms and i had everything would
say anything like they would never want to speak to me again i i'd be surprised ralph maybe
i think i yeah i did i sent him a tweet before i don't think he does dms i could try an email
but um i haven't tried that yet i don't know yeah i don't know he would be an interesting
person to talk to just to understand why he was going off on joker specifically i mean
it's not like his content is consistently bad i like some of his reviews a lot
yeah i sound like a grown-up stewie griffin minus the gay
minus the gay all right remember when he was evil not gay yeah it's kind of like smithers
in simpsons where the gayness was sort of like some implied stuff that you could run with that
create some fun jokes but then they seemed to crank it quite significantly and started to become
like oh this is less funny and more strange now it's like their character i don't know
um because i remember they made like a whole episode about smithers coming out
and it was i remember watching him feeling like this feels fucking strange like there's so much
focus on this because i used to just love the idea that he was gay and that it was something that um
didn't have to be spotlighted do you remember the uh the joke that everyone always references is he
has like a naked mr bird screen saver on his computer it's just the kind of thing he's like
wait what and he just like lisa sees it he just goes oh you should probably ignore that
uh i thought starship troopers was trying to show a fascist society positively and portraying
it as all right from the audience point of view was the most interesting um well i mean that's
what this whole there's a good portion of the stream about that today i think it's an interesting
discussion that sort of goes back and forth and a lot of it brings up the conversation of death of
the author like literally stabbing the author to death once they've hit publish be it on a on a
movie or a book or anything else uh also high rags and happy birthday early or belated um oh
thanks very much uh early by day it'll be uh it'll be tomorrow how many hours is that we might
actually make it the five well oh god uh it's it's 6 41 pm here oh so yeah we got another five
and a half hours to go maybe we've got a lot of stupid chests to get through so yeah we could
also i've read i've read a few that was a little bit ahead there my man um status of the game of
thrones season eight end video uh it's gonna be on the way i do want to make it um it's just
there's other things i've got to get through as well so it'll happen eventually who let the
inquisition in here be mindful of your heresy well yeah we kind of are heretics it's um
sargon best doggo corgis or rags damn i'll just save that for i think you know i think we know
do we know what he would say though ranks he is a bit of a he's a he's a dog traitor is he not
is this i don't know if this was confirmed um hello long man and rags hello hi have you
heard of or seen the greatest american hero it's a cheesy silly and funny tv show with decent
writing check it out you'd like it i've never heard of it never heard of it yeah cool uh have
you heard of josh keefe i've enjoyed his videos but his latest one was bad it bothers me because
he's done well at being objective in earlier videos it's titled 2010s action movies
uh i've got no idea who he is but i can give that a look see i suppose um
i'll write a note you never know where uh videos to cover come from in the life of an efappa
could be from anywhere could be from your own mom they just drop them in you're like oh thanks
uh do hello masses i'm genuinely it's genuinely touching and great that you take the time to
listen to your super chat slash chat um and have a personal contact with your community thank you so
much for this hope this goes on forever well yeah um i like interacting with the peeps
i like it too what they think i like it too um and yeah uh as for efap going on forever the sad
as for efap going on forever the sad reality is that it will destroy itself one day right
we get to episode 10 billion and i think that'll just be mean rags are like hey welcome to efap
hey welcome dear to the new efappen space this new star wars episode isn't so good
star wars episode 412 is is terrible i don't like this new female character she's annoying
four good star wars movies in the last 500 years and then i just go quiet words rags it's like
i think he's dead he's dead he's like nope i'm here uh do do this efap is going on my increasing
backlog hopefully i get to finish it in march when i when i'm my own boss freelancer cool i'll
share some of that sweet moolah with my first big paycheck for now shut up and take my pennies
very well sir thank you so much and i'm glad you're enjoying it good luck with becoming your own boss
was loving buffy until saith green showed up oh you don't like saith green i like him saith green
i don't know if it's maybe a personal thing maybe he said some tismi things in real life but
always liked him in uh austin powers robot chicken and borphy
thoughts on mathematically lost art of demon souls not a huge fan of that video and this is the
thing i really like mathematically but uh i feel like he's he's advocating for like games that just
explore different directions in the hope of finding some gold as opposed to deciding this
is how you do it and you only do it that way is too restrictive and as much as i can appreciate
the the former can lead to a lot of amazing things i don't want to celebrate when they do
it and they create garbage so for example i think michael ash is a shit boss in bloodborne but he
defends that one as being a great example of exploring loads of different ideas they're just
like he runs away from you awkwardly until you get into a fight with him where he has like two moves
one of them can instantly stun you it can can infinitely stun you if you're not careful
um i've got there's loads of clips of uh fortier playing that
boss and he loses his fucking mind and it's hilarious um so i would rather be definitive
and say like okay they would you know like i hate the argument that like ryan johnson's
better than jj because at least he was trying something new i'm like um yeah i suppose it was
a new idea to fuck everything up to that degree but i don't
just you you i feel like i've made this argument before you know what i'm talking about
but uh i love that because that's new everybody knows that
boo i don't like automatically good at this point we have our own culture based on our
memes i hope it's not too much for guests anyways hope you had fun
norst dar mauler no and hi rags hello norst dar indeed norst dar um hey mulesbury don't tell rag
but i'm currently or i'm going to california to meet my new niece what move why would that bad
you hate california you're going to california to to meet his new niece meet your new niece all right
maybe some some kind of maybe i'm assuming this is just a she's like her with the door open over
in california is that what's going on oh i assume his brother or sister just had a kid
and but he says don't tell rag don't tell rag yeah that's the part i was asking about i was
confused i was like why would rag be upset about that but again california could be lax on toilet
door laws could be uh what movie slash games slash things should i show her first to be a super
duper cool tisms uncle go with some classic animated disney movies yeah i've got some uh
judy empire i got some nephews just be like cool around him and enthusiastic and don't be dull and
boring and well he was asking what media to show him what he's asking what media to show him oh uh
uh maybe some of the older animated movies that are a little weird because to them it'll be it
won't be like anything else you know like have them watch return to ours and see if it scares
them for life or if they just yeah yeah or wizards fuck it did we talk about space wizards a lot land
wizards man they're terrifying i don't know i think nowadays like playing video games with them
would be a thing an option if you have that yeah prepare yourself for fortnite well responsibly
who's your guy's favorite mary sue bonus points if said mary sue is the most damaging for its
universe so i'm confused by this question to a degree say it one more time what's your what's
your guy's favorite mary sue bonus points if said mary sue is the most damaging for its universe
my favorite mary sue um
but like if it was most damaging for its universe wouldn't it not be our favorite
yeah like i don't know if i could that wouldn't i wouldn't like it then um what if they're two
separate questions well it says bonus points if said yeah the last one's more of a statement
all right well if we go with what's my favorite mary sue if saitama can qualify which he can't
necessarily qualify because he's not loved very significantly whatsoever um it's not satire though
it doesn't i don't think that counts what what do you mean just because it's comedic elements
doesn't mean it isn't a dramatic story yeah the whole story yeah so i don't really think
he's much of a mary sue because most of his issues he can't solve with his soon and he
did train for it but he can yeah and he does in fact all the problems he comes up with
against in the season he solves with his being strong well but all right so like what i mean is
like he wants to go and go to a sale at a marketplace and then he misses sure this is why
it's complicated and we'd have to be very because this is the thing right some people say that ray
doesn't qualify because she doesn't qualify with every single portion of um mary sue's
a mary sue's like category and i find that to be just like unnecessary and like come on we know
that she qualifies for a lot of them yeah let me put it this way if if if he qualifies then he wins
so easily because i like him so much well yeah he's he's fantastic but part of the reason why
he's so good is why he also doesn't really qualify for mary sue as in he's dealing with a lot of
issues that have nothing that can't be solved with being really strong um while ray i mean
there's nothing she comes up against that she can't solve and any floor she has is always
in reference to how amazing she is as a person i like harry potter that's my favorite mary sue
if that one counts i'd probably go with that i guess yeah
because he he has all these blessings and stuff but his character is kind of not really about that
on an internal level and i think that's an interesting dynamic to have he's not very
loved like he's loved by a couple people but a lot of people
fucking hate harry potter that's the thing about well that qualification is it's tough well he
starts he starts out as like you're the chosen one the you're the the boy who lived and that
kind of thing and then the media gets a hold of him and slanders him a lot and then people start
to hate him um and then i think the the thing that i like most about him is that his personal
issues aren't really the issues that he goes through on the epic scale he's got and scytum
is kind of similar to this scytum sorry he uh they they both have personal desires and needs
that aren't really part of the overall plot they're kind of tangential so like a lot of what
harry goes through is relationship issues and friendship issues that are teenage drama
like for the book like someone in chat scytum is not a mary sue he can't solve his issues with
his powers like oh what i said weird for weird but followed up with saying how categorization
is a problem with mary sue because it depends on what specifically you're talking about whether
someone counts like i really it bothers me how much we've been through this topic over and over
again and yet people in chat are like definitively immediately like yeah this person is or isn't a
very serious like which parts of it are you considering you part what about the author insert
part a lot of people try to ignore that one and a lot of people argue that it's evolved past that
now that we can't even consider that one because it's just like the word itself is more declarative
of their immense power which isn't actually necessarily what it is it's more so that they
they have power to the point where no problem in their way can be solved or can't be solved
that both the good guys and bad guys will just inexplicably love this person
they will be extremely skilled in in direct reference to whatever problem they have to solve
even if it's completely illogical and then the author insert part would probably be pretty
important i think gary stew is another selection of uh it's not necessarily an inverse it's not
necessarily mary sue but guy right there's like other um elements to it so it makes it complicated
well so what what's a good example of a mary sue then well i would say i think ray should be the
quintessential example i think it's uh amazing that they wrote here that way i i agree and it's
so obvious and all that but can you give me like just a secondary one to point me in the right
direction because some people in chat are saying harry isn't and i'm like okay well if he if the
chosen one isn't enough uh that has all these special powers that you know can stop him from
death and like all these special magical rules because i've debated a bunch of people about how
harry potter's magical system is wish fulfillment it's not really sensical then uh because we don't
consider frodo or mary sue because he's the everything is put upon him and he doesn't really
want to do it but he does it out of courage and he struggles every step away yeah i would want to
argue like surely sam is the one that pushes him to the end without sam frodo we've lost right
exactly so it's not just the chosen one aspect and you have characters like eng who are really
good who grow even though they have a lot of power but um unlike the other end of the scale
because usually mary sue's i consider to be just bad writing i can't think of many that would fit
every standard set i don't think that's the point really yeah i agree with you meet enough of them
then you start to hit that territory um so i i don't know i know there would be kora i think
that's probably pretty fair but all these characters are so unlikable well yeah they're
unlikable for us but in the universe they're usually pretty well liked right right right and
that's understandable but it's like the the question is what's your favorite i'm like oh
jeez yeah yeah goku no well this is the thing if if whatever we suggest doesn't quite qualify this
question is gonna lead us down a rabbit hole forever but um most damaging for its universe
as well does that mean in terms of breaking rules or does that mean like literal power factor
i think that would be the case because if you have a bad power crawl you kind of rule and ruin the
rule set usually uh you can go excessive with it like dragon ball z is kind of dragon ball
continuation but the power levels are so much higher but then once you reach too high a power
level then the impact is minimized james bond correct having plot armor doesn't make you a mary
sue depends on which movies bond but it also depends on like because someone just said you
guys don't get mary sues it's like i don't think you realize that nobody uh in large groups
completely agrees on what exactly a mary sue is yeah exactly that's the current issue and
i kind of would be interested in throwing it out at this point and instead because the whole point
of mary sue is to be a shorthand for a set of attributes but since nobody ever seems to agree
definitively on what the attributes have to be at this point it's like why don't you just tell me
what the attributes are and you know what i mean like so if i go this character sucks because
they're a mary sue instead i just go this character sucks because for some reason
every in the world loves them i don't know why that is they're so powerful that there's like
no challenge they can't overcome and they always seem to have a skill set that allows them to pass
every single challenge too um they are they're engaging in activities in the storyline that come
across as if they're like a fan like like someone's writing it and have inserted themselves into doing
all the things they would want to do which is like riding the millennium falcon having luke's
lightsaber uh fucking able to speak droid and wookie all of these things that are just like
it doesn't really make sense for her to have that but it does make sense if you look at it from the
point of view that this is someone who's like i love star wars i am now in the universe look
at what i can do and so if someone's like oh you're just describing a mary sue i'd be like
i don't care like at this point you just these these are these are these are problems on their
own whether or not it's a mary sue i think that uh a lot of the time if you look at a mary sue
or what like the person that is being called a mary sue it's usually because they have all of
the components that are needed for an entire cast to be interesting so they're the lover
and they're the technical guy and they you know ray does everything she doesn't need anybody
but a well-balanced story you'd think would have characters at disadvantages where they're required
to team up with somebody else or required to deal with somebody else that may be in a negative uh
light um you know who does a good job with this is joss wheaton by like putting people in situations
where they have to deal with others that they may not want to deal with and they have to hash it out
because if a mary sue can just go in there and accomplish the task it's almost like
they're a video game character and they're playing on easy mode and they don't understand why you on
hard mode with all of the actual difficulty challenges set by the developers are having
such a hard time it's like they the character can't really interact with the story in a meaningful way
because it doesn't challenge them that would be how i would look at what a mary sue is like
well you got um someone said i can define it for you with references and i was just thinking like
we did that already right and then you got someone else saying like uh yes everybody can disagree on
it but some people are just wrong and it's like sure but again this is something that people keep
debating and then southpaw's linked the tv tropes page and it's like again again the tv tropes it's
evolving as a term uh naturally there's a lot of terms are used and we can all agree that ray is
the thing that pulled this term out into the mainstream like before ray uh people were talking
about mary sue's a lot less um and so you see how being like stitched today is kind of what i was
trying to get out there and a lot of people use mary sue to mean yeah a character that has raised
like sort of attributes yeah absolutely she's the penultimate like the apex massive of the whole
thing um and the best example like you're saying but it's she's such a good example that she eclipses
the entire trope for me you might as well just call it a ray yeah um but i get that there are
other elements than people like so when you try and extrapolate to a different character they're
like no no no it doesn't follow these traits and you're like oh well ray doesn't necessarily follow
them it's like doesn't matter that's what all right so so so right here you have different
traits that are explained in this trope page i'm not going to go into the details of them but
there's like folders and it's it's divided into personality skills physical appearance accessories
relationships etc and just to briefly sum that up a mary sue has all of the good parts of those
and none of the bad parts of those in my book like what kind of issue would a mary sue have
it's not like a player protagonist where uh like on the mary sue scale let's say it's like oblivion
where you can join the fighters guild and the mages guild and there's no restrictions and you
can role play as whatever character you want make your own spells that kind of thing and then
there's the other side of it which would be in a role playing game where you are fixed into the
position that you've chosen for yourself you choose for yourself so i am a mage therefore
i am definitely going to be physically weaker there's no way around this kind of situation
mary sues don't have to deal with any kind of thought process that has to do with that because
they have all of the aspects of the plot already lined up for them to tackle and we find it really
lazy because as a logic problem if you introduce elements that would stop a character from being
able to do something and you actually have to stop and think about it the audience is going along
with your logic when you actually put it to the print so to me it's like mary sue ultimately can
be boiled down to writer laziness and giving them no obstacles or character flaws that they
have to overcome because i can't think of anything that ray had to really overcome except for plot
elements that are needed for the audience to understand where we are in the story on like a
meta level like here's the ending here's the beginning here's the in in story it's hard to
justify who she is and people bring up stuff like oh she can swim and and she's a desert
person or how does she know how to read or speak wookie and all this stuff we were talking about
that um before the talk about a good part of tlj the whole like oh she's she's shocked and
interested about rain and she has a moment and it's so cool to see someone who's not seen rain
before react to rain like also she can swim you're like hang on you look she practiced swimming in
the sand okay and she can pilot that boat thing because she slid down on a because she fought with
a stick yeah and then i saw like someone was posting how her lightsaber if you look close
it has like she can choose what color blade she wants i don't know if that's canon but it looks
like there is actually a button that can choose if it's green blue or yellow i don't know if that
got cut but just like the i feel like uh i see it a lot because if we if we zoom back a little bit
from mary soon we just go into bad character writing i think a lot of stuff that's written
into pre-existing content people go with their first ideas so like i hate this star wars rebels
creation where there's a character that has a lightsaber that has a black core and it's called
a dark saber and it's like a super ancient lightsaber and to me i'm just thinking like
that sounds like something that somebody in 12 levels like 12 years old on the playground would
come up with like it doesn't have thought about how it's going to change the greater scheme of
things like why didn't we see any of this before it's people are inheriting large intellectual
properties with long stories and not realizing that every element that they put into it affects
every other element into it and it's really disappointing to see that there's no quality
control based on that and mary sues are just like when you ask the question like oh what's
going to be the the the most destructive mary sue it's going to be every single one especially ray
because it just everything that she does changes something yeah yeah i i guess so i probably most
damaging for its universe probably would go to ray would definitely be in the running obviously
it's just the it's difficult the whole reason why this has been long is like we're trying to figure
out which ones even qualify and then how to assert what the damage they did to each universe
they're in was um so i think i'm going to go with a safe ray answer in order to progress yeah
and also mary sue usually refers to a protagonist but we could say that the
the predator the super predator from the predator is mary sue
it kind of just has dominance over everything right uh being really powerful is like the most
limited viewpoint of what a mary sue is uh that seems to be the most like if you do ask a lot of
people across the internet what it means they might throw that in and it's like it's not it's
a little bit more specific than that and there's loads of other traits so like we i get that it's
just that um it's something something's usually a part of a collective and it's usually contextualized
in a slightly different way but yeah hopefully that's uh an effective answer um oh boy here we
go i cannot wait for all of twitter to explode over arch and saga i'm joining the toxic brood
make sure to check r slash sig marxism later to see them screeching live also hydrag hello uh
please watch super space layer robot chicken oh they did something about that i will uh i will
look into such a thing at some point hi rogs moobschler hi hello uh get chase
i don't like minorities face and pastor louie six out of fifty levi um all of a levo i've never
known which one is correct i hear all different ones all the time uh onto efap police shootings
it'll be a wild ride i promise oh my god i'm gonna get banned i'm sure of it um i started
watching youtube for arch arch led me to sargon dnd crusaders led me to rags rags led me to efap
and mauler efap led me to j the apex train wreck of a youtuber thanks to you all i'm so glad that
it ended with j you went from knowing how great youtube can be and then you found out what else
it can be it's a it's a good journey yeah apparently those star destroyers are the opposite
of a suction cup man suction cup man suction cup man um suction cup man it's a uh
uh
i get a guy climbing a tower with suction cups that suction suction cup man is like this thing
i mean i didn't want to laugh at him but yeah uh it doesn't seem that impressive i don't know
all right but good for good good for good for suction cup man i suppose
um i hope he suctioned by day he's a plumber and by night he goes around jumping off rooftops
if you if you want more spacey content look up the channel isaac arthur
there you go uh did you hear about sjw is complaining about the sonic movie they are
complaining that there are homophobic slurs throughout the film i can't wait to see it
oh boy i can't wait to not find any i was gonna say i'm pretty sure it's so i saw uh was it ls
marc's tweet about it i think um it's confusing you look at it and it's like a bunch of bots i
think who are all posting that all of them say the sonic movie is awful homophobic whatever else
and i we should all go see bids of prey like that's what they all say and it's like uh okay
really weird i don't know who's responsible for those but it's kind of a music
um but i seriously doubt sonic will be anything but a family friendly romp
i still can't get over how episode nine managed to one up 40k in obsidity with the zyston's zystones
that i don't know what that is the zystones yeah i think that's how it's spelled zyston's or zystones
i don't know what those are not even the imperium have guns that can one-shot planets
well then they need to get on palps level don't they
oh just oh yeah i guess so because all of his ships and his fleet could do that
um
crabs are sea spiders it's just socially acceptable to eat them after you kill them
join the mobile infantry today oh
jj star wars is like eight-year-old me playing with my star wars action figures but worse
i was way more imaginative yeah because that's the thing if you want to compare it to a child's
approach with uh how he did it in that movie it's like yeah it's not even a very interesting child
it's just like there's lots of them like okay come on timmy work with it what else you got
although committed a genocide and they were like queen slay i mean if if that was established as
an option couldn't she just automated it i don't know nah but yeah i mean didn't loot commit a
genocide as well well i mean i guess if they were all combatants on a space station that
was going to blow up things then yeah that's where we're at um but holdo managed to do it
in such a way that seemed impossible so good for him holdo light speeded through the daycare on
the supremacy oh yeah but you surely with 2.2 million people there would be some yep
right i mean i would have to assume yeah they have to have this full society on there
and we're talking a significant one what did you say was 2.8 million
a lot yes a lot of people i'm just gonna put like that's my opinion you know you can you
can challenge it if you want to but that's what i think
um this episode of efap rules been watching you for seven years sargon so happy we're winning
this fight also high rags hey an efap on my birthday thank you everyone oh it says everyone
won but i'm gonna let that go because it's your birthday so happy birthday uh why didn't the
emperor just force choke ray because she would have deflected it with force lightning saber
that's how that works you imagine that you go to force choke somebody they hold up a lightsaber
and it goes back into your own throat and you're like don't do that god damn it
that one's done uh you had to do this in the middle of a work day this was all we could get
for this week i'm afraid so um you know we usually try and gun for a saturday if it's not on a
saturday then that means there was some selfish guest forcing me and rags to do other things
and that's disgusting i agree um hi rags hey would your clone have the same birthday as you
or would it be the day he was created day he was created what present would you get him
man i don't know i'd just i don't know if if um well i'd probably ask him if he wanted anything
um i think i might just take him somewhere nice make a day of it something kind of romantic i
suppose um just the two of us uh go out have a good time uh catch it oh i take him to the zoo
i take i take him to the zoo trying to say he's an animal man zoos are great
what if he would want to organize the thing or if he was like oh whatever he wanted
whatever he wanted very good i would yeah i'd be like yeah sure whatever you want to do
i'm not a picky guy
and uh happy birthday doggo
happy birthday to you all hear about the drama going on on chatterbait a bunch of thoughts are
angry at a girl who uses a 3d model to earn more money than them thoughts yeah i've heard about
that uh e-bouts are mad it's pretty funny uh i find it hilarious but i guess is the question
to get to the more interesting part of it should it be allowed is that would that be the question
because uh i suppose it can be considered a different genre but
what i mean if there's a market for it right i don't know i feel like the same argument for
the reason why chatterbait should exist is the same argument this cartoon should exist or whatever
it doesn't seem unreasonable to me i think it's just up to chatterbait if they want to allow it
or not and i think they're going to allow it if it's making the money so you know it doesn't break
rules uh hello wags hello and massive hello your bit with sheave leaving to change his rose before
they woke up was proper brilliant take my money for best sheave acting best sheave acting this
just says boomer i'll assume that was uh for glib yep yes i'm indeed a boomer glib glib i'm
sipping my monster ultra it's a little moist thank you rags for convincing me to get a pc
sargon for this week in stupid no that's fair enough mauler for the awesome movie critiques
why thank you and arch for the warhammer lore very kind i have a question for oh it's six hours
later and they're gone uh hi rags hey well delivered it was five hours later so that's
a falsehood and i call i call tisms that's that's what i call upon that boomer alert again seek
live this is so cruel that before you even arrive they're crawling your boomer zoomers mad mm-hmm
uh starship troopers more like watch hardcore henry you dumbos damn well they really want us
to say that yes movie gives me a headache after a while
uh arch rags and sargon does this mean the stream is sponsored by the world of darkness
by world of darkness probably oh this stream is absolutely sponsored by world of darkness i'd
like to thank world of dark darkness for sponsoring this podcast it's very politically correct and
safe and we don't make any enemies we're very understanding everybody loves us this is a stream
that world of darkness could get behind you go on any website on the internet any conversation
about efap is positive basically all of them it's true and what's great is that not only are they
all positive but they know exactly what we say yeah they all the time they never get any of our
positions wrong do you remember when when jane nicolson promoted it on twitter she was like guys
check out this awesome podcast she understood everything that we were saying she definitely
took the time to learn our arguments very impressive very impressive i know there's a
reason there must be a reason people really would go and simp for uh also rags when is the canadian
lolly having your litter i don't know what you mean i don't know canadian lolly the canadian lolly
oh you're talking about uh dev's character oh it's canonically it wasn't me it was uh
it was someone she met at a library i believe but i don't know that's kind of up to arch
i think you should work movie bob into the story i don't know it's important to do that
uh
nimitz class carriers have a crew of 5 000 a star destroyer has 125 times the volume scaling based
on volume you get a crew of 625 000 for an isd uh the supremacy likely would have had tens of
millions yeah i actually thought that 2.8 million is probably small considering the size difference
between it and a star destroyer but i mean if that's if that's what they're saying it is then
wow the name of the elephant protagonist of his self-titled disney movie no longer gets past
susan not even with a capital d these days i don't understand how you wouldn't be able to write
dumbo like that people have sent in harsher things than dumbo i color me surprised with a
with a big old felt pen dumbo is also the name of a place in brooklyn like it's a nickname so that's
kind of weird um needs to do good on exam later efap let me stop you right there hi wag hi hello
filthy nazi longoid hello kick j up his brown table until he tastes boot oh my god that boot's
gonna go really high up that throat does boot um not sure what that emote is i think it's ewoks
are only five percent of the ecosystem yet are responsible for 85 of poo flinging oh it's apes
maybe or monkeys either way oh yeah terrifying terrifying and terrible come on you jebbs you
want to clap forever star destroyers can't look up big owl says so that is a shorn of the dead
reference right there um hashtag primary suck oh yeah i uh i wonder if there's any result for that
yet new empty primaries right sanders is polling high apparently 12 reporting bernie is currently
in the lead with pete booty judge as as i've been told right behind him well kind of behind him
and abe clobuchar behind that lisbeth warren's being beaten by amy right now
damn oh my god biden's in fifth place dang well we'll see that's the cherry biden being
in last is the funniest part of it for me some marines can't look up tim and they just can't
move their heads they can what do you mean they can look left and right and kind of up and down
i've seen it say that uh monkey mode this is censored on super chats why youtube i mean i
can see it assuming that's what you're trying to send uh i can't tolerate this xenophobia
i know it's just awful sargon should check out ender's game i can keep that for him
uh see what he says hello all my x words hello there hello hi there a little trivia for you
the supremacy which is about 13 kilometers long has a crew of about three million while the 40k
overlord class battle cruiser which is about 5.3 kilometers long has a crew of 100 000 who do you
think thought about their creation more um
i don't know how much of a crew you would need for a ship of that size i guess but i'm assuming
40k thought more about this that's just i'm going to assume based on
uh a quick assumption now would you rather shave off holdo's hair or kiss every line on the face
of chair share what oh share i guess yeah c-h-e-r sorry um i thought that was share well i thought
they might have misspelled that they were gonna why the fuck would that's not even a choice why
wouldn't i just shave holdo's hair i thought they were gonna say yeah holdo again or like like we'd
have to or something like about at the same level of as shaving yeah i just i guess i didn't expect
it to be shit i guess just like okay so yeah so it's either shave holdo or kiss or every line on
the face of shit i want to go with shave holdo i guess yeah i guess because every line would be
like her nose and stuff too and that'd be weird and i guess her let me look at what share looks
like these days you'd be there for hours
she doesn't even look like a real person
wait when they say every line on her face is the joke that she has no lines on her face because
she kind of looks like a couple maybe i need like a modern photo or something
uh let's see i don't know some of these make her look
kiss every line on the face of share i don't well part of it is getting my mouth involved
like when it's like my hands at a distance like okay but i'm not gonna put my mouth under the
people's faces if it's not like you know something nice done for clarification it was just shaving
holdo's hair it was nothing nothing else don't worry yeah it wasn't like i don't have to like
smooch it or kiss it or something yeah that's pretty easy this one says gas the bugs um the
only good bug is a dead bug just saying
according to weaver larson and godot re the oscars casey anthony squeaky from and blanche
taylor moore are superheroes okay i don't know all of those names i'm afraid
a bug's life a xenomorph autobiography i would read it i think we need to get their perspective
on some stuff just saying hi rags hi i'm mauler archen sargon awesome sargon your defense's
star ship troopers is phenomenal going to enjoy this well there you are we've got a whole episode
about it hey i hope you liked it i'm from the country you are gay sound familiar
i don't think there's a country literally spelled you are gay but Uruguay is close Uruguay Uruguay
that's not spelled you are gay because it's europe what if they've been spelling it wrong
this whole time so if there were a place spelled y-o-u-a-r-e-g-a-y i would want to live there just
saying sargon please don't kill the stream this time he didn't manage it he tried i'm sure of it
but uh the the efap lines held up the faps were too strong to be defeated so we did it
i used to actually watch these generation films guys about a year or two ago i do find
their videos entertaining but they're kind of morons i hate this american ben guy i want to punch
him um yeah i i feel like they could have done a better job without having looked into anything
like some of the stuff they said just seemed strange um but they had fun making that video
i'm sure of it rags i live in sight of mount rainier there are volcano evac signs and school
kids do evacuation drills really where uh live in sight of mount rainier i don't know
oh yeah i guess right mount rainier that's um that's where mount st helens is right
i don't know no no no no no that's the um that's in seattle isn't it that's outside of
it's uh it's by seattle again i don't know but i think so oh i thought it was i was forget
fuck that um yeah i think that's up in um up in seah up by seattle in washington or something
i don't know let me take a look um boop doo uh large active stratovolcano in cascadia
which is 59 miles south southeast of seattle in mount rainier national park
it is considered one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world oh my goodness
so uh it's a mean mean one is what you're saying it's a badman don't fuck us up
what that one is it gonna fuck us up is what one the rainier yeah
um like you can see it's the future right
not my own yeah but the future of a volcano you can see into i remember that being one of your
powers i have to meet him oh i have to shake his hand fair enough yeah i i guess i thought you were
more powerful than i realized my bad
wasn't the red baron originally a cavalry officer or something and yet became one of the most
renowned pilots in history
possibly those at the beginning of those at the beginning of the air force existing at all i mean
where would you get people that were pilots before that uh obviously they all knew each other
because there were so few they all just knew each other they went to the same school they're like hey
robert a heinlein is a great man and starship troopers made me appreciate citizenship and
military service glad it did i don't think there are absolutely i don't think there are
contemporary sources stating spartans trained for war before the age of 17 also yet another
time you talked down the byzantines byzantines uh i don't particularly remember talking down
the byzantine i don't remember it popping up but i might have missed it people always downplay them
because they're not as cool as the roman empire what can you do they're cool though
his teams are cool they did a good job could they breathe fire you know hmm i'm not sure
they might have modern modern day speculation assumes that they did uh kelly mary tran had
more oscar screen time than in tros that doesn't surprise me say that one more time uh kelly mary
tran was in more of like she had more oscar screen time than she had tros screen time
right because she's a terrible character in the movie and i hate her and i don't want anything
to do with rose tico and star wars ever again yeah right what if they offered you 10 million
to write a trilogy all about it would you do it say that one more time okay what if they offered
you 10 million dollars to write a trilogy all about it yeah of course i would absolutely
what would your plan be to fix it oh going off the top of my head um her exploits as general
in between how she goes on an arc of changing between the last jedi and uh the rise of skywalker
wait you make the trilogy you set the trilogy between those two films
sure all right you're gonna have to you're gonna ignore like all the other characters
or you're gonna bring them in as well what no this is just about her
it's gonna be her the fuck is that gonna work it's gonna be no it's gonna be her and some rebels
going on some missions and adventures and she has to experience sacrifice and loss and all
that sort of stuff which changes her perspective and uh teaches her some lessons about command
and the value of life and the stupid advice she gave to other people at one time
i probably just set it after episode nine and have it go through some horrible things
the trilogy ends with her dying easy oh oh well i would okay there's also that there's a backup
option sort of chats that blow off her legs well plenty of options uh in the book they hang a
sociopath recruit for killing a young girl the whole camp mourns and bears the shame of that murder
uh no sociopath for life sociopaths are great especially when they're all condensed together
as a unit with weapons that's where don't isn't that where you keep all your sociopaths
oh yeah there are so many countries that still use penal legions that's that's a thing from l.a
except a military force uh have you seen some suicide squad
uh have you seen the small star wars animation palpatine's journey by worth the kids on youtube
it explains exactly how he survived it should be canon since trust didn't bother also high cigar
oh oh let um also yes i i have seen it it's hilarious and everyone should watch it
i have seen it uh sargon that nazi was allowed on this family friendly alt right communist
podcast what in the what is this world coming to no i'm so sorry he's no not to be that guy but
if you're going to talk military theory you should probably bring in an actual military theorist such
as klaus wits or sunsu um i don't know either of those guys i don't think sunsu is gonna want to
come on efap like what do you guys reckon you talked him a lot don't you rex who i knew you
were listening that's why it's perfect i would have let this satisfy uh no i want to i i because
we're talking about the i don't like the name specifically you weren't you were sure of it
no really yeah i'm not because we're talking about military you should actually have a military
stuff on like and you mentioned someone else that was in the thing and it it's like a weird name
yeah yeah uh i don't know if you know him um like if you've got his email address whatever
do you know sunsu is that familiar at all the guy who wrote the art of war
no i don't know him damn it i know of him i don't think we're gonna be able to get him on to efap
then sorry i've read his book it's really nice i i enjoy it but uh but yeah uh i i uh as for
referencing or bringing on minds that are more familiar with it we do our best on efap you know
but obviously this was entered into a critique of of a film so uh sometimes we explore subjects
we're not entirely familiar with but we bring on some people who have a bit more experience
but um tell us uh tell us where we uh weren't correct i suppose oh well i don't know if that's
it's probably a commentary on how we could have had uh even more depth as to general yeah i think
but uh we can only do so well you know yeah good stream chaps interesting fact i took the
military outfits from soldia and made new helmets and used them in firefly hey rags oh hello that's
sid nicolson took the military outfits from soldier made new helmets and used them in firefly
you worked on firefly i also he worked on metallocalypse as well sid you do stuff oh
teddy yeah but there's totally sprutals that's a cool career
fucking uh that's really impressive that's really interesting i do cocaine
fucking show it's uh it's a weird one i'm sad they didn't get to have an ed dig for that show
yeah apparently they got screwed out of it too like the community is pissed off to this day about
it yeah i don't swim kind of like control them about it they're like lol you didn't like we're
not bringing it back and i don't know why that happened i guess i don't know more specifics on
it maybe the some of the community were being dicks about it but i mean who doesn't like an ending you
know yeah i like endings oh no we just only like the middle oh yes of course yeah only the middle
all the fans are dissatisfied because they had middle the fools i would say they handle it
surprisingly well considering they're fighting giant bugs i'm assuming that might be referring to
the clindathua attack i don't really know oh well oh well uh danger is real fear wait
danger is real fear is a choice cipher rajans oh yeah yeah that's the that's the fucking tag line
for um after earth is fear is a choice yeah and that's just like biologically not true just
what do they even mean at that point like uh you're afraid until you choose not to be at that point
it's just like oh well imagine telling kids that whenever they're afraid it's something that they're
choosing to do right and they think oh no i just am gonna they're gonna try to not be afraid but
they can't because that's just not how it works it's a natural biological response to things that
are happening to you and like uh you can't you can't stop being afraid but you can learn courage
i guess you know finally started watching buffy thanks to your recommendation excellent
finally some good rat also high wax hello uh you know i'm something of a lighthouse keeper myself
i get it uh keep that one for song on can't decide if i'm tired or not so my husband told
me that if i was a movie efap would slaughter me from inconsistencies never have i been so offended
by something i 100 agree with love all you guys oh yeah it would clearly be a plot hole if you
were simultaneously tired and didn't want to sleep we would we would absolutely rate you a
zero out of 10 as a as a story but i hope you managed to get to sleep if you were tired sleepy
sleep time um i'll keep that facade on the mi suck because they aren't acting like bugs
oh a bug sociopathic i don't know i don't want to judge too much i haven't read their books yet
their body their choice molly you murdered art go human intercourse yourself oh no maybe i will
um this just says in quotes from rags yes they came well yeah they came
yeah i i remember i think i said that and i don't think anyone reacted to it in any way so i just
let it go but hey someone up there oh yeah yeah let it go
you love frozen right me yeah it's like one of your favorite movies of all time i think
i haven't seen frozen oh no must be mistaken oh well uh this dude is clearly the apex pro on
intercourse oh yeah oh yeah this guy knows what's up chicks love that unkempt face that's dirty
and an unwashed overly tight shirt with an excessively large v-neck people chicks love
love it this says sargon or other baby girl needs love and attention
does that mean anything well i guess you're the other
well couldn't that mean you couldn't i mean glib it's probably glib well you already said it
oh well it just said sargon or other like as if it was directed to them
well i read it out so i was really directing it to one of you guys you know that's how it works
i'm not lost as am i nothing like a reeling belly laugh from the sargon man
not even my voiced churchill body pillow blesses me so love you all and hi ragas good boy amus
hi to be fair to the guy in the video if he is comparing all space marines at the same time
all flaws are legitimately compared to adeptus astartes but they are fearless one-ton genetically
modified zealots hence why i think if you're going to be like fucking he doesn't even do that
though in a lot of those segments he just says so instead of saying rico is is like um not efficient
as a commander compared to the exploits of this person from this fiction he'll just be like he's
a fucking idiot he's a dipshit like at one point you just say he's not as smart as uh jod spart but
i don't think that's fair like you have to do more than that i would suppose to try and uh
create a better dynamic but separately if we even agreed and said that that was the point
of the comparison he's not a dipshit for the medic thing okay he's actually pretty clever in
the movie relative to the limits of his position in time and space like there's no what exactly
was he supposed to be i guess is the uh the complaint because i think it would make for a
kind of boring video if you literally were just like compare them all and who the best is i imagine
there's a definitive answer already as a lot of people are saying is 40k would win
so i uh i would want to compare the mobile infantry to something a little lower down the
scale in sci-fi or um fiction in general than bartons or the space marines
and also um i don't really recall him ever saying we're comparing these space marine guys to
the star days i well again that's what the series was called he had a reference here and there two
other ones oh sorry i said john spartan this demolition meant what's uh what's the name of
master chief john something right john this is john 117 john
is that it because i don't actually know yeah yeah john i don't think he has a real name
john is his real name no no i mean his surname he doesn't have a surname
he's i don't know what it is john and then his tag or whatever is oh okay sierra 117
yeah i definitely mixed those up uh guys they shower together proof of the sloppy marines
man is ridiculous these points are utterly insane i bet he's never had human intercourse
uh pooping with your door open is great rags ever notice it's the same person saying this
stuff to you efap after efap you know i guessed it's not going to be a lot of people saying that
to you is it yeah you'd think that it's a it's a fairly niche kind of that's how we're going to
win not human core not human intercourse with those who we love fighting the bugs we hate
he rose would be great in uh in the star ship troopers universe
clearly his name is john halo would the mobile infantry stand up to 40k ig in fig
i don't know i don't know what any of that is unfortunately
i don't know is there like dates no but i'm guessing i'm just gonna guess no
like that's a whole so i assume 40k universe is just uh
very difficult for something like the mobile infantry from the first star ship troopers movie
to stand up against the last question depends on the ig regiment oh there you go there was a
response in super chat which sequel character would you like to get sucked by the brain bug
say that one more time which sequel character would you like to see get sucked by the brain bug
um probably rose so it's starved to death
that's horrible rags she's there's some meat in there i'm sure of it that's really good i can't
top is the federation supposed to be alfred it seems to me that resources would be an issue
when considering outfitting their entire retinue against the bugs i would think so but uh maybe
they should have gone into it a little bit in the movie watch mojo top tens of better research than
this garbage bam this is a bit bizarre oh wait i read that one out a good example is in halo
whereby the third game humanity is starting to catch up with the covenant tech wise
uh oh do you mean like in terms of just progression of technology and um in a
fictional universe well during a war it's like yeah that's what they do in that uh
that new independence day movie they do that's true yeah yeah they uh they could do it
what i mean is that the book had them in really good armor so the sub part armor in the movie
stands out yeah i mean i don't know that it does it stand out to people who haven't read the book
probably not seems kind of normal it yeah it stood out to them stood out to the book readers
and the people the people who made that video apparently they they knew about the book as well
if you have to ship all that armor halfway across the galaxy
the weight of all that armor matters that's why u.s tanks were smaller than german ones
i mean i yeah i i buy that i agree that it would take uh you gotta be careful about where you're
moving all this shit it's just that i would maintain that it's what i said right defending
five guys really well or defending everybody relatively well plus when it comes to tanks like
you wouldn't you would put you'd bring them up to atmosphere one at a time or whatever because
of the ships are in space already i mean once the yeah i don't i don't know about that right
we need to know more about how the universe works before we can sort of conclude that like
a significant amount of tanks would be an impossibility or irrational of them to do
i don't know we don't we don't know enough about all the situation with them
it's clear their limbs can be replaced their heads are vital thus the thick helmets
yeah those helmets look like they're sturdy looks like they're quite some serious business
fantastic to see sargon on efap also high regs hi animus the past two hours you're gonna have to
back it up boys i think she said that she was not too interested in this uh topic which is fair
enough this is like saying the people in attack on titan should have come up with better ways to
fight titans i mean the assumption is that uh there was they had the capabilities based on
their other technology i think is what the argument was in the video
like why didn't they have other things when they have these things that sort of thing
uh h i m k ralo fans orphan hitler you can marry the orphan oh so marry kill what would h i stand for
h i oh let me uh i'll post it to you
you
you can marry the orphan but it can't be loved if you kill hitler you become hitler
do whatever to the degenerates you can marry the ralo fans orphan hitler
but there are four you got marry kill i and h
h what i know h stands for hitler right hitler i marry kill well who hitler is not a
you want to hitler somebody you're gonna hitler someone oh some people think
oh h i h i means human in oh right right oh i get it human intercourse so fuck mary kill human
intercourse mary kill i get it that's fantastic all right so the options
are probably too young for human intercourse ralo fans would probably well they're clearly
looking to fuck something so i think so i'm gonna go with human intercourse with ralo fans
um definitely going to kill the orphan and you know you had to you had no choice because it said
if you kill hitler you become him so you had to marry him you took one for the team you're
gonna try and lead him away from his more uh ghastly ways all right you're gonna be a loving wife
it'll be great long man your theme is the battle of lil slugger that's from um super meat boy i
think i think that's right i used it in the outro for my soma series if my memory is functional
this guy is expecting every soldier to be doom guy and if that was the point if he was supposed
to be like see how this guy's not as strong as someone like doom guy i should be like what
this just seems pointless doom guy's not as strong as someone who's twice as strong as doom guy so
there the u.s army lost the vietnam war because of overconfidence and despite having the better
tech the federation thinks bugs are dumb and low tech interesting perspective the pulse rival
from boiling it down i'm sure it is very simplified version we we got through it relatively
fast today you know it could have gone on for a hell of a lot longer discussing all of that
yeah for sure um the pulse rifle from aliens has a base weapon of a thompson machine gun
starship troopers are just space guns in a movie no there's there's um there's something inside
the marida shell that's the reason why i think it's a ruger 14 uh uh right mini 14 doesn't know
i'll look that up looks like it is inside of a
um
yeah ruger mini 14 with an underslung ethica 37
um
it's a bullpup uh mz14 muzzle light stock very well
the bugs are dangerous because they don't do the human intercourse
they do bug bug intercourse buggin
bandatheon intercourse i would assume by standard they mean nato standard well but they seem still
nondescript about there's more information about a bullet than this nato standard bullet
it's like you need more than that like i'm assuming rags you you're more interested in
what kind of gun and bullet it is right and like way more specifics yeah i mean it works
but you could do a whole lot but like individually like one gun on one bug and it seems in the movie
like sometimes it kills really quick sometimes it doesn't i guess if you hit the nerve stem or not
like they were talking about but you know i'd want these guys to have large caliber bullets
some tips that are really good for you know piercing through the bug
i don't know carapace or whatever it's got around it definitely could do better they work sure but
you could definitely do better lots and lots of room for improvement uh why was my third super
chat last stream skipped they i basically don't skip any so if it were it was an accident and
if it it might have been missed or uh i don't know i i i can try and have a look while
reading out some of these other ones i shall i shall find a way through um efap on a tuesday
and sargon it's my lucky day also hi wax oh hello uh oh my god are you defending the
first invasion oh wait i read that one out stuff in the uk and their rain we're dying from drought
here in northland new zealand well this is the thing people complain about it like uh people
call the weather miserable and especially people who are visiting are like wow it's such a soggy
here they're just there and i'm always just like oh i mean i'm not complaining i like this weather
it it works for me i know it doesn't work for everyone like you rags oh i have to have the sun
you know the sun's useless to do anything i don't need the sun to see where i'm going name one good
thing the sun ever did it makes the crops grow that's your opinion you can't prove that
it lights the day it warms up my tea when it sits outside in the jug of water
um so the third i just found this third one i think anyway one no one two
yeah it looks like it's the third one um and i i definitely read this one out because i remember
rags his answer but i'll read it out again if you want says so uh rags has art of himself on rule 34 now
i'm aware of it that was i'm pretty sure your answer last time so yeah i'm don't worry i'm
aware of it uh do do do happy early birthday rags i know it's tomorrow thank you you can see
this time and time again in the civil war with generals trying to take cities by force and then
having to settle into a siege you can have uh you have to engage the enemy at some point
an interesting comparison to add to the collective uh flisms of the argument of course
that fleet formation was bizarre even if the bugs were just bugs why were they all so close
together it's space that's the one bit that makes no sense even with your defense
um i don't think your problem was that they were going to accidentally crash into each other
they were completely blown away by the the the the artillery stuff right yeah so like a formation
is not something that's i imagine gonna fucking get them in super round of trouble when they're
dealing with a bunch of bugs uh they are relatively close to each other but they probably i don't know
i don't know it's that unreasonable when you find an enemy that shouldn't be able to even touch you
in space necessarily yeah i don't know i mean if you're not expecting kind of resistance i don't
think it's that unreasonable i'd have to look at the scene see how close they are again
just from the visual perspective you want to have as much action in the frame as possible so
if you know if you have two ships in a frame and the lens can only have a certain width to it
you kind of have to cheat it and put those ships together even if it doesn't make as much sense
when you're thinking about it after the fact um i don't know if that's the exact reason but
i'm sure if everything were more realistic could be a little bit less interesting to see what it
looks like uh because i mean we could probably go into a rabbit hole of tactics about well i was
gonna say like i can i could totally we could speculate a lot for why they would do it from an
entertainment standpoint but if we're solely talking about tactical uh the only defense i
would even think about is is that not something anyone would do in real life uh when they're not
assuming to deal with something that's going to be effective in any way in space i don't know maybe
maybe not i don't know i don't know i would i would have to have check out someone's testimony
on such a thing uh happy early birthday rags thank you very much thank you very much i hope
you have an awesome one for an awesome doggo also hi long man hello should go pretty good
favorite efap guests also mullah you open to paid voiceover work um
it's not like i'm not it's just that i don't know if i have time these days
and uh i don't know what i should even price it at anymore because i don't know it's just it's
complicated it's not something i've thought about and i don't um i don't know what do you think
rags would you do it someone has actually asked me that and so i need to find out generally what
the price is because i don't want to undersell myself you know but yeah uh i'm not against it
but i'm also not sure how i'll go about it uh yeah sorry that's a that's a poopy answer but
i really i'm not sure yet in my head i'm like maybe down the line once i've done more of the
things i want to do on youtube but it's like that's probably never gonna end because there's
always new stuff coming out i don't know um i'd like to think i would that's still useless answer
but that's the best i can do right now because i'm not sure anyway finally sog on an arch i'm
gonna love watching this later also hi wax hello um oh my god so this is this is somebody getting
upset with these sensors in super chat i'm so fucking sick to depth of this god damn gar bridge
garbage these super chat senses of fudging bobship well bobship fudging all of my angry
rads look like they were written by a cambodian exchange student this semester english susan
starts with sw rhymes with air to god after i'm done with you even raw will be screaming
at me to staple staple gun down also hi rags hello i can't say vietnamese but i can say gun
question i don't know you also can't talk about a hitler apparently that's an evil
oh man of long would you be gracious enough to impart onto me the knowledge of the buffy watch
order it does seem i have lost it to the passion passage of time so the one i use is on joss weeden
dot blog spot dot coms forward slash 2012 forward slash 04 forward slash buffy and angel episode
viewing order with a dash between each word ending with dot html you google for a buffy and angel
episode viewing order and look for anything that has that in the url you should be able to find it
very simple it tells you to watch seasons one two three and then it shows you how the
later seasons cross over with each other and the episodes that are red are the ones that have
the significant kind of crossover that you should really um uh make sure you don't screw up in terms
of order hopefully that helps just leave it to the death core uh how dare these space marines not be a
status ree i mean if that was the goal of the series like i said i just don't really see why
they even bothered i don't know uh molar have you seen sargon's vid on starship troopers if so what
do you think uh i liked it i enjoyed listening to the arguments for how uh the like the events of
the film and and the extra knowledge from the book how a lot of it can be interpreted and sort of
discussed and i like i said i think it would be really awesome to see uh two people who are like
super knowledgeable in depth about everything that was done in terms of making the film and
writing the stories and stuff to figure out was it x or was it y or which one is it closer to um
because it's uh it's i've always found it interesting uh also have you seen anything
by arch high rags hello i don't think i've watched anything from arch wall hammer yet
because i know fuck all about uh 40k i think i've seen a couple of his videos about topics
that i'm more familiar with like has he done any movie reviews i don't know if you guys know
i feel like i've seen something from him to do with media that i'm familiar with but i can't
remember what it was my big game of thrones might have been like captain marvel i'm not sure
um sargon sargon no this isn't the stream for this oh god this twitter sewage
that mauler is going to have to deal with later thanks sargon i'll be fine i survived jenny's
nights surely yeah we'll be fine this is nothing the knights of jen that's what i'm supposed to say
mauler why do you have that memorized this i've got a bookmark for it because i have to give it
out all the time uh rags would you rather have human intercourse or jewish intercourse what
uh oh my one's just more specific than the other that's what they mean
um giving children puberty blockers is morally wrong as children lack the capacity for informed
consent most gender dysphoric children grow up to be gay not trans as supported by peer reviewed
studies i have heard that i saw that on one of the studies i first saw by um aden paladin did
a video about that that uh will make you upset if uh if you watch it you'll be very upset at some
of the stuff in the goings-ons yeah it's a very on goings-ons going on going on going on i think
both work i can't remember which one's right anymore you destroyed my whole universe um but
yeah very you got to be very careful with what you allow to happen to children at a very young age
obviously it's very complicated and uh those brains man they're going all over the place
they have not settled um complex topic i've been trying to upload a video about the mandalorian
it keeps getting hit with copyright all clips are less than nine seconds and flipped i even
watermarked it what do i do so i used to tell people to keep under 10 seconds these days i found
myself you have to keep under six you have to keep under six seconds that's the most i've ever
been clipped before it's never been five so it's horrifying but that's all i can tell you
unfortunately um i think i had uh um i had a clip in my riser skywalker review from mandalorian
that was i think above six seconds or around six seconds it didn't get clipped so yeah sometimes
it's really luck related so the infinitisms videos uh part one got hit like a bazillion times that
finally went through three four and no three and four two three and four sorry uh all went pretty
fine like without a hitch like the first attempt from the episode they went through part two three
and four yeah part five is the one that it hasn't come out in a while because it's only yesterday
that it finally got um the the latest version got through copyright and editor was having
fucking shit tons of trouble with it and it's really annoying they seem to be selective the
bots on how exactly they'll care and this is especially true because fellowship of the ring
got rendered once and it worked return of the king got rendered about 20s plus times and it
finally went through two towers has been rendered and i shit you not like 150 times it feels
ridiculous and they just keep grabbing things that they shouldn't be grabbing and it finally
stopped about three weeks ago and it has been picked up again so we're assuming now that it's
gonna work but oh you never know with these things uh you guys gonna do the pros and flaws
of other factions too so i'm interested to see what he does with clones on that channel well
we can check it out uh offline see if it's worth covering but um i don't know it seems it unless
it's what is particularly bad it's what we just watched i i don't know if they're all that way i
hope not for his sake i guess always channel sake soldiers were better than tanks because
tanks could get overrun by numbers uh where with men that can group fire and move into terrain that
tanks can't go i mean at that point we're just describing the pros and cons of a soldier versus
a tank we know that tanks have loads of pros compared to a soldier yeah and it depends on
how you use them and they could outrun a bug as well and their deployment is key a lot of
stuff that goes into it especially if we use defensively joint warfare is required you can't
just have one or the other you need guys around the tank to protect it you need a tank for i mean
all these all these things have purposes right they're not just like we use tanks because we
don't have enough people it's like no no use tanks for like other things if anything you use
tanks because you don't have enough people yeah i mean you use a tank because it's a gun
that's humongous that powers itself and the bigger the gun that you have
the better off you are right fucking you want big gun over here i'm smart what is your military
experience glib i uh i completed i completed i completed my raid on uh anyxia 40 men pretty
impressive i too have been called uh gay by a 12 year old it's all part of the duty thank you for
your service you said duty mikael tukashovsky and germany lost because they didn't have oil
also socialism i would say that an excess of socialism and a lack of oil are not good
put together yeah that's just absolutely you know you know what's happening there so also
while you're at it try not to fight almost the whole world at once that's yeah fight like half
maybe even 60 but once you go over that 60 nah it's not happening it's just not work
play just republic is ruled by philosopher kings arguably the scientist government before
starship trooper's current government yeah that's a fair argument against what i was saying
but um i think that uh there's a very fine line between the two parties uh the scientists and the
the veterans and their role in who should be supported in society um it's kind of a
conservative versus liberal argument i think but uh i are on the side of the uh the veterans
so there you go service guarantees citizenship it's not the only way by the motto
um yeah i suppose it's not like the motto is saying it's the only way yeah i'd agree with that
sargoy if you come to the land down under don't do a show in melbourne it's our london and you'll
get shut down by the gays oh my god i i can just damn gaze save that for him if he wants to canceling
those pesky gays gosh darny gays money for four of my favorite guys also the other guy is cool too
oh there you go an interesting matter in the taren foundation in the book is that citizenship
isn't even restricted to humans oh my god but that's not racist just to say thank you all for
amazing content and you're making my day so much more fun while listening to you hey i'm glad oh
it's great hope you enjoyed and are enjoying i guess mola pronounced oh so i'm supposed to say
yoshi but everybody in britain says yoshi so i called him yoshi which one does fringy say
i feel like fringy would say yoshi well add him to the call why so we can find out how he says it
uh his discord says he's sleepy tisms all right yoshi that's probably how you accept that as an
excuse i guess i don't want to wake the poor man up do you all right you can give him a ping if you
want to no i don't want to be united on this i want to cause i don't want to cause any issues
um i mean i don't say yoshi you know that's that's that's something yoshi
oh yoshi yoshi mario's on yoshi what is that actually what he did he's on yoshi that's uh
cambridge sure ah cambridge yeah i know cambridge
mola said in the last defap he wanted a uh x oh right uh like a porn video with a good soundtrack
funny thing is i work as a video editor for xxx films uh check out the opening bumper to my family
pies it's pretty catchy my family pies what flavor are those well well pornhub uh let's see
so let me see this takes it this is uh takes me to pornhub my family pies dot com from new
beetles porn dot com it's the opening jingle i gotta find top rated videos i guess this is
uh my family pie the opening jingle yeah let me take a look
this one is step bro's christmas threesome and sister cream pie
just sounds like a bunch of tags to me hashtag you in a second i'm getting there
okay a lot of ads as you follow us damn
wow this is like uh
rags you really oh my goodness we couldn't hear anything you got to tell us
wow it's like an actual it's like an actual high production sitcom about
fucking your sisters and human intercourse well it doesn't like they show us it starts off
innocently enough but you know why you're here and you know all these people are going to be
fucking someone at some point but then they just cut to fucking but the music just keeps going on
like normal but uh it looks like oh if the music is on youtube here uh let me see if i can
get it on youtube uh my family pie intro song uh
you're the best big brother i could have ever asked for oh boy so yeah this is uh
yeah man this is a it's a song it's just a song about in any other context would be
totally heartwarming and supportive and all that stuff but when you know that they're
fucking then it just sort of changes things up you know i like it it's great they made
oh there's videos where they put it over like finius and ferb and all sorts of stuff
yeah so uh there we go uh she was a genius there's no way he could have known ray had
a second saber his plan would work perfectly if not for that that's why windu lost that's true
it's true he didn't see that other lightsaber when he pulled them across the room he just flew out
of it like yes he would have seen two lightsabers activated but he didn't remember it and that's
why he's he's not at fault also hai booma saw gone oh wait go ahead i was just saying uh i thought
you were talking about the last jedi for a second there wasn't that exactly the same thing that
happens wasn't expecting the second lightsaber um yeah i guess now it's back to palpatine age
latin babe has hardcore sex and gobbles cock
uh also hai booma saw gone and hai rags you degenerate doggo oh that's that's not true
after what we just went through that past five minutes no that's not true at all jesus christ
look at her civic libertarianism is not fascism human intercourse is long speech for sex
long speech long speech do you speak the long speech uh got a sargon questione
who else is rico gonna call for horrid uh oh my god that was the joke i made as well i didn't
actually see that i thought was before or after i said it someone said send me link to it uh yeah
let me uh still got it i didn't mean to steal your joke if i did i'm so sorry so it's like i'm
vibing to them fucking like yeah boy except it's cheesy sitcom music is what it is but it's like i
yeah i check come the armor and starship troopers are in pr lost galaxy
oh okay yeah it sounds like they were reused for different movies i guess assuming that is a
different movie uh molar have you played eternal darkness if so what would you have wanted to see
from a sequel or how could the insanity mechanic have been improved i wasn't a huge fan of the
insanity mechanic in that game because it felt like a regenerating health bar
as opposed to as in you lose you start losing health once the sanity bar is depleted
so think of it as like the energy shield in halo essentially but sanity um and it was controlled
just by i think avoiding monsters i remember i wasn't a huge fan of that game i really like
the opening hour or so because i streamed it on halloween which wait which game eternal darkness
how about played it um i think i played it in like i want to say halloween of 2016 or 17
uh feels like a lifetime ago but i really wanted to love it and then i was disappointed with how a
couple of mechanics work and i got really burnt out on the story like it took way too long for me to
think it was actually going somewhere interesting um because it's rated really highly oh yeah it's
one of the gamecube favorites in fact i'm probably gonna get into a bit of trouble for
saying i didn't like it but it's okay um though i did just shit on the mechanic quite a bit
i don't know sanities requiem because people were like how can we didn't reference it in the
soma amnesia videos and i was like oh yeah because i hadn't played at that point because they have a
sanity mechanic but i think that to call it a sanity mechanic compared to the one in amnesia
the doctor sent is a little unfair because like i said it's like an energy shield in halo that's
kind of how it worked and uh i just didn't find it that interesting it was if anything was just kind
of um boring and the creep factor in that game just got less and less as i progressed because i
found the the mechanics to be pretty clunky and annoying but uh i wouldn't take my perspective
too seriously i only played just about more than half of the game um and that was one i
owned like three years ago so uh i'd have to replay it to to be able to answer that question
more thoroughly as for a sequel take all the stuff i liked and do more of that without being
more specific because i really can't remember a lot of it unfortunately it was a lot better than
madam adon i'll get i'll give it that there you go oh my god that's an achievement shoots friend
in head bilbo i mean that's something he could have said clearly this guy wants mario to be in
this movie yahoo yepy wait why what's that referencing
mario's death sounds pretty funny
hello rags hello human intercourse oh
