What were you talking about, Eureka?
This better be what you're referencing.
Hang on.
Well, because I'm thinking of a BBC show called Eureka.
It was a sci-fi original series.
It was a sci-fi original series.
Oh no.
Are you referring to the CBBC show?
No, no, no.
Um, Eureka was a, a, a sci-fi original show about a town that was full of geniuses.
That, that was-
I remember that.
Uh, yeah.
Okay.
Haven, which was the show I brought up, which is a, it's a show that was extremely
loosely based on a Stephen King novel.
Um.
Yeah.
Me and Jay are thinking of something very different.
Really God.
I remember a TV show on BBC called Fucking Eureka, but I don't think that's
what Aiden's talking about.
No, but it's the thing that I just linked to the thing that you are thinking about.
If it's Fear and Cotton, then yes, because Fear and Cotton was BBC.
Definitely not.
That is definitely not it.
Ariel, what are you talking about?
What?
Don't get distracted.
It's fight.
Jay, this looks so fucking bad.
My point is like Haven, Haven ended up becoming just a Twilight ripoff.
Excellent.
Uh, when Fear and Cotton and Holly Willabooby were competing on that one show.
Is this the show?
That is Holly Willabooby, right?
Yeah, it's weird that you remember that.
Cause I hadn't, I wasn't even like consciously aware of the fact that I remember.
It's very British.
If I said Holly Willabooby, you have to be very British to know what I'm talking about.
I don't even know what you're talking about.
You see, Jay's not even British enough.
Well, I'm not that British.
No.
And I'm not saying that as a criticism.
It's good that you're not that British.
There's some, there's some people, this thing right now, like, oh man,
but I'm that British.
Yes.
Yes.
And we don't have a time limit anymore.
We can just go on forever.
Well, we do, we do have a time limit.
No, we will never expend that.
I don't think we will.
Anyway, I'm standing by such a claim.
Anyway, go, go on, Aidan.
We've been interrupting you rudely because we're longman.
Oh, I have completely forgotten what I was even talking about.
Oh, my point was that some of these more kind of like, okay, but generally less
characterly involved shows or character involved shows people don't care about
so much, but shit like Star Trek and Buffy and all those other stuff, a lot
of the shit we're talking about, like the characters actually matter to people.
And that's why you can't screw with it or reboot it.
Yes, usually, you know, because the characters meant something.
But usually they were portrayed by their original actors.
No disagreement from me.
I told Wolf after we'd finished it, I was like, this is getting rebooted,
or at least they want to.
And he was just like, no, no, you don't reboot this.
It's it's a perfect storm.
You don't recreate this.
It's not possible.
And if someone gave me all the money in the world, I'd be like, no, you don't do it.
You create something else because you can't recreate this.
It's not happening.
Would you would you be happy to create something in the same world?
Yes, I actually said that that would be my idea for taking Buffy forward
would to be create a new show in the the universe's rules.
Right. Right.
Only referencing at most what happens in Buffy.
Right. Because we exactly because we have a universe that's been established
that they can use as a basis for all the rules if there's questions going forward.
But at this point, it would be more fun.
And to just start over, not Buffy, it's just in the Buffy universe
or reason the Buffy universe rules, which if you're trying to attract people who
are going to flock to a franchise because of brand loyalty,
they're going to do it whether or not you attach the specific name
Buffy to it, or it can be Buffy, you know, like underscore
and then the actual title of shit.
You know what I mean?
Well, I mean, I'm assuming you're aware of the whole like I talked
to an erotic about this, but I was like, OK, so the reboot Buffy as a major Buffy fan.
I'm like, OK, what do we know?
And it's like, this is all we know.
She's going to be black.
Like, um, what a cool thing to know.
But this is the thing. It's like, OK, I have questions.
So is this does this mean that it's going to be set in the 90s?
It's like, we don't know. She's going to be black.
OK, is this a reboot?
But it's based in modern times.
We don't know. She's going to be black.
I don't. But it's the the shit I
and I think most people don't give a fuck about.
And a new article saying that these kinds of announcements
for all we know would be kind of cool if they were going to do like a
to go along, I guess, with the same kind of stranger things
as aesthetic of setting it in the 90s and recreating the 90s.
That might be neat.
But yeah, there's no information about that.
I mean, whatever.
Have they announced the actor or have they just announced?
No, no, no, no.
They haven't even touched the script.
They just said that it's going to be a black Buffy.
Yeah. So they don't know who they've chosen.
There's no black though. That's important.
Yeah. Which does that not scream to you?
That it's like, hey, we're progressive.
Look at the cool people we are.
And funnily enough, Anita Sarkeesian was one of the many people who said,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
And this is, you know, the argument is that don't reboot Buffy,
but also that there are black slayers.
There already are black slayers.
There already are. Yeah.
Make a show about them.
If that's what you want to do.
Why reboot? Have a character called Buffy.
She's black. It's like, what?
How does that work?
What? Just why not?
Just, yeah, have a new slayer, because guess what?
They're you got plenty to choose from.
What does what does Giles say?
Like early on, the average lifespan of a slayer is like one to two years.
Yeah, it's not long. You've got plenty of freedom.
So Buffy was an extreme anomaly.
Not to mention there's a shit ton of slayers after season seven of Buffy.
There's a shit ton to work with.
If so, if we're talking about if we take this home to modern times,
you're basically talking about having a ton of slayers
that you could choose from.
You could do an X-Men type thing with it almost.
By the way, I like I like being on that side of the argument.
If someone said we're rebooting the buffer universe, we've got a male slayer.
I'd be like, hey, no.
And they'd be like, what do you mean men can't have the power?
I'd be like, no, that's fucked up.
And it's funny, I'd be on that side of the argument.
You know what I mean? Like people, I mean, it's just it's law.
Women are the ones that have the power, not men.
So fuck off. Is that actually canon?
That wasn't a joke.
No, it's women who have it's all based on the idea.
Men absolutely cannot be slayers.
Yeah, they can't be slayers.
What's the what the fuck is the law there?
Funnily enough, you could argue it's have you ever read the manga claymore
or watch the anime?
It's very much of the same premise.
The lore of the slayer is that a bunch of men in cavemen times
were trying to fight demons who were around in cavemen times.
And because they were, you could argue sexist.
I think it's fair.
They injected, slash, like,
forced possession of a demon into a girl
to give her the power of the demon to fight back.
And as a result, it was every time she dies,
the power passes on to another chosen of that generation.
And the chosen part is a little bit vague, but it's always a girl.
Not a guy.
And there's even comments in season seven where it's like,
I think it would be cooler if it was a guy from like one of the one of the guy
characters and it's just like, fucking matter.
That's not how it works.
Exactly.
And I mean, that's that's fine.
It's within the.
Narrative that.
That the thing with.
OK, so we could contrast it with 40 K
and space marines, right?
Only men can become space marines
just because of restrictions on the physiology.
For this reason that I mean, it's that's just
you can still be a debt to serious, but they can't undergo the same,
you know, physiological transformation because only men can survive that.
Yes, stuff about how the process began and who they got the gene seed
stuff from is all only men only make it be space brains.
Exactly. And that's OK.
But it's funny how can you imagine the war?
Can you imagine the Warhammer world isn't really all that fair?
I know he's a war with the absurd bodies
and then there's just girls as well.
And you're like, oh, I thought it was like a muscley.
OK, like, oh, how do you even up that gun?
Like, seriously, it's as big as you are.
Carry on. Yes, go on.
Well, I mean, it's just interesting because it seems to be OK
that in a series like Buffy, like, oh, well, only
there's at least less cake pack to it.
That in Buffy, only women can be slayers.
That's extremely well set up in the lore.
And no one seems to have a problem with that.
For whatever reason, all of a sudden now in 40 K, for example,
well, only men can be space marines.
Well, that's sexist. What?
Let's say that you can't do that on case to case.
Like, you know, does it is there a valid reason for it?
Or is it just? You can't.
Yeah, it's got to make sense.
There's got to be a reason for it.
If there's if there's no reason for it within the lore
and people are saying you can't do this because I feel that way.
OK, that's dumb.
But. I find it odd that the same kind of stuff that has been explained
in media in some instances of excluding.
Females. Is being shut down.
However, stuff that excludes males
is propped up as virtuous.
I find that frustrating.
But that's my opinion, man.
I was waiting for a last J response to like what was going on.
No, man, that's I've talked about it before, but it's it's unequal
rules for the genders.
And you know what they'll do is they'll say
one of the things that they'll complain about.
Is what they say is if you have the ability to create
whatever world you want in literally every choice is arbitrary,
then you have no excuse to not create worlds that are full of equity
and all the genders are equal.
And if you put something like that into your fictional universe,
you're just using that as an excuse to live out your sexism or things like that.
It's all the same crap that we've heard for ages.
Heard for ages what they always bring up.
Well, I was going to.
You have to create world you if you create inequity in a fictional world,
then you have sinned essentially.
You've done a bad thing for Buffy enough.
Only women have the sleigh of power.
And I feel like up until season seven, they were like, you'll be like, why, though?
And season seven, they're like, fuck, we better answer this question.
It's just the way we better answer it.
I would say arguably, which is is funny, is that although we're told
and and shown how powerful the slayer is,
we're also very much shown.
More so than we're told, how powerful witches and wizards are.
Yes, yes. You know, slayers are outclassed by magic users in the buff universe.
Yes, which is illustrated, but not explicitly stated, because again,
it's like all the slayers, the only one who can defeat this stuff.
But it's like, whoa, have you taken a look at any of these magic?
Buffy explicitly says that Willow is the most powerful person they have.
So I'd like to think that that's basically definitive.
But even that's but even that whole thing is gender equal,
because Gyles is like the most powerful warlock.
Outside of Willow, who's ridiculously broken.
So, yeah, I think that even that one's pretty fair.
Um, at least in Buffy.
Yeah, it's just that there's this one thing.
That that is exclusively female.
And then there's the thing I would defend it and they'd be like,
but you're supposed to be sexist.
And I'm like, I'm sorry, that's just what the law says.
I've never actually cared about women power, men power.
It's always just been how it works rule wise.
I think that's sort of my I'm loyal to.
And it's even if you want to say like, you know, Buffy,
that, oh, Buffy's a feminist kind of thing,
which I think you could potentially argue.
Again, I would say that outside of Willow, the the strongest.
Warlock, such witch.
Is Giles.
Well, so who saves the day in Buffy season seven?
Who wins the war overall? It's Jill.
Even though it's an army of girls from Trump,
but it's someone with interesting hair color choices.
I will give you that.
Holdo.
Yeah, I was going to say that.
Welcome back, everybody.
We're just discussing TV shows as you do.
Crazy suggestion, by the way. No.
OK. What was your suggestion?
So eventually, not not necessarily right away,
but maybe eventually to get to the sixth super chat.
Oh, see, I think that's racist.
You don't see that as racist, Jay?
I am above such things.
I was like, you're a descendant of such things.
Sounds that's a very white thing to say.
That sounds like a very white racism.
No one's above racism, especially not a white.
Well, I don't know.
Do you not identify as white?
Well, I mean, you don't you don't know that I am white,
just that I look white.
No, I don't. That's why I'm asking what you identify as.
I'm asking for your pronouns.
Um, white is white is a pronoun.
Yes. Yeah.
I'm clearly not up to not up to date with the lingo.
White and when.
Um, since we've started a new stream,
I'm going to suggest that we we engage in memes.
Oh, yes. Oh, yeah, you said that we have video memes
as well as picture memes.
This is the only way to the to the watch together in case
anybody is left like a giant massive such as raggers.
You have now the ability to read joy or an
ability to read, read joy or read and read joy or a different.
Read. Yeah, we got we got some memes.
Everyone is everyone ready for the plan.
No, it's not playing at all. It's poor.
No, I just had to pause it.
Well, let's watch together being a man comes at.
So here's our first effect meme of the day.
This video format. Here we go.
It comes at you with surprising potency hits you with a jolt
and leaves you both hot and cold at the same time,
just like the jump scare that's about to appear at the end of the sentence.
One point two.
Oh, yeah.
Without reference, this is a nonsensical meme.
Hashtag, we were there.
Billion. Billion.
This is called retain of the fucking Spooder Wars.
Oh, another. Oh, my God, it's back.
So this is what he found.
Fifty two was was reduced to
Disney taking over it, which funnily enough, one guy in your comments
who decided to destroy your channel.
Right. Yeah, he thought he was responsible.
It's not totally on the box.
This is the funny thing is the dizzy old Star Wars.
This is the Star Wars soundtrack.
This could totally be taken down by this video.
Being sad about the fact that it's taken down by copyright.
That's why I'm pausing while also reducing the volume.
How about that?
But yes, Disney are evil overlords.
We hate them. Yep.
But I'm I'm I'm going to.
Oh, no, look at that.
Back to Spooder Wars.
Back to Spooder Wars.
This ends now.
Last time on Spooder Wars.
I see this is an absolute win.
Number 11, please.
God, make it stop. Make it.
And we will eat both your arms and then both of your legs.
And then we will eat your face right off your head.
So so if anyone's not following Spooderman wants to.
He may have had a case any following along with this.
He may have issues with me slash the stream.
But ultimately, the idea that Disney would take it down as a whole.
That is not acceptable to Spooderman.
No, he plans to eat Mickey.
What is your word?
It venom was a weird.
That is only where I was actually about to.
The venom is weird as fuck.
I kind of hate it and kind of love it at the same time.
Who who here saw venom in full? I did.
I guess. Yeah.
Rags, did you see it?
I have not seen don't see it.
No, it's not worth it.
It's a weird one.
I saw it with Alex and his girlfriend.
And funnily enough, the first comment out of the three of us was from here
saying, man, they deleted a lot of scenes from that film.
And she'd drawn that from the fact that there's so much missing scenes
in terms of continuity is broken to the point where you're like,
I'm pretty sure we're missing a scene.
I think we jumped a few men.
Why would they do that?
How how weird is that as a criticism, though?
Yes, it's pretty.
It's if people are walking out of your movie, no. Yeah.
That's that's yeah, I've heard that.
I've heard it's I've heard like good and bad.
But I've heard from people who are.
Not subject to the that it is to me, as you may know,
it's going to be carnage.
Ringy has said he enjoys it.
Didn't they bring in like a totally new director like halfway through?
That sounds like something they would do.
I was going to say that sounds normal, but it shouldn't be normal.
What's it's like when you look like Han Solo and stuff?
Oh, I know.
Solo so many of these movies now, they have to like constantly change
the directing staff.
So it makes sense then why stuff looks so disjointed.
And when you watch it as the viewer, you go, what the fuck?
What were you doing here?
And you can tell that things have been cut up because basically
they're trying to just edit everything together and post
and making it make sense.
I'll tell you what I'm a sword wielding kangaroo bitch.
So Shad was resurrected in eight.
I guess that is the continuity, OK?
Oh, God, this is a thing.
Chad lives. What film is this footage from?
Kangaroo Jack. Yeah, Kangaroo Jack.
Australia is fake, fake.
Spoodles far from over, far from over.
And so I'm glad that happened.
So this is called the obligatory steamed efap meme.
I have no idea how much I'm going to pause on this
because I don't even know where I should, but it's I've seen half of it.
It's fantastic. Here we go.
Well, I made it despite directions.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
I hope you're prepared for remembering.
So I'm a huge Simpsons fan.
Upon seeing this episode, as much as any Simpsons fan,
we never expected this to become a huge meme.
She's memes. Yeah.
I don't even know why.
Like what it was.
They put Super Chats into the fucking ice.
What the fuck?
Ruined a discord for a good thing.
And as much as that sucks, how about we talk about Star Wars?
I want to congratulate anybody who takes all of the congratulate
the all of the congratulate the clips and tins them into an actual narrative.
That's amazing.
Ooh. Delightfully.
And I can let this play because this isn't copyrighted.
How wonderful is that?
Aidan, if you haven't seen this, it's wonderful.
Yeah, that's awesome.
That's crazy.
Mola, her.
I mean,
you know, I mean,
like Raspy, the wolf is Peter Ritz.
Why is there smoke?
Moller.
Oh, that isn't smoke.
It's steam.
We're going to be doing that today and it's going to be fun on the phone.
OK. Downton.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you're ready for a mouthwatering memes.
I thought it was mouthwatering memes.
Your response?
Don't know.
I said steamed memes.
That's what I call hamburgers.
You call memes steamed hams.
Oh, that's just silly.
Ah, what's silly in Lost Jedi?
Really?
Well, I'm from YouTube and I've never heard anyone use the phrase steamed memes.
Oh, no, I didn't say that.
How did you do this?
Did you find the little elephant clips?
He's eating a geode, the geode, geode.
You know, memes are quite similar to the J's geode.
Oh, no.
That means old family recipe for steamed memes.
Yes. Yes.
And you call them steamed memes, despite the fact that you know,
Yeah, I know what that is.
Excuse me for one second.
Oh, well, that was fantastic.
That time was head by all I'm pooped.
Yes, I should be.
Good Lord.
That's Goliath.
Goliath.
Goliath.
At this time of year, at this time of day, in this part of the country,
localized entirely within your Discord.
Yep, yep.
No, no, die on the shitter.
Oh, wait, what was that?
I want to see that again.
Die on the shitter.
Oh, you are an odd fellow, but I must say, you're a good ham.
Idiot.
Idiot.
That was fucking brilliant.
We've got a we've got a steamed Habs meme for eFap and it's perfect.
Oh, my goodness.
I didn't have Discord up the whole time.
That's embarrassing, but it doesn't matter because you hit it.
Oh, was that not on the screen?
Well, they could hear us.
They couldn't see our faces lighting up.
That's because I'm drunk.
Okay, I was worried that the meme wasn't on the screen.
Oh, no.
The meme was on the screen.
They could see the meme.
But yes, meme.
Sorry, that's not meme.
That was 10 Haku.
That was wonderful.
Thank you.
We enjoyed it very much.
So this is called, I don't think I ever played this.
It was before it was actually made before the Spider-Man home
coming debate, and it's called my humble predictions for the home
coming debate.
You know, I think that you guys are more than reasonably in a camp
that's like, yeah, homecoming roof, not so great, but like we're in
the complete opposite.
We're like, how could you think this isn't a great film?
I'm confused.
So it's just there's a huge clash is going to happen there.
I imagine.
Yes.
Well, see, I'll be ready.
I'll be ready because I have very strong feelings about that film.
Very strong feelings about that film.
You can still like the content.
You can still feel whatever you look at this stop asserting that it
is logically written when it is proven.
They're citing myself upon this idea that you can dislike it.
You can't assert that it's illogically written, which in fairness
to Nidrotic.
I don't think he ever argued that it was illogically written.
I just yeah, it was just any logical standard.
Don't you know who I am?
We'll see.
I'll be ready.
I'll be ready.
For the record, I'm on very good terms with Gary and I think you
would find this amusing.
It's just silly.
Yeah.
And then this was made I guess post Spider-Man go ahead.
What?
Hang on.
It's the hang on.
Sorry.
Is that Illidan or Malkanis?
I'm getting them confused.
Is what?
Is that Illidan or Malkanis?
Illidan, Stormrage.
Good.
Okay.
I was right.
I think it matters though, Jay.
I have to agree with Rags.
You're a bad person for even suggesting that it does matter.
I never suggested that.
Gated.
All right.
So here we go.
This is another meme.
This is the Simpsons meme and it's unbiased homecoming court.
I will no longer follow you.
You're a dishonorable leader.
You're a bad man.
You have the baptism.
I denounce you.
You're a that sort of thing.
Why are we talking about Spider-Man?
Final part of Star Wars trilogy is coming.
We're going to see how Anakin falls to the dark side and how
the Republic falls.
Slown old poke.
Slown old poke, yes.
Slown old poke.
When James Moore hears that there's an efap about to start, but
he just uses last pocket change to buy a first world country.
Oh hell, let's just do it.
We always do.
Hijack some nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage.
Goodism.
All right.
This is called a healthy reaction from a person of sound mind
and then slash s if you guys are aware of what that indicates.
Oh.
Sexual harassment.
She's that's actually from the boys.
I believe.
And it's the is a Superman like character who is not considered
great in terms of morality and the brown table would very much
be this character if he was asked on to a date in any way shape
or form by a male and I think that meme illustrates it perfectly.
This one old efap meme brown table decimates the toxic brood
and it's spelt on my in a different.
Don't let a single one get away.
Video game cutscenes mean I don't have to pause.
Oh, thank God.
Sexual arrest take down about 10 still your fear.
It's now or never.
We'll win this.
I know we will.
Super Smash Brothers on safe.
Is it ultimate?
Who's a bro?
Can you win in it?
It might be ultimate.
Spider saw the future.
Unlike Superman.
There's no day slide.
Who wrote sexual harassment?
I was wiping everyone out sexual harassment.
Nobody says a chance of harassment harassment harassment.
Sexual harassment.
My God, it's like everybody.
Sexual harassment should be in stoic wooden.
Dancing.
Gonna get tonal.
That is the question.
Oh, no, don't run.
If I can shoot laser beams out of my hands that guy would be toast.
Stay tuned to see how tonal survives.
Watch out for this man.
Somebody eat this man.
Wait, I want to see what happened to tonal.
I need it.
You have no idea how much I unironically want total to save the rest of us total.
You can do it.
We believe in you.
So unfortunately, we've got to eat this man.
One of them extensive memes.
But this is one that I feel like I'm absolutely getting hit with copyright for because it's basically a complete repurpose of a Doctor Who episode.
Or Doctor Who like the BBC loves copyright striking.
I'll do what I can but this is probably gonna get stricken.
So just if it does like just wait.
Okay, guys, it'll come out eventually the first episode.
We just did tonight that'll come out easy because there's nothing to copyright as far as I'm aware this one less so but hey, it'll be fine.
It's them aliens.
I'll bet my pension read the subtitles.
I guess to make it make more sense.
What's his name?
Jay Green Massives Wilfred Wilfred and Sylvia next to him.
You want this time?
You want this time you green swine.
Look, you get back inside Sylvia.
They always want the women.
They always want the British.
Oh, dad.
Just look.
Oh, my God.
Look at the sky.
This is a season for the thing.
Yeah, this is season for right.
Yeah.
Gonna like talk over it.
What was it feel bad because he's actually a milkman.
Yes, it makes sense.
I'm the milkman.
My milk is delicious.
Yes.
Oh, there's rags.
Oh, you can play by Rose.
Who's a girl?
Poker right now, milker.
I remember this.
I remember watching it up to date and being like, oh, my God.
This is such a major event.
Having Rose teleported while the world is falling apart.
Jay, do you remember caring about this?
Yeah, it was great.
It was great.
I was like, I must have.
You don't see the day the bad man, the gay, the bad man, Captain Marvel.
This is totally all right.
Now, this is probably 100% copyrightable.
Fat.
To say like everyone, like when you guys make these mean, you got to understand that if
it's copyrightable, we got to do this.
Yeah, and I get that it makes it less funny to pause.
There's literally no other option.
I actually didn't.
What was the day you're more of an expert and Aiden to a degree, I believe.
I don't know how much you know about Doctor Who, but people have felt the intro was damaged
at one point in terms of changes because they change it every season, right?
So not every season.
The audio was out of sync the intro on all of the episodes after like episode five of
season one.
Yeah, the audio was out of sync.
I'm going to keep playing it while you talk to pass through the copyright.
Okay, there's a right at that clip where the TARDIS like zips through and it spins around
the TARDIS as a whoosh that plays at the wrong time.
And it's like, you know, that's how you can tell.
I just remember that.
I remember that because I was I was into the threads and the conversation about Doctor
Who and I remember that it was in Matt Smith's era.
There was an intro that happened that pissed everyone off.
I never got pissed off about that one.
It looked really not.
I don't remember being the first one.
I remember being eventually within.
Yeah, it could have been that one.
It looks really cheap, but I didn't mind it personally.
They put so much effort into image masking all of these memes and I can't play them in
their glory.
I have to play them and pause them.
It's horrible.
Look at this all these moving and increasing in size according to how Paul said they were
taking the critics.
Look at this effort.
I know what's about to happen to you in this scene.
I know what's happened to you.
I remember this.
It's actually the art.
Isn't it the origin of the hand that we looked at?
It is the origin of the hand.
Rags, you're about to learn some shit.
Oh my.
Oh, yeah, this relates back to the torch.
Would we?
Yes, it does, Jay.
Yes.
The origin of the hand.
This is the payoff of the hand.
Yes.
Well, no, it's the origin.
Why would it be the payoff?
No, no, no, no.
The origins when his hand gets chopped off.
Yeah, you said it would be.
It's not the origin.
It's the payoff.
Yeah, this is the payoff.
This is the origin.
No.
No, his hand gets chopped off way earlier than this.
No, it's after this.
No, his hand gets chopped off in his fucking first episode season.
Like the Christmas special.
I thought you like.
Okay, wait, remind me.
What does he channel his regeneration Tism's into?
Into his hand.
That's the payoff to that.
And it makes him a clone that goes back with Rose, right?
That's how that works.
Yes.
Okay, you got me.
All right.
My daughter who Tism's on as good as your Tism.
I submit.
Well, this is a beautiful scene of you being reunited with Rags.
Well, what I will say is it's really contrived.
Like it's cute that these two reunite.
But the fucking Dalek is just like, oh, they just didn't notice him until now.
Like I could have been done a lot worse.
Oh, absolutely.
Why was that clip just in there like this?
So Rags picture.
We've been separated for how long is it Jay?
Like two years, three years.
Wow.
I can't imagine a week without you.
Okay.
Okay, right.
There are okay for the context though.
There are Daleks fucking everywhere.
Like the contrivance is that they haven't thought of that.
Not that a Dalek shows up.
Just how long have they been separated?
That's the important part.
Yes, like a very long time for him.
It's going to be longer for him.
It's going to be like because he has adventures off screen.
He's like right.
It is for viewers.
It's three years and then others to you know, it's two seasons for viewers.
I'm not sure how many okay.
So Rags picture.
We were separate literally you were I or you were pulled into a different dimension
and we couldn't speak to each other for two years.
And this is the first time we see each other.
Okay, that's that's what's happening here.
All right.
Well, I wonder if you the Dalek is going to be very emotional.
The huge moment that we're finally able to say hi to each other again.
And I have to pause it because that's already enough to make copy bots go nuts.
This movie is a fucking mess.
Majorly arrives at this very moment Rags.
I'm so sorry.
Oh, no.
Yeah, he arrives.
And he decides to shoot me.
And then free teleports in and destroys majorly.
See what I mean about the whole like oh, oh, you just oh, come on.
I would have shut up.
Is there just no reason for that to Jack?
I don't remember.
I just remember being like man, the Dalek just happened to show up and then Jack happened
to show up after the Dalek happening to show up isn't that isn't contrived at all because
they're fucking all over.
Well, he's only one of them, but they happen to hit him at the emotional peak.
You've got to admit that's a little bit.
Yeah, it is a bit contrived, but like it's it's not bad.
Like it's not as bad as anything by Steven Moffat or Chris Chibnall.
Here we are.
Chris Chibnall is awful.
Steven Moffat has his peaks in his lows.
His valleys.
Sure.
You know that hang on.
Do you aware of the episode?
Are you aware of the fact that in Doctor Who canon now the moon is an egg?
Yes, and is it a dragon is born from it or yeah, a dragon hatches out of the moon.
I think I saw that episode.
I don't remember, but it's dumb, but in continuity, right?
There's a moon base built in like 2070 or something.
So they can't just get rid of the moon and say it hatches the moon now.
So as soon as the creature hatches from the egg, it lays an identical egg.
It is now the new moon.
It's the dumbest shit.
I hate it.
Makes sense.
You're also that that entire episode is a metaphor for pro life.
I believe.
Is is interesting into resting.
I will give you that.
He says Rose, but it sounds kind of like you could believe it's me saying rags under breathy.
I could.
Yes, I can sound like Rose.
I remember this being intense though, because this means so rags.
If you didn't know the doctor as a character whenever he sustains mortal damage, he must regenerate which turns it into a different person altogether and people really like David Tennant.
And so the idea of him turning into another person is bad and even Rose is on board with this.
She's like, no, no, no, no, no, don't turn into another person.
You're I really like you this way.
Okay, just knowing how his fucking arc and so it would have been so much better just the end of this was this regeneration.
This would be better.
You're referring to when the master becomes a crazy person.
Yes, that's fucking all which is just after the waters of Mars, which is a shame, isn't it?
Yeah.
Wait, Rose is saying that the subtitles say that Jay is saying that, but Jay.
Oh, no, wait.
Sorry, you're playing.
Don't Donna saying that.
Yeah, Donnie.
You're right.
Donna kebab Donna doesn't know about regeneration.
Right.
Sorry, but but Jack does.
Why in this narrative would Jay be unaware?
He's the doctor who fans is this is broken my immersion.
Jay.
What can I do broken law?
I apologize.
They should be Jack.
What do you mean?
Donna should be Ringy.
That would make more sense because Ringy would have no fucking clue what doctor who is.
I'm hugely critical of efap memes.
I'll tell you that much.
Yeah, this was the only time where it's been Hugh.
Well, I say this as if I've watched it all.
This is this is probably the most significant is ever been because people are more attached to David Tennant's doctor than pretty much any other doctor in history.
Like well, it's talk.
Come on, Jay.
Don't give me that shit people fucking adored him.
I remember having to look through comment sections being like he should have been the doctor forever.
I remember having to look through comment sections of people predicting he would be the 12th and then 13th doctor.
Like he's just going to come back to be another member when they said that Christopher Eggleston.
David Tennant and Matt Smith was supposed to have an episode but Christopher Eggleston disagreed and didn't want to do it.
And so they had to bring in John.
Well, I was going to say the 9th doctor.
Is it the 10th or 9th?
I think it was the 9th.
Chris Freckleston is the 9th but they brought in John Hurt instead and he's the war doctor the one that came before.
Yeah, yeah, it doesn't that the fucking that breaks cannon though.
Anyway, as in it can it makes more sense.
Does it though?
Jay, can you explain that it does?
Because we know in the 9th doctor's first episode that he's just regenerated.
So it wouldn't make sense for him to still be the 9th doctor and not have ended the time war yet because the time it starts with a time war.
It starts with like him being fresh and the time war is already over.
So it he ended it before he became the 9th doctor.
The time war ended.
I remember that was kind of retcon.
They had to show it was it was retconny.
But not in ways that didn't make sense.
Like it retcon previous events, but in a time travel show where that can happen.
I mean, I'm only really trying to delay.
I'm like, yeah, it did.
It did shove him in, but like it didn't break cannon.
It was a retcon though.
I really like John.
It was a doctor.
That's okay.
Rip John here.
He was a really good actor.
Pretty weird to think that he was the guy from Alien.
A lot of people were like, oh, that was the guy from Alien.
He explodes.
Yes.
Bitch, I gotta I gotta live.
Yeah.
Even though he kind of doesn't know.
And I always saw it as like a cop-out to prevent the Iranian leadership.
I was thinking like, well, him getting shot is kind of Russell T Davis's choice as well.
So it doesn't.
Yeah, it's like well, it's it's a bait.
This is just a bait.
Isn't it?
Yes, true.
But it's also to try and get you rose a happy ending, right?
It also creates this the other doctor to be fair alternate dimensions.
Doctor.
The Metacrisis doctor is what he's not.
I didn't know that.
It's not the sound effects they had for the original for that.
Yes.
Yes.
My goodness.
I didn't know.
Wow.
Part 2 will be out when I get around to making it.
If you like Doctor Who related content, check out my channel at Editron.
Thanks for watching.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hey.
Hi.
There you go.
Three hellos.
I like that we had Jay here to translate Doctor Who tismary.
What's this related video?
Oh, no.
One is more efap memes.
More efap memes.
Efap memes.
What?
I didn't even get a chance to say my plan.
Your plan.
You know who else had a plan?
Please don't say Hitler.
Adolf Hitler.
Apparently, Geeks and Gamers have had raided us with waffle memes and I didn't acknowledge
Geeks was too distracted by Doctor Who.
Thank you, Jeremy.
What is this happening now?
Weak waffle memes.
It did happen.
And it was my bad that I didn't notice.
Yes.
Do you like waffles?
Do you like waffles?
They're like pancakes with syrup holders.
No, that's the wrong side.
Milton.
Milton.
Milton?
Milton to the design of the breakfast food.
Has they even gone to sleep again?
I think that Aiden might have slipped away into sleep if I buy land.
It truly shows the power of efap that we can survive two sleep cycles.
Oh, that happened already in the 24-hour one.
Brew.
But those were...
Brew.
Those were true.
I was just sent this one.
It's called sneak peek efap wolf versus rags and then it says scissors.
Wolf, scissors, rags.
You were saying it's a scissors and everyone was like, what are you talking about?
Look, that's not incorrect.
Well, no one says it that way though.
Yeah, well, it's not correct.
They need to get with the old times.
That's me, OG rags.
Talk about scissors like the good old days.
How do they pronounce scissors?
This isn't scissors.
Holy shit, that's weekend warriors.
That all the way back in like efap 3 something.
Yeah, man, this is taking it back.
This is some old efap shit.
Yeah, scissors.
Yeah.
Well, it wasn't the contention that it was like...
But he said A, scissors.
Okay, listen, we can have...
You notice that me rags don't see this scene the same way as all of you guys do.
This discussion again, I don't fucking know.
The point is that if I take my pants and I cut them down the middle...
Yes, I will give it to you.
Once you guys see...
Oh, I don't have...
Do I have a pant and then another pant?
And I put together and they become pants?
Or do I have half pants?
You have two halves of pants.
So by this logic rags wins, right?
Of course.
Absolutely.
I always win.
You have two halves of a pair of pants.
Also, I have no idea what Filmora 9 is, but apparently it lets you do this.
It's a free software and it has a mighty watermark on it.
Yes, it does.
That is a mighty watermark.
So you have a pant.
It's like a pair of pants.
The pant is...
I can't see Gandalf spinning on the floor with that.
You don't understand.
You need the contact.
But they're connected at the top.
They're in pants like short for like...
So now if you have two pairs of pants...
You say I have a pair of a pair of pants.
So if you have two...
It's worth it.
This final one is a video game, I believe.
So that means I can play it all.
It's from Mr. Eman Gameplay himself.
It is called Emperor Mauler of the Efap Empire.
Sorry, I need to read this out for people who don't want to win.
Massive, 17 plus.
There's strong amounts of rhino milk.
I impact objectivity.
Intensitism, memes.
Got to watch out for that objectivity.
Use of elevator music and Tonald and Imrax.
You need to be aware of this.
Oh, this is with meme repository as well.
JXC management.
I am Mauler.
And I was born into this world.
Just like you.
But with a nation of men...
The sound editing is so good.
The bastion of hope and courage.
The Empire.
There's no way to appreciate how much effort's gone into this.
I'm sorry.
We just can't play it and laugh.
It's amazing.
This looks great.
Take mine.
Come on, let's try it.
Give it this.
Now.
We unite.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Wait!
To purge the evil that dare come from us!
Follow me!
And we will punish this darkness.
I swear this is your Emperor.
Emperor
Gotta defend yourself against the themes
I
Don't know if Theo would be comfortable with the idea that movie Bob defeats him
You
Most people do not know what a wyvern is
Impossible to watch movies wrong, but you're watching movies wrong the line
That's crazy, that's very good. Wow. That's some high-quality meme
There I can't believe this exists. That's where we're at at this point. Oh
Man, what was that game? I think it's total war
Yeah, I don't know what came out of war
It was God of War
Something worry something of war maybe someone probably knows of war what it was right dawn of work is at the end
He's like for the dawn. Oh dawn of war. Yeah, that could be it
Yeah, and then he's like made that into part of the little thing for the meme. It's like, oh, yeah, it's the T-Rex noise
It's too good he fappers of me that's crazy
I'm not even done yet
The conclusion of the efap saga with like the epic like end game style battle
Well, like, you know all of the Avengers appear. Well, like someone who fully edits and we all die and it's a nice little ending
Why do you want us all to die Jay? What's that about?
No one dies in the endgame battle no one
It's okay. No one else Wow
No, no one apparently isn't a character to you
Well, he doesn't die in the battle he dies after the end of the battle
Do you do you guys I don't know if you knew this but when season 8 episode 6 aired the shot of
Daenerys with a dragon behind her with a wing the wings spread out. Yeah, it's stupid fucking shot
Yeah, and people were like this shot is so good. It should be showed at any film class
I kind of find it funny that they'd say that but the nostalgia critic one
It's a good reference this little thing
This is in reference to the fact that the thumbnails being changed from YouTube I
Made this you made this I made this
I guess this is
You got you got real criticism I think roundtable anything but captain Martin your sexual harassment which has managed to really survive the memes
It's oh, yeah, sexual harassment is oh, that's a good one
It just shows you can't can't get rid of sexual harassment. No easy unbeatable as they say
Hello Greedo escaped the efap memes by questioning the validity and bring whether or not they were
What was it? Sorry? What do you think massive was?
Are you calling me Jamaican? That was it? Yeah, are you calling me Jamaican escaped such things?
Um, this was sent to me on on twitter and i'm so drunk that I didn't get to really reference it to
I I don't get to vet very well. What is this?
General black
I think it might have something to do with the star wars
Probably star wars related. I will give you
general black
It's it's just like a like a new one that we don't we can't remember because we're too inebriated
Yes, but there's so many things like a reference to like I don't what's the reference here. The Han Solo is black
I can't remember. What what what's this referencing?
Who is that well, that is that is the guy who plays warm
Home manga tismong war manga
Kill manga kill manga and creed and he is on the head
He's the head of Han Solo and I can't remember what we said
I'm pretty sure this reference is something we said. I've just my memory is so bad right now
I hate super chat person. I never said no characters die in end game. I said no characters
Final battle which technically is true because he dies after the battle. Oh, they're splitting hairs
Well, it's still true though if he died seconds after the end of the battle, that's not part of
Also, are you hearing aiden aiden sleeping? Can you hear that everyone somewhere?
Yeah
What's that? What's this? What is the sound of he's just out like uh out like a light every once in a while
You can hear the the breathing
Is in your area
Someone pay to get that on pornhub
See but if she's if she's click it it goes to efap.me
If she's got the apparatus to hear us surely we disturb her just by talking but apparently not
Just be quiet for a while and then suddenly give her a sec. We want to make sure everyone can hear her
And then no noise like her breasts or something
Best guest a green light is flickering
There was hit that for a second
She's just sleeping all it's all good. She'll wake up again
Someone will wake her up and she will be in halfway through efap
Things
So this is uh the boys where character is using a super powered baby
That has
Eye lasers and I guess quinton reviews is using it attack people
Totally beyond fucked up
This is um efap when looking at quinton video literally anything else
I can't remember. It's the same attitude towards is it movie bob? Who's the person that we also get really bored of really quick?
Um, I can't remember it's not movie bob it's
Um
Hello greedo that was a hello greedo. Hello greedo. Yeah, hello. It distracted a lot with hella. He's just so dull
Okay, I have not liked slash seen this film literally everyone else you what? Okay. Ah shit
Yeah, it's not it shouldn't be a shock at this point
Like a good old-fashioned rag is meme for horny zone
I don't um, i'm trying to I need to figure this one out. So got other mods
Out are using theo to drive memes theo's theo's doing all the work putting all the memes in efap memes
Maybe I think that must be it. Yeah, look at this theo you're being appreciated
in a in a sense
This is this is another one, uh maul is showing batman x-rek fan art the chat
I mean
I gotta show what's there. Okay, I can't just not show it
Who would be racist do not show certain ones and show certain ones. Okay
Again this is one to be deciphered you've got I guess quinton reviews is death
Saying guess who to alien aiden paladin. He only sent it to sleep. He didn't he didn't kill her. She's fine. She'll wake up again
He believes that she's gonna wake up twice during all of efap
And then this is me she's gonna wake up twice during efap, but we're still going
Wondering what a lobster means in the flag. What does the lobster mean?
Wonderful, uh
I guess this is the uh
Three flags battling it out who will win
That's fucking amazing the dragon lobster the legs just
Oh my goodness
Fucking great, uh
So I know you guys haven't seen memento but those who have will appreciate this meme don't believe his life
Jay can't counter this once i've written that that means you lie a lot. Oh, no
You should see memento though. It's a really unconventional movie
I might watch it to to give you the hook. It's played backwards. You watch it backwards
Whoa, I fear no man, but that thing
It is genuinely terrifying in its own way, yeah
I
Don't this is my fucking favorite meme so far fucking island man like shit
I am drunk. Well, that doesn't change the truth simp sons
Um
I'll make sure we actually i'm actually running into memes here
Oh
I guess a doctor who meme which is pretty relevant
Used to be just mean rags for now. We've got
In rags buffy on the tv aden's chilling out
Uh, it kind of you could argue that fringy is spawning goliath there
Some oh man. Oh, don't say that as deep. You got bilbo and cosmic chicken on the horizon
um, I guess I want to say that's jay either preparing for battle with or battling with
somebody with a sword
Is that shad could be shad. That's probably he's probably training you
So much going on so much lore it's great. Who's that who's that in the sea?
No idea a ring wraith maybe
They don't like water that we need to see this oh jesus
Needs to be seen. Oh my goodness
It's like a resident evil boss
Oh my goodness, that's so uncomfortable. Oh, yes
It's horrifying to say the least um, please genuinely if any game devs are watching please make this happen this is um
I forget who said it but they were like you think it's bad to have a really terrible flag
This is like a part of I guess their culture or something
Dick owl
I don't know how you justify this that's so artsy. It's so it speaks to me. I'm just such a deep level
It's so artsy fartsy. It's it's something I give you that. I don't know what to really call it, but it's something
the
another meme
post
Lunch sweetie math teacher. I look down and like hey boy chicken and simpsons. So there's isn't any letter p
hiding in the simpsons
I'm a disgrace to the client
See little p. I just didn't know okay shad was teaching me and we interrupted it
um
And I guess this is the last one and since i'm so out of my mind, I I don't know what justification slash context is
I guess ryan johnson hates all of the people
Which is me jeff that star wars gill and gavins. That's jeremy
slash
jessie's
Uh, ethan vanskyver slash nedrotic. He wants to kill all of us
Oh, no
Which is only natural because
We're not a huge fan. You can't handle
the bands
Which means?
I'm back to super chats now. Okay, ready? Oh and get onto the sixth super chat
We're back to the super chats everybody. I know three hours ago we started
But this time will be different. Yes
um
All right
All right, so the next the first one of this stream to address is you guys doing good
Yeah, i'm doing pretty good i'm well i'm good
Oh wait, is this episode 54 dash two or like episode 54 episode 55?
Oh a whole new episode. I mean it took us one hour to get to super chat
So we've already got a whole bunch of content by the logic. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Gracious
faps in one day
We spoil we've sent aden to sleep twice
It's an achievement
Technically, this is over two days. Yeah, um, this says aden x dr. Layman forever
I'm guessing they have maybe a thing. I do not know
Um dr. Layman
Yeah, he's your layman. Yeah, youtubers. I wasn't aware of that. That's a name that I know understand in a different context
uh
Money for mauler but critique for jay
You do realize that some precautions called for by prominent politicians for climate change
include elimination of air travel and farting cows
I agree with you on climate change, but your tweet was extremely reductive almost
Dishonously, so you spend time on efap making fun of people for reductiveness. Come on, man
Yeah
It was funny remind me what was your tweet again, um some shit about like
Um
I'd just rather take the risk of not all dying. Um, and just trust that climate change is probably a problem
Oh, right. It was like we should do things to evade it. Even if it's not a real thing because that's not what I said
That's 110 000 what you said
I'm not even convinced climate change is actually going to be really for us
Here you go. J
Look at that silence. It doesn't matter what you do
Is china and india don't give a fuck. Yeah, that's the very concerning piece of data
You
Save some cash
From hawaii con go to meet vick miniana
John reese davis who plays gimli and had dinner with mindy sterling and comic art comic artist jeremy clark
Sounds awesome
Who's mindy sterling? No idea. I would have to google lindsey sterling mindy
Oh, there's not a name I hear anymore. Mindy feels like an old name
One of them old names
Some of the chat says j wants some greta milk
I'll be honest. Do you want greta milk some greta milk? Oh, no
Um, not not right now. Thanks. No
X-wings can't navigate with an r2 unit. How did luke get to the planet in the first place?
No r2 unit on the island and no r2 in the submerged x-wing. It makes zero sense
um
We have to assume how to get there anyway, I guess
uh
I don't remember if that's an actual statement navigation to navigate the universe like r2 units
Yeah, they're definitely supposed to be compatible like super compatible to the point where you should have one for every x-wing
But I can't remember them saying you cannot navigate without one
um
But maybe i'd have to i'd have to check
Interesting
Um, am I actually seeing quinton in the thumbnail and aiden paladin as a guest? This isn't real
I died and went to efap heaven also. Hi frags. You did hello
Welcome to efap heaven. Yeah, I know this is efap heaven plus now where the
The bonus happens. She's in efap dreamland for some of us. Mm-hmm
Have any of you seen the netflix original polar?
No
Polar but I hardly know her. I I was gonna say I have not seen it. I but is if i'm wrong
If i'm not wrong that stars mads michaelson. Yes, I believe he is in it. Um
But I I know I did never heard of it. I've not seen it. Unfortunately
Uh rags watched your craft anti-gamer my brain hurt
Yeah, that's going back a bit but yeah, man, that was a bad one
Have to defend the world's most depressed minority gamers
Gamers rise up. That was a good thing to write back to
Jay gamers rise up. Okay
We live in a society we do live in
I want to see joker, but it wasn't out yet and I blame society society fucked you up
Morla, let me ask you something pacificily. I could care less about your answer. But is water wet?
You already know this I vote. Yes rags votes. No
We there was a whole thing about it
Aidan thoughts on adoption. Don't freak our high doggy
I think I think that was supposed to be don't freak out and then high doggy
Hello
Um, I will I can hi doggy
I will unironically just simply ask aiden that if she comes back. I will ask her thoughts on adoption
Uh, but only if she comes back now that you're back, what are your thoughts on this option?
It's not because the common thing that's going around is the whole pro life pro choice thing
It was just like pro on adoption. She's just gonna be like what the fuck? What do you mean?
Answer the question aiden
Uh, I agree with you on climate change, but your tweet was extremely reductive. Oh, sorry. That's that's the second half
Yeah, I read ahead
Uh, where can I watch rags and aiden play pathfinder?
I
That is streamed on knuckle of these channel
How do you spell knuckle of e?
I believe it is
let me see
N u c k e l a v e e
I found it. It's the blood of heroes is the description cancer from the north
Because that's what it says cancer from the north. Yeah, it says the about me I guess is cancer from the north
Is that right? Yes. Yes, that is it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's it. I am about to post it into the live chat
So if you guys wish to find this all you need to do is click the link post it into the live chat, which is connected
Or follow what rags instructions were which were very clearly defined because I found the channel through them
Yes
There you go
um
Yes, spider-man is back so that real flat real fans can tell us how bad he is
We'll see if in spider-man 3 or far from
I don't know what they would call it home far from whatever
It doesn't matter the point is that if it's one that matches what they want. It might be one that they like who knows
um, okay
Does batman like origins find out at google.com
Sorry, not origins origins or oranges batman like oranges oranges or oranges
Answer the question jay. You're skirting right you're deflecting. I saw that
He likes shrek
Does that answer my question? I don't think so
um
I
I'm getting the sleepy also. Hi rags
Week. Hello. Hi maula. Thanks for the shout out new subs and writing advice
I made a video on objectivity and art and i'm working on my first praise video on breaking bad's finale
Please tell everyone to subscribe
If you find anything interesting from what I just said, you can find it at evan. Monroe the youtube channel that is
it has the face of
What's his name the guy from?
So many things ryan gozling from from from blade runner the new one ryan gozling
later on in the new one
He's gonna review
uh
Objectivity and art and and breaking bad's finale check it out ryan baby goose. Have you guys seen the new blade runner?
Yes
Your thoughts very not like it
Ooh
Conflict what do you mean efaps a cult? We all agree with the exact take no there's never disagreement
Well, I liked it, but I haven't finished it yet. In fairness. I might have like to finished
What the fuck jay?
Jesus Christ on a plane and then my plane landed
Okay, we'll cause a disturbance on the plane so it can't land
I must finish blade runner
In fairness, I might have liked it if not for the fact that I was informed by a friend about how bad it is
Oh shit. Okay. Oh, yeah. I haven't had any friends inform me about how bad it is. It might be
Uh, i'm down for I don't have any like real like I really really like blade runner the first one. Mm-hmm. I love the
I like the second one, but I haven't really
I don't like the first one
Okay, stop it
Okay, no, this is
Every god damn game for it. It's too slow every god damn day
Is it always gonna it's gonna be like this forever. Okay, jay
It is too slow. No, it's too slow. That's uj
Oh, I can i've oh why chat wants to know why do you not like it jay?
Sorry, i'm just looking at the
Uh, I just said it's too slowly pays for me. I didn't have the patience for it. Don't you think that's racist jay? Oh my god
What do I think that's racist?
I don't know
uh
Whatever fine. Will we read the star wars leaks?
Um
If read I kind of want to be shocked
Well, so i've i've read some and i've heard some people cover it
I've not read them all myself
I've got a link to reading them and i've been waiting for the right efap to sort of read them out
They're fun to discuss to say the least. Oh, yeah, let's do it
Then if it was gonna be fun for efap and we don't know which of them are true or not
We never know so i was gonna wait until we have vote
What you could call the right guest to really dig into it. So there's a good chance and it ends with high rugs
Wait, wait, wait, can we just read one leak now? No, you have to know. No, it has the whole thing
Okay
Uh great steven universe video rags
I'm glad that you really liked it. I put a lot of effort watching that show which was an amazing show. That's great in every way
Uh, kick mauler i'm offended also. Hi jay
Hello. Hi
At work, we'll have to ex post facto fap with y'all later
Yeah, you just keep out. It's all he's all good
Nice to see you here. Aidan kraut continues to be a massive
Call into tds again. Aidan. You should call in too mauler. You need to get him on nefap
What's tds?
The donkey show oh man, I love the donkey show
Dude, the donkey show is so good back in the day. Is this still going? I didn't know the donkey show is still going
I will definitely have the donkey show guest. I'm, sorry. I don't know what you're talking about
Uh, the next person said hi just got here. What did I miss?
13 hours of nonsense. I don't know
kind of hard to uh
Efap plot hole rags is always the woman
Why is that a plot hole? Well, that's that's consistent. Yeah, that's consistency right there
First off you thinking that my gender has to be consistent is very offensive. That's a plot hole
No, that's a reality contrivance, that's a that's a fucked up ism tism ism tryvance
I don't stand for those
J is the little brother of efap change my mind
Why would I want to change your mind about that? Yeah, I think it's okay with it
Are you okay with it?
I'm all right with it. I can still hear a breathing. That's a good thing though
That's a good thing though, um, that's generally a good sign I think yes
Have you guys heard about george lucas feeling betrayed by how disney have been treating star wars in bob eiger's book?
Yes
We we did mention it a couple times throughout the streams and we've been doing it. It's been going mentioned it briefly
All right, uh j, would you please call and whistle for rags to come
That's not how I was gonna first of all I can't whistle you can't even can't even
I can't whistle. There's no you can you just don't know how you can
Okay. Okay. Okay. Let me freeze that. I don't know how to whistle
Wow
I currently do not have the skills required to whistle
Well, you've never been like curious and
You just like many things
Jay i'm disappointed that you were never taught how to whistle
I was I tried
Pathetic absolutely. You disappointed efap as a whole
Jay does again, you're like twice in two minutes in jay's guest info on efap.me
It needs to say does not know how to whistle
That's an important detail
um
See this this super chat assumed you could
Because it said like he's one of those silly regular dogs
Not the incredibly intelligent articulate and handsome doggo that he actually is
Well jay can't even whistle. Sorry super chatter jay is disappointed
Well, he's gonna have to come up with an alternative like like fucking just clicking his finger. He doesn't even know how to do that
What come
That doesn't work jay you can't just that's just racist. Oh, oh, I i'm waiting. Oh, is that it?
I mean, that's what I was told to do
Wow
I I think aden is snoring as your I don't feel I don't feel compelled to change my location
To one that's closer to you
I just don't I don't feel that that desire to
Obey
you know
There's nothing in my my little doggy heart that feels like I should
I should go out of my way
to travel over in your direction
Belch says aden is lawful good
Is a long woman?
I mean
She may be a long woman in comparison to like short woman
But I mean that's one long woman efap long requires you stay awake for at least
15 hours
per day now boy, just make sure that when you grow up you find yourself a nice long
Won't fall asleep during your podcast
Okay
Luke having an efok efok ewok booze dream would be a good end agreed
That tells you how far back we are. Yeah, man. The rise of skywalker when ray almost I stopped for a second
To wonder to myself if that was last stream or like a stream we had weeks ago
What is it?
Okay, the rise of skywalker when ray travels back to return to the jedi and kills via auto iwakia asphyxia
asphyxiation
Um auto iwakia
Um
Oh apparently efap 54 has been hit with copyright by the way
What for what?
It says it's been information about your video it's been hit with
Tune call publishing. It's probably the horror music we played
Oh, good. Damn it. What was it? Is it it says playable or blocked?
Um, oh, so this is one of those ones where it says it's making money for itself, but you can make money, too
So one of those weird ones
Oh, wow. I've literally never encountered one of those. Yeah, it's like the the the lowest form of copyright claim
Where they're like, let's make money together and you're like, wow
Okay, like that's that's that's in oh, oh, I didn't even know that i'm kind of dumbstruck
Um, all right
Mola, what is the best objective episode of the simpsons and your personal favorite?
I'd have to rewatch them all to be able to give you an answer to the former question, but the latter
Um the episode where bart is leaning to become
Good at ice hockey and layer layer lisa becomes really good at it
Why can't I remember the name? It's the ice hockey episode
There's a shit ton of good good fucking jokes in it
And the reason why I remember this
Is because we were told for show and tell to bring in our favorite episodes of television in school
Um, what have we never get to do that?
I know right and and it was it was across the week and when it came to my turn
I brought in the ice hockey episodes of simpsons
And literally the turn before me was a guy who brought the same thing in like wow
That just makes me pointless, doesn't it? I used to know the name of it. Oh, is it called bart versus lisa?
Someone in chat said that that could be it. Is that the one where uh, lisa has a hockey stick that is like on a bart
Someone has a hockey stick that's full of termites and then the house gets eaten. No, that's not what happens, but
One of the jokes I remember is right at the beginning
Uh lisa tells bot that it's snowing and she throws ice from the freezer into it
And he runs outside in his pajamas
He's like, oh my god, it's snowing. It's great. And he's just he's sitting in the wheels. That's sunny and he's like, oh
and then jimbo the bully
says
Simpson look at your pajamas
Did your mommy buy them for you and it just cuts the body goes, of course she did who else would have
And he's like, all right simson you win this route
So good
Yeah, i'm just yeah i'm seven or oh shit lisa on ice that sounds like it's the actual name of the episode lisa on ice
I'm pretty sure that's actually mr gently benevolent. Nice. Nice job. I'm pretty sure that's the name of it
Okay moving on
Uh, that would be my pick for probably favorite, but there's a bunch of favorites
Recently broke up with my partner of nine years and going through all your guys's backlog has been beyond helpful
Particularly maula's outlast series. Love you all so much including you jay
Thanks
and
Yeah, i'm sorry that that happened, but i'm glad that uh
You're feeling better. I assume and that you love jay. That must mean something
I mean must be desperate
Episode nine theory ray will pull a home alone too and unleash a flock of porgs onto
Kylo and emperor palpatine ravaging their bodies to bones the end
Don't watch it i'll say no good bad. I have subverted my expectations
Uh all who is your soul's born waifu and why is it rosabeth from the stone?
Hashtag ds2 best souls
First of all, let me correct you there
What you meant to say was ds2 is the worst but I can see how you may have made that mistake. That's okay
Was that from harris? That was from dragon's advocate. So it may as well be called harris's advocate
Uh, the best the best one is obviously the the fire keeper from ds3, but that's
Kind of subjective i'm not going to take that away
um
Yeah, uh, you know, I wonder what you guys would choose. But then again, I wonder if you guys have played all the dark souls games
I don't actually know
Um, I will say i've have played all there right if you can promise there will be no
What you said, but I agree with
There's the the smooth sounds of aden sleeping in the background for everything we cover
Um, we will carry on
so
Uh, john wick has rambo syndrome first movie. It's basically on its own
Two and three were fun where one was just good on its own, but it's basically a different movie
I don't necessarily disagree with that one was a different movie to two and three two and three seemed to
do other things
As I said wait for metal commander's video that'll clear up how I feel about three and then eventually two
I'm
From nerd rotic buffy bros agreed aden knows her comics and has all my respect
I I feel like that's probably fair. You should have her on to um
friday night tights or something like that comic bros forever because i'm very bad when it comes to comics, but
I could totally uh
Understand comic comic people uniting
Jay I was watching your another life video and my computer crashed. Why did you break my computer jay? Why?
That's just how bad the fucking show is it's unironically I think genuinely the worst thing i've seen
It's pretty bad
Like when I was watching your video, it's the kind of thing where you're like, why does this exist?
Because at least at game of thrones, it's got seven seasons behind it
But this one is just like wow. So what made this?
There are unironic theories that it's um an experiment from netflix where they're data mining to see how bad ever show people will put up with
Like that's how bad it is that people have to theorize that it's bad on purpose as an experiment. What are the limits?
Um
Okay, hey mauler who'd
Sorry, what was that about that? I'm assuming i'm finding an article about that
Good or played metroid prime trilogy with mouse and keyboard support also favorite nintendo franchises for you guys
Uh, so i've not played
I was just going to say quickly that i've played metroid
prime and prime echoes
On controller when it's mapped to game game cube controls, but I played them on gamecube as well
I've still not played the third one. I've never played them in the mouse. I played the third
I played the third, uh on the wee and it was
Okay, like I I got bored of it. Honestly, I just was I became rather disinterested in it
It just didn't grab me but it was so long ago. I probably couldn't say any more than that actually
I just remember quickly becoming bored of it is
Jay has linked us a reddit thread that's titled was another life made bad on purpose
Just
You understand the person who wrote that would be so fucking offended by that thread
Excuse me. This is unironic as well. That's how fucking bad the show is
It's insanely bad
um
Another life. Yes that movie. I want to yes the video jb show
I mean the video wasn't awful, but the
Oof anyway, uh, it says that uh, what's your favorite nintendo franchise mine probably would be metroid
But it's not exactly easy because there's a lot of good nintendo franchises like mario kart. Yeah or mario party
Super smash brothers is up there
Um, i'm thinking back to my game cube days a resident evil so hit and miss
um
I
Well one of my favorite games of all time like well, yeah up there and maybe my top five or ten or whatever
there's um
I'm, not sure if this is a nintendo one
But it was on the game cube. It's called bait and katos eternal wings and the lost ocean
and that took me a good 60 or so hours to beat and I
Really loved that game. I adored bait and katos for a second. They were gonna say 60 years
No, no, no, no. No only 60 hours
but I
Really really love that game. Um, I think that they made another one that I didn't play
But just from the first I would say it's among
the best games ever
We sports
There you go. We sports is jay's favorite
I've not played but in nintendo games because you're a bad person jay. Do you understand this?
I had a we and I think that's my only nintendo console ever because you're a bad person
Um on that I played zelda twilight forest no
Lego batman no need for speed
Uh, we sports of course and we fit
um
Ah shit, I can't think of anything else. No, I
I don't know if um, I I guess I because i've actually forgot and I don't know why I did but game boy advance
in nintendo ds games
And if that's the case, I don't know if we're allowed to
do
Square enix developed it with one-up studio
I don't know how nintendo's involvement in it was but sort of mana on the gamecube. I really sorry the game boy
I really like
I love sort of mana. I haven't played any other ones, but I really love sort of mana
um
God, what are some of the old and of course like just just the basic super marios are really really good
I've I spent untold hours in super mario world. You just pick mario. It's a good franchise
Yeah, super mario mario is great, man. Yep
Uh super mario world too. I believe because when you're not jay you pick correct things
That's just a cool benefit of not being
Super mario bros
Uh
Because they all have like the same fucking name. Yep, super mario bros
It couldn't have just been mario could it had to be super it just didn't know you confused everything
No, it's not super mario bros too. It's super
Jeez, I can't remember the bros too on the game boy. Was that the one with like the star world
The you you get the star world and you go in and you go to the star world and go around and you got the
Multicolored yoshi's there's like the blue one and the red one
I was gonna say do you know what i'm talking about with the game boy game whether you have to collect the six points to defeat
Wario
I was obsessed with that one
And for some reason I remember the pig boss more than anything the pig that splits into three pigs and you have to
One of them rolls really fast, but then one of them bounces in weird ways and it
Oh animal crossing I I really like animal crossing
Was there like a rayman rabbits game or something? Yes, there was but that's modern because you're young
Okay
You don't know but old stuff jay
Be old
I played I played the old raymans
Did you play the rayman? Oh does nintendo do um, I didn't play the game to do
I think fire emblem
Couldn't have answered this question. There's so many things to talk about
The mario karts are good. Double dash was okay. It was my least favorite
But that's probably because I was I was a gamecube child like I loved everything on gamecube pretty much
Yeah, um, I I just think it was it's my least favorite. I think the ds one was
I love the ds one. I'll tell you something
The fucking shareware if you call it that on ds where you could basically have one guy
With the game and you could share it to seven people and have you all play. Thank you maricot
That was a genius decision because back in my day
We people will be like, oh look at them nintendo people playing nintendo games. You have no idea what you're missing
No idea
I could play it in nintendo. Ds mario kart shit was intense
So much so much shit to do. It's it's insane
Well, it's like chat in in super mario. There was a level that was
And you could there was always a star you could always get the star
Powered up, uh the star power when you were in one of the levels and you could run through the enemies and get like
15 plus lives in one run easy and you could do it over and over and over so you could max out at
999 lives is pretty crazy. I think you're talking about super mario land too, but no super mario world
Super mario land 2 you could do that. Yeah, don't he just said super mario land 2 legend of the six coins
That's the one I was asking of which you could do what rags just described in that as well
Once you hit like if you took the star and you you have to kill like 10 enemies
And as soon as you've killed that many you start getting one plus life for every kill
Um, oh elite beat agents
I don't know if anyone played elite beat agents. I love that on the ds
There's some good stuff in that. I love me some elite beat agents
I'm gonna kick on because I feel like
Bad super chat you you you asked us a question that was really good
So you're a bad person now?
um
This one says it's great to see aden on finally. Hi rags
Hello
Just got here. Who's the chick? Hi rags
Hey
Uh, the chick had to keep the chick is aden. She's currently sleeping. We we're not gonna bother until
Her mother comes in to wake her up again
Wake me up
It's time to cover
Houston productions tlj video
We it's all it's all on the to-do list
This one was on the to-do list and we finally did it in the course of 12 hours. You know, it's tough
Burn table has a tlj video
See we got him too
We've got all of it and we're close to episode
It's been nearly two years when we haven't covered them all yet rags. Have we failed as a podcast?
is that we haven't failed as a podcast because
I think we would be a failure if we didn't
Even there's only so much that one podcast can do. That's true
And I think that we've made such an incredible effort that few would say that we failed in our refutation
You would have to be nuts to think that we failed in refuting all of these terrible videos. It's time guys
You got to explore all of it
Break it down. You got to define shit and then you got to figure out the logic. It's tough. It's tough
You know what?
It's we're getting there and it doesn't you know, we may cover the shorn tlj video in 10 years from now
But it will be covered you see it'll still be still be covered and it'll still be shit
You've had 500 special yes
Here's my odd question for the stream
Wenton is a 40k style inquisitor. Do you join chaos or fight to make the imperium great again?
You fight to make the imperium great again, of course submit my answer to rags because
The context or whatever he said even consider chaos. Oh
Can't imagine sounds pretty cool to me. What but if but but I would be slinnish if I
Oh my god
It also ends in yo aden and she would say hi i'm gonna say it to you in sleep talk
Very good. Yeah, I love it
Uh say
Shin jitsu
Nitora surokoto
wakashi ani
There you go. I said it. I don't know what that means. I don't trust that it was a friendly
Nice to see you on aden. Welcome to the toxic brood. She's going to answer that with sleep talk
Oh aden you're so fun you go too far sometimes but I like it. Wow
First super chat quinton video. Finally also. Hi rags
Hello
press kick for j
Nice
Wine more rags. I think this is in reference to the wool
All right, all right, well you got your wish how do you guys feel about joker also hi rags
Hello, i haven't seen it yet. Yeah, I plan to see it though. I do want to see when it comes out
I don't understand how it came out so early
Like other people but it's not yet for like
Everyone else. So yeah, i'll see it when it comes out for sure
Looks like it's gonna be good. That's your opinion
Is that what it looks like yeah jay is that what it looks like
Yes, can you confirm that with facts and logic?
um
Can you confirm that it won't turn you into a racist sexist?
I think the uh incel is the uh as the group they're worried about
Okay, fine a racist sexist incel. I can confirm it won't turn me into an incel
What a racist sexist?
Aren't you already an incel? Yeah, no
All right fine to us rags don't trust your you're a you're a
vol cell
I believe that would just be a celibate
An incel a bit just being it's just being uh,
Specifical yeah
How do you respond to that jason?
What why do you hate specificity why do you hate everything jay you racist to everything?
I don't know. I just don't like stuff
Roof right in there. We don't need anything more
um
How do you go? Oh, yeah, right slow songs they for skinny hoes
I can't move all of this here to one of those i'm a thick bitch. I need tempo
All right
I feel like rags is just venting about an imaginary straw man. This is definitely about the wall. I haven't comment anybody
Uh for fenna, unfortunately, I found your channel via this controversy, but i'm glad I did you're really good keep up the good work
I think fenna would appreciate that. I will save it for when fenna becomes a guest onto efap
I'll read it out
Rags literally calls things bad without explanation on a regular basis
Yes, one yet wants to call others out for doing the same thing when when
I think I probably have at some point
But I it'll usually be in context of something that I consider to be obviously bad
And so yeah at this point at this point with tlj with us
Like we've been over it so much
Yeah
And I was gonna say will we still qualify the argument?
But if I was to go as far as making a video and all I said during the video was that this thing is bad
That would be bad. I wouldn't have a problem with anyone saying my video was bad
Because I don't typically do that. Uh, you can find portions of a video in which I may do that
But never a full video and that's kind of what we were going for with ralph
Especially if the context is something like oh and just some passing comment
What did you think of such and such, you know, not like a proper video that i'm making uploading to the channel
Average person nostalgia critics a review of the wall is the worst analytical video on youtube me an intellectual
remarkable republican enough said
I mean, yeah, that's definitely our class is nostalgic republican makes the best videos on youtube. I don't understand
Oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah, you're right
Uh fenna, I just watched winnifred control video and others looked fine to me
What the heck are people comparing that to that they get critical?
I'm gonna go ahead and say that because i'm not sure what that's referencing. Exactly
Don't want to be out of gun's age. Like I said, we'll we'll visit
Dfap one day
Hi, aden aden. What do you have to say to dr martin luther pepe saying hi to you?
Jay hello
And I was waiting for like a snore noise but I didn't get
It was not jay. It was aden
For a postmodern perspective nothing can be good
Yes, but also nothing can be bad
It's an interesting world. It is. Is it sad that i'm at disney world and extremely disappointed because i'm missing efap
Well, that's the beauty of moolah. You can catch up if you wish to if you're busy at the time. It's not a problem
Uh bass Disney world to burn it down
Based degenerate fury animator your segment was legitimately the most interesting part
I should say yeah, it was I think so. I I found to be the best part of the video
And I was very interested in hearing the lyrics
At the end of the day pink floyd is great and you should listen to them
Dark side is greater than the wall. Just saying also. Hello rags
Hello recently subbed to you and I really like your stuff so far keep of the awesome. Oh, thanks and you're okay too maula
Why thank you? I'm glad you like it. I think my favorite pink floyd song is
probably
time
Jabba in chat said aden let other people speak for fuck's sake
Calm the fuck down aden
Uh at jay steven universe at best is disappointing
Hmm that's subjective season five is like an amateur scat porn in comparison
Well, well if i'm gonna watch a scat porn
Well, I I would probably want to watch a professional one instead of an amateur one
I I find with like most porn homegrown is better
Well, okay, I I will say this
I prefer amateur porn to um, like professional production porn
But with scat porn, I think I would I wouldn't want to leave that to the amateurs. Yeah
Someone's like oh, it's a really good scat porn. I'd be like that's
Yeah, that's some price and uh some sensitive shit. I don't understand what people look for in that so I wouldn't
Yeah, okay. Thank you. Probably consistency and yeah, they need the
We're gonna get into the poot talk again. The themes really need to be consistent in that sort of well
If we had your poo teacher here jay, he can tell us about makes good scat porn
Oh, let's come on
Yeah
Film is the baseline. They should have had since three. It's still naff
I like this
It's supposed to chat aden contributes more asleep than jay does awake
Jay jay, fuck him up. I like how jay is our v
Ironically though
I like the meme about how it will we'll make a 24 hour one by accident. We're at 11 plus
Two hours 13 hours and we're not even close to finishing super jazz
He started streaming yesterday
This is actually insane like
Okay, next one not even a single video about cows has been uploaded to the moolah channel. I want my money back. I'm sorry
We will have a cow video eventually and it will satisfy your feelings slash
once
Feel once that's what I call it
All right
Hey guys, not sure if you remember but I chatted in 49 about joining the air force the support was amazing
And I wanted to update I just passed my physical and i'm on my way out soon. Keep up doing keep up the good work
Well, yeah, I mean hey, that's really that's really really nifty. Congratulations on that
I imagine that the the the air force requirements can be restrictive. So it's good that you've passed it. Good stuff, man
I hope that hope that it works out
Have fun
Flying your airplanes and jumping out of airplanes and fixing airplanes and just doing airplane stuff all of the airplane
At fenna real talk your animations
Gyrate too much. Yeah, I think rags actually addressed that. Um, yeah
And I think fenna, um, yeah
Took it well took good constructive criticism
Yeah, it's the idea that like you've got this full body and you're like should all of it be moving at all times
And it's like maybe not
Some things do stay still the squirrel on the the squirrel on the table
Was what kind of threw me off because it was just standing there, but it was moving like it was basically like
like
Underwater during a tide
It was you know swaying back and forth in this weird way and it looks strange
It looks kind of um
What I might call like dream like a lot of it is very it's like um abstract
It's almost like if a if a fighter in a video game
You're like a like street fighter game. Oh, yeah, that's a perfect comparison
They never stop moving fist bump, you know, move it up a little bit and they're pacing back and forth
You know on the spot a little bit kind of bouncing a little
That was a bit anyway, um, I just grew it
ha
Finally caught you guys live again missed the past two weeks due to my own idiocy jay is the best manager one could ask for
Oh, that's all right i'm gonna say what is your experience with managers?
I mean, I don't have a good experience for managers, but still
Yay, really? All right
Okay
Disney i'll take 25 percent sony. Good disney. Just give back sputum and I can't live without him
I don't know what their deal was. There's probably information on that. But yeah, I I just
In terms of sony i'd be like
Nice
You're gonna make a lot of money with him being a part of the mcu. You may as well
Like I seriously doubt that motivation is a part of creative freedom. It's got to be to do with money
So yeah, just yeah, just go ahead
It's sony
Uh x-men dofp is basically end game without seeing infinity war
x-men days of future past
Um, yeah
I mean they're arguing that they all die at the end, right?
They don't all die at the end of end games
Nobody does in a game at all. No, they do you keep saying that stop it. I'm gonna i'm gonna drop out now
because i'm falling asleep, so
Uh, hopefully when I wake up you guys will still be going and I can come back
Well, maybe
Good night. Jay. Thank you for hanging out for the the 13 hours or whatever
Good night guys. Good. Good. Thank you. You know, you could have watched the lord of the rings instead of shut up
Goodbye jay
Never mind I heard I heard jay's pronunciation of aluminium. He's no longer the best manager
It's aluminium though. It's not alamu alamunam
Um
Alma numan
I'm all learned friends in my business writing class. We learned that opinions are based purely on emotion
Whereas arguments are based on evidence logic and fact you agree with this?
No, so I think and I think I can speak for both me and rags here
Uh, we see opinion as almost synonymous with the term
Judgment and you can make many judgments in many different ways
You can judge that you need to eat based on the pure fact that you feel a form of hunger
You could also judge
That poe was not given the information he required in order to make decisions
That would have been more beneficial to the rebel
ors
Specifically because holer did not provide them to him
irrationally
There's lots of judgments that can be made in lots of different ways
And the typical way to discover whether or not a judgment was objective or subjective is based on the criteria
slash evidence
That's where we're at
Rags, what would you like to add to that?
I would say that an opinion
Is not necessarily based on facts or knowledge. It can be but it isn't necessary that it is
So you can have an opinion that is purely subjective one. That is purely based on your emotion
Or any internal biases you might have or it could be completely based on nothing except
information that you've gathered
and experiences that you
Are putting together to make your essentially your judgment and something i'd like to try in future with people we
May debate with or may not is when we reach the the term opinion i'd be like, all right
Let's continue this conversation, but you're not allowed to use the word opinion. Let's see what they do instead
Because uh, it would be interesting to see how they try and
What would they would substitute opinion for just to see how it works out
So chat is saying that aden
outlived jay
outslept
At first I didn't like and sees the wall
But then I read some hygel and applied some reader response theory now. I fully understand the deeper memes. Sorry themes. I
I get it. I do. It's just that the thing with
Nostalgia critics the wall is when I finished it. I was like bewildered, but then I just looked into it. Yeah
I was like, yeah, we just like looked at the script and what was being said and we're like, oh some of this is
I empathize with the feeling of what
I get it. What like what the fuck was that?
but
Um, I was curious. I was like, what are the lyrics? I was like, oh, these lyrics are interesting. That's all
Um, if you if people look into the lyrics and still find it nonsense fair enough, I would just recommend check out the lyrics
they're all listed on like the
Animal awesome website, I think so
Have a look if you'd like
Um
All right, the the wall has always been a favorite of mine. It's great to see you talk
You all talk about music some more especially with concept albums slice and dice everybody
I mean, we didn't really talk about the music as much as you may have wanted us to but you know
We basically didn't talk about the music pretty much at all because we just don't I don't know about reviewing music
I'm not a music guy. I'm not a musician. I don't really know enough about
Instruments and putting them together and stuff like that. So pretty much reserved my judgment on that one
Yeah, i'm not someone who typically judges music because I don't know enough about it, uh to be able to make
certain claims
Um, but I can say I enjoy the music of the wall and in terms of nostalgia critics the wall
I guess i'd have to listen to it some more to define which ones I like and don't like and maybe what reasons I have
for each of those
um, because the wall itself from uh
The pink floyd has been around for a very long time so I can further articulate it
You know, it's this whole thing and I think all I wanted from this stream was that we address it
Because I know a lot of people
Wanted us to and i'm like we did it. There we go. We've addressed it
Hopefully to the degree of people wanted us to we don't have the perspective
I think most of us most people expected us to but that's okay
Uh j, are you going to upload soon?
Okay, jay say something yeah, what the fuck yeah jay hey jay
What wait jay jay's not here
Jay's got aden's still here with us. Aiden's lasted long. She's funny though
This is the second super chat that said so the first one says jay gonna upload soon and the second one says
because you shouldn't
It's okay jay you don't need to answer the question I think the super chatter is is is okay the way that
It started and just its own conversation
Uh mules lee not related to this stream tonal uses a lot of accounting language in his videos
A few ephaps ago rags remarks
A few ephaps ago rags remarked at tonal's odd use of the word materially
Which in accounting lingo means financially significant
Oh, okay, so I was right
Yeah, that's odd, but I didn't know that but he didn't he did have like an economics degree didn't he or something like that
I'm pretty sure he does and he said that that's what he was doing before he became youtube
And then he's he's going back to it as a result of youtube not being profitable enough, which
tonal'd please
Like we need more of your juice. We need more of your your your sustenance. I love being sweet sweet gender fluid. I need it
I feel like you got that from the t-shirt stream. Is that what you're referencing with that gender fluid?
No, I got it from I I I got her from a bro team stream a long time
Really because you there's a character. There was a character and then the guy was like, uh, looks she fell into
Uh, there's like looks like she's been dipped in gender fluid
Really because I don't know that reference
but if you remember I don't know if you remember this is very this is this is distant for you and it's super distant for
efap memes, but
Before we did the stream with metal or during
I was linked
Did you remember the linked picture of somebody pulling out the ethernet cable and there was water coming out of it?
Do you remember that? Yeah, and so uh, so we have that and then during the the stream
people someone mentions, uh, that the
Someone was like doing like a sexy dance. Let's just put it that way
And I think fortia said that's money and then you said no that's gender fluid
And then I say is that what was coming out of the ethernet cable gender fluid?
Somehow you could reach these jokes. I remember it. I remember that with completely alternate directions and paths. It's wonderful the world
Related but also well, it does have the word fluid in it. I'm sure there's a lot of people out
true
been like eight
Uh rags doesn't like lady in the lamp because it doesn't represent shibes
Is it shibes or sheebs?
shibes
Uh superior dog race. Yeah, that's true. They're not they're not in the trailer. They're probably not in the film
That is offensive disgusting to say that is offensive personally. I object i'm offended
Have aden and jay tell us how to support them if they're still on when they read this
uh, so jay's channel a jay xe can be found by typing in j a y
ex c i
You'll find him he's linked in the description of this video
If he's not I will sort that out on the moolah channel and aden is definitely linked
You can find her on on on aden paladin a y d i n
p a
l a
d i n
That is find them through there and then they will have different links on how to support them
uh patreon and
possibly other things
Also, hello mauler and rags. Hello
Hey
Hope you all have a nice have a great week. Wow a great week. That's better than a nice week. Thank you very much
Mauler, I love you. Here's 25 for you to buy avatar the last airbender
Oh the complete series. Sorry. That's not not the the shama lama lama lama
Yes, i'm gonna i'm going to watch it too many people keep telling me to and wolf wants me to watch it
I'm gonna get to it
Uh jay watch lord of the rings. He's not gonna do that. I don't know what
What do you think the motivation behind jay not watching it is rags what's going on there?
uh
Life life itself is preventing him because maybe all we have to do is threaten his life and maybe he'll do it
Do you think that'll be enough?
I hope so
I think that if he watches it it will stop the memes of him not having watched it and it'll make him upset
It's possible, I don't know
Who knows what would who knows what would convince jay. It's it's pretty hard to know
um
You'll get there one day aden. You're amazing. Also high rags
Hey
Hashtag the dawn stands with mick vick manana
That i'm sure you may very well do. I don't you know, I believe it
gush of celestial apex
Apex
All this super chat says is get sargod on
gonna happen i'm thinking but what do you think about this the idea of sargon and and um
Uh arch wall hammer in the same episode those two double guests what about that?
Yeah, they probably go well together. Yeah, I feel like they go well together play a lot of killing flow with them
I feel like I I know that they go well together now
Yeah, I think so
Uh quinton is a meme. So the order is irrelevant
I'm not sure exactly what that's referencing, but I don't disagree with it
Quinton is a meme
You probably haven't seen it yet, but I made a doogle gawk do google doc
cataloging
The origins of e-fap memes wip to share the glowy
I'm not reading that it says glow
Share the glowy
Share the glowy of the dark
Share the glowy
Now off to drink more rhino milk to cure my flu. Well, thank you for cataloging the e-fap memes
I have to say in my experience has never been more confusing
E-fap law, sorry meme law
Sorry meme law
like the glowy
May the eye may the glowy be with you may the glowy be with you
All plump rumps in a row daddy's gonna have fun tonight
And then there's the uwu and the the the pointing finger and the okay symbol in blind intercourse
my goodness
Uh pyrocynical just made a film review about the film cube and its crap sequel from how he described it
I don't know how i'm just now hearing about it. I've seen um, both the cube and the cube sequel
The baller what I need you to
I need you to go
What what's happening go to the guests of e-fap on the e-fap here. I'll I'll send you a picture
I'll send you a picture here. This is amazing. So we just sent this to me
So it just said this
What am I looking at here
It's this cannot whistle on on jay's bitch
But
I still it's weird. I still remember the day. I learned how to whistle
I was doing a long car drive and I heard my dad whistling
I was like, can you tell me how to do that? And he told me how to do it and i've known since
Do you remember when you were taught how to whistle ranks or is it sort of a thing?
I don't think I was taught. I just sort of found out I think and I was always a really
When I was young like really good whistler
This is the thing i'm I can whistle but I can't whistle like
Pro whistlers like some people can whistle like crazy. You can't you you're you're just like, uh, you're a casual
Whistler one of them normie whistlers, but i'm it's better to be that than to be a not whistler
Also, yeah, i've seen cube and cube two I like cube cube two is weird as fuck
It's like super abstract and tism. I give up on it. I haven't seen cube i've heard of it. It's um, do you know what it is?
Yeah, I know like kind of it's like well in case you don't it's
A bunch of people wake up inside a room and they're like what the fuck and it's like a series of rooms inside a cube
That all have a different sort of requirement to move on to the next room
And it's like I think it's r-rated. I want to say that for like people can yeah, i've seen like one or two little
Bits here and there and it's in it looks interesting
Are you guys aware of the 80s
slash 90s american hip-hop artist tone loke I figured tonald's name must be inspired by him
total meme potential here
I'm not honestly i'm not i'm not aware of tone loke
the
the american hip-hop artist
Let's hope that he is able to make videos long into the future and that he doesn't go tonald
Yeah, I agree with that
Explain your superpower of stopping people liking stuff
This is from governments greeting my and may dark forces become confused on the way to your house rags
Oh dark forces heading towards rags house get confused I can see that
But yeah, we do have a superpower we say stuff and then people's feelings are removed from them
I can't believe it's a thing we have but it's totally a thing we have according to our critics
Uh, you mentioned justifying objective criteria using an argument crossing the fact value distinction
But most philosophers outside of post-modernism tend to frown on frown on this
Are there those who have written on it that you agree with so I wouldn't reference a philosopher
But when yeah, because we don't like read and know
Ah, this is a alien. Ah, this is decart. Ah, this is you know, it's like just tell us the concept
So as I brought up before
The is versus the ought a lot of people bring up
But let's just say and I always use this as a reference
You can use a couple of different crafts to to make this simpler for people
But the dovetail joint is a dovetail joint and there's many degrees in which you cannot be
What I mean by that is when you create something that's fucked up on the angle that's integrity is failing
There's lots of things and you could you let's just say you have a pile of dust
And what I mean by that is like wooden dust or whatever you call it like chippings to the point with it atoms
Just just dust and someone's like wow
That's literally the complete opposite of what I was asking for like the degree to which your item or object or entity here
Is a dovetail joint is literally as far away from it as possible
Okay
So that's you could you call that a zero on the scale
And then the degree to which one is perfect in terms of angle and structure and integrity is 100 on the scale
And so everything in between as much as anything below 100 is technically
What you could call not a dovetail joint
It would still be important to to distinguish the difference and so when you transpose that to storytelling
When you have a film that has one plot hole just one
That gets in the way of some stuff and I think we went over this in the lord of rings stuff
There's a couple of small issues not what I would call plot holes
Just a couple small issues like wolf was bringing them up more than me and rags were
Of like issues that totally exist
Is very small stuff that could only at most provide bumps in what you may call the plot line
And then you compare to tlj which has a billion plot holes. It's just everywhere so many problems that completely disrupt
The line itself and so do we say
That a story is either complete or incomplete
and if it's incomplete then the lord the rings and
The last jedi fall on the same category. That doesn't seem right
Does it because one of them is a disaster and one of them has tried very hard to nail almost everything and nearly got there
So the scale is created naturally
By the degree to which it achieves being the thing that it is
And so you have the question of is an aught
Ignore the aught and the degree to which it is creates the scale and thus the aught as crazy as that sounds
And no, I don't have a philosopher to reference for that. It's just how I believe we typically
talk about these things because
If it's not binary for me rags and wolf if a film has a plot hole
It doesn't thus enter into a group of as plot holes versus has no plot holes
There's got to be more more groups than two
Hopefully that explains that so saw mauler's joke battle profile in efap 22 and wanted to check it out in depth
It's been updated now. The long man has about eight lines of powers and can destroy universes
All right
That's how that works also. Hi rags. Hey
Uh, this one just says mihai cheek sent mihai. Hi rags
Hey
Ij kick rags. I don't know got that backwards
We got to change that
Uh
My first time getting to efap along with y'all live have any of y'all played or intend to play code vein
So all I know is that I heard it made the game journals upset. So I kind of want to play it
Apparently it's a souls like game as in it's kind of like dark souls or inspired by and that makes me want to check it
Out. I will maybe get there one day, but I haven't yet
Uh, the reason there's no beautiful rags art is because your beauty cannot be replicated
Oh, that is a nice thing to say and it says also hi aden
Hi, oh she there she was she she yeah, she said hi
On the uh, the star on massive j in his steven universe t-shirt. Hope you're glad you enjoyed it
Oh, so the the star was in relation to steven universe in the the massive image if you if you remember j was like
Why do I have a star?
He's a jew he's he's a massive jew
Whether we wanted it or not. We've stepped into a war with the cabal on mars
So let's get on taking down their command one by one
That's right. They don't exist yet
Once they do that's when the war starts. Okay
Great martian theocracy
Thoughts on one punch man season two. Love you guys. I've not seen it all yet. I only saw episode one
I really liked it. So
I will get there
My problem is consuming lots of different media including the last day bender, which very very many people are very very many
Obsessed with very many me seeing it. Yes
Heard it's very good. Please say ooh woo in your seductive critic voice mauler
I don't know who that's as far as I know. Come on, you can be better
I'm not I don't have to i'm not i'm not a clown
I am not to be put upon you are a clown and you will dance for these people's amusement. You will dance
No dance. I did it. I did it twice. I I already I give up
It says also by j you apex homosexual. He's not here. He cannot experience such criticisms
slash compliments
I did it. I did it. I that's I feel bad
If ever you want to break some bread with I hate everything invite him to efap
Doug walker's eighth circle of hell level of cringe review of pink flights the wall
Feel like this person came in after the wall conversation had ended
Sweet hopped in before the video
Yeah, the I think this is the longest intro we ever had wasn't it like nearly two hours before we actually talked about the video
Yeah, we had a we had a very long beginning
Uh mola, what are your current projects?
so, uh lots of efap stuff which you'll see over the weeks being put out and then um
Lots of well a main project that i'll be working on soon, but we got uh, dark fate is coming out in under a month
I'm almost certain i'll want to make a video on that when I go watch it because it's going to annoy me
the to the depths of hell
Depths of heaven because heaven has depths as well
Um
All right
Mola, oh, sorry. What do you think of man of madan?
It's from the creators of until dawn, but not exclusively this time. It's much shorter and would make a good video
I've not played it and I plan to play it once metal commander comes to visit my humble home
Uh, so it'll be streamed on halloween is the plan
probably have
A happy ghost in the corner. It won't be a defap gaming. I don't imagine but
It'll be uh, it'll be a we're playing this for the funsies
The creator of aluminium foil is why americans say it wrong. He misspelled aluminium on the packaging but spelled it correctly on the patent
I honestly, I had no idea. So he's the reason why we say it correctly. All right
And he's why americans say it wrong. I'm not that's what the that's what the super chat said rags
I'm not saying it myself. I would never go that far
Yeah, because because all I have to say to that is do you think we fought a war in?
770 listen to some bunch of english people when you have a proper american inventor who
Came up with uh, even better way to say it
That's what I thought
Origins page up on website for all you massives origins page origins
I guess that's where like the origins of the memes
Well, there is a oh you got okay, so it's alphabetical
So the origins of apex homosexual arguably artificial barrier blockage bigidious bilbo baguins black skull on wheels
Blessed pipeman cosmic chicken daddled. It's it's all here
And I imagine it's being expanded as time goes on
That's impressive
It's undeniably that's wonderful. Thank you very much
Uh, hi mauler. Love your outlast review. I find it to be your most underrated review any chance you would do an outlast two review
I've been told by many people that I should do an outlast two review if ever it happens
It's going to be a long time from now
I made the outlast review because I was getting frustrated at all the people telling me that if I liked soma
I would like outlast I was like no
Outlast isn't very good
And I will talk about why and I did and then people were like but outlast two is out
You should do that too. And I was like, oh, well, I mean, I don't I mean, I mean if you liked
If soma you'll like outlast two mauler. No
Uh, but it's not impossible. I could totally see myself doing that one day
But there's a lot of things I could see myself doing one day. So so maybe in the future. I don't know for sure
Um, I don't know if you have enough to discuss mechanically compared to outlast one. Maybe a comparison
Oh, yeah, whatever outlast two offers. I'm sure I could fit into a video. I just um
I'm, not sure if it'll happen
in within the time frame
Think of this way the closer it is to a movie the more familiar territory it will be true
True
If you liked shoddy cast storyteller series another youtuber got the rights to continue with it on his channel
Tks mantis he has some previews. Am I shilling? Yes only because I want to see the series continue
I have no idea what shoddy cast storyteller series is but um, yeah, I don't know about that
Apparently it continued on tks mantis's channel. Anybody who's curious. That's where you can find it
The last part was meant as a joke the part where it says he's shilling
Again, I don't know what it is. So all right
Uh boo
The super channel just says boo
Trump's land to me there trump planned kickassia to happen. So kickassia. I believe is the first
Animal awesome movie it's about
A critic purchasing a house that's on a piece of land that technically isn't in america
But it's you know, I mean like it's a house in america, but it's legally not american. So you can pull it whatever you want. I think
Oh
So that's the first attempt at a movie. So yeah, good. I'm sure it's available. Um, hi rass
sass gaggles
Hello
I assume that's right. That's less gaggles is rass. That's less gaggles. That is me. That's my uh
My friend jake's birthday was recently please say happy birthday with my thigh meat on top
Happy birthday with my thigh meat on top, please try to find gaming cringe like dark souls essays
Uh, well, you know, we're doing our best we we come across it's mainly films, but we do cover gaming sillies as well
It does happen
as well
And looks like this is when rah joined the stream. He said oh, thank god efap is here
I was about to make a whole new e uh twitter account
To rag on you to do a stream because I was losing it. Thank god
I'm, glad we provide you
Uh, uh sustenance in in one form of the word
We live to please rah
He is the sun god
Um
Aiden seems really cool. You should do an efap with aiden
Yeah, aiden
Yeah, aiden is really cool. Yeah, oh, sorry it's one of our one of our good guests
It says you should do an efap with aiden at star wars girl in jay long bone
We do. Yeah, I think that could happen. I I want to call it you get to look at women. That's it
I just want to I just want to go for that
Um, nobody hates star wars more than star wars fans. There it is
We did we did talk about that. It's an interesting
Quote because I don't understand how it wouldn't be that way
Uh, I chose the side that takes away women's rights
We got we got we got like on this page alone is seven rah superchats
Oh my goodness, yep. Oh rah laugh my ass off
Saying you should do femoid only efap if that ever happens i'll send in 70 fewer superchats
I mean, it wouldn't be possible to do to a female only because me and ryan wouldn't it be you'd send in 30 percent less
So that they get only 70 percent of what it would normally be maths is hard as we've established the stream ranks
How could you say?
Uh, look at pro jared. No. Thanks. I like my eyes unburned
All right
We're all nasty racists and sexists speak for yourself rags. I'm not a nasty racist. I'm a beautiful six foot three persian racist
All right
He is a big persian man. Hey massives. I was the one who cleaned my records last stream
It was due to bed bugs all clean now. No bugs. Have a good stream. Love y'all. Oh, very good
Yeah, can't write a bed bug big deal. So we can we can also glad it wasn't a new efap does not approve of
Bed bugs. We think bad
We said bed bugs are bad. Yeah bad
I hope like it's with aden is like good night sleep tight and don't let the bed bugs bite
Yeah, there's a reason that phrase exists. Right? We say it for a reason. It's important
Don't fuck don't fuck up and that's bad
Uh
Winton's ben shapiro take is literally the only correct thing that lard bucket has ever said
I only I mean libertarians aren't human
Ra does not think libertarians are human. Okay. All right
rip
Hey aden glad to see you on efap mola needs to do avn next
Avn who's that angry video?
Any angry video game nerd. Yeah, there's no game. I think most people say avgn, but I guess avian is too right avian works
I'm assuming it's not that but we'll find out where chad is probably gonna tell me what avian actually stands for
A movie starring alex jones and ben shapiro with quinton as the antagonist. What should the title be?
um
That point is armageddon
Armageddon just the end times are upon us brothers
Uh, I I would happily go with a couple of different movie names, but I can tell you for sure i'd watch it
No, i'd watch it i'd be there alex jones and ben shapiro working to subvert quinton. Yes, that's that's happened
Quinton would just explode. Uh a couple people are guessing avn means adult video news
Oh, yeah, let's do that. I don't I don't even know if that's the thing on youtube, but sure adult videos are like
what mechanic instruction manuals or
Like c-span reruns. Well, I don't what would an adult video? Yeah, I don't I don't quite understand. Uh
Should romanceable characters in rpgs like mass effect be player sexual
Wherein their sexuality is dependent on the player's character gender meaning they can be romanced by anybody
Um
Yeah, I don't have a problem with that. I have i'd have to think about it more, but I don't think that's an issue
Sure. Yeah
Like if basically if every character is bisexual just for a bit of player freedom. Yeah, i'm fine with that idea
Yeah, uh
Where are we?
Uh mola, have you seen the latest leaks for episode nine kylo being visited by han instead of anakin and then dying like a bitch
Because luke and leah don't care enough to show up and save him like they do for ray
Honestly
The leaks I have to read out. I don't even think they have that in them
And that's kind of why I want to read them out so that we can address
Those ones even though those ones might not even be real just because
I do want to be surprised
If i'm honest, but I also like the idea of speculating and talking about how stupid some of the leaks are
It's fun
Yeah, well if you read a bunch of leaks at once and you don't know which one which and happens to be one of them
It's like well, you'll still be surprised because yeah
Well in your head you'll be going. Oh this could happen or this could happen. I don't know exactly what which leaks are correct
That's the the take
Uh, I don't know. Did y'all see jeremy john's video? All right. Did you did you see it ranks?
I have not no he made a video
basically saying
that
Tied to the fact that george lucas is feels betrayed by disney
But it's a disaster
It's all a disaster that disney have fucked it all up and it kind of makes sense that that george is so upset
And I was just like man
And people are looking at it
Like a moment with jeremy john's has just come over to the toxic brood slash the phantom menace good
Like now we're done. We're fucked over episode nine. It's gonna be terrible. It's like yeah
Yeah in a different way, but yeah
Uh, but yes, I did see it and I thought it was quite interesting and in fairness to jeremy john's
I don't want to say this is like this first moment or anything
He did make that video about how the first order suck
So I think
He's he's always been on the side of things being kind of sucky
With the disney star wars films. It's just taking him some time
Well, you know what sucks is in that video. He shows a clip of him watching the trailer if it's force awakens
He's like man, I was so full of hope that it's like yeah
You looked back and you're like yeah join the club mate. Yeah
Uh
You are not alone
100 people on the millennium falcon and 10 times as many in jay's mum ha ha got him. Oh shit
Uh, give my gypsy shekels to aiden blocks. Also. Hi aiden. Don't you leave me?
Don't you leave before morda morda reads this out. She's here. Aidan. What do you think about that? She's here. She has it left
See, I think that's very interesting aiden bring up a very good point
I agree. Yeah, I never thought of it that way. But now that you mention it. I see where you're coming from
Why are you here aiden? I appreciate that. That's fair enough
Thoughts on south park since 2014. I don't like them
Um, all I have to say on south park is that they tried that one season
Where they made everything serialized and when I say serialized like the a storyline that travels through
As much as it has its own stories
It's trying to do a season full bringy would be better on this because I dropped out of south park before this happened
But I know that it happened and a lot of people cite it as the death of south park while south park is still going
so it's
Complicated to say the least but do you know about this rags metaphorical death maybe they had
A character representing trump and a character representing hillary
In this case hillary represented hillary and mr
garrison represented trump and they'd written the episode ahead of time that hillary was going to win
And the they had a storyline for that and then trump won and they were like fuck
And they had to change it
A lot of people felt that they'd fucked the season because the writing didn't make any sense anymore
A lot of things that were set up didn't pay off etc
and um people blamed that
As part of what killed south park, but they survived in terms of plenty people watched the later seasons. So
Um, I was never really into south park. I caught an episode here
I never really got into it. I've seen some funny stuff. I've seen some that's just me
Um, I see why people like it though some really good jokes. This is the thing. I need to catch up on it
I'm not gonna have a good answer, but I know that uh fringy would fringy would be the guy you want to ask for that
Because he's much more into it than I am. I I fell out of south park
Around about a year after trump got elected and it wasn't because of trump or anything
It's just that I just fell out. I stopped keeping up keeping up to date
um
But but I probably should
uh
maula about a turn into a money launderer
I don't think so. I mean
Look, the reason superchats take a while is because whenever I read one out
I want to make sure that I answer it in terms of what it's asking
But if someone let's say someone superchatted for a billion dollars
Hello rags
You just you just be like bet your ass i'm saying hello. Yeah, but but if someone superchatted one dollar and says what's your opinion on?
The new rambo
I'd be like, okay, and this I could go on to that for like five minutes. It's not necessarily about
The money it's more about making sure these questions get their answers. And so sometimes it can take longer
Sometimes it doesn't it depends on what's said really
Um, just gotta make sure we get to everything
Uh efficiently, I suppose we do try we do try
Uh, i'm not sure how anyone polls failure is the greatest teacher as tlj's theme given that the main character ray never actually fails at anything
Uh, so again as of exploring so many videos that tell you how good tlj is
They will argue that her failure is believing in kylo ren
Failure was to think is having too pure a heart. Yeah, her failure is to think that he was a good person and she was naive
And it's just like oh
And it's the thing when you when you're dealing with a character who's a god-like
Paragon
The only flaw they can have is as a result of being too good
And it's just awkward
Mark hamill talking about his character discuss joseph campbell and the legacy of greek stories daisy ridley talking about her character
Aha, he he she put the dildo in her veggie
stupid talentless come brain hole
That reference
I have no idea. I think aden brought up the whole um joseph campbell legend of greek stories, but
Okay, so if i'm assuming ra's taking a shot at aden, maybe I don't know but what is aden supposed to do with daisy ridley's character of ray
What do you imagine she's going to do with that? Oh, maybe daisy ridley in her interview
Maybe yeah
Um, yeah, maybe you're saying he was comparing daisy ridley talking character talking about his
regardless
There's the conversation almost ends the second you talk about ray. You're like, oh well
She's a character. Um
We did it there we go moving on to the next one
Yeah
Just a reminder that quentin is an actual admitted anarcho-communist. He is physically incapable of having a correct take on anything
He is an anarcho-communist. Is that something he said or
Yeah, I honestly like really that doesn't shock me. It's just like okay
Uh, it's about time aden showed up also. Hi rags
Hey
Yeah, she did show up indeed. She's currently having a little snooze, but that's you know, it's fine. We we welcome those on efap
For some snooze here and there a little rest some odd reason fire is considered to be hot
Relatively it's not hot compared to the sun now, is it?
Yeah
Fucking idiots thinking fire is hot the caveman. I don't know shit. You're stupid. You're stupid first rags
Then jay longbone that star wars girl and now aiden paladin. Are you trying to start an anime harem molar?
In i'm gonna say that hey, I can always i'll take more of the hair
Yeah, rags can share. We'll have half and half. Why do you have to make it all about me?
Yes rags blew himself up with a grenade launcher in in alien saloon marines
Well, that doesn't remove what about it from being able to have a harem. Come on
Just because the game was retarded enough to have f not be your flashlight, but instead be your grenade launcher
Agreed
Uh, it's okay molar. I feel your pain
I was so pissed off by season eight episode three that I had trouble being productive at work
It was I was absolutely livid. Yeah, that was me. I still remember wolf was like
What do you think of that episode and I was silent for a while and then I was like
Okay, let me let me go through this and I said that my biggest issue was I kind of think they destroyed everything by having
The white walkers be destroyed well before the end of the show, which was kind of where the show I thought was going
But uh, what do I think of it? Oh, I just think they destroyed everything
Yeah, which is this is the kind of thing where you sort of you say that and then you're like, man
You'd probably be angrier, but i'm
My emotions haven't reached me. You're just empty
Yeah, it's the one time that the mind is ahead of the heart almost the heart is sitting there like
What just happened? The mind is like, oh, let me explain you've just been murdered and the heart is like what?
You've just been killed. This is what it's like, but there's nothing after this is like
Uh rags is canceled. I don't know what you must have said something that upset ra
I agree with jay for once
Uh re what he said about the indulgent visuals
Oh, yeah, fair enough
Also, if I remember correctly you guys said once that juju scenes looked like mortal combat
Juju, uh, so that's the reference to jj and again, that would be tfa. We were talking about tlj though
Yeah, um
Like mortal combat
I think I think there's an argument for some scenes for sure
I'm, just not sure which ones I'd referred to is that if I did combat. Yeah, maybe
Uh, the movie mortal engines costed dr. Evil voice
100 billion dollars
Well, didn't someone it looks really expensive. That's the thing. It looks very expensive and it did not make it
Uh
Stages I feel like he saw that tony tony zow
Guys cura sour video and got fixated on the bit about cura sour
Using weather to externalize conflict
Very well, maybe
A lot of a lot of creators will use the weather to accentuate
Uh tide pod goes in tide pod comes out. You can't explain that come on, dude
It's not as complicated as man. Wait, if you ate a tide pod hole
Then wouldn't just poop it out because it's in like a little plastic thing. I guess they take it out of the plastic
Also, I missed the reference. Wait
I don't I don't think so because
If you're supposed to put it in yeah, right
Do you like your washing machine?
Well, then surely if it breaks up in the washing machine, will it break up inside your you know, your intestines and stuff?
Yeah, but that's the bad part right that it breaks up in your intestine. Yeah, that's bad
The bad I don't know someone
Someone who's an expert needing tide pods. Can you get back to me someone expert in tide pods just
Contact us at efap.com
Uh, I fucking hate quinton. Does he ever think for some reason it's become a meme to ask why
Five israeli moused agents were dancing on a rooftop and filming the twin towers across the hudson on september 11th
I don't think quinton was talking about that, but I think you were talking about that rah, I guess that much
Uh, yo efappers red letter media had a great movie recommendation tomahawk bonesaw with
Um
No, it wait is that what it's called
Bone tomahawk. That's what the film's called. Not tomahawk bonesaw
Uh bone tomahawk with kurt russell. It's really great acting is amazing. Have you seen that rags?
I have not but i'd be interested. I watched it because of the recommendation that film has one of the most
Goriest moments i've seen ever and it made me go whoa
Oh, I don't do gore really. Um, it's not much in the film as a whole
But there is that moment and I did enjoy it. It's it's a movie
For the most part. It's a it's one of them westerns with them cowboys and they're shooting. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Uh, when we're gonna get a wally unbridled praise and ironically that will happen eventually. I really do like wally
I can't promise when it'll happen
Smaller I recommended you when seagulls cry it's a vn about murder mystery antagonist wants to explain murders with magic
Mc counters it with logic fighting plot holes anime vision is bad though
That kind of sounds like the um the sherlock holmes movie with robert jr
The bad guy in that is killing everybody with quote unquote magic and then at the end of the film robert jr explains
How each of the the things are done with not magic?
Uh, yeah, I liked it was good shit, but that sounds kind of similar. All right
I'm gonna beat quinton to death with his own limbs while yelling anger leads to hate in yoda's voice
Ra ra got stopped from sending superchairs at some point and I can't imagine why
Yeah, it's just I just
None's coming to mind
Uh, maybe quinton's being so ironic. He seems unironic
Uh, I think he's genuine
Quinton's a kind of an idiot. I mean a good person. Yeah, he's kind of dumb. So yeah
Someone needs to make a clips compilation of the famoid laughing at quinton and send it to him
instant suicide guaranteed
oh, so suicide suicide not
weirdly because of
Do it
Are you referring to entrepoints as famoid or you
Oh, I have to decipher all these superchairs very progressive view to call her famoid
What's viscous chunky white
Somewhat salty and was dripping all over my body last night the answer ranch
All right ranch, why did you have I had even more questions now
Yeah, that's weirder than the thing that we were all expecting ranch dressing
I'm assuming is what you're referring to and why would you have that all over you?
Have some standards happy huntings you massive
I don't think you need to know about the world's wars to enjoy star wars a friend showed me the originals on vhs
Well before I'd learned about everything jews have done and I still enjoyed the films
That's raw again
Uh
Space whales are literally cannon in star wars
Well, um when we were joking about the space whales being in a body of water in the middle of space
You can understand how we weren't referring to anything that's been made previously in the star wars films, right?
Something in the eu books slash games slash media is probably going to be a bit different from what we were talking about
But I understand
Uh space whales are actually cannon in star wars you guys they're in the time travel dimension at the end of star wars rebels
Oh, no, yeah, I don't think that helps
Space whales in the time travel dimension. It makes me think that was actually a joke
We're gonna go ahead and just say like okay back away slowly that's what we'll do
Uh, and then there's just a super chat that says whale wizards
All right
There's a certain certain lack of creativity that has come with dot dot dot any sentence starting with that phrase is worthless
Unless it ends with hiring women
Oh, that's raw again
I think that you can you see there's a there's a theme with raw and i'm appreciating it
I'm noticing without even necessarily reading it anymore
I think that people who are listening could probably pick it up
I vote for aden being our new queen of efab. She is logical and has objectively the best laugh. Welcome to the toxic brood
Anybody who guess is a part of the toxic brood whether or not they want to be it's it's
It's like a membership does not require your consent. Yep, just on them
They run away and it just it's like the uh, what do you call it the symbiote in spider-man 3?
They're like screaming and slowly covering them they're like
This is happening you can't do nothing about it
Uh quinton keeps popping up in my recommended despite never watching a video from him. What the fuck youtube
Maybe it's the fact that we covered him
maybe
YouTube's weird with that
Hi aden good day aden say hi
Hey
Hello
uh, also hi rags
Hey also goodbye j
View the lord of the rigs he'll did one day
Uh mark hamill just turned to the douche side of the force check out his twitter. We did
Yeah pointing that was a shitty tweet and he should feel pretty bad about that
I love how I can work a 10-hour shift and still be able to watch efab live also hi rags and aden
Oh, hello, hello
At this point quinton should just spare himself the shame and off himself, oh my goodness jeez
I don't know about that. And what the fuck you censor my super chats youtube i'm giving you money our words
our words
Is it m words that was that was from lieutenant colonel tanya von
That's not even raw you would have assumed that was raw wouldn't you?
I would have
Been reasoning the existence of the tracker isn't a plot hole. The plot hole is them having a detailed blueprint of the supremacy
I still stand by the fact that him saying that he's aware of it while simultaneously not being aware of it is a plot hole
them also having a blueprint of the supremacy is
uh weird
Looks pretty detailed. I'm not sure how I feel about that. Should should everybody have
Access to blueprints of technology. That's one of a kind. I don't know. That's a good question
Seriously though, I hate people who hand wave logistics
I can enjoy interstellar and the dark knight rises because i'm not as autistic as mauler
But logistics mattering is always better. It's why I went from loving animu like attack on titan
And it's a full stop. I thought you were gonna say loving to something else
The focus on logistics makes animu kino also the fasci themes
How do you enjoy interstellar and the dark knight rises while being a fan of logistics rah explain to me
That's that's a contradiction right there. I'm calling you out. Oh, I've called you out
Just got here quinton taking shots at midichlorians. It's go time
I mean all he said was that people didn't care about it, which is the one thing you can't say about midichlorious
You're kind of screwed up
Yeah, they did
Yo mauler, what's your favorite monster slash monsters in monster hunter?
Tigrex
And the only reason it's my favorite is because once me and my friend who played a lot of monster hunter united on psp
Found out that once you get the full tigrex armor you get like a huge boost to the consumables speed
We were like we have to get it and we did get it eventually and it was great
The tigrex armor was really good
Um up until a certain level
Yeah, then it kind of turned into something I kept hunting for and eventually something I enjoyed hunting a lot and
It's kind of a cool monster. So
Yeah, that's uh, that's my story
Also just in case this argument comes up
Technology in star wars has been stagnant for at least 4k years and you want us to believe that not once did someone think
What if I ram them at light speed?
Yeah, that's bullshit. Yeah, that's that's an argument they try every once in a while they're like
What if this is the first time someone thought this and you're like, no
Just no, no, no, there is no fucking way
No, but like, you know what? Like naval war
Used to be about ramming into everyone else. Like that's one of the first things that people ever think about
I was like, what are we just fucking random?
What if we design specifically designed like our warships to be about ramming?
It's unbelievable to me that it's like what are you humans?
Slamming a rock against an animal. That's like something we tried back in the first time. We tried anything
Slamming a thing into a thing. Yeah, we would have tried that
That's it's one of our basic attempts. It's like the idea that everybody didn't is ridiculous, but sure fine
Favorite buffy slash angel episodes buffy would probably be once more feeling angel would probably be
Not fade away
Person they know what i'm talking
Just popped in. Love you guys. Also. Hi rah maula. Hello
How about that
They should have hired high tommy tanaka if they wanted to
If they wanted to asians for the sake of having asians
Fair enough i'm not sure who that is. Jar Jar is more realistic of a character than rose
Yeah
I believe that I think it makes more sense
strange stigma against hiring asians back in 1940s, maybe
Like I said when we were talking about it. I feel like unless you've got a very specific example
It's pretty hard to prove that people don't want to hire asians because they don't like asians. It's like really
I I just naturally assume that a lot of directors slash casting directors are dealing with a lot of people who are acting
And if they have 10 people and seven of them are white one of them is black one of them is asian
One of them is I don't know if I can russian
Uh, typically speaking you'll end up with one of the seven and it just seems to be more of a demographic of what's in
America that could totally explain all of it
At the same time name a bunch of races and then say russian. I don't fucking know man. I'm kind of still drunk
I'm still drinking weird. Oh black a bunch of white guys black dude and asian. Well, hang on russian is asian
Is russian is a nationality still asia the russians are white
asia
Almost no, it's like a year ago. Michael is russian not white. No russian is pale
Completely, no russian is russian is asian. Noble
completely different, uh
Yeah, it's it's the kind of thing that can be explained by a lot of different things. It's really hard to prove
But if you had that detail if you have that email that said I hate you because you're x like well
Yeah, that guy's a dick
Fuck that guy. Don't don't don't be in his film. He's a peen. Don't trust that peen
Sometimes it's really hard to figure out which peen to trust but don't trust that peen. That's
Yeah, not all peens are created equal. I guarantee you that yep
There's difference in peen a follow-up question with at alien dinosaur hunter. What's your weapon of choice?
I
If that's directed at us, I would just go with whatever's the best suited for the scenario. That's my
I don't I don't know any of the master hunters. You don't have a weapon of choice rags really
Like I just in general
If I had to use any weapon like a medieval weapon
Like a like a medieval style or something like that fantasy weapon any weapon choice
I am a big fan of
swords and
halberds
Surely those are kind of ones that I've always in the modern era. Oh, yeah in a modern era
Yeah, you wait. I asked if you were meant like medieval stuff and you said sure well
Well
And if you mean like if you mean like a kind of gun
then I have an affinity for um
just
Rifles, you know, just just like what's your favorite rifle?
Is it is it the ar-15
It probably is yeah, i'd say i'd say it is yeah, it's just
So advantageous and excellent in so many ways it's just like the best it's just the best ar-15 is just the best
The m4 platform is just the most amazing thing and then to answer the question 100
Seriously, I hate because you're gonna be like, oh of course you say this
But this is the unironic answer. I'm sorry about this. Okay, my favorite weapon in monster hunter
Is the longsword
I'd make jokes long sword. Why is that a joke long sword?
It's a long but what's wrong, but why is that it why is it why is that something made fun of?
I don't get it. So they call me the long sword. It's a fine weapon. It's like, oh, what are the odds of?
Oh the long man. I get you. I like the long sword. I'm sorry. Okay
I like that's right
And we got what looks to be rose milk. It's kind of like i'm not sure what that emoji is
This is the problem when you post something milk, I gotta be like
I'll get that possibly right from there. Yeah, so rose emoji rose milk. What could that mean?
Oh, no, not a rose emoji. Oh like rose tiko or oh, that could be it. That could be it. Oh
Uh aden is top bay sans in smash bros. Hi jay
Yeah, that kind of primes
Yeah, but i'm sure you'd be happy to say good lord most of my favorite n words in one place
Hello wave's hand
Is dying
We're up to
11 plus three
14 hours
Just 10 more until 24 right
Yeah, just 10 more until 24
Making a t-shirt selling my girl aden on efap. Hi j
How did you say hi to jay when you could have said hi to aden?
Aidan, what do you think about that?
Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, that's fair enough
Disney star wars has no notable alien characters
I'm sure asian diversity is a thing to be concerned about in a galaxy far far away
I mean, yeah, you could have had like an alien that was voiced slash operated by an asian person, you know
Made them and they had mas canada. She's voiced by blackman
Black wahmen, I think you'll find not blackmen
I can't let that stand rags. That's a racism. Oh
Uh, I hate captain marvel because she could have been spider-man
Um
What a make of that right
She could have been asian she could have been spider-man, I don't know
Rose could have been spider-man captive marvel
Oh
I heard that captain
Have you heard this stuff about like rumors that brie larson is going to be involved in the mcu? You mean star wars, right?
Yeah, because of course she'll be involved as he usually already is
Well, oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah star wars star wars. Star wars. Um, all i've seen is that she dressed up as a jedi
And was like hey jedi cool
And people are like, oh my goodness
She's in the new star wars stuff and i'm like, are we got anything to go on yet?
And as far as i'm aware, we don't
but
I hate to say it guys
She was good in room
And she's not incapable of acting. I really feel like it's whoever's directing here. She's really annoying in real life
I will give you that there are a couple of people who are really not cool in real life while also good actors and so
If she was confirmed to be in star wars, that's not a confirmation of bad content
Who knows what'll happen?
I understand the grievances
Uh
You liked ukulele that means you racist
Uh checking out aden's channel, holy crap. She's a long woman. Yes
Why yourself a good long woman podcast works perfectly who wanted rose to be white
All of china
I thought china were like very much in favor of seeing more asian actors with nothing
Apparently not I think they just wanted to see a hot babe a hot white babe really
I know that they want to see like crazy cgi battles because they love trans
I'm just because chinese are fucking the worst thing in the universe. Yeah, they ruin it like china ruins everything
Sorry chinese just ruins. There's nothing they don't have an effect on in a bad way
They're just like, oh great. You're like things are better because china was never it's never been a thing
Like oh, this is so much better because of the chinese
That's on the list of things never said ever
Uh, if you talk to someone who brings up race every chance they get chances are you're talking to a racist also high rags
Hey, I think that makes enough sense in some way. You could definitely I'm sure rob will back me up on my chinese car
Not sure if aden or rags is the better waifu
How is that a discussion? I i'm sorry rags obviously me, but she gives it a good gives it a good
Maybe the most competition you've had but still
Definitely me
Gonna make me earn my keep, you know keeps me on my toes
Uh, tlj fans are all sexually aroused by the slave children. I don't need evidence to support this claim
I just need to state it and it's apparently true
If you're going by video essay logic of defenses for tlj, then yes, you don't need to support your arguments
But yeah, don't worry about it
I doesn't mean the mean rags are going to approve of such an argument
We might present alternate evans and but I understand where you came from. I know how you constructed that I see it
I see the intricacies. I see what you are. I see what you are saying
uh admiral hodor
Our plan is to die and before we do we will light speed into snoke's ship sacrificing ourselves
Who is with me the asian hand rises?
Asian hand rises oh
Because of rose tea going well, but I mean most people seem to be on board with their plan outside of like five people
Who apparently you believe this I should have brought this up earlier
But if holdo told everybody and the only people she didn't tell ended up mutinying
Maybe she should have told him
Maybe she should have maybe she should have told somebody like poe pulls the pistol on it
And she sees this other full people like yeah, fuck you and then she's like wait
You guys don't know to tell everyone in fuck in the yeah, we're heading to crate
It's a secret planet where we've got coverage. They can't see us. Is that all good? Then they go? Oh
Oh, wow. So we're not gonna die. Okay. Sorry just
Yeah, that's pretty nobody told us how weird is that yeah, sorry about that. Sorry
I guess I sent out the message and I don't know. Did you guys not check your rebel email? Yeah
Oh shit, we must have forgot knowledge. He's a bit weird. You know, it can be it can be a bit of a dick
So it's understandable
Morla ask the spider if episode nine is good or not
The both of the spiders that I saw are both not in the positions they were so
There ain't no asking them anymore
The only thing worse than a spider is a mobile spider
Yeah, because you want to ask it. What's the plan? It's like i'm gonna crawl inside you and lay eggs and you're like
Oh, no, no, no, no, please. Oh, okay. You are dying right now. But if you can't even ask it that
Oh, no, what else could it be up to? You know, it doesn't even want to tell you that's how evil its plans are
Fucked up
Rose tico should be telling holdo war is not about killing the ones we hate but saving the ones we love
Holdo was so morally bankrupt. She didn't even care about the safety of the crew
Oh, wow
Yeah, man. I want to see that scene where rose and holdo fucking have it out like fuck you
You know what you're doing. She's like, no, you don't you fucking do it. I'm an admiral
She's like well, i'm maybe i may be an engineer
But I have the heart of gold that you're missing
And there's this huge blowout and then fin is in the background like I have no fucking clue what's going on and that'll be great
I would watch
Like I should have stayed in the first order these people are nuts
These people are crazy bring alex jones back he's 1 000 times more entertaining than quinton
We don't we can't control that i'm sorry how much quinton may reference him is down to quinton, you know, I wish
I wish we were at the point where we could just command that quinton be uh
Removed from the screen alex jones be placed upon it, but it's not power we have
If it was we wouldn't be
doing podcasts
We'd be out conquering the world with that kind of power and then the sutra says spaghetti bolognese
Ah
I feel like nine could come out tomorrow an efap would still be
Have you boys heard that the last jedi is a bit terrible?
Honestly, well in our in our defense though
Have have you heard how fucking terrible the last jedi is because?
It is a stinker, man
Look, I
Like to not meme for a second. I think that we'll cover episode nine a bit
But tlj will be the more consistently covered one. It's the one that fucked everything up
Episode nine will be bad probably but
Episode nine man. I think it's gonna be shit. I just don't think they I don't think
First off it's not necessarily even about whether or not they have the capacity to make a really good star wars film
It's would they even recognize a good star wars film if they were?
No
You know, do you remember in fellowship of the ring?
Where baromir as he's grabbing at Frodo says what chance do you think you'll have?
I like to think of baromir as the chat and Frodo as episode nine. What chance do you think you'll have?
I don't know. I'm gonna try and if he falls through in the end then that's great
Yeah, but i'm just I just don't
I just don't think that will be the case
Baromir is gonna is gonna win out on that
Sorry, uh fin the ptsd suffering slave soldier who gets over it by murdering his fellow slave soldiers and buffooning around the galaxy
Well
Apparently not because he he has like that one moment
Then it was like in the moment if anything is just battle stress or combat stress or whatever
It's not really there's not a lot of post in it. Yeah. No, yeah, he's a clown. He's a fun clown
He's like he's he's like the person who they made to be the clown character is the last person
Who should be the clown character? Yeah
the ex-storm trooper
We've been trained to kill
Crap captured as a child. Crap
Craptured that's probably how they got him when he was on the the loo. Yeah
Um awesome character. Hi rags heart. Hey
Oh, hello
Ryan johnson on holdo the fact that it's a woman but it's a woman who isn't in a general's outfit
But has a real feminine energy
Seemed like the toughest thing that poe could come up against
There you go. I was right
as usual
What what feminine energy he's like, no, she ain't a bitch. It was a dude he'd be an asshole
She's just wrong
Oh jeez, okay. Well, at least it tells us what ryan thinks of women, you know
Women, yeah, you are holdo. That's what you are real feminine energy or something. Yep
Uh that feel when you suck at defending tlj you start criticizing it
He didn't do much criticizing it
He he yeah, he basically took all the biggest issues and then off right off the bat in the video
Basically just said don't worry about it
Uh quinton patrick called you're defending movies wrong
Oh shit
I don't know if they've even they've even made a thing for that. How do we defend movies correctly? I don't even know
Interesting topic by defending the right movies if you were tasked with writing episode nine, how would you do it?
You can go in any direction. You can do time skips and do retcons, but it has to be a sequel to tlj
Okay
Well, it's only a sequel if you interpret it that way so a thousand years in the and ironically
I I would have luke wake up return of the jedi
We've got that kind of freedom. I'd do it
It was all in yeah, man, because like the the new series is fucking borked
The world building is just oh man. It's just it's so bad. I know it's a meme
I would unironically do it and I would hope that the audience react to it in a positive way. I'd be like
the opening crawl
I don't know how the opening calls kind of worthless. I don't need it
I just need luke waking up in a sweat being like fuck
That's what happens if I allow it to happen and then the trilogy is now about luke trying to stop it
You know doing what he can and it works out work the way we do
I'm not doing
It's all a dream is a terrible way to write. Yes, it is. It is. I agree wholeheartedly
But hey, give me that desperate times call for desperate solutions
You give me that I will write the rest of it in a much more set. Just give me that just give me the dream sequence
It's all a dream. We need to we need to cut the head off the snake and just start out
We need to cut our losses basically
I might even go as far as having a little intro in the film where me and rags we sit down on chairs and we sigh
Then we look up at the camera and we go look
We were tasked with making this film
I
explain why
You see one professional movie makers did such a fucking shit job
Yeah that they had to call in a bunch of amateurs who actually give a damn about star wars
And look yeah, this isn't what we wanted. I know that we're all stuck here. Okay, we're gonna work on this
Even though the millions are paying us does help but we didn't want it
And that's what we would do. We would do it that way
Uh note to self create a series of memes saying that memes are bad
I don't know. It's to me. It's just
Unequivocally amazing memes the best thing ever
I love memes
Memes are great. Memes are the lifeblood
Uh, hi, I have heard for something to be objective. It has to be quantifiable measurable
Eg kilometers can be used to measure distance
And so movie elements cannot be measured and so they are subjective. How do you respond to this?
That kind of harkens back to what I was talking about before
to um
I guess to do another analogy I've talked about before you have a house
And you have a pile of rubble
Now the pile of rubble is not a house. However
What are the process between the pile of rubble in the house all the different stages and i'm talking about establishing the uh,
the foundations or putting in the um
What's the uh, what's the foam insulation that sort of stuff insulation, yeah the paint decorations different things that go in there
All of these different degrees of how much the house is a house
Depending on I haven't talked to builders about what makes a house a house
But obviously I have a rudimentary understanding of what makes a house a house what i'm trying to say is
What's the difference between that pile of rubble?
The thing that only has the foundations the thing that has the foundations plus the insulation and the walls
The thing that has all of that plus decorations the thing is completely done
To identify those differences is to create the scale
Uh because none of them are the same as the other but they still represent pieces of the process and so for every
Fuck up in a plot line
It uh represents a piece on the scale versus one that's completely fucked or one. That's perfect
He's zero to 100 and I understand it's like wait so more what is the number in which tlj is fucked up?
And it's like well, I can't give you a number but you can understand
Yeah, it doesn't necessarily have to be a quantity so much as
And one of a binary
And it's like is this something yes, no, yeah
Most planning authorities have definitions for a building. Yeah again, I don't I don't know it
But i'm trying to just relate it to another thing. So it's more understandable than me just relating it to talking about
Yeah, whether or not what what that standard is really is a building or not. It's just does it adhere to that?
Yeah
A house is where your towel is
That's true you need a towel, uh, all the towels that I own are at my house, so
Yoda the ultimate troller
I just finished episode 52. I get hating on closer looks video essay voice because it's freaking annoying
But I don't get criticizing doing a voice in general mola critiques mola's critique voice is different
Um, I mean my my video voice and my efap voice if you will
The only difference is that I don't flub anything in my video voice. Yeah, it's really just it's just it's the same voice
Just very clearly and precisely none. Yeah, so I have plenty of bad takes on efap. I will often
There you go. Take a break or like pause or repeat a sentence while in my videos. I don't
because
Why would I want to show you guys a moment of me repeating myself if it wasn't for the sake of repeating itself?
It's it's all supposed to be my best takes of every sentence while with the closer look he agreed that he just doesn't sound
at all like himself
in his video
And this was something that a lot of people noticed before we even had him on
We were like this is not um instantly. Yeah, you don't sound anything like you're
You don't sound like you're talking to us like a person and i'm pretty sure I sound like a normal person in my videos
I just sound a lot more confident and assertive compared to
being drunk
and
14 hours into a stream. I think I think there's a there is a difference. I agree
Yeah
Jar Jar did nothing wrong. Hashtag. Yes old jedi
All right
There's a book. All right. There's a book that's canon that has the force ghost talking to luke the whole time
What were they saying
Yoda's just like man, so you came here to kill yourself. He's like, mm-hmm
That's
Yeah, that's fucking pathetic
No, no, you wouldn't say that you would he would have to encourage it because obviously we see him
He hasn't changed so you're just like yeah, man. That's probably the best thing
Kill yourself. You must
He jumps into that thing we were talking where he tries it
and he's just
Yoda stomping him just trolling him
This is an awful movie
Uh, yoda watch those people on the new republic planets get blown up and laughed about it
Well pretty much he's he's having fun. Yoda ghost is having fun
You know life is it is this also play cotor 2 please? I and i'll get around to it at some point
I i'm sorry. This is also games. I gotta play
I'll get around to it
All right thoughts on dnd from game of thrones in charge of cotor
So the idea is that they're going to be making an adaptation of cotil into
movies like a trilogy
And they are the people who made season eight of game of thrones. So is that not concerning and it's like yes
It is
But they also made the earliest seasons of game of thrones
So maybe this will be
But a lot of people assumed that they fucked up game of thrones because they cared more about sealing the deal with star wars
Yeah, we're done with game of thrones. It's moving star wars and it's like, um
Okay, what happens when you get your deal after star wars?
Is that just gonna get turned to shit too? Yeah, maybe their first movie of the trilogy in star wars is amazing
Maybe it's great
And then maybe the second movie is 50 50 and then maybe the third movie is terrible
Or maybe it's all terrible or maybe it's all great. We'll have to see
Um, but i'm assuming it it doesn't spell good things considering what happened
with with game of thrones
anyway
I I thought trump was a myth. No, no, no, he became president
He he won. Um, oh he's super real season man. Yeah, he's real
happened
Schuster is my family name. It's jim and for shoemaker
Cool
Schuster famous locates a shuster in the fire new clothes for us of our feet our feet close
Bruce wayne disappeared from many years in batman begins. No one said he was a myth. They just thought he was dead
Yes, well the star wars universe works differently the second you disappear you're a myth
Morning lads have some dosh
That reminds me of killing
Grab it while it's hot
Luke is an a-hole for handing layer the dice agreed
It's really insulting to hand her the dice and the fact that she found it meaningful
It says to me that she has no idea what they actually mean
Lucky for me. I saw the movie solo and so I know what they mean
Yeah, hey your your your your lover had a girlfriend this was
So unbelievably awkward
Number one you got aiden paladin coolsies number two high rags
Hey number three to the person who bought the rhino milk t-shirt
I apologize. You got the one with a spelling error that says the dom instead of the don my gravest apologies
Sorry, that person. Yeah dom instead of the don
Don't imagine that says the don
Um, oh man, all this luke talk is reopening old wounds. It still hits fu
Onson yeah, that makes sense
Sorry about that
Now this stream is what i'd call good rat
Well good. Oh, no, I'm glad this is a good rat. Street. It was a good rat kind of stream
Hey guys
I've been making the yoda would have counseled luke the entire time argument since I first saw the movie
But luke cut himself off from the force. So would luke see yoda?
Um
So if luke cut himself off once he arrived at arc two then it's up to yoda to have talked to him from that point up to then
um
And then from there onwards and then there's still force ghosts that could have discussed things with kylo
This is the problem with the force ghosts until you tell us what is and isn't possible
We're stuck to assume that certain things are possible and when you see yoda
So enlightening we assume he's able to do that on on a lot of things
But um, I think this is a strong argument to try and make it a bit more believable
But luke cut himself off from the force and thus cannot be visited by force ghosts
But the second he reconnected
shouldn't yoda
ygon
Obi-wan like dude, what the fuck? Where'd you go? Everybody turns up like dude
You're the only place that could fucking change all of this together what happened you're all like what off light you piece of shit
Um, I don't know how people can find any fun in mindless films if you want a peaceful rest have a bath
Why go to a cinema?
Apparently that's a quote from park chan wook
Yeah, right
That's not a not a stupid. Yeah. I mean there are some films I like to see as maybe I'd like to see as mindless
I don't think what films do I consider mindless? Um the expendables
Yeah
Even though there was a moment in that last expendables that was kind of nice with uh, antonio benderos and
Yeah, I kind of thought that was nice
I only drink beer milk. I almost shed a little man tear
What is beer milk? I feel like that wouldn't they wouldn't mix well
I
Feel like you get that whole um, what is it cold when milk does that thing where it turns into like curdles?
That's probably it. Yeah, where it's like pieces of it and you're like
I feel like beer would do that to milk beer milk. I don't recommend it. You're milk. Oh god
Uh, my wife and I bet on how long this would go she bet 8.5 hours. I bet 10 hours wonder which of us was right
Neither of you
Yeah, well, I guess you were closer that would do whatever the bet was
Uh, also loving aden and high rags
Hello, also mooja and chat. I I see you. I see you. I got you. I see you. You're noticed. What do you do? What do you say?
Do the senpai rags notice rags? Oh
and then emojis
notice rags
Senpai rags notice rat notice rags. Yes, you noticed rags
Uh, hey guys, I can't stay long
But I just wanted to thank you guys for having a podcast long enough that one can last my whole shift
My question is what rpg classic would you best would best describe you guys?
An rpg classic that describes us
Hmm
Yeah, I really I don't I don't know we could we call ourselves the dark souls of podcast it's difficult to compete us
There's still got to complete us
I'm going to stick with that that's gonna make it to the end
Yeah, aden's gonna pop back up. I swear to god. She's gonna she's gonna wake up right before we finish or something
Yeah, all right, uh, love you boys
That's nice. They got a little finger emoji and the okay symbol. So it's the um, the intercourse symbol as you might call it
That's very kind
Um, this is not the best podcast ever it's a tribute that's a tenacious d reference high five good stuff
I'm loving this listening to efap while eating calzones and drinking surge
drinking surge
So i'm assuming that's a
Energy drink. Yeah
And watching the old star wars in the background. This is a great way to spend a weekend for me. Thanks all no problem. You're welcome
Happy to help for clarity. I'm working on something related. That's from alan gothic
Oh, he said he's working on something related to the question what rpg class would describe you guys I read that wrong
rpg class
That oh what rpg class describes us. Yeah, I guess we could pick one
Or bard my pick i'm a bard
Problem is don't the classes change based on which rpg are playing so it's kind of like well, there's generalities
Oh name a couple of generalities and then I will pick one. Uh warrior barbarian knight paladin bard assassin
archer arranger
A wizard a cleric, you know stuff like that
I'm going to go with rogue ones. You said
Well, you didn't say at all
Yeah, I I went with bard
There you go. We're a bard and a rogue very entertaining and I like to talk and speak and I like being the center of attention
But i'm also very very supportive but I can demoralize my enemies as well
They won't even come on to an efap if i'm there a couple of people have said i'm a
Wizard and mage fine. I'll be a mage if you want me to chat decides to give up
Rags is a bard and molar is a battle mage. Okay first. I'm a bard mage fine. I'll be a mage
And i'm a bard and I also have lots of guns which makes me a uh, which is a looter shooter
Molar is a wizard because he can ramble on for ages. Is that a thing the wizards do?
Do they ramble on for ages? I don't know about that. That seems racist to me
Meme alchemist. That's like something a bard would do
Yeah
Anyway, nah quinton will never have my respect also my heart hates ugos ugos. Oh that probably
Aidan what do you think about that? Ra says i'm the max charisma warrior like
Okay
Aidan's making noises
Aidan yep. Yeah, I knew she'd come back. You said it
How you doing aidan? Good morning good
Yeah, it would be morning
The sun streams. So when I said that this podcast is long. Did you think I meant this long?
Almost 11
Oh
You know, we're not even close to the end
Ym that's for sure. We finally made it to the super chats. Yeah, we did. We've been reading them. Oh, really?
We had there's a couple of ones for you as well. Uh, one of them says oh
Uh, give her a moment to get lucid. Maybe hey, no, no, no, we need her to not be lucid. Aidan
What are your thoughts on adoption?
On ada on what on adoption?
You could just come at me with this kind of shit. What are your thoughts on adoption? Answer now
Good
The dawn would be proud. I don't know. I'm okay with this. This is a good answer. Uh
What did I save any other ones? I think two. I got fenna fenna
Oh fenna more. Wait a question for me. Oh, no that that shad shad shad shad shad shad shad
I've got eight questions for shad. Holy shit
Chad what's wrong with you? Why do you make people ask you questions? It's wrong
I think the other ones were sort of like high
Aidan so you're all good. Yeah, you will fall asleep probably before we hit the end of this stream. Don't worry. Just
You're fine
By the way, you've outlasted j despite the fact that you've slept. It still counts. So you know, that's a valid strategy
Say fucking i'm sleeping through you don't have to stay you can literally leave and go to sleep
It's totally okay. It's not in the rules. Yeah at this point. I've just been asleep. I I don't know. Um
You know that
Can't believe we've been through two sleeps for you
Me and rax is still here. Just like yo again. What I told you is that like i'll stay hover long
However, at some point i'll need to sleep
Again, it's totally fine. I just find it amusing
Uh
All right, what else is left for hollywood to ruin at least the princess bride is safe, right? No. Oh, don't tell yourself that
Yeah
We no
Nothing is safe. Everything will be killed eventually
Uh
The skeptics with a single most counterproductive group on youtube being one makes you seem like a saga knight far tougher
Make 50 minute video on that ap
Oh, I guess ap would be you aden
Yeah, um
I don't know. I don't have I don't have an issue with the quote of what skeptics however
I feel like counterproductive groups. There's got to be one that outclasses the skeptics
Oh, yeah, I mean were they counterproductive 100
But there's got to be like a group that literally destroyed itself like because
Like I said, it was already a loosely defined group. That isn't it's even more loosely defined now and they're all still like going
They're still a thing. Yeah, it's not like they
Still find anything. Yeah, that's that's a big part of it too. Is it like oh, yeah, they all got oh and uh skeptics over it's like
How like we're all still here
Yeah, you know
Whatever though, it's not like I mean, yeah, maybe
Some of them. Well, I guess if you take any groups of them won't turn out. Well, oh chat is saying bathwater question
Okay, we're gonna have to ask aden. Here's the bathwater question. Yeah, go for it. All right. So if you drink
Oh, sorry if you drink someone's bath water, do you deserve to get herpes?
Oh, yes
I mean, oh, sorry rex
I lost another one to wolf. See, I thought aden would have we would be on my side and would say
No
But I mean, okay, it's not like it would be cool for you to get herpes, but you you're consuming someone's okay
Here's the libertarian position, right? Which is that?
Do it about wilst
essentially, but
If what that wilst results in you drinking bath water that's riddled with herpes
And you know, you don't know if you don't know it's riddled with herpes
you did it for
Graphing you drinking bath water. Yeah, I mean in this scenario you did it because
You you're drinking the bath water of someone you respect
in some way
The reasons you adore I know for instance you drink you drink what's her face is better
A belle delphine's bath water. What's your favorite sargon of a cod, right? You you drink
I drink sargon's bath water. Yes. Yes. What do I do? I deserve to catch the liberalism
Dude, that that's that's how you obtained his powers
Here's here's here's my thing
I don't think you deserve to get herpes from drinking bath water and I will present
I will I will present this argument to you aden and I think after I do you'll be on my side
All right, go for it, but a lot of this comes down to how you know how we define what you know
deserving essentially, so
if you are uh, like a
kind-hearted
uh
monk
missionary and you
go out to
a leper colony to try and help them and
Soothe them and do stuff like that. Just take care of them. Do you deserve to catch leprosy?
Yeah
Wow, you say wow, thank really
I mean you're hanging around with lepers
You deserve leprosy for helping lepers
Yeah
Rip rags, holy shit. Wow
Well, holy shit. Wow. All right, let's just be honest. I mean
I'm like i'm not it's
You're a good person and good on you. You've done a good thing, but you probably deserve to have leprosy
Good people deserve to get leprosy
I mean if you're hanging around with lepers
Now are you now?
Are you are you conflating like it is a a logical result of the actions you take with?
You deserve to have something happen because of maybe I maybe I don't understand the term deserve
You see this is what I said. This is what I said. This is what I said
Exactly thinking at my way of looking at it would when you say deserve would be
a logical conclusion
of
But you've been deserving a moralistic sense
I yeah, I I think that when I talk i'm definitely definitely going with a more moralistic sense of deserve because like I think that
I can't really make a fucking statement on that. I don't
I'm not a fucking philosopher. I would say that if you if you go around hanging around lepers
Then then logically yeah, you deserve to get leprosy. That's I'm not gonna say logically you deserve it
Well, let me put it this way. Does that mean that every person who goes to a leper colony and doesn't get leprosy?
We should give them leprosy so that justice is done and they get what they do
I'm not a gift-giving. I mean they can do whatever but uh, but justice has been served
They deserve leprosy, but they didn't get it's not justice saying deserve. Okay. Okay
That's not the way that I would look at it because I don't see this as justice at all
I'm just saying deserving this as in well, you can't really be surprised. Do you know what I mean?
What if a so let's say you have a baby who?
Uh gets away from his mother or whatever and runs into the street, right? Does that baby deserve to get hit by a car?
Uh probably I mean
Wow, okay
Next super chat
It's a Darwin award, okay
I'm not saying that but they deserve it in a moral now. Let me be clear again
I'm not talking about any of this from a moralistic sense
I'm just saying deserved as in an outcome or a likely outcome of
A series of inputs and if the series of inputs is
Absolutely brain-dead kid trying to yeet itself
Um, you know, I I think deserve it. I think an inextricable part of deserving something is
having the worthiness for rewards or punishments and I think that's
possible to separate from some kind of a
Moral tension. That's a moralistic way of looking at it. I I would say that
I mean, I I don't know like I I have things that I think are immoral and moral
But for me personally, I just think that um, if if you did something that has a statistical probability of resulting in x y or z
then to say you deserve x y or z
is
Appropriate in the description just saying so like 50
No, it depends it depends on the statistic
I mean it depends on what it is. I I'm just saying though is that if
If you work with lepers all day
You kind of deserve to get leprosy jeez statistical standpoint
But do you morally?
Uh think that that is the result. No, there you go rags. There's your answer you're looking for
Then morally it's not they don't deserve it. But in terms of like, um, a series of logical events. Absolutely
But as a series, yes, as a series of logical events like oh, yeah, here we go
This makes sense. I'm holding fast. I'm holding I'm holding I'm I'm holding this ground
I ain't getting i'm not giving this up. I will say giving this up more people side with wolf than with you
I find it all very fascinating. They're wrong. They're fucking wrong. Okay rags. Fuck them up
I I this is my hill just like the definition of literally I will not budge literally
spudaman
Godzilla
the wall and
Listen godzilla was terrible
Godzilla was terrible spider-man homecoming is amazing. The wall is meh and
Literally does not mean figuratively
This is the legacy of efap by the way, we we talked about because
literally also has like a second definition that it literally's definition can also be
Figuratively and I like no it fucking can't
Literally could mean not literally and it's like what the fuck no
It's like we already have something for that called sarcasm
That's its own special little rule
You can't just say oh, uh blue. It means not blue
Tall means not tall
But yes, that was so funny guys, I've literally died it's like no you didn't literally
We've had everybody answer this question to some degree and it's always about how you define deserve
Which is the main main point of contention?
Some people think you morally deserve
To get leprosy if you help lepers, I suppose
Some people I don't know I can't say
The moral deserve it in this thing you're doing a good thing. I mean
It's really hard to describe. I guess. I mean you're you're a good person you're doing a good thing. So you don't
Morally deserve it, but you should also be just aware of
reality
See the guy see chat. I knew that she would agree with me once I chat. Uh, this is from marcus waters
He says I think she means that if you don't take the proper precautions and end up getting leprosy as a result
Then you are deserving of what you receive
I'm assuming sleep-addled brain. Yeah, like if there are ways to avoid it and you don't take those precautions then
kind of
You earned it. It's what some people might say
I mean, that's just yeah
No, I mean that's that's in the same way that if I I don't know I went into a volcano to rescue a child
That had fallen in there, but it's still alive and I didn't put any precautionary gear on
You deserve to to be burned
Oh so hard because I don't know
If you go in raw in a whole bunch of situations and you end up with the gift then you know
You can you really who do you have to blame but yourself just saying
I was gonna say like what if I didn't have the gear on me and did it because I wanted to protect the child
It's like you deserve to get burned
It's like well that point is gonna be a logical conclusion, but it's not because I wanted that it's because I had no choice
So I think it's a fascinating discussion. I do. I love it. Great
I hate budget. I hate budget
I don't think you should
uh, it's all good, so the next one says
skeptics are literally just anti-sjw's who aren't alt right slash wn
Wn w oh white national. Oh alt right are not white nationalists. That's the one thing that like ties all alt right people together
So that's like the thing you're an anti-sjw. If you are a skeptic who isn't alt right slash white nationalist
So yeah, so you're ninety nine point nine nine percent of anti-sjw is correct
Remarkable, I guess if that's how you want to define it remarkable republican says he wants to debate you
okay, so when we cover like
A closer look who describes endgame as being flawed because it's not enough like helms deep or that it doesn't have progression
All these other things there's so many talks to cover when we covered remarkable republican
Main points of contention where whether or not luke was a lesbian
Whether or not c3po was a gay butler and whether or not tywin lannister was the apex homosexual
I understand that he would like to debate these points
But like i'd have to remind him that it doesn't matter too much if you'd like to debate them or not
It's not i'm against having him on
But you do get that if he was to debate whether or not c3po is a gay butler is not something me and rags are too
concerned about
either way
If he was to convince us that c3po is a gay butler
I mean
What what really is gained or lost? Yeah, that's what I kind of you know, I just i'm like, okay
So like if he wants to debate us on those subjects
I just i'm not sure why and if he wants us to debate us on other subjects
Which we did not cover in the efap then I don't see why
That would be relevant. I have heard that he wants to make a colony of
People on mars. It's not something me and rags covered in
In the efap we covered him. So
If he wants to talk about that, you know, you can make a video or whatever, but you want to talk about gay butlers or gay
The hands of the king in game of thrones
Sure, we might we might have him on discuss it. But I mean
Me and rags are not too desperate to discover whether or not but also who cares
Yeah, that's the thing. We really don't care that much
It could be but I mean, I mean really who cares whether or not c3po is gay or if
You mean you don't want to know
Is
He's always been for some of us
Flamboyant I wouldn't be surprised but I don't care
Oh racist. Do you think he like do you think?
between like
C3p on r2 like there's something going on there, right? Oh, of course. There's something
So all we have to do is determine r2's gender in the middle
I don't I don't I don't think there's anything sexual going on between them. I think they're more like two old queens
Do you know what I mean? Like they're just there's
I mean we can hear c3po side. We can't hear r2's of them. Just like being old bitches about stuff, you know
Just complaining about shit
Yes, that's that's the take um, oh my god
Losing your cool in the middle of a fight is different than murdering someone in their sleep
I don't know why this needs to be explained so many times, but that's where we're at
Yeah, that's reference to uh
Talk about the differences between luke
In one film and luke in the other film, but yep
Why are you talking about star wars star war is coming out?
Star war star war. Yeah star war
What is star war? You don't you don't know star war is this
Whole thing rags explain it
Star war is about
The space wizards and it's meant for children. So it doesn't matter how shit it is
Oh
There you go
Yeah, there you go. Sounds great
It sounds like a product that I can get excited for. Yes, and then hooray product
I love me some product seeing footage of the ot cut next to quinton's face makes my childhood vomit. Oh
We didn't that's not what efap is after but I mean
We can't promise what reactions everyone's going to have to everything, you know, we can't we can't ensure a safe
Uh environment and that you know, that's a flaw we're gonna have to work on it
uh
Dragons are just lizard wizards
Lizard wizard
I can't are they are dragons magical?
Uh depends on what what universe we're talking about because in game of thrones they're considered magical
In
I don't think they are in lord of the rings, right? I don't think are they magical. I don't know
I don't know. We'd have to consult wolf. Yeah wolf would know. Um, or the ghost of jrr. Tolkien. Well the ghost of j
died
I had to ask that professor
Mihai cheek sent mihai mihai. She sent me I would know he's they would know
Big idiots. That's another person who would know we don't have access to all of these people at hand
You know, we have to wait
Just send these messages to them by raven
Uh molesbury is just an e wizard
I'll go with that
Shadow thirsty is a christian, right? Religion may be bunk, but dissing the religious shouldn't be a big part of your content
I mean, is he a christian or is I forget which mormon yeah mormon. So yeah, yeah sheds. Uh, he sheds
Uh, he's a mormon man, but the idea that we shouldn't ever diss religion as part of our content
There's nothing we don't diss in efap
Nothing at all. There's no limitations if any guest wishes to do anything about anything say anything about anything
Usually encourage that all targets are open
And uh polluting religious
Uh, because because why would we want a particular section of people that is immune to such things?
That seems like it would be kind of a big bad, wouldn't it?
Let's make fun of uh, we can make fun of
Uh atheism
Yeah
Yeah, so let's do that. Let's do that now just to show that we can do it
Well to give you an example in the boys the show
They have an episode where they make fun of religious people
And when I was listening to it as an atheist, I found it really awkward because it's like oh my goodness
They're rolling out arguments that I heard about 20 years ago. Like why'd you believe in god? There's no proof loll
Checkmate. Yeah, it is kind of like oh
Yeah, you nailed it. Good job guys. And there's like a
A decent portion of an episode all about like arguments like that. And I was like, man, this is uh
Old
I think it's just because of anyone who's militant about a belief is annoying
Whether they're atheist. Yeah, whether they're atheist or not
It's just extremely annoying to be around people like that. There's no one you can't make fun of it's really easy
You just got to find the worst visions of their collective. They always say stupid stuff
Uh, you could do a straw poll to see what percentage of your audience consider themselves religious
I thought we could we don't really care though
I don't really care. You can be atheist religious
Or everything in between which I don't think is a possibility, right?
As long as you're not a Scientologist
You gotta draw the line somewhere. There's gotta be somebody who's like, oh man rags just like
He doesn't he doesn't he doesn't uh believe in the holy work
I don't know zeed who's gonna fuck you up rags
Oh
Who better
I'm seriously, okay
My dad and I were talking about problems with the whole x-men franchise and he unironically says movies are supposed to suck
Anyway, they're just good for killing time
What who how sad this man's father wolfman jack said that's what his dad said
Oh, sorry your father's got an awful opinion on movies
What did like did a vhs tape fall on his head when he was young?
What it was well, I guess it wouldn't be a vhs tape. It's like it would be a
A film reel and it did just just a tv. Did a tv fall on your dad's head when he was a child and he just hates all
cinema
Uh, he follows up with saying this is the problem with modern audiences
I mean my my dad would never say that and he's he's old
Yeah, my dad
Just turned 67 in my dad's shirt and certainly would not say that shit so
Hmm
I'm, sorry about that
Show him some good movies and then explain to him why they're really fucking good and you should take them seriously
There you go. Done easy
People are just too apathetic about a lot of aspects of movies
So they'll just eat up whatever dribble they see
I mean because on some to some level it is that sort of like consumed product
Enjoy get excited for next product because for the average person
There isn't a lot of investment. They're just going to
You know amazon or netflix on their smart tv and clicking a button to purchase something because
That's what they're supposed to do and they have nothing else to do
Yeah, so I understand some of the apathy
And I understand some of the just resignation to well, I guess i'm watching this now
Yeah, when you ask them to think about all the plot details, they're like, what the hell why?
Just watching this to have some fun
I'm, sorry
I don't
Fuck up your day
Just keep going
Yeah, let's carry on though. I'm starting to get a little tired and it's uh five in the morning for me. So yeah
Yeah
all right, uh
What is this no one can hear you christmas in space
Oh
a grimace
grimace
What would you do if I came into your house and a goblin was threatening your family with a club while your family
Cowers in the corner
I would
I don't know. I I carry a gun with me. So I probably
Use the gun as a means to convince the goblin to convince the club
I would pay the goblin. That's what we've learned from efap. You have to pay the goblin and gold ingots
He gots out go outside and push the dumpster
Uh more or sometimes you need to just drop acid and surf cartons point on another note
Does whales have any surf for your fellow surfing welshman?
Whales have any surf for your fellow surfing welshman you talk are you asking? Yeah, do you got the big waves, dude?
We have a couple of beaches. We have a totally radical wave
The problem is we live in britain where like weather is completely inconsistent you go out and you're like, yeah
It's the sun and then a blizzard happens seven seconds later and then it stops
17 seconds later that wave was like totally tubular radical. Yes, these hot pockets are totally tubular mrs. B
Who's mrs. B?
I don't fucking know mrs
The hot
I don't know. I just feel like it's a 90s hot pocket commercial and I just have an idea
Actually, the first time I ever had a hot pocket was uh, we used to there was a little um
pool a community pool
but it was next to the um
Golf club the like uh, so we wanted to get any kind of snack way to walk over to the golf club snack
Store and they hated all of the the kids coming to use the pool because we didn't have to pay to do it
They just hated us because it was at this fucking resort and they're just super mad
We'd go over there and buy hot pockets. It was awesome
Just pissed them off for being a bunch of kids coming over into their fucking golf club
Fuck you, man
So, uh my first hot pocket I had when I was in college so
What is a hot pocket?
Uh, it's like a sausage roll, but oh that's what you mean. Oh, is that what a hot pocket is?
Kind of is it though? It could be more than just sausage from the inside it
Yeah, I think they like pizza ones and a different flavored
Or like hot pockets you pop them in the microwave and you heat them up
So it makes the outside really hot but the inside still really foam and people love it
Terrible because of how hot the inside gets
It's like a toaster strudel
I see all right
But I mean because the problem is that um, or like I don't know if you
Yeah, it's like a sausage roll essentially except for like full of pizza or something
So that when you heat it up
Or like a pasty, you know, like when you heat it up the it gets full of more hot
Whatever
If you're moving to britain, you gotta know this stuff because pasty pasty means something else
What does it mean?
Is that what you put in your nips? Yeah. Okay pasty. Thank you. I I am in four days
so I shouldn't
It's like a it's like a little meat pie is a pasty is like a meat pie. No pasty
Pasty a pasty is a meat pie. Yes pasty is
The skin condition. I don't know. No, it's a it's a noble thing
Hail, let's appear. It's pallid. I actually the way that I discovered what a what a
Pasty was is because um, I was having a st. Patrick's day party actually
And my friend's friend
Showed up and wanted to show off her
strong independent femininity
I guess
She was a friend of a friend. I got you
And she had um
Four leaf clover pasties. Yeah
And it was just awful
and also and and not to be rude, but
It was nice girl, but
but
She was very very heavy a very overweight
Yet the same way
Yeah, it's gonna happen
You could be heavy while thin, right? Jeez 350 is
Big a big girl, but had the unfortunate tendency or whatever that she had
Absolutely no tits. So it was like no
Oh, no, those are the important flaps
I know it's just like you had the it is like one lost the short straw twice
You just wow. You just got nothing going for you. And that's a shame because I think
I think lean healthy chicks with a flat chest. I think that's really super hot myself
So if you're just fat with no tits, then you just you're just like the michelin man. I mean you've lost
A lot
You ain't got nothing going for you
I can't it's like I can't run my hands up that and like grab a sensitive little
little chest or something, you know
Oh
it's just like
You're just fat and just reach in and grab it and pull the fat away
And then I mean like if I let go of you and a noise happened you're too fat
Whoa, I think in general if you let go of someone and a noise happens that's
There could be many things wrong at that point. Uh, we we can't confirm
Like if I grab you and then I just let go and I hear that
There's too much of you
It's too much of you
It's like I like you but there's too much of you
It's just too much. It needs to be less. I need less you with my life
What you said i've got to i've got to kick up with these things and look at you explaining in depth
I'm, sorry. We got we got to talking about boobies and fat chicks and I had opinions on both
I just had to give them
I want to highlight that he cute in chat said at mauler. He said
Ooh
That's a reference to futurama and it's a very good reference rags. You'd love it. It's a good reference
It's very relevant to what you were saying, but i'm gonna leave it at that the next one says
Can you guys do an efap short on a status? I believe that's to do with the 40k thing
I know that what would you like us to say other than it's like really cool. We're not we're not big into
That's the thing and i've got no reference for 40k. So all you'll see me doing is going. That's cool
Wow, that's fucking badass and cool. Oh, wow
Go, uh get um, just go bothered
Uh arched. I don't know. It's already did it though with like sargon and stuff. Yeah, we gotta just bring him on to talk for all of us
Arches a cool guy just bring him on and yeah, I don't know. I don't know i'm not interested to do it
Yeah, rags is the only person on efap in terms of a regular that couldn't do it
And if he's not that interested that we're just i'm i'm just not really that interested in the topic to that point
Uh 40k in general
Uh not doing the video about it. Like I really love a star test in the the animations
I really really like it. I think freaking amazing
but doing videos about them and
Stop sending super chats. I will never be able to complete this shit
If you keep sending like seriously, we actually we've been going for like four days
I don't have a contingency plan. We're nearly at four hours of a second stream. What the fuck am I supposed to do about this?
Look this is not easy. Okay
All right, let's just keep on going. I can't wait for episode getting money
Well, I i'm not trying to say that it's just the fact that how do I make this normal?
The idea that i'm gonna have a full
We're we're nearly at four hours and this is called the super chat stream. That's insanity
I don't know what to do about this other than continue and I gotta stay awake too
I think I can do it. It's gonna be one
two
Three four five six drunk. I had time to take a nap. I i've still been drinking
It's six hours until i'm up your liver has been working overtime to keep up with efap
In six hours, I will have been awake for 24 hours, which is supposed to be a fucking meme
But apparently we're about to actually venture into that idea that a normal episode of efap
Can extend to the length of a 24-hour efap, which is supposed to be a special but
Well, what do you want from me? I don't know. All right, there's no point in complaining
I'm gonna kick on I can't wait for episode nine when we find out that mundane matt is not the father also high rags
Hey
Not the father. I mean, I don't know if you heard of his kid his wife's
Oh fuck, I thought they would refer. He's like one of us like he wasn't the father of one of us
I was like, oh no, no, he's not fathering. He ain't my daddy
He well he uh, there there were some leaks from his discord where
Recently, I don't know what I think I guess monday matt sad that he doesn't have anything else to do
So he just is trying to start some shit with randos
I don't know how old those leaks are
They have to be relatively old because he talked about whether or not he was going to go to meth con this year and stuff
meth con
Hey, man, I was a speaker. Um, no meth con. I thought you said oh meth con. Oh, no
definitely not at meth con but um
Tim pool always talks about it. Do you remember that?
I don't know if you listen to tim pool, but
If you haven't i'm mixed race tim pool
If you haven't listened recently tim pool's gonna tell you about a couple things one
He's going to tell you about how he's a mixed race
Two about how he's still on the left
Yeah, did you know that he was homeless? Oh and he
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I I love tim but homeless
Starting to embrace that it's a meme which oh, I love that he's embracing it's a medium it makes me very happy but
He's constantly been talking about this event that he helped sponsor and that was the event that I was at
with a bunch of other people I mean start on and
thank and
I mean well shoe and skeptic were supposed to be there, but they they canceled. Um, a lot of it will cancel
Um, why is that?
Oh, is it because they oh yeah back on their thing down
Yeah, yeah, I remember I remember because the antifa said they were just gonna like burn it down and kill all of those
So I get why people are are a little bit afraid to talk is my point
I would be afraid to talk at meth con as well because I mean
They're you can't really trust them. They're gonna be out for a fix
Right. Sorry. I I got I got off track the reason why it was important about why the meth con shit
Is because monday and matt
Started talking a bunch of trash about the quartering
And a whole bunch of other people
All because it's like oh, oh, yes. He oh it all got leaked all of the um, uh,
these discord
recordings of him just being
Really rude about other people but he did the exact same shit with me where when I when I first met monday matt two years ago
um
I was at meth con
And it's I as soon as I like met him. I was like, uh, hey, dude
You're kind of an asshole because it was right after the whole he got
Found or not two years ago, but a year ago. That was a year ago. So yeah a year ago
so
It was right when he
Got in trouble for the flagging thing. Yeah, and I I told him what everyone else told him
Which is that like yo, dude people will forgive you but you have to pay some penitence for that
Um, yeah, you have to actually make some kind of a fucking effort to show you're sorry
You can't just make a tumblr post and call it quits. Oh, he tried so hard though. He wanted that to be it
It just didn't work
We all did
And then he he at one point he was like hey aden
Oh, because at this point by the way, I had offered him a hundred dollars
to debate hard bastard
And then tonka said well, this is back when tonka saw was doing stuff said put a zero on it
So at the time he had 1100 and then I think someone else offered up like 300 just to get him to debate
hard bastard on something. Oh, yeah
And he refused to do it scored how much in total?
I think it was like it would have been like 1300 1400 dollars
Just just to participate in the debate for an hour. I even said yeah, even I said like I I won't do it
I I'm not a very good debater. So you do it with somebody who actually knows their shit more than I do
um
But now he refused but at this at this event last year, right?
Um, he he basically the one where now he's talking shit about
The quartering and and sorry on other people in private
He was like, oh get a picture with me aden and he he's like here i'll i'll i'll we'll draw a little fake
uh silver play button
on a piece of
Paper and you can hold it and it'll be like we're trading it off and i'm giving it to you
And uh, you know puts his arm around me and stuff like let's take a picture together
um, and then about like two months ago
after
this happening a year beforehand
Goes and starts messaging him and jeff holiday like they're connected at the ass, which they definitely are
Start messaging the organizers of mythcon and the event this year
Being like hey, did you know that aden paladin is a holocaust denier?
Oh and wow, and I just really wanted to say
Wow matt real interesting of you to want to get a picture
To be opening your mouth like you just saw new nintendo switch game
Putting your thumbs up with a holocaust denier really makes me think
When you have something like what happened to him happen to you
There's no low you can steep to anymore because nobody believes you anymore. Nobody thinks you have integrity anymore. So
What can't you say go nuts? Yeah, because he didn't he didn't go through the the effort to redeem himself
Therefore he's just I don't he's super jealous
he's
Also, by the way
If you're making nothing from youtube and with the numbers he's pulling he's making fucking nothing
His patreon is basically dead and he's spending the bucks to go out to mythcon
Like you know who you are, right people hate you almost universally
He didn't like you're one of the internet's case studies now you're spending all this portionary tale
In person there's a reason why you don't do what he did
Well, yeah, I mean one thing that nobody accepts
Is trying to take on other creators because it's fucked up
The last thing we need is a flagging war because no one walks away from that. It's like the
Wmds
Of you know, it's the nuclear deterrent where it's just nothing but spamming takedowns and the cold war of the internet
But like in a bad way
Yeah, it's like something don't do it. Just don't don't do it. No one wants it to happen. Don't do it
Don't flag people
Monday man sucks. I like boulder memes. That's my conclusion on that
Yep, boulder memes make me smile
Moving on at jaxi you will go home and rethink your life. I feel like that was said before in a pasty fap
Of course, he will he did he's always sleep right now
Uh, he's trying to he's trying to whistle. He's trying to learn how to whistle. Yeah, he's embarrassed by the fact that he can't
um
Yeah
I'd rather they leave the classics alone don't make sequels to them all and make new original movies that leave the old stuff alone
Yeah, that'd be nice you're not gonna do that though
The only way people aren't gonna see their new crap they have to take old stuff
And ruin that well, they gotta get people in the door like oh, look at this old thing
There's this thing of like I think that'll happen soon
Like we'll get the the dnd or the ryan johnson trilogy that has nothing and I mean nothing to do with the prequels
Or the ot and we'll be sitting there like thanks guys
You destroyed everything in the ot and then you made one that was disconnected from them
Would have been kind of cool if you did that in the reverse order not that I um
Yeah, would have been just kind of cool if they had in any way
I don't know one either followed the road map that lucas laid out for them
I'm, not saying that would have been great because we know georgie
Doesn't always know what the fuck he's doing or frequently doesn't
or
Just done old republic stuff use the expanded universe actually use stuff. That's already written you
Some people argue that that's what they've been doing. They've been taking
Extended universe stuff and or expand and ruining it with mara jade
has been
Twisted and converted into like a horrible vision in in what we see in the sql trilogy like kylo ren is supposed to be
the character
My memory is very phasy on this but some who is it something solo who's the character from the
Kind of universe solo. No the son of that person in the extended universe that disney decanonized
something so
Jackin, is that it?
so some people see
Jason
Yeah, I I don't know if it's jackin or jason
But the the point is the disney decanonized but then they cannibalize like parts of the extended to make their own thing
But they make it way worse
and so on solos kid like
really force sensitive
I'm pretty sure it's very much
applicable to what happens to kylo and that they just took
This is that they liked and then they made their own thing and it turned out to be way worse
that's
And so when you reference anything from the extended so when people say like oh my god, you should be bringing in thrawn
My immediate response is like guys
You know really want them
To do thrawn. What do you think they're going to do? Do you think they're going to do exactly what you want?
Or do you think they're going to ruin thrawn?
And as an advocate for homecoming spoodman
Yeah, they they could make a throne that's completely different from what you want while is good at least consistent writing wise
But i'm going to go ahead and assume they fail on both fronts. They make a poor adaptation. That's poorly written as
And so let them do whatever the hell they want to do anymore
Souls is pretty much destroyed
And I say that no in fact
They can resurrect whoever they want whenever they want and fucking ruin them as proven
with
The emperor also someone said since when can we call a cold war good mauler?
I don't think I ever said a cold war is a good thing
I'm sure it's how better than a hot war again. It's better than a hot. Yeah, you gotta put things in perspective
A cold war is still is better than than a than dropping bombs
And then another comment was maybe the spiders
I'm gonna flag you as I go. I'm gonna
Maybe back
I guess you just got to put things in perspective though
Well, so maybe the spiders are trying to warn mauler about the duration of the stream that seems like most likely
like
Aiden, do you know how long we've been going for since we started?
Well, let's see. It's been 12
14 hours 16 hours
Yeah, since I start I think since I organized the call with me you and
Sorry, no, wait me
Rags no, no wait j rags you and I there we go. Um, it's been
I
I'm using maths 14 hours possibly in an erroneous way, but it's 11 plus 4
15 and a half hours about oh god, really? Yes
Oh, well, well I had a map so i'm fine. You got two
I will keep going exactly
I only fell asleep for like 30 minutes the first time. I swear to god your your sleep noises were adorable. You're fine
Cat loved it. Oh, no, that's absolutely terrible
You made it through it's okay people were okay with it. It's fine. You can look over the the vod
It's just we ask you a couple of questions and you don't answer
I assumed it might have been because you were sleeping
But I think the logical answer is you just you were offended by the questions and that makes sense
I I mean it depends normally i'm not offended by almost anything. So
Anyway, uh
There's a super challenge that says the reactor six mix
I don't want to make of this the reactor six mix
Okay more talking about star wars never thought i'd see the day
I will I i'll let people know
And this is this is an unexpected thing when we when we cover star wars in any way shape or form
There will be people in the chat being like more. Are you serious? You've talked about this
Since it came out. Can you please move on?
And it's like you watch efap. We don't cover souls every episode. Okay
And when you don't cover tlj for an extended period of time
And then you do later from the perspective of someone who's reviewing it. It's like of course new things can be brought up
You know, it's it's okay
but
If all of the same things are addressed that were addressed two years ago
I'll be honest with you the people who are addressing them
Slash creating them are probably not going to remember what was said two years ago
And thus will probably treat it as a brand new thing
Even if they say one to one what the new thing was the the viewers at the time will probably be okay with it
You know that could be an interesting comparison. What i'm trying to say is i'm sorry if you felt like this was repetitive
but
me and rags deliberately delay the responses to tlj content
In order to try and come across as non-repetitive and yet no matter what happens when we eventually cover them
There will be people who say
You cover something else. We're like, but we do regularly
I'm, sorry all the time. We cover a lot efap at this point has grown where if you looked at the list of topics
We've covered
It's absolutely insane
Like i'm going i'm going from whether water is wet all the way over to whether or not an olive is a weird grape
These are debates that have been had
Not even referencing media at that point
You know, so okay i'm gonna continue now giant coconut crab spiders live on coconuts
I guess rags is referencing how it would suck to be apparently they're delicious. So yeah, it would suck. Yeah
Probably would suck but crabs are delicious. I'll eat the fuck out of a crab
It's called crabs are yummy
First human who saw a crab and was like, you know what carl i'm going for it
Oh, i'm gonna eat any kind of crab that I see i'm gonna eat
Oh, yeah, like any animal, you know, if it's an animal, man, i'll just eat that i'm a big eater
You know and yeah, i've kind of mentioned how spiders spiders like can can be creepy on their own merits, but
A lot of animals will have animal name and then animal to sort of describe to you
What kind or what version of this animal is and so anything before spider just makes it more creepy to me
Especially if they say shit like elephant spider i'll be like
Oh god elephant spider. All right, that's okay
What how big is it you like i don't want to tell you spider i'm just gonna yeah
So what do you have crab spider bird eating spider i'm like, wait, what literally human bane spider you're like, right
Human bane, okay. No, he sounds like a cool dude
I'd talk to him
man's bane spider the bane of man
Widowmaker spider. Yeah
You guys aware of the k19 widow maker
Name you can't homes. You can't be holding to some kind of accountability just because of his gang name
You guys are aware of k19 widow maker
Just k19 widow maker
You're putting them up to it kind of again
Not to say this is a tenacious d moment, but chat. Are you aware of a k19 widow maker?
And i'm not saying this is some kind of like history guy
I i'm literally just referring to the movie with harris and ford and I believe liam neeson
But um, it's a horrible story
However, and I don't think many people would say it's a great movie. I don't know what the current
Position is on it. But the k19 widow maker is is a russian submarine
That went wrong. This is this is a very rudimentary terrible
paraphrasing of some guy explaining what this actually is
But it's about a submarine that had like nuclear shit in it or like radioactive shit in it and it went bad
like
Because I don't really have much more specifics for you
That one whatever that was and so a bunch of people had to go into the core
and do a job that could
prevent it from exploding and causing major damage
and um
It cost them all their lives and it's like a super
Sorry for Chernobyl
Uh, maybe I don't know if it i'd have to look into because I already saw the movie ones. I think they all lived
Oh, no, it's not Chernobyl k19 is a whole different thing. But um, oh, okay. Okay. Okay
Many would not survive Chernobyl, you know, but the elephant's foot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
But well what i'm talking about I mean the guy the guys who went in I think only like one of them died
And yeah, there's terrible acts a lot of them a lot of people die. Yeah
specifically
the the the people who
Never mind we're talking about two different groups of people
Right k19, uh is a whole different thing and all of the people who went in to solve the k19 problem if you will
Uh, all I remember from the film and I need to watch it again
Is that the people in charge knew that whoever went into the core just let's just for the sake of the argument
Let's pretend you have to hold a button
For 10 hours and each person could only hold it for an hour at most
And once you hold it for 10, it solves the problem
But every person who went in there for even 10 minutes or more was dead
Like they'll be as good as dead once the radiation has taken over and the people in k19 basically told them that as long
As you wear these suits, you'll be fine. But it was like a
Yeah, it was it's kind of like a fucked up
Storyline, but it's a thing that happened apparently. I don't know enough about it
It's just the fact that
mentioning stuff like that reminds like widow maker is is what I think that is referred to k19 is the sub and it's referred to
As the widow maker because it killed a whole bunch of people
Russian again because russians apparently don't know what they're doing when it comes to nukes
That's all I have to notice a common a common element here
Because if the soviet's involved
The goggles they do not sing
You can't reference simpsons in the middle of serious widow baker things
Anyway, uh, what if the knights of ren are the friends we made along the way?
Hey
On youtube movies empire strikes back is twelve dollars. The force awakens is three dollars. That says a lot
It sure does. Is that true?
I wouldn't be shocked at all because so many movies are really really cheap to rent on youtube
whatever it's called
I feel like um
Oh according to the chat because I do want to make sure I get some of this more right than not
According to ron von richtberg, the the nickname widow maker came before the sub was even operational
Ah, well, they're playing that shit
They knew ahead of time this one. Oh this one. Oh, they knew what they were doing
This little fucker
It's like uh, which uh, which ship was I deployed to uh, it says here the widow maker
Oh and an os sp says k-19 wasn't actually called widow maker. That's just the movie
The actual submarine was nicknamed hiroshima. Is that true?
Okay, people look to google for this stuff because all I have is a very bad news
All right, yeah bad. It's just bad news
Should just have been called bad news bearers. There you go
That appears to be the the truth of the ship. I get it though me
I probably said a whole bunch of shit though. Some people are listening like more is full of shit
He has no idea what he's talking about. I know what I know how you feel. I'm just referencing a movie
I saw okay. I don't know anything more than that
You're gonna have to google uh, all of these different things to find out more. I still find it unbelievable that there's a nine dollar difference between
Renting watching empire strikes back and the force awakens. Okay, that's my main contention here
And you'd think it would be the reverse, but it's actually about tfa being three dollars if that's true. That sounds ridiculous
No, because they don't care because because dude
The the movie is terrible. They're trying to make any way they can off of it
And they know they know that people will pay 14 dollars to rent a good movie. Yeah
Jim Baywood said this ship is called you're all going to die. Welcome aboard. Oh, man
Could just be a nickname. Uh, the next one says the knights of ren with a jedi academy glee club
I never watched glee, but I don't regret that decision
I keep getting told it's terrible. Anyone here seeing glee?
No, oh god. No, all I know about glee is that community references in a way that's like glee sucks
Yeah, pretty much. That's what I know about glee as well
Is just from community references
Uh ren means love in japanese the knights of ren will prove rose tiko, right?
No, no, no, no, no, no. Ren does not mean love
In japanese holistically you say then I
Okay, you know this as well as I do very nice
Very nice
Very nice. Yeah, there you go
You got it. Very nice. Very nice. You know what people who don't know the context of this stream
We're gonna be like wait. Well, are you doing another 24 hour? I'm like no
No
We're up to four plus 11 15. Damn it. Hi rags
Hello, you prefer the male gluteus maximus or the female gluteus maximus?
I think I prefer the female gluteus maximus and the question too additional to that is why do you prefer?
either over the other
I just like the the females just tend to be a little more
They just shaped a little bit differently
Um, it's just that this I just just more attracted to um women in that sense at least
But you know, it's not like a big deal. It's like I like them both quite a bunch
um
I guess if I just had to choose
Maybe it's just like a current mood. Like that's what my current mood is. I I don't I don't even know I don't even know
But that's just kind of how I uh how I feel. I like those wide hips, you know on on a lady
Hips hips don't lie. They don't I've confirmed this with science
Uh, is your guest one of those women dale wentland would prefer to discuss star wars with?
Oh
Dale right dale wentland dale is a man
Who says that all of the women he discussed star wars with are more concerned with discussing?
The characters and the themes and and like discussing it positively while all of men are very angry and critical
No, um
You can absolutely be critical of something
now, okay women have a propensity towards being
Uh towards getting along and and trying to smooth things out so I get that I guess
To some degree, but that's also boring as fuck if we just all agree. Did you enjoy film that was made?
For your enjoyment. Yes, I enjoyed it
Thank you very much. Let's move on to next film. Did you enjoy next film?
Who the fuck cares?
Boring shit talk about the stuff that's wrong at this point. I know that you've seen efap before I feel like yeah
Some feels like you directly pulled it from efap
Almost the idea that we cannot fucking tolerate conversations where they go. I liked it
I liked it too
What is that a conversation that's that's that's brain death. Oh, sorry. I missed out the important part aden. I respect your opinion
Now we've got a complete conversation that's that
Oh god, oh it makes me want to be sick
But yeah, it fares dale didn't really dale didn't didn't
Support his positions
When we asked him, does he really think men are ruining star wars?
He like was immediately on the position of no
We're like, oh, so why did you say that and he's like well
It makes people click the video
It makes people click the video
Oh my oh that kind of stuff
It's funny because um, I i've admitted as I think everyone
Who uses this platform can admit to using some?
clickbaity tactics either in the title or in the um
Your thumbnail or whatever and it's not like it's clickbait. I'm still telling you what it's going to be
But I have been called out so much for being a clickbaiter
And it's funny as shit because I don't do that crap at all
Not in a real way because compared to how these same people will do it
Of
We're gonna have an epic discussion about this movie. No, you're not
You're I don't have a huge issue with what most people call clickbait
Yeah, because it's like yeah
You want your title and thumbnail to get people to click on the video or else like that's the whole point
You want people to watch your content? You got to convince people to do that. They sing your thumbnail
So don't be dishonest about it
Yeah, so if we if we talk about bait so like it's like you present a thing that's not actually there
Um in in reference to like fishing you'd be like this is food and the fish is like, ooh, and it's like no
It's actually your death. Oh
Wow, you really baited me into thinking it was x when it was y so when people say clickbait
There's different degrees. Like if I say oh my goodness, daisy ridley has dropped a bombshell
And you click my video and then I have an article with daisy ridley said yeah, I wasn't too happy
With a lot of the directions they took in the sequel trilogy, but you know, I thought it was okay overall
You're like
And so yeah, it's almost like so it depends on how you define bombshell I suppose but then you can lie and you can be like
Uh, I don't know
George lucas kills kathleen canadine and you go I meant metaphorically she killed he killed her
When he said that he didn't like her
In a video game, yeah in a video game
So, uh, yeah different degrees and this is something we we've talked about before but we'll probably talk about more as time goes on
It's like clickbait is a whole thing. Everyone does it differently. There are
Dale pretty much admitted to us that he did not agree with the title of his video even
But he put it there so that people would click
Oh integrity
Here's here's an interesting question actually
Uh, because I don't talk to a lot of other content creators very frequently
How much work do you put into your titles because I sit around and and like worry about them
For like a minute. That's sometimes a day
Mine will see refaced so they're practically made before I even make the video
When I when I get ready to do something, especially if i've been working on a video for a really long time
Which I usually have been I think I sit around and think about what the fuck I want the title to be for like days
um and not out of just a
Clickbaity thing but also like what's what would make people interested in it and you have to think about that stuff
Because otherwise people won't want to watch your crap. That's just I'm the rally when i'm making the video
I don't really think about it. Sometimes a good title just comes to
Yeah, most part I get it
Start the render start to upload it. It takes a long time because that's usually when I do it, too
The fps an hour long so I got plenty of time to think
And then i'm like, okay
Well, um, how about that's that's uh, and then I get distracted and I do something else and then when it's done uploading
I'm like, oh fuck. I kind of have a title
That's pretty much where yeah, that's pretty much what I do as well. So
It's really tough. The title
Like what you're going to call your video is honestly sometimes the hardest part i'll be honest in terms of
It is I think that I think that there are some people that who kind of start out with like
Titles and ideas in mind and then build a video around it and that's just sad and lame
I'm very like I like to be brutally honest in an almost tempting way like
Did you really title this the stupid is a super chat stream? I'm like
Yeah, that's what it is
Oh, but that's not very enticing. It's like that's what it is
And so you might be like, oh so you like to name things exactly as to what they are
I'm like, well, yeah, i'd like to argue that all my unbridled rage series have
distinct moments where i'm raging at the thing i'm talking about and then vice versa the critique of series is me
critiquing
In analysis extensively or what a thing is the moolah channel is probably more you could criticize my titling
But I still think like i've never titled anything. That's not what's what you're getting in the video. Um
But yeah, some people are talking about total biscuits like total biscuit was one of the best in terms of
Labeling a video exactly what it was. Um, the ones I always remember is stuff like
uh
A video in which I talk about microtransactions for 40 minutes. I'm just like, thank you
I'm gonna click that because I want to hear you talk about microtransactions for 40 minutes
Like, you know, I mean, it's just it's almost like a transaction
That's the most honest you can imagine and he's very much an impact in terms of how I want to label things
Interestingly, it's a it's that's actually really interesting to call what youtube viewership is as a transaction because it is
It's i'm going to give you my time
and in
Transaction i'll watch some ads and give you money even if not directly, but it is essentially a transaction of goods and services
That's really interesting
Yeah, we all do to do it differently in this all different degree
I'm gonna kick on with the next
Hell yeah, because oh man, it's all got 10 000 left
Oh my god, just got back from a five-hour drive. Thank god. I have efap to unwind with
You literally
unironically have 11 hours plus four hours and 19 minutes
Currently who knows how long that may last?
Uh aden do people have a moral obligation to do what is ethical?
A moral obligation in and of itself is subjective
I would say that all this and what is what is what is ethical the subjective?
We're talking about subjectivity upon subjectivity upon subjectivity. So, um
Do people have a moral imperative to do what?
No, uh, no because it there's too many variables there
To apply that unilaterally
I'd say no in most circumstances
And the second question is is there even a purpose of having a distinction between ethics and morals?
Uh, yes because uh ethics are rules to live by morals are personally held beliefs
Yeah, that's kind of how I've always assumed they are so like
Uh, you can see an action taking place and you immediately go that's wrong
But you don't even necessarily know why they may not have breached
It offends me ethically maybe it makes sense
For example the the um the eating of animals, right?
You can say morally this offends me because I don't believe that animals should be killed but ethically
Um, I understand why other people are doing it because they need it for them to survive
Right. So we understand that there's an ethical and moral debate that are disparate from each other in terms of the eating of animals
for example ethics are more
Societal morals are more holy shit. Raja said ethics and morals are absolute and they're ordained by god
Okay, and he followed up with saying anybody who goes against that will burn
Okay, uh
All right, uh join the long side of the force we have better movies
We also have better bebs
We also have longer ass podcasts true I can you could call this a long podcast I guess. Yeah
Yeah, I'm starting to get there. I'm starting to i'm starting to fade
Have you guys heard the new I would like to have I would like to I haven't had a smoke in
20 hours, man
Droking is bad. Yes
Drunking is bad, but smoking is worse
Mm-hmm. Yeah, don't smoke. See we're promoting good health on efap by keeping you away from cigarettes
See look you've made me sit for so long
I haven't been able to smoke because normally I would have had a lot of smokes by now
I want to like yeah, we did it when I sent you that message saying hey
You're aware that how these things go on for a while. I will say this is absurd
Okay, this is longer than I expected. I didn't this wasn't what I meant when I said it goes on for a long time
So i'm fine, but wowie wowie indeed
um
Have you guys heard the newest leaks for episode nine apparently palpatine emp blasts the entire rebel fleet by standing on the ground of a planet
And force lightning into the sky and reaching into space hitting them. Yep. Jeez. Holy shit
I I didn't even hear that leak myself, but
Anything is that's that's insane. What you need what you guys need to learn
Is don't react in a bad way react in a part be like, yes, that's gonna be great
That's gonna be so much fun to watch. That's gonna go great. You know what? It will be a lot of fun to watch
That's true. It'll certainly be fun to watch
I mean not in the theater or anything. I mean at home
Right just destroys all the
Fall down they blow up. Yeah, well, it's great. It's gonna be bad no matter what
How about we commit to being insanely bad instead of just okay bad, you know, let's go let's go crazy
That's that's my take
Here i'll be right back continue. All right, uh, damn ifep has a guest that speaks woman
That's yes. We we've had women guests before I say that as if we've had more than one or two, but yes
star wars language
Huts hutties de wayne wanga
I mean
I'm assuming job like star. It sounds like a star wars to me. I don't know
We're new wanga probably something they say i'm gonna go ahead and guess that that's a
That's something java said at some point for sure
The vulcan salute is a jewish symbol
It is it is actually it was something that leonard nemo
he saw as a child when he walked into the the temple and he saw the um the leaders of the
the jewish
Community was in give each other that salute. Um, so yes, it is. It is actually not um
I did not specifically jewish. It is specifically jewish, but it's also specifically vulcan
uh
When slav squat around heels touch the ground
Yes
We know exactly where in the stream these superchads are coming from
Uh
Apparently that is written in mandalorian
Yeah, it sounds like mandaloria
Sorry, I don't know anything. I don't know anything about their language. Sorry my dude neither do I but mandalorians are cool
Klingons apparently don't have a phrase for sexual harassment. Oh, no
Um, I wouldn't be surprised. I mean, how would you have to say it?
You just have to say like you have to say like gender violation, I think
I don't know as long as they got something close to it. They can survive the meme wars. Sure important part
uh
Have you seen grand torino I have oh, yes, I thought I was gonna be
Um his last movie, but he i'm pretty sure he made more after that right he did he's still making movies
It was great though, and then the follow-up says it should explain your gookman question
You talking about grimace?
I think he's talking about the persona chink and a gook
Yeah, but I like to just think that clint eastwood has a big a big issue with grimace
He's like
I'm gonna fuck you up grimace
And he's just very angry and he's just looking at this purple skin and he's very upset about it
Uh gook is a racial slur used by american gis in vietnam war. Well, that's only gonna be beneficial to jay
And he's not currently here. So
Yeah, right, right. Okay
So it was it was a it was a joke of um, it was from uh
Shit, what's it called? Um
Saturday live where they were making fun of richard dixon's like oh dick always used to say that uh
not every uh
every
A chink is a gook, but not all gooks are chinks. Like it's it's a fucking
Old as fuck ass racist joke
Very old
Uh, okay mark hamill is a jick
Ivanka trump posted a picture of her kids in star wars outfit and he said the force is strong in my family
Which hamill said you misspelled for it. Yeah, we did cover that. That's it's not cool. Not cool
Kids don't have anything to do with the what what is the the saying from I think it's game of thrones actually
uh that
The john snow is like all pissed at denarius and she's like I would ask that you don't judge
The children by the sins of the father and then he's like I would ask that you don't hold
The children to the oaths of their parents and I was like man, let's get shit
Uh, except I didn't oh they didn't
Yeah, i'm mostly referencing
Uh, this says osh, please give this 100 to kyle ps kick kyle
But they they superchad two dollars. I don't know where they go 100 from
But also osh isn't here it's 100 pennies
Ah, so they said dollars though
Well don't you can't hold them that kind of standard of numbers. I mean that's that's a lot of that's a lot of numbers, man
complicated
Can you imagine being the kid that drew this monster thing thinking he was scary and produces turn him into a joke
I think the kid was probably happy with the absorbal off. The kid was probably like man
That's really cool that my thing got turned into a thing. I'm sure he was happy
It's okay. Probably. Yeah, i'm sure he was I would be at least
I I probably even as an adult i'd be like man my little drawing got turned into an actual episode. That's pretty cool
Even if it is a tismy episode
I mean you'll you'll regret it when you're an adult and look back and go oh
fuck
but
It's as a kid. It's gotta be awesome
I just hit 1k subs and would love to do a buffy stream with aden and mauler
The zeppo is my favorite my pick for favorite episodes zander's finest hour a good episode
pretty cool to see
Xander in general at any time we get some kind of
just nice
Character development for zander i'm always on board
So it's a really cool episode in general though
It's like it takes us a second to poke fun at buffy as a whole at that point which
It's only his third season and it's already trying to be matter about the almost tropes
It's the best show at doing that in terms of
Immediately becoming meta about itself
Um, even star gate didn't do it that way
And it's also cool for zander. How do you feel about zander's eye?
Oh, I love that he lost his eye that shit, uh, it's so like horrible to watch
but you also want to talk about like something that's been set up for
forever
Is zander having the original quote-unquote training via the halloween costume position?
Uh of military stuff and then ending up becoming
Um it much is with I don't know how much you like, um or know about uh, the
avatar the last airbender
universe
But he becomes the soca of that group so hardcore. He's the same character soca and and and um
And zander I would say yeah, I don't know. I don't know what you're referencing with that
But for it's accurate
It's pretty good. I will see it eventually I swear
uh
Wait rags. Have you seen at least uh last airbender?
Like the movie or the show the show no in the movie. Oh dang
No, okay. So i'm the only one who makes that kind of reference. No, both I can make that reference. But yeah, it's it's
basically, if you like, uh avatar last airbender, uh, it's
The character development is very very similar in um
In zander from buffy
Like I said, I will definitely check that show out of it. It's gonna happen
Oh, the next one says j is right space balls isn't funny
I didn't realize that we could have a host and a super chat be so wrong in the same stream. That's crazy
Two pieces of shit in the same stream. That's pretty crazy. Yeah, it's wrong. Just wrong
It's one of those science proof thing
I spoke with science yesterday and the first thing he said was by the way spaceballs is funny and I was like, yeah
Yes, science. That's cool. I understand. I know
But sometimes science likes to tell you these things just in case you forgot
Anyway, uh mel brooks is overplayed
All right, j, I hope you get an incurable rash for that statement. Wait, that seems like a mixed message
Mel brooks is overplayed but want j to suffer for saying
Spaceballs isn't good
Because mel brooks made spaceballs
Yeah, but i'm so like the first half seems critical of spaceballs. The second half is critical of j who said spaceballs is bad
Or not. I'm not sure then
That's interesting
You're thinking and writing writing in particular is really hard
man, I think it's
Super difficult the next one says like thinkin st. Wesley is the best character change my mind
I won't be changing your mind. Wesley. Wyndham price is the best character. No, no
Oh, that's fine
But wesley wesley from tng. No, we we we don't know that one's the other wesley the better wesley
uh
Jay, what about the producers 19?
1960 okay. Let me great jay. He hasn't watched anything from his time
Why would you haven't watched anything?
Why would you ask if he's watched something from a time that he doesn't even know existed?
Like jay's not aware of even what time is he's just like oh cool. Everything exists in one plane
Okay
Haven't seen all the ring. He hasn't seen all the rings. Okay, so there's no point asking that but I understand that the need to
This is depressing
uh
Next super chat says stop making me want to watch buffy
No
No need to see buffy
Watch buffy. It's great. Watch it and you might at first be like, what are they talking about?
But once you reach certain seasons, you'd be like, oh, I know what they're talking about
It'll come it'll happen and the next one says wesley wendham motherfucking price
Agreed saint chair chef agreed wesley wendham motherfucking price
Have you seen firefly? Yes, I watched the full season several. I want to say twice maybe three times not several but um
Yes, i've seen it. I like it. It's good
I'm on board the idea that it should never have been cancelled. But what can you do?
life throws your curve balls
Uh, the borg queen was first in captain eo
Michael jackson disney world show which was produced by george lucas. So star trek ripped off star wars
Yes, um, I don't know if i'd say that but um, well the borg queen stuff is already terrible
It's just bad bad writing all over but the captain i-o stuff
at um
The the star wars adventure whatever it was in disney world. Yeah, you could definitely make that argument
All right
Almighty protector of the sun and sky I beg of thee please heed my cry transform thyself
From orb of light and bring me victory in this fight. I beseech thee grab our humble game
But first I shall call out thy name winged dragon of rah
That's from the cursed
That's from yugio
Yeah, it's like
To duel and I don't know. I don't know but I don't think so. I just made that up but it could be I didn't even know that
All right
Yeah, man
You know, there's some things you just don't know and then there's some things we like man. I wish I didn't know
I was
Uh, anyway, this is my favorite episode of efap now. I don't care
That was that was said. Yeah, I was gonna say I don't I think they're referring to the older one. I
Yeah, that was a pretty good one. That was pretty this one itself pretty shit though. You have to admit
Yeah, pretty pretty lame. Well, no, jay's not in this one really so true. That's a plus jay was in a lot of the other one
Not that bad
Most of it even feel a kick. I do young skyle waker
skyle waker skyle waker
For reference
And this is I was only told this but being told it is enough to reference it because it's so funny
I was told so when they uploaded the
first
trailer for uh
episode nine
They didn't call it the the name was rise of skyle waker instead of skyle walker
Again, no confirmation of actual truth there. No screenshots. That's probably not true
I just find the concept funny that they named it rise of skyle waker and they're like fuck
Change it quick
Go to the youtube editor
Um, anyway made a big mistake
I immediately regret my decision
I could picture them being like we changed that it's like we probably should
People some people still care about star wars. Okay
I guess so. Um, the next one says abort j
Rags are you okay with this abort j? Uh, it was there is it abort comma?
j
It just says no, it just says abort j
Oh, well too bit too late for that in it
In a way he's been aborted stream. Yeah, we're right. Yeah
Uh, so
Where's your granted?
Mr. Mr. Little golden window there
It's a nice one says I love you people you give me life
Very nice. I'm sorry, but thank you. This is worse than pikeman in episode 50
Hey, what are you referencing there?
Which part was it when someone was saying something in some way about something or was it quinton?
I don't know
But a lot of people very much enjoyed the pikeman in episode 50. I have to say I believe
I believe he is a good one. He is the pikeman
You can't you can't box him in try and judge him with any word would be inaccurate
You got to just accept it go with the flow
Uh art like this is why people shoot up schools, but what are you referring to?
Do you feel jay as a whole
Oh, yes, so I don't know about that
at
Like a book about something
Weirdly gets interpreted, you know
Oh, maybe they meant the shrek stuff jenna pointed that out. Yeah, that's probably what it was actually the shrek stuff
That's where we're at right now. You guys remember the shrek meme good ones. I do. I remember baby. We're at
Uh humans are animals aka long pigs super tasty
Yes, i'm aware of this that we were referred to as long pigs by cannibal tribes slash people
Long pig delicious. I mean if we taste nice, what am I gonna do? What am I gonna say exactly?
Me starting to make good progress catching up on efap
Nothing mauler. I'm gonna end this man's whole life starts efap 54
Um, yeah, you got where are we at now four and a half hours on this one?
11 on the previous you there's lots. There's lots of tisms to catch up on mauler. Do you like hentai?
I don't watch it. So
To like or dislike isn't really possible. Don't go near it. So
It's not a genre slash content piece that I am
Grimace versus goliath loser becomes edible. You really think grimace would stand a chance against goliath on?
I mean, I know he's only just established but grimace is only so strong
Mollicles dogs edible because he wants to eat out rags like the massive he is. Oh my goodness. Mmm. Good boy. I'm just saying
You can eat a dog. That's all I mean by edible. You don't have to take it to that direction. I don't know
Also, hi jay. Jay isn't here. I'm so sorry
Uh from blessed south pole, please make aid in the new third host
I'm afraid
She probably has a life
so
Becoming a full host of efap will kind of destroy that in every way shape and form
You know people joke about becoming a 24-hour
There'll be a point where efap episodes will just bleed into each other like me and rags finish an episode and we're like
Right. See you in an hour when we start the next one
All the time at least we get to sleep for that hour
You see how sleepy I get just after fucking playing dnd. I get too tired. God damn it. Yeah, it's
It's it's tough. We we we're still going and still nailing it. It's fine. We're still awake. That's the point. It's all good
It's fine. Uh, why is bulbasaur objectively the best starter? He's not
Charmander charmander one knows that
Bulbasaur is still a fair choice. Bulbasaur
I wouldn't deny that
Well, it's gonna say I think he I think bulbasaur is like he's got like the best stats and he does
Yes
And he gets you past when it comes to coolness obviously charming. Yeah coolness factor
That's kind of where we're going from. I still you know, i'm saying this i'm being very objective. My pick is squittle
I know that I don't care that it's not the thing that people go for but I go for squittle
And I see I mean he does get sunglasses
Yeah, oh they oh also, uh bulbasaur evolves quicker than the other two, but he's a plant and nobody likes vegetables, dude
That is
That's not really much of an argument to be had there though like it's like fire cool water. Yeah, that's pretty cool vegetables. Hmm
I mean that's all right again
Yeah, it's a vegetable and no offense to venusaur but he looks retarded can we all agree on that he's like wow
While blastoise like first of all fucking badass name and he's a turtle with like these explosive
Fucking tank things on his back. Oh, that's cool. Charizard is a dragon
That has fire all over it's like oh so cool. Yeah, venusaur is this like old man who's like struggling to walk like
I'm plant
He's like, oh no
so sometimes you got to consider
The end evolutions when considering which also you pick. Oh, yeah. Bulbasaur is a mutant of poison
Yeah
Razor leaf. Yeah, once you get to venusaur that always criticals
Okay, uh, so it's good again. He's getting against rock. He's really good against water
Are you cozy against fire remind me?
Fire how you don't fight fire very often. No
No, does it matter how often versus whether or not you can progress?
Well, yeah, you can your bully
Yeah, absolutely. There's you don't fight that many fire types
so
If you're going to if you want the chance you want to be able to be good against
you know rock and
Water and other grass types and I think it'll be gonna get sorry type too
Also venusaur is very thick but you get like what solar beam
yeah, uh
Stuff like that. I mean he has to charge solar beam, which is pretty shit. You gotta admit
I don't know. I just again
Venusaur is immune to sleep and poison. Well, there you go. Yeah, that's he's immune to sleep. Good job
You should be a host and also since since he's good against water and um rock
That means that the first two gyms you go to are brock and misty in their effectively
Squirtle still fares very well against them. He destroys rock and he's he's 50 50 with water
So that's worse
Yeah, but no you're right
But when you you're you're taking a sample size of just the first two gym leaders
I think charizard fit. Yeah, those will be the more those will just be the two difficult ones
The rest will be no problem because by then you'll have a lot of other poke
I feel like most pokemon fans will take issue with that statement ranks rags
I mean if you don't take I mean if you take like charmander, he's not going to be doing anything to brock
So your best what what what a lot of people do like what I did
Was I was tackle you could still use tackle
What I would do is I would use now that but because in gen one I believe tackle
Is a normal type move which means it's not going to do shit to rock
No, it's so what you're going to do is you're going to want to get yourself a caterpie
And then once he becomes a butterfree you learn confusion, which is a psychic type, which is gonna
Which is going to really hurt him rags. This is bullshit. What are you talking about?
It's just bullshit. That's not sure
I disagree
I just think that I i've never had a huge amount of problems with that
And that's because that's because the games are kind of easy. They are. Well, they are easy. You're not wrong
Yeah, that's true. Yeah
It's gonna you're gonna have to you have to put self-imposed challenges if you're gonna actually be challenged by the pokemon games
I I don't actually really like them anymore. I I think the combat
Gameplay is too simplistic and repetitive still objectively wrong to pick bulbasaur. We've established this. Okay
Now he's he's the thickest yeah, but he's it's still morally wrong to pick him
He's a plant let him sit in the soil. Let him be a plant
I'm not hearing any counter arguments. So I think that's that's it. We agree good stuff. Oh, yeah
I'm glad
Uh more or say rhino fist like you're yelling
rhino fist
Is that good enough?
I'm not hearing any objections. Once again, that is pretty good. Pretty good. That's right. Oh, no, is that what happened to wolf?
You ate him wolf isn't a doggo. He's a wolfo different thing
Yes, it's not connected whatsoever willy wonka did the wang doodle genocide. Oh
Oh, no
Uh
The lumpers were from lumpaland because roll dahl did not get to call them n-words. Oh
Is this confirmed in in the epilogue from the lower roll dahl
Uh ephar every frame a racist. Oh
Shakespeare is best in the original clingon
Yep, shakespeare clion. I didn't know that
I ate it. It's a star trek inside joke. It's a reference to the undiscovered country
Ifap is the borg of law and memes
I don't disagree with that absorb
Confirm we kill I mean in a good way this stream has confirmed that literally anything is more interesting than one of quinton's videos
He is more of a massive massive than film robert. Oh, is he more of a massive massive than film robert?
He's a massive massive dude
I still who would you rather cover film robert or quinton rags? What would you reckon?
Film robert you'd rather cover film robert
It's funny because of his pathetic notes. Yeah, I yeah, but uh
Film robert does really test your limits in in the brain. Yeah, I guess so. Yeah, I guess I guess quint. I don't know they're both
Yes, yes
Uh, it's tough. It's weird like I I would just alternate one to the other honestly
Yeah, I think maybe maybe when you watch one of them the other one seems tempting and vice versa
And yeah, maybe that one's not so bad when you think of that one, you know, but that one's not so bad when you think of that one
Yeah, oh god
It's this whole thing. It's complicated. I understand
I love fin speedo was melting from the heat and pressure of the laser but fin in his exposed cockpit remained safe and sound
Nice fine
I mean everybody knows that flesh
Boons at a higher degree than mel does right?
True, right
Yeah, thank goodness for a second there. I thought it was me. I was like, oh no my point
benjamin cisco is best captain. Don't at me
um
Okay, I will at you. I will say that
in terms of best overall captain
Cisco and picard are really fighting it out
In terms of just to the strategic stuff in terms of best captain from an entertaining point of view
Oh, you got to make jane way and captain kirk fight each other because they don't give a shit about the rules
That's what makes them interesting
Well, what about captain?
Uh
Orlak is that his name the guy from discovery?
Who cares that's that's the point i'm bringing it up because I know that no one cares
Is it all locked am I right on that or something else? Maybe just disgusted. I don't care at all
Quick play rag's theme
Rag's thing. I think you mean akbar's theme. Uh, the theory that han solo activated the lightsaber was debunked on the novelization
I
Don't know um, yeah, yeah, yeah that that he was able to turn on when you're talking about when he cuts up the taunt on
What did the novelization say?
Um, the luke did it basically that like you yeah, there needs to be like extant energy in there
Okay
I mean that that either way now in the universe that's been overridden by fin, so I don't know
Couldn't someone just overwrite that again with a novel like oh fin did it because it's ray was doing it
Actually was a little far sensitive just enough
I'm i'm definitely in the camp that a lightsaber can be activated by just a random dude
Just you flick a switch and it turns on it's a piece
And I kind of like the idea that a randy can pick it up and be like I don't want to try and use this
Oh god, i'm terrible with it because jedi have like a benefit being that they're full sensitive. They can use it better, but
I guess not like you can't use it. Just press a button. God damn it
Just press the goddamn button. You'll be you'll be better off than not at all
Um, yeah, it's like I can believe building it would be you know, a jedi thing. Yeah
Broke han killed himself for kylo woke force ghost han turned on the lightsaber and killed snoke do it jj
I'm not against it. I want to see it now
And it's like a whole set of seeds to recontextualize it like how terrible
But you say that but like don't you want it? I want it bake it
Be as bad as possible only only for a meme
But oh, yeah, totally but
Do you expect episode nine to be great on its own like seriously?
No, you know what? I guess, you know what let's let's hope it's as bad as possible because at least that would be funny
Yeah, to be honest with you. I'm like, let's go even worse
Let's go even worse. Whatever we can do to make that worse do it
Let's go to the next super chat. Yes
Because i'm fucking tired of shit. Um, i'm yeah, trying not to pass out again
How many naps do you need woman?
I I mean a lot of listen
I sit around and read thousands of pages of research every god damn day. And you wait it till efap to fall asleep
Yeah, we noticed
Look he's not he's not happy with you. Aiden. Look at his look at his dog sign. See that dog eater dog eater
I'm being dog-eared
I mean rags don't lie
Let's see button up his grievances. That's what that is right there
I have a right to protest in this podcast. That's true
Uh, so why didn't obi-wan's force ghost just go and kill the emperor and hit the self-destruct button on the death star?
Yeah, why not? You can react with the material world. Yeah, I mean
As far as saying hit the self-destruct button, but i'm sure there was an equivalent of such a thing
strike a lightning shot into like the most important part of it and that's
Yeah, you could have done that but he didn't
You know why because obi-wan is a cowardly idiot
That's what the sequel trilogy tells us don't even try to deny it
No, it's accurate
I sent a pic of efap with pregnant shrek because she wants she watches efap and she asked me what's going on
I told her I honestly don't know also say hi to sierra
Hello sierra
Hello
Hello. Hello
Hashtag maiden
Hashtag maiden m-a-y-d-i-n. Hashtag maiden is official efap cannon
Don't know what that m-a-y-d-e-n m-a-y-d-i-d-i-n. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I can't stand the other kind made in
Raggled drink a beer off with your bum
Oh
Okay
No
It's going in the uh going on the other end going in the front entrance not the back
I just gotta get myself a boo cinema. What are you against this rags? Really? Yes. I'm against this
First off waste of a good beer second off
I mean that it's got to come back out. Yeah, eventually some way
Horrifying
You and rags restore my faith in critical thinking also. Yes to universal language
Yeah, like I said
There's loads of hiccups to how you'd actually implement or even change anything to do that way that I obviously wouldn't be on board with
I'm just saying
It would be a pretty neat experiment just to see how everything goes if the whole world spoke one language and always didn't always will
Just like see how see how things change i'd be interested to see what happens
If anything changes, perhaps everything is just as it is who knows
Love you guys
greater than three less than
I think it's supposed to be a happy kiss face
some kind
I approve
I approve universal language equals cringy rage comic memes
Yeah, maybe
I don't have a small price to pay. I don't have any suggestions on implementation nor would I want to because holy shit
like many
pipe dreams
It's a pipe dream
Uh more confirmed to be skull face from mgs5
I have not played it
What yeah, it's pretty good. Yeah, it's it's good
I'd definitely recommend it. It's fun. I liked it. How about we just understood finish game, but it's still great. So
Uh
How about we just understood every language so we can speak to each other in our native languages and still understand each other
Hey, man
I'm on board with that too
If we all if we got to pipe dream it into succession that all of us understood all languages, that'll be cool, too
though I still think that
There would be a level of like you gotta you gotta make sure you're using the right inflections with the right language
This was a lot of complications. But yeah, if we can nail it all perfectly sure
Um now I really want alex jones to guest on efap so you can call mauler a filthy globalist
I would totally I would not only would I ask him what's wrong with my plan?
But once he explains it i'd probably be like alex you've educated me. Oh fucking
Please come back on here
Mola teach sign language as a global secondary language sign isn't just translating other language. It's its own thing. Keep cultural languages
I mean, yeah, that could be pretty cool sign language. I get everyone use sign language. That could be pretty interesting
See what happens with that, too
I want to run all kinds of unethical experiments where we take like
A group of 100 children and give them their own planet and watch them
Create their own culture. I love unethical experiments. Oh, yeah
But then people like you can't do that. Let's fuck that up. I'll be like, yeah, I know
It would be pretty cool though. Yeah, put the toys away. I mean like dang it. I'm sure
All right
I would love to see all those sjw's be forced to use language with gendered verbs slash nouns slash adjectives like polish
Yeah, I remember um when we were learning french
But they were like you gotta you gotta make sure using the
Male versus female like like elements of whatever and I remember being like oh man
This sounds complicated now. You're just like wow, how would that work for people who think that's offensive?
What do you do then fucked bro? No idea
Efap scares off this second female guest not good. See this is referring to when you first went to sleep
This isn't even when it's over second time
So
What makes good rat, I don't know sounds like some fairy shit though also. Hi rags
Hello
Buy some rhino milk one question i've listened to all of the efaps, but I think i'm missing the origin of tism
Where did that come from?
uh, I don't know if it's
Well, I know where it came from because I was using it as long as there have been men there have been men with
I've been using it on you folks since I got here, but I got it from drunken peasants and specifically
tj
they're talking about um
I can't remember what episode it was
But um, I think it's about ted cruz. He's making a public statement about mental health
And um, they're making jokes about how
He's got this like super southern accent. He's like they have their kids got the tism
It's just like oh my goodness. That's so funny to refer to it that way
And um, they start using it regularly and that's I start using it regularly with my friends
And it's sort of a funny word. That's all
And then I start using it all the time when I was with wolf and rags and that's at least my
uh contribution
I know wolf watched drunken peasants separately to me
So there's a good chance that he had it separately to me as a usage of word. I rags
Do you have do you know anything about your use of it beyond me and wolf?
Oh, I think I think this has just accelerated my usage. There you go. Yeah, it's it's a natural thing. It's a beautiful word
Uh typical i'm at disney will
On my last vacation day. I see efap is on I leave disney will get on a plane
I just barely landed and efap is still going never change long man. Never change. Oh, man. That's fucked up
Oh my god
Yeah, it looks like he had a full day of fun and then he had some efap to come back to you that's that's it's great
jesus
He had a full day of fun. And what did we fucking have?
We talked about quitting views views on tlj. That's something
Something what's something? Um, it would be come to the store with rags maula and me
I guess that was in reference to what jay was talking about
You
Yes, are we right I I just I I've forgotten exactly the context next one says I loathed math
Yeah, I I liked math until it got to non-math
I yeah, I had terrible table math
I I had terrible math classes until I got to graduate school though
So I would always say like you got to find a good math teacher
You know someone who wants you to actually learn and just want to be a dick
I'd say that's fine
Um snot come in his nose
Haven't heard maula laugh this much since patrick said the alien tip monster was his favorite addition to the star wars saga
See that was ages ago though, like me laughing and stuff. So
So long ago
Uh
Was getting on the pirates the caribbean ride when I saw efap live
Then I went on my last ride at the park left disney willed got my bags
Got to the hotel got on my bus went to the airport just landed now and efap is still going
Well, I mean, you know
It makes sense. We've we've we've we've now been going for five hours plus 11 16 hours
Makes sense. Yeah
Hello maula rags and genders
genders
Yeah, okay, I recommended superman kingdom come he's practically luke in tlj
Except he rises to the challenge and gets the fuck off the island
There's a motion comic on youtube and yes, you do get to look at women
Oh kingdom comes a great comic
Are you telling me that he doesn't want to kill himself on the island? He doesn't achieve this this goal
how would superman
Kryptonite grapes flying to the sun you would eat the kryptonite grapes
Kryptonite grapes
It's a really well shot movie written by an eight-year-old I think that's referencing clj
schadenfreude is from german and it's better understood in other languages because it gives the others a word to describe a concept
Where there was none before
Schadenfreude, yeah
Sure enough. Doesn't that doesn't like another word for like just everything's falling apart like cataclysm or
catastrophe a little bit, but it does have to do specifically with um
enjoyment of the suffering of others
Uh
Does the slab outlive the skin flap or jack?
Um, yeah, that's the thing. I don't know how long the slab lives for it seems to be infinite. I really don't know
If the slab gets broken, does she feel pain? What have you broke the slab in half? What's on the other side?
I'm picturing you slap it in half and there's just this fleshy like disgusting shit coming out of the center
And she's screaming and you're like, oh god, how can I make it stop and you keep hitting it?
To make it stop keep the beauty
I'm, sorry
I never thought about this but it's kind of confirmed that they have oral sex. Yeah, so like
You know how thick a slab of concrete is? It's not really all that thick
So when he sticks his dick in like where does it go?
down
That marinade there for a bit
Hmm down
Okay
Does what like it does you you you get an inch in and then it does a 90 yep downward
Yeah, it can feel weird, but it works
Anything for love right anything?
The doctor has committed genocide many times
Yeah, I believe so the Daleks being one of them, right?
But they were bad
Since when is maula?
Since when has maula arachnophobia? I was promised a woman and her beautiful voice. Could you please move up Anna, please?
Moreover high rags
Hello range
We have for mail we did it. This is the second one person. How could you?
Yoda versus sheave is bad. Skip to obi versus darth vader
I don't know. I like the yoda versus palpatine fight. I think it's kind of neat
Maybe i'm wrong. I need to see it again
Martial arts involve feints obi and anakin duel
Again, uh, if if someone like shad could explain some of those moves as feints and then i'd probably ask him
The practicality and actual like execution of those would be it could be very interesting. Well, uh
Faint is like well. He is pretending to
Make a convincing blow that doesn't yet. You don't actually follow through with so yeah, you get people to
Move their weapon to block a blow that they anticipate but actually you go somewhere else with it
You know, that's pretty useful very useful in lord. How certainly hi rags
Hello been a long time fan. I'm going to show a little monetary support
Also maula, please give this five to rags
Will do also finish your tfa critique i'm gay this is gonna happen
Seriously, the next question is about that too. These are two different accounts. How did they say the same thing at the same time?
This bullshit
When will we get tfa part three before episode nine comes out?
That's the intention. I cannot necessarily say that that is the the thing that will happen. I'm not 100 sure
Uh, the only example of a lightsaber having some real weight in the sequel trilogy is every time fin wields one
I mean
I haven't really felt you know
wait
Really the sequel trilogy obviously. I just kind of see it as all like yes, it's got his lightsaber out. He's doing his thing. I don't know
Now
Quinton tlj connects all of the movies also quinton. They're only sequels if you interpret them that way
The sequel trilogy is heavily standalone
It's a very confusing mess and it's the kind of thing that I'd probably ask him about if he was ever to come on the show
but
I mean
the likelihoods of that
You roll the dice and you have to roll a double seven the likelihood of him coming
Gonna be tough
I just talk about
B 111 that's eight videos always on efap. We can't talk only about stuff. What was that? That would never work
Even me and rags and I would be become bored. That's the practice grammar, right? All right
I can't even barely what I think he agreed with that
Tonal loki being choked by quinthanos. You'll never be a god
No, that means that locusta died to quinton. Oh, that would make sense. Yeah, it's shit
Salutations musselini jar jar and ragu
longtime watcher first time shackle dispenser say hello to wharf for me too also ripping pepperonis aiden paladin
Well, she's back hello wharf and riparoni paladoni
Please get the archive of this one up fast. I need my fix. Hi j. Hi rags. Hi random person with a drink. I don't know yet
Hello
Hello. Yes, the other one will go up as soon as this one is finished
I will sort that out as soon as I can mola j. What are wales and scotland's chances in the rugby world cup this year?
Jay wouldn't be able to answer that and I would probably not be able to answer that either
I'd have to go and ask my dad. He's very into it
I would give him I would allow him to have a full description of exactly what the chances are
um
over with y'all
Quinton likes tlj because he saw it three times and wasn't bored
Yeah, good enough reason to like anything am I right mules lee voice hello lady and gentleman
be one lady
Oh, I guess because the episode in which there was one lady I I follow
There's a bit of brain dying elements to this, right?
episode nine plot
They all go for schwarmer with the current mcu and discuss the awful prospects followed by coffee with batman and superman also. Hi rags
Hello
If jar jar is in episode nine, I want him to kill elper emperor palpatine
I'm not against it
If you're gonna bring back palpatine have him be killed by jar jar, I think that's fair
There's a request jar jar needs his moment to shine. Yeah, like a hero moment
I think we can all feel defeating the ghost of the evil evil emperor palpatine is the perfect way to do that
Uh, how long will episode nine's crawl be
I don't know. It's like holy fucking shit guys strap in
It just begins with okay, so there's a few things we need to go over that's what that's what it says
You're like, this is weird. This has been distracted. So you're probably wondering how I got here
Look
I still think that the best
Vision is gonna be the one where they just sit down on a sofa. They're like we need to speak one to one. Honestly
Introducing us to the horridness
Hi rags
Hello any interest in reviewing code vein
I haven't played it but it's kind of on my maybe list so potentially
Is naming a porg han worse than no one remembers what a y-wing is
Yeah
I think it's more fucked up for han to name a porg
It's for chewy to name a porg han
Than it is for just right to say no one remembers what a y-wing is
Just right. Yeah, but one of those is just blatantly false
True. The other one is the other one we could write it off as just writing it based on a potential
But the other one is in the film that happens at that point. You know what I mean?
That's actually I get if it happened and it was real. Well, do you mean
It happened the porg name happens in the film versus just right says people don't remember y-wings
All right, I mean because I've read out what it says in that case, it would be worse, right
Someone in chat said did aidan fall asleep for the fourth time it would be the third time the fourth time i'm all good
I'm all good. I can't have them lying about saying you fall asleep for the fourth. That's unacceptable. It's the third time
You got that, right?
Star Wars explained hit list club
um
Yeah, i'm assuming you guys may may or not be aware aware of this but jeremy pissed off star was explained enough that star was explained
Blocked anybody connected to him
and then
It blocked like half of his own audience by accident
It's like so many people were following so many people who were following jeremy in different ways and like even like I got blocked
And I was like, I don't even know who this person is
It was it was embarrassing, but i'm sure he feels great and that's an important thing
At molly you're reading super chats from an eight hours ago. That's your opinion
his
porg named han me
Execute order 66. They said that that's directed at rah
We shouldn't give him that kind of power
Um, it would make my name for each of you to say my name in the most sensual way possible
This name is burnt sausage
Burnt sausage
Right
I'm not the burnt sausage that you are looking for. My sausage is not burnt
it is
Like like a pale it doesn't get much sun, you know
So you'd say it's like a mildly
Old like a like a lukewarm sausage almost. No. No, it is hot as fuck
But not burnt
but not burnt
Are we talking about actually
Is the sensual way
Of saying it whether or not it is a burnt sausage. That's the case. So you could call something that whether or not it is that
You know
You can mislabel things. It's okay
What if instead of them saying that the kamikaze was their favorite thing?
They quoted patrick willams and said luke's space cow is their favorite thing
That would kind of be better because we wouldn't have to be sitting here wondering why the hell they thought that was in canon to have
Ship hyperspace into a bunch of other ships and destroys everything and wins the battle like that's not
Compared to luke drinking milk, you know damage wise
Is a different thing I would have preferred
Uh drunk efap is apex efap also high hasseem
No reaction from right. Oh, I thought you'd like that. Well, i'm not i'm not he's hasseem is a character
Yeah, i'm not really hasseem but hasseem is voiced by you give him life would be up to you
I
I don't think that it's time
hasseem
he just
He there needs to be
Something that really gets him to emerge, you know, you can't just trot out hasseem whenever we feel like it
Isseem is not your play thing. I get it
You know hodor was a better hero than holdo
Hashtag not my r with
Resistance colon hail hydra
Are you trying to say the resistance are actually the badminton's because I don't
Uh drunk mauler is the funniest more drunk streams. Yeah, but if they run for like
17 hours
Drunkenness really just comes and goes
You sober up before the stream's even over which is kind of where i'm at almost not really because i'm still dropping things
Uh, would it have been cleverer or clever?
Is is if instead of bbh shooting the coins out like afk'ing roger rabbit gag
He presented them to the code breaker as a pymt
Oh payment
Um payment
I mean kind of but you'd think that the the code breaker would find a way to be able to do something like that
On his own like you wouldn't need a robot
but maybe
Pablo is aragorn's useless horse execute order 66
Aragorn didn't have a useless horse. It saved him. He was in the river
It's a good horse
Fun fact pablo hidalga's balls are in kathleen kennedy's purse. I didn't know that
Uh hux is alfarias
Hydrodominatus for the emperor
My reference to 40k i'm thinking so i'm gonna assume so
I know I always hated luke because of his dad
Yeah, it happens. It's not like a complete recontextualization. It happens. Oh my god. She's alive time to guest her mom too
Now we've reached the super chat scene where she woke up for the first time
Haha, we're getting there. You see full progress
You know hyperspace ramming is explained by han solo in episode four as the falcon is being chased by the star destroyer
Other than that keep up the great content. Yeah, he says that if you don't plan out, um
The coordinates you can end up crashing into something which isn't exactly the same as obliterating an entire army
And hence why we don't necessarily think it follows
That you can obliterate an entire fleet with one ship
So a lot of people are just sitting there thinking wait, that's the thing
So how come they didn't do that before and then you have people being like well, of course
Because holder didn't think of it and then you have the double counter of but han talked about in episode four is a thing
That's possible. It's just like you've got two people who agree it's possible but have different reasons that conflict with each other
That's when it gets all very complicated, doesn't it?
Mm-hmm
Aidan is best guest other than special guest rags. Please come on more often also. Hi rags
Hello
Aidan's probably got more time per a single episode than pretty much any of our guests have
Even though some of it went sleeping was asleep. It still still counts possibly. I don't actually know
It's been light outside for me for a while. Oh, yeah, it's starting to get light outside for me as well
Hey guys, thanks for all the great faps and other content you make you've inspired me to start making my own videos
excellent
You do you sir least favorite to favorite dceu films
Justice league suicide squad jazam wonder woman man of steel bvs ultimate edition and aquaman
Fair enough. I kind of think they're all suck outside of wonder woman having a special mention of not sucking as much as the rest
I haven't seen jazam, but I I decided to be okay
Other than that, I don't know. I was told to expect it to be good
I watched it with a friend of mine and we thought it was terrible
so
I why I have no I have no faith in dc whatsoever. So it's really like whatever
but
Oh god
I don't know
I went to go see
man of steel
All hype because I love superman as a as a character concept
And I was like, I don't like zach snyder very much
But I maybe this will be okay
And then I was sad yeah three hours
They've all been you've joined a group of people who are sad it's okay
It happens with a lot of media if not old media at this point
It was the worst
I think that was my first time because I was like I was still like 23 or 22. I was so young
Relatively things didn't suck as much
Aidan force projects into efap reality passed out
There's lots of interpretations watch the long long man vids
It's a japanese kanday because it's one of those only points of long man good
Some people reference this like the long man gum whatever it is from like
Japanese ads it's like I reference one of them in tfa part two
It was from a video that I want to say e-man gameplay made. I think he did
Don't be wrong. I'm pretty sure he did
Bring metaka as a guest along with more er
Hey, i've got no contact with mr metaka, but I also doubt you'd want to actually guest on this because
I don't know what he's up to in his day-to-day
It's never too long mauler. You know, I stayed up the entire 50th special and still went to work
You know i'll do it again. I have no life. Oh
I mean this one's not going to be a 50th level 24 hour thing. It'll be fine
I'm going to get to the end of this before we hit that a hundred percent
I'm from wales mauler confirming. He does indeed have sex with sheep 2019
That was
But you're actually from well, i'm just I what do we call it? Um, I'm a uh,
So like in america, we call people who who are who are americans who pretend to be irish on like st
Patrick's day. We call them plastic patties
I figured what mine was was mine a um
What kind of sheep I don't remember
Silicon sheep is that a no i've not heard of it, but that sounds like it could be it
uh
We made it up. So i'm not sure
Very sad that aden does not snore could have been an epic stream. Yeah. Sorry. She didn't make enough noises
Sorry about that. I wasn't very epic. Sorry guys
Ekistan has the best flag ekistan doesn't beat out wales. That's bullshit
Sorry, no wales definitely still has the best flag. Yeah, they should have made their flag based after wales with kax
That's the way to do it to do have done it. There you go. That's english
to do that well
The next one says also i'm betting on a part two to this i'm praying
We are five and a half hours into part two
Yes, there is definitely a part two
Uh rabbits are based on bunny pills best pets
I've known people with bunny pets. I've never had a bunny pet myself
Any of you guys have experience with bunny pets
I don't know
Yeah, I don't know anything about uh them there
And then their rabbits
Why such a short efap gay yoda with aids that's apparently a quote from gay yoda with aids I didn't
Yeah, no, sorry we've been doing some short efaps lately
I will admit we fucked up on that degree, but we're gonna do some long ones at some point we will
Oh, please. Uh her screaming forgive me ruined the show
Do they mean about aden did you say that at some point or so else?
Did I scream forgive me? I don't know. I don't know what they might be referencing something we were watching. I don't know Buffy or
I don't remember doing that. I left it in my sleep. Oh goodness
I'm trying to think of who may have screamed forgive me and all of Buffy. I'm not
Oh, they probably referencing season six
Why would that ruin the show? I'd have to I don't I'm wait when she's talking to Tara about whether or not she is
Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, um
Hmm
She doesn't say certainly forgive me she says don't forgive me the point is yeah, yeah
I don't know. I like that scene myself, but hey, I like how much all season six and yeah, I've actually so whatever
Season six and five pretty damn good. Uh
Hey, becca, how is Nathan?
Oh, it might be from my son
My name is Becca, I'm pretty sure that's my my son. Uh, Nathan's my uh adopted alaskan child
Okay
And you find someone from the alaskan wilderness who's
You know like an 18 year old kid and you go
Let me show you how to play dota
My child and then that's then you hang out for the next 10 years
Well, uh, thank you rags you man of culture the isle of man has the best flag screw y'all
Okay
In honor of ra I believe after the fight they threw the white dragon off the roof
Yes, the wales would have done that because they'd be like ours is objectively the better dragon
Exactly. I said rags would love that flag very manly
The three legs. Yeah, sure. I don't disagree. Yeah
That's what you call a pretty good flag wales was conquered and incorporated into the kingdom of england
But the welsh can fib about dragons. So I guess wales wins in the end. Yes
Exactly. That's what's important. That's what's important
It's just a cheap swastika
This flag was the origin of the fidget spinner
So
This flag equals mauler's ocean man, I mean
I laughed at ocean man as well
Uh, what have we done? We've humanized mauler. He has emotion. Dear god have mercy
Who needs a wheel when you have three legs? Yeah, I don't disagree
Uh push tri leg over starts beyblading
Feel like it would struggle to get any kind of traction
The leg swastika of the boreal valley, yeah, I know that reference that's
doxels three reference
Fucking i'm up on my shit. I know what's going on. Uh, cicely flag. Look it up
Did did we look at the cicely flag? Yeah, we did. Okay
Did we shmola the average efap gets longer and longer as time goes on next year
Y'all need 20 hours to go over a two minute video and super chats
Yeah, that sounds like it could be possible. You never know
Shad draw the isle of man flag giving birth. Oh, no
I guess that's yeah, that's a reference to shad
The other shad not the shadders. Come on here shad new idea for fantasy rearmed the tri leg
Yeah, I wouldn't mind seeing a video from shadow bursty exploring the validity of a tri leg weapon, you know
Um just here to give you some money though the isle of man flag bit was some primo rat
Yeah, it was some good rat. I can agree
Three legs is a celtic symbol for the sun
I didn't know that
Why couldn't they just have two? Yeah, obviously. Well, it makes sense because when you look at the sun
I don't know what you but I think man, that's like three legs
That's really what I see at least three like I don't know. See i'm weird. I see it as sort of like a bull
Or a sick great glowing spleen in the sky
It's different
Yeah, I guess we all see something different in the sun. I'm okay with this it happens
Uh rags pork blast my butt until my ars hole whistles
Mm boy
Rags, what are your flowing there? Don't worry rags. What are your thoughts on the ranger class in dnd?
I haven't played it enough to tell but it's a it seems to be so far from what I did play
a really good
Because I played a spellless ranger for the campaign that we did
Wait, but what what what was it though? Was it a dnd?
This is dnd fifth edition the one I played. Okay, never mind. I was gonna just good range damage dealer
Uh pretty simple and straightforward
It had a little bit of healing for mostly after combat stuff, but it could put out some serious damage at range
Really good survival checks and perception and
um, you know things like that that could help and
Keeping food and stuff. You got a lot of good bonuses for crossing terrain, but I gotta tell you that goes great damage at range
I gotta tell you something real quick. I've had a little bit to drink, but i'm gonna be honest with you
my dude, um
I think you almost killed doom
uh
like just because
You were asking him questions that he had no capacity to answer the other day
uh, yeah
Well only because because it's like because bill wasn't DMing anymore
And I think you almost killed doom
Is that a constant thing that's gonna happen?
like is is bill gonna how long is
like
Um, I I don't know
I don't know how long go uh
Because because doom has his own story he wants to tell so it'll be when you know doom
Well, it should be the story that's unfolded by what the players do ideally, right?
Yes, one would assume doom was was wanted to run the radija campaign. Sorry everyone who's listening
We are i'm briefly talking about the fact that again
We play pat binder every week
it's what
It's one of the well, one of the issues was like we really hurried up like a bunch of the court stuff
And like that we just got it down and swept it under the rug and i'm like
Oh, I thought there'd be like implications to this
Probably should have been more in in large part. That's a problem because you know, then naka and bill came here to the u.s
For like three weeks
Yeah, and that made shit all fucked up and now i'm
going there
Yeah, because I like I was taking notes on like things that I should do that i'd been told I could do
Like go to the go to this place for this thing
I was like, okay
That's all my little list of things to do is like you have to go get this pick that up. It's being appraised
It's like, okay, go pick this up and I have all this stuff listed out. I I actually spend a fair amount of time
because I use um
Uh wps office for my little yeah things and so I have like a pretty fucking baller sheet
That's got all my attack info and i'm i'm not very knowledgeable about a lot of this
So i've got all the the calculations for like attacking and damaging and the smiting evil and things like that
And I got all this stuff listed with all a bunch of links
It's actually quite impressive and i'm proud of it
And i'm like man, I didn't get to use like any of these notes that i've been taking because we're just like nope
You're going here in the morning
Okay, I I I get that but it's like there's nothing we could do about it
Because I guess not because they were just like you know, you're just going i'm like, well, no because because me
We well
We did tell you the week before that doom is gonna take over and that bill wasn't gonna be dm'ing
And there's like even so like for me, like I was trying to open my chakras and and and doom doesn't know about that
So like without bill there, I can't really do that stuff and and he's trying to not dm because he never gets to not dm
so
I mean dm'ing would be something i'd be interested in doing
Systems quite at the moment
Ask bill about it. He'll he loves teaching people how to do that. I might actually do that. I might be interested in. Um
DMing a dnd pathfinder kind of game. I feel like all the video games
Efap kind of stuff that i've done can really help with a lot of that
But still like whenever I make an attack like have to be like, okay
I think there's one d20 plus my mab
Masterwork, so add a plus one and then i'd think about the bonuses I have, you know
I I kind of got to go through it and things like that, but that'd be something i'd be interested in doing
But I think i'm like we got to cap it at like four people
Oh, yeah
But uh, yeah, if you have any questions about that just ask bill
I I will seriously consider that that might be something I uh
Are accusing me of falling asleep or forgetting things i'm like i'm letting them talk
Oh, yeah, we got distracted
Oh, you got no, it's not your get that's chat. Let people discuss it. I'm not supposed to just be like no guys stop
I don't care if you wanted to say stuff. We're talking about completely i'm okay with that because i've made you suffer through hours
Of everything else like quinton like did you did you sign up for this? No, maybe but no i'm being kind of
I mean I signed up for life. We don't really sign up for it
uh
Anyway, i'm going to grab myself a drink. I'll be right back. Go for it
Uh, what a show you massive so much new lore
Uh, I don't even 100 remember all of the lore, but yes
You guys i'm still watching part three episode 50. I don't know if i'll ever catch up. Keep it up. Hi rags also j
yo
Well, you've ruined your notes for gedelb. No, no, I don't know
I'll make they'll make sense to me. Don't worry. It looks like maula has a crush boys and girls
We can only hope for more links
Uh, the biting elbows bad motherfucker music video was the proof of concept for hardcore henry give that a watch it's on youtube
No, you'll find the proof of proof of concept for hardcore henry was in doom. Isn't that right rags?
Oh
That was quite that was quite the segment and it was honestly a terrible one
I don't there's something I liked it
But it was we laughed at it. Yeah mauler. We laughed at it
We made fun of it and it tried to be serious. And what did we do?
The one where he shoots he shoots the zombies axe and it fucking slams into the act of the head of the zombie and it's like
What how does that but
There's a lot of that it's funny though. The zombie's laughing at him as he turns the corner or whatever. Yeah, okay
Yeah, I agree
Look up zela nogorsk flag and kingdom of calmeria
We have to look at flags zela nogorsk is a zela nogorsk is a city in day z
What's the zela nogorsk flag?
I'm clicking
Wow is what?
Google's being weird. It shows new results. Wow, that is that is actually fucking amazing. I'm gonna here
Uh, look at this. This flag is actually really sweet. All right, give me this is a ball and ass flag
It's a bear splitting an atom oh
That is super cool hey the soviets didn't fuck something up
Guys we got a flag it's an attack. It's uh, apparently it's the atomic testing town of zela nogorsk russia
That's cool. I like it
That bear I like that bear's not taking any restrictions he's like, no i'm doing this
Happening that bear is splitting an atom now. We gotta show the chat if you haven't but it's really they can say it
It's fucking sweet man. That's a cool flag. That's way better than the three legs bullshit
How could you say that you're supposed to be pro three legs
Uh been out of the loop for a bit more. What was your thoughts on far from home?
I'm not crazy for thinking it was terribly written, right?
Well, I don't want to say too much because i'm actually wanting to watch it with rag soon
But um, i'll tell you this much fringy loves it
I think it's good
But it's got this what which movie far from home. It's the second spoodman. I love it. Oh, i haven't seen it
So, uh, I bet you were saying about something else, but I would never go as far as saying it's terribly written now. All right, so, uh
We did have a we have an efap on it rags was not present obviously
um, but we talked to shad about the plot of far from home in an efap, uh, you can go check that out with
that's got fringy me and shad and
Is it jay, I can't remember who else is in that efap, um, it feels bad, man
Um, it was a while ago. I can't remember all of the efaps
um
molarid aden sitting in a tree k-i-s-s-i-n-g i'm assuming this is because of the fact that we both like buffy
That's entirely what it's based on. I swear to god
I just I don't meet many people who like buffy. That's all that is
uh
Darkness fools could have been good, but they ruined it in the first scene by showing them. They don't show the monster
you see the creatures
Outward appearance if you will
But you don't see what it looks like until the end for realsies
That's what makes good horror though. Yeah, and and I don't know don't show don't tell that's my opinion
They don't show a lot of hair. Um in the opening scene, but you definitely get enough. I don't know. I think it works really well, but
to be
displayed eventually
I i'll make i'll make rags watch it mj and wolf i'll talk about how terrible slash good i'm so tired
I know you can go to sleep rags. I don't it's okay
It wouldn't be the same you you you haven't you haven't slept now for uh, I mean it would be different
Like i'd be asleep. It's obviously different
You haven't been asleep for like 17 hours rags
I haven't been asleep for a long time long long man time a long man time
And again, this will help me get this will help me catch up on the sleep that I definitely don't need to catch up on
It's like oh boy even more sleep hooray
Like super chat just says no you are gay
What day is today?
Yes, monday. Fuck. No, it's monday. Yeah, it is monday right there
Oh my god, uh
Um
That was the greatest plot summary read by welsh
Good job. That was that was oppressive. You did a very good job
Morla add this to the 25 I gave you this morning buy avatar last airbender on blu-ray promise. Don't buy more wine with it
Don't drink wine. I don't like wine. Are you a wineman?
I'm a spiritsman
Yeah, i'm like i'm here for wine myself for the most part if I do drink wine always white don't really care for
Were the reds? I mean you don't care for oh, so you prefer the whites I see
I do prefer the whites buy is confirmed. I was gonna say it's nice to finally get it out in the open
I will admit
a chilly white
Uh, and then it ends with saying good morning aden
Good morning. Yeah, it's morning for you folks. Now. It's the afternoon for me. This is getting a little intense, isn't it?
It's it. Well, it's what it's one o'clock. It's six hours until I go
Is it six hours until i've been up for 24 hours? What the fuck?
It feels like an afternoon. It shouldn't have happened, but it did
Uh subnautica scared me more than anything else. I haven't played it, but i've heard that it's it can be creepy
I've heard this
A terror is a long building feeling horror is shock
I don't know where this has come from but i'd be willing to accept those as technicians. I don't know. I don't have to look into it
I'm a well because I love horror and I think that
to be truly
Terrified and I mean like do you see that horror is shock and terror is a long building feeling
I I don't know if that the the linguistic
Illumiation is accurate, but there is a difference between
like
Being startled which is yeah
That's a cognitive heuristic your brain can't help but be startled
Like if I mean, you know, yeah, that's why jump scares are shit and I if they happen to me
I'm like, oh that's lazy and I don't like it myself. I don't hate old jump scares
Then all yeah, some jump scares are heard
But man, they're they can be cheap as shit and when they happen
I like uh, I kind of check out and I roll my eyes
Because like yeah, good job. You surprised my brain. Yeah, you worked really hard on that. Good job
But terror I love terror. I don't really I don't really like horror, but I love me some terror
I yeah, I like that again. Like I said like the I don't know if i'm comfortable with those definitions
I I like long
slow burning horror in that
Uh, but I mean I I love yeah, i'm done with that void. The void is great. I fantastic film. Love it
I'm big on atmosphere, you know, but I because I again, I would recommend she I she called you films of being like
a movie that's done cinema verite or um
I don't know if you want to call it cinema verite whatever but it's
It's
Three hours long and quote nothing happens in it, but it's just the i'm pro terrorism
Yeah, so so oppressive
It's great this it's honestly it's a whole conversation that we are not in the position to be we can have next fucking week
Sorry, thank you. Oh god, it'll be this week. Won't it? Oh, yeah, it'll be this week. It'll be this week now
Thanks all you lads for all the great content
I credit efap for helping me develop my taste and understand objectivity
This episode is the one-year anniversary of me watching one year of efap
Wow, you remember that which is weird
Strange but i'll yeah cool. I'll take it heart. That's great. We're glad to have you for a year
Odd that you remembered that
Um is face tile agenda pansexual lando like
I don't know
Face tile genders. That's a whole field that i'm not familiar with aden. You might know about face tile genders. What what's the deal?
What face tile genders
I have no idea. Uh, it's she'll i'm sure she'll read some psycho paper about it or whatever psycho paper
Yeah, I could I could agree with the sleepy dog. I I actually don't know what it is, but I can I mean
The the doctor who's a person in the pile doctor who?
Was she asleep for that stretch?
Oh shit, well, you know, she was talking. She was there for the absorbal off. You were there for the absorbal off, right?
No, I think I might fall asleep. She was here only in
Technicality he was not here in the city
Well, you remember the episode with the absorbal off of doctor who right? Do you know what i'm talking about?
Yeah, so like you remember the tile person at the end of the episode
Oh, right, okay, yeah, yeah, right is that a gender?
I like that I work to help you understand a question that makes no sense
That was that's what that was just then I feel I feel bad now it didn't matter she's doggy or anything
What do you think of the halloween franchise you like horror you'll be aware of the halloween franchise
Yeah
No fan. Oh wait
What do you think of slashes in general?
I don't really care for slash aden. Why haven't we met sooner?
I don't i'm a huge fan of horror and I don't like slashes
That's what I said that shit too and you fucking ignore
Put off. Wait, sorry, who are you for the for the new guest the shiny flashy new guest
You can't even stay away free fat. You're rags, right?
I dropped my fucking mic on the floor
No, I always thought I was in the minority honestly when I because i'm a big fan of horror myself, but when I watch slashes
When I was a younger age, I didn't get it. I was like, why are these good?
Is that like they oh they screamed and died
But you know, you know, I I've said this on stream before I think predator ruined slashes for me
Because predator is like one of the best slashes you'll ever watch
Actually scary though
You've got a really powerful intelligent enemy against really powerful intelligent people who make good decisions
That's why I like it. No, we have to split up
Halloween
Yeah, maybe if we split up in the woods we'll find safety fans no
Halloween nightmare on elm street
Even though I like nightmare on elm street. It just doesn't the thing I like about everyone. So is is the dream aspect
It's cool. Look the dream aspect. Yeah. Yeah, but like friday the 13th as well. It's just like, okay, just kill him
I don't know. I don't care. None of these people are
likable
Don't give a fuck
No, um, no for me, uh, I find that uh, that kind of stuff is is boring but um, the in terms of the slashers and
the the more physical
Horror stuff what's the best is?
Horror that can't be quantified. Um horror that is um existential
That's good horror
Because aden do you like soma?
Yeah, good. That was the correct answer
That is the only correct answer
Have you ever seen plague of gripes? Do you guys know him?
No, no
Okay, he's a do you uh know the two best friends play kind of guys?
Okay. Well plague of gripes is a associate. I suppose if there is he has a series on youtube
It's a bunch of I think altogether. It's maybe 30 minutes long, but it's just called. Um,
Let's gripe about horror and he animates it
And it's his opinions on horror and it's a mate. He's completely correct about almost everything of just being like
Okay
What's what makes something scary? Is it scary because i'm oh, it's a spider. Oh my god. Now we've come full circle
17 hours later
Is it scary because spiders are scary or is it scary because I have a personal fear of spiders rather than trying to limit yourself
to as a creator
Rather than trying to limit yourself to being like oh, well, some people are afraid of spiders. You have to be able to
Connect with with true universal fears which are more based on general concepts
It's what it's about, you know when
When it turns into the spider in the book or as proceed as the spider that's just some one person's
interpretation of what it is
Because it is a manifestation of fear
That's cool shit, I love that kind of stuff
I just I love fears as a concept rather as a manifestation of whatever you believe
That you're afraid of uh fear that almost like makes your brain do all the work
In some ways can be much more effective than i'm assuming you've seen hostel
Where I was watching that and I was like, all right. Yeah. Oh, that's gross. You really you chopped that guy up neat
Got him. Oh, look at that flesh. Yeah pouring all of that. That's gross
Like okay. Yeah, that just doesn't do it for me. It's like
Watch a clip on youtube maybe and just get the same thing I guess
Uh, where am I?
Apparently remarkable republican wants on efap. He said he reached out or something. Can you confirm or deny?
All I know is that apparently he said he wants to debate and he put a comment on one of the videos saying that like
I've kind of covered it earlier, but me and rags are not exactly like
I don't care whether or not c3po is a gay butler. I just
Yeah, I just don't care. Sorry. That's kind of where we're at right now. Um,
It's just as father heart
Far like oh maybe they're addressing you right me as father
I don't know but
Father and the next one just says I nutted
Well, I mean I almost did congratulations i'm proud of you
if a lesser man probably
I don't even know how I would finish that
A lesser man dot dot dot
Uh, what do you think of robin hood men in tights?
Very amusing
Funny j j j pry fucking hates it and he shit. What do you mean? But we love it. It's great
It is great. You know what? I have to we should have addressed that
The the the shock of j hating spaceballs isn't the fact that he hates it. It's the fact that he's seen it at all
It's like whoa. Yeah, like it's it's a compounded shock that he's seen it
And he hates it. It's like whoa. Whoa. We're still reeling from the shock of the first one
Don't hit us with the follow-up combo shot yet. Jay. Give us a moment to steady our
combo
Shitty opinion has rags ever been with another man. I need to know so I can add it to the lore
Yeah
Uh also hi mauler. Hello. Oh shit. I mean rags
Oh, I mean oh shit
Yeah, I can still i'm still here
Serious super chat time. I don't know if it's been asked but what do you think of 250k fine for calling someone an illegal alien
in new york city
I think it's obviously stupid
You can be fine that much. What's what's the most offensive thing that I could say about a a um undocumented?
Um migrant an occupant did did prove that you came from space and you did it illegally
It's like a homeless person. They're not they're they're in between opportunities
I mean i'd like to find the most offensive thing just to say it just because hey as long as I still have my first and second
amendment rights
250k
Holy shit, that's new york. I don't live in new york. I'd have to i'd have to google the deets on that because that sounds
crazy, that sounds like
Uh j er and easy peasy guest for steven universe efap movies make it happen
Uh, you're an easy peasy. I'd love to see happen discussions about uh
steven universe
I mean the problem is it requires either me or rags or both of us to be there me and rags
Don't give a single fuck about steven universe
I'm sure rags doesn't even know what it is
Okay
Jada's hey, but right she's not she's just a guy
You know, he's not one of the he's not just the man. They should all they should i'm just saying
They should all have a conversation with each other. Well get jada hosted. He's got a channel do it. Hey do it
Yeah, yeah, easy peasy. Apparently things do that
Yeah, you guys probably have you guys have you understand that when you had him on here live?
Is it the first time he's I think he's ever been on a live stream with anyone? Are you talking about?
Yeah, yeah, he told us that
their fucking minds
Yeah, I did realize that we were the ones who christened him into the live world
But uh, we're gonna try and get him back as well. He came on for the 50th too. He's he's um
It's crazy. He said that he'd only ever
Been other than what he when he talked to us. He said he'd been in one other call
And he'd never been live because they because I he and I have talked a couple times
Mostly publicly, but i've tried to get him on shit before
He's elusive. He is a he's an elusive bastard in a good way. He's a sneaky man
Um sneaky man, the sneaking
Uh, we'll make it happen. Also. Hello jay. Hi rags
Hello
Hello more hello
I put bend a snatch cumber bunk as a gedelb. Thanks. I can't put him as a gedelb. That doesn't make sense
You want me to do his voice for gedel because you know the gedelb voice has to stay the same
That's the one thing that remains consistent about gedel
uh
Nice to hear the term fander snatch cumberbund though. It's using my favorite version of that nickname
Really? There's so many good ones though
I like really like the under snatch cumberbund
It's a good one. There's a couple I heard that were pretty good from uh between two fans. Let me off
There's there's a generator online
But what was the one he says, uh
I had um, I had a
Cucumber bumblebee one time. Oh, it's that one
Instead of benedict. He says benefits and then instead of cumberbatch. He says like
Something like a profession and like he says benefits
Wait, we're talking about been coming on pumperdink. We need to get to the next
Go forward
I just it was funny. I can't remember what it was though
Nice to to hear that. It's cool to be born in october. My son's birth is due in less than a month
Oh, well, that'll line up perfectly. Oh
Congratulations
Cool to be born in october
Even though batwoman as a tv show will be born in october. I'm so sorry about that. You'll never forget
Uh went to sleep woke up still going wow. Hi rags
Hello
Stick deaths in steven universe efap movie for fun
I don't why do we have to watch steven universe for efap movies? Can we do things like doom doom is better?
Sorry
Rewatch red letter media half in the bag on force awakens
Not good. Jay said it's better than return of the jedi because the characters like han got to do stuff
Again, the one thing you've got to really consider with that and i'm not i'm not trying to defend their takes as uh
in
What's the word uncritusizable? I don't know. Um, but they did record it like they usually do which is immediately after seeing it
Which if I had done that
I would have said a whole bunch of things that I would now be like you you're full of shit. That's not true
so
Also take into account that now like every video they make fun of those movies. Yeah
Yeah, add them constantly if you want us to like say the video on force awakens half in the bag isn't very good
So yeah, that's fine. But if you want us to say like address their take on it and judge it from that video
I'd be like, I don't think that's their take anymore
Um, yeah, I think it definitely started it. They've definitely shifted
I'm so addicted to efap that i'm watching rewatching every episode hola rags
Hola
as a hawaii
Pineapple on pizza is racist and gay
It is both of those things and I do not support it
Hate has no place on this pizza. Yes
agreed
Uh, my favorite doggo my favorite paladin mola. I found you through tlj and loved the video j
I will have to look into your content
Uh aden your thoughts on young justice blue beetle and season three or s3
Okay. Well, I haven't seen it. I know it's out. I haven't seen it yet, but
Young justice was amazing. I have to watch the new season just haven't seen it yet. So I can't give any more opinions other than that but
King justice is amazing blue beetles a great character
of all all blue beetles
Both haimin radius and um, uh ted cord so
Yeah, i'm genuinely happy with that stuff
the end
right
Can we have an intervention that every time someone is a tlj apologist we just get them on and do an intervention
They don't always come on quinton would never come onto this podcast
So oh hell no like the idea looks like just bring him on it's like we can't just bring him on
It's not gonna happen
No, I mean lately tried to do that with um
On you know quinton also got a lot of flack from uh
Stayed the youtube podcast with number 11
Yeah, well we we went off the following podcast made rags. Did we also the one after you remember that rags?
Which one now?
Were you you did you guys go on? Um stay the youtube. Yep. We went on soon after quinton did because we had some insight
That was funny shit
Oh, wait. Yes. Yes. I do remember that now actually shit. Okay
uh
They at least got him to come on and talk
because usually the way that he yeah responds to his detractors is just
haters just haters
And and blows it off, but he went on their thing. So I don't know
If you wanted to if you really wanted to get quinton on you probably should talk to em blemmon or somebody like that
I guess
Gonna be unlikely to ever he really doesn't like me like he's got a big stick up his butt about me
Like not even just quinton. Yeah. Yeah, like i'm pretty sure he has issues with rags as well
But I have a feeling that he really doesn't like me because what we found out from different sources
He thinks you're all he thinks you're all nazis. He certainly thinks I am now
I couldn't believe he didn't have me blocked until I mean now he does. Yeah, you made sure to fix that
Oh, yeah
Oh, oh, absolutely. He did because basically yeah, he got fucking butt blasted that
people um tagged him when I released my video on him and
And
Shortly after then he decided to drop contra points and and decided to abandon his new queen
Because she was getting canceled and we have to always go along with whatever we think will get us the most
fucking views
You know what?
I'm gonna go back to monday matt for a second
There was something that monday matt said in all those audio leaks where he said like I don't understand
I gotta figure out like how to act like a normal human so that I can get views
and the thing is
dude
If you have to pretend to act like a normal human
I don't think it's gonna work out for you, man
If you're not a normal person then be an interesting person who's just not normal that people wouldn't want to see
Well, i'm a massive autist
According to my fans
But if if you have to be like, oh I have to like plan out how i'm going to act like a normal normal person
That's the kind of shit
That makes people not like you
Of having to pretend to be a person
To pretend to to react normally to shit, which is what I think quinton's doing a lot when uh, I first released those tlj critique videos
Apparently quinton was intending to annihilate them. That was his goal
Like i'm gonna make a response directly to them. He only gave up because of how long they were
Which is just brilliant considering long man bad. Yeah, I just
This is what I mean when they generate the narrative. I make them long to stop people from responding to them
I'm just like, uh, you could literally just take a portion
Respond to a piece of an argument i've made as long as it's full because the idea isn't that
Another theory is like I I will always have extra context to justify my awful position, right?
Like i'll say
Poopy bad and then they go see he said poopy bad and I go but later I say the poopy bad means poopy good
So you're wrong and that that's how they they think I work
but like when I say
Canto bite
As a whole it's like just a single criticism that they left the kids behind and it's pretty fucked up
You can address that there's not going to be any additional context. I'm criticizing rose
As being someone who's desperate to to represent those who are downtrodden
He frees those animals. She just doesn't give a shit about the slaves
It's weird
It doesn't make a lot of sense
It shows poor character on her part as well as fins you can address that there's not going to be some kind of weird
Well, that's you know what?
I i've had this issue myself because again, I make
weird like hour plus long videos about social science
And people will oftentimes bring up very pedantic tiny little things and it's like okay
Does it have anything to do with the overall meaning of what i'm saying?
And that is the problem where when people have come after me they've come after
my person
My personality, you know, um my appearance stuff like that
It doesn't matter because they know that having to actually take a look at the argument
And put it in context
Even if you only want to take out like a 20 minute period and criticize that which you're more than welcome to do
That you still have to put it into the context of the entire piece
instead what I found people do exclusively is cut something out of context and then just use a
15 second clip and repeat it and blast it over and over
And just say this this is representative when
Everyone who knows anything about it knows that it's not
It's just um, that's the frustrating part of all this shit. Oh, I had the same thing happen to me
Uh, I was making an argument about how if you think so like anything you reference in a movie being bad be it
Inconsistencies of character plot world, whatever
uh
If you treat that as a bad thing in a film but maintain that tlj is good
Then you're being a hypocrite and I I phrase it in a way that can be cut out
Where I say that um
If you say that tlj is good good luck trying to argue that other films are bad
Before that I reference all the shit that's relevant to that point
but people cut out and they argue that what i'm trying to say is that um, you're not allowed to like anything if you
Think the last no you're supposed to like everything if tlj is good because you can't dislike anything else if tlj is uh
Not bad
It's pedantry. Yeah, it's like of course. I'm not saying that that's never something I would say
You just like argue against something that's a bit more substantive, please but quinton
One of the things he argued against yes
It what's always about trying to find a gotcha on it, you know
Not about actually arguing in good faith and understanding and and and being reasonable about what you know, the other person is arguing
um
I found this for years now in my time doing shit on youtube that generally speaking people will just
Make up the most unfavorable
version of the argument that they could possibly
Pretend that you are having
It has nothing to do with reality. It's just all bullshit
Uh, and and quinton is certainly one of those people who kind of goes along with that sort of shit. So not surprised
Yeah, quinton quinton doesn't have the greatest reputation represent rep
I would try to combine representation and reputation in the same word for no reason represent representation
I feel like my brain might be melting but
That would i'm fucking yeah, that would make sense. So
kicking on
um
This is for dale's use of southern accent when someone speaks in a southern accent you're supposed to sound dumb
But on the flip side sound more sincere. It's a give and take accent. Uh, I wished another got it as well
I mean when dale used it as I believe fringy highlighted who's mainly using it
But this is stupid person accent or at least that's the message we got. I don't think it was trying to be sincere
Even if he was trying to be since like trying to represent sincerity
It's not exactly a good thing because he was always trying to put across bad points with it
So it's like I sincerely believe these bad points again, not not
Uh luke doesn't count remember what remarkable republicans said he's an aged lesbian. You're only halfway there
halfway there quinton round two anyone
A remarkable republican feels that luke is a lesbian
I'm not sure exactly what it means for the star wars franchise as a whole, but it is definitely something he stands
I woke up efap was running i'm going to sleep efap is still going good night
someone in chat said uh
How long is this going for?
Like as soon as I finish super chats, that's how it always works. I'm still not quite there yet. I'm getting there
I see your hyphen unhyphen reading super chats
I see you are hyphen unhyphen
Gonna gonna move on because the time it would take to decipher that might
This is objectively the lamb sauce
Martha
There's a lot of deciphering that has to happen with these super chests and like it's only going to delay me trying to figure them
out as riddles
um
Why did you say that name?
The time of his superman was a very good film according to some people aden is the best guest she's broken everyone
Oh, no, did you break everything?
Did I?
By what just passing out
In front of her my lack of I don't know does that mean you broke it
This is officially the greatest episode of all-time hashtag maiden
And uh
Fair enough if this is the greatest episode of all-time
I'm assuming they're referring to 44 rather than 45 all both. I don't know
As an actual christian who would argue that religion and science aren't contradictive
Everything about what the teacher said was wrong and idiotic. This is the thing
uh, she she was very aggressive under the second
I this this
wide-eyed naive student saying
Different things about stuff i'd learned she could have handled it way better
But you get that uh in different places religious educators that are very much like hey
I'm trying to save you from damnation idiot. Oh
Oh god, yep, what does the welsh red dragon picture mean?
uh
Red dragons, like I said, all I know it's art. It's art. It's arthur's crust
Fucking badass doesn't need to need anything on the fucking dragon. It's an arthur as an uther pen dragon
Yes, what is the crust of arthur? What is what does the japanese flag mean? Is it a butt?
Is it an anus the rising sun? No, but it also is a butt. It's a big red. It's a red angry asshole
It's an angry asshole
Holy shit, this has been the greatest efap dying
Yeah, we are dying is a good word. Uh, can someone answer this age-old question? How does owl swim through tree?
Swims through a tree
Also, hi rags
Hello thanks, how does owl swim through tree
How does a owl swim through the tree
Oh
The owl spreads his wings
And he flies swim through the leaves through with the tree is claws. He pulls. Oh god, fuck
Oh
Yes, that's how owl swims through tree
We can't trust. Oh, sorry put that name of the town into gedelb. I'm not doing that
We have to get it from a video essay. We can't just throw it in from random things. We heard
Gedelb has some structure
We can't trust jimmy because they invaded a bunch of places a british man, I mean it's true
They did invade a bunch of places. Can we really trust them after that? I don't think so
I'd like I'd like to question that logic. That's that's just
Ah good another classic efap. I get the notification at work you're live. I come back home and settle in still going 11 hours later
She is massive
Yeah, you're not wrong. We're we're at 17 hours
Oh my god
Sanity is not statistical. That's relevant now, too. Yes. Sanity is not statistical
I want an intermission meme where mauler is in a straight jacket over the difference in the english language and in and the silent p
in simpsons
Not a silent p. I can kill you
Simpsons
Simpsons. Wait, let's be let's be very clear about this. I can do this one right? How the fuck do you pronounce?
I
Well, let's start with an a bill
We say that again. Sorry
How do you pronounce that that metal?
What metal aluminium? I can't pronounce it
Aluminium aluminium yep lead
No aluminium
Yeah, the business you should be asking is rags. They'll be because you'll fuck iron. Oh, okay rags. How do you pronounce that metal?
what metal
aluminium
You mean aluminum?
It's okay we'll convert rags one day
Oof
Goodbye my n-words. No
Farewell all my massive. See you in efap 55. Oh
I oh that makes sense. Of course, because we transferred over. Please watch my memes also. Hi betrags
I don't
Hello
Hi end of episode 54 congrats you long man. Hi rags and that's it. Oh god
Now we're into episode 55
Now we're at this. We're at six hours ago
Yeah
I'm gonna go
episode
Yeah, and then passed out
Dusty can go to sleep whenever he wants
Such a good meme, but most people won't have any idea what you mean by that
Go to sleep whenever he wants
Ah their tears of joy, I promise uh, okay, so
This chat is between streams
Yeah, I mean it probably was actually don't you shouldn't cross the streams
And this one says this is my favorite part
That's it's an underrated meme. I reckon it needs more
This is my favorite part is like
It's a perfect meme
I want to say that. Uh, hello rags
Hello
You handsome naughty doggo
I would like to attempt pronouncing that long welsh word while you rest your thick papa haunches on my face. Oh my oh my
You know what you want? Yeah, that guy
He was very clear about it. Just say the name of
Weird fucking welsh towns while you sit on my face
It's a it's a fetish. I don't know what what dave it has but it's one specific but you know
Yeah, it's a little specific. Hello all my neighbors super chat edition
Ah, perfect. At least I know this one will be on at least three hours while I wake up for work. See you soon
Oh my god, he's right three hours
Let's double that
Double that
Oh god, I just realized I wrote four thousand. They're just straight fuck
Um
Go to bad long men and long women and long they men. Oh, let's get trying
What is this
so in in from the stream labs, it says
Grazorges
Grazeka zigal wits
Trezaga zigas or zeiss powitz
Lids coddly I believe is that russian? I don't
Want to i'll post it for you guys in the uh, oh wait, it disappeared. Oh, i'm, sorry
I don't know how to get it back. I clicked the thing
It was it was a collection of strange letters and words that I don't know the well
I'm, so sorry. I don't think the appropriate phrase
For a time like this, you know what? I know it. We all know it. We'll say it together
Heels are flat the suko bleat. Yeah, that's the
It's hill hills high western spy hills flat suko bleat
Flat suko maula after my breaking bad video. I want to cover a movie
Which of the four mcu russo brother movies should I make a long-form critique video on?
Go for end game. Why not?
It's the end one. There's a lot you could probably say about it. Go for it. Maybe when a movie itself is
Almost three hours. You have much more to work with
Do it
Hooray, I found the timeline where efaps last over 12 hours. Naturally maula
What have you to say for hosting streams where 12 hours is too short?
The next one is maula. Please sleep. We've been up for like 20 hours 12
I can't even go to sleep as soon as this is over. I got all this stuff to do
Yes, you can't what other things you have to do. I mean i'm gonna have to go to sleep
I need to eat. She's gonna have to take her fifth nap today. I have not eaten yet, right?
I'm gonna i've been feeling the hungarins while doing this you gotta eat, you know
Well eat eat some chip. I don't know what you call them. You call them. You call them
We call them chips over here like tortilla chips. What do you call them?
crisps
He crests get some tortilla creasps
And they just like tortillas. Yeah
Uh stupid sexy rags just take my money. Oh, thank you. Thank you for the dawn. I made it in time for the
time for the halfway point
No, no
All the half. There's no way we're going for another like six hours. That's not happening
No way I can get through these and listen. This is my first super chat. Have a good day slash night
Oh, well, what a great for a super chat because it was to us
If you were a sim, what would your aspiration be?
Whatever my creator had designed for me
Yeah, you need jesus well if you if you were a sim
You'll see your spiders are in need of a walk that's true. I need to walk my spiders
So they get their exercise
Uh testing to see if I can super chat into new stream. Oh, there you go. Raw. Apparently it's working again
Steam. Oh, thank goodness. What would we do without raw super chats letting it know what he thinks of all the things?
Uh themed memes matter true. Hell. Yeah, i'm back like gandalf holes. That's that's wrong again
Um star wars the phantom waffle
Hashtag waffle lives matter. Oh, this is when I believe peaks and gamers had done a raid and i'm sorry. I missed
I was very distracted
Uh, remember dr. Mihai cheek sent mihai. I I do
The legend who you probably studied under the teachings of bigidious. I don't want to claim anything. I remember mihai cheeks
Like he may have
Since I wasn't able to bankrupt myself on super chats today
I spent all of the stream instead playing dragon ball fighter z first time playing a fighter game ever conclusion
Fighter games are cancer meant for turbo artists. Oh
I agree
Okay turbo auto fighting games, but let me show you the way. Let me show you the light of how to enjoy a fighting game
Do it because
Okay, first thing you gotta do
Is that you gotta like um go out onto the edge of a pier
Or something and just shake shake your body out because you've got way too much salt
In there you get that salt out
Just shake it out first and then you can go inside and you can play your fighting game
But you've got too much salt in your blood right now my dude
Got to get rid of it
No, no fighting games are for turbo artists
Oh, well raw said has raw ever been wrong?
I I mean i'm a turbo artist. So maybe that's why I like them. I don't know maybe in fact it probably just
Aren't we all turbo artists?
Like come on not me right now. I'm a i'm a slow artist
I am not i'm not on turbo mode. I'm in economy mode right now. I got the eco button flipped on
Oh goodness zach said break the legs lord ra people are encouraging ra
Oh my goodness. Don't encourage raw, please
By the way, the guy who made the animated shorts very based I was from ra ra approves of the animated shorts
Oh, wow, that's a level of that's a level of praise that very many aspire to yet
Very few achieve j knowing so much. Doctor who stuff explains why he doesn't know many movies
Also for the love of the cosmic chicken go to sleep all of you
Some rules are working on it made to be broken. We are working on it
I had a good nine hour sleep efap is still going. Yes
Yes
Having watched through nine ten eleven and stopping after season one of twelve with the maths teacher bf in order
I can honestly say that I prefer matt smith as the doctor, but tens adventures were better
Fair enough
Tony stock dies in end game j unapologetically no characters die in end game
I mean he said no one dies in the fight
Has he clarified that that tony stock dies after the fight?
so
j
Hour one of episode 55 go to sleep. Damn it. I'm getting there. We're definitely moving faster now sleep. Well aden
I'm awake now, but i'm gonna go to sleep soon
Multiplications and divisions are evaluated from left to right one doesn't take precedence over the other same for addition and subtraction
Yeah, oh yeah pemdas is just a helpful, um, uh mnemonic bid mass is better
Because we made it pemdas either way it's a mnemonic device either way pemdas sounds like a
pelican
Pemdas would be a terrible pelican name
I but it is a pelicans would have plain normal names like carl steve frank jim pemdas. Is that one guy?
I I would like to have like a name steve to be honest pelican steve. I'm not steve
I
Pcc is running a scam with
billions
In bribes given to foreign state advisors so they can create a new trading market for carbon credits
Literally trillions in profit to early members like al gore
I have no idea what you're talking about
what uh
Throw their legs off a rooftop. Oh my goodness. Oh, he's talking about the flag at that point the three legs seems to make
Uh, imagine believing climate change crap when everyone pushing it has been proven wrong every single time
They've made a prediction and exposed for corrupt carbon credits shilling practices globally
That's raw I feel it raw I don't want this had to do with what we were covering but I understand
I don't I don't know where it came from but it's right. I guess
Aiden wouldn't have fallen asleep if you just kicked jay mauler. When will you learn your inaction has consequences?
I mean it is it is interesting. You woke up soon after jay left. I don't know what we're supposed to consider
What are we what are we? No? No, no
The thing is it's funny. Okay, so
I've known rags. You know, i've known each other for a long time. I've
I think the only person i've ever not had any communication with was jay, but I watch his content
So, you know
rags, she she previously
Pulled everyone. She hates jay in different conversations. Is this true?
No, I actually watch and like his content. I don't think i'm ever even saying anything about it. He's a habitual liar
Right rags. Why does she hate jay? Can you give us context for this jay?
she's lying to cover up jay's ineptitude because jay has
an issue with um assessing the quality of films as we
Seen he doesn't even
He doesn't even like combing the desert
Which is not acceptable. I thought you were gonna say he doesn't even like coming to america in which case. Um, he probably doesn't like america
Come not isn't like if someone doesn't like coming to america i'm sorry sometimes there's bad takes jay
And then there's bad. I think it's time to say jay hates america jay is bad takes the person
Wow, he's a bad takes
I have I have no reason to believe any of this but i'm going to
Pretend that I believe it. Yeah, also jay looks like heiner kimmler. Yeah, so I don't know what other the truth is
The truth is the truth. What can you say?
I mean, yeah
Well now I believe it. Um, so what are we talking about now that i'm here climate change or something?
Were we were we talking about? I don't remember talking about climate change
My plane landed. I despise jay really I do
Well rod doesn't like jay
20 hours of looking at aden. I'm on. Hi rags
Hello forgot to super chat this hours ago galaxy is greater than space balls
Uh
Why is my brain blanking you're talking about the one with tim allen, right?
Aidan help me out. What's the movie name? Why is the what's the movie name of that galaxy quest?
I'm improving a great great middle space galaxy quest is often
Put against space balls as like which one do you prefer?
I'm no they're they they both are good for different reasons. I was gonna say
is a very interesting sort of
um
If you've ever seen the documentary trekkies
It it more is reminiscent of the logical. Um
Um
Outcome or end result of the trekkies documentary. What's the thing?
I've always categorized it myself as space balls is almost making fun of star wars and galaxy quest is making fun of star trek
Yes, and they are not the same thing. That's why
I love galaxy quest though. That's right. I might say
More than more than space balls, but i'm not going to say what was better or anything. I just
I love galaxy quest as funny as hell
The guy was the red shit, uh, he's so obsessed with the fact he's gonna die
He's like you don't even know my name. I don't even know my name
It's good shit
2049 is one of the only few films worth a damn made in the last decade anyone who disagrees deserves to be publicly executed to set an example
I disagree rah
I just I was about to say I think you know is like anyone could have wrote that
Of course it's wrong
Yeah, blade runner 2040 died. I'll take a critical position on that. Sure. Give me
Uh, what do you guys use to watch your movies?
My computer my pc. Yeah, we don't know there's no like we don't like watch together doesn't work. Obviously
We just use you mean like
Yeah, we just sink and then watch sink and watch sink and watch
Sink and watch man. That's what we do. We just deal it's
You'll sink and watch you've heard of netflix and chill but bro. Have you ever tried out that sink and watch?
You'll try to eff up and chill
Uh trans people are potholes molar. Did I say trans people are potholes? I don't remember saying that no
No, I don't think you said that. Um
Aren't you excited for a possible brie larson star wars movie?
It's so repulsive and morbidly grotesque that you can't stop looking at it
Yeah, i'm super excited for it because wow, is that a really dumb idea? It's great. I don't think that's gonna happen
But if it does wow
Oh
How dumb do you think they are?
Yes
I think that they're maximum. I think they're max. Yes. I think they're yes maximum. Dumb. I think they're gonna do stupid
And just
Do the stupidest thing they could possibly do which is to give brie larson who is hated by everyone a starring role
Because that's how dumb they are
Um, just make a mouthful and blow. We know you've done it before jay. What is that in reference? Oh my goodness
Hold it check your discord for my request sent link
Send through twitter. I get i've got so many notifications on discord
I'm not checking them right now
And once I do once the stream is over it's going to be tough to go through every single one and make sure I know
Which ones are irrelevant or not?
This is why when you ping me on discord people and I don't react to it
It's probably because sometimes I don't catch them all
but but
Yeah, it's probably because he's busy streaming twitter twitter is the better place to go
Especially when i'm streaming because it's like i'm updating it. So yeah the way hey rags
Hey, hello. Hey maula. Hello. Love you guys
I still own the four disc blade runner pc game, but have no idea how to run it on windows 10
I i'm sorry about that. I don't know. Yeah, you might have to find some emulation software. I'm not sure
Look for some guides. How long has aden been asleep and when did you start?
Uh
I don't know. I think I was asleep for like one hour first time, but now I envy
Yeah, I don't know when all of it happened
times
I think I've had a whole of like three hours of sleep
Yeah, it's it's it's complicated. That's that's the answer at rags. Tell maula about your nazi lolly adventures
mauler
I play a game
And in that game
I'm a i'm a proud member
of hitler's glorious third reich
but
cherry on top
We are also vampires
service to the fatherland
so
We role play as nazi vampires
killing communists
Working with the they're working with the ss, you know, just doing you know, hashtag just nazi things
And that's what our role play is on
uh
arch warhammer's channel. He is the gm of that adventure through the forties
Here here's a question. I have to be very honest with the arrives you can say it because he's not here
Who's the better gm in your opinion? Is it arch or is it bill?
Well, actually when we have the q&a someone asked me this as well
My answer my answer still stands that they both have their strengths in week
But they both give a different experience and I can appreciate them both
Hmm
That I think a lot of gms like answer
No, no, it's true though. It's not a cop out answer. It really is true and I strive to be truthful
I
If that's what you want to call it that's fine anyway moving on i'm i'm just i'm just taking notes
I'm just taking notes to report back to bill
Well, I they'll already knows because I answer no
But yeah, I think it's like with a lot of people it's like they do things that they're good with
But almost as a result because there are time constraints and things like that or personal preferences
You know, you might have a weakness as a result of the strength, you know, it's kind of a give and take because you can't
You can't do everything, you know
so one person does one thing stronger and the other person does not think stronger and they both kind of
You know
They got their pluses and minuses and I and I enjoy them both and I like them both and if I didn't like them
I wouldn't play the game
Oh, yeah
And that's absolutely true
Absolutely. Okay. Cool. It's like it's coward answer. It's like no, it's the honest. Okay. Call to rags like dog properly this time
Call to rags like dog, what does that mean?
Like
Pocket rags like no, no, like call to me like I like I am your dog
And you wish me to i'm sorry that jay isn't here to fulfill such a thing
But I will jay tried once and he failed
Yeah, but there's no reason why I can't save that and have him fail to do it next time. He's here as well
That's very true. You better save that one and put in your back pocket for later. I'm doing whenever we need a jay put down
Star Wars episode nine the rise of skyle ben
Yes, skyle ben speaking of nintendo regular reminded
Regular reminded to efap sassy and opinionated's ultimate ultimate zelda conspiracy theory video also high rugs
Hello. Hello, and I would like to note that it's not a cop-out answer
Because a cop-out answer would would be that they're both great and I love them both
however, I did that but
I added on the fact that they both do things I don't really care for and I think they both have weaknesses
So that's not a cop-out answer. I didn't go with the
I think also i'm so fucking tired. I can't even think
So I know that might play a little bit into it
Hey guys, love your stuff. Here's five bucks. Go buy me some jerky
Oh, I have jerky right next to me I feel like you have jerky out
Good protein. Hi rags. I'm gonna have some
Hello, love you
Oh
well
That's awfully nice. I believe you and I think you said that with the utmost kindness not appreciate that immensely
It's a genuine. That's what that is. That's a genuine
Uh, yeah, i'm really glad really glad you guys stream today lately all the climate hysteria bug food shilling political theater
And more have made me want to fed post irl
Joker can't come out soon enough. So efap was much needed next one soon, please
We at least finish them before we demand the next ones
Yeah, holy shit. Let's just get to the end of one first
Mauler in 48 hours when you read this chibi robo on gamecube was the best game on that system was my whole childhood
I never played chibi robo and I played a lot of gamecube games. I never played that. I remember custom robo
Don't you need a bow?
I'll say it like that
No, don't say it like that
I said no, don't say that like that. You're a fucking weeb
It's like when people say latina and they're not you know
It's not right taco taco taco
Ah
Rags gonna fall asleep on his desk with jerky hanging out of his mouth
Hey, there are worse ways to go there really are worse ways to go but what kind of jerky is it?
well
I let me actually check. I I got him
Give me a second. Press amazon
So i've bought about three of these now, they're pretty good. They'll ask me many days
They're buffalo bill's original short shots. They're 120 mild flavored three and a half inch beef sticks and they come in these
30 ounce bags
So I buy like I buy them in like 30 ounces at a time. Have you have you seen silence in the lamps?
Yeah
No, not you rags
No
So when you when you see buffalo bill you don't associate that with anything other than just a neat no, I associate it with like the
western guy
oh
But because he's on the cover, but I eat these and I just go I don't know 30 ounces at a time
They're sold by choo choo r snacks. Don't go around telling people you're eating buffalo bills jickey. That's all i'll say
Yeah, just a good just a good point
I really have not been able to have a cigarette in
16 hours or whatever now
It i'm gonna go smoke if i'm if you're still online when I come back we will be i'll be
Seriously might not be
I'm i'm just i'm hanging on by the skin of my teeth. I that's how I need a cigarette. Otherwise i'm gonna die
I'll be right back. It's actually the opposite is true
Um, oh, yeah, that's a good point. Yes, but I want my death stick. I want my death stick i'll be right back
You you you should go home and rethink your life
But I go home and rethink my life such a shitty joke and I love it
Uh, anyway, I sent too many super chats to people today. Oops
But fair enough. Thank you still again, uh orphans and should have been abortions
What feces that that's a little super chat that just says feces rags. What am I supposed to do with this?
I don't know. It's shit
Yo, it's 3 a.m. You absolute mad lads also hi rags. Oh god, it's actually eight now
Jesus christ in a fucking hand basket. Oh my god
Good. Hi rags. You can't let that go. Hello
Hello
Still today in hawaii gotta go two more hours at least
No, no
My guess is one more hour and then we're really actually done. I'm not even kidding
Uh, kick j did it's fine rags. Do you think angry joe is only good for games?
Yes, and even then he's okay his movie reviews
His movie reviews are j level of aids to watch
Long bad good, how long can a long man be?
But well anything longer than half an hour is almost recognized as long bad these days. So
Also, can you do a video on how to defend tlj?
No
Why would we do that when we know it's not true
How to lie the video
How to bullshit
I think we're a little bit too mean to j. Love you j. Oh
I think that that's not true
That was taylor ramirez and then the next one says taylor ramirez is lying game end j ho j
What?
Who is efaps apex homosexual? I vote rags
That limits rags to the one gender slash sex you can't have that
You gotta you gotta get him more access. I I can fill in for the gay if necessary
but I think of the regulars
that uh
It's it's probably not
I too am an october baby. Mine is on the eighth
Two days after me or nocturne remover. You guys made my day after my boss yelled at me
Oh, sorry about that. No, sorry that your boss yelled at you, but
Maybe had it coming
Have you considered doing a separate stream for super chats with each efap since they're getting so long now?
Well, that's what this is. They're only gonna happen
You know
When they have to happen like something we don't have to necessarily
Reason that they take so long is because one we have an extremely generous audience, of course
But two it's because we go into fucking tangents about pimdos
And the stuff and then all of a sudden a one dollar fifty donation turns into a 45 minute stream tangent
And then we wonder why we were up for 16 hours or whatever
Yeah
Water that's the important
Uh
Wait, no, I said that you were going to turn into a money launderer because people tell you to pass on money to others on the show
Oh
I get it
I mean you could still argue that both portions of those transfers are money laundering. But yes
I hate doing laundry
Especially money laundry money gets all dirty with like blood and drugs
You gotta wash it all out and then dry it and I
Um, yeah, lol, that was about ray not aden daisy ridley talked about ray using dildos in an interview total
brain
I don't feel like that's something she would say she's got to be she's got to be official and you know not offensive
In her interview. I can't I can't imagine she would you're still going. I know what i'm catching up on during my days off
also, hi rags
Hello
If any of you played greedful and if so, what are your thoughts?
I haven't played it yet, but it's kind of on my maybe list here
Oh, hi metal
Mel's popped in like three different times before he went to sleep after he went to sleep before he went to work and
Work is almost over
How's that for time traveling
Uh
It's also good night. Aidan. She would say thank you. Well if she was currently smoking. Um
So glad you watched bone tomahawk my favorite film of all time
Maybe can't separate myself from it enough to be objective though, which is why i'm so interested in your thoughts on it
Well, I don't want to spoil anything in case rags does want to see it, but I thought it was pretty cool
And I really enjoyed the characters
I liked how simplistic the story was it's person gets kidnapped. They go and try and save you simple as that and
Bad there's a lot of creepy elements to it. There's that horrifying moment
Kurt Russell was awesome in it and I think that he needs to do more
cowboy rolls before entering into
too old territory to do it
makes a good
It's episode 54 not 55 you massive apex gay jay don high
But it is we've already established our
Competency with math. Okay. Yeah, give us a break. We've been up for three years. Yeah, we're gonna be a little confused
And it is the 50 actually it's the 50
70 fap, right? No 50. Yeah 57th, right because add in two for part two and three of 50
Oh, yeah, that's true. And then this one so four five six. Yeah, this is actually efap 57
That what he just said that's the truth right there
Yeah, i'm surprised I was able to count that high in my state
Jesus man, not like arkansas
Like obvious I can you know for a second there actually did think like what is rags estate and why is that relevant?
That's what he just said. I know we're a bunch of hillbilly rednecks, but we can count
Jesus man, I went to bed hours ago when I woke up you're still going
There's so many of those messages for the 50th. I can't believe we're having those same ones for this one
Six and a half hours plus 11 17 and a half hours
We're really like not even too far away from a 24 hour stream. That's absolutely nothing
Aidan, you know, maybe if I keep maybe if I keep hearing over and over. Oh my god
Aren't you ever going to sleep? It'll help me stay awake
Aidan there's someone who reads a lot of research papers if you ever come across the secret of mario's. Okay, i'm gonna save that for
Ah, i'm crying tears
You're good enter control v enter there we go. I did it
Someone told me that tlj was not about law or plot but about the characters
Sad thing is a star wars youtuber. I like was convinced by to like tlj by this
Um
How is it the the characters aren't fucked in that film
I do not understand if someone said like if you ignore the plot and the law
Characters are great characters. No they're not
Adding to the count boys love y'all rhino milk
Mola, could you get a definitive star wars question from aidan if she's awoken by the time you read this she said both poe and fin
I think she went with fin or at least that's what i've got her written down as I think she was more
She mentioned poe being another suggestive thing, but she was definitely more
going with fin
Um, and then it ends with coup rags
Oh
Aidan were you going to for poe or fin?
Overall with your I wasn't considering the question
uh to me, uh
fin for sure
Thought it was also. This is a really important question
uh aidan and this is
Aidan as someone who reads a lot of research papers. Have you ever come across the secret of mario's jump?
You know what I have not and well and and and here's the thing
that I uh
specifically
Uh have been studying video games for a long time and even with natural mapping
I wouldn't have any idea about any kind of super secret behind mario's jump
However, I would imagine it's it's because he eats a lot of mushrooms to make a very
Old oh you can't know there's no answer to it. Mark brown made a whole video about how there's no real answer to it
We covered it we learned that it's the magic of the question you never answer it
That's so stupid
Um, no, you can answer every question. Nope. You if you can't answer it. It's not a good question
All right, try and answer this question. What's the meaning of life?
That's that is okay the meaning of life is I would say subjective
Oh, I thought you were gonna reference
Oh, no, I no, no, oh that's too easy. Oh
Everyone says that to the point. It's like the cake is a lie
It's got people burn that shit out and no they did it. It's still nice
It's a there's plenty of things we say that I was literally drove into the we've gone so late that it's daylight hours
And we can worry your side of the planet
What
We can worry hello we can worry
I sent you the the meme that you're in on discord sign in and you'll find a link to it if you haven't seen it already
It's very good. We showcased it on efap. But yeah, see all of chat saying 42, you know, it's not dead. It's still alive
Heard I know it's not dead. It's not what i'm saying. It doesn't matter if it's dead. It's so overused
What's the meaning of life? 42 I too i'm aware of this statement
Yeah, but that's hilarious. That's you you guys sucks supposed to of course
Now when now whenever you ask the question, you know, what's the meaning of life then you have to
obligatory
It is that you have to roll your eyes. I mean I didn't actually expect
Aidan to actually run out with a full essay explaining the meaning of life
I wasn't going to put her through that at this point of the street
Let me tell you something let me tell you something doesn't matter how tired I am
Don't ask me questions because i'll answer with research
No, don't ask me questions time. Just just don't ask me questions
Don't ask questions because if you ask questions you're gonna get an answer
It's gonna be a long and complicated answer and and that's why people don't like me
Still gonna ask you some questions. I don't know what they'll be and I don't know when they'll be
But they'll happen
They'll be later
All I can recommend now is not to die long man. I'm still here. So is rags
We're doing just fine
Present here at this location speaking of diversity just came across a rumor that daniel craig gets killed off in the first 10 minutes
Into the bond film and the rest is the black lady from captain marvel replacing him with some flashbacks
Apparently there's a scene in which he talks to ralph. Finds m about how agents like bond are no longer needed. Just kill me already
Uh, let's talk about let's talk about some realized shit. Let me let me put this out, right?
So monica rambo
who was captain marvel before
carol danvers was captain marvel in the comics is
amazing
And I would love for her to get her own standalone movie in the form of next wave
Because next wave if you've not read it is just a comic about
Assholes it's always sunny
It's always sunny but with superheroes
That's it
That should be a movie marvel. Why do you fuck this shit up?
Because you can't fucking think that's why you what again, I I was talking about this other day rags
Uh, I don't know how much your content is do but like the problem is like, oh we have to have more female representation
Well, guess what? There's an excellent pair of space lesbians
involved in the um a guardian to galaxy
mainline story. Yeah
Yeah, why are you where where are my space lesbians? I was there when you spoke of the space lesbians
And I know but they're great characters
they should be
What are they great lesbians?
Oh, they're great lesbians one of those bald
Which one do you make it one of them is ball
Bald bald. Yeah as in she has no hair
No hair right like on her head
Well, that's just what we know
You can make your own decisions and your own speculations about
You know where else there may be can't say can't say i'm a huge fan of the bald ladies
The wigs right? Uh, not a huge
My point is my point is it's not a huge deal
That's what marvel wants to go if they wanted to be woke and have female characters. Where is filovel on moon dragon?
Well guys don't like the super the the weirdly shaped unnaturally colored bright green hair
Let's just go the other way you're bald
I I just think that people would like it
I also think that if they put if they put um, so okay
So if you if you do next wave not only do you get to use monica rambo who has been introduced now
But you can put in elsa bloodstone
Who is essentially the buffy of the marvel universe? I approve of this whatever that means
She's literally buffy like in terms of the character. She's literally buffy
Uh, she's a vampire hunter and and she's a teenage girl when she that's right. So she has special vampire hunting powers
Yes, she's buffing vampires. What the hell did they do?
No, I mean it's the same thing with buffy where like she's given special powers to fight vampires regardless of her celestial choice
It's celestial lesbian
Someone posted that that's so they've read that just thought it was funny
Because the implications to be a lesbian at the celestial scale, I don't know what it means but
Also get through this shit that star wars girl actually asked brown table if he'd be willing to come on efap
And I like that someone commented on it saying fuck you backed him into a corner if he refuses a woman at sexual harassment
Oh god bull brown table. He doesn't know what to do now. We're we're a clever bunch the toxic brood
Yep, we know our way around you don't get to be the size of a brew without making a few enemies a lot
That's true
I brood we live long enough to see yourself become a brown table outside
I want I I want to go continue to smoke my cigarette so because I put out the time being
Yes, my cigarette. So let's continue through things
India and china have four of the five largest solar plants in the world
They're doing what they can for climate change considering their overpopulation issues
No, they're fucking not don't you buy that's such a bullshit statement. You know that they do
I don't know fuck all about it. So just like okay
We're doing china and then you're doing all they can right. You gotta be sure that indians shit in the street
They're doing what they can for global warming they're doing all they can yeah
For global shitting. Yes global shitting global shitting
It's like why are you trying to outpace the cows don't know
Apparently metal's being I mean just just like you're trying to outpace pewdiepie
They have to be number one number one in in uh, methane emissions
Number one in youtube subs metal if you're being bullied in chat, maybe there's a reason. I don't know. I'm just saying
I don't know. Yeah metal. Maybe you haven't come
Maybe it's just the natural results of the decisions that you've made in which case
We must leave you to your fate. So you may learn a valuable list
Still going also. Hello again rags
Hello again
Tweeted out another doodle to you more happy to draw arts for efap community
Thank you all for brightening up my day with each and every stream
Hopefully I appreciate the artists who draw already. Yeah, i'm not sure which particular one it was, but hopefully we covered it
Yeah, we we we really do enjoy looking at the memes they absolutely really are
They are very funny
And some of them are very talented like the guy who did jay's strange face
that was
That was awesome. That's
That's extremely talented work like very very talented that you could do that that takes an incredible amount of skill
um
The all wars episode nine how to unsuck a deek
Deek
All right
Play cotol one two
One and two, I guess best star wars stories objectively
Yes, yeah, that's probably true. I don't know. I haven't played them. I'm gonna get around to it one day. Oh play
Oh my dude, you got a play cotour
It'll happen. I swear
I gotta get to it
Luke reconnects to the force
512 unread messages well five five thousand and twelve unread messages that makes sense
Um
Don't sass me beer milk good
I I've never had beer milk. I just they have things like white russians. So we have like milk and alcohol
Yeah, but beer is more than just alcohol
Beer is more than just alcohol
And I don't know what happens when you mix beer and milk. I don't know what happens
I just didn't assume it would end up well, but maybe it does. Maybe i'm wrong. I'm sure you could find out right now mauler
I don't have any beer
You don't have any what bullshit? No, I don't have any I don't like beer. I like spirits
I hate beer. Wow. I love beer, but I hate spirits. Well, it looks like we have a match made in heaven rags
Well, I guess you just have to go be a milk drinker
You know, we both like milk that works out. I love milk. I drink i've got like a gallon and a half and see what would happen is
You have your beer and milk. I would have my when I wake up in the morning
When I wake up in the morning, I don't know you like milk, right rags
I when I wake up in the morning, there's nothing I like more than just a large glass of milk
That's what I drink. A lot of milk. I drink myself a lot of milk
I love it's good
And how much of this is is a metaphor and how much there's no metaphor I
Enjoy. I enjoy the mood juice then I agree. I agree because I feel the same way
Yeah, it's good. I love me some moo juice
Uh
Aidan I live I die I live I die I live again
Yeah, that's that's been your arc throughout this set of efaps pretty much
But but but my libertarian principles are blue blue laugh my ass off rags beat the fuck out by based aiden
By what I guess they're referring to the to the deserve part of this. I think that's where we're at with that one
I don't know. She agreed with me. I i'm a libertarian too. So i'm not sure i'm pretty fucking libertarian
It's definitely about the deserve thing
So the next one says in that moment aidan sided with wolf on the bathwater question and rags his heart broke
But did he deserve it?
Aidan agrees with me in concept which is the most important
It's me being a pedant. I suppose in terms of how I view the term deserved
Key dat whatever. Look at this mauler. I know you're a long man, but this is almost another 24 hour stream
It's not like i'm forcing everyone to be here. I just i've got to answer these
What you're doing is you're suggesting that we do something at the dinner table in front of the rest of the family
So where you can't possibly or else you'll look like an asshole. That's what you're doing. I never did that
Okay, here's here's a quick question. This is very important though because this is a long long long and storied question
I'm, sorry to pause here, but it's very important based on this. So
Okay, would you rather this is an infamous would you rather would you rather?
It's christmas morning
You are going you have a a present to give to your family members
So, you know any grandmom granddad any of your all of your aunts uncles all of the family is there
And you're going to put on
A dvd for them
What is on it? You have two options
Either it's you blowing a homeless man
Or you masturbating to completion and then saying merry christmas
What what is on the tape?
Which do you prefer? Would you rather?
Oh shit, I mean if it was the first one then they know I was fucking gay for homeless, dude
Um
I would the second one means that you're aware
They know that you were looking into the camera. Yes. Oh, yeah, because yeah
I I understand that but is it better to purposefully masturbating or accidentally caught blowing a homeless man?
What's this is why it's the best would you rather because it's it's I actually think it's really easy for
Going right for me. It would be the second one. I I would rather so you want them to see
Your your happiness that you're excited
First off. I want my dad to be super proud of his son's big ass dick
And also I just I I don't I would I think that is far better
than
Being like oh, yeah. Oh wait, is that our son blowing that homeless? Oh my god
What's wrong with home? Because then they'll have to then they'll have to watch a homeless man's orgasm
Do you want your family watch your cum shot or a random homeless person's cum?
Somebody in your chat knows where I stole my would you rather from but yeah?
Um, oh man, it's such a fucking great one. It's a great would you rather
Jenna said how attractive is this almost bad?
It's going to change everything we need to know
uh
Okay, uh, so, uh, the next one says hell i've had my eight hours and you're still going. Yes
Man, this efez been one hell of a ride. It has indeed. We're on the final stretch now people. It's just a page
When I say just a page
It's not as small as you'd like to think but it's still just a page
Let's go deserving itself is an incoherent notion
It means that something holds you someone holds you to an obligation the universe itself you get what you get as consequences
Wait, what that's not typically how we say use deserve though. It's often like say that again
It's a deserving itself is an incoherent notion. It means that someone holds you to an obligation
The universe itself you get what you get as consequences
No, that's a silly comment. If someone said rags
Do you think it's logically consistent for someone to have as a consequence of dealing with leprosy patients that they get leprosy?
Rags would say yes. Yeah, of course. That's logically consistent
However, do they deserve it on a moral scale?
Which I think is what rags is going for as in should they be punished for their works as dealing with the leprosy stricken people?
Yes in terms of a moral aspect mixed with the
Moral
repercussion
Deservedness just implies statistical
Probability. I don't agree. Is that true?
I suppose it's a difference in the
Understanding or our interpretation of the language
Because mine mine would be like well statistical probability
So probably it's going to happen and therefore you deserve it only in that you shouldn't be surprised if you get leprosy
when you work with lepers because then if it didn't happen then there's like that we've had a
A then you didn't get what you deserve when you should have
No, no, I because I think that deserved there's definitely a should
When it comes to deservedness because I do think that relates to
Deservedness implies they should it just implies. Hey
You did this thing
That we knew from every statistical reason would result in an outcome
That wouldn't make it a bad thing if you don't get leprosy, obviously
It's just saying that if you do you can say oh, hey, that's deserved
I don't know
I don't think so
I think that it's reasonable for them to get those things just because it's a it's a conclusion that adheres to the
You know the universe we live in
But I think that when we look at deservedness
I still think that there is an inextricable moral component based on the worth of what
You are owed in terms of your punishments and rewards
Hmm
Now deservedness it that does make that does add an element of subjectivity
To deserve obviously, but I think that that doesn't pose a problem really to the discussion in particular. That's just a matter of what we
Are what we think the results of that deservedness should be but we've already talked about this and I am fucking tired of shit
Okay
No, I I get your point. It's still very interesting
Yeah
Ah Bluelah, where am I?
Uh, well guess we can't have intercourse with our significant others in the bath shower now because we are sharing the same water
We'll increase our chance of herpes, which we will we apparently deserve
Well, I mean if your partner has herpes you should probably be aware of that and take um, there's medicine now that you can take that that
or that that
Take just take the necessary. What if you don't know what a ridiculous thing
If if you love somebody and they have herpes, you can take precautions. Well, no, no, no, no. I'm saying
What if what if you don't know they have herpes?
Well, I mean you should have these conversations with anyone you're sleeping with
But okay, but that's
Doesn't really follow they could they could lie to you
Right, or they could be too ashamed to talk about it or well, they shouldn't be
What yeah, they shouldn't they shouldn't be
I agree. They should be truthful. The rags is aiming us. Does that make the
Okay
No, like it's oh, no, no, no deservedness. Hang on. No, we're getting down this fucking rabbit hole again
Okay, i'm i'm only getting i'm gonna make it very very very
clean and
And clear as best as I can
When I say deservedness, I don't mean in terms of a moralistic stance
I mean in terms of you shouldn't be surprised
If that happens doesn't mean that you should
if you have
if you
You know are gay and you have sex with a gay another gay person and you get eight doesn't mean you deserve eight
I think you should be surprised if the person lies to you
If the person lies to you, yeah, probably be surprised, but I just don't um
Deserved in this i'm sorry in the way that i'm using it is not moralistic. It's
I'm using it in the statistical probability sense
Yeah, and I understand and all I would say is that in my experience
Acconnotation that people use deservedness for is hugely tied to some sense of morality
Like that person deserved that outcome or that person didn't deserve that outcome is usually tied to what i'm genuinely shocked that
A sense of justice is like I I don't know maybe
uh, that's just
Well, I think we've had people say
That it's so stupid to drink the water of someone else's bath
But yeah, you do deserve to get a disease. Yeah, because i've never heard deservedness be
basically used as
probability
I you know, it's probably just a differentiation in terms of how I perceive stuff, right? I think it's fair
I just that's not how I would use it
Molly's a smart man. Well, no, I mean I you're just a filthy smoker. What do you know? Oh, no
Finish my fucking cigarette you deserve you deserve
Wait, what you got? What are you gonna say?
deserve rags
You deserve lung cancer
Because you smoke the death sticks I do smoke the death sticks
I also eat of the weed, but here's the thing you eat of the weed. You do not smoke
But i'll tell you what I have right now
Okay
Rags, you know what nerds rope is right? I do know what nerds. Oh my god nerds rope
That is a fucking blast from the past except guess what it's made out of nerds
But what yes and another ingredient you killed nudes and made weed out of hard for thc motherfucker
Oh, I was about to say I was a oh
My goodness, yeah
Co okay. So I when I was in colorado at silverton beautiful fucking town
When I was up there in silverton, they had a little dispensary and we don't have those here
So I went in to look around because that's weird to me because we don't have those here in arkansas
And I never really did the weed ever pretty much. I just wasn't interested in it. So I bought some edibles there to
Sneak across state lines and I got home and I had them
And they just didn't do anything for me
Dude, we'd let them out. Is that like
I will tell you this I when I okay
So i'm coming back from dc after I bought this nerds rope thing
It was like i'm just gonna take like a big bite out of it and it'll be fine
Um, no, it wasn't no, it wasn't no, it wasn't
No, no, because it was way too much. You can't take a bite out of this shit. I've
No had it for like over a week and i've just been taking like one bite out of it a day. Holy shit
That stuff's insane
Wow, that's crazy
Because I because what they said was heavier smoke before I was like, no, no, no and so they said, okay
Just try out half a lot and because I had cookies
Just take half a one and see how you feel, you know
See how intense that is for you and then you can kind of use that to judge, you know
What the rest of them will be so I I had the first half the half of one and he got nothing
So this is weird
So I waited a long time because I know it's supposed to kick in later and I wasn't gonna be like, oh
That's nothing then eat the whole thing and just get fucking bonkers. Shlammered
so I waited a while and then the next day I
Had like a bunch more than that and it didn't do anything for me
It's kind of a shame. I was hoping to get something because I'd only heard about it
But now I because i've never been like hi
Really not from weed
Hmm
That's because i've never been interested. But then when I tried it out, it just didn't do anything for me
So i'm like, oh, well, huh?
curiosity satisfied, I guess
You know bill didn't get high when he came over here either
I I gave him a whole bunch of like good ass shit. He couldn't get stunned. I don't know why
Everyone's saying tomorrow i'll hit the ceiling. No, no, this was like a
This was no this was like two years ago
But I just don't I just don't really care. Honestly, I just just just don't have any interest in it
I was just kind of I was sort of hoping
Oh, I
I guess I guess i'm immune to the weed. I guess i'm too lawful
Good and the weed doesn't even affect me. Oh, that's that's very interesting
Uh, what are your paladin love again?
Who is kurgis?
That's not kurgis. I'm sorry. It definitely is
I think it's kurgis. We've spoken i've got the collar and the javelin
I don't think so. I don't think it's kurgis. I don't think it's i think it is. I think it is kurgis
All right. Listen, listen here. All right, let okay, let's say you work for someone
Let's say you have a job and you work for
The fuck I don't know a motel six, right? You go there five days a week. They give you paycheck
Well, let's say you're walking past you're walking past
Uh a day's in and they say hey, could you sweep the floor for 10 bucks and you're like, yeah
Cheryl sweep the floor for 10 bucks. That doesn't mean that you now, you know, like your master i'm sorry
I just I kind of get this feeling that you're probably
I just kind of get this feeling that you're a paladin as a days and not kurgis
You know, you get a you know feelings are are very subjective and they're not a good way to arrive at justified
belief systems
I'm clearly a paladin of kurgis
And in fact, it's not even disputable really
I I'm pretty sure that you are legally. Why do you carry on with this charade?
this farce of justice
I I mean, I don't care about justice. I don't deserve this true neutral man. I don't deserve this
I'm gonna say I'm I am a paladin of kurgis
Isn't it pronounced?
Here's the thing that is that um rags kind of got betrayed by accidentally. No, here's what happened. Here's what happened
I did
No, no, no, no, no, I didn't have a theology degree in this bullshit made-up game religion
and so she decided that he wanted something to happen, which means it happened and
Then it was oh
No, i'm a paladin of kurgis. This is very very very simple is what this is
And he's gonna show up one day and be like, you know, like no, no, no, I might entertain you but no
No, i'm i'm proud of kurgis. Yes, you are. Yes, you are a proud paladin of asmodeus kurgis
Asmodeus kurgis i'm just saying
Okay, i'm about to go smoke my last cigarette cigarette
All right
Let's do it
Uh
Mola my youtube says efap 54 started 15 hours ago 55 started three hours ago. Are we really at 18 screw it?
Let's just do 24 out. No
We're not at 18 also high rags
Hello. Oh my wait, we're not at 18. Are we?
This is a seven hour stream and the other one was 11 that would be 18
Oh my fucking god
It's terrible actually very close to a 24 hour stream which we had prep for
We did lots of prep for that. I didn't prep for this. We did not prep for this
I basically woke up like two hours before the
Stream was supposed to happen to me. So i've been up for 20 hours now. Yeah
You guys that's not going for me. I had a nap so i'm good, but
She's you had two naps. You had two naps. I did you see naps so much you forget about other naps you've taken
I know I had two nice. They were nice. Well, one nap was very short
And the second one was a little bit longer. Give me a little bit more time a little bit short
Rags is judging your naps after you established you were a dog eater
48 hour shows next just all week. Just never just streamed forever 24 7 365
Oh no
You uh, you guys are still going and here I was expecting to see the stream in the archive today
It's coming. It's gonna pop up there eventually. It's coming
I needed to turn my sleep cycle around so I could watch the only screening at my amc for ad astro
Which is super late last night. This efap did the trick. All right, good
Happy to help
Had dinner went to bed got up for work traveled to work been working for two hours and you're still going respect also. Hi rags
Hello
Also, don't kick j. Oh, well
He's going he's asleep. Oh
And we got a j for that and just as I predicted you're still going three hours later loll get some sleep
So the first one where he said three hours. That was at six hours
This one is predicting. I guess three hours later and we're at seven hours
That seems like a ratio that's actually working out so far, you know, we're getting there
Are you serious? We're getting close to the end. So so get through it. I've just interrupted me to tell me to speed up
So mauler you interrupted her interrupting you to tell her that she was interrupting you
Now i've interrupted you to let you know all that aforementioned information. I like that you let me know
So now this is snowballs and this is a perfect explanation as to how traffic jams happen
Are you serious? I just finished my night shift 6 a.m. Yes
Love my ass off rags. I'm sure you'll be ready to go back to work by the time we're finished with super chats
Love my ass off rags. I unironically told a rude annoying girl. She was a Pillsbury dough boys
michelin, ma'am
michelin, ma'am
At a tail
Man, it's ma'am. We actually my own
michelin, ma'am. Oh my god. I gotta remember
Great michelin, ma'am
Any possibility of a fab music review at some point?
Maybe the wall people who think music can't be objectively critiqued have the big gay
Uh, I don't have enough experience
Breaking music down to be able to do that and I don't have enough of an interest in it to really get into music reviews
So the copyright would be a nightmare to me
The youtube are very testy about music. You'll play just a couple of seconds. They'll be like hey
Put that down. You're like, oh, sorry. Sorry about that
Um, this one just says what was that mauler?
Don't that's referencing 24 hour fap here we come. Oh, this is when I said don't send anymore
Which is I should have obviously figured out that that was a stupid thing to say
So me and rags will probably never say that again
Because all of these are talking about how they shouldn't send super chats. I'm sorry for sending the super chat, but hi rags
Hello
Some say they're still streaming to this day
Oh some say what was that?
There it is. Here's that super chat you asked for boss four more years. Stop sending super chats
What's your opinion on streaming until you drop?
I don't know
I'll always unhealthy you shouldn't do it. Don't do it. It's not healthy. It's bad for you naps
No, except on monetary. Love you gas and mass. Wait, sorry what?
Take naps maybe two even this is yeah
Take two naps. Take a couple. This is pretty good. Yeah
Uh, no except on monetary. Love you gas masked insomniac. Hi rags
Hello can't tell what you said gonna have to speak up pal
Yes. All right. I I get it
Warhammer is great rags. You should definitely do a collab with arch also hi rags
Hello. Yeah, I just don't know enough about war hammer to really delve into the lore and stuff. I have a
Passing interest in it arts to teach you i'll tell you everything about it
I can't have arch teaching me about war hammer bill's teaching me about jamming
and i'm doing all my other stuff that I do
And well besides
Really well catch up on my sleep for the next week. So then i'll be out of commission
Uh, you guys have gone on long enough that I've
That I weed eaten my lawn
Oh, but I I guess he's saying that I weed that I ate my lawn weedy
Dude, we use a weed eater
Yeah, that is right
Aidan explain
A weed eater. It's like like a weed whacker. It's it's basically something that you can but we call those streamers over here
Really streamers? I've never heard that we call them these terminology because I don't know
Yeah, man, gotta figure out them languages. They could be tough
I I go out and do some weed eating
I don't know what you call. Do you call it streaming then? Yes, you do streaming. Okay
Streaming sounds like a very
Sterile sexual position
What's who's to say? It's not that I literally have four days until I have to to move to the uk
So i'm I don't know any of these you said it was four days a day ago. So it's going to be three now
It's three days now three days now because efap is
Oh god, it's three days. Oh fuck fuck fuck
Oh fuck
They're fine played some anime souls got ready for work. I'm really scared. I've never loved the us before so i'm super scared
You'll be fine
The britain britain's very friendly
Uh, well, I won't I don't think i'll be anywhere near where anyone could possibly find me
um
So yeah, we needed my lawn played some anime souls got ready for work went to work and now i'm about to get off
My 12-hour shift. We've got a lot of these stories coming in. I just want to share their day
A lot of stuff has happened in these streams. What the fuck guys you're still going, you know
When I predicted the accidental 24-hour efap, I didn't think it would be the very next efap p.s
Bring usulu on as a guest sometime
Oh, yeah, yeah, you bet sure
Did you say send super chats or stop sending also high rags? We said dear god, we said stop sending
But dear god we don't it'll they'll send more
It's just gonna collapse. Anyway, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because i'm just gonna collapse
Anyway, and then no one gets to say hi rag. So who's yeah, so now what?
uh
You're gonna take these super chats molly
You're gonna take them all just like all those holes with daddy issues that took dollar bills for me and my pals at tabard and kappa
Tabard and kappa. I don't know what that is. But all right, it's funny. Well, I know you're going through a lot right now
Horace gotta eat just know that you did this to yourself p.s. You called me a bad person. Am I as bad as jay?
That's no one is as bad as jay
They did throw one in rebels tv show
Oh, yeah
I guess he does exist already in the disney canon because rebels is canon
But who knows what they'll do if they put him into a movie just saying
Jesus I thought mundane matt was just a meme. I had no idea
He did stuff that could ruin people's lives like accusing them of being hollow hoax deniers
No jokes. That's a good mess. Oh, yeah, my dear
Anyways, open up for more dosh mauler you whore. That's good. Oh, mr. Rah
Finally got in bed. So I might pass out soon. Thanks for the stream massives. Please do another one soon
Laugh my ass off at rags his new avatar
Yeah, that's good shit
That's a good one. Thank you pikachu for that. It's very good. I like it
Uh the brazilian wandering spider cause a one hour long painful erection with its bite that also kills you after the hour
Or as as jay would say a priya plism
Welcome aboard the uss friday the 13th, but we nicknamed her old death trap
I mean both of those names are just it's not looking good
Um
Aidan paladin on my efap in the wise words of gordon ramsay finally some good fucking food
All right, hold on like some good fucking food long woman and long man finally joined together. No
The long men rags is a long man
I'm so long but man i'm i'm getting towards the limit seriously. I'm getting
My long limit yeah
Hi rags and mules lee with my naps. Hello. Hey
I went to bed five hours ago and I figured you guys would be done soon. Just
Just do too. Oh just due to sleep deprivation, but you're still efapping away
And that's the message and then it just says j
It just says jay
No, jay for the love of the game
Here's more money because you are champions. Why? Thank you mark
Uh, we are the champion our four stream two star wars ot remake hype high rags our four
We're three hours away from where we are now
Oh god, we're nearly catching up
Can't believe in the time. I left disney world went to the hotel went to the airport flew home
Went to bed woke up just now and efap is still on good lord. Never change you massive. Oh
Yeah
Gosh, that makes me able to stay up longer
I know right
We've almost made it
We're halfway through that page that I mentioned
That's that's so big the well, we're not halfway through with a third of the way through so
We're getting there getting there. I had stuff to do today. You massive
You can you can do stuff while putting this on the background stuff. Wait, listen to us
We're not stopping you like weed eating you can do weed eating while you're uh
Listening, I think that's all. Yeah
Just finished my reps and coffee and y'all are still going strong. Aidan. Come on more you neato people
You're a neato people that's what it is. Oh, thank you
Morning rags. This is a good idea. This is
Good morning. It'll probably afternoon by the time we're done morning molesbury
Morning. Well, i'm off to my next 10 hour shift
Yeah
There's a bit of there seems to be a cycle theme happening here
Seeing a cycle
Uh, I hope darth vader comes back to life and says I did not kill her. It's not true. It's bullshit. I cannot kill her
Oh, hi shave
Uh
While i'm here did aidan ask the efap greatest questions orphan love star wars question, etc. Yes
Also, yeah, I think all the questions got basically asked. Yeah
Also, hi molar give this money to wolf will do
uh
can
Anda estrada candos thrust in daktu nos frandos canda dimattos canda
Does that mean anything to anybody? I don't speak all of the languages
Wait post it where is it?
I will
Build a selection of things and on many
Candor estrada. No, I have no idea what that is in daktu nos frandos candor dimattos candar. It sounds it looks like um
It's some fucking vampire shit who knows
um
I had time to sleep and you're still going gg boys. That's the necronomicon
Yeah, stop summoning things
Oh, it's from evil dad that's
I didn't see you're done. Okay
I would die to talk to you in person also. Hi rags
Hello
Sending greetings to my future self and rags
Oh food went in a fight the isle of man or the isle of lesbos
Isle of man kicks him serious ass gonna say the isle of man's kicking
Kicking i'm not gonna let it up
Uh, my mim and brain cell dying
All right
Esperanto is a semi-unilanguage that still exists
Yep
Fair enough. I don't know how far it spread. I don't think it no only only autists use it
Uh, how did this happen it's still happening legend has it that efap is only middle
Get to win it
I was so happy when mola watched my meme video
uh
Sorry, i'm 100 sure which one it was i'd have to check the names but um, obviously we loved the meme
Fucking awesome. So happy that I could have been hit by a car
Hit by car bad, uh, who else faps while also listening to efap
Isn't the point of all the people who
Who do it? They probably wouldn't want it. Oh woodley. Oh, yeah, totally
Uh
Why wings are the best bomber
I don't just
Hi rags morning aden and mola
What's your favorite adventure time character arc?
Episode, uh, hello first off, uh, but I don't watch adventure time
I still watch tv. How are you there?
Oh shit. I'm the only one here who watches in that show. Okay. Well, I mean
Is it too obvious that I just say jake? He's amazing. I love that character
fantastic and
All the time with him basically rather than a particular episode. I like all the earlier seasons a lot
I haven't seen a lot of the latest but I saw a lot of it as a whole. I just like the
other
Please talk about adventure time more in efap. Well, i'll make sure to try and
Ref, you know, i'll save this question when jay comes on
So that he can answer as well because he's seen an event
Likes
You welsh androids dream of plastic sheep
Oh probably I was gonna say it's pretty much. You see I really not
But wales is a disgrace you should feel bad mubesley
No
We did we did some stuff. We we we gave you guys antony hopkins. Yes, by the way
How dare you fucking I will say this as a plastic sheep, whatever fucking uh
Synthetic sheep, uh come here we'll rise again get the fuck out
Um aden you've embarrassed yourself in the public space, what are you going to do?
My question yeah, there you go
UK time is 1 p.m. Hi rags
Hello, UK time is currently 2 46 p.m. So that was an hour and a half ago sort of
Can there
rags maker mauler and jay and pipeman and cj or such play dnd and udm them
Call it massives and marauders force them
Massives and marauders. That's pretty good. That's pretty good one day
Um started fellowship at the beginning i'm now watching two towers
You know
As much as you might find us being like wow
That's how long we've been streaming. That's nothing compared to like all the people have been saying they've like lived whole days
Full thing because watching fellowship of the ring is starting two towers. What's that like four hours?
Four hours isn't too if you'd said you completed the full trilogy i'd have been like fuck
Uh
Aiden if you had to be one race from the star trek universe, which one would it be also high rags?
Balkans 100%
I can't translate it, but I'll go ahead and assume that that was what it's very. Okay. It's very easy
So here's here's a really fun little tiny. This is a sorry. We're trying to wrap this up because i'm tired as well
a really really fun trivia piece though, is that
Because the way that they recorded the first words that were ever spake
in vulcan
They just had them record their lines in english and then they dubbed over it in quote unquote vulcan
so
You know spread your fingers wide and say live long and prosper and then say
It's the same thing and means peace in long life. And if you try to say
And peace in long life, it's the exact same um mouth movements
Yay
What was this one?
I did, but I forgot another part. I I forgot. It's been a long fucking night
It's okay. We're daily at the end. I think we're daily beta guys
Like we're I see the sun sunrise over there
um
I fell asleep waiting for you to start again. I wake up and you're still going you absolute massives also high rags
Hello
Hi maula. Hi aden. I forgot that I actually told that story earlier because I I very rarely do it's okay. It's
Brain's melting is natural at this point. I think
I can't remember everything. It's impossible. You've been to sleep twice. So
How do you trust what's real anymore? I'd say it's gonna be true
Um
Yes, uh, hi maula, hi aden. Hi rags
Hello guys are doing the lord's work bless you for doing this
Oh
When will you read all of the horrors heresy rags?
Oh, I just don't have the time to read books
That is not
That is not dead which can eternal lie with strange eons even death may die
h pilbo love cragons
on at the streams of efap
Well, that's nice
Peace
Um 9 11 2
Well, it says
I don't want to guess the sequel
That's something else I got nothing plagues sexual interests is true horror
Oh
No, no, yeah that one more time legs sexual interests is true horror
Oh, yeah, absolutely plagues like gripes he's talking about and yes it is that's why I love plague
All right then plague is farm man and farm man very sad
Farm man is very sad
Uh
Oh my god, stop the madness
By the dawn, is this a monday stream or a spontaneous 24-hour stream? Oh 24 hours
You should bring on plague pat or woolly hell yeah, what are the who are those three people?
Uh, the it's a reference to um, uh, it it's two best friends play the best
Um, um whales is a principality conquered by the english kingdom, all right
Whales whales don't feel that way you ask the welsh people
You're not gonna get people feeling as though that's that's but hey
Facts don't care about your feelings. Am I right?
Holy god, you're still going. I watched the first two hours went to work went to sleep and you're still here. Yes
Hey big fan from india
The dumb fine is only for landlords or homeowners in new york city who state illegal alien as reason for denying accommodations
Okay, so like it's not just you don't it's a little bit more beyond just saying it
At least aden gave me an answer for the red drago, but dragons are cool, too
I agree. Yeah dragons are cool for the dawn's sake you're still going. Yes
Time stamp for when aden said she's getting a sig
Oh, I guess that's what that is
brat
You started as I was leaving wick I passed out listening to you and my phone died
You're still going as I settle into my cubicle
Yeah, but now we're in the last third of that page. Oh
Sweet rags. I love you. So
I
Love you
so
Rags say baby girl. You're a good girl and daddy loves you very much. That sounds creepy
Baby girl. You're a good girl. Daddy loves you very much
Oh my god, I just got done with a 13-hour watch that started after you started. How are y'all still going?
It's at the power of the dawn is pretty much who i'd blame
I mean
Address it to thoughts on mandalorian so far
I mean, it's not out yet, right?
Trailer trailer look kind of cool
Don't know what to expect
No, we'll have to see how it goes
Uh, it was polish. Hi aden
Hello
Uh poop, right
So rag says the axis powers one world war two in your rp
Not yet. It's a work in progress
I think i've slept one more hour than aden. That's only because I have work right now. Yeah. Good luck
Yeah, I hope that you're able to make it
It'll be real nice
Have some money for entertaining me you massives also hi totally not fairy rags
Oh
Is that me? Oh, hello
You brought me late enough at night. And by now, I mean the next day that I actually have to bring out my ukulele to be annoying
It's okay
I'm not one of the people who feels like they played out even though they kind of are a little bit
They made it into loads of youtube videos and then they sort of stopped being in youtube videos for a while
like
They're like the apology dog
But people like we can't have the apology dog anymore, but maybe they're gonna make a resurgence, you know
Uh, keep laying it on in on the furries. This fandom needs a good slap
I guess he's referencing furries. Um
Yeah, they slapping
Aren't jedi supposed to be in control of their emotions. I think the role is perfect for old wood faith
Uh, yeah, we could have characters who
Yeah
Just got onto efab to see aden speaking japanese. This just made my day made it the best efab ever and earned my money
Hmm aden actually just went to smoke how many supers would you need to go for a full 24 hours also high rags
I'm hello
Also anytime you want me to speak moon runes
I'm pretty good translator at least. Okay. I actually have jlpt t-shirt. So whatever
Good to speak what?
Jlpt too means um
Near fluent japanese. I don't speak it that well anymore, but I did at one point
so
Oh my god, you guys are still on I fell asleep while you were laughing about flags
That feels like a lifetime ago
Oh, it feels like it was years
That was a nice time half life three is out and you're still going don't tempt me that way
Stop bullying metal. I'm at work and I can't defend him
I was here at the start. I'll be here till the end. I'm so used to listening to you
I'm gonna feel like i've lost a limb when you finally stop
Well, there's plenty of backlog stuff and get the limb back temporarily
What are your views on rhodesia?
Short answers only long
Rags what's your opinion on rhodesia? I don't know enough to formulate an opinion yet. I'm sure it's great though
I have no idea what's referencing rhodesia is by far the best country ever
All right, then
He said no short answers, but I assume that that is the long and short answer right mine makes sense
Give this money to high rags
Oh, hey
Take a nap you massives longer than the anniversary stream. What the fuck man. It's not longer than that one. Okay, stop. That's no
Joker sued my fellow game persons
also, hi, aden
Those uh, that was weekend warrior. Yes, we all get to be in cells soon enough when we watch the
Oh, yeah, we're excited for that
Uh, uh aden watches your mom's house
I sure do
You guys like milk. So have you ever tried kefir or bizarre knee? It's cultured milk
Meaning it's fermented for probiotics. It's pretty good. I'm assuming it's more gross than that
Because it was that's the super chef from eric stewart and he says some strange things sometimes
No, I do not know of those milks
I do like kefir though. Okay, maybe it is a good
It could be genuine
Uh, holy crap, he's still going that's probably a stupid question for this podcast. Thank you so much for having aden paladin on
No problem
She's been wonderful
Also, I hope so. I'm being a little drunk. No, i'm just playing my video lately, which is always annoying. So
It's funny it just that's how i'm trying to not fall asleep. So
Yeah, we got it. We're nearly there. I swear it's like there's like 15
Oh, that's it. Oh, yeah, also kick rags
no
Also, hi jay. No, no, no, no, no. No, you've messed it all up. Hi mola too, I guess. Okay, fine
Thanks, efap crew i've been on this treadmill for the last two hours after working a 12-hour shift you guys make time fly
Hi rags
Hello
That's yeah, that's cool
Mola, this is the super chats is the most devastating damage per second race i've ever seen
But I survived
Hmm good day long man i'm in preliminary mode of producing a youtube channel inspired by your work
Namely in similar editing style to your audio commentary videos. May I have your blessing to do so if so any advice
uh
I mean if not, it's not like a patent just yeah, be careful about copyright
and um
Good, I don't know. I don't know if you're doing commentaries or if you're doing any kind of specific scripted work
But like I like to say usually if you're doing scripted work redraft
research
accuracy
integrity
Consistency, these are all things the good stuff that'll lead you towards good results. So good luck my good man
exactly
hee pee hee hee
Please sir step away from the edge of that roof and that's that's from bizarro rah
That's the one that's trying to save people from roof
uh
All right
What the actual heck are you doing?
I've been to sleep twice fell asleep to superchats and wake up to edible discussions setting that 24 hour stream regularly long, man
Also, hi again rags
Oh, hello
Took car got mum killed phil grabbed liz got to the winchester had a nice cold pint and you guys are still going
Yes, good reference
great reference
Yay, they read mine
guys
Thanks for making my job searching these last few months somewhat less tedious long streams good get some sleep for the love of katulu
We're almost there
belch
rags
Yeah, oh belch team. Yeah
You guys are verging into accidental 24 hour stream. Oh, no, there's way too many hours to go for that
It's a seven and a half plus 11
18 and a half it needs to be one and a half plus four five and a half hours. That's not happening
Time is a flat circle efap 55 will happen again
Aiden your sleeping was adorable post thoughts
Oh, are they asking what me and rags his thoughts on your sleeping way
Mm-hmm. Yeah adorable
Anthony hopkins eats people maula wales bad. No
Sometimes some people need to be eaten. What can I say?
true
Uh, i've been here since the start. The problem isn't the last this probably isn't the last no
mr maula, I feel that I must apologize
For you forcing you to read my thirst chats to rags
I'd read them myself, but these restraining order against me makes this rather challenging
Rags you took a restraining order against somebody being thirsty for you
I didn't do that. I didn't I did not do that. I don't like you
But maula x aden confirmed don't at me
Well, this is just the fact you like
Go to bed I just we got there i'm sure of it. Hello everyone. Hello
Aiden give a good answer. She's now my spirit animal
Wait
Ask rags if water is wet
Hey rags is water wet? No next question
Um next one is stream for over 18 hours. Stop it get some help
Stop it
I could sure use some stop it
Clip it
Twang it saying hi from my electrical theory class if I subjectively believe it
Am I supposed to get a massage today? Oh shit do it
I don't know. I don't I don't I get to like look at my
Schedule dang it
If I subjectively believe it isn't boring, I won't fall asleep. Also. Hi rags
Hello
That ukulele just woke me up still going geez
Can you please read my super chat?
There you go, done it. Thank you for reading my nonsense. Now, please sleep. Love you all
Right and whales should be thrown off a roof. Hi, rah. No camera rise again, for fuck's sake
Hi rag love rags pat rags kiss rags is
Rages and that is it
That's it i'm not yeah, i'm not even kidding that's it
All right, let's get the fuck out all right, so
Thank you all
I'm going to read the super chats that are coming in as I say all of this
Right at the end of saying this and then hitting end stream so that there's no confusion. All right, so
We had a wonderful
Really long stream that is the longest. I think it's been that's not the 50th. I don't exactly know how this happened
It just did. Uh, it's been a lot of fun. Thank you to uh, to jay for coming on
As the guest that he did you can find links to his stuff in the description
What I will say is that aden has stayed with us
This portion. Yes, there were some naps, you know
Let's be honest we are going to nap at some point but um
Yeah, I I I would do why don't this is your opportunity now. This is it
Tell people why they should subscribe to you 100 you got to really sell it this time. Oh
oh no, um
Well, if you're a big dumb gay and you like, um
Social science or just information and numbers
Then watch my channel because it's nothing but numbers all the time and jokes
Jokes to try and meet the numbers more relatable, but other than that it's very much just numbers. I find numbers
Okay, that's about it
Yeah, subscribe to aden paladin if you if you look at things in the world and you go wow, that's weird
I wonder why people are doing that thing
Well, i'll go read a thousand
Different pieces of published research and try to answer that question
He will find the answers that you would know not longer search for because of things
That's the best way to say it, right? Yeah, of course
And I know and I have to start doing this again of giving people some
Box to read again that are easy to get a hold of
Um
Thank you so much for all the effort with the with the memes if there are things that have been missed this stream
Like I said, i'll try and collect them up and we'll show them on another stream get a big collection today
i'm glad we got through them and uh
Thank you ever so much for the generous donations. Um before I say goodbye
I shall read out the remaining few that are mostly just i'm not even sure what so
Tell metal he's a dingus. I'll do that. No problem
No
Yay
Ah
Hi rags
Hello night boys and girl. Love you and buy rags
So there we go. Goodbye
Thank you all for watching
And we will see you next time
Goodbye
Goodbye, we did it. Goodbye. Never again. You've asked
Oh, please
End my existence
