Pearls of wisdom are dropping from my mouth.
They're just going,
bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop.
They're just dropping from my mouth.
That is not the top of my head onto the floor,
that continues.
And there's only three people here to pick up those pearls.
When there could be thousands, millions maybe.
Billions.
And I don't know, let's turn it down.
A lot of pearls.
Pearls.
These are conceptual pearls.
Lots and lots of pearls.
Hello, everyone.
Are we live?
Well, this really depends on your perspective.
What is live?
Because I didn't know if you meant that
to be like a hello for us,
like another late greeting for the three of us
who are with you.
Well, I mean, it's subjective.
It depends on what your interpretation is.
I think that when you say hello,
I interpret that as a personal attack or something.
Well, what's the something?
That is, yeah.
No, I leave it purposefully ambiguous.
So it can be whatever I need it to be,
whenever I need it to be that way.
I want to know what it is.
Tell me.
You're a sexist right now.
Which one is that?
Is that the one where I hate brown people?
It means you hate the blacks.
Yes, that is correct.
I'll write that down.
I always get that fucked up.
Because there are three sexes.
Man, woman, and black.
That was sad at some point, wasn't it?
I feel like that's been said on eFap before.
Ironically or not.
I can't remember why I said that.
I feel like that's something I might have said.
I really don't remember.
I'm disappointed in myself.
Oh.
You know the eFap quiz that you did,
I think a fun one would be,
is this quote a real thing
that's been said on eFap before?
There are some pretty interesting ones.
That quiz is pretty damn good,
considering how quickly it was constructed.
There's a lot of easy questions,
there's a lot of really hard ones
and a lot of fun ones.
Which one was fun?
I thought they were,
I was, it reminded me of school
and I didn't have fun in school
because it's take this test,
do this responsible,
make this happen, fill in the bubbles,
learn the answers.
You would say that Mr. had Fs in biology.
I had an A in biology
because I fucked the teacher.
Tell us more.
No, that's it.
That's all there is.
It's a boring story.
It's not boring.
I mean, I was, I was doing some boring.
Oh, she was boring.
Yeah.
Wait, sorry.
I assumed they had gender or zer's gender.
What, what, how did they,
was this a person of color?
Yeah, like a lightish,
like a light beigeous beige kind of color.
A beige-ist.
Yeah, beige-ish, beige-ish color.
Was she a man or was he a woman?
She was a teacher.
She was an instructor.
That's the fourth sex.
Man, woman, black and teacher.
I mean, if it's written in the stones of the law,
you cannot deny it.
I hope I don't get stones.
Well, like kidney stones?
No, just like stones.
Like in my house.
Everyone send rag stones.
No, please don't.
Yo, box 77, 2028.
Because if you do, the shipping will be very high
because you're shipping rocks, right?
That will be heavy.
It could be small rocks.
They could be.
It could be hollow rocks, yeah.
Yeah.
Plastic rocks.
That could be a hollow, like a geode.
You could send me geodes.
Why would Jay send you the precious geodes?
Yeah, send me the geodes, guys.
Those are important.
Those are mine.
Jay eats geodes.
He thinks that they're rock candy.
They're not.
Oh, they're my fuel.
Geodes are like the crab legs of the rock world.
I think peak existence for me
is drinking rhino milk out of a geode.
I think you'll explode if that ever happens.
I don't know.
I need a message.
I need to get some new thumbnails.
I want a better thumbnail, you know?
Something more, I guess, like catchy.
How did you get that from what Jay was saying?
Yeah.
What was Jay saying?
Oh, right.
Now, I don't think, I don't even,
Mahler, if I asked you seriously what Jay was talking about,
I don't think, I don't even think, you know,
I think you've already forgotten
if you even knew in the first place.
Drinking rhino milk out of a geode.
It was very, very coherent.
No, he wasn't.
I'm sorry.
What?
Jay, what were you talking about?
That's not what he said.
That's not what he said.
What was I talking about?
Oh, you think that you're gonna rope me
into your little word games?
I have already roped you into my word games.
I thought that's what we're doing
is on eFap's word games.
You're playing my game, and I am winning my game.
You're playing my game.
Well, maybe I'm losing your game,
but you're losing my game
because we don't know the rules
between each other's games.
My game is where winning is losing,
so I'm winning both games simultaneously.
No, you're not winning my game,
because in my game, winning is winning.
Maybe the manager.
This is a good game.
Yeah, well, I have a rule that stipulates
that on the 8th of every month,
after noon, after noon, yes,
it rules the rules temporarily.
And not in Australia.
Yeah.
Could you define the evening on what planet?
The evening on this planet.
What part of it?
The planet of denial, which is where you live.
You live in the planet of denial.
Thank God everything's subjective,
because this can be considered an intro.
What are we doing today?
This is gonna be considered an intro.
Are we live?
We are live, right?
Oh, yes, yes.
Think about this as well.
For people who like watching Continuity,
this is just after the 50th episode,
which was like 10 years ago.
So it's like, oh, welcome back, everybody,
who survived the 50th episode.
It feels like it was a long time ago.
29 hours.
That was long.
And it was fun.
It was split into three parts.
I told Rag this, this is funny, the three episodes.
Out of the three, there was like nine
different copyright claims.
I have fucked all of them off,
except two that got denied back.
They're on the third episode,
but luckily they still allow it to be viewed,
so that doesn't matter.
But episode two managed to steer clear of all of that.
And episode two is the super controversial one
that even got reported for hate speech.
So how about that?
Oh, wow.
Wait, that's the one where Jay Longwood said nigger, right?
Yes.
Okay.
The chat would get progressively more hyper
and well, I say with some people,
literally one guy was very upset.
Who?
Who was upset?
I forget.
There was posts in the Discord, it doesn't really matter.
It's awful.
It's interesting how that works.
But yeah, it was crazy.
The last 10 minutes were cut off or five minutes.
And I left a pinned comment talking about that.
And for anything that was missed super chat wise,
I'm just gonna mop them up today,
but I'm pretty sure they were mostly just meme words.
So like they were like last or gay or super gay.
So, you know, it's fine.
Like I'll read them all out.
It's nice that they sent Jay super chats.
No.
I thought he was the big bye, not the big guy.
I don't think so.
Jay for the Lord.
Rex, you're the big bye.
The big guy?
You're the big bye.
And you were here before me.
So I can't be that big.
The big bye plane?
Maybe the small by.
Yes.
I'm not really saying about all of this.
I'm like, I'm kind of like, I'm tall, but thin.
You're lanky.
Yeah.
Oh, so, all right.
So you're on the lanky.
The thin by.
Yes.
Like, well, I mean, yeah, that's, you know,
someone might make a game about you eventually
where you're chasing someone in a forest.
Like that could be something.
Oh.
Or is that more of a long man thing?
It's like Eddie with double D's hat.
Yes, that's like, I'm not that long.
You know, you can get a lot, you're getting longer.
I saw that.
I saw that another life video.
You can't hide from me.
That was a long man.
It was only an hour.
Probably had people saying like,
I could just watch the show.
Why would I watch this breakdown?
Why is it that I would find something?
I did get a lot of people saying,
you're just nitpicking.
Imagine someone was like,
why would I watch planet earth
like a documentary on life?
I could just go outside.
I could go.
Why would I ever watch the discovery channel
when I can just walk outside?
And discover things.
Yeah.
They're going to watch the lights on the streets
as they walk around.
I mean, honestly, if you're in Australia,
there's something, you know,
life threatening just around every corner.
It's freeing me.
I think it's like threatening, yeah.
Yeah.
You know, such the kangaroos of my balcony
as you do in Germany.
I'd like it.
It would be funny if you had like a TV show.
There was an Australian character,
like on like an Xbox 360 style,
like game over in the background.
You just have to hear him every once in a while
hunting something down.
Like it's a huge crashing sound.
He's like, it's gotten in.
They're like, oh, stop and kill it.
He's like, hey guys, I'm back.
And you're like, what the fuck were you?
Like, I was just, he was just a neighbor dog.
There are no lions in Australia.
Not in your Australia at all.
I believe that you have zoos in Australia, correct?
I see where you're going with this.
You don't have zoos in Australia?
Yeah.
How would you know?
Was it confirmed by biggitties?
I think that we have established previously
that Australia isn't a real.
Yeah, but there are lions there.
It is what we call a fake.
Wait, so are the lions that are there fake now or real?
No, they're a real lions, but they're not anywhere.
They're just floating.
Yeah.
That does make sense.
Yeah, I had like a shit ton of rotating guests
and it actually like worked out next year.
If I say next year, as if it's just like a guarantee,
who knows what'll happen.
If I was to do it again, I actually,
I was thinking about like, oh yeah,
we could do the thing where everyone chooses a timeline.
I feel like I'm gonna come in 3 a.m. through to 6 a.m.
or some shit like that.
But even if they did, it'd be so awkward
because a lot of videos wouldn't be covered
in the ways that you'd probably want them to be.
As in like, people would just have to leave randomly
and people having to join who may not even care
about the current video that's going on.
They're just like, do you switch the video?
Do you keep it going?
I'll probably end up doing it the same way I did last time.
So it worked out really well somehow.
I feel like Jeebus was on my side.
Jesus is always on your side.
No, no, Jeebus.
Even if you're not on his side.
Jeebus.
Which kind of cheapens his dedication to you, I guess.
I like him.
If he's always on your side, no matter what.
Are you a mass murderer?
Don't worry, Jesus loves you.
Jesus.
Jeebus.
Are you an executive at electronic arts?
Don't worry, Jesus loves you.
Like, well, at that point, what value does that love have?
None, zero.
Okay, say that.
That's all right.
If the person who loves you has the power
to put you in heaven or hell,
it's still pretty valuable.
True.
Actually, well, if you get there through belief
and belief isn't a choice, then it's not even like,
it's all, you see, here's the thing.
The rules are really fucked up.
Yeah.
I agree.
Thank fuck they're not real, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Thank goodness Islam is the one true religion
and Muhammad is the one true prophet.
No, I'm gunning for Mormonism.
I reckon they've nailed it.
This message that they won.
Theology is brought to you by your friends
at every frame of pause.
We haven't even paused once this episode
and we're already at 12 minutes.
Yeah, what are we gonna do?
What's the plan?
What's the plan here?
I still don't think it's just a ramble for hours.
So many things, so many things.
All right.
I wanted to be like, it was cool
that we made it to 50 episodes with a podcast
that was like made.
We made it to 50 and it was great.
Yeah.
I like the podcast is so known with this name
and the name was created by
and voted on by the community as well.
Like how cool is that?
That's okay.
Yeah, I still remember.
I still remember the day
when we didn't even have a name.
There are many options.
One of the options was video response theory.
And I was like, man, I like that one.
And what I didn't realize at the time was
that's such a specific meme
that once you lose the origin of the meme,
it almost becomes like just a shitty podcast name.
Efap has become the meme.
We've gone full circle.
Efap just super works because people are like,
where's the stab for every favorite pool
after they've complained?
You can nerve it really well too.
Oh yeah.
Efapped it, you know.
And then people say that you've been efapped to people.
It's like worth a meme.
Ew.
I've been efapped.
It means a man on the internet, anonymously,
masturbated to a picture of you anonymously.
You've been efapped.
Noice.
Yeah, overall thing was just like thanks to everybody.
That was what was supposed to be on the end of episode 50,
but it got cut off.
And just super appreciate all of the faneroos
and like the art, the memes, the passion,
and the discussion.
Pretty much every Efap episode
has a whole bunch of discussion going on
in the comments section, which is cool.
That was kind of the original inception of this,
to have fun while also actually being like,
hey, maybe sometimes video essay people get shit wrong
and the way they approach it is really to them.
Because I think all of us separately like to watch videos
while commenting on them separately,
like Mystery Science Theater style, but with YouTube.
And then it's like, why don't you do that with the public?
I say this knowing that they've got all that shit
coming right from where it's like,
you're no longer allowed to criticize content creators.
Isn't that coming out soon in some way?
And it's literally just gonna destroy Efap
if that's what they're actually doing.
You can't criticize people on the internet.
I don't see how that's gonna be implemented at all.
And I don't know how anybody would actually be okay
with that, like no matter your policy or politics, I mean,
because imagine you couldn't criticize Nazis.
You'd be like, so I guess it's probably
that certain people will be identified as being the bads,
as in like, you can criticize people,
but you can't, you know, witch hunt, you can't be mean.
And then like random people get cut off.
I wonder if Efap counts as being evil.
We are very evil.
That's what the E in Efap stands for.
Evil frames of port.
No, no, no, no, evil, evil friends and patrons.
No, there is no pie here.
There is pizza pie.
Or evil frames and pizza.
Evil friends and pizza pie.
And pizza.
Well, no, that's Efap with two P's.
This is Efap with one P.
Not if it's hyphenated.
Why would you hyphenate that?
Why wouldn't you?
To make the acronym better.
There's some people in chat that say, play Akbar's theme.
Quick, play Akbar's theme.
But yeah, people have been speculating.
They're genuinely concerned.
Is this the beginning of season four or five?
It's like, guys, obviously the beginning of season four,
season three was nice and long.
What is the difference between a hyphen and a dash?
They're different words that you use to shut up.
I agree.
No, surely there's a difference between the two, right?
No, they're the same key.
They're the same character.
The same key.
Yeah, well, the M and the W are the same key.
They're just flipped upside down.
No, they're different keys.
You put your fingers in different places to press them.
No, they're not.
They're not just flipped upside down.
The M is straight.
The W is spread out a little bit.
No, not on this keyboard.
Well, you have a bad keyboard.
The W has a little nice up arrow on it
because I'm an epic gamer.
Oh, yeah, same for me.
I'm an epic gamer, too.
I have buttons on my epic gamer keyboard
that change the lighting of WASD specifically.
And then you could change the lighting of all the other keys
that aren't WASD in case you forget where they are.
I didn't say I was special.
Well, I am special, just not specifically for this reason.
Because you can play a bass with your penis.
How many chromosomes do you have?
I can play a bass with my penis.
That was before we went live.
Oh, they're not going to know the contact.
Rags performed a lovely solo for us.
For this penis?
Yeah.
It was magical.
I enjoyed my penis solo.
I saw a frustrated comment.
So I said when we were covering Jim Sterling,
talking about we got into talking about consoles
versus PC at one point.
And I made the very controversial statement
that I kind of hate consoles because of how much they've
held PC back, or at least PC gaming.
And someone was like, that's a really stupid statement.
That's like saying sports cars hold back casual cars.
So what I mean when I say that consoles have held back PC
gaming is that when you're designing or developing a game
and you build it for PC alone, you'll
be able to use all of PC's components
to the best of your ability.
When you make a game that's going to be across the market,
making it for PC and then porting it to consoles
is extremely complex, difficult, and probably
impossible for certain games.
However, if you build it for console and then port it for PC,
it's much easier because PC pretty much guarantees
it'll be able to run it.
Well, PC already outclasses whatever the console's
going to be able to do anyway.
So it's just a matter of optimization at that point.
What I'm saying is developers would have been like, well,
fuck.
If our main goal is to sell the game,
let's just make it for the consoles.
And back in the day, developers would often be like, PC, fuck
off.
We're going for the market share of Xbox 360, PS3, and the Wii.
Mahler, before you continue, just to remind me,
what was the point you're trying to make?
People were upset that I said that I
was pissed at consoles for existing in the first place
because of how much they held back PC when it comes to games.
Yeah, we have had confirmation from developers from Dyson
and places like that that, yeah, of course.
I mean, even when you think about it,
even if you take all that aside, think
about if you have to build a game that
has to run on an extremely capable system that's
very customizable to the user's desires,
but also you have to also build that game so
that the specifications of some shitty already outdated when
it releases game box can handle it as well.
And you're obviously going to have to build things
so that the lowest common denominator can run it.
Also, I'm very, I have a rudimentary understanding
of all of it anyway.
And even I know that this is true facts, hashtag true facts.
So if I had someone.
Hashtag objective opinion, hashtag true facts.
If someone, I could bring on someone
who knows a lot more about this.
They'd probably be able to argue in detail how much consoles kind
of fucked things up in terms of slowing everything down.
But hey, it's not like I didn't own and play a console.
So I'm not saying that I didn't engage with them too.
I'm just saying.
Ask yourself this question.
If you had, if the consoles that we had today
were three times as powerful as they are now,
would games run differently?
And would games be different?
The question is, obviously, yes, they would.
Obviously, yes.
There you go.
There's the answer to your question.
Also, not to mention stuff like just guys
Bloodborne running at 30 FPS at its best and 20 a lot of times.
Come on.
It's better.
And imagine they build Bloodborne from the ground up for PC.
Whoa.
A game that runs at 60 for me is like low and frustrating.
But yeah, hopefully that explains that.
The other thing about the gym stealing stuff,
which I think you guys will find more interesting.
I don't know if you saw the coverage rags.
But who was there for that?
I prefer Uncoverage.
Jay was there, and Alex, and who was the fourth person?
Ringing?
Yes.
So Jay's only a person who will probably
know what I'm referencing.
But yeah, basically one of the arguments
being that blind people, people with harder abilities to see,
and then disabled people are not going
to be able to join this market, this wonderful market.
So it's doomed to fail.
And someone on Twitter, Mark the Cyborg,
who I believe has commented and superchatted before,
sent me a tweet.
Mark the Cyborg sent you a tweet.
Let's check it out.
We'll finally know why he's called Mark the Cyborg.
But he says, I'm listening to part one on Moolah now.
And fun fact about my Cyborg journey,
I bought a Vive specifically because I lost a leg
and wanted to train my prosthetic playing
games like Robo Recall.
Worked quite well, and now I can pass a military fitness test.
What's interesting about losing your leg
is that now you have another leg that's a replacement that's
oddly enough easier to lose than your first leg.
You could actually misplace your new leg.
I see what you mean.
So if you can't keep track of your first leg,
then I don't know how people manage
to keep track of their second leg, which is way easier to lose.
Just put it on a leash.
Obviously.
But yeah, I just thought it was interesting to highlight
the fact that there are people out there who not only is
gym ignoring people who can just play VR whether or not they
don't have legs, because there's a lot of VR games
that don't require you to move, but also people
who have lost limbs use it to their benefit
because it offers something that non-VR games don't.
That's sort of interesting.
Imagine you wanted to hide something, right?
Well, now you can hide things inside of your fake leg.
Drugs.
Would they check that, though?
Fair nuts, right?
Maybe some loose change.
Hidden weapons, right?
You could take it off and beat people with it.
It's really a lot more multipurpose
than your original leg is.
Oh, yeah.
I'm just imagining Jim Sterling now seeing a wheelchair
and going, wow, this really hasn't
considered disabled at all.
What about people with no arms?
They can't use those.
What about people with no asses?
They're only supposed to sit on it, huh?
That's fucked up.
Do you think Jim Sterling thinks
about people with no asses?
I don't know.
I'm not inside that crazy man's head.
Well, I don't think he doesn't think much, but he probably
doesn't.
I feel like people with no asses have got bigger worries.
Also, I just remembered, yeah, I can't remember
if we talked about this on UFI before, but surely by now,
Rags, you would have had your monthly thrust, yes?
Oh, let me check, actually.
I think that's a good point.
I should have gone through by now.
For context, Rags became a patron of Tone Old Loc.
And he chose the tier that provides him a monthly thrust.
And I believe that was like, is that a news update
or some kind of something?
Well, let me see.
Let me go to Tone Loc.
OK, it's not downward.
Do you think he is aware that the name monthly thrust
is funny?
I wonder if he wrote it.
He was like, that sounds cool.
Yes, Tone.
All right, well, on August the 23rd,
there was an audio log update.
He covered the topics of state of the channel,
which he's never covered before.
My Life Outside YouTube.
Oh, wow, classic update.
Oh, no, I think he's referring.
I read that incorrectly.
Oh, wow, classic.
His poor, yes, this is the wow, which
is an abbreviation for World of Warcraft.
Classic update.
Oh, he covers gaming addiction.
And he covers state of the industry in 2019.
All right.
Well, that's not the monthly thrust.
It's just an update.
That's true.
There is, however, a comment on this post
that says, if that wasn't the best goddamn audio
vlog I ever heard, and then it goes on and on and on.
Oh, they loved the audio log, huh?
They really liked it.
Now, on June 17th, now we got from August the 23rd
to June 17th, there was a Patreon vlog number three.
Um, I feel as if I might be bamboozled.
Bamboozled?
Because it's my current report.
The great tonal has tricked you.
Legendary.
Level three patron, $5 or more per month.
Your name in my videos.
And I get, um.
I want to see your name in one of his videos.
Yeah, that's why I had it.
I want that there.
The monthly thrust, a once a month article
written by Tone Loken delivered to the Patreon.
Typically, it will be related to the gaming industry.
I guess that's just the audio log and not,
because it says an article written by Tone Loken.
Maybe he wrote and then recorded it.
Maybe.
I don't know, I feel as if I might.
This is why my Patreon, it's just like, if you just want to support me, give me stuff.
There's not, there's not like rewards for it, really.
Yeah, I can get confused.
I don't want to promise things and then just pay me what dollar and you can be part of
my discourse.
Wait, Rags, don't you have that?
No, I don't.
Oh, OK, good.
For a second, that's awkward.
Oh, I would have still buy it.
Oh, I know you would have.
I would say, however, that I would say that my discord is worth the admission fee.
Even there, even though there isn't one, it would be worth one.
So obviously, it is a high quality discord, I believe.
And according to scorn, Rags, apparently fake limbs do get checked for drugs.
Oh, oh, yeah, you wouldn't be able to hide for long in there.
No matter how many meth amphetamines you have.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, that that is incorrect, Mahler.
That is incorrect.
The idea, no, Jay.
The idea, why would you do what a terrible alternative that isn't necessary.
The idea that you wouldn't be able to hide them.
Right. Because how often does your fake leg get checked for drugs?
If you have a fake leg, I don't know.
I would wager extremely rarely and you would probably know if it was coming.
Right. You walk into maybe a courtroom or a plane.
I don't know something official like that, something with a security checkpoint.
You wouldn't just be living out your normal daily life and randomly be stopped
to see if your fake leg had drugs.
Well, you wouldn't need to hide it in a fake leg at that point.
Then you wouldn't be stuck.
No, you're not going to walk.
No, no, no, no, that's incorrect.
I will. I this is you get stopped for random people and like happening.
They search your bags.
No, absolutely not.
You are not going to walk down the street brandishing drug paraphernalia
in the open, right?
But you would even putting something in your pocket can be hiding it.
Putting something in your fake leg would be hiding it, too.
No one's just going to randomly stop you and check you for drugs.
That was our point, right?
Just put it in your pocket.
You could if you wanted to.
Well, yeah, yeah, like if you wanted to.
Yeah, so what's the problem?
The problem is that you suggested hiding it in the leg
when we could just hide it anywhere.
And then if you go into like an airport and you're going to get searched in the leg anyway.
No, no, no, no, no.
This all started because someone said
you wouldn't be able to hide it there because you'd be constantly checked.
It's like, no, no, no, no.
Nobody said anything about constantly checked.
Yeah, you said you get checked all the time.
Someone did say that.
Nope. I read out that you get checked and it ended with probable cause.
The only reason they said that is because you already suggested
hiding stuff in your leg.
No, no, I said it ended.
I never got a chance to read out the probable cause part.
You never said probable cause.
I never had a chance to.
I was interrupted.
So I was correct.
No, as usual.
I mean, if you don't believe it, it's fine.
It's not tiring to always be correct.
It is tiring to always constantly have to prove it to everyone.
You said constantly searched.
I never said that word.
So it was not even in there.
Constantly erect, constantly erect.
Which is something that you would have to hide in your fake leg.
We all go through that.
Your erection is so big that you have to stuff it down your leg
and curl it into the inside of your fake leg.
Oh, they cover that in super bad.
You can just let it scroll up and just get trousers to sort of just,
you know, like loop it around, like like loop it around, like in like
have it hanging like a kill boss.
Just make a bell out of it.
What I'm saying. Hey, snap.
Oh, I know.
CJ's in the chat.
Hello, CJ.
How do you do?
I was I was asked the other day, which is the worst video covered on eFAB.
We get that we get asked this a lot.
We usually see the Jack same video.
And I was thinking if a fan wants to make one of those crazy tier listing things
and you have like all the people we've covered on eFAB,
that could be pretty cool to actually tear them just for memes.
That would take a while, but it would be fun because we would we would have
like we would actually try and write them.
Yeah, well, they do this.
I think we could probably we would probably have a good top five.
We would have to do two separate ones, though, because like we'd have to do like
like like meme potential and then video making ability or something like that.
Because this tonal is like top tier
while simultaneously being bombed here,
especially because I'm not getting my patron reward.
I will email tonal bloke and say, where is my monthly thrust?
My monthly thrust.
I don't have to ask a stranger on the Internet for my monthly thrust.
I'm so sorry that you've been brought that low.
Like that's that's fucked up.
Everyone should be getting their monthly thrusts that they wrote down low.
Oh, yeah. So, OK, so you guys are going to love this.
So during the 50th stream,
I'm I can't I don't know who who like did the job of finding it out
and sending sending people over, but Hello Greedo was streaming
while we were covering one of his videos.
Oh, I remember that.
And Southpaw, blessed Southpaw, did a compilation of
this highlights from people visiting his stream.
And this is this is quite the funny.
But if you all want to join the watch together.
Oh, I am very excited.
As should everybody be. This shit is old.
Yes, I just want to point out.
Oh, my God, this is the exception of it.
There we go.
I just want to point out that Hello Greedo is streaming on Minecraft right now.
Oh, leave him alone.
Let him build and do it.
People are going into his chat.
I'm reading them.
There's a guy saying debate.
They hate Bongers.
I don't know.
Honestly, not only would he be
welcome to come on, we would treat him very civilly.
Absolutely. Slice and dice, brothers.
What the fuck is all this?
Is there a podcast?
Oh, my goodness. Does he play his games?
What's the point of the face cam if you're wearing a helmet?
That is a very, very good question.
Also, that's a that's a legitimate question.
I would like to ask him unless the visors are like almost clear on his end.
Well, yeah, because it'll mess the color up because you're looking
through a dark lens, sitting at your desk.
Face cam so people can see my face, but I don't want people to see my face.
I'm going to put something over it.
Maybe you can get a face rig or something like that.
It's purple lights, but he's got a he's got his room right there.
What's I just what's the point?
Oh, yeah, he has a fish eye lens. Why?
I don't know.
Well, it was very strange.
Maybe he's just got a really weirdly curvy room.
Maybe he's incompetent and he bought a camera with a fish eye lens.
He didn't realize like the best of the stories like this is a fish eye lens.
He's like, it's a good letter.
No, no, no. Fish eye lens.
Alternate hypothesis.
He is so dense.
You know that everything in the room is curling.
No, I don't see it for so long.
It has just created this warped visual effect of everything bending inwards.
When you said dense, people were going to assume it was an insult,
but no, you went the scientific route and I'm proud of you.
Yes, yes.
I all I'm trying to say is that I think that Hello Greedo
has a density that is rivaled only by the bottom third of the periodic table.
But Christo04002283 just says join Efab and Rhino and then milk out of context.
What the fuck are you supposed to think of this?
Because they would be thinking there's not an R or an M in Efab,
so I don't understand what it could possibly stand for.
Yeah, if you didn't know what Efab was as well as like Joy Defab, Joy Defab, Joy, Rhino, what the.
I can play Minecraft right now.
People who are dense get to vote twice and weird, man. Yes.
Praise Don, where is the Greedo mask? Greedo mask is in the garage.
Made it, Don, bless you.
Made it, Don, bless you.
Don, where are the mods?
I'm I'm not.
Dude, my mods are cool as shit.
If somebody is not saying something horribly nasty
or spamming the same shit over and over again, you're it's it's,
you know, you're free to say whatever.
Seriously, they're genuinely interested in talk.
Let me just go too fast.
Let me scroll up.
Genuinely interested in talking with.
I would like to point out that somebody in his video game has said
that real men drink Corona with lime.
All right, yes.
I'd like to point out that that tie fighter is asymmetrical.
Oh, I would like Corona.
Well, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, it is well.
It is asymmetrical.
Yeah, they fucking up.
It's got the line on one side, but not on the other side.
He's like, yeah, I'm counting the blocks on one side of the corner.
Yeah, they fucked up.
Well, not even the number of blocks.
It's literally like one has a horizontal line of stone
through like the dish and the other side doesn't.
Jay, I won't inspect a Jay on Minecraft to be like, you fucked it up.
Fuck this and all of your stuff has come to the point
where we're critiquing people's Minecraft spaceships.
This is peak.
If app right there.
However, I feel like a Minecraft aficionado myself
who I consider myself an expert in landscaping mostly
that this is an architectural blunder of the highest degree.
I would have abandoned this project eons ago.
Well, not before burning it to the ground, surely.
Stone doesn't burn like all you can do.
Yeah, rocks burn.
Yeah, rocks burn.
But say, man, like that sounds like you just gave up netherrack burns.
Yeah, well, that's not stone.
It's sort of. Yeah.
Netherrack is definitely a type of stone.
It's definitely a type of stone.
Yeah, but this is stone specifically.
The block is called stone.
There's no stone in this image.
There's no stone in this image.
That is cobblestone.
No, that's not cobblestone.
That's andesite.
Oh, that is so breaking news.
Why would you use andesite not polished andesite, though?
If you're using it for construction purposes, this is creative.
Andesite has polished andesite has like edges on it.
So it will look like like divide up the different blocks.
And that's not what you want.
You're like a constant flow of the same texture.
I think this looks like I don't think so.
Right. I challenge you to a Minecraft TIE fighter build off.
Well, for starters, my wings will match.
Guys, I have breaking news.
What?
Not not that important, but still really funny.
So do you remember way back when Rags, when we had that guy
on who said that there's only one definition for words?
Oh, yes. The DX guy.
That was hilarious.
He was yeah, he was he was he was a he was a good sport.
And as far as I'm aware, he considered his time on you have to be fun, which was great.
However, you know, good old Mr.
just right. Yes.
Yeah, he apparently knows DX.
And so when he heard that DX was was considering
coming on to EFAP to talk to us about his video, this is at the time. Yes.
Uh, just right.
Put out a tweet.
Now that tweet went away very quickly and nobody managed to snap it.
But someone looked in their history and they were able to see this.
This is from Theo, by the way.
And it's been passed along to Theo from someone else.
But I find this to be on EFAP.
You was on EFAP indeed.
But look at the question that you can go to.
Don't do it.
Oh, just right. You're such a just right.
You're such a little bitch. I know.
You're such a little bitch.
Don't talk to them. Who knows what they'll do?
You're such a you're you're
spineless, jelly legged, cowardly, yellow bellied little bitch.
What a what a what a disgrace for masculinity that you are.
What an absolute joke of a person you are just right.
You should be ashamed.
If I was you, I would just be ashamed of myself
to think that I was that cowardly.
And I think it's just like really just right.
Our conversation was pretty civil.
It's just that you had no preparation for your own ideas about art analysis.
And you fucked up several times.
And because of that, what with persona non grata now, that's cool.
You're as I I won't.
It's like after I got my ass stomped by Wolf and Mueller
and a discussion about the Last Jedi, where I verbally outwardly spoke,
a sentence and phrase that undermined the entire point of my channel
and all that I do.
And now I have to go on a crusade to make sure that other people
don't have discussions with you say crusade.
You fucking deleted it quickly after.
Just to to clarify, I feel this is kind of important.
Yes, not totally, but kind of.
Was this before or after Wolf yelled that just right was a faggot?
I mean, I don't know.
What are you referencing?
Is that was that on a podcast or is that?
Yeah, when when you guys covered his objectivity video.
Oh, that will.
Yeah, this would have been after that.
Yeah. Oh, Wolf called me a faggot.
I can't talk to him.
I mean, if anything, that proves my point.
There's this like there's degrees, right?
I feel like that takes it down one.
Um, I don't really like everyone has different values when it comes to that
whole thing, if someone's like you've crossed the line,
I can never speak to you ever again.
Then the wolf was perfectly friendly to him in the two hours
that they talked to each other as far as it was an hour and a half.
Something like that.
That's the thing.
It's like, you know, like just the fact that he was like clearly kind of like
pissed off that oh, wait, something just said before I might have been wrong on
this. Oh, yeah, we covered the DX video first.
Was that the same podcast?
Well, I'm going to have to check my history now for a good question.
It was forty eight.
The wolf said that.
When did we meet and cover DX?
Was it forty or was it forty seven?
I think as well.
From my mind, it's forty seven.
I'm not super sure.
Ifap forty seven.
Yeah, we definitely covered just right video in that one.
And then.
When did DX come in?
Who was who was also here when we talked to DX?
Um.
Myself, Mahler, Theo, I think that's forty seven as well.
Oh, yeah.
So we talked to him at the beginning of it.
And then just right was called a massive in the later portion.
So, yeah, it was before that.
Wait, hang on.
No, no, no.
Well, I mean, so that means the degree is brought back up by one.
Right.
Yeah. Yes. Yes.
Yeah, right now, we've already established what he is.
It's just a matter of degrees of this cowardly as fuck.
But OK, just right.
Don't your opinions challenged?
Go for it, of course, because no opinion can be wrong, right?
So, you know, no judgment can be made in a faulty manner.
Roger said homosexuality will always be a mental disorder.
You know, anyway, back on with.
See, hello, Greedo's a little more fun than just right.
This is clear.
He has an aloofness to him.
That does make him more entertaining.
I mean, this video is pretty fun.
You know, you're free to say whatever.
Seriously, they're genuinely interested in talk.
Let me. Shit, it's going too fast.
Let me scroll up.
Genuinely interested in talking with you.
They're streaming right now.
Any interest they'll be on for the next few hours.
So it doesn't have to be.
Jaguars play literally in 15 minutes.
That's why I started this stream when I did.
So I could get off and play or watch the Jaguars play some football.
But yeah, I mean, maybe in the future,
I don't know what the fuck it's great.
Obviously, they got a lot of listeners.
If you're just continue, you can hear like the music in the back,
like the typical Minecraft music in the back that it's just like, man,
he checks all the boxes with the mask on music in the background.
Yeah. And the the UI.
Well, I say you are, you know, the presentation is
he's got always checked all the Twitch boxes.
Very familiar for me.
The the TIE Fighter isn't joined to its dish in the center.
It's joined to low.
That is correct. It is not that you know,
something like that could really just drive someone insane.
I wouldn't believe I would have given up.
I would. You know, you can go online.
There's online like graph paper that you can just take the boxes on
and double check and you can look at a you could draw it out on paper
and then recreate it in the actual Minecraft to make sure that, you know,
it's all there, put the fucking thing in the middle.
Like you can plan ahead to do this stuff.
And you can also, you know, you can recognize the failure
and then start to rebuild on top of it and chip away at the old mistakes.
You know, it looks like he's just given up and been like asking.
Well, look, look, it's just like we're being critical of his TIE Fighter.
Yes, we're being critical of his TIE Fighter.
Also, aren't TIE Fighter wings?
They're not like they're not
symmetrical in the sense that they're equal circles.
You're right.
Dishes, they're taller than they are wide.
But it depends on the maybe this is a model we don't know about.
Maybe it's an EU model. I don't know.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure TIE Fighter's are supposed to be square on the wings.
Right. Not supposed to be rounded.
They're octagons.
No, they're not. They're hexagons.
And then the TIE interceptors are the fucking cool looking ones.
Well, normal TIE fighters are arctagon.
They do have octagon wings.
No, the hexagon wings.
No, you can you can you can even look here and you can count the eight sides.
Yeah, but that's not a normal TIE Fighter.
Google TIE Fighter, and you'll see that they have six sides on each of the wings.
I thought it was four. I must be imagining shit.
Well, this is a regular TIE Fighter.
One, two, three quick.
Oh, yeah, right. Yeah, it is.
It is. It is.
Yeah, he did fuck up.
So the TIE the TIE bombers are octagonal.
Yeah, that might be a that might be a different kind of TIE fighter.
That's just not.
I suppose it's a normal kind because there's so many.
Well, there are.
Yeah, the TIE fighters are hexagons.
The TIE bombers are octagons.
The TIE interceptors are.
Let me take that.
Wait, which ones are octagons?
The TIE bombers.
Well, well, Darth Vader's TIE fighter is octagonal.
Yeah, I think the bombers are too.
I think you're right.
I think the bombers are as well.
They just have a second like pod.
Yeah, the TIE bombers are also.
That's clearly not what he's built, though.
That looks way different.
What is advanced TIE?
Oh, that's a fan made.
So let me look at it by interest.
We're discussing all this.
Well, you know, recently mentioned just right.
It was like, people don't even know what a YWIG is.
All right. So the TIE interceptors would be octagonal,
except they have the cut out sections in the front that give them the points.
So really, they're one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, 19.
So they would have 10.
So they're.
But yeah, I'm assuming this is supposed to be a TIE fighter.
And he I don't know why he didn't check, but he made it octagonal
instead of maybe he's just having fun.
What what is I'm sorry, what is that?
You know, can you define fun?
I understand what that is.
It's not allowed. We're a fat.
Yeah. So to recap, TIE fighters are a hexagonal TIE.
Bombers and Vader's TIE fighter are octagonal.
TIE interceptors are.
Decagon, decagonal.
They can't rule the way for that.
Shape. No, don't look it up.
It tends a decagon.
So decagonal. All right.
What about the what about the TIE defender?
Someone in chat wants me to ask you that.
TIE defender, a TIE defender.
I like to think that at least 60 percent of chat are actually invested in this.
Oh, that's 10 defender.
Let's go tie to fact is a ranger.
I just look at like the fight fighters.
None of them look like this.
So there you go.
Right. So these would be these look like those are as well.
These are also decagonal wings.
They just have an extra wing coming off the top and it looks retarded.
It looks a bit. Yeah, it looks a bit dumb.
I mean, it adds to be spinning.
It looks like it adds to cannons, which percentage wise
is a pretty hefty increase in fire.
Mm hmm.
And I assume, well, I don't know, it just it seems
cumbersome. It is.
It's almost like a meme looking TIE fighter.
Um.
I don't have to like a set of.
I thought I found this, though.
I think this is funny.
It's that's the TIE molar, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
People want me to acknowledge the TIE baller.
What is that?
It's a TIE molar.
Oh, well, hang on.
Do you want those like little wings, the things that make it fly?
Why have those?
No, no, why?
Those aren't wings that provide lift.
TIE stands for twin ion engine.
Yeah, idiot.
Oh, so I believe I don't think that those are actually.
Do you remember Rags? Do you remember?
No, it makes sense that you think they're wings.
And I mean, you look at that and it's like, yeah, it's clear.
Oh, I felt like I found an image of all of the different ties.
Rags, do you remember Red let me do when when Mike asks
if Rich knows what ice stands for?
And then he says, when I am injured, and he's like, fuck it, dude.
I just remember it.
I just know it.
I'm really I'm really good at that sort of thing, I guess.
Does any of these look like Hello, Greedos?
Oh, my goodness.
It gets to the bottom of this.
That's what I said.
Like, God, that image is horrible.
Why did you?
It looks like he's trying to do a TIE fighter
trying to do a TIE fighter because the wings are straight.
Maybe it's pretty clear that he's doing that.
We're trying to help it.
We're like, maybe it was this one.
Or this one with one wing in the middle and two cockpits on either side.
Yeah, I saw that one as well.
That's insane. Why not at this point?
That's like a sandwich where the meat is on the outside.
And they pick up the piece of bread.
Both the meats fall off.
You're like, I don't know why I did this.
It's a bad idea of the ion engines.
I assume the little panels.
Those are the bits that are twin, right?
This is a bad image.
There's no time molar in there.
I think the ion engines are part of the interior cockpit,
because the whole point of the twin ion engines
is that they allow propulsion with it to in any direction.
I disagree. Not like thrusters per se.
Yeah, but aren't those surely those surely that's why they have those
wide bits out there, what else would they be for?
I don't know.
It's I'm not sure.
But then, you know, the one with only you know, the one with the three
that still gets me called a TIE fighter because, you know, just try ion engines.
Right. You know, so I don't I don't know if those reach.
And then it's a TIE fighter.
No, it is. I've decided.
And then the one with only one, the manager's decide
fighter, because it's it's only got one.
So it has just been an eye fighter.
And I am an engine fighter.
I find being an ion engine. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense.
It was important that we went through this.
Obviously.
Oh, my God, I found one with red wings.
I think, you know, I don't know.
I saw the one with red wings.
Red wings. Yeah, red wings.
That's crazy. Yeah.
Was red wings the name of that George Lucas film?
Or I think it was with an else.
I want to get like a.
Oh, here's a cross section so.
Red tails. It looks like.
So it looks like the wings is basically the wings
are solar arrays, energy collectors, heat exchange matrices
and energy accumulator lines.
That all made sense to me.
They look really silly without the wings.
It just be like little balls going.
Um, yeah, let's see.
Cuckoo access has problems.
Because I because I.
From let me look at a TIE fighter rear view.
There are mining guild TIE fighters, the yellow.
Mining guild TIE fighters. Yeah.
Anyway, am I good at first play on this video?
No, we have to talk about TIE fighters.
Yeah, I'm super invested now.
But most people don't even know what a toxic brood assault.
Hello, Greedo.
Shut the fuck up, Mark.
I'm not really looking for anything at all.
No, right.
Sure, I don't know what the fuck.
Obviously, they got a lot of listeners
if they're just continuously
drain in their asshole into this chat right now.
Draining their asshole.
We didn't even try right now.
We didn't even like said people.
We just said leave below.
No, we can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
We can't.
Couldn't tell them to go anywhere.
No, but we drained our asshole.
I've never heard someone explain it that way.
Training their asshole.
He's calling our audience shit.
No, he's calling the thing they're doing shit.
No, he said we're training our asshole.
He's like we're training our assholes because our chat is going over there.
He is indirectly calling our audience shit when our audience is probably the best audience
that's ever been.
Yeah, I was gonna say best audience on YouTube.
Well, according to shit or.
Just asking who shit?
I don't know.
Are you friends with him?
Does he often give you recommendations?
He smells really bad.
That shit was male.
I never did.
Well, why would you why would you ever imply
that shit could not be male?
Yeah, what the fuck, Jay?
Shit can be whatever they want to be.
They. Yeah, they.
You mean he?
Well, I don't think this has been established.
How could you say something so horrible?
I'm very practiced.
Which fun analog teak.
Thank you for the Super
Chan chump sport, Don bless.
Praise be to tunnel anyway, guys.
What is this shit?
Tunnel, tunnel.
Anyway, you know, it is that
is that is that a suppository that you stick up your asshole?
What? Or is that suppository?
It's weird. It's weird that he'd go there first.
That's all I'm saying.
What? Why does he have a fascinating?
Well, I mean, I do, too.
But why does he have a fascinating?
The best.
He probably he probably doesn't even lick him.
I was going to say, does he even take off the basket?
I don't know.
He probably doesn't know that suppository going into the rhino's asshole.
Everyone who disagrees with Greedo is a troll, apparently.
It's it's pretty obvious that you guys have never been on these streams
and maybe don't really know the vibe of this channel.
But the themes of the channel.
You don't know the look at those two of the minecraft is looking
to pressingly on this malformed tie fight.
We're being held here against our will help.
Oh, my God. I've noticed another asymmetry.
No, stop. I think it's which one.
Look at the diagonal lines on the on the like the diagonal line
that's like to the top left of each way.
Yeah. The different place on each side.
Yeah, that is a little bit of planning.
That's quite the eyesore, actually.
One of them has got like a like ends in between the little diagonal lines
and one of the men's on it.
So one of them's like got a little clump of three blocks altogether
and one of them's not.
If the emperor saw this, he'd be pissed.
Well, it's odd that a channel that devotes itself pretty much entirely
to Star Wars would fuck up a TIE fighter.
So so much.
Well, it's it's minecraft, though.
Does he does he like do anything about minecraft on this channel?
You don't have to do anything about minecraft.
I was going to say it's not exactly rocket science
to understand binary colors like each wing.
Maybe each of them built one of them.
And now that's very true.
Why would they do it that way?
However, I still I still feel as if this is Hello, Gradle stream,
which does make him the director.
And it does. It is kind of his responsibility.
The buck stops with his green.
So everything is his fault.
And he should take full responsibility, including his.
All eventually does fall onto him.
Yes.
The furthest thing from the truth ever.
But, hey, enjoy it, guys.
Spin whatever you want to spin.
What in the flying fuck?
I appreciate the super chats, you silly gooses.
If I ever do the what is it, Efap?
I'm going to have to talk to them about
all the silly rhinos and anime characters.
Anime characters, anime characters.
What the fuck is he talking about?
Like, he sees Rhino Milk and he's like, that's so anime.
This reminds me of a Rhino Milk anime.
The dawn is anime. Total anime total.
That invade live.
Invade livestream.
We literally haven't said anything bad to him.
They haven't they haven't said anything bad about you at all.
Fence to it.
Actually, I've seen this before, and I know he doesn't take offense to it.
So I know, but referring to it as an invasion is an invasion.
He said the word invade.
It was an answer.
I am.
I greatly appreciate that.
Hello, Greedo, are you a massive?
Be honest, I don't know what the fuck a massive is so much.
Oh, man, he reads them with this.
Right. This is such a lack of enthusiasm and passion.
The fuck a massive is
with a little freedom.
Are you a massive?
Feel old, a massive urban dictionary,
a Minecraft for the fucking stormtrooper helmet on.
Yes, he's checking every dictionary for the definition of massive.
People collective Jamaican origin.
I think I'm Jamaican.
That's my favorite. What?
No, but I appreciate the the Super Chat and channel support this afternoon
or this evening, man.
Important to note that the chat has told him that the 24 hour
EFAP will be continuing after the Jaguar game.
So just saying, that is not an excuse.
Is that really what that means?
No. Why the hell do you think it means you're a Jamaican?
Absolutely is what.
Yes, that is definitely what we mean, that you are.
You are making massive Jamaican me mad.
Hello, Greedo.
I'm sorry.
No, that's not what I can't be what that means.
A massive somebody, somebody translate here.
He means fat.
No, I'm about 195 pounds and almost six to.
I'm good. I'm all right.
I'm glad you clarified that.
The rest of this build is beautiful.
Eric Stewart, thank you for the Super Chat and channel support.
Don Medea bless cosmic beautiful.
Well, like, OK, look at the the crash trip there.
Well, that's nicely built.
Is it? Hang on.
Hang on. Is this the is this the battlefront map?
Yes, this is the OG battlefront map.
I'm pretty sure that there's a hell of a lot that's missing from it.
If they were trying to build that, I know.
But like that, it's clearly not done. Right.
Why would there be a giant TIE fighter randomly?
Yeah. And also there's an ATST.
Yeah. What the fuck, Jay?
We had ATSTs on that.
Also, I can't hear canteen.
There was one behind the little behind the big arena.
There was an ATST. Yeah.
Was it usable? Yeah.
Oh, wait. Sorry. No, it's Minecraft.
No, I'm talking about the battlefront version, not his vision.
The original Star Wars Battlefront.
Yeah, I was thinking about front two in.
We don't want Mos Eisley, right?
Or are you talking about something else?
Mos Eisley and the first battlefront.
It had one. It had one ATST.
Not in that place that one actually is.
But you could drive it there if you wanted to.
And then it had a crash ship next to a big, like, round building,
which is why I'm thinking it's that map,
because that that looks exactly like maybe it's in progress.
Yeah, I mean, I assume.
Why why a giant TIE fighter, though?
That's yeah, I'm not sure.
Well, I don't I don't remember an ATST on Mos Eisley.
Wait, I swear it was an ATST.
Now, you might be thinking of Dune Sea.
No, not Dune Sea.
Because behind the big Coliseum, there was there was definitely a big vehicle
that you could use.
I'm fairly confident it was an ATST, but it might have been
if that was a rebel command post, it could have been something else.
I don't know the maps from Battlefront one as well as I do, too.
I don't know. I can't I can't quite remember, but I don't I don't recall one.
Oh, my God, I searched Mos Eisley still as Battlefront.
And all I'm getting is the new shit. Oh, no.
I'm so sorry.
I'm going to boot up my Xbox now.
Wait, really?
No, I can't I can't I cannot remember.
Star Wars battle.
Surely Chad can let us know.
Surely there's people in chat who remember when I have been having a look.
I haven't seen any definitive answers, but so I can see the vehicle spawn.
So there's definitely a vehicle spawn in the place that I know it is.
But would it but would it spawn an ATST?
Because I would be the vehicle to have a tank.
I think there was a tank on the level like like the like the the
separatists had there. Yes, I found it. I found it. I found it on the wiki.
It says the map of vehicles. Star Wars Battlefront only.
Clone Wars, AAT, Galactic Civil War, ATST.
OK. That's weird.
How come I don't remember it? That's odd.
Did you play mostly number one or number two?
I love your PFP, Rex.
Oh, thank you.
Go, geez. Also, hi, desk bullshit.
How do you do?
Hello, my fellow Jamaican.
We've got we've got a whole selection of regulars on this one.
How wonderful. Indeed.
I'm sorry, Chad. We had no choice.
We had to bring in these people.
They just they paid to be.
He had a choice. I voted against it.
He did. Please. I needed attention. Please.
Rags voted for it to just be himself.
And I was like, maybe, maybe it would have been a great stream.
We're currently could have been a magical stream.
We're currently watching Hello, Greedo deal with massives.
Massives everywhere. He means fat.
No, I'm I'm about one hundred and ninety five pounds and six to I'm good.
I'm all right.
Eric Stewart, thank you for the super change on sport.
Don Medea blessed be the cosmic chicken.
Why are people so fucking weird?
How dare you say?
Why are people so fucking weird?
Said the guy live streaming with a webcam
is Minecraft world while wearing a stormtrooper helmet
in his white, pinky lit room.
I mean, everyone has their own thing, their own style. Yeah.
Yeah. And that's weird.
The cosmic chicken and he has pink room.
Yes, some bullshit.
What's a good read though?
Well, I just I just feel like live streaming Minecraft
wearing a stormtrooper helmet does sort of put you
in the category of maybe before you call other people
weird for giving you money.
Maybe, maybe be like, yeah, I am doing all this weird
or is it just strange?
Like how far into the into the bizarre are we?
It's just a weird way.
Why? What's the difference between strange and weird?
Oh, I figured you would know that, you know, it's like degrees of bizarro.
Right. Like which is more unusual, strange or weird?
Chat say weird.
Someone help me. I don't know.
In terms of deviation from normalcy is weirder or I think weird
is more weird than strange. I'm saying weird.
I'm saying weird. Yeah.
Strange is almost like that's out of character.
Weird is like confirmed to be strange.
I'd say weird is more vulgar.
So if you had, for instance, if you were a United States
Air Force official and you were writing up a document
to submit to the Pentagon about a an unidentified flying object
sighting, you would call it strange before you would call it weird.
Exactly.
I feel like that is an apt hypothetical that we're both odd.
Very odd.
That's the opposite of even.
I would say strange before odd. Yeah.
However, I would rank odd better than weird.
Like if you were at a if you were at a party and there was a
if there was someone who was unusual, right, you would you go to your friend
and you'd say that's an odd that's that's an odd character
before you'd say that's a weird dude.
No, I think that's a weird first.
Well, yeah, that's because you're you're vulgar.
That's because you don't know anything about class
and you don't know anything about the proper decorum
in those kinds of situations about like peculiar.
Peculiar would be an excellent way to phrase it.
Absolutely. Peculiar would be fantastic.
What I'm very much favor of the word peculiar.
I would even say queer abnormal.
Abnormal. I wouldn't say abnormal.
Abnormal generally has the connotation that has like maybe
almost like a medical connotation.
Unusual doesn't think abnormal has a different implication to unusual.
I feel irregular, atypical.
For instance, being gay is abnormal.
It's true. Define normal.
Well, at that point, I'm assuming it means most common is normal.
A normal might say it's normal a synonym with common
or conspicuous, maybe you could say conspicuous
with is normal just within the realms of like something that you might encounter
and like not not be like, hmm, this is unusual.
I suppose you could probably define it in multiple ways, right?
And unusual would be a deviation from typical.
If you meet if you meet a gay person, you're going to be like, what the fuck?
Would you say what the fuck to everything that's abnormal?
Well, if you like, OK, to what degree is it like?
Yeah, sure. Like if.
Because if something is like really abnormal in a way that's like noteworthy,
being gay isn't like so unusual that you're like,
you're actually going to make a deal out of it.
It's not like, well, you're gay.
Whoa, really?
You don't point to them and say you're abnormal.
No, I don't. I've only done that like three times.
I don't typically use the term normal.
I use the term average, but I don't know what the antithesis is.
Well, I feel like average is more like a it's like a mean number.
No, average mean a different mathematically.
Yeah, you could quantify average.
No. Are they the same shit?
No, I think average is more of a mathematical connotation to it.
The mean, I think, is the most common value.
And the average is if you add them all by by the number of values you have.
I think it's a whole set of names for that, too. Right.
Like mean and median.
See, I think the median is the median is the halfway point
between your high mean is value mean is average.
I don't remember these.
Well, mean is the average number.
Median is the middle value of all the ones that you have did.
And the mode is the value that occurs the most times.
Right. I remember being told this.
I've forgotten all of it, though.
Yeah, that's because you never use this in your daily life like ever.
We just did. We just did.
Yeah, we did. It only took us.
And you might say decades.
You might say it was abnormal in which we used it.
We didn't talk. We didn't use it. We just talked about it.
Well, because both mean and average refer to the sum of all the values
just use the knowledge of it to regurgitate said knowledge to us.
We didn't. Yes, it's almost like it's almost like if you had a rule
that said you couldn't talk about the rules so fast right now.
Yeah, that's because this is this is some shit that people probably want.
Well, they probably went away in on it.
It stopped. I think it was just loading slowly for me.
And then went, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Because it was like it was it was crazy.
It was insane. It was like a it's like a sea of chat.
So anyway, back to the guy streaming in her Hello, Grillo mass.
Every time we cover Hello, Grillo, we go on these long ass
tangents about everything else because of how insanely uninteresting he is.
And it's not our fault. It's not our fault.
That would be victim blaming.
Conversely, you're welcome to come on.
You've had whatever you want. Hello, Grillo. Yes.
But we what would happen? It would be it would be it would be embarrassing
of us as guests if you have to focus.
And we had these strange tangents while he was here.
And we actually forgot that he was a part of.
I was just imagine like, come on, man.
What's with this tie for you? Come on. Well, no.
You do that.
Zach Gilbert, thank you for the Super Chat channel.
Support. If app means bro.
What? I like.
It's a very real laugh.
He's considered. You can tell.
He's like, oh, I'm sure I'm supposed to react to this.
But to say the thing of bathwater.
This is the most internet as that's that's a descriptive.
This is the most internet this chat has ever been.
Really? Hmm.
Wow. He leads a tame existence.
And I'm kidding.
I was friends are just watching him.
All right. The audience is very Internet.
The field, very Internet, a very Internet Internet.
This is indeed on the Internet.
I'm on a newspaper. Get ready.
Oh, the toxic. We're going on.
Oh, yeah. You and me both, Corey.
Praise the cosmic chicken. Praise the dawn.
Toxic brew. Thumbs up.
Yeah, I'm so lost to imagining like the chat wasn't there.
And this is just infected his mind.
And this is like the effect disease.
He thinks about this that night.
Like cosmic chicken.
As he's sleeping with his helmet.
It's cosmic chicken.
Praise the dawn. Flea from Goliath.
What can Goliath do for you?
Ask not what Goliath can do for you.
Ask what you can do for Goliath.
Mm hmm. It is what I say.
That's the perfect way to describe it.
This is the most Internet.
This chat has ever been.
Huh? Well, somebody like no shit.
What will somebody explain to me the rhino milk thing?
I'm super curious. Please do.
How does one explain that? It's really the quickest you can go.
Is it to me?
Why? Well, hold up.
Why don't we have Jay explain rhino milk to all of us?
It's delicious. You described it in a way away.
So there was a day when I wanted to destroy more with facts and logic.
And so I did that by saying that, you know,
obviously, the reason they have rhinos and Wakanda is for their milk
and for their ivory and their meat and their meat.
That's the holy trinity of an animal is like the milk ivory meat.
If you'd explain this much so far, I'll agree to be like, Hey,
he wouldn't understand, but he would just want you to continue to get it over with.
And then the rhino milk
grew into what it is now by being repeated.
And every time it was repeated, it became more powerful.
As is our of an eat meat.
And until the point where it like reaches critical mass and starts dying off.
Critical massive.
We're still waiting for that.
Rhino milk is not dying off for some reason.
It's still a rhino milk.
Rhino milk peaked a while ago.
Like whenever there was a anything happened on the stream,
people would just be like saying milk and that don't do that anymore.
I think I think it's got some staying power.
Like when people were talking about religion earlier,
I was seeing Christian milk in the chat.
When we did the whole Christian milk, when Totald said the
but at the end of the rainbow, people posting rainbow milk.
Don't forget the spider milk.
The apex homo milk, the smaller memes to drop off.
Oh, yes.
But, you know, smaller means just they cannot compete with the big memes.
It's a doggy dog world out there and meme land.
Think of it as like agar.io, that game.
It's like all little circles, like they're all memes and rhino milk
is like one of the biggest memes there and it's just eating the smaller memes.
I like that you needed to use agar.io for that.
Yeah, it's a it's a harsh world.
Like I said, it's really harsh.
Some some memes, we can't even reference the ones that have been eaten
because we've forgotten them.
Should you like an efap games of .io game?
An efap like, yes, yes.
What have you just said?
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just do an efap games of .io games like agar.io.
This music in the background is fucking killing me, by the way.
I know, it's terrible.
It's it's just like everything on screen for me.
Twitch, YouTuber.
Like, there's like one, two, three, four windows on the right.
Then you have like four things on the bottom of like it's grabbed, which was.
It's stay on target.
Why the Star Wars?
Yeah, stay on target.
Stay on target.
Hello, Greedo.
I like how I like how my stream is like the complete opposite.
You have my webcam and that's that's it.
So Hello Greedo appears one, two, three, four, five times.
Not including himself.
Because he's got his four links at the bottom.
And then in case it hadn't sunk in yet.
A red Hello Greedo.
It looks like a space for something, though.
Does something appear there?
I don't know.
I don't know, whatever he arrives, it says Hello Greedo.
Hello, Hello Greedo.
Hello, hello, poor kids.
No, I'm going to grab alcohol.
Oh, no. I mean, do we all have access to such?
Oh, well, Mel's working tomorrow.
Also, I drank all day last night like yesterday last night.
Yeah, I just realized how stupid I was, and I hope no one would notice.
I'm going to grab that shit.
Well, it's we're not live, don't worry.
Oh, great.
There's just like a glitch.
All these random things getting posted into my chat.
Like this is weird emoji glitch posts like rhino milk.
I don't know what the fuck that is.
What are those two bozos doing?
Well, they're both muted. Wow.
What's that about?
I don't know.
I haven't the sexy time break.
Dragon, someone burst into each of their rooms saying,
how dare you go on that Nazi podcast and start slapping metal.
Someone, oh, metal drinking what else is new?
And I'm actually not drinking right now.
I read what the Reddit said about you Nazis
who don't like some movies and like some.
We like some art, but not some other art.
What do you believe?
There's people out there that if they were given the choice to kill
the one person on this Earth, they would be like, can it be two?
Can it be rags and molar?
You've destroyed everything.
Can I just kill them halfway each?
I could it's like you could erase one piece of media from the world
in order to get a better place in there, like a fab as a whole.
It's like, would it be molars channel, rags channel?
Because the stressed out face about to press the button.
They're also terrible.
Yeah, I can't wait to still spread their Nazi influence no matter what.
I can't wait to be canceled one day.
Oh, yeah, yeah, it's going to happen for all of us.
It's going to be great.
I'm looking forward to it because I'll say episode nine is great.
And then my whole channel will just be filled with comments about being canceled.
My guys, the character development is canceled.
Cancel.
That sounds like you're talking about something bad.
We were talking about your life.
The whole we were at the last chapter that sound pretty bad.
You basically say that episode nine is really well written when it's not.
And then you get canceled and we all try and defend you, but it's too late.
And you're gone.
You leave the Internet because everyone says you canceled.
Don't mean to veps.
Yeah, it doesn't matter how many Minecraft videos you make, Jay.
Yeah, Jay, what the fuck?
My latest Minecraft video has like all of the people have seen it.
How has that been?
How has the Minecraft community felt about your video?
There are strongly mixed feelings.
A Minecraft YouTuber used to watch their strongly mixed feelings.
There are strongly mixed feelings.
OK. A Minecraft YouTuber used to watch
said that he didn't like it.
And I was like, oh, is it because your information is limited?
Is that why, Jay?
Is it because a lot of people watch your video and they were like, Jay,
you didn't explain how to use the spreadsheet you just said to do it.
Jay, you suck.
Did you play Minecraft?
Is that what this is about?
He's a phony.
He never thought he's never actually played the game.
He just made the video.
Really? Never played it.
You've never played Minecraft.
I told him today we'd be covering video that mentions Minecraft.
So he needs to read up.
And that's why he was making all these weird comments.
I never actually played Minecraft.
I have played Minecraft.
I've got like too many hours in that game.
I don't know. I I got it like when it was still an alpha.
All right. You get it.
When it's a Minecraft not to brag.
I'm a fucking Minecraft veteran.
Yeah, because I got the game before they had ladders.
I got the game.
And it's just a menu screen. That was it.
I got I got.
Yeah, I remember was
was the nether being added.
Hang on.
Oh, that's alpha updates.
When will that is added?
I've never played it. I'm sorry.
Oh, Rags, he's going to call you out in a second, isn't he?
Like you need to pay for this.
All right. That's fucking ages ago.
So my memory will be fuzzy.
But I remember having to.
I still I still remember like my my first world in my head.
And if you wanted to go down, you'd have to like build blocks.
And you can use blocks as a staircase.
Fucking medieval age.
You know, that is what I would do for the nether. So.
So anyway, Bill.
And that is what that is.
We're in the base game when it came out, right?
Yeah, sure.
Ladders were when I started, there were no ladders.
Fact checked. Fuck them up.
Ladders were ladders were like that was before it was.
So did you play in dev?
That was before alpha, but they were added.
Let me see.
Let me double check because I got it ages ago.
So let me check.
Maybe it's possible that I didn't know ladders even existed.
And then someone said, hey, do you know about ladders?
And I took that as they added them, which people knew about community
because that is right because I remember my first world
and I didn't have ladders in it.
And that was way back in the day where like animals would spawn
ambiently due to light sources and things like that. Yeah.
So did was the world infinite because ladders were added
at the same time they added infinite wealth generation.
That I I can't remember if I had an infinite world or not.
I cannot remember.
I just remember that my world didn't have any ladders
and I didn't think anything of it.
Somebody's a phony.
Probably Matt. No, I'm just I'm tell I am accurately representing what I remember.
I'm just I'm just a patron just like, you know, you're going through life going.
There are no ladders here, but I don't know what a ladder is.
So that doesn't bother me.
No, I know what ladders were.
It just was one of those things.
No, if that was if that was the real world, then that was the real world.
I know what ladders were as if they've stopped being
ladders. Well, yeah, they were once very valued in our society.
But then came the dark times.
No more. Only true 90s kids will remember ladders.
That is a fucking cool man.
Everyone uses their jet packs to get everywhere these days,
but ladders, that's where it was at.
A video that was sitting in a room and a black panther where
I had stairs everywhere.
I didn't have any ladders.
I was I was more of a stag guy myself.
Now it's just flat.
They covered a video defending a scene in Black Panther
where they farmed rhinos arguing they could milk them.
I don't even remember rhinos in Black Panther.
How can you not remember the run?
I was going to say they're in the climax, the big rhino fight.
So they have to get all reincorporated in.
Synth Verity.
Thank you so much for the super channel support, man.
I greatly appreciate that.
It might have been actually.
Holy shit, Rags, you're one of the biggest
Minecraft veterans there is.
Nice. You guys should like I had a friend.
I had a friend who I only learned about it through word of mouth through a friend.
And I gave money to his dad so that he could use his credit card
because I didn't have one in order to get Minecraft.
So if this was 2010, it might have actually it might have been.
I know that I got I got Minecraft and.
Hang on, I think I can't remember what year it was.
It was so fucking long ago, 2010.
They were added into the game.
Yeah, in June, seems like June 7th.
Now, it's possible that they existed.
I just didn't know they existed.
What a wonderful, naive will to be in.
We don't know ladders or anything.
Added in June 2010. Yeah, maybe.
But they changed my life forever.
Oh, when I discovered ladders.
I'm just I'm just imagining it in the real life.
Like you've been just been putting boxes on top of each other.
It's like, man, I hope I wish they were like a better way.
That's what my first world was.
There were there were no ladders.
Well, you can just make stairs in like a two by two area.
By doing like a spiral staircase.
Probably what he did. Probably what he did.
I you couldn't use a two by two, because then by the time it loops,
they would hit itself because you need room for you to buy two.
It does work. No, it didn't.
I'm playing my show you I will hang on.
I'll do it. Oh, my God.
I'll do it. Well, I because if you need two spaces, because you'll need.
Let's see. Let me make a I don't think you can do it two by two.
You can't do it. That's how I mine rags.
That's how I fucking. Why would you not use?
Why would you not use ladders?
Because we need a phenomena.
A name for this phenomenon.
One for Jay and two for rags. OK.
Well, no, I can I can do it right now.
I'm playing minecrafts objective.
I didn't say the vote means anything.
I just want to see it when I'm here.
I'm going to try and write letters here.
So let's see if I can do a two by two.
You know, vote one for one plus one equals two and two.
One plus one equals three.
Yeah, and get one, one, one, two, one, two.
Yeah, you can't do it.
I just tried it. You can't do it.
I can show you right now.
I'm looking at it right now. I just did it.
Well, you did it wrong.
Let's know it's a two by two. No.
So we just call this to make sure.
Now, just to make sure, because this is important,
we're talking about are we talking about blocks or stairs?
Because at the time, there were stairs and blocks.
Yeah, you can't do it with blocks.
You can't. You can't.
I'm looking at it right now. I just made it.
You say it backs around on itself
before you have achieved enough distance.
No, it doesn't.
Yeah, it does. I'm looking at it right now.
I will screenshot it to you.
You see, I jumped off.
Here's the thing. I jumped off of it.
And in order to get back up to continue, just to make sure
I can't get up past the second block.
Can I show my screen?
I can't even get past the first block.
How do I do that?
Oh, no. I said screenshots.
That's the easy way.
If you show the screen, it'll fuck up just cool.
You need the motion.
You need the motion. Do you?
Yes, it's important.
Also, my chrome is crashed, which is fun.
There there's a screenshot of it.
With normal blocks, you can't make it two by two.
Right. There's a screenshot right there for you.
They respond to the screenshot.
Jay, this is an epic debate doing it.
This is so the green on my screen shot, I can't.
I'm just I'm drinking some alcohol now, too.
Like, I can't walk down the stairs again because there's not enough space.
And there's a screenshot right there.
You can't do it.
Jay would maybe have to use.
I'm making it. I'm making I'm making a functioning version of this thing.
No, wait. Just look at his screenshot.
Tell us what's wrong with it, though.
I will. You could take off the bottom.
It looked like shit, though.
You could do it if you take off the bottom corner.
Yeah, you don't.
Why did you put in extra blocks that you don't need to do that?
It looks like shit.
Why would you make this? This is garbage.
If you're making it in something, then you can't see what it looks like.
Yes, you can.
No, but you're on it.
No, but if you're in can't see what it looks like.
And how do you know in walls if it's you were telling me you can't do it.
You just built it like you're floating.
That doesn't make sense.
It only exists because Minecraft doesn't have physics.
That makes sense.
You know, if you build something, not if you build it inside something.
Right. So if you if you like, if you just dug into the earth in that pattern,
it would look fine.
It looked like shit.
It would look fine.
And also be not only would it be a good way and pointless.
Why wouldn't you just use ladders?
Because they're not in the game.
Yes, they are. You can craft them.
I have them.
I thought the whole premise of this was whether or not it was possible,
not whether or not it was better than ladders.
Yeah, exactly.
We were talking about whether or not it was possible.
It is completely lost me now.
I don't even know what the fuck we're talking about anymore.
I think we've nailed it.
If you said it's possible, we're done.
This is the arrival debate all over again.
Yes, it is possible to build a a shitty garbage looking staircase
that is pointless. Yes.
I see the goalposts have been moved.
Yes, exactly.
You're saying it can't be done.
Well, it can be done, but it's ugly.
Yes, it is.
It is ugly and slow and pointless, but you can do it.
How the fuck did we get here?
I mean, because Jay is using very strange methods
of traversing terrain in a vertical fashion.
Yeah, you're strange, but do you accept this?
Yeah, I would ever do this.
I found a really nice Minecraft village in the world that I used
to prove rags wrong.
It's it's just nice.
The village, I don't know.
Why would you ever build a staircase like this?
I don't know because we don't have any wood on you and you're mining down.
How do you not have any wood on you?
Because you're underground and that's not what trees come from.
Oh, you're in a desert.
Trees are on the way because they're on the top.
Trees do come from underground, technically.
What if you're already underground rags and you're in a cave?
You don't prepare.
Well, what if you've lost your wood?
What kind of an amateur first rate miner
are you that you don't bring enough ladders?
Answer him, Jay, right.
Do you know how big my cactus farm is, right?
I have no idea how big your cat unless you can build cactus ladders.
I don't think he cares.
No, in this in the server that I was playing on until it got shut down.
Oh, not shut down, but you need mods to go on there now.
Wish I can't be bothered to install.
You could use you could sell cacti in like a server shop
and you could buy ladders from the shop.
And it was like a pretty you could buy a ladder ratio.
Just make them.
Well, you could buy all of the items.
That's what the shop was for.
Every item was valued.
So you could trade in your stuff.
You don't want free at an infinite amount.
You can make them from wood.
That's not for us, but that cost trees are renewable.
Yeah, that's not free.
They're practically free and have the wind power is renewable.
That's not free.
You could cut down all the trees that are constantly regrouping.
You are the strangest Minecraft player I have ever encountered.
But I got the cacti farm was like literally automatic.
So like it had water flows and stuff that like made the cacti like break.
OK, so you're going to you're going to expend the efforts
to create an automated cactus farm.
But you are going to spend money to buy ladders.
So close to get alcohol.
Right now, we've had the cacti go into a hopper into a chest, right?
And from that, because I had a chest that was always full of cacti,
because it was, you know, amazing.
I could buy anything I wanted using the cacti and it didn't matter what I wanted.
I could just get it with the cacti.
So I make one resource, you know, like, you know, like a real business
where you specialize in making one resource
and then you sell that resource in order to buy the things
you don't want to make yourself.
What an insanely roundabout way to acquire ladders.
I could also craft ladders if I wanted to, but I'm too important
because you're already getting the sticks and getting the blocks
to make the fences and to make your planks.
You don't need fancy fences for a cactus one.
Why would? Yeah, of course not.
Why would you assume that you did?
Because you just said, well, you're already getting the sticks
for the fences and the.
These are things that you already have, and you're constantly getting them
because you need for like for construction trees grow slowly.
Unless you have a different color, which you have, you have dark wood
and lighter wood for the cactus.
And then you can buy as many places you want.
Well, or is there any elevator music on yet?
Oh, it came and went.
You outlasted it. I'm impressed.
So anyway, making bad life choices.
I'm already getting somebody else to play Minecraft for him.
No, I was playing, but I was paying for my resources
because I owned a very lucrative cactus business.
So anyway, you want to see how this ends with Hello Greedo.
I would love to know how this ends with Hello Greedo.
Oh, my God, I close my Chrome, but I can't see it.
And we only wish you well and hope you and the Efap crew
have a good conversation for clarity.
The Efap is how you say an Efap crew is discouraging any harassment.
No, it's cool.
Wait, what are you doing?
I didn't do that.
I reopened the room and it went back to the start.
You're bad, Jay.
Crew is discouraging any harassment.
No, it's cool. I don't consider this harassment.
I'm I don't give a fuck.
Are you guys saying you guys seeing it like in the right place in the video?
Yes, because I'm seeing it.
I'm at eleven seconds.
Wait, it's pause.
Wait, it's.
It's paused for me, but I can hear it.
OK, OK.
So yes, there we go.
It's fixed. OK, good.
I appreciate the generosity there and the
the kind words in the super chat this evening.
Yeah, trust me, I don't give a shit.
I mean, it is disruptive.
It's incredibly disruptive.
Is it disruptive?
It's disruptive.
What is it disrupting?
They're giving you money.
Well, we call it isn't people love it when they get rated.
Oh, I mean, yeah, to a degree.
I mean, I guess not if you're a weenie.
Rags. Yeah, maybe not.
The staircase you built literally looks like a big curly turd.
Stop it, Jay.
Yeah, because I don't encourage you.
Go back to your cactus farm, you freak.
I like talking to, you know, channel viewers and everything,
but I don't consider it harassment.
That's silly as shit.
It is dumb. It's goofy.
You're dumb. Whoa, whoa.
But yeah, I don't, you know, the blasters that shot you.
How dare he say it's dumb.
They're loud.
I'm offended that he's saying it's dumb to worship the cosmic chicken.
I don't know how to deal with this.
I think it's dumb not to. Yeah.
I don't know.
Religions.
I'll say this.
I've said this before.
I turned down a lot of podcasts with people that I know
lately in the past year and a half just because
and I'm a broken record and some people will roll my eyes.
Fuck them. Some people will roll my eyes.
Some people will roll my eyes.
Somebody comes into the room and just kind of presses on the white.
You know, has has someone who comes in to roll his eyes and blink for him.
Grands his eyes.
We're not even covering a video today, but I'm making a note of that one.
Put it to Kandel.
Please, someone come and roll my eyes, please.
Oh, someone someone said J is stonks and that person is correct.
I am stonks.
My cacti will prevail.
People will roll your eyes, dude.
They will get, but, you know, my day,
I have an hour and a half to myself in the morning,
and then I have about two hours to myself in the evening to work.
Well, no, that would explain how low effort and terrible his videos are.
Also, I mean, this last time for a podcast, you can still pop on for an hour,
you know, especially if that's every day.
He what he's saying is I don't have time.
I only have hours.
Well, you know, so that's especially in the world.
That is a small amount of time.
That is a blink of an eye to the cosmic chicken.
Yes, I'll stop to work on freelance projects.
And that's that's my free time.
And other than that, I take care of my daughter
unless she's napping in the afternoon.
And that's kind of my freelance time as well.
So to carve out a section of time where I hop on a podcast,
he said, I'm streaming Minecraft.
I don't know if I can know if I can spare the time.
I guess does he consider this a part of his freelance work?
I guess he is making money doing this.
I assume he would.
Yeah. But I mean, I'm sure surely he'd be OK with maybe we have to pay
for him to come on, you fab.
But that might be how it works.
Like, however much you make a chance to him.
Not enough.
You know, like it ran on it this time.
Make it rain on the Greedo mass.
Difficult.
There's three things that I do.
Greedo included, not my kid included.
So you go to my kid.
There's four, you know, three to I agree to shouldn't it be?
Hello, trooper.
I don't know. I don't think so.
You know, I people have said, yeah, it's an excuse.
Fucking eat shit.
That is an excuse.
Well, eat, eat shit, eat shit with.
Yeah, he's told us that I only have hours free per day,
so I can't really go on podcast because they'll roll by eyes.
I don't know what to make of this, Greedo.
Just just say you're not interested.
I have like three hours to myself a day.
Three hours.
You don't have to come over 20.
I can't I can't go on a podcast.
I literally have three hours of free time.
That's a lot more than a lot of people.
That's strange.
But yeah, I appreciate the the the sincerity there since
eventually I'll never say never.
I've never listened.
He just said never.
Yeah, he did say no twice.
This is like the first time this has ever happened on a stream
or a bunch of people come over and that's a freebie.
Tell me to immediately stop my stream to go on another stream.
Kind of silly.
No, you could stream.
No, you don't have to stop your stream.
You could stream you being on our stream.
Yeah, you could.
Yeah, it's not that says you have you don't have to stop your stream.
What a strange man.
Silly boy.
Well, tongue in Monday.
Raiseman.
Yes, Raisman.
Mojo.
So another another fun and interesting update,
because, you know, Hello, Greedos.
I like to think of him as a fun guy.
Then there's other people who are less fun.
You guys heard of fat man falling.
Anyway, here to that, he's a YouTuber.
No, but that sounds terrifying.
He's looking here.
He is not a fan of me.
He's very much what you would call the opposite of a fan of me rags.
Would you do us the honors of reading out this tweet he sent about me
a long time ago, and then I'll explain why it's relevant.
All right.
So Mikey Fell at Fat Man Falling says, I'm pretty sure mauler
and cinema sins are two halves of the same being.
And when they split, cinema sins got all the charisma and integrity
and understanding of media analysis and argumentation.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Snipe on Twitter, but they never explain why you're wrong.
They love sniping at me.
They never explain why you're wrong.
I'm sorry.
I just I left so hard at that.
I pulled my headphone.
Was anything good said then?
That's crazy.
The implications of cinema sins have charisma and integrity alone
integrity watch my hang on hang on watch my I have a two-hour series
which is going to be finished soon.
Talking about how like literally I think it's about 70% of the stuff
they say is objectively wrong.
So could you say that?
Yeah, but that's not analysis.
Wrong.
J bad.
Objectively false statement 70% of content.
Charisma that's subjective, but also no.
What does this integrity come from?
I'm surprised.
He's going to make a comment about my integrity.
Where's I'd be curious where have you where have you shown
lacking integrity?
I don't know.
You said a dread.
You said the dreaded f-word.
Well, then in the like in later ones, he calls his he calls his
writing like shallow trite and dishonest done done.
Oh, yeah, I was going to say it goes on.
Don't you want to read the writing is shallow?
Don't want to check out the rest of it is.
Yeah, there's more down there.
Oh, I don't know why both halves of this hypothetical being
got into film criticism, but hopefully you don't think I
literally believe the exact diction I used physically happened
and instead come away understanding my intention was to
say his writing is shallow trite and dishonest.
Well, that's that's weird because he clearly says that cinema
he's saying here that you don't have charisma integrity and
understanding of media analysis or argumentation and then
he's like, oh, but I don't mean it.
Well, no, so I think what he's saying is you're not supposed
to actually believe that I was split apart from cinema sins
and some kind of disastrous scientific experiment.
Like that's what he's saying.
Oh, I don't literally believe that what I'm in the park that
I referenced at all, which kind of goes to support the idea
that he's being I don't know because he said physically
that idea.
Yeah, sort out the spam in the chat, please.
Raid me, raid me, raid me, raid me, raid me.
Oh from that one guy.
Yeah, hopefully if he doesn't go away metal will kill him.
I just hit him.
I just hit him on the top.
There you go.
Rags can hit him too.
I forgot you guys have the wrenches.
So he goes on and says, let's see, his videos are seemingly
so long, seemingly so long.
Okay, because they can't stand up to people who understand
what he's saying.
What?
No, that that I'm going to have to pause in the sound.
What does this mean?
His videos are seemingly so long because they can't stand
up to people who understand what he's saying.
So I guess what he's trying to say is that you're literally
trying to use length in order to drown out people who don't
agree with you.
He's trying to drown.
He says he's trying to drown out people who are actually
understand him.
I mean, is it so crazy to believe that they're as long
as they are because I just had a bunch of things I wanted
to say and that's how long it took?
No.
No, that's impossible.
Sorry.
What a baffling sentence.
Anyway, the tweet goes on.
He spent an hour trying to discredit all criticism of him
when where?
Yeah, which he didn't by claiming they hide behind subjective
opinions and caps that off by saying his objective reasoning
may be wrong.
Yeah, what's the contradiction there?
First of all, it's interesting that he says I'm trying to
discredit criticism of myself when I criticize myself.
I have a section where I explain like my biggest blunders
and there's more since that time.
I made the Captain Marvel video where I said there are 500
stars in the Milky Way.
I think I said which is really wrong like embarrassingly
wrong and funny thing is me and Fringy looked for that
number and I don't know how it escaped us and then proof
watching from other people.
I noticed how dumb that was like soon after releasing the
video and I was like fuck.
Why did I how did that escape me?
Yeah, that's wrong and it happened because I didn't catch
it. I made a mistake.
I don't use I don't try and stop myself from being criticized.
I'm actually like pretty cool with it.
It's not criticism.
If you tell me you don't like my video again, is that what
he's getting at because like I don't care if you don't like
my video.
I'm like, okay, that's useless to me.
Moving on, but if that's me discrediting or trying to hide
away from criticism and that's an interesting these people
don't actually watch your videos.
I think like they literally do not watch your videos.
They just tape.
I think that what they think they are is just formed off
of random bits and pieces of what other people have said
that they cobble together.
It sounds like news sharing in general really.
I don't know.
Why is this a problem?
By the way, objective reasoning may be wrong.
Why does he say that like it's a bad thing?
It's like yeah and fuck that up mistakes impossible.
Yeah, imagine being so he calls you out and says that
you don't have integrity and then also says that you say
you could be wrong.
What a strange individual.
What a what an absolute buffoon.
What an imbecile.
But he is happy to hear you using it rags.
He says at the end as if that's a much worse version of
the same defense dishonestly edited to pander to his audience.
What does that mean?
I'm not sure which I have no he's referring to.
He says and follows that up with the blatantly subjective
take that the saga was complete.
I mean, okay, so given him the maximum benefit of the doubt.
I do think I say the saga was complete in reference to one
through six or the very least four through six.
And if someone was like that's completely subjective.
I'd be like, oh, okay.
Well, I need to define what I mean by complete.
I suppose that the story has reached a climax that the journeys
are completed would agree with with characters.
I think they would be reasonable to it to agree with that,
but I wouldn't even be against the idea that saying that's
subjective.
I'd be like, yeah, okay, fine.
Nothing's never really ended.
If that's what you're saying, fine.
You can justify the subjective nature of the claim.
That's all it does is it shifts it from being let's use the
standard to determine whether or not there's a level of
completeness here to subjectively.
I think it's complete and here are all the references that
I'm going to use to back this up and besides like if he
considers this me criticizing myself and so be it.
But yeah, you could have carried it on and made it really
good and I'd be okay with it.
You could have had episodes 7, 8 and 9 that were really good.
Sure.
And then we'd be like, but it's complete mauler.
So would you really want that?
It's like, well, I guess I'm okay with a story carrying on if
it's really awesome.
But you didn't need to.
I didn't need more films after the OT.
Did anybody need that?
Well, I guess it's a matter of what is it to need a film?
You know, let's open up a whole of the whole other thing.
Yeah, that's just one definition away from clearing up.
So he's not a fan of me is the point of that and I conversation
ended with me back and forth thing with him and I'm not sure
if I got the screenshot on hand.
We got something else.
I want to show you guys first, but I basically like he says
to me that YouTube isn't the platform for me or something
like that.
And then I was like, it's just blatantly untrue and I referenced
my subscriber count and then he comes back with like wow trying
to say you've got more subscribers.
That means you're valid or something like that.
I was like, no.
Just the people want to see my work.
I have an audience here.
So it is a place for me.
Exactly.
And did he at least have a suggestion?
Well, he eventually conceded the conversation ends with him
saying something like yeah, okay fine.
You're still an asshole or something like that.
And I'm like, okay fine.
Well, I was like, okay fine, but we'll you know, we can just
let me know if you want to talk about this sometime and he
was like, yeah fine.
I'll keep it in mind.
I was like, okay cool.
And that was like a year ago.
I was like, yeah, it's fine.
Well, half a year ago, whatever.
It doesn't really know.
No, he's not.
Well, I mean he can still but this happened.
He's got he's on a podcast with friends of his I suppose.
I have no context for what this is.
I was just sent this and listen to it.
I found it amusing.
But he's in the top right.
And then guy in the top left, I believe is a fan of mine in
some way shape or form or at least he watches for my work
and let's just listen to what they say and discuss it cuz
this is going to be interesting.
Does he have a car right?
Oh, what an insanely ugly person.
Okay.
So well that she's off using the restroom.
I've been watching you know, I in the background while I'm
writing and I'm doing work.
I listen to you fap.
Well, mostly any kind of podcast.
He looks like a fan.
High five.
Yeah, I assume he might be listening to this right now.
Hello Celtic Phoenix.
How do you do?
Hello Celtic Phoenix.
Thanks for watching and fat man.
It's very interesting.
I'm my head perked because that was I was just watching the
episode where someone sent a super chat in asking Mulder to
debate you.
You can see it in his face.
He's like no.
Oh fuck.
Oh fuck.
About about your
boss.
Clean your room.
You have a board.
What next to his bedside?
As you know a little bit of bed chess.
Well, I think it's something that you you pointed that
out instead of the massive upside-down pentagram.
Exactly.
Also the fact that his his wall has clearly been damaged by
something in some way.
That's the white spot.
That was Satan.
That was that was the spell.
Man that desk though.
It's like a flamethrower to that.
How do you even cleaner on the chessboard?
That's his lube.
Oh my that actually might be a lube.
I don't even know.
Oh, I don't know.
Anyway, for your
the weird stat you guys well, he was confused and may I just
say Celtic Phoenix like in the like in the setup looking
good.
Nice.
Nice.
You got the microphones all in place the whiteboard and
background for what I guess is notes or subscribers or
whatever.
We got the the sofa and then the the background thing looking
good.
Something written on the whiteboard.
No, it's like too low resolution to tell.
That's a shame.
Hope it says Haley fab.
Or big idiots.
It is fine.
He's like well, my animosity towards him is that he's like
a twat basket on Twitter.
Wow.
I would hate that way.
So not me.
I wasn't being a twat basket.
I wasn't assigning characteristics to people that I
couldn't in any way actually back up because he's a twat
basket.
Yeah, just for clarification.
I'm the twat basket and yet he said I have no charisma or
integrity or understanding of media analysis or argumentation
and I'm shallow trite and dishonest.
Thanks, bro.
Just to be clear, did you was that a reply to you in a way?
No, that came out of that.
I remember that's the first time I've ever heard of him and
I was like, okay, why does he hate me?
This happens so fucking much to me.
You tubers hate me.
And I'm like, oh, hey, hello.
I'm rolling.
What's up?
They're like fuck them all to piece of shit.
Terrible, horrible person.
You ruined media.
Do you know this?
No, honestly, you are a disgusting demon.
Also, yeah, I'm trying to balance the audio for you guys
and chat.
Batman is much louder than Celtic.
So I got back and forth and I'll try and make sure you
don't blow your ears out.
I apologize.
I'm really I'm just really glad that the left half of
each letter is orange.
Well, the right half of each letter is blue.
Not well, but but the elves look weird because they're
like 80% orange.
Yeah.
Fat man falling.
His content is just really like poorly.
Really?
Okay, that is until I saw his fucking Star Wars video man.
That's just like like how do you spend an hour like decrying
the concept of subjectivity?
Interesting discussion to have that you could go on for
days talking about that.
This isn't a very substantive anything actually the idea
of how you can actually view existence.
Yeah, that's that's an interesting conversation that
can go on for a little longer than an hour actually and
the statements you make we will never discover the truth
if there even is an end to that especially when that conversation
is used often to decry you specifically and this is a conversation
that's been going on for really long.
I wasn't just FYI because a lot of people see feel this way.
I didn't bring this up.
I wasn't the one who said hey, what about the idea of this?
Like no, no, I'm I'm actually it's actually came up ages
ago.
Like I'm talking you know, you got to have a lot of zeros
on top of a number than that many years.
Okay, like a lot of people been talking about this for a long
time.
I'm just I'm just one dude.
They're just saying like you didn't talk about this for like
an hour like oh you nailed it.
Destroyed the whole conversation.
He talks about it.
How do you talk about it for an hour is like well, I think
there's a lot to say in generally one might even make the
inference that intelligent people can draw a lot more blood
from that there stone.
Also, I find interesting because he does a channel reviewing
anime as far as I'm aware and I'm pretty sure he spent no
like I know this guy.
No, no way.
Not this not this guy.
By the way, it's small the guy with loads of tissues on his
desk.
So I have really long hair.
I haven't got a haircut in many years.
I have very long hair.
However, because I have long hair.
I go through great lengths to maintain it.
Well, I don't like it when people have long hair and it
looks like shit because then when I tell people I have long
hair, they're like, oh you look like that.
No look like you must look like one of these people was like
no, no, no, no, I I bait.
I have white person here.
I have to bathe it regularly and all that stuff.
I'd like to I'd like to point out as well.
Rags his room is I can already guarantee much cleaner than
this.
It literally is.
I'm looking around at shit everywhere.
Tissues.
I don't leave.
Yeah, I don't bother.
It's everywhere.
You need a slippery chessboard lane site.
Do you have your bedside chessboard Rags?
I have I have a little I have a bedside table, but there's
not a chessboard on it.
This is that well, a true intellectual would have a
play with.
Yeah, I guess it was and then you're casing for a fan, but
not the fan itself.
Well, no, it could be spinning.
Yeah, that looks like it could be the fan, right?
Yeah, it could be spinning.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Fat man falling.
That was an objectively inaccurate criticism.
I've wronged you also on the matter of subject hair.
Keep it kept and you know, subject here.
What happened to grooming?
How come that's just not a thing anymore?
It was there like a convention where people decided they
would just stop grooming their faces.
Somebody announced every convention ever grooming is the
big gay.
Someone announced it.
It was replaced with subjectivity.
There you go.
Yeah, everything's objective.
I don't have to take care of myself.
I look like a piece of shit.
No matter.
Yeah, because it's objectively wouldn't be anything anything
at all.
Yeah, don't worry about it.
Decrying the concept of subjectivity and then you're even
decry the subject.
I'm actually very in favor of subjectivity.
It's very important to me all the time.
The idea that I think feelings are bad or something.
No, it's very especially wet on the head and and set for
end gives like oh, yeah, objective objective wise.
But subjective was a we really love that movie.
It makes it makes things so easy to explain to someone.
They're like, oh you liked it, but you thought it was poorly
written.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, there we go.
That was easy to explain.
Wasn't it?
Well, remember a recent conversation.
I said conversation where I ranted at you specifically
about Steven Universe.
Yes.
And lots of the things I said were objective and then I said
I hate them.
I hate I hate why they why did they do this?
I don't know Jay.
It was all subjective because there is no no no because no
because why don't they fucked white diamond?
That sounds very sexual.
It's not like a stripper name.
That's why I said it sounds very sexual.
But yeah, okay, let's carry on.
You're like complaints about a movie.
You're like, I would have preferred if it was a different
movie.
Like, okay.
Yeah, that's all he says.
That's all you say.
That's all you say.
That's the entirety of your video.
If I say like I would prefer like I suggest a fix for a
plot hole.
That's me saying I prefer a different movie at that point.
I guess.
Okay.
Some movies.
I'd prefer a different movie.
Catmarble, The Last Jedi.
Yeah, the whole concept of the reroll thing.
I kind of like that you brought up like when you've watched
a movie is like would you want to reroll this keep it or
risk a worse one for a better one, etc.
Like I would reroll TFA in a heartbeat as well as TFA.
Absolutely.
Well, if you're all TFA, then I guess TLGA is good.
It just stays the same even though TFA is completely
different.
Well, it's okay because it's all subjective.
So it can stay the same.
Well, if you remember Quinton reviews our Lord and Savior
of a different universe.
He once said that it's only a sequel if you interpret it
that way.
That's insane.
Like that's actually an insane thing to say.
He said that though.
He's wonderful.
He said that in the oh shit.
When did he say that?
Was that the video?
Was that no, I think that was his video where he talks about
The Last Jedi where he says like the fan stuff and everything.
We haven't covered that on eFAB.
We've done it.
We did it on World's part.
We need to do that on eFAB.
We haven't.
We need to.
I can't believe it.
Yeah, well, we'll do that.
It's one of like the best quotes ever.
Anyway, moving on.
By the way, the way he quoted me just there saying that
oh, yeah, you just prefer a different movie.
Look at Celtic Phoenix's reaction.
He's like,
that's not really what he said.
Is that what he said?
Objectively bad that this movie didn't tell the story.
I wanted it to tell.
I honestly think you should do it.
He goes very in-depth about his process with writing and
it makes a lot of sense.
Get fucked.
Look at him awkwardly laughing like that's not what he's saying.
That's what's so crazy.
He's like the most obvious thing that you could probably take
away from you is that you draw the difference between objective
and subjective.
Like that's our big thing that they're not the same.
Yeah, this is the thing if you were to rename it if you go
more all you're talking about when you say objective is
consistency.
You're not talking about anything object.
I'd be like, okay, but my work still makes sense.
If you were to switch that one word then right.
Yes, it's just a word swap.
The concepts remain the same.
Like all of my work is still following all of those that
framework then so it's still of that it still is what it is.
Right.
There's just be like if you disagree with the way I've labeled
it that still does what I intended for it to do I guess more
to like that can be objective than just consistency though.
Like 15 year olds not crying.
I mean, yeah, we're not saying that that's all it is.
We're just yeah, I'm just suggesting that if their issue
is the the use of the word.
I'm like sure you can get over that and but instead they
write off everything I've done.
It's like cool.
But they hate you anyway though.
Which is why this is fascinating to keep an eye on the
guy who hates me versus the guy who's like, well, I don't
know if he how much he likes my work or not, but he seems
to be in favor of me.
Is it ironic that the guy who's defending you kind of looks
like Jack Saint?
I'm little I'm okay with it.
You know, he was kissed by fire, you know, and you get all
kinds of different personalities out of that ginger hair by
fire.
What they say.
He's fine.
When he's making like he's making an objective statement
and when he's or an objective opinion versus a subjective
opinion, he kind of delineates the objective opinion.
All right, Fat Man Falling, define opinion for me, buddy.
Do it.
Objective opinions are a thing.
Why do people think objective opinions aren't a thing?
Like this is an established thing.
Look, we have to go through this all the time.
Rags.
We've talked about this privately.
I know let me let me Google it just to to opinion.
It's just a judgment.
So this is something that's true.
Then it's objective.
This isn't even like a hidden thing.
This is a clearly defined thing.
It's like people saying that Saturn isn't real.
It's like I don't understand.
There's something wrong.
No, it's not my go to for something wrong.
It's my go.
It was my momentary go to for something that exists that
people just don't they just act like it's not a thing that
people who believe that Saturn isn't real.
Probably no, I said it's like saying that well, first off.
Yes, there are people who don't think Saturn's real.
There are people who deny that space exists.
Yeah, people who deny that space exists, but the the whole
point of what I'm saying is that this is you have subjective
opinions which exist.
They are a thing.
They're clearly defined.
This is easily Googleable stuff and people hear that and
they're just like they're they're dumbstruck and they
just logical step, right?
I feel like he'd be laughing his ass off.
He's giggling to himself like objective is so stupid.
I'm like, okay, fine.
I'm going to find opinion.
He's probably he's two of one of two options.
One laughs at us again because everyone knows the definition
of opinion.
There's no need for him to say it.
We have to keep pushing him or he says it's your personal
take on a thing.
It's your it's your feelings on what it is.
It's like nope.
But even if it's your feelings and what it is and if you're
well, if your feelings are that like oh that my desk is made
of glass.
That's objective.
Even if I feel it to be it wouldn't be defined that way.
However, you can make a subjective judgment, right?
Like that's fine.
And what determines whether or not a judgment is subjective
object is usually going to be the content of it and what
the topic is.
Yeah, an opinion.
I mean even in the death, I think in the definition of opinion
when we talked about it, it was like it doesn't necessarily
have to be based on like what's true or what is a fact it
can it might not be but it can it's it's in fact, it's kind
of independent of it either way.
It's still an opinion.
Couldn't be so controversial and yet it is it's kind of
seems like people just don't think about it.
That's the thing.
They don't think about it.
So when they hear it to them, it just seems otherworldly just
drop.
I think I think everything would get better if we drop the
word opinion.
Nobody can use it anymore.
We have to use something else in order to translate what
we're saying to each other.
Yes, you have to when you have to use a new word for that
concept.
Well, we would start saying pretty much is just judgment.
Judgment is the easy one to go for and then they would be
saying your feelings on something.
We'd be like, nope, not talking about feelings.
Nope.
If you substitute the word opinion with judgment, everyone
immediately understands what you mean.
And I like to think they would but then they might say that
your subjective judgment.
No, because then they'll agree with that long man and then
they'll find some bullshit reason.
Just put the definition, just define opinion at the start
of all of your videos.
Yeah, they see that as stupid.
Make Mahler an intro that has the definition.
They think that's stupid.
They're like, of course, everyone knows what opinion
means and they're like fucking not exactly.
They think that we're the stupid ones who've decided that
opinion means something else.
Just right did the same thing.
Joseph Anderson did the same thing.
Joseph Anderson searched for definitions of opinion that
involve like the specifics of it has to be about your feelings
and he's like see and he pulled it from a site that has a
definition for objective opinion.
That was the funny part.
Joseph Anderson is a funny guy, but yeah, this is the thing.
The best they can do is bitch and moan about how it's their
definition that should be adopted.
But this is the thing.
We're just running from what's the fact and feeling it doesn't
go fact and opinion.
People often say fact and opinion is like fact and feeling
is the two opinion can be both or either.
What's your opinion on how good TLJ looks like aesthetically
like I like it.
I understand that it's really technically competent, but I
just don't like the way it looks.
Let's see what I mean though like all the statements we just
made so rag saying it looks expensive.
He could probably develop that you could actually give
references for why that's the case me saying I like it.
I don't have to go any further than that.
Actually like it's pleasing to my eye and then saying I actually
don't like it.
You'd be like again what we said was subjective or rag said
is up for debate depending on how he qualifies.
This is what makes conversation interesting by the way instead
of just going.
Oh you like it.
Okay.
Bye.
That was a great conversation.
Bye.
No, we wouldn't want to go too long.
We're up to two hours already.
We've like accomplished nothing in this stream.
We did we didn't sort out some ladders.
So hang on.
Yeah, the important about a stupid gay-ass cactus farm.
Cinema sins announces sin week a cinema sins fan event sin
weeks and sin.
Oh, is that like the opposite of lint?
Oh my god.
Yeah, everyone.
You go nuts with a particular vice.
You're like, oh, yes.
Oh, lust, lust, lust, lust, lust.
I call us.
Well, the problem is rags.
What if it's a matter of like people like fat bad for like
other ones who are like, yeah, I'm up for that too rags.
Everyone has to pick a deadly thing now.
Well, obviously for mauler.
It's pride.
Because he's evil.
What's what's like pride taken to the nth degree?
Like what would I be doing?
God narcissism.
Pride.
No, like in the form of actions like what do you think what
you picture I'd be doing if I was taking pride to the worst
like as a youtuber, but I'd like release a video saying
how good I am or something to me.
Talk about fallout.
I would say that we talk about fallout every day the most
people listen to in their entire life.
Oh god, I'd make statements like that one degree.
Yeah, no, but it's still pretty fucking terrible to YouTube.
Yeah, yeah, I think so.
I think we can go further.
I would probably release a video reviewing my own work and
saying it's perfect or something like that.
Yeah.
The most extreme form of pride.
I'm not sure it had.
Oh, yeah.
I just meant in within the realm of me as a youtuber.
Like what would what would the action I take be?
Yeah, I'd have to I'd probably have to think about it.
Interesting though.
Yeah, anyway.
Because I think it's a weird statement, but it's an opinion
that he tries to base upon factual information as opposed
to personal.
Yeah, look at his mind go.
That's I think that's if you're basing it if you're not basing
an opinion on something finish your thought finish your thought
fat man carry that forwards.
Please continue the room is 30 degrees Celsius.
However, his his thermometer is broken and he is unaware of
that fact.
So his opinion well factually true by by every bite by his
I would correct him on factually true and change it to objective.
I didn't have any so this is the thing I've talked about before.
It's just an easy analogy to try and help people understand
where I'm getting out where because they would question.
How do you get an objective opinion that could be non factual
or inaccurate?
Yeah, the the analogy would be that it's objectively true
that the thermometers something incorrect.
Yeah, and the reason why we have talked about this is because
some people will say something like Bucky was brainwashed in
Civil War and if if Steve had only told Iron Man that I'm
I wouldn't attack him and it's like they may not have any
feelings in the game about this.
They just didn't remember the scene in which that happened
those things happen.
And so you show them and you go yeah, you were being fine.
Like I don't think you had any bias in in making you come
up with these statements.
You just had a lack of information.
So that's where it's applicable in media.
But then some people might be like struggling to understand
it.
So I say like you have a thermometer.
It's displaying a number you read it out when someone asks
you what the temperature of the room is and it turns out it
was broken on a way to you.
And so they say like wow, you were being subjective.
It's like that doesn't make sense.
I don't have any investment in whether or not the thermometer
reads whatever number.
I just read the number.
Yes, you can mistakenly believe that the thermometer is telling
you the accurate temperature when really you're just taking
the reading incorrect or not.
You are still using that to objectively base your opinion.
I think that makes sense.
Let's see how he reacts to it.
College.
Oh, sorry.
While his opinion while objective is factually false.
He is making an opinion.
This is the guy this this whole facepalm out of the camera thing.
I think this is like a coping mechanism for a lot of people.
Well, I mean like they use it to almost like hide there and
inability to there's a teat down there that he is suffering on.
I don't know if I've mentioned this yet, but he's making a video
on me apparently by the way fat man for me.
Oh, it's going to take me down boys.
I'm ready.
I am ready.
Does this God?
I have to do it again person not understand what the word guess
means.
What does guess have to do with opinion?
So he's suggesting that if the thermometer was broken and I
read out the number, I wouldn't have been creating an objective
and opinion.
I would have been guessing.
What?
No, I don't understand.
This seems like a non-sacrilege.
I was like, there's no guessing involved.
I read the number.
Yeah, if it was me here, I would have stopped him right there.
I was like, no, no, no, no, continue because you're starting off
with a faulty premise and I value time to some degree.
So what what where are you coming from with this guess stuff?
Also, what's that thing behind Celtic?
It looks like it does sound canceling and stuff behind who?
I think that's the self wardrobe behind Celtic that I've heard
that pronunciation.
That's okay.
Celtic Phoenix Celtic Celtic and Celtic of both words.
So yeah, the cool guy.
The cool guy.
What's the thing behind here?
I call him Phoenix.
Call him Phoenix.
There you go.
Got it.
Yeah, I don't think it's noise canceling.
I think it might just be one of those screens for like you
can put them up and move them around when you like changing
and stuff the black one again.
I bet it I bet it helps enough.
I'm just trying.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure it does.
I imagine there might be something horrifically awful behind
it and he's covered it up.
Maybe maybe maybe see just does the guy who looks like I'm
actually curious, but are those screens that maybe you could
reposition?
I don't know.
I don't even know what those are.
I think they are.
That's the guy at the bottom said anything yet.
Not know yet.
Looks like you might have watch.
Yeah, I'm not sure.
It's very interesting.
Does this person not understand what the word guess means?
I'm nervous after non sequitur.
A guess isn't an opinion.
I mean a lot of judgments are made without full information.
So you could argue that they're not definitive and therefore
partially I guess.
Pretty sure if you base your information like you base a
judgment on a guess that isn't.
Yeah, that's almost more an opinion than not.
One would say that a guess is also if you're basing if you're
misinformed, that's not a guess.
That's you being misinformed.
Yeah, like, you know, I can trust rags 100% if he tells me
like Jay fucking behind your back said a bunch of shit and
then I like challenge Joan and he's like, oh, he lied.
I'd be like and then Jay's like, so you guessed that I said
that I'd be like, I mean,
like giving him correct information and isn't something
I would equate to a lie.
Anyway, it's a weird way to to frame this.
If you are unaware that it's broken, then you would think
that it's going to be the temperature set on this mind
for unless it is a radically different.
Yeah, look at the guy.
He's like consumed.
He's like, he's actually complicated.
Like why are you reacting this way fat man?
Yeah, it's not actually all that complicated.
It's just not probably not something you just think about
often.
It doesn't exactly come up in conversation.
That awkward as fuck laugh.
Look at that again.
The awkward nervous.
Yeah, the awkward nervous.
Well, she was crashing around him.
It's how you cut.
His face was frozen and his eyes were staring forward.
It's like the most forced laugh I've ever seen.
It's like that's not a real laugh at all deflect.
The uncertainty of it.
That's funny as hell.
Is he like I'm probably doing this service.
No, you're not man.
You're doing okay Phoenix.
You're doing okay.
Yeah, I appreciate it.
It's not that bad.
Yeah, like the analogy I the way you're failing isn't
necessarily your fault.
It's you have to translate it to this man who's not really
hearing what you're saying is what my take would be which
we've struggled with the many guests.
We've had me and rag spend like hours trying to break down
what we're saying to them.
We eventually just have to read we have to have them agree
to redefine ways to read.
You have to read them.
So don't worry.
Don't worry.
Honestly, I think because like I see I could never tell if
he's joking.
Why would you assume he's honestly like I hope he's joking
a lot of the time but like in his like like tweets back
and forth with a bomber guy.
He's like said motherfuck.
It's H bombing.
I said to me that what is it the whole thing about the hit
box is being fucked in DS to wasn't an error or wasn't a
mistake.
I kind of what we're to use but he was trying to like move
around the idea that they were terrible and he didn't mention
them in his video whatsoever even though a lot of people
who play DS to will happily mention them and I remember
being like you can't like you can't be serious like the hit
boxes are so fucking terrible.
You have to at least admit that those are bad and he was
just like not necessarily because everything's subjective
but the hitbox is only bad if you feel it's bad like Jesus
Christ, but I like something it was like a flaw but it wasn't
an error or something.
Yeah, he used to live it on purpose.
I can't I didn't fuck up on purpose.
I can't remember the specifics but the idea that I was the
clown in that conversation like really.
H bomber guy does some things like oh, it's my opinion.
I'm good tips with H bomber guy as far as I can tell I have
awesome DMS every once in a while.
After his new video the scanlines one.
I actually thought I was a really awesome video and I sent
him a sin that I really liked it and the Blade Runner thing
with the with the unicorn as something that once they added
the dream sequence in I felt that it really boosted the film
and the I kind of like that he went over that and then yeah,
he sent me a few messages back talking about some of the bits
he cut out and everything and I was like, it's weird.
I'm like, am I on good terms with you or not?
Fight him on effect.
I don't think you ever want to come on you.
I'd be lucky to get that the kind you know,
the crowd he hangs out with hang him from the rafters
if he showed up here.
No, no, no, no, no.
Yeah, he's still he'd still be a good look.
Do you just see what happened to Contra points?
I didn't see what happened to her crazy.
Contra points has been removed from the left.
What happened?
She she said she said a completely reasonable thing that
I guess to try and summarize it this is again,
I'm paraphrasing and I may have gotten some of this wrong,
but it's just for so people have some context from what
I understood.
She was saying that what she doesn't like about being
with them very let's just call them a woke crowd is that
when when they see her arrive in a group,
they'll they'll want to make a point to everybody say their
their pronouns once they see her and conversely when she's
with a group of people who aren't woke who don't care about
any of that stuff.
They don't and they'll still refer to her as ma'am and you
know, she and stuff like that.
And so she was saying almost ironically that she proofed
she prefers not having to bring it on like to arrive in a
group and then have them all go.
Okay pronouns time.
You know, I mean like she'd rather it be natural living
like a yeah, she said a completely normal thing which
means that the left ate her up.
Yeah, I read that I found it interesting.
I said this tracks before I was like this really interesting
as a sort of commentary on almost like the unexpected acceptance
or at least you could call it that from their point of view
and it's unfortunate because it's it's pissed people off
who considered her on their team.
If you will, apparently, it's very much upset non binaries
because non binaries of people who very much require pronouns
to be stated and so her saying that is is too not binary
then state your fucking pronouns.
Yeah, but they're saying that her her story there as a content
creator and influencer is damaging to non binaries.
I think that was their argument.
These are the people who think that Trump is trying to kill
trans people.
I don't know what Trump is trying to do, but I'm pretty sure
it's not that he's trying to build a wall and it's going to
be fucking good.
Trump did that it would be by accident.
But yeah, the wall fell over and landed on a trans person
trying to cross the border illegally through the desert.
What are the bricks full of like how?
Trump meant to do that.
It was the 40 check.
Yeah, point being though, if H-bomb a guy did come on you
have and have a good time.
It wouldn't look good for him.
I don't think but that's not a political statement though.
Coming on.
They think we are not.
Oh Jay, people think everything is political.
There's no such thing as a non political thing.
They he's desperate to know my politics because they want
to be able to throw me out the window.
If you know what I mean?
And so the what I always see said online is he hangs out
with rags who often hangs out with Sargon.
Therefore, that's his politics.
Therefore.
Yeah, we're indistinguishable from one another.
We never have any we're here.
We're here reflect like respecting the idea that you can
you know, like respecting eight trans persons pronouns and
all of that shit and having just like a like a well,
they yeah, they won't accept the idea that you can that you
can do that and you can choose what pronouns you feel
comfortable with and they want to know, but are you still
a bad though?
Do you believe in Nazi as a person who believes in trans
rights?
You know,
yeah, these people are nuts.
Well, I love it.
If he came on though, I would love to have a conversation
about our analysis stuff.
I just don't I think the best I'll ever get is a like a
discord call with him, which I'd be cool with.
I don't think you'd ever come on eFAB though.
It makes you wonder like with ContraPoints and it's weird
too, because when I made an FA account, I got and I still
do get regular messages from people who are like furries
and in the furry fandom and stuff who say yeah, I just can't
talk about politics because of how insane people are and
what they'll do to me and they won't do they won't they
won't do work for me and calm out all the time.
I'll be Rebecca cancel culture.
People can't come and people can't talk about politics in
the furry fandom.
Correct.
Anyway, Tim, Tim Poole made a video like within the week
about how there is a poll and 73% of students who or self
identified Republicans said that they withheld giving their
political opinions for fear that there would be academic
backlash against them by like staff and teachers and they
would hurt their grades.
Like people don't want to this is why when Trump was elected
people like what what?
Yeah, because people don't want to say that shit in public
because you people treat us like we're second-class citizens
or that we're freaks or weirdos or hateful monsters.
But are you saying that you're Republican regs?
I thought you said that you are left.
Have you said I'm not left.
I thought you said you were left.
What did you say?
Wolf is the one who was left.
I would say I'm left as well.
Yeah, I'd say socially.
I'm pretty I'm pretty moderate generally, but there are
some things I don't even know if you could depends on
how you define far right.
Yeah, this is super complicated and I'm pretty pretty clearly
defined views on like immigration and stuff, but I'm very
egalitarian and very pro meritocracy and hang on you
disagree with me on issues.
I'm not.
Well, I was gonna say as well.
It's just funny you said about the whole like what they'll
do with the second-class citizen thing.
It's like we literally had Quinton being like do not humanize
Ben Shapiro.
Stop it's dangerous.
Fuck Ben Shapiro is a human.
He's also the thing you realize which is Quinton wishes to
dehumanize the Jews.
Quinton stop stop it quickly.
You're becoming something you wish to destroy.
Anyway back to this wonderful video.
We're to take it so far off track what like said like,
Oh, it's my opinion that fire burns flesh and I'm like,
what it is your fire burns flesh.
Yeah.
What's wrong with that?
So if we again replace opinion with judgment is my judgment
that fire burns flesh.
Yeah, what's wrong with that burning flesh?
Why is the pentagram man?
Sorry about burning flesh.
That's the analogy he goes to.
I don't know.
It's weird.
But yeah, it is.
It is my opinion my eye rags.
It is my opinion that fire burns flesh.
This also is what you might consider an objective opinion
because it's based off of the facts of reality.
Yeah, you don't actually have an investment in this personally.
You weren't burned as a child.
Well, I don't want to get seen as flesh burn.
Well, my point my point is like how would this become subjective
and it's like if you said something like I don't know water
burns you and it turns out that you had water spill on you
that was really hot when you were younger and you've always
been afraid of water because it'll burn you and you'd be
like rags is not the case.
Yeah, you'd be like water can scald you.
Yeah, sure.
But water was acid and you're like, yeah, that's you.
Like there's a lot of ways that your judgment can be skewed
and that's a part of my goal on my channel is to find those
biases and get rid of them as best you can.
Yeah, like it's just the concept that you're using.
You're just maybe saying instead of fire or water burns water
scalds water blisters.
I was referring to the fact that if you said water bins as
a whole it's like well water can water can reach a high
point. There's lots of other things.
I don't know man again.
I would like him to repeat all of this without about objective
opinions is that if you don't know we can test it and find
out.
Yeah.
Again, I just I'd like him to do all of this without being
allowed to use the word opinion and just notify me whenever
he uses the replacement word.
So I know what he's actually saying because it's just like
a word to hide behind.
I genuinely can't wait for his video.
I know it's going to be terrible.
It's going to be so terrible.
We love it.
Like he's yeah, like yeah, he's a silly man.
He's a silly guy.
Damn.
Okay.
Wow.
You got your man.
Yeah, you fucked now beat the fuck out.
Yeah, doesn't present himself as a silly guy.
Thank you.
Okay, okay.
At least that's an acknowledgement from him that I present
myself in a non-silly way.
All right, you can say the same thing about Jeremy Clarkson.
I don't really know what to make of that exactly.
Well, let me say in reverse fat man.
You are a silly guy who does present himself in a silly way
but doesn't think you're silly.
Yeah, which is the worst case scenario, basically.
That is an odd that is an odd criticism.
I give it about going back by that.
I give it about 50% that there is at least some calm on that
chessboard.
Don't make me think about that.
I think that you are I I don't know if I'd say more or less
50%
I give it 50%
I if I had to if I had to over under you, I think I'd go
over.
Is that your is that your objective judgment or your
subjective judgment?
That is a that is a pure guess.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, it's a process on the whole.
Well, you're talking you're talking about his is not as
unbridled rages at all.
You're not talking about those at all, right?
No, no, no, I'm I'm talking about all he knows to make
a distinction between your ages and Twitter persona.
But he has long.
Yeah, he's talking about my Twitter persona.
There's no totally watched.
No, I have a Twitter persona.
I wasn't unaware.
I don't know just what he's just read your tweets and
that's his job.
Well, but he's way worse on Twitter than I am.
How can he how is this fair?
Well, he
I'm gonna guess it's Trump.
Yeah, no, like I don't I don't really care about his his
content besides the ones that don't care about his content.
Judge Twitter Twitter thingies and don't watch the content
but like and the length rags doesn't exist.
Basket or whatever the fuck he said.
Okay.
I've seen like oh, no, he's tweets about my little pony.
Oh, no, he doesn't I guarantee you he spent he spent more
than an hour on it meaning that he finds my little pony
more worthy of discussion than the concept of subjectivity.
I think yeah, I think I'm with you on the 70.
I'm going to increase my 10 to 10.
Can we not reach a hundred?
Can we not just I mean like it's a it like it's an objective
guarantee know that it's trying to think those aren't dents
in his wall.
Oh, no, oh, no, how did he draw that pentagram?
That is that is very metal.
Okay, full battle.
How can you say that?
Dare you?
Oh, no, cross the line.
Yeah, like I don't I don't really care about his his content
besides the ones that I've seen like okay, like what kind
of statement is that I don't care about the his content outside
of the ones I've seen well, that's oddly phrase naturally
is another one.
Maybe he's seen all of it.
How do you care about the ones you haven't you're unaware
of like how's that work?
Talking to him like I mean trying to like objectively quantify
like artistic quality is like
ridiculous.
Why oh, he got you know, he said it's ridiculous.
Get fucked.
Game over buddy.
I he disagrees with like he heavily disagrees with that.
Kimberly and let him know that's that's where I think you
guys have interesting debate because do you believe there's
an objective?
No, because there's no there's no debate to you're asserting
it, but that's not an argument just to be clear.
Would you happily debate this man?
Oh, sure.
You can jump on a fab whenever he wants to be a hilarious
disaster on a fab dude.
He's gonna get so he's gonna get stunned immediately because
we'll just ask for definitions and he's fucked.
Yeah, once you once you make him think about it like really
just past that first immediate step, then it just crumbles
definition silly a guy I don't agree with we did it with
with DX and snowman gaming didn't we he was almost a similar
conversation.
They both came in like no and then we were like, okay terms
definitions conclusions and then they were like, okay,
okay, I can kind of see okay.
I mean it was DX who agreed with our concept.
He just didn't want to use the words that we use.
He also didn't like the DX as a guy who came in talked to
us against the wishes of just right.
I know that but I don't know.
Well, he's a guy who made the video where he was talking
about buzzwords and video essays in the first one.
He said it was objective and that you can't be objective
and then we were like we challenge you on such things.
This is not ringing any bells.
I'm just gonna go don't you watch all of efap back-to-back
you're a manager.
Yeah, well, you're honorary manager.
Maybe regs.
I've had three too many beers.
That's a reference.
How many beers is that how many beers I've had three beers
currently?
Well, I'm still on one but I've got I've got a long day ahead
of me still I got because I got to leave in about an hour
and a half.
So I don't want to over imbibe.
Well, at least we'll get through this video by then.
Maybe yeah boy have if you think there are objective standards
of quality quality.
What do you think quality means?
Yeah.
Mmm.
Okay, how do you think things exist that you can literally
make whenever you please this happens with every single fucking
word they use right so quality.
What is the majority of people think it means and a lot of
people will tell you it's like how much you like a thing.
It's like no, it means the degree to which a standard is satisfied
and that can be how much you like a thing.
It can also be how much a thing is coherent or how much how
fucking structurally sound of building is like there's so many
different ways quality is almost just dependent on the context
in which you're using the word.
I just like that.
You can just gunfire the definition by now.
Well, yes, because they never think about definitions and
we just kind of like have to what we base our work on.
This is why we know them.
It was assuming to is that we know these definitions, but
our arguments do not hinge upon them.
They're yeah, and I'm willing to drive.
I'm also willing to accept that if you said that's not the only
definition or something.
I'd be like, okay, fine.
Let's explore the word to use for this conversation.
Yeah, that's all we have to do.
It's that something there are objective standards of quality.
You're just incorrect good argument explain explain.
Am I going we're going in and in Raymond's like when we light
up Raymond lights up to their attempt at stopping him from
speaking.
Are you echoing?
I think so.
Not anymore.
No, it's not anymore.
Okay.
Oh, no, there's there it is.
Wait, listen.
How I'm going to talk and like going to keep talking, but
see how Raymond's is still on.
No, you hear me.
I don't know when this gets fixed.
Hello.
What I hear myself.
I hope it's the rest of the video.
He's going to say it's absurd.
It's ridiculous.
Okay.
Meanwhile, commentary has been fully completely substantive about
concepts and the words we use and all that stuff.
And so this will be the perfect clip to say molar is vain, right?
But some people aren't equipped to have conversations like this
because they'll be like define the terms.
We already all know the terms.
It's like no the fact you've assumed that means this is a very
difficult conversation.
Then it will be easy for you to just take the 10 seconds and tell
us just to make sure.
And like just the concept if you've already buried yourself in
the idea that there's just no chance that what me and rags have
said is even slightly reasonable.
What the hell are we supposed to do with you?
So go great.
Thanks.
But you would even hear us out.
Cool.
And you can clearly tell he hasn't bothered to understand how I
actually explain it.
The Phoenix guy has that's why he wants to bring this up because
he's like I find it interesting.
I'd like you to respond to it.
He's like, that's ridiculous.
So dumb.
I mean, come on guys.
I mean like come on.
Nailed it.
That's getting the information from because I'm wearing headphones.
Maybe your headphones are loud.
Are your headphones really loud?
Can't do this yourself.
Hello.
Yeah, I didn't do it that time.
I think your headphones are just really loud.
That's just your opinion.
This is why I always have my headphones like turned down very.
Yeah, that guy knows us.
So yeah, media, awkwardy bizarre.
Yeah, that are my mic.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Anyway, I honestly think that but okay.
Okay, you asked what makes Ruby garbage and it's my opinion on
what I value.
There are people for what you find a different thing your
opinion on what you value you can judge things.
Objectively crazy, isn't it?
This is the thing for all we know.
He has like an amazing breakdown of Ruby or whatever the hell
it is and he defines in the video that he's only going from
what he likes or something.
I remember this like people said about just writes Hobbit
videos, right?
Like he does a really great breakdown, but then he he will
say about his own work.
It's all subjective and it's like no, why would you devalue
your stuff so much by saying that you can tell by what someone
is saying whether or not it's objective.
But the other other other issue with just hit is now defined
value and is it you literally talking about what you personally
like that's what value means to you then?
Yeah, that's not what we're talking about when we say
objective.
And it's like you go around in circles with all these words
and you have to define all of them and prevent them from
being like escape hatches sort of thing for the conversation.
It's like value is subjective by you're like no, no, no come
back come back.
We're not talking about that.
Tons of people.
I think one of them is in this very call that like Ruby a
lot and it's good to them.
You're allowed to like shit.
It's not like we have to value different things.
So let's say if the show is good at one thing and bad at
another thing, maybe even objectively someone might want
some one person might like the fact that show because they
value the one thing might dislike it because they value
the other one.
How about you take you you're not safe if you value if you
value visuals, you might like you throw in season eight
because it looks glorious.
Okay, okay.
I'm I'm judging that.
Okay.
Shadows aside.
Boost that brightness.
It looks good on the clips.
I've seen of your video where I'm because I've not actually
watched it.
I'm just like judging this on the clips of your video.
I'm where there's a few shots in the episode that are
absolutely gorgeous and I would have posters of them made
if I could just casually.
Oh, that's a fake city in the background.
It doesn't really like it's there.
Would you consider cinematography as visuals?
Yes, dependable.
I just asked what you mean by visuals.
I guess then it's like anything you can see it's like
well, I guess yes, then again, if it's almost cinematography
usually talk about composition, right?
I guess or framing visual.
Yeah, no, I think it's interesting to sort of see how you
would separate or combine the terms or subset them.
I guess because we value different things.
We sure do.
You see, I think so he brought up.
That was a because he brought up the everything is objective
arguments like they hate that argument, but I think you're
coming from a because oh shit.
I have to turn him down again.
Look where you paused it.
Jesus.
What is?
What is our true?
Everything is subjective.
All right.
So we hate the everything is subjective argument because
it's true.
2 plus 4 wait objectively true.
Subjectively true surely everything is objective except
the stuff that's not guys falls apart the second you think
about it.
Let's say it's a simple as it's an objective fact that 2
plus 2 equals 4.
Well, if everything is subjective, what the fuck is the
point in the word objective?
Is it does it only exist to say nothing is this?
It's like it's a fantasy word.
It isn't even real.
Let's see what science is.
Well, yeah, it's like if you actually think that literally
everything is subjective, then objectivity refers to a
fantasy concept.
Well, there are plenty of words that do that.
It's usually you talk about like fiction.
Yeah, it was asking Jane all concepts like if Jay said is
this things are referred to that you talk about like if
someone says Mordor.
It's like, of course, that's referring to something that's
not actually real.
Well, I think of an edgy thing to say as a joke like oh that
thing's not Holocaust like even even like a hello YouTube
senses.
I am speaking in a hypothetical if the Holocaust not happened
worth.
Yeah.
Yes.
We're talking about like Holocaust like then if that if
that did not happen, then it would still be possible for it
to happen.
So that's not the same thing.
Not necessarily.
Why wouldn't it be possible?
So if objectivity is not possible, you're saying that it
would be possible is like we don't know necessarily if it
would be possible.
The Holocaust you can kill a load of people that you can
commit a genocide that's that's possible.
Oh, that's different than the Holocaust Holocaust isn't
just a Holocaust though.
That's that's a word that means a thing, right?
It's just like a genocide is not I'd want you to know that
a bit more.
It's not a word for genocide that kind of refers to what
people use that they specifically are referring to like
the Jewish one in the 40s.
Yeah, that's right.
That's the most famous one, but yeah, that's why that's
why when everyone says you're saying you wouldn't be able
to commit a genocide in the 40s now because we're no longer
in the 40s.
No, no, no.
I'm saying I'm saying that you don't you it gets a little
philosophical.
It's like when people say that it's possible.
God exists and they have and we don't know if that's even
possible for it to happen.
See what I'm getting at.
Couldn't you say that it is still possible that God exists
though?
I wouldn't say that because I don't know.
You don't know if it's possible.
You don't know if it's possible.
Great.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
Yeah, you don't know when people assert that it's possible
as like they like how have you determined that you don't
well, it's possible within the realms of what you know,
you know, no, no, no, no, no, no, right.
Okay, so is okay.
So say you've got a box, right?
And like you don't know what's in that box.
So someone asks you is it possible that you know, there's
a finger in that box.
As far as you're concerned.
Yeah, that's possible, but you don't know.
Sure, but I would say that I got is it's generally defined
as a bit more complicated than that.
Rags would probably say that we've got precedent like we
know that it's very possible for a finger to be chopped
off in place in the box and space and time and what fingers
are in box and volume does God break the universal rules
we currently have is like in a way I suppose but asserting
that it is definitely possible that an entity like God
could exist is something that was defined.
All right, define your terms to find God if you want if you
want to define God as an omnipotent.
Oh, we're just right there omnipotent.
I don't think that it is possible to be an omnipotent
entity because that is logically contrary.
So omnipotent is like objective.
They're all knowing I forget which ones it means.
That's omniscient omniscient is omniscient is only powerful.
Is it yes can do everything and what would you be the way
you'd explain that that's like paradoxical.
Can God create a rock so heavy he can't lift it right
right right but but that's not paradoxical though.
Yes, it is.
You can't be omnipotent.
So yeah, if he's got the ability to create everything to
maximum then he should how can you like it?
Can he create something that he has?
So yeah, those two things are dichotomous.
I can't think that's just equivalent to saying that's
just equivalent to saying like oh the statement is a lie.
That doesn't make sense.
Therefore give it on one hand.
He can live to action.
So just to explain on one hand, he is powerful enough to
lift it and therefore he could not actually create something
he couldn't lift.
So he's not he could make himself he could if he's omnipotent
he could remove that power to lift the thing.
But then he wouldn't have the power to make the rock know
because he could return that power to himself.
So okay.
So what all you're doing is you're just kicking the can
down the road by saying that once he removes his power
then he wouldn't be powerful enough to make a rock so that
he couldn't lift it.
Shut up.
The whole point is that
conversation.
Stop being silly.
All I was just about to do is stay case in Minecraft.
It just started off as be saying that people when people
assert things are possible.
Don't just buy it.
Because that argument happens with the theism debates.
Omnipotence is a great example to use.
That's why a lot of modern apologetics uses maximal
really interesting to find anything for that because it's
like if you can just literally decide that matter is anything
like, you know, you can make any decision and it just happens.
You know what matter isn't anything we can like to we have
definitions of matter and but you can just you can just
decide something and it happens.
That's how it works, right?
I would like to find that as omnipotent even though like
technically you can't microwave a burrito so hot that you
can't eat it.
Yeah, so that that's yeah, it's yeah, the whole point of
omnipotence is that it breaks down as being logically.
Well, yeah, it depends how you define being able to do anything.
That's omnipotence.
That's the word on your sentence.
Can you do that's what it means ever?
Yeah, but it depends how you define anything.
So can you do something on me?
That's the Omni and omnipotence if you can do anything.
Can you can you do something that means that you can't do
something you can't lot you can't do everything because
every dichotomous.
Yes, that's the Boulder analogy.
You can't do both.
You can't have both of those properties.
You can't both have the property of being able to create
something so heavy you can't lift it and also being strong
enough that you can lift it.
Exactly.
Yeah, but that's dichotomous things.
That's why it's like the go-to example.
Yeah, but when you're defining something is like the only
reason they can't do that is because you're defining within
the realms of something they can't do which is nothing.
So it's essentially can you create something more powerful
than literal power?
No.
Say it one more time.
I don't say it one more time.
Okay, so if you if look okay, so if you literally have all
power like you control literally everything in every aspect
then it is impossible for something to be more powerful.
No, that it's not it's not a relative statement being more
powerful than something else doesn't have anything to do
with omnipotence.
No, but if you okay.
So if you create a rock so heavy that you can't lift it despite
the fact that you are omnipotent we're going to have to stop
there.
We have to stop at that sentence because that doesn't make
any logical sense.
I forgot what I said.
Well, if you say that if you are omnipotent and you create a
rock so heavy, you can't lift it is like well, it stops there
because that sentence is that's what I'm saying.
Yeah, it's not a valid sentence.
That's why people use that as an example, you can't create
something you can't create something that is so powerful
that it literally goes beyond literally infinite power.
Yeah, you can't do that.
You it's like it's like saying infinite doesn't exist because
there's nothing like more than infinite.
Well, infinite is more conceptual.
It's it's it's it is it is conceptual.
It's impossible like for it to happen in real life, but
conceptually.
Yeah, that's that's omnipotence like an omnipotence is a concept.
It can't actually be a property that exists because it's
logically country.
Yeah, and so we actually that's that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's why modern apologetics.
I was going to say in Finister Rags as well.
This is not something they would have thought of because they
are happy to say you can do everything he wants.
He's super powerful.
It's just done done and dusty.
Oh, yeah.
When I was when I was a Christian and people asked that question
we treated it like a joke and we stopped thinking about it.
Like there was there was never any actual exploration into
that concept.
And I think I love his listening to by the way, because it
just it just breaks down.
That's why modern apologetics says he can do everything that
is logically possible to be done.
So God cannot create a married bachelor is another example
because it's not logically possible.
He is as he has as powerful as any agent can possibly be is
what they change the meanings of those words to make it possible.
Well words are words don't have meanings.
They have shared understandings.
So that wouldn't matter.
Anyway, quiet.
Are we talking?
Oh, don't we have a Hello, Greedy, Greedy, Greedy, Greedy?
No, not Hello, Greedy, Fat Man.
No, we're done.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
We went on a tangent.
So I assumed we were busy.
It can go beyond Greedy.
I was pouring myself another drink.
Sorry.
I've been enjoying this.
What are you all drinking?
I am drinking tea.
Unsweet and ice cold.
I thought you said you have alcohol to get alcohol in it.
I'm not I'm dude.
I'm not a tea purist.
I actually don't care if you drink iced tea.
It's okay.
Oh, what alcohol did you drink rags?
I had a delicious red apple ale.
I have a Mike's right now.
I can't really get into the head.
I'm drinking by these.
What's the last part of what you said?
Yes, I just said it's too early in the day to be drinking too much of the heavy stuff
right now.
So I'm just have a mic.
No such thing.
Yeah, I don't.
Yeah, this stuff isn't heavy.
I like the taste.
I'm big into drinking for taste because I don't want to drink shit.
Yeah, absolutely.
I totally agree with you.
Oh, yeah, like I don't drink liquor really.
I've got I'm very very very particular about the liquor.
I drink same thing with wine.
I just if it tastes bad.
I'm like fuck it.
What's the point?
I like a lot of liquor but people know that already.
I like rum because to me it's like the least offensive of the alcohol, especially when
you mix it with something.
How can you how can you think that about rum like the strongest tastes?
You can well that well, that's why I said I like it.
I mean, I'm pretty sure that's I don't yeah, I like rum, but I wouldn't call it offensive.
Yeah, I wouldn't I would say I don't even know what I would maybe the gram is like
a punch in the face your opinion.
Well, it mixes really well is what I'm pretty easy drinking.
I guess it's like rum vodka sort of mixed.
I forgot the name of a fruit.
Jay's that fruit that's like an orange, but it's not called an orange.
It's like a big no.
Patrick grapefruit gringo, a big orange.
Yeah, it's like it is like a big orange.
It's nothing like a grape.
You can say it's like it's kind of like a grape.
You can say it's a strange grape.
How is it like a grape?
It's they're both they're both eukaryotes for starters.
They're both plants, you know, they're both plants.
They have juice in them.
How is it like a great?
How is it like a great more so than other fruits specifically?
I didn't say more so than I didn't say more.
Well, I was straw man.
I was fucking straw man over here.
I can't believe that our manager review that honey.
I was small.
I can't believe defining my terms because I felt like clearly enough to find
that's your opinion.
Jay is efap 51 the efap that will tear this family apart.
I think it is stay tuned next week for efap 52 to see if Jay ever shows
his face around here again.
And to think it was all because of passion fruit.
And letters we had grapes.
Is everyone ready for me to some kind of gay?
Is everyone ready for me to have more like gailies?
I want to make sure we actually get through all of it just
in case rags unable to hear the rest of it would be some more fun.
Yes, that's fair.
Oh, yeah, we can take a look like they hate that argument.
Oh video, right because it's true an argument.
I would I'd say he's been too charitable.
There's quantitative statements and there's qualitative statements.
A quantitative statement is not necessarily saying that's what he means
yet a qualitative statement is of something that is not numerical.
So it's like it is this or it is that positive statement is something
that you can define a value to.
So it's you know, it's 3.59.
You say did you say a positive statement or qualitative statement?
Okay.
Hang on.
I want to see if that's a qualitative data is defined as data that
approximating characterizes.
So qualitative data can be observed and recorded.
Well, that's true.
It can.
So well, but I assumed his point wasn't going to be there.
I assume.
Wait, wait a second.
Hold up can't isn't all data that because that is data like
by definition.
That's the right way to pretend I'm retarded.
How do you how do you split those two apart?
Jay just to say.
Yeah, I've already had a bit to drink though.
So it's not fair.
Okay, so I don't know if that I did this is purely from how I was
told it in psychology because I didn't ever learn it in any other
context but in psychology qualitative is like a B or C, you know,
multiple joint answers, you know, there are only a certain number
of answers that can be given to how to translate that to like
let's just say judging a rock in some way.
All right, so qualitative would be for kind of think of a single
qualitative thing.
Like would it be it has to reach a certain amount of mass to be
considered X quality.
I might be able to say no because that's that's a quantity.
Okay, so if it's literally, you know, if it is along a spectrum
or so you can assign a value to it and you can go infinitesimally
smaller than that.
Yeah, no quantitative data can be counted measured and expressed
using numbers qualitative date is descriptive and conceptual.
Yes.
All right.
Let's continue with the video.
Okay thing going back to Ruby and got an objective problem.
The fact that or is described in different ways that don't that
are mutually exclusive.
That is a quantitative statement.
You can say that like in volume two or was passive in volume
four or five onward.
It's active.
That's a quantitative statement.
And if you think that's a problem, then that's a qualitative
statement.
Okay, we have to ignore that guy just said yeah, yeah, he started
it off with started off strong, but then is like no bad example.
So if we translate this to media, which I'm not even sure that
we should be doing I imagine Theo is desperate to be able to
put us back on track with this because he probably knows more
about this, but just for the particular terms.
I mean, okay, we can bring Theo it and just give me a sec.
I just wanted to say that like so quantitative that's the
word.
Yeah, like that's one of them the amount of plot holes.
There are and the degree to which they affect progress.
These are things that like can't be assessed not I wouldn't
I don't know if I go as far as saying numerically, but we
can actually identify ones and zeros to a degree.
Well, I think you could count the plot holes quantitatively
the degree would be qualitatively.
Yeah, so no the degrees value the degree like five out of
ten.
That's a value.
So like when we say something like in the sense of like the
example would be how much more if there's not a specific amount
but you know that it's more what I was going to reference is
like so, you know, like let's just say a shoe is in the background
it turns upside down between shots like so that's pretty
much on the lowest end of the fucking scale.
It doesn't matter in any way shape or form, but then you have
the stuff that literally allowing the biggest payoff to
happen involves massive plot holes to be ignored like those
at the top of the scale again, I'm not trying to say that we
have some kind of written document to explain how to categorize
these things but we do tend to operate as if that is the case
and we have a shared understanding of the difference
most reasonable people do accept that the shoe that turned
around is not as severe as Captain Marvel destroying
everything in Endgame.
The shoe that turned around?
I'm making that up.
The idea is that nobody out there says well, no those two
are yeah, that's another one like nobody's arguing that the
Starbucks Cup is as serious an issue as Daenerys murdering
thousands of innocent children.
Yeah.
So the implication being that there is a system by which
we're scaling them.
Be fair.
I'm sure there is the one person.
Barring those outliers.
Yeah, right.
Either there will be the one guy who's like no the shoe fuck.
The thing is though, I'm curious if Theo would say that these
are like things that we should even be using with with what
we're talking about.
I don't know.
I mean, I would say that the key to getting their foot in
the door is to just acknowledge they exist.
Right.
Because you find a lot of critics will say that they'll
say that you can say objectively that things are things.
That's true.
A plot hole is a plot hole.
Like there's no like no, it's a subjectively a plot hole or
something like that.
I don't know how far these guys go with it.
Here's the example of saying like let's say that in The
Force Awakens they say that Poe blew up Starkiller Base and
then they said in the next movie Poe did not blow up Starkiller
Base and these were both authoritative like narrative sources
saying that.
Well, I can just say the same person saying it.
Well, you have an example of that, right?
People can say two contradictory things but them saying
it isn't the plot hole.
Right.
Well, you could have an explanation of that.
Wait, no then.
They could they could believe each.
They could also believe it and still they could be brainwashed.
The idea is that with all the information you have at hand
that there's the example being that Finn is shocked that
they chased them through hyperspace and he's like that's
impossible and then in the next scene, he's like, oh shit,
we can destroy the breaker for the hyperdrive because I know
I used to work there.
It's like
these pieces of information seem to contradict each other.
Finn is just dumb.
Well, is the thing you could actually you can retcon it to
its most absurd degree to try and say that's not well and
we have examples of that when we say Hux should have shot
the raddest.
We have people saying yeah, but Hux is is an idiot.
Hux is raging.
Hux is you have to make emotional arguments because it doesn't
make sense.
This is a fanatical Star Wars Disney Universe, right?
And that's yeah, let's think I've seen that now.
It's funny.
Anyway, let's let these people continue statement.
And if you think that's a problem, then that's a qualitative
statement.
That's a quality.
Yes qualitative statement based on a quantitative fact now
for like, but that's still something you value.
For someone who doesn't care about retcons.
You can value it.
That doesn't mean that it's subjective just because you
value it.
The fact that you value it is subjective.
If anything, the value is the standard that you're using and
as long as you're being consistent with that standard,
it can be used pretty much identically to objectivity.
I feel like the conversation is going to get even more muddled
by throwing in the qualitative and quantitative in with
subjective objectives value.
I wouldn't worry about judgment.
Yeah, they don't mean the things that he thinks they mean
was the thing we've got saying you have five people in this
column and three people in their conversation and this many
key terms all going around without clear definitions.
It's like this is just a recipe for not understanding each
other.
Mm-hmm.
I think it was better now than it wasn't going to is that okay,
that might be that might be the debate you two need to have
because it might be the argument of well, you care about you
or him care about different things in that regard, but I don't
sort of but that's not really what the argument has never
been about me caring about it because I didn't I didn't care
about the plot holes in endgame when I was watching it.
I've used it different arguments for this before.
I'm just as flawed as anyone is when it comes to not noticing
that I didn't notice a lot of what was wrong with TLJ my
first time around.
I noticed the big stuff the big the first thing I wanted to
talk to people about was Holdo's plan.
I was like this is like it was glaring to me and simultaneously
it's the one that just right said is be most people won't notice
and I was always just like but they won't notice the whole
film like
several people people just won't know just the film
an objective standpoint because objective no it's based on fact
if I believe no, it doesn't mean based on facts.
Okay.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Well, I guess it depends on how you would he thinks the last
I was gonna say it's complicated.
The main qualifier is just irrelevant of how you feel or personal
bias.
Yeah, not relying on opinion is all it is to be fair.
It's almost impossible to say something irrelevant of personal
bias.
Why no two plus two is for no just why explain because everything
you are like biased by nature in everything that you say you
may think that something is objective but in everything
you've learned and everything that is going on, you know,
everything's okay.
So for example, there is a mouse on my desk mouse meaning
a PC
referral.
Yeah.
So so what about that statement was subjective?
I can't be bothered to go further with this line of thinking
because bullshit.
I love you.
I can say that bias is absolutely color a great deal of basically
all that we think about that agree to which they do and our
ability to remove bias to the use of independent verification
though in solve this issue very very well and you'll find it
happens all the time.
You'll have biases can create literal false memories.
Yes.
I was going to say like you'll have this will happen all the
time.
You'll you'll be able to catch yourself.
Like for example, someone just goes.
Oh my god.
Fucking that movie was terrible and someone else is like why
and you go fucking or Justin Timberlake was in it and you
so bad and you're like was it that bad?
I think it was that bad and you eventually like the person
makes so many arguments to you and you eventually realize like
oh, I just hate Justin Timberlake fuck.
Okay, this I've seen this about spider-verse people saying it
was bad because it was an SJW movie because Miles is a black
replacement for a white character.
Right.
Yeah, this is the yeah, we're not a fan of that.
We get frustrated with it.
I don't care about no bullshit arguments.
And yeah, this is the thing like identifying your biases is
great but him his comment section finding out like things
you have issues with can really help with with how you'll
absorb stuff in future because you'll be like I have to keep
an eye on myself for like I really have an issue with this
person.
I don't even know why or this piece of media or this this
place or this object this these you know, it just happens.
But then race when you get down to really simple statements
like the one I just gave you like, you know, I am currently
in a house like what's the bias there and you'd have to
start arguing really philosophical stuff like your
concept of what a house is is subjective.
You're like, okay.
I just hope that these discussions don't end at hard
solipsism and then we have insights in brookey at our
it's catastrophic idiot.
You know, it's like kind of the best way to do that stuff.
Anyway going on bad movie, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, he spent 11 hours talking about it.
He must think it's bad.
Okay, a purely objective talk about things.
I love 11 hours.
Yeah, yeah, I don't follow that logic.
I get what you're trying.
I can try and stop me from talking about Buffy if you've
watched it yourself.
I'll ask you like every question under the Sun active in
arguable fact that one shot in that movie was in focus,
right and being in focus is a good thing.
Therefore, the movie is good.
Oh my god.
No, that's very interesting since I mainly do writing but
okay. Yeah, if anything, that's just a quality statement
about a certain segment of the movie.
It's the same pick argument.
Oh, he doesn't like the red light there.
Well, the movie's bad if he's I think he's trying to present
me a problem without my own logic, but I just be like but
if you accept my own logic, then you would have to agree
that I'm segmenting it and almost grading the portions.
And so if visuals come up with an A but writing of an F
that doesn't equalize to an A.
Well, that's all that's why instantly all of us were like,
no.
Well, yeah, we were all frustrated.
It's like this is fucking garbage arguments.
The same thing you hear all the damn time with the whole
thing is like, oh there was a nitpick there for the whole
movie is bad.
I am so
and his deep and thorough critique has both the big things
and the little things.
It's like after my another life video people genuinely told
me that I was nitpicking after I said that the
fucking the characters motivations literally made no sense.
The plot contradicted itself like the core premise of one
episode contradicted the core premises of another one.
Also, the series has like sexual assault apologetics in
it without like really realizing it.
And then people go all your nitpicking and like why and
they're like, well, I don't care about those things and
like
Let's see another word.
I would ask someone to identify and what I found more
commonly never nitpick means invalid criticism.
It's like what's why do we have a word for that invalid?
They don't care about this.
Well, then you just ask them.
All right.
What word would you like to use to define valid criticisms
that are relatively very small or potentially very minor?
Because if we can't use nitpick, what would you like to use
as a substitute?
I don't want to concede nitpick round to automatically
invalid.
I was like fuck that the whole point of it.
That's just designed to make them go like oh, yeah, of
course.
It's the same with opinion, right?
It's like yeah, I hope you're noticing audience that the
main issue me and Rags seem to have with all of this is
just getting them to define their fucking terms.
Yeah, because people don't think about it.
They just don't they just don't think about this stuff.
They just kind of accept it and it's not something that is
brought up in typical conversate like tell people color
doesn't exist and they'll be like what the fuck oh and
I think we also expect them to think about I think they
also need to at least watch the fucking videos first.
Well, that would be cool.
He's judging my Twitter personality.
That's what he said.
Well, no, he can't watch him because he described earlier
on Twitter that your longness is like an inherent defense
mechanism essentially.
I'm picturing like a David Attenborough documentary now.
He uses longness to defend himself.
Piece of shit.
You know, you can picture that right?
David Attenborough.
Same things.
Yeah, like narrating about how it uses length.
The molar uses its own length to defend itself against potential
predators.
Here we see natural molar in its environment.
Praying upon the subjective creatures of the world.
You see.
Right.
It's time.
I've made a complete I've made an objective.
The new factually accurate released it is time to feed.
Argument for why the movie is good.
That's a fair argument.
No, there was not an argument in that movie good because
shot was in focus.
The fact that it was in focus is good.
And yes, that's that's subjective essential.
Yes, if we use clarity as a as a standard or as a qualitative
measurement and he's like, all right, using that as the
measurement as is using using clarity as the desired results
we can then measure the quality of that aforementioned, you
know, fuzziness that blurriness.
If that if if that's how you want to define it.
You actually argue that's a fair argument, but it is supplementary
information that is based upon.
But what what what does he value with supplementary?
I don't want any shit.
You would know if you watch exactly.
It's very straightforward.
So what are visuals doing?
It's like, well, they're representing the things that are in the
story. It's like, okay, what's the sound doing?
It's like I was giving sound of the things in the stories like
aha, what are the actors doing?
Well, they're representing the characters in the story like
huh, seems like every single thing is working to accentuate
the script almost like the the story of this story is the core
part is the entirety for everything else existing.
Everything else is just trying to make the script work or at
least project it because we don't watch films to have some
guy in a chair read them to us.
It's like we have all these other things to show them.
And so if you have incredibly good acting like fucking Mark
Hamill doing it and really great shot composition, great CGI,
a whole bunch of amazing songs and sound in the soundtrack
from Mr. Williams himself.
It's like, oh, so the film can't be bad.
It has all of those nailed, right?
I suppose depending on exactly how we would break down what
is to be a film, a good film, bad film, whatever.
But if I'm specifically talking about the writing, which
I have been trying to be specific about in future from now on
so there's no confusion.
I think the most important thing about a story is the writing
rather than the jangly keys.
That's just IMO.
So hopefully that clears that up.
I don't know.
Besides, there's plenty of arguments to be made about the
acting the sequel trilogy.
It's not like Mark Hamill doing when we consider a lot of
people consider Daisy Ridley to be terrible.
Kylo Ren is like one note with degree.
Got Holdo, which was frustrating.
There's a lot of like conversation and then glib as well
as other people would like to argue that the film is actually
poorly shot slash or cinematography.
So you'd have to hear those arguments too and then repurposing
music.
Is it something we should celebrate when they literally
just repeat music from the older films?
Like I don't know.
All of these are very interesting conversations.
Wouldn't you agree?
No.
Okay.
I want to talk about Minecraft TIE fighters.
No.
He's making, he's saying these are the factual.
I don't want to be speaking.
Yeah, okay.
I don't think it's fair.
All right.
All right.
Yeah, save it for your debates.
I honestly think it'd be be more interesting.
No, okay.
The reason I don't want to debate him is because he is
setting the terms of what it means to be right.
Terms all you want.
If you want to define words the way you want, what do you
say had to step up?
He said that the reason he doesn't want to debate me is
because I will set the terms on what it means to be right.
What the fuck?
All right.
Let's roll it back.
Set the terms on what it means to be right.
Okay.
The reason I don't want to debate him is because he is
setting the terms of what it means to be right.
Yeah, that's called a debate.
I was going to say that's not even outside of that normal.
It's like all debates.
The other person wants to set the terms on what's correct.
If I make it a claim about what it would mean to be the
winner of the debate and he disagreed with it, then we
would have to work on that first.
That's fine.
And I would say, but then fuck it, then let's just talk.
This is bizarre.
This feels like the most squirmiest way to be like, I
don't want to debate.
Let me load.
The fuck does this even mean?
The objective opinion is his one.
What the fuck?
What?
Where'd you get that?
The objective?
He's a Quinton reviews where he's like rags them all to
think their opinions are objective and everyone else is
subjective.
It's like, did you even listen to anything we say?
No, stop acting like you said it feels like they deliberately
ignore us and just assume what we're saying.
Come on.
Work a little bit harder.
The opinion is his one and he is going in so that anyone
trying to argue against him is automatically wrong.
Not even true.
There's plenty of people have debated or exceeded points.
You believe that you are right, then anyone going against
you is going to be wrong automatically based on that
assumption that yes, because that's why we think what we
do because we think it's right and the alternatives are
wrong.
The hugely controversial debate that we all entered debate
if you believe one position in a dichotomy, then you believe
that the people who believe the other position are wrong.
That's how that works.
Yes, that's the unspoken.
Yes, it's at the beginning of every debate.
If you were to ask both participants, do you think that
your perspective is the correct one and they said no, I'd
be like, why are you even here?
Automatically wrong.
He's like my opinion.
He uses the term like the robot, correct?
Like if a robot reviewed this, you only mention that like
how many times have you actually talked about the robot once
with the just right and every single time I talked about
it since it's been correcting people because they for some
reason people like fat man falling.
I'm going to guess right now.
He's going to assume so we'll just go over it quickly.
So I believe in the just right debate.
He was talking about how you can't make objective statements
as a human because you're a human and I was like, so let's
just theoretically invent a robot incapable of making biased
statements.
It's just mechanical and it only runs on the the basis of
judging things as logical errors.
Yes, because objectivity exists outside minds being able
to come because like the premise being that I can identify
a logical error, but I only consider it a problem from a
subjective bias or something and it's like, well, what would
it mean to be lacking a subjective bias?
Like if you just steal, I guess you didn't actually have
any kind of investment in anything emotional.
So and you just run the script through the little robot and
it poops out a bunch of results.
It's like Holdo plan.
There's a failure for her to describe the plan to Poe in
this section, this section, this section that would have,
you know, I don't know how the fuck this robot would work.
The point was that if the robot presented these problems
to Joseph, not Joseph Anderson, just right.
It's hard to keep track of all these things.
He would not be able to respond robot.
You're biased.
You you feel these are problems when they're not problems
or something.
You just be like, no, I'm just I'm just doing what the program
ran. I've got no yeah.
I got no things based off of the criteria that you've given
me. It's all I'm doing.
And I was trying to argue that we can do that.
We can we can operate like that, similarly to how I said,
you know, mouse on my desk.
There's nothing there that there's no process that required
feeling so we can be the road because we're all conduits,
right? I've been trying to bring that word in as well as attempt
to maybe bridge the gap of some people.
We can only do what we can do like we try our best.
So if we all watch the film a film the five of us then you
fast forward one week and then we're all supposed to describe
how the film went down in detail from start to finish.
All five of us are going to have different accounts.
That's just this we're doing the best we can but we're human.
We we we are flawed.
We're going to remember things wrong.
If you have a sixth guy who has access to the file and is
told that the more accurate he is the more money he gets
something then yeah, he's probably just going to play it
here a line pause read the line player and he's probably
gonna have the best results.
And so I try and advocate that to get the best work when
analyzing media is to basically not only redraft your own
work several times, but to if it's a movie rewatch it several
times watch what it's a part of as a series look into other
people's perspectives to really see if you've missed anything
because sometimes you can watch a film seven times and still
miss something important.
Rant over.
Yeah.
We all do the best we can some of us are this is another
thing I get caught up on the people hated.
I was in a stream with Wolf.
I think it was prior or post that just right thing where
I said the me and Wolf had like you could call it a gift or
an ability or something else to just be able to break down
media faster and more effective than many people can and
they're like wow, how fucking high do you think yourself?
It's like, okay, so if we're to accept that there is ability
the critical analysis is a skill and it's something you
can learn and become better at then is it controversial to
say that someone could be better at it than someone else like
oh, yeah, just it's a super simple are some people better
film at better a film analysis than others is like you would
have to be insane to say no, everyone is equally good at
analyzing.
Well, they would because everything subjective when it
comes to that, right?
Well, if anything that just well, then that's like cutting
off their nose to spite their face because that the values
every single thing that they do true and then they would
probably say that we're all just as valuable.
Everybody's saying anything about a movie is just as
valuable.
It would be hard to explain then why it is that some people
are more popular than others.
Is it literally just based on the way they look or something
else?
Yeah, that that would be insane.
It's that's almost so insane.
I'd have to stop and think about it and be like wow, how
do you even tackle something so insane that literally everybody
has the exact same quality of place that in the qualities
analysis?
It's a sad reality, right?
Because Theo just mentioned in chat, what right do I have
to critique a subject from not fluent in its mechanism?
So if someone was talking about how amazing their car was
and we were looking in like the actual pieces of it and
everything and I'm just standing there knowing nothing
about cars and I go, I think it's a shit car.
Yeah, mechanics a great example.
And you're like, why do you think it's a shit car?
And I go, I don't know.
It's it's ugly.
Why is it ugly?
You know, well, because I don't know some of these pipes
are wrong.
I don't like them.
If someone said, yeah, your opinion is like barely relevant.
Like I don't give a fuck.
I can't then go like, what?
It's fucked up, dude.
And then someone might be like, yeah, but art isn't a car.
And I'd be like, well, for one, it can be very much.
So you can have artists work really fucking hard on cars.
Secondly, well, fucking all design when it comes to technology
is an art.
It's absolutely like man using its understanding of technology
to minimize the amount of resources required to make it
while also maximizing its efficiency as technology, right?
That's like the how could you not call that artistic but more
to the point scripting.
I'd say that's the opposite of artistic.
Is it?
Well, yeah, because if you're going for you know, it's efficiency
and I don't think that's that's artistic.
It has to do with its utility like, you know, like so let's
say you create something that's mind-blowing in terms of a
breakthrough in terms of I don't know a phone or car or whatever.
I can like behold it in all I'm like that's incredible and this
this is going to push us into the definition of art.
So I kind of want to stay away from it because that's going
to be a rabbit hole too.
That's fine.
Let's just move to the point I was trying to make which was
you have people who know how scripts work.
Maybe they write them for a living or they've been watching a
bazillion films and you have a guy who's never seen one before
it's like everyone's opinion is valid.
It's like, yeah, I not really the point.
What do you mean valid?
Does I be like when you say that what do you mean by everyone
like an invalid opinion?
Well, I mean validity in terms of logical structure does have
a definition.
Lizzie, that's another way.
I would just ask for their definition.
Yeah, Jay is posting pictures of very ugly cars.
It's the same ugly car.
I don't know who designed but they need to know.
I just like that.
That's still the go-to car.
It's like, do you know any ugly cars?
Yes, that Fiat one.
Yeah, it's the double chin car.
Are you saying that's the fat man car?
Yeah, I'm saying that car gets the vote twice.
That's the mauler fields of cars.
Mauler fields of cars.
The fact that we've said it's the Fiat double chin car and
it's the ugly car people know what we're talking about.
Yeah, I think they actually do typically.
See, though, I think that we've gotten we've drilled out way
more interesting conversations out of this.
This is no, we killed it to denial.
People are saying, can we see Google Fiat double chin car?
I did put it on screen.
It is a it is a monstrosity of metal and plastic and glass.
I remember like the first time I saw that when I was a child
thinking what the fuck?
What is wrong with that car?
Yes, it has problems.
No, not only it was a bright orange one as well.
So that nobody misses it.
Oh, look at my shit car.
Car is amazing.
You're an addict.
It tastes like gasoline.
Aceline?
Aceline.
I'd like to think of it as an aceline.
So someone mentioned that apparently Eric's been talking
about me on Twitter and I'm just having a look.
Of course he has.
If I can see keywords more like showing up about my video
because I released is it about how long it is?
The Game of Thrones one long man bad.
Oh, he said he got here.
Are you implying more as critiques are useful to writers
because lol?
Okay.
You know, the ridicule baby as a writer myself.
I would say I find your critiques useful more.
I would absolutely say that if somebody wants to have a
story that's consistent that they could they could get great
value from watching your car.
Even if it's if it's nothing but somebody highlighting bad
examples, then that could give value to people because they
will know what to kind of look for as bad examples.
Fucking even if they don't even if they don't say why if
it's just nothing bad.
This is bad.
This is bad.
This is bad.
This is bad.
They're like, oh, yeah, those are bad.
I should avoid those.
Eric is a she now.
Well, sorry Patricia is a she now or as I am still calling
him Eric because I don't know.
I don't know what I don't know the specifics.
I don't know if he's fucking with me.
What's going on?
Like I don't I don't follow Eric extensively.
So I don't know if it's like a thing where they just fucking
around with names on Twitter or if it's an actual full-on
real thing.
I don't know.
Eric, Patricia, I'll call you whatever you want.
I won't.
So you posted she posted whatever there's a post of my
it my thumbnail way easier and Patricia has said this is
a visual representation was like to watch more as content
and it's this this is the screenshot I've got of Daenerys
looking at a picture of himself and so I responded is more
of that bad and then Patricia said not that bad just mediocre
and pretentious.
That's interesting.
Do you mean that objectively?
Oh, no.
And then they said well, I guess I should just I can just
not only show this on stream, but sorry, we'll come back
to fat man.
We're dealing with another one of my critics.
You got a are you implying something?
You know, this is just what fat man was doing.
Are you saying this?
Oh, wait, wait, click that and then go to the top.
I meant to link you so my argument is saying lol.
If you go scroll to the top, I read out the part where she
got we're down to I don't know.
I just watched three of his videos and they're quite decent.
Please elaborate and then Patricia says his criticism is
thorough but surface level all he does all he does it all
under the pretense of striving for objective criticism in
art, which can't exist.
Okay, but even if that's wrong, what about what I say like
that's the if that's the conclusion of it.
What about everything else?
I said like I talk about themes.
Is that a subtext?
Are we not allowed?
I thought those were what he considers beyond she considers
beyond surface level.
I used to loathe his stance, but after a while I just realized
he meant criticism based on objective evidence instead of
a judgment of truth about a piece of media.
No, that's him moving the Gulp.
Sorry, let me read that again.
After all, I realized he meant criticism based on objective
evidence instead of a judgment of truth about a piece of
media.
I'm not sure I do agree with that.
Multi objective by a standard judgment of truth, but a piece
of media is that something I do?
I'm trying to think about the words judgment of truth.
I imagine that what he's trying to say here is that it's it
corresponds to what's really happening in the media.
But he's saying that I don't say that but someone I do say
that he meant instead of I used to love but I realized he
meant criticism based on objective evidence instead of
a judgment of truth about a piece of media.
That's all that sounds contradictory to me.
I'd have to ask for elaboration on that.
No, that's him moving the goalposts.
Everyone gives criticism based on object.
No, they don't.
That's I don't even agree with that.
Like that's not even something I do necessarily.
Everybody can give criticism based on how they feel or
objective evidence.
You can do both.
I can like I said, I can dislike Justin Timberlake for example
and then watch a movie where he's the protagonist and be
like, no, I don't like it because I find him annoying.
That's not objective.
He's not objectively annoying subjective that he's in it.
True, but that's the thing is everything subjective is like
is Daisy Ridley an actor in the for this in fact, you
could make as many objective observations out of pieces
you like but as soon as you make a judgment of quality
you've entered the realm of subjectivity and then they
said not necessarily some criticisms are able to be qualified
solely by subjective measures.
If a viewer engages a scene outside of his content that
isn't meant by the author.
It's still a valid subjective take that's useful for other
viewers just not for the author.
I mean it might be useful for the author, right?
EG someone could argue for hypothetical non-intended theme
over any kind of writing, but if the evidence taken for that
interpretation goes contrary to the text and simply arguing
for your own perspective.
Starting out a conclusion instead of getting to it.
Yeah, I'd agree with that.
It's just the author could be interested by it.
Like if you wrote a story that had no theme and then someone
drew one out of it, you might be like, oh, that's cool.
To judge something objectively would be similar to compiling
a hypothesis.
It's derived from the object and then changes over contrary
evidence.
That's why they could be several objective takes made out
of different amounts of information and ambiguity
within the text.
The point of striving for objectivism, although one could
never achieve it in the theory is to help the author in the
craft of the media.
Meanwhile, the point of subjective criticism is to help
different kinds of viewers to stipulate or understand their
own engagement of the text.
I kind of like that overall.
He has a decent decent viewpoint on the whole thing.
And then that's where he says, are you implying that Mullis
critiques are useful to writers because lol, I mean, how do
we how do we how do we prove that that would be the case?
Would I just have to find writers that find my stuff useful?
Is that all I need to do or would they not be considered
writers all in supporting evidence?
Pretty much.
Yeah, but we probably only need one because that's yeah,
that's literally the thing that I guess he's saying isn't
true.
But what would taxes say in response like they're not real
writers?
Yeah, well, they're not what they're finding useful isn't
what they think is useful.
I guess he would try to say it does more harm than good and
I'm like, all right.
Well, I don't believe that do tell.
From what I can tell from watching his videos and talking
to him personally, Mueller is striving for some kind of
prescriptive version of theory in order to aid in communication
about what it means for something to be good.
But theory already does this descriptively.
I don't know if I want to read all of this.
I don't either.
Keep on keeping on tax on me and rags enthusiastically await
your video on on people.
We will enjoy our success in our large communities and our
happiness and joy and we will enjoy the discussions that we
have man.
No, don't worry.
You don't have to come to our birthday party.
And yeah, I'm I'm I'm happy to hear you want to complete the
trifecta of covering Wolf myself and now rags to complete
it will have a wonderful party enjoying what's going to be
a very generous take on whatever rags feels about certain
positions.
I already know you consider him a complete racist.
So it's a good start.
Yeah, I'm sure it will be extremely accurate to the to
what I'm actually thinking.
We're gonna say please racist.
You mean like a racist who's found themselves and is comfortable
with who they are?
Well, he's so please wear clothes.
You can't make that kind of restriction upon him.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
Yeah, probably is actually wait.
How does that work?
If you identify as female and take your shit off on YouTube,
is that kind of it is like bannable nudity?
How does that work?
Also, if YouTube doesn't censor that are they being transphobic?
Damn, it's almost like it's fucked up.
We can't be the first people to come across.
This is an issue, right?
Yeah.
Well, what if I take a woman's breasts be the first person to
come across trans female nipples?
Well, if you take an if you take a naked dude, right and then
you Photoshop off his nipples and then replace those onto
the nipples of breasts on a woman.
Is that still pornography?
Is it still I mean that doesn't break to shop to man's nipples
onto a woman's nipples.
So it's that's not female nipples.
Yeah, technically you might be in like, you know, you've
got a you've got a normal like your nine till five is moderate
in Twitch or something and you have a family and this one's
like asking you that question.
You're like, how fucking no, I don't know.
They don't tell me these things.
Like it's almost like these types of politics.
Just slow everything down.
Well, it's almost like deciding that male nipples are okay
and female nipples aren't dumb as shit.
Well, it's probably all comes back to the the boob, right?
That's what it all comes back to breasts.
Yeah, breasts are sexual, but a man's chest isn't people want
to say that boobs are like dirty and that you're not allowed
to see them and what's the center of the boob the nipple.
Therefore, it's the nipple that's wrong, but a nipple is just
the female.
It's the female nipple.
If anyone wants to quote me on a nipple is just a nipple.
That's okay.
It's just a nipple.
That's just just just call the call that this stream.
It's just episode 51.
It's just a nipple.
More you have to do that.
Do what change the cycle to episode 51.
It's just a nipple.
I can't do that.
You can literally can it's your channel.
You can edit physically.
I made a deal with the devil.
That's the one thing he said.
I couldn't say Satan would want to try to weasel his way
out of it.
Chat Satan says free the nipple.
That's your opinion.
Jay has to do it.
Will you do it?
Like I thought we established the people want.
Are you going to are you going to follow the audience?
All right.
Who was supposed to listen to rags or Jay?
We're both saying the same thing.
So no, I'm going to I'm going to so I'm going to have a follow-up
question.
I don't want to ask both of you.
I'm curious what Jay will say.
All right, Jay.
What specifically do you want the title to be?
If app number 51, I forgot what we were saying.
That's the title.
I forgot specific the whole I forgot specifically part.
I forgot what we were saying rags.
What were we saying?
I want to call it that would be funny though.
That's the best I'll ever that's amazing.
Okay, I guess we're great.
Thank you Jay.
All right, we did it.
He actually just went into that on the most recent efap
where the entire idea is you have to you have to bounce your
own subjective opinion off of that.
Okay, I'm going to misrepresent it because he talked about
how so many people took that the wrong way.
He I guess it's kind of hard to take whatever way.
He's thinking makes him come out on top.
I mean if the way you're twisting it, I'm sure you would
really laugh after saying something is just true without
evidence.
I'm sure it makes it true.
Plenty of people did not have a problem with the robot.
Plenty of people did those people include Quentin reviews
just right fat man falling.
What a good list of names.
Yeah, I know.
These are all fantastic content creators.
Super quality a lot of detail about those things either
that or the people he's fighting against are just articulating
their points wrong.
I wouldn't say that's impossible because like it is
he got Patrick Willems.
He got a Patrick Willems video where he wrote on a big old
piece of cardboard.
This is a movie about space Wizards for children and he's
like that's that's you know, he's using a subjective
viewpoint.
What?
No.
No, so let me explain this to you in simple terms fat man.
So the idea is that if we we no longer apply logic to a
film if it has fantasy elements in it as in things that
aren't in real life is a retarded statement and then
the follow-up being well, I mean, I should probably explain
that so we have plenty of fiction that we judge based
on internal consistency versus reality like comparisons
to reality because how the fuck we supposed to write any
stories about anything if we're bound to exactly what is
capable of happening on Earth.
I mean, it's not like we can't do it.
It's just that it just limits media greatly.
I was going to say massively and then I was like, I better
change.
True because some infinities can be greater than others.
And so you got people like Patrick Willems like oh,
yeah, there's there's no adult fantasy stories.
There's no adult sci-fi stories all that not a thing.
So yeah, fuck it and then also judging the fact that something
is built for kids.
Therefore cannot be logically consistent cannot be well-written
cannot try and strive for greatness like not only wrong
because there's loads of children's content.
That's incredible for adults as well.
But why the fuck is that true?
Why is it that we should go ask for kids fuck it?
There's a lot of these assertions that they make and
that they just say this is just true and they just like
even begin to try and justify it and I made the opposite
assertion in my video that if it comes to children's content
we should take more care if anything because you need to
be careful with what you show children.
Like the female nipple.
So if Patrick Willems says we're not supposed to judge it blah
blah blah because it's for kids.
I'm not saying oh, that is a subjective take from Patrick
Willems.
It's like no, it's just tarted as hypocritical.
Probably like knew more about Patrick Willems takes about
media as you need to find something he considered.
Well, actually no, you don't even have to go further than
The Last Jedi.
He's telling us we shouldn't be so angry about a film meant
for children when he's talking about how it's the greatest
thing ever and he's like ranting to his parents about how
much he loves it.
So so how come you're allowed to go one way with your emotions
but not the other?
Exactly.
Your rule seems unfair.
Yeah, congratulations on not only letting us know that you
don't really watch my content outside of the ones that you
care about which means the ones you saw but you also didn't
understand what I was saying.
Excellent job.
And he doesn't sound like a very good person to film.
You know, he's using a subjective viewpoint.
Whereas his viewpoint of the things he prefers is the objective
one when it's like he doesn't understand.
It's like I'm listening to like someone who's drunk in a bar
who watched part of my video trying to explain it back to me.
Like you was asleep on a plate in the background.
You're like, you say objective when it's art man.
You can't do that.
How much I have likes for it is different than your likes.
What seems to be the officer problem?
His viewpoint is just as subjective like the things he values.
They don't stop throwing so many words around at once without
defining them.
What do I value is complex you asking me what I like what
things I want to see in a thing and and and personally get
satisfaction from is that what you're saying?
It's just it's so easy.
Just take any two statements.
Maybe not any two statements, but let's just take these two
ones two plus two is four.
That's the one state.
What it's not I disagree.
It's not a statement.
No, it's not for.
All right.
So the second statement would be Audrey Hepburn is beautiful.
Right and then say that both of those are completely equal in
terms of their subjective value.
And then you tell him you tell him that after what he said
and just watch it all crumble.
Apparently Celtic is here.
Hello Celtic.
Want to know what the black things behind you are?
Oh, yeah, we were debating.
So on one hand is this sound dampening in some way or is
it what I think it is, which is a sort of clothing shield
type type thing you put up when you want to like dress and
you've you've used it as a sort of way to cover a dressing
screen thing.
Yeah, like a black one because like I have something that
looks similar to that but it's orange not black.
Really?
And yeah, if he wants to you can jump on with us.
He wants to do it.
Let's just we only need another minute to finish this video
and I imagine the end.
Well, I've actually got a it's a shame because I actually
have to head out so I will I'll have to call it there for
my time and I'll event.
I'll watch the rest of this later and you'll have to fill
me in on the black screen plastic conundrum.
We might have to push the memes to the next episode because
rags is gonna have to go but that's okay.
Yes, I do have I do have I do have to go.
I did not expect basically I had a whole lineup for intro
and then memes.
I thought the intro is going to be an hour at most and we're
at three and a half.
So I'm going to resent you internally now.
I'll link you all the memes Jade.
Well, I guess there's just I get then I guess there's nothing
I could do about that.
So I'm not going to want to just close out this video.
The rice only a minute.
I mean, I'm not going to take like 30 more.
I don't I don't I don't I don't value they only have value
the person that I'm going with is notoriously impunctual.
Is it unpunctual a punctual?
I think it's impunctual impunctual.
Personally, I would just go for unreliable often.
So I will text them and say I will be over there in just
eventually in just a vintage.
Well, I'm sure we're nearing the end.
There's no real value.
So what the fuck does real me?
Every time you bring in a new tab, I like cringe internally.
I'm like no you want to watch this as a movie about space
wizards for children then.
Then Patrick Willems is being objective.
Did you miss the part where you use that as a counter argument
to people labeling criticisms?
So he was saying it can't be he's trying to shrug away criticism
with what I would consider almost a non sequitur by saying
that it is a space is a movie about space wizards meant
for children, which is completely irrelevant unless any connection
because I don't see any connection that he was trying to make.
It's it really is baffling, but yeah, he used that as a way
to shrug off the things that we said.
So for you to say that it's the same thing is interesting.
Because he's trying to argue that Patrick is explaining the
way in which he views the film and it's like he tried to
use it as a counter to criticisms.
It doesn't work as a counter as Rags just said.
It's a non sequitur is bizarre.
You almost have to double take you like what do you mean?
It's a space was a film for children.
What is this connection between that being a rebuttal until
you like make the connection because it's just so out there.
Also, yeah, people are saying he wants I know.
I know.
I just said earlier, we're going to finish the video.
We're nearly done and I'll bring him on.
It's all right.
Yes, because I got to leave in just a moment.
Anyway, we have to head slightly to the right.
Can we see tissues on that just boy?
I want to change my vote up to 90.
90.
I think I'm with Jay on the 90.
And if you want to watch it as the whatever Mahler likes,
you know, the you know, the consistency of writing.
Okay, so if that were true, how does he explain the fact
that I adore endgame and I can see that endgame is poorly
written?
Like I what I would love for him to watch our discussion
of endgame and just watch his brain explode.
Because we ripped into that movie and we love that movie
all at the same time.
I love hate endgame so much.
Yeah, yeah.
Or the you know, like he doesn't matter what he likes.
We're not talking about likes the characters that the characters
making bad decisions.
Yeah.
No, you're giving me plenty of time to find out what to eat
for dinner.
So I'm just over here like yeah, it's like you're just understand
that what's happening here.
Is there someone who refuses to debate person B trying to
awkwardly and terribly explained to person a what person
B thinks?
It's just it's crazy that this is what it's come to.
Ash, you know, I'm not running up against an hour.
So she probably start watching DBZ bridge.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I know smaller video already.
I want to see this debate motherfucker.
I will go ahead and make them all because I know that I would
be fucking slaughtered.
Because I can't I can't even articulate my point to somebody
else who who casually in conversation isn't even mauler.
What hope do I possibly have against mauler and rags?
I don't know man.
If he comes in here and says you guys are joking, right?
What are we going to do with fucked?
Like no, I would just say no.
We're being very serious.
Take take everything that we say seriously, then you'll
laugh in terms of subjectivity and subjectivity.
We'll just slowly wait for him to make a point.
Yes, like make whatever point you'd like and we'll analyze
it one thing at a time.
We can we can take it as seriously as you want.
Because like I said, like all the examples that we've been
giving, they just break down at the most base level because
he doesn't think about it.
Yeah, and there we are.
All right.
Okay.
Celtic Phoenix.
If you can hear me go into the description of this stream
find a link to my discord get in there and then at me in
the discord and I will get you in this call.
That's the easiest way I can make this work.
And yeah, that was that was interesting and fat man, you
could have just stayed away.
We ended our conversation on good terms last time.
No, and yeah, apparently he's got a mauler video with
the works, which I mean if only had a podcast where I
discussed with friends the ideas of people who criticize
us.
But no, I can't wait for it.
It'll be great that we have that in tax and back-to-back.
It'll be great.
Well think about the the sheer volume of the discussion
that we've had the past X amount of hours on this very
loose kind of casual chatter between people in a podcast
just goes to show how much depth there can be to this
conversation.
Absolutely.
This is the thing like another thing they think is a counter
to us is like you guys accept the fact that the conversation
isn't over.
It's like, yeah, God forbid.
We love the fact that the conversation goes on new evidence
comes in new ideas everybody agreed with us then.
This is the thing we've been wrong before we'll make statements
and then we'll be like, oh fuck.
Why did I think that that was the way it was?
Okay.
Yeah, sorry.
Like a way that we can identify that we're incorrect is
because we believe objectivity exists.
Checking one, two, three.
Can everyone hear me?
Yeah, I do need to go though.
So I will catch everybody on the laters.
A fur fur rags.
Hello.
Hi.
Just wanted to do that.
Well, I'm sure we'll bump into each other very soon either
in his discord or whatnot.
Or in the afterlife or in the afterlife.
What are those two in Valhalla?
Of course, where you get to debate objectivity and objectivity
forever and ever and ever.
So I'll catch you later.
You do boy.
Hello.
Hello everyone.
Hello.
All right.
I'm gonna I'm gonna be completely like this is one of the
most exciting things I ever since I really started watching
efap.
I was like I gotta get on and I'm like I looked at Batman
and I'm like you you don't like mother and because it's so
weird to me because Batman hit he and you mother have such
similar reviewing styles.
At least it feels that way to me.
A lot of people have commented you guys have very similar
styles and I see it honestly.
And I don't know I've been trying to communicate with them
exactly what where's the discrepancy.
Why does he hate you so much and I don't get it.
I mean it seems to be the the framing like that.
I'll be like this is being objective about the piece while
he'll be like no it's being focused on the consistency of
the piece.
Well, yeah, I've actually I've been like doing a little
meditating since that conversation with Batman because
he did bring up some interesting points though.
I'll give me a moment here.
Let me change my profile picture because I have it as currently
this cute little snake thing.
And I like the cute little snake.
I do but like for branding purposes.
I feel like I should probably have my Phoenix up if I can
just find where the fuck I put that damn thing.
Now can I can I ask you something Phoenix?
Oh, yes, please.
Ask and understand that no comment is a perfectly
acceptable answer.
What percentage do you give it that there is some come on
that chessboard?
Well, I will say this Fatman's a furry.
Oh, no.
100%
No, that is not a board.
It is pure come.
Oh, no.
I make that as a just making it he is but I make that mostly
suggest I I don't like the I don't like tearing people down
unless they have like personally attacked me and I get why
you guys have such.
Well, Jiminy Willik is my friend.
I'm I'm glad that he hasn't personally attacked you.
He seems to think that I'm the one who's instigated on Twitter
despite the fact that he had like a whole cavalcade of criticisms
for me that are very character-based as well.
Not even content-based.
It's like I'm happy with like if someone was like, yeah,
he's probably gone with his chessboard.
I'd be like, yeah, that's a funny.
I wouldn't I wouldn't count that as a yeah, I can get over it.
But it also means that I'm happy to make fun of him too.
And it's come chessboard.
Just keep talking.
Talking talking talking talking a little more much louder.
How about now more?
My game is at max.
Well, I was not enough.
Wait, one minute.
One minute.
I have to go beyond.
Just bring that into your microphone.
I put in my nice mic for this.
Yeah. Oh, and I might not be.
Oh, that's a little better.
Oh, there you go.
But now you're a little blown out.
Turn it down a little bit.
I don't know.
It is registering the wrong microphone limit.
Okay, how about now?
Hey, perfect.
All right.
Good.
There we go.
Oh, yeah, that's way better.
That is way better.
I have a I have a my nice microphone out for this.
And for some reason I plugged it in but I didn't register.
It should have priority.
Yeah, so the yeah, holy shit.
So talking with Fatman about these things and the more I've
come to understand your objective take on things put me in
the mindset of what if we look at this more as like a science?
What if we look at trying to objectively find the quality of
a film as a science where it's because he brought up the
idea of well, then it's just common consensus and that got
to be thinking about how a lot of a lot of people like challenging
like climate change and such should I'm not going to get into
the politics of it, but like there's that whole, you know,
97% of scientists have consensus that climate change is blah
blah blah blah and that got me thinking about well science
is just as divisive as as films are but you never hear anyone
in science arguing that there's subjectivity involved at least
or object that objectivity doesn't exist.
We'll be looked at as insane if you say something like the
earth is only an oblique spheroid from a subjective perspective
because it'd be like what does that mean?
I know you do.
So basically what I'm trying to say is that if there's no
objectivity in science, it starts to bring in a lot of issues
like why should I care about climate change?
It's subjective or something like that.
We're like, this is going to end well.
So yeah, that's not going to explode.
This sounds like you're staying alive or not not to mention
the conflation between criticizing a craft versus criticizing
art.
They'll be like, how can you say art is objectively or anything
and you're like, ah, get away from that word.
Get away.
Like carpentry isn't dependent like like I've used this before
but a dovetail joint and a finger joint, they're very defined
differently.
And if someone said it's art though, I'd be like, yeah, it doesn't
change the fact that you can make a shitty dovetail joint by
not getting the measurements properly.
And they'll be like, the measurements are subjective.
They'd be like, okay.
Well, I think is I think during that conversation Fat Man
brought up a very good point of it is about defining your terms
and though I saw the tail end of this like I literally woke
up like maybe three hours ago and I'm still kind of groggy.
Part of that is because I was like moving furniture all yesterday.
So my body is is murdering me.
So I'm a little out of it.
I'm still trying to I just copy those a benefit perspective
here.
Like we didn't hear him say that at all.
And we've been saying that the whole time.
Maybe then that was because okay, here's thing.
We have a lot of conversations about this.
We've gone back and forth several times.
There's only the most recent one and we just happen to have
caught it on camera.
But we brought up the idea of its perspective base where it's
like you have to define what you're describing.
So you're like the difference between the two joints you
describe what the two different joints are what makes those
two joints and then you judge what you have been presented
as either one of those two joints and whether they have
good quality based on those those definitions.
I imagine the other calls you'll probably be reached by like
say for example, you could have a shitty dovetail joint
where it resembles one.
It's just not very it's not fitting very well and then you
could have something that just isn't a dovetail joint.
It's like those two are different degrees of bad in
terms of the dovetail joint.
And that's how you'd sort of break away the degree to which
something is like what I'm trying to convert this into is
what we're talking about earlier is how bad a plot hole
can be can differ instead of it being is it a plot hole?
Is it not a plot hole?
It's like well, that's one part but then talking about just
how bad it is or just how much damage it deals like is different.
Yeah.
Well a good example of this and I noticed this when I was
a little kid, I was watching the Naked Gun the very first
Naked Gun which by the way, anyone that hasn't seen it should
go see it and there's probably some young people in the crowd
that might not have Naked Gun Leslie Nielsen great in the
background of one scene on top of a fridge.
There's a slice of cheese like this big gold like triangular
flock of cheese and that moves from like left to right between
different cuts of the film that in a way is a plot hole.
But the significance of that plot hole is fucking piddling
in comparison to the actual plot of the movie.
It's completely irrelevant.
It's just a minor discrepancy in the visuals of the film.
And in fact, because the film was a comedy, I actually found
it hilarious that the cheese was suddenly moving.
I thought the cheese was alive and I thought was like a background
gag instead of just like so it added in a way to the actual
essence of the film in some way to at least one person.
It's
I don't know.
I don't know how to describe it.
I mean, so, you know you finding it pretty good money or something
I'll be like creating a comedy for example, like Spaceballs
objectively the story falls apart completely in many ways,
but then we can come out of it in a meta sense and be like,
oh, yeah, it's doing it deliberately to create laughter
which is a subjective result.
But you know, if someone said like you can only guess at a
subjective result, you'll never know if you can make someone
laughs like no, that's true.
But we can have identifiers.
We construct jokes.
We have there's a science to humor to a degree.
We know we do it all the fab all the time.
There's jokes will all make in the hopes that's going to make
people laugh.
That's the idea.
Like how do you make those assumptions?
Like well because we have an idea of how human works what
people expect most of us based on shock and a lot of it is
based on subversion.
So you expect a story to go one way.
Oh wait, that's a dirty word.
That's a dirty word.
Subversion is a dirty word, right?
But if it goes so just the idea of just building up this really
strong character and then chopping off his head immediately
and he just falls over and he farts or something.
It's funny because it's just like this.
So there's only ways to talk about why that's funny, but
then you can objectively state perhaps that his power level
was completely ignored and it doesn't make sense with who he
was to be able to die that way.
There's a whole conversation because we're almost talking
about like the nature of a comedy versus running a drama
and that for a lot of people that conflicts with the idea
of question if you'd treat the Last Jedi as a comedy, how
does it stand up?
Objectively poorly written, but it can absolutely cause laughs.
This is the problem with them.
Something being funny is so subjective by definition.
I can make arguments for why something made me laugh.
It's not going to make you laugh necessarily and a lot of
people obviously would be upset by the idea because they
consider it to be a very strong drama.
Spider just came all the way down to my ceiling onto my microphone.
Well, that's maybe say hi to it.
Yeah, say hi to what's going to happen.
He's a new co-host.
Put him on.
Put him on.
Like your way has to say the spider might have some intricate
knowledge about like the intricate web of objectivity when
I need like a magnifying glass in terms of audio spider.
No, just listen to the spider and say what it says.
Ask it what's going to happen in the next few days.
It's gone now.
Damn it.
Oh, you didn't even have milk.
Tell me anything.
You didn't even reveal any secrets.
The fuck?
Wow.
Fake spider.
My audio just cut out.
One minute.
Spaceballs isn't funny.
Our day Spaceballs is fucking glow.
Spaceballs is really boring.
I'll beat you up.
Do it.
Spaceballs is boring.
Fight me.
That's my beat.
Here we go.
There we go.
I literally couldn't finish it.
It was too unfunny and boring and all the keg.
You're an unfunny boring.
This is all this is all subjective.
But yes, the spider is inside my microphone of a thing.
Hello.
He really wants on the show.
Yeah.
Anyway, what were we talking about?
You're going to ask the spider whether or not Tobin McGuire is
going to be the next Spider-Man.
Oh, no, he's I've put him to safety.
He's running away now.
Just to be clear, we all want we all want the Tom Holland Andrew
Garfield Tobin McGuire crossover to happen.
Yes.
Yes.
Damn it.
Yes.
Spider-Man.
What is Spider-Man 2 was a formative movie in my life.
I need to see that crossover.
There's some argument for whether or not Andrew Garfield.
Yeah, okay.
Look, I don't think Andrew Garfield is a bad actor.
He should not be sinned for the sins of the filmmakers around
him.
So I'd say bring him in.
Bring him up to the fat.
Everyone would be absolutely okay with that.
But yeah, it's going to happen one day like an actor or
a writer or something is the problem is the problem is you
guys don't do face cam on efap.
So it's like how do you convey his hair?
We would like like that like the power describe it objectively
describe your quiff to us Andrew every follicle the shape
and curve the exact degree of every single one.
He could make it his profile picture.
But a picture does not do justice to what should be seen
with your own two eyes.
Well, yeah, but we can't we can never hope to behold it ourselves
unless we go through the last person that did went blind.
I don't know.
That's why the venom script was so bad.
I want to draw some attention here as well though that as
I'm sure you're aware fat man makes videos that are more
than one hour and yet he's criticized me for being a long
man is a in fairness to him.
Well, actually 60 hours though.
Yeah, but did you see that though?
He said that you know, not all of the same I tend to make
more than one point in an hour sometimes even several.
He wouldn't know that if he nailed it.
What do you think that was my most frustrated because he
sat down and he watched your Dark Souls 2 video.
He watched a video series.
I think he watched that entire thing and he's a big fan of
what's his face?
Each bomber guy.
H bomber guy.
So I think that might have set you guys on the wrong foot
because it's sort of like you're kind of attacking an
idol even though it's I don't consider that necessarily an
attack.
So I think that might have set you guys on the wrong foot
and I think that is he aware that the part of the reason
I did it was because I really respect H bomber guy.
I'm really like him.
And so I felt the other part is petty.
He thinks you're petty on Twitter.
I think again, I feel how can you make that claim with what
he says about me?
I don't understand on Twitter.
I've gone on record telling him I think he's petty on Twitter
sometimes.
So in all fairness, it's it's I have called him out for
similar things.
He has called you out for which might just lead it to be
like you guys might just be like two magnets with the same
same polar ends.
Oh, like a magnet with good arguments and a magnet with
bad arguments.
I don't think you've watched any of his videos.
Have you I saw part of his death note one because people
want me to play that for ER.
I think you know the interesting we'll have to see if
that ever happens.
That'd be interesting because we actually we did a reaction
to that death note movie.
And well, it's not necessarily a good a great movie.
It's a fun movie.
That's a bad word interesting to say from the subjective
crowd that it's it's fun, but it's not great.
Well, yeah, no, it's all it's not a good adaptation.
It's just not a good adaptation.
We acknowledge that but if you look at it as a standalone
film, my voice is cracked there.
I feel that was weird.
If you look at it from a standalone standpoint as an okay,
this is just it's a similar premise same name, but completely
different continuity than anything else not trying to be
the original.
It's an okay film.
It has a few wonky moments in it, but it it, you know,
point A follows point B follows point A typically and it
has some really enjoyable quirkiness to it, especially
like how L just has this habit of just like destroying
everything in his path.
I don't know if you guys noticed it in the film, but he
just like had this habit of just throwing shit off tables
and and like in the middle of a car chase.
I was like, well, it's too bad in the middle of a car chase.
He can't knock shit off a table.
I say just as he runs over one of those like bus park stops.
He's runs right through it.
And I'm like, I guess that's the car equivalents of the
range and off the table.
That's the thing.
It's like it was crazy because you know, I've seen both,
you know, the show and the and the movie and it's funny
because this L is like so removed from the original because
the original L is like really he's really calculated and
he's extremely careful.
And then this L is running around throwing temper tantrums
breaking things using it on real people.
It's like pulling guns on people and then just yelling
a guy in the middle of the cafe, but you're here.
What the fuck is this person?
But if you take him as his own character, like if you don't
if you have no connection to the original L he's a really
fun character to watch and I think he maintains the consistency
of batshit lunatic throughout the entirety of the thing.
So it's a good film if you really didn't want to see a
death note movie.
Well, that would be an interesting thing to maybe address
one day.
Maybe I'll have to watch the show and then be able to check
that video.
Personally though, I've not watched the show.
So I have the benefit of like I only know it from his fandom.
So I know some of the things and I can see where a lot of
the issues are coming from with the fandom and lots of but
I'm getting off topic because I was talking about Batman's
videos the big videos that he does are the Ruby reviews and
that's where me him and our big group team Frostbite really
make our claim is the web show Ruby done by Rooster Teeth
which is I don't know if you've seen it.
Have any of you seen it?
Nope.
No, I saw like two episodes and it didn't really grab me.
Well, that's the thing is it's it's one of those films and
this is me that fat man keeps bashing me over the head with
his it's a film is raised a series filled with potential and
fat man always brings up that potential does not mean good.
And I recognize I recognize that but so we kind of have like
a symbiotic relationship with how we handle it fat man is
very much on maulers type of style of just going to the into
the story into the the entire season every volume not seasons
and just deconstructing them from the top down just like
tearing everything apart finding where things are just falling
apart completely which is often very very easy.
The writing of the show is absolute trash.
There's a few moments of brilliance very few but they're
far and few between my job at least what I do on my channel
if anyone is interested I take those same stories what he's
torn down and I pick through the ashes and I'm like all right
this element works this element works this element works and
then I try to write a coherent story around what I think Ruby
should have been not not my opinion on what it should have
been but what I think they were trying to convey.
It was my my observation of what I think they were what their
goal was versus like how far their aspirations were away from
their talent.
So that's sort of the kind of double-ended the two-ended
prong that me and fat man make up with that series.
But if you look at fat man's Ruby reviews very much in your
vein where he just pulls the thread and just keeps on pulling.
That's a good so yeah, and that's where I get so frustrated
with him.
It's just I I don't get it.
I don't get how he could hate you.
It sounds like he's got a subjective bias preventing him
from being objective about what I'm trying to perform because
the problem is shot at H bomber guy saying that to his face
is just like that doesn't compute.
No, it might be true.
I'm not saying it is true.
I'm just going on my own speculation on the matter for my
talks with him because again, I don't like putting words in
his mouth.
I hate or trying to say what he said.
I don't like quoting I practice like a there's a little bit
of law.
I know I do not like hearsay hearsay is terrible to me.
But I'm trying to tell him to his face that I think you're
being biased towards not liking him.
Just ends with dismissal and I think that happens with a lot
of people of you.
If you try to tell them, hey, I think you're not giving this
a fair shake.
You're going to be like, no, I am giving it a fair shake.
Fuck you.
I think there's a lot of people that just kind of need jerk
in that reaction.
That's my observation on it.
I don't I've already made my clarifications.
Yeah, I mean,
it looks to be that yes, you'll make his video.
I don't know if he's going through with that or not.
We'll cover it and then you'll be welcome to come on if he
wants to.
He's already he's already welcome to come on though.
Pretty much.
Yeah, believe me.
His video won't be worthwhile because it's probably going
to be a bunch of stuff that would have been improved if
he had talked to me first.
Or watch the fucking videos.
I'm really bad out of shape about that.
Yeah, does he watch Kidal but assume that's my main content?
This is nothing man.
Maybe he likes Kidal.
Yeah, what's Kidal?
Oh my goodness.
You don't know what Kidal is.
You are uncultured.
Okay, look, I there's a lot of content to sift through with
your channel man.
I'm still getting through the rest of the efabs.
I'm like an efap 25.
Admittedly, I watched like from like 45 up until week.
No, sorry.
I watched how did you how did you find the podcast?
How did I found it through your channel because I found you
first.
I don't know how I found you.
I think it was because it was during the initial last Jedi
blitz that everyone was turning into the film and
there was someone else that that really tore down just the
opening scene from like a military stratagem perspective
Emperor penguin.
You were recommended what?
Emperor penguin.
It might have been Emperor penguin.
I'm not sure.
I know I don't really stick close to their content, but I
found your content and I binged all of that and then from
the recommended I actually found you're going to get kicked
out of this Anderson.
Joseph Anderson, which I do think you guys have very similar
style.
So I do he does get that whole subjectivity video was so
I found all this content and I binged all that I basically
binged both of your contents back to back.
It was a very very interesting time for me to learn about
objectivity versus subjectivity and all that such which I
thought I knew about and then I didn't realize how deep the
rabbit hole went.
Oh, it keeps going.
It's never ending.
Well, it's interesting because like if you really like the
podcast then you're going to love Godel because just go
in on GDLB type that in and then it's the second episode.
There's only two get all to get all of the payoffs though
for Godelp to you need what point and you have to watch up
to that's a good question.
Actually, I'm not sure.
I'm getting an autocorrect for get lab.
If you type more than Godelp that should probably let you
type it out.
Well, I mean me.
I am like is this on YouTube or like yes, it's not okay.
Oh, yeah.
Eos has just said by the way, his plague tale review counters
like Joseph Anderson's plate or review counters his own
perspective on subjectivity.
Fringy had me watch the first few minutes of that video.
It's very interesting considering what he said about
subjectivity of good old Joseph.
So Godelp is an acronym, right?
Yes, game developers essentials lessons book.
That's the one.
Oh, I was putting the E in the wrong place.
That's probably why actually wait.
I see you saying good lab.
I was a get get to live.
Giddle with all the get a lip.
Yes in old country.
We call it the get limp.
So efap mini.
It's an efap mini.
Is that right?
It is or nope.
No, no, no, no, that's us watching it.
Yeah.
Oh, just you just want me to see the the the actual video.
I'm trying to the thumbnail has Trump in it.
Oh, we're just not we're not just Lincoln and we could have
just linked it by that.
I got it.
I got it.
I got it.
I got it.
All right.
Well, you should go watch that and then tweet at me what
you thought of it.
Once you finish it will do will do.
It's a how 22, right?
You'll and just watch the video.
It's it's peak video essay content.
Okay.
It is what every video.
Is this the one that's basically just complete nonsense because
I think there was something I don't know what you mean.
I know it's pure genius.
It makes total sense to me.
I watch video essays and I would like several intertwining
narratives and I think I started watching this because I actually
had like like it started me at the 135 mark.
I think I started watching this and I'm like this is pure
insanity and I had other things to take care of so I may not
finish it, but I'll go watch this when I get out of here.
Well, I was gonna say is there anything else you wanted to
talk about?
I'm not super sure.
I mean, I would love to come back on but that's my own,
you know, narcissism speaking.
I don't want to assume anything should probably we could
probably have him on when we respond to Fatty boys.
Oh, yeah, you totally totally.
I make this video.
I will have you on as a guest.
Yeah, I would appreciate that because I would try to be
because I kind of feel like fat man would be he does complain
like you bring people on your show and then you gang up on
him or a gang up on them and I've seen that once or twice
but like unintentionally it just happens when you're in
a bigger group that you like all start talking over each
other.
Yeah, that's the thing.
It's like it's not like we summon more numbers or anything
like that.
That's just the main three hosts are mauler wolf and regs.
So it's like yeah, there's going to be three people.
You can't expect them to just step out every time there's
a debate.
I mean, come on, that's not fair.
Besides if you're arguing two plus two is four against a
bunch of people saying two plus two is five.
It doesn't matter how many there are.
Yeah, it's true.
Yeah, but I you know, if I were to be brought on at that
same time to be as someone kind of in his corner for the for
the duration of that just to kind of feel like he has more
of a fighting chance if he feels outnumbered, I think that
would probably be conducive to in some way shape or form.
Yeah, there you go.
Or at least at least trying to maybe like parse out what
he's thinking and eloquent to you guys because that's one
thing that does frustrate me about efap is like there are
people that make argue you guys sometimes do it.
You guys are better at eloquating your points, but
there are some people that get on here and I understand
what they're trying to say to you guys, but they are like
saying it in the most ass backward way possible and I'm
like, no, if you just I have an English degree.
So I'm just like, okay, if you just calm down and think
about what you're saying there are easily defined terms
you can use to eloquent your point.
I was 15.
That was one of them.
But yes, if I could just you know, throw a quick plug-in
for my channel and ask one question of you, Muller, because
this is this is an important one.
So first plug my channel.
Anyone wants to check it out, Celtic Phoenix Productions.
I do a whole mishmash of things.
The most prevalent are the reactions on there.
We do a lot of random things we do.
We're doing Dr.
Stone and DBZ abridged right now, which you probably just
saw a bit of one of those videos.
But most that the big draw my channel is a lot of different
reviews the complete breakdown series.
Please please watch the complete breakdown series.
I put a lot of time and effort into those.
And yeah, and my Ruby videos.
Those are my biggest draws.
So if you guys are interested in that please check out
Celtic Phoenix Productions and now Muller.
I am currently in league with a friend of mine writing in
a bridge for Godzilla 2014.
And there is a very small part that I wanted to have with
both you and Fat Man to kind of poke fun at this whole
situation.
Fat Man has agreed.
Would you be up for that?
It's very small.
It would not take very long to record.
I promise you that.
So you want me to record like dialogue.
Yes, just very brief.
There's probably going to be 15 lines subtle.
The script's not finished yet, but when it is I will let
you know.
I mean, I'll say tacitly.
Yes.
It just depends on what it is.
Right.
Because like a lot if I agreed that you had me read out.
I'm an idiot.
I'm so stupid.
I'd be like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
It's literally it's just a complete lampoon on the fact
that you're both kind of like on the polar side of the
argument.
It's just you two bitching at each other.
It's great.
All right.
Well, I'll say yes for now then.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I'm fine with that.
I just want to think.
Oh, this is this has been a surprise of a day.
So
I have fun.
So yes.
I have fun.
I'm sorry.
I've been so giddy.
I'm normally a little more relaxed.
I'm just nervous because it's all good man.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you for having me on guys.
It has been a pleasure and I hope to talk with you guys
again.
Good times.
See you next time.
Yeah.
Thanks.
On the flip side.
And then there was full.
I can count that far.
We get semen on next.
Wait, who's semen?
Just coming in.
So yeah, anyway, I guess we'll have to see how that goes
with with fat man and the progress of whatever is happening
there.
Exactly.
I wish him all the best.
Well, have you updated the stream title by the way?
No, no, I'll do it once it gets on moolah.
I'm doing it right now.
What am I crazy person?
Oh, Jay, it's gonna be live for like few hours.
God forbid people miss that.
Oh, no.
Calm down.
It'll be on moolah.
I refuse.
I know you refuse.
I am I am I'm outraged at the lack of agreement.
You're not putting down agreements.
So I'm just objective.
You're lifting your agreements from the table.
How could you?
You don't sound very heavy-handed.
So I want to bring up something pretty funny.
Someone who's a fan of efap.
I guess screenshotted us looking at the trailer for Dear
Wars the new thing and then posted it into movie circle
jixing getting mad at a two-minute special.
Look is mostly just footage from previous films for half
an hour.
Shake my head and then like all the comments are jumping
on the fact.
It's like, yeah, stupid idiot.
They're like this one right at the Bob that says you guys
are taking the bait.
Yeah, I thought it was funny.
They posted it to my subreddit like I got him.
It's like, yeah, it's a fun way to play with movies.
So if more people started doing this than the the subreddit
would actually be an ironic circle.
Yeah, yeah, we'd fix it.
It would be fixed again.
I wouldn't I wouldn't normally say this but do this.
It's funny.
I love how someone was like, that's remarkably restrained
for them.
I got sent this and I thought it was amusing.
It's we'll watch a bit of it just because it's it's novel.
But the guy showing his friend Goodell, but not letting him
know it's nonsense.
Let me just load it up.
This is fast around discord.
I don't know how I found this.
I just made a note to show it.
Go from like, I don't know, six.
Believe me, you wouldn't want that if you understood what
it meant and that's the great Bilbo Baggins.
One set area like bread spread across too much butter.
But today's face what I've never spread my my bread across
butter. I never spread my mind.
I'm picking somebody with some bread and they open up the
butter.
But they just spread site.
They just rub their bread.
So what do you say?
The way in which it has changed our streamlining of interface
iteration or soft blanking.
That is a more archaic programming term.
And if you are one of the people who are aware of it, then
perhaps you should read these games that he's showing and
then write the names of them.
They're not aligning.
Like our criticisms of video essays are going to be normal
people's approach with like Gedel because they'll notice.
They'll actually notice all of the stupid shit because it's
hard not to notice.
And I guess I'm making a mistake here and I'm almost baiting
people into making recordings of Gedel as if they've never
heard of it before.
I mean, I love the idea of you recording your friend reacting
to Gedel without knowing it's not real.
But as much as that's cool, I have a feeling that people will
want to fake it in order to have it shown on eBay.
So you don't need to fake that.
Just have a friend.
Well, the thing is, Gedel is so stupid that if in the first
seconds they go, this isn't real, it kind of ruins it, right?
It's like, oh, yeah, you got to hope that they because for
some reason this guy made it this far.
Oh, this just reminds me, I was a good friend of mine over
the weekend and we were drinking and I told her about what
we're doing on this podcast thingy and then I showed her
like the beginning of the movie about video we watched.
Of what she said.
I was like, okay, calm down.
This is gonna be very fast.
It's like, stop it.
I don't understand what he's saying.
He has a large audience that very much enjoy his video.
I don't know what to say.
I just found that very amusing.
Yeah, I don't know.
I thought that was funny.
Another thing that I guess we should mention on eFap itself.
We covered a video from Brown table called what makes good
art slash film.
Red, red.
A lot of great memes came out of that one.
Oh, the video is gone.
He took it down.
What?
Very sad.
So he knows then.
Well, it's either a huge coincidence or he's aware of eFap.
Hello, Brown table.
Brown table.
If you ever hear this, I would love for you to guess on the
show and explain to me what good rat is.
And ironically though, I hope you didn't take it down because
you felt you were getting too many negative comments or something
and that you just thought that maybe it wasn't a great video
because it's it was pretty funny.
But yeah, I was sad to see that.
The only way to consume that video now is through us on eFap
because I don't know if anyone downloaded it or anything,
but is it down or unlisted?
That's another question.
I don't know the answer to I didn't have a link to the video
anymore.
Anyway, so maybe it's still somewhere in someone's history.
If someone can find the unlisted version, you should download
it and re-upload it as a archive of Brown table.
And in other news, TRO has unlisted his rags video.
I asked that he would because of he made a tweet saying like
he was going to unlist his pro Jared one because he felt like
there are a couple things were inaccurate in it in terms of
the full scale of the story and I was just like the rags
video was pretty bad.
Like there was a lot of shit in there that was not accurate
and there's a lot of comments that are very heavily focused
on let's just be charitable and say negativity towards rags
and I felt like the video is a lightning rod for people who
don't like rags and it's not really fair because the video
is a very poor representation of let's just say rags approach
especially like with what Quinton says and that's something
that I did concede on that it's the Quinton stuff was the
worst stuff that TRO may have made mistakes, but you know,
it's it's Quinton's parts that are the worst.
But either way he agreed to unlist it which thank you very
much appreciate that.
Good luck to the future.
Whatever you may endeavor with and then this was this was
made aware of I know that you've seen this before Jay.
Of course you have because it's amusing.
I had to show this on on the fab because if I didn't I'd not
be doing my job correctly.
Yes, this copy paste.
So you got I don't know what this was do you know what subreddit
this is from?
I can check hang on.
I don't know.
I can find the link because while you figure that out you
got a poster says who the hell is rags and why do all this
game?
Why do all of this gamers?
TM think that's something meaningful to say about social
issues and then there's a response that says best known
for his response to I hate everything and being a co-worker
of cinema sin slash Jaxi.
The fuck up is he's not a co-worker.
He works under cinema.
He is being managed by Jaxi.
I manage him.
Yeah, he is my underling but I love the idea that that's
how rags is known.
Rags claim to fame is knowing me.
Although wait what you say about I said you showed me this
but it's wrong.
I saw it on Twitter and I tweeted below it and was asking
Jay he's still hiring.
Yeah, since it says stupid throwbot.
There's a good chance.
This could be like a troll but I like to believe it's real
believe that it's a troll but you know anything could be real
on the internet.
I wanted to be real.
That's all that matters.
But yeah, and then there's a few more things we could do.
I had a whole long article thing to look through.
I had a video to potentially cover and then I had a whole
section of memes.
We're not going to do any of that.
I'm going to skip right over to super chats because four
and a half hours already nearly so.
Out time flies.
The fat man video and the hella weirdo ones man.
It is on r slash enlightened centrism enlightened centrism.
All right.
If there was one way to describe rags.
Let me find the full post here.
It is.
Do you feel?
Yeah, I think people are putting rags in there because he's
like I'm a centrist.
I mean, I can't even remember rags claims.
I think the thing they're showing is him like disavowing
loads of different extremist ideologies.
Oh, okay.
So like he disavows everything authoritarian.
So he's Elis and Tifa Nazism.
Wow.
And the title says Boogie is often talked about.
But what about rags?
I guess is Boogie a hashtag enlightened centrist?
Oh, I think he claims to be a centrist.
I think he's been he's been getting in those trouble lately.
I think he's back on Twitter now though.
Good old boogie.
I hope he he's finding whatever PC can find.
You know about the latest quote from him, right?
Jay?
No, I don't pay attention to him.
Well, he really doesn't like it.
But internet trolls try and ruin people's lives, right?
Or that they they relish the idea of canceling and ruining
people's lives, which is understandable thing not to like.
Yeah.
And he goes on to say that these people are like the worst.
They're like soulless.
They're like terrible because they just fucked up and blah blah
and then you move he's clearly upset and he moves on to say
that they're worse than Nazis and rapists because at least Nazis
and rapists believe in something.
There we go.
What do rapists believe in rape?
What I believe what do they believe in seriously?
What is that?
What is that called belief?
I want to put my dick in this.
I don't know what he regrets saying it.
So I would regret saying that as well.
Yes.
Not something one would like to have be a thing that's that's
connected to them forever.
But yeah, he got he basically got challenged on that and you
left Twitter for a week.
I think or left the Internet for a week.
Agree that he got challenged.
Yeah, well, you know some people that we had people I guess
they're like that's a that's a strange thing to say.
And it just didn't look great.
It didn't look great.
That's there you go.
That's my controversial heart.
Take on that whole situation.
But it is.
Wonderful stuff regardless.
He has such a long history of things such crazy ish things
that are just so we start please.
That's a lot of words for a person of weight.
Get some winded more.
Are you not allowed to say as much if you're a fatman?
No.
All right.
Well, either way, I'm going to start trying to read two chats
and I can't tell exactly where I left off or where I was cut
off from the last episode at the end if I remember correctly.
I want to find because I end on saying something weird about
like Jay and rags don't I'm trying to find.
Yeah, but that could be like any number of things you're saying
that is true.
Good way to do this.
I'm going to I'm going to draw it back to to a while and just
see if there's any I recognize less.
All right.
All right.
I'll start with this one.
I want to be the last one to super chat.
That's a pretty good place to go from a lot of these.
I'm going to say them and you're going to be sitting there
like well, is that a super chat?
I'll be like, yeah, it is.
So no too bad.
Well, the no was in response to the last the person wanting
to be the last person.
Well, yeah, no, that does make sense.
Yeah.
If someone says high rags one more time, I swear probably
if at 51 by now, but hello, everyone.
Hey.
Hi.
Well, I hope people stop sending super chats.
You can go to sleep.
Oh wait.
Sorry.
I get it.
That's a funny meme.
Are we still in the middle or is this the end?
I get it because the middle is better.
It was still the middle until it ended.
What was the epilogue?
Everyone stop sending super chats.
I'm serious.
Stop it.
I was three super chats in a row.
I'm not writing a book.
I'm writing a musical based on Dragon Ball.
All right.
What was rags is book.
So rags was memeing.
Well, the meme is the wolf has books.
People say, hey, well rags love the books and rags releases
a video and like, I'm all of the released video and then
some people got assumed that rags was actually releasing
a book and they were like, what's the name of the book?
And we're going to buy it.
I was like, no, rags didn't write a book.
I'm ashamed to admit that I was one of those people in the
well, yeah, because it's very believable.
If you just, if I just rattle it out, I have a book people
be like, oh shit, do you like, oh, well, no, it's me, but
it's hard to tell the difference sometimes, you know,
yes, Mola, you make me produce happy milk.
Oh.
All the chessboard.
Ifep reads mundane maths, terrible internet book.
I, I think people did request that we read his advice on
how to become successful in social media.
Because I mean, that book must be full of such wonderful
golden nuggets.
I don't know.
It could be fun.
This is how a long man becomes an old man reading super
chats.
Go get some sleep.
Anyway, guys, you're all massive heroes for going the
distance.
Well, thank you.
Also an over and under is basically a double barrel shotgun
with a barrel sit on top of each other instead of side by
side.
Oh, we did.
Yeah, we were talking about
shotguns.
I remember that's interesting.
Now, why are you guys still streaming?
Ifep 51 is coming out, it's out.
Also, what did you say, Jay?
No, it was me.
I was.
I got lost a little bit there about about gun there being
double barrel shotguns top.
And it top instead of
I thought they're I thought they're already war shotguns
that are like top instead of sideways is or is that not
the argument?
Yeah, no, they're saying the over and under shotguns are
the ones that have barrels that go above and below instead
of side by side.
I believe you have one of the Olympia.
It's the gun you have is default in black ops zombies.
Yeah, I think so.
Hmm.
Can you guys last this long in everything you do?
I don't think so.
And then there's one that says um, a braco, brassiliero,
bratodos, sus, massivos,
esta,
he had questa 28 or us.
That's probably reference to the hours.
Any tips for writers wanting to do audio clips of his
short stories?
I don't know how to answer that question.
Tips for a writer wanting to do audio clips of his short
stories.
You mean in the process of recording them?
Tips for a writer I guess.
I don't know if they're asking for tips on recording them
or tips on writing them.
And
the way
that people say a sub and diva sub of Goliath.
Yeah, I don't know when it comes to recording that one
takes severe practice.
And I guess the same applies to writing as well.
I don't really have advice for short stories or um, the
recording of them.
That's any specific beyond
practice makes perfect.
Keep trying that whole spiel.
Use this to bike Republic commando on GOG.
I'm pretty sure I have that on Steam.
Think is it on Steam if it's on Steam I have it.
What game?
No one's ever really got the rise of Shrek.
Republic commando.
Oh, that's on Steam.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure I have it.
I don't know.
I played it.
Also, I just saw a friend from the efap website just said
last super chat started with a massive not efap massive
with a link to the missing minutes.
Well, that was the one that was last one that was red.
Apparently, yes.
Are they 100% sure?
Like I said, I could have sworn the last one I read that
gets cut off in the latest episode was me saying something
about Jay and Rags.
I mean, he gave a link.
Why not put the last episode in the watch together and
skip to the end of it?
Oh, was it recorded?
Apparently.
Wow.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, I guess that makes sense.
I should have thought that someone might have been recording
it live.
I mean, as long as I'm on point right now with what I'm doing,
I don't really mind continuing with the ones that currently
reading out, you know.
Yeah, no, just want to throw that along.
Thank you.
Obviously for that.
Yes.
Yes.
Hello, my melodorous leg joint tumors campier Baggins.
I don't know if there's something campier would say.
I mean, but I think I know what you're referencing.
Watch Watchman.
If you're too lazy to read the comic, I've seen Watchman.
I do want to read the comic though, because everyone said,
well, anyone who you talk to the comic is the worst thing
and the best thing.
No, it's better.
Yeah, most people say it's better.
A couple of people still say that the adaptation is strong,
but most I've heard say it's not faithful.
No, it's really not faithful.
Oh, that's just your opinion.
I've read something I get to I get to be an authority.
Yes.
It's like like hitchhiker's guide of the galaxy.
H.L.
Geiger's guide to the galaxy.
Hubel-dubel.
Slasy, but fast.
I wouldn't want to go with H.L.
Geiger's guide to the galaxy is going to be a creepy sexual
book.
Yeah.
At least you believe something.
I'm I'm so proud of this toxic brood.
Also high rags.
You need someone else to say I was going to say I was waiting
for someone else to do it.
Okay.
Hi stream.
Hello.
Hello.
I'd say Ahsoka for the sex question.
Is that odd?
I don't remember the sex question, but the sex question
was if you could have sex with anyone in the Star Wars
universe.
So who would it be?
I think.
Oh, of course.
Maybe Palpatine wouldn't everyone's answer be Palpatine.
Who is better superman superhero movie or Captain Marvel?
Oh, I remember reading that one.
I'm pretty sure and I said that it had to be superhero movie
because like nothing is worse than Captain Marvel.
That's a fair right.
Mola, when the superchats for the 50th are done, could you
tell us how much money was donated for the whole stream?
I'm genuinely curious.
I'd have to check and that means I have to go through all
the bullshit with the stupid jumping between analytics right
now.
Have you figured out how to make that permanent yet jail?
You still have to fiddle with it.
No, literally when I want to search for a keyword in my
comments, it takes me to the new one.
Yeah, it's frustrating to tell and I don't want to use the
new one without the fucking search.
New one sucks.
Why do they keep force?
It's not even complete yet.
There's so many features that are missing.
And then I get the sinking feeling that they're not going
to be put in.
Yeah, they'll just be like, you don't need them.
Fuck off.
I mean, I just started to fiddle around with that shit and
I was just confused that I'm using a beta thing.
Like immediately, it's like you're using a beta thing.
Yeah, don't get used to the old system.
I'm going to take it away from you in a few.
I haven't.
I don't even know the old one.
I'm just confused that I'm using something that says beta
all the time.
I was like, don't give me a beta.
Yeah, kind of like the idea.
You're like, hasn't YouTube been around for like 11 years?
Exactly.
It's like, what?
The one good part of it, actually, there are two good
parts of it.
It's pretty good at telling you about your revenue and the
little thing at the.
On the dashboard where it tells you how your video is
That's good.
No, they're definitely good.
Rest of the shit.
Rest of the shit.
The comments page feels worse.
And you get neon or geeky from clownfish TV on we're open
to all guests pretty much.
I don't know who they are, but if they're interested, we
could sort something out.
Get trig on.
Read tokens on fairy stories.
It'll make you hate Game of Thrones ending even more with
D&D's pretentious meta crap about stories, especially
since Martin is, in my opinion, the anti-token.
Fair enough.
I made it for the end.
Take my shekels.
Thank you.
I hate Jay.
Also.
Hi, Jay.
Hi.
Thank you all my neighbors.
Y'all need to go to sleep.
What's my name?
Heartfall or we kill Jay.
We would have done that anyway, though.
Too short.
I reserved lifelong holidays in Siberia for riot.
Okay.
50 hours.
That's it.
Are you fucking kidding me?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Cracking a cold one for the end.
Be proud.
E-fappers activate maximum overlong you Massives.
We're getting to the other one.
Massive.
Thanks to you all for E-fap 50.
Praise Don.
Also high rag.
Hello.
Raising a glass of Rhino milk to the massive King.
Congrats on 50 faps.
Battery on 1% yeet.
If asthma is referenced in episode 9, is she still technically in it?
If she doesn't respawn, isn't it inconsistent as fuck?
But anyway, guys, hi all my neighbors.
She if I'm sure they will bed should her baby.
They might have a throwaway line, but pretty sure she's not in it.
I remember Gwendolyn Christie's not in it.
I don't know.
He should respawn though.
She's done it twice.
No once.
Yeah, she's respawned once.
Because we she was supposed to be in the trash compactor when the entire space station exploded.
So.
Wait.
People who don't watch E-fap for multiple days need to be rolled up into a rug and thrown off a rooftop.
Also, fuck you Quinton, Patrick, Ro, J.A.
and I miss Jared.
No, Zach Gilbert actually.
What?
The next one is from Ra.
Bada bing bada boom.
I like throwing people off a roofs.
Try to be the last super chat, but probably failed at that.
I love your content.
You're all great.
Thanks for the E-faps.
Here's to 50 more.
Thank you, Noah.
Part four.
Here we come.
No, no, you won't make it.
Muahaha.
Congrats on the 50th again and good night.
Keepo C.
Kyle.
Last higher eggs.
Hello.
You've helped us all a lot.
Here's to part four.
Good night.
Nice try fags.
I'm last.
This is the last super chat.
First long man bad.
Last super chat.
Everyone involved in this 24-hour E-fap is a goddamn savage.
You all rock.
I'm so proud of this community.
We still got a few left.
So everybody was predicting the end well before.
Well, not well before.
We got like 10.
And thus concludes E-fap 50.
Can you kick Jay now?
Was that Christina?
No, that was Salad King.
Read Byzantium stuff.
Byzantium?
Mine last gay.
Me it's me.
Fuck off.
7-11 and 9-11.
This will never end.
Last mine.
Last super chat.
Say my name.
Hour 29 of question mark.
Billion last.
No, it's me.
You all gay.
Look at this shit.
No, it's me.
You all gay.
BBB.
Last.
Bye bye bye.
Last.
Poop.
Kedis.
This is amazing.
Oh, there we go.
I've done it.
That's the end.
And I wish I could make money that easily.
Yeah, I would I would actually say Rah you made it up with the last one with mind mind mind.
Congratulations.
Good job.
According to YouTube.
That was the last one E-fap 50 got.
Things you can leave super chats after a stream ends.
I know this to be.
I know that's what I mean like by the statement of YouTube.
He is the last one from E-fap 50 the rest come into the next stream then.
Not bad at all.
So yeah, now I can begin E-fap 51's ones.
Hooray.
Hey, four hours later.
Hello long man.
Glad to see you streaming games again.
Sadly working today.
But I look forward to watching this later.
Also.
Hi Rags.
That was right.
I stream the shadow of the colosos.
A shit's a good game.
I remember I was there.
You were there.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Massives.
Hello.
Hello.
Good evening.
People's life is a treasure.
Good evening.
Debatable.
I've been away for what feels like forever.
Nice to catch this one live.
Love all you guys.
We love you too.
Adam Gardiner.
Same say say hi to Adam everyone.
Hi.
Wow.
Did you just doxed him?
What the fuck?
Oh fuck.
Let me tongue punch the fart box objectively.
Fart box.
Is that a Pumbas party reference?
Oh, yeah, it could be.
Damn.
Poop.
All right.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Welcome back boys.
First live Efap since catching up on the backlog.
Just in time to catch 50.
Also.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Glad you masses are back.
Love the Game of Thrones video more.
Jay, you're not going to like what happens to you and Efap the movie.
Yeah, we're going to delay memes, I'm afraid, but we'll get there.
Welcome back my toxic n-words.
You fill my cold heart with habitisms.
Torch and Scorch.
I was rewatching episode 36 and as you were talking about Game of Thrones episode 5 review,
it hit YouTube.
Clearly the cosmic chicken was smiling on me.
Praise be to the dawn.
Yeah, that must have been deliberate and if there's any more proof required for the cosmic chicken,
I don't really understand what proof even beams at that point.
Have you been talking about making that video since Efap 36?
Oh, I would assume it's even earlier than that.
It took a while.
Fucking hell.
Rags, tell us more about how you conquered your teacher.
Oh, we tried to push him on it and he didn't give us much.
Yeah.
Geode.
Yay.
I challenge you to make TLJ an unbridled praise.
No.
Not accepted.
Hey Jay.
Then he would become dishonest.
We can't have that.
Hey Jay, it was cool seeing you at the mall yesterday.
Kind of weird when you ran up and slapped my ass and called me Cream Daddy Sheev though.
I don't think, well, that's not weird for me.
You just don't know me very well.
I say, why is that weird?
Yeah, sounds like a normal greeting.
Sounds like you've just been living in a basement too long.
Sounds like you're just subjective.
Like you are a subjective human being.
You mean that's weird subjectively, right?
No, I meant that.
Technically.
The new one I'm trying.
I agree.
Technically.
That's the one.
That basically means it's caught between the realms of subjective and objective.
Technically.
Technically.
Technically.
I'm not even done with your 24-hour special yet.
Here's to another 50 excellent episodes of eFap.
Thank you.
I win Lannister, the ultimate massive.
I mean, yeah, it's pretty much in law now.
He's the next homo.
Government brown table so we can see more artificial barrier bars of screen blockage.
Oh, yeah.
He was, he did that.
That was great.
We probably will.
I'm pretty sure we have at least one more brown table in my in my backlog that we want to go through.
He's great.
Nice.
Not sure actually.
I have to check but yeah, brown table is great.
I can't wait for him to release more videos.
Do you know of Ryan Hollinger?
What do you think?
Know that name?
No, come again.
Probably why am I even asking?
I don't know.
Ryan Hollinger.
Yeah, no.
I do not know that name myself or if I have ever heard it.
I don't remember.
Morning boys.
Love the vid molar and all y'all stuff.
Oh, yeah, I guess I should say like I did release a video.
So for those who only watch efap, if there's any of you out there who are like does molar make videos I do and I did.
There's a new one.
So the end of the line now until another.
Yeah, it just writes on every time he talks Theo beat boxes.
Going to see a Theo on more maybe as another co-host also Ryan slash Joseph interview thoughts.
It's never going to happen.
And as for another co-host like I don't think that we're going to do like a third co-host.
We kind of intend Wolf to come back one day or at least I will be the hope.
So until that time we get to have double guests means infinite possibilities and combinations.
Two four six eight.
Hello rags.
Hello and kick Jay.
Bye also.
Hi Jay.
Hi like you don't really say that to me after having said the other thing but it was a that was a layered layered one.
It was a rollercoaster of a man.
So if I was supposed to be kicked by that point, does that mean other people?
Yes, other people would have had to have account for you being Jay unless we had a second guest here is also called Jay.
She is like Jay Longburn.
Oh, there you go.
Haha pee pee poo poo much gay.
You have Jay Yoda.
Yoda, I don't really Yoda saying that but I mean that's comedy that is comedy.
Um, that's inspirational.
Pit Khan.
Yes, you know, Anna Savik you know made on Nola Kasani see copy and paste it into your review.
Have you seen the Firefly movie serenity thoughts?
Yes.
I like it.
Anyone else on it?
No, no, I haven't.
I've deliberately not watch Firefly because I've heard it stops unsatisfyingly.
But I mean, yeah, I would I would rather something watch something that I've been told stops in a satisfying way than something I know is going to leave me wanting more.
Anyways, got a gooey still on efap 41 how to catch up.
Love the Game of Thrones video molester if you're a sentient item of food, which one would you be?
Milk no, that's not food.
That's drink cheese.
What about cream is that in the realm between food and drink?
I think you could could you drink cream?
I think you could.
But then if you mash vegetables up enough, you can eventually drink them, but or if they're still in smaller cubes of food, everything is a drink.
Everything is a drink.
Someone just paid you five dollars to say, Jay, do you have girly peen?
Oh, sorry, a girly peen.
Answer the man.
Yes, I keep it on my shelf.
Nice.
You take care of that girly peen, brother.
Exactly.
Thank you.
Missed all you Massives.
Oh, welcome back.
Australia is as real as the season of autumn.
I'm pretty sure autumn was invented as a conspiracy to protect the volcano's involvement in night.
Yes, I was supposed to say that.
I mean, we're not supposed to say the true facts of life.
Is that what you're saying?
Yes.
Memento update all up to date apart from the start of the cosmic chicken that is on Jay's channel, and I won't give that massive of you also hydrating.
Also, there's a there's a version of that video on so.
Yeah, I don't know.
I guess they meant I'm like, oh, if you don't want to give me views, you don't have to you can go and get the concert somewhere else.
I mean, he also said hi, Jay.
So I'm pretty sure he's he's he's cool with you.
I just don't give you a view.
He'll give you several views, just not one.
Okay.
Unacceptable.
I want to make a live action.
If that meme, it will be more wolf and rags having a sword fight versus someone.
I need to know who you will fight.
There's a lot of selection.
Quinton.
Probably Quentin.
Yeah, that's a good choice.
Good old Quentin.
If up on my birthday, perfect.
Mola, your Game of Thrones season eight episode five rage was simply incredible work.
I thank you, Justin.
Dear Efap, which curse is worse?
Being unable to understand or appreciate objective critique or being unable to look past objective flaws in an order to enjoy a bad movie.
From Mr.
Massive.
It's better to be able to look past flaws to enjoy something because then you're happier.
I was going to say if you went from the perspective of being here, you're probably going to prefer the latter.
I mean, yeah, fair the ability to be happy is a good thing.
Yep, except people who are too happy and their happiness is sadness.
Oh, poor them.
It went like, you know, how you fill a gauge.
It goes from zero to 100.
They clipped over 100 back into zero.
They were like, oh.
Well, that works as clients.
Mola, we're in episode six rage, but seriously, your episode five video was amazing.
Thank you for all the hard work.
Also, Danny kind of forgot.
Yeah, and episode six rage.
I'm not promising anything.
I'm not even going to tell you guys if I start working on it.
No, I'm not making anything ever.
That's just nothing that I do.
And then I can just drop videos and you'd be like, ooh, it should be much easier to do episode six.
They're right.
Because nothing happens.
The thing is, if I tell people I'm working on stuff, they start like being like, oh, he's lying.
Episode six, non-bridled rage, and it's a black screen for two hours.
I think they'd be happy.
You can just fill the time with boring, boring, boring, boring.
Fuck this.
They could interpret it.
Metal Gear Solid 5.
That's that's just that's it.
Okay.
Yeah, I agree.
Is it good?
It sucks.
But does anyone play that for a second?
I thought, yeah, he met us.
I mean, as a game, MGS 5 is okay, but as a story, it's horrible.
Like Konami ruined the whole damn thing.
I don't remember shit about the story.
I take issue with that.
I take issue with it.
It says, Jay, do you want some girly-peen?
He clearly said he has some on his shelf.
Sorry.
I could always have more.
If you want girly-peen, you still have girly-peen.
So you're wanting more girly-peen, not some girly-peen.
Are they referring to like, lady boy penis?
I don't know, Jay.
It's terrifying.
Because I have enough.
I don't I don't need more.
I'm fine.
Thanks.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
You all are slow.
So I had a dream where you f'ed me.
It says f'ed with me with my massive with your massive dong.
It was a good dream overall.
No.
Named our new guinea pig Bilbo Beghidius Baggins.
In efav honor.
After that, he almost bit my nipple off.
That's natural.
That's just a sitting dominance.
You have to you have to quell that early on.
I didn't know you're in charge.
Um.
Well, Houston Productions tweet about you.
Love that he blocked you like a coward and the lack of self-awareness with his dying such inconsistent channel.
Just in there are like no YouTubers that won't take a shot of me on Twitter.
And they think for some reason that if I'm blocked, I won't see it or he'd be able to respond to it.
All I have to do is quote.
I was so angry when I saw that.
I really was.
Really why?
The fact that he blocked me you mean?
Because he was not even mentioning you personally.
And then it was like, oh, I got that one blocked that legend of just shut the fuck up.
You fucking cowards.
Seriously.
Fuck him.
Whoever that is.
I don't even know what it is.
But fuck you.
Seriously.
Are they pissed off metal?
It's fucking tired.
I've never seen you have an emotion before.
Explain it man.
Which one was that so we can categorize it?
Emotion that was happy.
That was sober metal.
The worst kind of metal.
How much metal exactly do you command?
All of it.
Except a girly peen.
Except a girly peen once.
Well, those aren't made of metal.
Yeah, those are yours.
Yeah, they are.
Okay.
Shut angry German.
Just because it's long doesn't mean it's long.
Bilbogus, Grota Wobble.
Have you guys heard of macabre storytelling?
A YouTuber who's rewriting the character ox for Game of Thrones character since season 8?
I highly recommend him.
I have not heard of it and I wish the best of luck to the man.
How much rags does it have?
What do you guys what am I supposed to do with that?
79 kilograms of rag.
Seven out of three.
What did he say?
The fraction?
Oh seven out of three.
That was I said that and then he repeated it.
He was so drunk from three.
Give me credit for the wrong fraction.
Like we need to whenever if I ever get to hang out with him in real life and be like, please drink three beers.
He'd be like, I'm happy with one and they're like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
There was the time.
There was the time like the moment where he was just like, no one was saying anything and he just went fishy, fishy, fishy, fish.
I don't know.
You could probably make a compilation.
He was out of his mind at the end of the 50th.
Oh, please someone make that compilation and send it to me.
Please.
EC is a ripoff of Android.
Nailed it.
Hashtag.
What is this?
Hashtag Jim Sterling's left tit.
All right.
Okay.
I can be trending on Twitter.
Here's a joke for the potential plot leaks for episode 9.
Han appears as a forced ghost.
Unconfused.
That's not how the force works.
Uninstantly vanishes.
I mean, if he appears, he's probably just going to like smile and there'll be some stock footage from the previous film.
Prepare for the worst, gentlemen.
Prepare.
Oh, I'm ready.
Oh, yeah.
Solid recommendation for it.
Chapter two.
If you haven't seen it yet, go see it.
You're massive.
Is it out?
Yes.
Yes.
I intended to see it on Thursday and then Friday and then Saturday and then not today.
I'm sure I'll see it probably not at all at this point.
As someone who has no connection to it at all, which is me.
Should I watch those movies at all?
Yeah, they're really good.
I mean, well, the first one.
I mean, they'll just wait until they come out and then we'll watch it by a non-cinema.
Jay, you live like a few walk like a mile away from me.
Do you want to go see it?
Sure.
Right.
You walked to my cinema.
Okay.
Right.
This is my first ever super chat.
What a waste.
Don't lie to me.
His first super chat wasn't that one.
It was Jim Stilling's left hit.
That's the same profile.
I mean, maybe that's the one they're referring to.
That wasn't a waste.
What do you mean?
That was beautiful.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Sorry, I was reading something.
It was on point.
Damn it.
Here, go buy a million star destroyers with 199.
I don't know.
It probably cost a little bit more than that, especially because they have, what is it?
Like a hundred thousand people on them or whatever.
Something more than that.
Less than that.
I can't remember.
Hello guys.
Mola.
How you pronounce the Latin part in my name is Edelone.
A.
Devakway.
Devakay.
Mark.
Edelone.
Devakay.
Mark.
Edelone.
Devakay.
Okay.
Also, would you guys, who would you guys throw off a building?
Raw.
Bad in the form of a man.
When he dies from the fall, we no longer have bad.
Oh, that's genius.
Damn.
Devakay.
Devakay.
I don't know what that means.
Thing in chat.
Devak.
What do you guys reckon?
You guys know Latin.
I don't.
I don't speak dead languages.
Devarnud.
All right.
Jay, Shag, Marry, Kill, Mola, Metal, Rags.
Yes.
Answer.
Shag, Metal, Kill, Mola, Marry, Rags.
What the fuck?
What did I say?
Killed me.
Why did you kill?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Well, I have to kill someone.
I was about to say, you're not sorry because you did it.
You did it on purpose.
I hate you.
It has already been done.
Rags is the greatest critic because he lost his sight yet.
He can still see the movie spiritually and give accurate criticism.
Thanks to Rhino Milk.
Wow.
Is that Rags backstory?
Sorry.
If this is a stupid question, but I was wondering if you could explain
why the higher frame rate of a game the better yet more than 24 FPS in
film, like the Hobbit hits my brain.
Oh, you look for YouTube videos that explain that it's a complicated
subject, but it's complicated as hell.
And I wish I could describe it, but we could totally give a shot
if we were here for a long time.
But when there's not much point, just look for YouTube videos that
break it down that are highly rated and you'll get your answers.
So the Hobbit was too high frame rate though.
It was 60, I believe, or at least it was like 44 or 48 or something.
It was just really weird.
Well, like I'll give you a short answer.
The reason that 60 is better on video games is because it's easier to
react to things on the screen where there's way more frames to see on
the screen.
Plus it also affects your input.
So even a little bit easier too, because of 30 you're going to have
a more delayed input than you all at 60.
That's the shorter.
That's the long and short of it.
But why is it bad for movies?
Because we're not because you're not like putting inputs into a
movie.
It's not interactive.
I like seeing high frame rates on movies.
Do you?
Yes.
What's your reference?
When I've seen high frame rates in movies.
I'm like, hey, that looks smooth.
It looks like well with with high with high frame rate in like just
watchable medium.
It seems kind of like a I don't know like a like a documentary.
And then not even really a documentary, but like a sitcom more like
it's okay.
Jay go look at YouTube videos that tell you to change your opinions.
Oh, I only just finished watching the 50th.
Y'all be crazy.
Also.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Oh, hello.
Most people don't know what an efap is.
Also.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Have any of you played the game Tangledeep?
If not, you really should.
It's the most fun I've had with the game in years.
Also.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
I've not heard of Tangledeep.
I'm afraid.
Me neither.
Hack fraud media as a guest.
Well, yeah, we could probably do that.
I wonder if you'd put on the voice or not against that.
Yeah.
Hey guys opinions on the TPP stuff with CP 2077.
Excuse me.
I have no idea when he says TPP.
It's like transpacific partnership.
But then he said all those other things and I'm like well CP 2077.
I don't know what that is.
I have no clue.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I agree.
Homosexuality isn't a mental disorder but a genetic aberration.
All right then and I'd have to check what aberration means.
Who cares about the Jaguars?
Apparently Hello Greedo.
Hi, I often listen to efap audio at work and thus miss out on the memes.
I looked for an efap meme page on Facebook.
It was unsuccessful.
So I started one feel free to join to at efap posting on Facebook.
There you go folks.
Oh, we got a Facebook.
There is a meme section on the website as well.
The it's a shit ton of images all over there.
Yeah, you want to there's so much and it looks so good.
It's such a good good ass.
There is a link in the description to this place.
If you wish to go there.
Sorry for the extremely offensive accident.
Do it again.
Russia.
More offensive accident.
Oh Cyberpunk 2020 2077 CP.
I get it.
Oh, yeah, I'm looking forward to that.
I really am.
So I guess bought by Epic is TPP going to have a place in that game
or is it affecting the game?
I don't know.
What is TPP and specific partnership as Despo said?
Yes, I don't know how those two relate to each other.
I'm sure it's well, if it's if it's Cyberpunk, I'm pretty sure it's a different acronym then.
Okay.
Yeah, I just don't know anything about Cyberpunk.
So sorry chat.
Yeah, me neither.
Metal loved you Game of Thrones video.
Well, thank you.
I work really hard on that one.
You should check out Marla's highlight video.
It was very good.
No, I thought I think I did a shit job.
This terrible man.
What about the tie me up get it because we don't want ties.
It was time to tie me up.
Oh, that was today, right?
God damn it.
It's his original character TIE fighter.
Everyone loves it.
It doesn't need to train to be the best.
Thank you.
Okay, fine.
It was his original character.
It was the it was the TIE fighters that the ugly duckling of TIE fighters.
Let's put it that way.
More like by fighter.
Am I right?
Kill me.
Finally an eFap when I'm not working and have spare dollar.
How have you guys seen Otakinn's TIE fighter animation pre TFA?
It has a badass girl character.
Nope.
I've not seen it now.
Nope.
Girls can't be things.
Stop them before they be things before they lay eggs.
Oh, no, that's what girls do, right?
Yes, and they don't even apologize.
Finally getting to play Alan Wake.
This is the one game.
I've never spoiled for myself.
Quick, someone's brother.
Alan Wake was a it was kind of interesting.
I liked the concept.
I like it.
Yeah.
It's a vast pool.
I guess it is a good.
Yes, it's decent.
The PC port is apparently pretty good.
Like really good.
All righty.
Like if you're looking for a single player experience,
which we've been starved of in fucking 2019,
definitely give it a go.
I'm pretty sure it's been marked down plenty of times.
I just bought a PlayStation 4 to play the Jack trilogy.
For a single player experience because I'm so starved of it.
You're going to get death stranding.
So what you cut out?
That's trending.
Are you going to get death stranding?
I don't know what that is.
So, you know who Hideo Kojima of Metal Gear Solid?
Hideous Kojima.
That's a bit rude.
Hideous Kojima.
The guy who did Metal Gear Solid series.
Vaguely, I wouldn't be able to answer any questions.
Okay.
Well, he after he left Konami, he was given a studio with all the time.
He wanted all the money that he could need to make a project that he's
always wanted to do and this fucking thing has been shrouded in mystery
for years.
Nobody knows what this goddamn thing is and that is what's interesting
about it.
That doesn't sound interesting.
What is really shit?
Make the themes of the channel a statement in Godel 3.
It has been noted.
We need anime Don Smilius Dukias 2019 BC.
Don Smilius Dukias.
See, Dukias makes it sound like a poopy thing.
I'm okay with this.
Anyway,
Yaman Yosa is big massive.
That's not something Jojo ever said.
Ridiculous.
He was very much in favor of Massives.
He would never disparage them.
You're making me massive.
Greedo confirmed for boomer.
I think you probably be okay with that.
Like, yeah, I'm a boomer.
I feel so bad for him.
It's like an alien language is being spoken to him.
Infinis.
Yeah, it's like that for anybody who doesn't know Efap.
When's the Efap dictionary coming up?
Please someone make Efap dictionary.
What do the memes mean?
No one will have.
The memes my scene.
Did you ever blood do capture the Colosseum rags?
Or?
Hello.
Just something to do with Minecraft.
Oh, he says as the Empire.
Did you ever capture the Colosseum?
But it says blood do.
What?
And two.
That was my response to that question.
I demand the manager throws Jay out of Efap.
Well, I'll talk to the manager about it.
I guess.
Jay, what do you think about throwing Jay out of Efap?
Well, that was easy.
He didn't even say.
Yes, he just left.
That's pretty bad management.
Or is it good management?
Weird originally meant something like fateful or something that was
meant to happen.
Really?
Their weight changed.
They got different.
Oh shit.
The Jay guy came back.
I can't really do anything about it, guys.
I'm sorry.
What can we do?
Long ago, Earth was filled with majestic Master Dons and Megala
Dons who led massive herds of orphans to the great beyond until
Brie Larson collided with the Earth causing the Great Dawn
Extinction.
Sad story.
That's from a profile named Mongo's Big Thanks.
Thank you.
That was a big thing.
Someone has made an iFunny account for Big Idious.
Excellent.
Oh, did expect to make it to Efap life.
Well, here you are.
Rags, would you say Tism before massive?
I don't know how you would answer that.
I'll have to save that question.
I'm gonna say he would go massive first before Tism.
Really though?
I don't know.
I feel like that's subjective.
Yeah, like he would use either or depending on the
I have objective opinions.
Okay, I can't be argued with.
Did you see the video where Hello Greedo goes to his wife's
school dressed as a stormtrooper and high fives kids?
No, but that sounds like it could be wholesome.
Sounds wholesome.
Yeah, definitely.
I really hope it is wholesome.
Jay mean some slash number of things median middle mode most.
Yes, yeah, obviously.
Holy fuck Jay take stats.
Yeah, I really I knew I was I know I was getting that wrong
because I heard a chat immediately after that was like
no, it's all wrong.
So just finished the 50th Efap livestream and here you are
already 60 minutes in the next eight hour event Jesus come
down beep beep also.
Hi rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Also, what do you mean eight hour event?
We're at five hours and it's probably going to end in the
next like one minute.
I'm sure of it.
It won't be another three hours.
All right guys.
Also, yeah, well the metal has to leave at some point right
you got work tomorrow.
That's a good point.
Oh, yeah, I have a job and responsibility.
I don't I don't even make money on YouTube shit.
I will maybe attempt to read slightly faster.
I'm going to increase to 1.01 speed.
Man is going short.
I was not movie Bob.
That's almost not anything.
Oh my god, we need to try and double movie Bob next time
and just see what the hell happened.
I was leaving a little bit but I just I just hang for a bit.
I need to re refresh my sleeping schedule after this week
and I miss them.
It's really good.
More.
Thank you for the shout out during a fab.
It was awesome to bring something to the conversation.
Appreciate all the hours of excellent content.
No problem.
Scorn.
I believe I read out something.
He said in.
What killed the dinosaurs?
The Brie age get it.
That's from Mongo's big.
The dinosaurs referencing a very good film.
It's an excellent film.
Hi rags.
Hi opinion on chasing squirrels squirrels very fun.
Let's save that and hopefully ask him at some point.
I've collected a lot of questions for people and I never asked
them when they hear the ones that just say hi rags too.
So he has to say hello to everyone.
It ends with hi mauler.
Hello young rags mauler j and metal in math class or math
class.
When will this be of any use to us math teacher when you're
all on a random efap episode now shut up and bring out your
textbooks.
Who'd have thought we went to math class together, right?
Yes, obviously as rags fully recovered from Akbar's theme.
They say it's running to this day.
Bohemian Rhapsody.
Oh Bohemian Rhapsody.
I think that's actually a Twitter thing as well.
Don't worry people who sent stuff on Twitter.
I have been collecting much as I can.
I was a bit spicy on Twitter with with with axon.
So I know it got mixed in with a bunch of other stuff.
All I said was got him and I've got so many notifications
now.
Damn soon.
Also somebody's oh apparently knives out from Ryan Johnson's
got a hundred percent from eight reviewers so far.
Knives out Ryan Johnson's new epic.
What's it about?
It's a made a mystery I think.
Okay, so I don't kind of see a lot of a lot of people want
to a lot of people want to review of it because Ryan
Johnson.
I'm like guys don't watch your stuff.
But I mean, I'll probably watch it out of curiosity just
because when people start talking about I'd like to know
what it what it is.
There's a lot of Captain America's in it.
You know, that's worthwhile, right?
Iron Man is never I stood up too late and showed up too
late.
I'm tired.
Go follow Metal Commander on Twitch you beautiful Massives.
He needs the help.
Love you guys.
Was that James again?
It was and yeah, we'll make sure to plug away before just
let me know when you want to leave and we'll talk about
your little little Twitch channel.
Well, you play a little video games.
I play big video games as well.
You play medium video games.
No, they're fucking massive.
That sounds like big.
I'm watching five guys watching a guy gaming ironic.
It all just right.
You guys hear how oh, no.
Yeah, that was just right.
Did you guys hear how fortnight is the worst game ever
because you shoot people and build walls?
Oh, no.
Zimbabwe and rhinoceros milk cheese Monty Python.
I don't remember that Zimbabwe and rhinoceros milk cheese.
I don't know.
You're playing Minecraft wrong Patrick Williams.
Hey make that video like stop complaining about something
to do with Minecraft and then at one point say you're playing
Minecraft wrong.
What a big reference to Patrick.
Well, that was me saying it.
Okay, bad person.
Not bad manager.
You didn't even fire fishy fishy fishy.
That okay.
I really suggest a video called the Empire was right by some
massive called Jim Huss.
He's like a smarter vision of remarkable Republican.
He said Vader saving his own son was an act of insanity.
I swear I've seen that and I'm pretty sure he says in it that
it's a parody as far as I remember.
Oh, is he like trying to make the best arguments that you
possibly could from that position?
I swear it's I swear.
I remember seeing it and being like like watching it like
holy shit.
Is this a serious take and then seeing something that was
like, oh, okay.
Clearly.
It's not serious.
But I don't know.
Maybe I'm wrong.
I'm going to chat said efap 100 when I'm not even in control.
That's like when it's done.
It's underway one month.
Yeah, I reckon we have to get through a couple of other
episodes first all the numbers that come before.
I don't know.
I don't know how to math or moths.
He's a character in melee.
And another Super Smash Bros.
Hey massive.
Let's say I want to start watching Game of Thrones after
what season should I stop if I don't want it to be ruined season
six is what people suggest you stop after that because a
lot of things a lot of pieces are in place to make an ending
happen and you can you can just imagine it's so bad.
I would possibly recommend the end of season 4 personally.
Oh, wow.
Preferably don't even I ever something preferably don't even
watch the last episode of season 4 just stop at the ninth
episode and and just for even though it's kind of awkward
just be like yeah, that's where it ended.
Okay, but there's a lot of good stuff to get out of the
later seasons in certain places specific places.
But yeah, someone write like fanfiction for the rest of it
and then interspersed the good clips from the show.
Posh pompous mauler is a joy more of him.
Please.
What are they referencing specifically with that?
What you reckon?
Is that is that the good help?
I does can tell the future but only one water is wet.
Arguably long man bad is implied because subjective
objectivity isn't the brightest bulb in the pack.
But anyways guys Bilbo Baggins.
But anyways guys, that's a lot of memes.
The good addition to prove prediction for episode 9
Anakin will say it was layer who saved his soul.
Half of the last trailer will be from a different dream
sequence and someone will say the word Star Wars in the
movie.
Oh my god, I can believe that actually.
They needed to be like suicide score.
They go.
What are we some kind of Star Wars?
That's not a staircase.
It's a modern art piece.
I think I think rags achieved a lot with his his blocks.
I like them on a subject.
It looks like a wiggly turn.
I'm in the chat.
I'm in the chat to make this a Minecraft channel.
See that's from Mongo's big thinks again.
They get big with Minecraft.
Jay's method of stairs doesn't require building.
It can be dug that way.
I do it all the time for quick digging and simple
navigation.
Thank you.
I wouldn't always have wood blocks 100% of the time.
Yes.
We don't need wood blocks to make ladders.
So you're wrong.
But yes, Jay has been vindicated even though I'm
pretty sure he was right already.
Yeah, why farm cacti when you can't even milk them?
Explain that plot hole Jay.
Thoughts on hereditary?
I like to single letters in the chat right now.
Why did you miss the part where people demanded this
become a Minecraft only stream?
Yeah, apparently.
I'm just drifting in and out because I think I've missed
a lot of stuff.
You miss when you fired yourself.
I know I was there for that.
Couldn't have been there for that if you had to get yourself
away from you.
Wait, yes continue.
But yes, I liked hereditary.
I thought it was cool.
I liked a lot of the ways to try to be a spooky.
Not a huge fan of the way they did the story.
I think I would like to tweak a few things, but I appreciated
the method in which they attempted to scare the audience
and the pretty blatant subversive thing that happens
in it.
I was watching that with Alex.
We were both like, whoa, it was good shit.
Have any of you guys played the Star Wars Jedi Knight games?
I recommend them if you haven't.
The last Star Wars game I played was on the PlayStation.
It was like a brawler type side-scroller.
You got lightsabers.
You can bounce the lasers off them and shit.
That was pretty gay, dude.
What kind of games are those?
A little bit.
What, like the side-scrolling where you just run around
and beat people up?
The Jedi Knight games.
I got sure.
I think those...
No.
Knights of the...
The Koto ones are the RPG ones, right?
Yeah, Jedi Knight.
I played Koto.
Jedi Knight.
I don't even remember now.
The gameplay in Koto is bad.
The story is okay.
That's good.
I don't know.
I said, okay.
Jay is gonna get pooped on his...
The gameplay is fucking awful.
The way they make it hard is put loads of bullet sponge
enemies in it.
It's bad.
It's bad game design.
Yeah, no, so I haven't played it, but I know that a lot of
people want me to play a lot of different Star Wars games.
I'll have to get on it eventually.
Hey, desk bullshit.
Hello.
I've been subscribed to you the longest out of all of
Efap since Gmod idiot box days.
Yeah, what is the series on?
Like 10 years, 11 years now?
It's kind of old.
It's almost as old as Efap.
Yeah.
Mola give this to him Utism.
They donated five pounds, which turns into about three pounds,
which turns into about four dollars.
Um, I'll have to grab your PayPal from you.
I can see that if you.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
Oh, there we go.
Hi rags.
Have you seen pig punches video on you?
I will save that.
Pig punch.
Even if he was to answer yes, well, no, I imagine he might
elaborate.
Hey guys, wanted to ask when you guys will tackle Man of
Steel brown table almost made a video on that as well.
Soon.
I'm afraid all of the Efap episodes are just as soon.
This one's in TM.
What's the name?
Pig punch?
Pig puncher.
Oh, pig puncher.
So already I'm very upset.
You shouldn't be punching pigs.
Pigs.
That's animal abuse.
Pigs are smart.
People abuse pigs are people.
Everyone always compares people to pigs.
So pigs are people, right?
I used to really like rags and brackets live.
Well, that's five hours.
Fuck.
Oh, that's the pig.
Five hour video.
Oh, I think I know that is the stream about him.
Yeah.
Think I remember that.
Not that long bad.
Oh my god.
He's playing Minecraft.
We're fine.
We come full circle.
Do you think you already like his video?
Wow.
I'm going to drop out here now.
I'm afraid it is getting pretty late.
Do you want to talk quickly about where people can find you
and what would possess them to follow you on Twitter?
Wow.
You already told them it's on Twitch.
But yeah, we stream the things on the Twitch, mostly me.
But this long man guy is.
I'm there sometimes.
There.
Yeah, it's funny.
If you have all of your past broadcasts, you can actually like
trace me working on the Game of Thrones video.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, you can just go over there.
Just turn them around.
That is a link to his Twitch channel.
You could also find him on YouTube, but mostly YouTube is
just re uploads of his Twitch channel for now.
Yeah, but we have we have one video there that I actually
made myself.
Yes, highlight video that is you should also clip out of
the stream you did of it in and make it a standalone video
on your Twitch too.
So people like that on Twitch on YouTube, which you can do
and yeah, I'm there every once in a while more often than
not I'd say and we tend to do you should look for the video
of me rags him and for tear.
I think it's one of the streams have a lot of views just
we're basically having drinks and playing video games.
See there's a lot of stuff to like on there.
And if you like Twitch and you annoyed that no one on efap
is on Twitch and they go there's there's a tism.
Exactly.
Yeah, and I well, I guess.
You should all actually watch the highlights there on the
YouTube's.
Yes, what got really well and the reception was very good
so far as well.
So I'm happy with that.
If you search for the highlights video with metal Commander
you'll get a nice quick sort of blast of what you can expect
from watching his streams and then decide whether or not
it's worth it.
Yeah, very much.
So go I was I was completely out of the I was completely
not paying attention to anything there and then forgot
that people might actually be having a conversation before
I said something.
You're a bad man.
I'll let him go though.
Do you want to say anything else?
No, so good.
Yeah, no, hey then have fun.
I'll catch you tomorrow.
Probably already.
See you later.
Next time.
What a gay.
Anyway, what you're saying about punching innocent animals?
Pig Puncher is the guy who did a stream.
I don't know if you've seen this.
Called I fucking lost it.
I can't was it gone shit.
Okay, I had a tab of this.
It was open in a tab.
Was it gone?
Oh, I found it.
He has a stream a seven-hour stream called we're booze
defend literal Nazi anime fuck we're booze defend literal
Nazi anime reviewer and I think it's about here.
Oh, so it's very level-headed take on reality.
I mean, I'm fairly confident.
He are isn't a literal Nazi, although maybe he is we don't
know he could have those thoughts in his brain noggin.
It's pronounced nazai.
I think he's just kind of taking it and running with it
because everybody just calls him that because he dares to
make Nazi jokes.
Oh, yeah.
I think at this point, it's totally a you know, he did one
and then they were like you're one and then he was like a
two and they're like, oh my god, two you're even worse.
And they went three like, oh, then he went five.
They're just in agony.
He's just gonna I don't know enough about the guy to like
say he's not or he is my guess is he's not but I really
I really don't think he is honestly.
That's how he's getting you.
Despo.
She's convincing you.
He's not by being is by but not I like I like the he left
a comment on my videos.
Once something like like congratulations.
Keep going.
We're like a mere five Star Wars analysis videos now from
indoctrinating thousands more to the Nazi ideology.
As if that's the way with it was planned from the beginning
like yeah Star Wars analysis videos.
That's the way to do it.
I'm seriously confused about fat man falling.
He does videos similar to yours more with pretty similar
style and humor.
It feels hypocritical.
Yeah.
Is that from yeah, is that from Phoenix?
No us cool man 229.
So yeah, the exact same thing.
So yeah, he saw it too.
I can't make the time to go on a podcast but I can stream
Minecraft.
Fuck.
Yeah, be like 2010 all over again up in here unless I can
guarantee at least one of them will roll my eyes for me.
I was such a strange poet.
I like to roll my eyes for me.
I'm familiar with fat man falling's Ruby criticism videos.
I'm shocked.
He doesn't like you more.
Well, I think the missing piece of the puzzle was that
H bomber guy thing that Phoenix was talking about.
Yeah, I might that to me makes a lot of sense like he got
off on the wrong foot and he's just taking it away because
the back and forth we had on Twitter ended like I said with
him being like fine.
You're right asshole like okay.
So why did why did this even happen?
Do you want to talk to me sometimes?
Yeah, maybe I will.
You just sort of sitting there like okay sounds like the
start of something beautiful and he like looks back on that
interaction as me being the waffle or whatever he said.
I don't know.
It's really important.
I just I don't know.
I agree with all of you.
I don't know why either.
What is your favorite snack slash sweet and would you kill
for it?
Oh, that is a good question because I got a bit of a sweet
tooth.
There's not a lot.
I don't like same.
I got some really nice.
There's a I'm in Leamington at the moment the posh place in
the world and there's a food fair at the moment in the park
and I went down there and bought some marzipan fudge and
it's like one of the nicest things I've ever tasted as a
big fan of marzipan and fudge.
Huh?
People are saying Vito wants me and then Vito said the new
episode of the nerd crew is briefly about me and mauler.
Are you talking about when they say this guy's criticizing
Star Wars?
Is he alt right?
Because yeah, I love that bit.
Wait, what is that ironic or not?
Oh, yeah, they're joking.
They're commenting on that's that's a criticism.
We got like people people are like certain that I can't
tell you can't tell.
Why would you criticize Star Wars unless you were alt
right?
Explain yourself.
People might say that that's the world we live in.
They call it cloud world.
I call it reasonable world.
I know of someone who has said a thing vaguely similar to
that just in slightly more coded language.
So it sounds less insane.
Well, there's a gateway to ER.
The ER is a gateway to directly to Hitler.
Hitler has a YouTube channel for those steps.
It was like her stuff was the last Jedi is very inconsistent.
I like like this channel is very good.
But yeah, my favorite snack or sweet.
I don't know.
I wouldn't kill for it.
No, whatever it is.
I wouldn't like it that much.
The nerd crew is red letter media.
Yes, I didn't know that.
Oh, and this is a new one of the people are referencing.
I don't know.
I think they meant Jeremy as for you.
They said long three-hour videos.
Also, I remember which is the problem.
They weren't clear.
I mean, I am pretty up-to-date with red letter media stuff.
They've put out an half in the bag for it.
I don't know if they reference.
I want to know, but he said the newest nerd crew thing.
Anyway, this super chat is seemingly short.
I used to love fat man until he started this beef with you more.
I actually found out about you because of that.
Oh, I mean, it's not even like the beef that could be over in seconds by the sounds of it.
Anyway, if you're going to be on a live stream with face cam, then why not clean your room?
Also fat man falling clearly isn't fat.
I couldn't tell.
I couldn't really see his face and you can have, you know, thin faces with with chungo bodies.
Isn't that right, Jay?
You did because he doesn't want to embarrass himself by answering in the negative.
Know the truth.
Yeah, I don't know.
If you're going to live stream your room, you're probably going to want to put away the chessboard.
Let's just say that.
I'm going to say put away the chessboard and tidy the whole damn thing.
And it's like you really want to at least put on a better appearance than that and sit up straight for God.
I would have figured fat man falling would like you because his reviews of Ruby seemed really
similar to your reviews.
Each one is at least one and a half hours long and breaks down the horrible writing.
What the hell that's from another person that's different from the other two.
So yeah, yeah.
Wow.
So see, I've never seen the guy's videos.
So it's like I guess I would probably look at this exact same thing at that.
This is a fourth different person.
I'm confused by fat man falling because I really like his Ruby reviews, which honestly seem to be an objective take.
He highlights breaks in continuity and logical inconsistency, which is bad.
Bad to him.
Sorry.
Yeah.
YouTubers hate him.
Learn how long man did it.
Yeah.
Seems like a lot of people having the same take then.
All right.
Yeah.
Well, so I'm going to need to watch a video of his now and just kind of see this phenomenon happen.
I want to see rags face so badly.
Well, we had that meme from 50 where handsome rags was.
That was gorgeous.
It was beautiful.
Um, have you massive scene hereditary?
I, we just talked about it.
No martyrs.
I think I've seen that.
I can't remember.
Um, any thoughts?
Well, I can't remember if I've seen it and I did talk about hereditary.
Also, hi rags.
Hello.
I watched Alaska raid.
Also, what did you do outside of YouTube?
Tism's doggo things.
I guess I'll I'll save that for mr.
Raggers.
Oh man, he's got a lot of questions building up.
Val's dance in space truckers is his apex role.
That sounds like a really terrible movie, but hey, no, it's probably really good.
And he's he's actually been in a lot of those.
I was just reminded of this rags.
I caught a re-up with your face in it.
Now.
I'm not gay or anything, but my pee pee felt some strange things.
Should I save that to make sure rags can hear it or should I not?
I think rags would appreciate that.
I think you'd like to know you made a pee pee hard.
Yeah.
Um, especially a straight pee pee.
Screwing white diamond isn't inherently sexual.
I'm glad.
They just have a milk emoji after that as well.
No specification.
Just milk.
White diamond milk white.
Yeah, that's probably what it is.
It's one emote for two stones.
If you will, I keep going to rant about Steven Universe.
Because I I really want my chance to do that.
And then I remember I'm making a video about it.
I'm like, no, I'll get my chances.
Okay.
If if anyone in the chat hates Steven Universe.
Keep an eye on my channel.
Oh, sweet.
Hey, maybe you are like your video.
I like that show before and then they ruined it.
They destroyed everything they destroyed.
I am so sorry.
It the the last Jedi that they.
And that's it.
He just stopped.
And that's the good parts like the parts that you could objectively say.
That's well executed.
The the.
This is the finale not the movie.
As far as objective is his subjective goes.
My favorite movie of all time is called Ninja Assassin.
It's about as deep as the name implies.
I think that sounds incredibly deep Ninja Assassin.
Who knows what the themes are in that film like?
Be a ninja and an assassin at the same time.
That's a lot of stresses that come with that.
A lot of systemic limitations.
A lot of societal pressures.
That's very very deep.
Why is that pentagram fellow looking like a Klingon?
I haven't watched Star Trek.
I'm not a nerd.
Watch it.
Well, what are you gonna do?
Beat me up.
Yes, for a final watch it Jesus.
The sun is a star and the sun is not a star of both objective opinions.
The accuracy of the statement isn't what makes it objective.
Yes.
Yeah, I would be curious what what their argument would be for why it's not a star.
It's typically in the qualification.
You'll find if it's objective or objective, right?
Unless the words are inherent like I feel.
But yes, I pretty much agree.
Invites Celtic Phoenix on.
He seems rational from what I've seen thus far.
He seemed rational indeed.
As pure-blood Anglo-Saxon, Celts are gay.
Oh, I'm sure they would say the reverse.
Hello.
Did you do the in history class in school?
Did you do like the Anglo-Saxon Celt shit?
Things like just every every like few hundred years Britain was invaded.
Was that your history class?
We only did like British history from like 3000 to 1000 years ago.
Just skip all over and be like, yeah, a bunch of people came in did stuff.
We're here now.
We got invaded a lot.
Hello, my fellow plot hole demons of legend.
Oh, yeah, Houston production referred to me as a demon of legend when it comes to plot hole nitpickery.
I'm a demon of legend now, jealous.
Yeah, a little bit.
Just a little.
Matt Mola, would you mind saying for a meme?
I love you.
I try not to, but I can't stop.
Yeah, that'll work.
What it's worth, Mola, I really appreciate what you do all the time and effort you put into your videos and streams of very entertaining and inspiring from an editor like me.
Big thanks.
That's from Mongo's big thanks again.
Thank you.
It's very kind, big thing.
You probably wouldn't consider the Bechdel test as an indicator of quality, but determining whether a movie passes or not is objective.
Yes, you make the standard clear and then the judgment could absolutely be objective you because it's it's a isn't the Bechdel test based on like you have to have a woman talk to a woman in the film and you can't have them talk about a man.
That's the one.
Is that it?
Yes.
Yes.
I need to reply to something.
Is there a male version called the Mandel test?
No, that would be a sexism.
I need to reply to someone in chat.
The show is not pro-fascist.
It's weirdly sympathetic towards fascist characters, but it's it's very clearly against the fascism part.
Which is the show?
Steven Universe.
Oh, Jesus.
The whole thing the whole thing is it like portrays every character except like a couple of ones that's weirdly singled out.
It was like, no, they're bad as sympathetic, even if they're like the worst person ever, which can get really uncomfortable at times.
But it's clearly like the things they do are bad, but they can be redeemed.
All they got to do is give a little speech.
All they got to do is say that the genocides they committed were wrong and then they're good.
I hadn't thought of it that way.
As as fucked as you can say, that is it's not pro-fascism or even pro-genocide, you know.
Also, hi, Shad's editor, I see you there.
The wall going up.
Use how dinos now have feathers to explain objective opinions.
All the scientists who before said dinos didn't were not being subjective, they were just misinformed.
I mean, I'm curious what their response to that would be.
I can't remember, I don't know my history well enough, or my archaeology history well enough to be able to explain what happened there.
Was it like a mistake that scientists made?
But that would be interesting to explore as well as an example.
It took me two weeks to get through Efap 50 law.
It's a shame I couldn't catch it live.
Oh, well, call this one live.
Yau Kim from Sabaton put it best.
Politics are like genitals.
They're fine to have, but don't whip them out in public.
Unless it's consensual, I guess.
In public, though.
You could be consensual in public.
Yeah, but the rest of the public may not consent to that.
What if they did?
Well, so like the whole world is like, yeah, everybody announces simultaneously, yes, pull out your jingle jangs.
I guess that would be okay.
What if someone out there means your eardrums by jingle jangs and they get offended?
Well, then they need to learn what words mean.
And I would probably question the fact that pulling out your eardrums sounds terrifying.
If someone consents to something and they're like, oh, I didn't mean it that way.
Like, you know, I didn't know that that word meant that I consented that.
Then they still consented.
That takes you down a dangerous road.
The idea is you don't know what.
It's really fucked.
It's a really fucked thing to think about because like if someone says I consent to this, right, this may not be sex.
This could be literally anything and then you do whatever and then they say, oh, I thought consent.
I don't want it.
That's a really fucked situation.
But I'm pretty sure the person who heard the message is not in the wrong.
But pretty sure yet, they're not.
If someone says I consent to this, then you do the thing.
You've done nothing wrong because that's how consent works.
What about consent?
Like a concert.
No, no, no consent.
If a con like like a prisoner sent something.
Oh, so what to wear?
Well, no, that's irrelevant to my question.
What was the question?
Sorry.
Don't even see you.
Don't even listen.
Didn't sing.
Have you know, I go on the manager and you don't even don't even.
Yeah, that's fucked up.
But I can't help that.
I own everyone here.
Even that's bullshit.
Really.
Do you own his ice pack on his head?
Yes.
Oh, is that what that is?
I mean, oh, I assumed it was like he got hit in the head.
You're not allowed to confirm this.
I was wondering that.
Is that why he's silent?
He's like, Oh God.
This is the age old mystery of video box.
He can't answer it.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I was going over something.
Say that again, please.
Is the thing on your head an ice pack?
Yes.
I always thought it was just like a weird hat.
Nope.
It's a nice pack.
Sorry.
I'm going over.
So I'm out going over somebody's work here just to make sure it's all right before you can.
How dare you not pay attention to a moment of effect.
I would never do that.
Can we get Celtic Phoenix concerned face as an emote?
I mean, no one wants to play with it in discord.
I'm sure you wouldn't mind.
Mueller is a silly guy.
That's just silly.
I am.
Well, remember I'm a silly guy who presents himself as non-silly.
How neat is that?
Every time a chess piece moves one human sacrifice.
Every time a chess piece moves one human sacrifice.
I don't even okay.
My little massive objectivity is massive magic.
Oh, it's like the kid vision.
These objectivity to slay demons or something.
Hey guys.
Who would you say had the worst turn from hero to villain?
Daenerys Targaryen or Jared Genesis?
That would be Daenerys.
I always had that kind of like inkling that Jared was a little unhinged.
But Daenerys is all like it was much more foreshadowed with Jared apparently.
Yeah, big time.
Daenerys is totally foreshadowed 100% totally but but also not.
I love DS2 and his DLC is more than 800 hours.
I have on record, but I won't defend the shit hit boxes and level design in some areas.
Google block shit.
Well, yeah, I mean, that's all good.
I have no problem.
Someone would enjoy the shit out of that game, but holy crap.
The hit boxes.
Super bad fat man falling.
You can't objectively critique art.
Also fat man falling makes critique of Ruby by breaking down the writing and showing the contradictions and missed opportunities.
Well, apparently he would say that's just what he specifically thinks is worth breaking down.
That's how he judges it.
Hi maul.
I just want to thank you that your gas mask has two filters and I can't stand asymmetrical things.
Oh, no problem.
Hello Greeter's TIE fighter gave me a brain seizure.
A brain seizure, right?
That when your brain specifically starts like shaking and locking up.
And the rest of you is like, oh man.
Hey, you're you're the hospital expert here.
What's a brain seizure?
Why am I the hospital?
How have you got to that conclusion?
You told me that that one time.
Well, yeah, but that I told you that in confidence.
But you said make sure you mentioned on the 51 all the way back 10 years ago.
Take it to like to say like, oh, I misspoke.
When I met with you and you were six years old and birthday party, you said to make sure to say it on the 51.
Yeah, but I never thought that was a joke.
I was like, wow.
Are you a spider?
Hello future.
Yes, I'm impressed.
But I told you that in confidence as well.
So I told all of this to you in non confidence.
Imagine telling a secret on effect and hoping it stays a secret.
I don't think that would work very well.
A couple of people are watching right now.
So we trust them.
The main issue I see with people who hate objective analysis is that they never use qualifiers for this.
statements.
They hear a word like good and think it can only be used in a subjective opinion.
Yes.
No rags nuclear Holocaust.
You're wrong.
But wouldn't wouldn't rags say that that would support his idea that you've added a word to specify which Holocaust?
And then when you say Holocaust on its own, most people assume the specific one, but I don't know.
I don't know what he'd say fact equals possible to prove true false opinion equals impossible.
What?
Fact equals possible to prove true.
False opinion equals impossible.
I think is what that says.
Sorry, it's just a little bit formatted with omnipotent.
God can't make a rock that he can't lift because that rock is impossible to exist.
It does not take away his omnipotence because he still has to follow laws of the universe.
He's in.
Well, that was what rags said later, right?
Was that only logically possible.
When God is called omnipotent, it means that he has power over all that already exists and will exist because he made it all.
So no, he can't make such a rock that but he's still omnipotent.
Yeah, again, I think rags did address that toward the end.
Play Akbar's theme, Ocean Man.
Yet loads of people were requesting that while he was talking to you, Jay.
Everyone wanted Ocean Man.
I didn't, I don't really understand it.
Like, is it supposed to be something we play whenever rags is talking or arguing?
Sure, do it.
No, we can't do it now.
The new elevator music.
Well, we have that too.
I think Ocean Man is going to be specific to rags.
That's why God doesn't exist.
He is instead.
He is instead?
If a man finds a rock with infinite weight and he has infinite strength, the mathematics says he can lift it.
Yeah, but the requirements were too heavy to lift and can lift anything.
I don't know.
My brain's a little bit melty, so go sleep rags.
Would God surprise, would God surpass the rule of what we understand with our senses?
Like how termites are blind so they can't tell you're standing above them?
What?
Okay, yes.
Maybe again, we're talking about it depends on which religion and who's who's defining parameters and stuff is complicated.
Hang on, James Moore.
It's not caught up on Steven Universe.
Don't catch up.
Just don't, don't watch it.
Stop it like from here to Homeworld.
That's it.
Lots of good things end on cliffhangers.
It's fine.
Seriously, don't.
Hey rags and everyone else, but hello.
Hello.
Oh, thanks for the efaps.
I spent a whole weekend listening to your 50th efap.
Keep up the good work.
No problemo.
Wouldn't the plot of TFA be the qualitative qualitative data because in a poly-sci context like historical accounts or interview really dumb.
I don't even want to reopen that until I've got energy back.
Qualitative versus quantitative quantitative.
Yes, though that is qualitative.
I think qualitative and qualitative or qualitative.
I know what it means.
I just don't know.
Qualitative, qualitative, qualitative, qualitative.
Also, yeah, if you're hearing anything behind my voice is because I've got a fan running don't don't don't be too.
You get a lot of hate from other youtubers because of an inferiority complex.
I mean, maybe maybe some of them somewhere, but I think a lot of them do actually consider me to be the worst thing ever.
Also, you seen Banshee stars.
The guy who played Homelander good action.
I have not seen Banshee.
Maybe seen it.
Maybe not.
No, I don't know what that is.
What is it again?
Banshee.
Now never seen it or rum is harsh.
Jay Coleco Jack whipped rum.
I didn't say it was like the harshest drink ever.
I accept that there are harder drinks than rum.
Hey, Mola, have you considered getting an editor to help out content get content out faster?
My biggest thing about it that I've said a couple places is that a lot of my video is made in the editing as in the flavor if you will of what my videos are.
And so if I was to have an editor, I would need them to ghost me for ages and then I'd still be like awkward about it.
I'd be like, I don't know.
It's not really me putting the pieces together and it doesn't feel as much of my video.
But then again, it would mean I could make it faster.
So it's I don't know.
I'm not sure what I'm gonna do.
What he means to say is I'm too busy.
So nobody's good enough.
I'm too busy to have someone help me not be.
No, no, I mean me.
I'm too busy to do it.
I'm too busy to do it.
You're editing for way bigger big wigs than someone like me.
Yeah, but you know, if I wasn't, I would I would I would happily try.
I'm a fluke.
Ben mopped the breaker room on the supremacy and says that a hypothetical hyperspace tracker would be an A-class system and all A-class system breakers are located in that room.
Oh, as an explanation for how he knows about the breaker, but he didn't know that the hyperspace tracker existed.
I'd have to watch the scene again.
So I've got a point coming up in my TFA series that that's a counter argument, but then there's a counter argument to that.
Well, I just can't remember what it is.
Also, as people state as a plus, the hyperspace tracking was established in Rogue One as data that was being worked upon.
And so the idea that it was being worked on was implemented like a day after Finn left.
The first order is pretty hilarious.
So you're pretty much in terrible writing territory, no matter what.
Hey, Mulder, I loved your unbridled rage of Game of Thrones Episode 5.
Definitely worth the wait.
Also, Rags is objectively the best doggo.
Hi, Rags.
Wow, how is C.J. and Wolf gonna feel?
Say hi back.
Yeah, he insulted the other doggos.
Mulder, please do a review of the Dark Crystal AOR.
I'm afraid I have no investment in Dark Crystal, so...
I know how it is.
I like to cover the things that I've got the investment in.
J is such a massive sweetheart.
That's so wholesome.
Remember the debate between Wolf and J?
I'm pretty sure Mulder changed his score for the movie, saying it's better than he thought it was.
Oh, yeah, about Arrival, because I probably need to watch that film again and really focus on the whole idea that...
I don't even want to say, because I'm probably gonna get it wrong the weird way that film works.
I could say it, but I don't want it.
I feel like our time is more important than going back into that.
Omnipotent does not equal can-do-anything.
A car with infinite power source can't fly.
What?
I don't think...
Hang on, I'm googling it.
Wait, a car with infinite power source can't fly.
Oh, it literally just means having unlimited power.
So, why wouldn't it be able to fly?
Why wouldn't God be able to fly if he was able to also create universes and stuff?
So, unlimited power is defined as having unlimited power, so it means, like, you know...
Yeah, hang on. It says unlimited power, not unlimited, like...
Oh, not like a fuel source!
Yeah, not like unlimited fuel.
I was confused at first. I'm like, why wouldn't it be able to fly, dude?
Seems like it would fly forever.
But I don't think that's what the definition means by power.
Right, right, right, right.
I don't think it means fuel.
So, like, the synonym is all-powerful. I don't think that means...
Oh, they've got a lot of fuel.
In my college cinema class, my professor made a quick aside about how the new style of movies are really bad,
as well as distinguishing between subjective and objective criticism.
Really?
You know.
I thought that those people didn't really do that stuff anymore, because...
...much more approachable to just say everything's subjective.
Mola, did you see Taxon epically own you?
Your video on Twitter?
I did, and I quote-tweeted him right back, because he's a wonderful...
Thank you for being great movie critiques and getting me away from cinema sins.
They've become too SJW, especially on their podcast.
Jay, do you know anything about this?
Yeah, they say it looks like dumb stuff that's like...
...where they clearly just don't know what the fuck they're talking about.
It's not like...
They don't make political statements or anything.
They're just like, hey, you know what's cool?
The left?
Whoa!
Whoa!
That's like...
The one that sticks out to me in my head is one where they're like...
Oh, they said about Captain Marvel.
They removed a sin.
They thought, oh, this is so good that we're going to take a sin off, because two women were having a conversation.
I can't remember what they...
It's like, the qualifier was, it's about time that in the MCU, two powerful women had a conversation.
And then to follow that up, they say...
And people are probably going to say we're like, as social justice warriors or virtue signalers.
But aren't those things basically compliments anyway?
I'm sorry, I just...
I have more respect for women than to congratulate them for talking to each other.
Social justice warrior could be...
There is an argument to be made that social justice warrior could be a compliment, because it's like, you fight for social justice.
Justice, by definition, is good.
Social justice is a kind of justice.
Or is someone who fights for that?
Sure, by the strictest terms, yeah, that's a compliment, right?
Well, is he aware of the term connotation?
Yes.
And, you know, there are a lot of crazy people that you can describe on any side, but yes, on that side, who do that in a crazy way.
But virtue signaling is in no way a compliment.
It's literally just, I'm saying this not because I think it's a good thing to say, but because I think it will make me look good.
Right, yeah, that's how I understand it anyway.
You say it because you want points for being a good man, you don't necessarily believe in the thing.
Or even if...
Like a writer, you know, like...
The example I go for is Stephen Moffat, who wrote Doctor Who for a while, who politically seems like he is pretty...
He's kind of not right-leaning, but he's certainly not left.
But every time a character was mentioned in passing, they would be gay.
And it just came across as like, look at me, I've put gays in my show.
So it's like, every time a character would be mentioned off-screen, it's like, oh yeah, my uncle did that.
Him and his husband did this.
And it's like, oh, gay.
It's like, you know, every time someone is mentioned in passing, oh, they're gay, by the way.
Like, thanks, Stephen. Thanks for putting this in your show.
Subtle. So subtle.
Me, as an algebra term myself, feel really represented and helped by you occasionally putting the word gay in this.
You are one of the alphabet people.
Dun, dun, dun.
Do you see a...
I have a spaghetti.
A Chappelle show. A Chappelle stand.
That was amazing. That was hilarious.
No.
What is that?
Dave Chappelle sticks in stone special on Netflix.
Oh, is that the one that starts with him walking in like a salt plane, narrated by Morgan Freeman?
No.
OK, then no.
Well, I haven't seen that either. I just saw the start of it.
You watch it, become offended about it.
Yep.
Is it funny?
It's hilarious. It's great.
Is it?
But that's why it's not okay for them.
In my subjective opinion, it's funny.
Is that good enough for you?
Is it the edgy?
It has several edges. It's like a cube.
I'm trying to count the edges.
If you roll a cube, it'll like maybe roll twice or three times after.
Maybe it stops bouncing.
But you got a couple of edges on there that's forcing the cube to stop.
That's 12 edges.
On a cube?
Yeah.
Can you be sure about that?
I'm pretty sure a cube has 12 edges.
Like if you count like the corners where two sides interact.
I think you're right, actually.
Faces.
No, it's just one edge.
They're all connected.
Yeah.
It's just a big edge.
It's just one big edge.
So he's a cube of edge.
Yeah, pretty much.
One day, I'll get Mola to judge my comic with his subjectivity.
Perhaps.
It says, hashtag Teetsanit.
He's at 51. I don't know what I was expecting.
I don't think anyone knew what to expect from this one.
This was what one might call pure-tism in a good way, though.
I know you didn't.
Yeah, you do know that for sure.
Like you can prove it.
You could screenshot.
You could reveal the truth.
You told me like, oh, that's the message.
I had a whole bunch of notes.
And I told you, I had a whole bunch of backup plans in case we didn't make it.
And I got through like a quarter of the plans.
I thought that it wasn't enough, which seems to happen a lot with my.
Overshot it by like.
Yes.
The nipple stuff is because in the 19th century, men had to dig ditches and it was socially accepted to go shirtless.
So their wives wouldn't wash as many shirts.
It was a privileged and a norm born.
I'm pretty sure it's a titty thing.
I think it's a booby thing, right?
Yeah.
Boobies are sexy, but the nine boobies isn't.
That's the that's the high brain take of it.
Clean your room.
Kerbit the froggled.
Repeal the 19th and arrest.
Remain MPs are treason.
That sounds like a raw thing, but that's from Zonta.
Virgin Celtic's Chad Anglo Saxon.
Look at your opinion, man.
So Phoenix used the fat man to get on Efap.
I mean, he kind of said that.
Good for him.
Question.
He did good when he was here.
Yeah.
And he wanted to come on.
He found a natural way of doing it, even.
I guess you could say it's not natural because it was planned, but it also, I don't know.
I'm not.
Would it be a deal breaker if you met the perfect girl, a 10 out of 10 in every respect,
except she has movie Bob's voice and speech patterns.
Oh, Jesus.
What?
You said you met the perfect girl.
She's not the perfect girl.
What's the word except in that sentence?
I don't care.
I don't care.
There is no, once you accept that, that's the first part was just.
She's the perfect girl, but she has committed genocide.
It's a drink except it's acid.
That's still never mind.
Anyway, he looks like Adam from YMS, but fat and balding.
That's a way to.
I had the last super chat of a 30 hour.
Before the stream went down, but those objectively unlovable orphans at YouTube cut it off.
How can I proclaim myself as King massive now?
Also rags new Game of Thrones video was crap.
Rags doesn't make good Game of Thrones videos of you guys.
Yeah, it takes too long to make and I show up and then they're like, they're long.
They're like the big game.
I couldn't put that in the chat.
So put it in our chat for the person who got who lost their super chat.
Oh, did I not start far back enough?
Have you put that in the chat?
No.
On the moment.
Probably not.
I've seen it, but I don't like it.
That's the last minute.
Anyway, I would aesthetics and art criticism be a 400 level university course.
If everything is subjective, it's the most important class I took as an artist.
They would argue that the teacher is simply giving you their perspective.
So dumb.
They should give lots of perspectives.
Fuck yeah.
And this is the thing.
The teachers I went through half of them would agree with that statement.
The other half would be like, that's fucking bullshit.
They would feel devalued in their strife towards sort of.
Let's just say better craft.
If they were told it's just what you think is better crap.
I want to see these people debate like hardcore experienced teachers that come to the conclusion that art is a craft that can be refined.
Just see how it go.
I'm prediled braids.
I'm bridled praise of breaking bad.
It wouldn't be against that, but I don't know how it fit into my mind.
Schedule.
Five seasons and it's just going to be really difficult to break down.
Breaking bad.
There's too much going on.
It is a good show.
It's a great show.
Anyone know that Death Note was made into a stage musical?
I didn't know that.
I did not know that.
We know now.
The sad part is they're making a sequel to that awful Death Note movie.
I guess it made it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then they also canceled Daredevil.
So fuck everything finishes Game of Thrones unbridled rage wakes up to eat.
Not bad.
What if Rose instead of the bullshit bull stuff she told Finn it was by the Supreme Leader's order that she did it and spat in his face and called him resistance gum.
She was a mole all along.
All of her bullshit was planned sabotage thoughts.
Yeah.
I think that if they made her and hold her moles would have made the film way better.
Like oh thank God we can explain so much with this.
That's bullshit.
Do you remember Kitty 0 7 0 6.
Of course I do.
Of course I do.
He was a dear friend of mine.
So a bit of a backstory on that.
He goes he goes by the pseudonym Elliot.
He was a he was a fellow GMI animator.
He he passed away of leukemia several years back.
And yeah so did a little tribute to him and everything.
You know simple as that.
Leukemia sucks.
Yeah.
They agree there.
What is leukemia again is that a variation of like a cancer or is that something else.
Yeah it's it's it's basically a cancer.
Yeah.
On a serious note I was revisiting some of his content for all time sake.
Do any of you guys have thoughts on his content.
I don't know him.
They wouldn't know him.
I knew he existed vaguely but I don't know about his content.
Please do movie Bob's Game of Thrones video on Efap.
Movie Bob's videos are so bad.
Horrible.
Isn't that the point of Efap.
Yes.
But like you know our threshold.
I don't know.
Probably not.
But I mean it's hard to pick a movie Bob video because they're all awful.
We'll probably do another one eventually.
But we've got to make sure we cover everyone else.
You know I hate to go even one Efap without tonal.
How do you think it makes me feel.
Losing my inspiration.
It's just a super chat that says good rats.
Good stuff.
What note of 24 hour Efap.
I want my money back.
We did the we did the one.
It already happened.
Technically there was no 24 hour Efap.
Are you going to say that it's split into three.
It was 27.
No I'm going to say technically it was a 30 hour Efap.
Yeah just about.
Well 29 and a lot.
Rounding up.
That's wrong.
They say in maths never round up.
I don't think that's true.
They always round down because rounding down is safer.
The silence because you don't disagree because you know it's true.
Apparently YouTube won't let me send super chats for more than two dollars.
Fix your crap Susan.
Oh I think he's referring to the free super chat.
That you get per month with a YouTube premium subscription.
Oh maybe well that was set in two super chats that were both two dollars though.
Oh well now I don't know then.
I'm glad the length for any new Efap is now 24 hours.
No.
I found your channel through logic on a live stream you appeared on lol by the way.
Would he be able to come on again.
Yes we are.
We've had him on before.
Well it's been such a while now that we are actually interested in trying to make it happen sooner rather than later.
So we'll have to see.
Manager J.
I've recently rewatched Lord of the Rings but as far as we know you've still only seen fellowship.
What's your excuse.
That was my excuse.
So me.
I'm not going to give him anything.
Really nothing.
Well I was saying I have no excuse.
You couldn't even fake an excuse for this poor person.
I was stuck in traffic.
Alright.
You definition of nitpick.
An objective flaw that doesn't interfere with immersion and or stakes.
Immersion is subjective.
Yeah that's subjective.
Stakes though.
Doesn't interfere with stakes.
Yeah that would be pretty definable.
I'm not opposed.
But I don't think you can because like technically if it then if it then interferes with the stakes in the tiniest way then you can count it.
So like I would call the disappearing knife a nitpick.
Because it's tiny.
Oh I don't know if I'd call it a nitpick.
No not really no.
Okay not a, no actually I'm thinking about that.
I was about to say it's like the complete opposite because it saved your life.
Yeah.
I would say a nitpick is the coffee cup.
I'd probably say a nitpick is one of the dudes in the background doing a spin randomly.
It'd be like as much as you can say that's retarded.
You could be like yeah well maybe he was just you know.
If um if it if it if a guy in the background cut like does a spin randomly right that could be a nitpick.
What if it was like in the center of the frame.
Then everyone it completely like breaks the tone of the scene.
Then it wouldn't.
And then it like like one of them strip snake and starts dancing in the middle of the fight.
And we're just like oh nobody reacts.
I could get to the stakes because it shows that there's like it's a low impact situation.
That's an interesting conversation because subjectively we probably guarantee it would like there's nobody who's not going to notice that.
However objectively what's happening in the storyline one of them went insane took off his clothes and started running around.
It's like well that doesn't necessarily affect Ray or Kylo in any way that's bad other than they've knocked out one enemy technically.
Because he's gone insane.
But then a new one arrives.
In that case it doesn't necessarily do anything outside of distract them maybe.
That's a weird.
I mean I would talk more about that but have to be able to come to an end to this stream otherwise we don't want to do another 24 hour.
Come on.
Never again except when we do it again once.
After the successful 24 hours stream if have more show from now on be known as his massiveness long man supreme.
I got a crown I got a cape.
The king's capes or do they wear blokes.
Chad has a thing.
My wife and I finally finished watching Aquaman it was a riot.
We found the room of superhero movies.
It's so bad it's amazing.
Agreed.
What would we go so far to say it was like the room though.
I don't know who goes for says as bad as the room but it's pretty bad.
Yeah.
A death to the aliens hashtag humanity first.
I don't want to make of that.
Isn't that from something.
It's not a reference to something.
I swear I've heard that in a place.
I guess we'll have to see a chat.
Notice what it is.
Congratulations the anniversary stream is complete.
What's the next step of your master plan.
I'll reveal master plans we're not generic villains.
You'll have to.
Know stuff.
What do you guys think of the sixth sense.
I saw it when I was a kid it gave me nightmares for a while.
One of my favorite films boring.
I haven't seen it.
I liked it.
I need to watch it again to give a better take because that was a while ago that I watched it.
I knew it was going in and I thought it was boring.
Maybe that's why Jay.
Maybe that's why.
The thing is it was still if I fight had gone into that with no context I would still have thought it was boring up to the twist.
I took dinner played Super Mario Galaxy watched what if and took a shower and still going recommendation.
Pokemon Ranger Guardian signs is an amazing game and I recommend it to everyone.
I have never heard of that.
Pokemon something what what Ranger Guardian signs.
Yeah I've never heard of that either.
I'm more in rags costume.
I want to that.
All right.
Mola loves horror horror games.
Yes thoughts on Silent Hill its adaption adaptation.
Have any of you.
Well I haven't played the Silent Hill series at all.
I kind of want to know.
You should.
What if I don't.
What are you gonna do.
I'll whine at you.
You'll hear so much of it.
But it's good.
I mean like the you know what it's like you know what they need to do.
They need to remake the first Silent Hill just like they did Resident Evil 2.
Because like the game is really rough around the edges.
It's on the PlayStation.
And I feel like it could really benefit from a remake honestly.
Oh wow.
Look at this creamy sheave in super chats.
Raw please shut up.
You're so gay and have never been funny.
Go jump off a roof.
What.
What.
Oh my.
Who.
The super chats are arguing with each other.
What do we do.
What.
We need an anti-raw.
Someone who helps people get off roofs safely.
Oh and make him woke because lols.
Also high rags.
Hello.
So like someone who's like you know.
Has ladders to get people off roofs.
Well I'm trying to think of like a crazy woke take.
Like a taking wokeness to the so ridiculous extreme.
But I can't.
My mind is a blank.
I'm just suggesting that he gets people off roofs with ladders.
I think that's good enough.
And then as they come down.
He's like.
We need.
Get more women in films.
Guys like.
You can't say that's so dumb.
It's like it's just.
We've got plenty of women in film.
No.
All women vision of everything.
We need an all women Avengers film.
Also get off roof safely.
Mine was last.
I swear I got I got fucking screwed.
I'm sorry that it's just the YouTube roulette.
Oh look Jade you have girly peen.
We finally made it.
That's where I'm at.
All right.
I swear I was last to 50.
Can you check again.
At least win the popular vote.
Can I get some consolation milk.
Oh yeah you can have consolation milk.
I'm just going from the way it's ordered in this this super chat selection thing.
Which is supposed to be chronological.
Thoughts on Jared's new haircut bold bold.
That's a question to ask about Jared currently.
It reminds me of Yondu's hair head thing.
Oh it kind of works.
Yeah I see that Jared is back.
Yes yeah.
Oh don't don't Jay please say baby girl is a good girl baby girl is a good girl.
Okay do you like the girly peen.
There was two of those.
There were more.
There's some more.
Oh do you have girly peen.
Do you like girly peen.
Do you want girly peen.
Okay.
That's the the trinity of girly peen.
Yes.
Molly your Game of Thrones and Bridal Bridge was worth the wait.
I can't support you monthly on Patreon.
But here's some monies to keep making great vids.
Hashtag kick Jay.
Aw.
Very kind of you.
Especially the last bit.
Jay do you.
Oh yeah I read that.
You can drink my cream Jay.
Oh.
Oh thank you.
Cream Shave.
Oh I'm honored.
Unbridled praise of Amazon's the boys when.
I probably would have done something like that if I didn't have so many other projects to work on honestly.
I did like it quite a bit.
If Darth Vader is a rip off of Robocop does that make George Lucas a spider.
Yes.
Also Mola for a meme say hey Jay as if you're getting his attention.
Oh.
Hey Jay.
Yeah.
No I was doing it for video Jay you fucked it up.
I don't fuck it up.
I just replied.
Like the audio bite still works.
What is this.
The deafen the deafenestration of Ra.
The defenestration.
Oh defenestration that's a word.
Hang on.
What does it mean.
I can't remember I swear I've heard it before.
Damn it Jay.
I rely on you for this stuff.
No it's when you throw someone out of a window.
Is that really what that is.
I swear to God that's what that means.
Why does.
Why couldn't they put window into that weird at all.
Fener Fenster is German for Windows so maybe that's something to do with it.
How would you know that unless you have some thinking your heritage to Germany.
I lived in Germany for a decade.
I don't know what the link could be.
How would you know this.
I have never been to Germany.
Germany.
He he P P poo poo.
They has lots of AIDS.
Yoda.
Lots of them and put in jars and stuff.
I collect them.
What do you guys think of the PS4 Spiderman game.
I haven't played it.
I loved it.
Okay.
What.
What do you think is Spiderman on the PS4.
I've ordered it.
I ordered.
It doesn't matter what you think of it.
Every opinion is valid.
I think it's really good.
And I really enjoyed not playing it yet.
What do you think was one of the first games I have 100 percent in a long time.
All three of the bosses had the girly peen.
What did you think of the story and the pacing of the story and the storytelling of the pacing story.
It was mostly well paced but fell a little slow in the second act.
And the third act had three quarters of nothingness.
Anything else.
Oh graphics.
Good or bad.
Seven out of three.
There you go.
Is your this your subjective take on Spiderman PS4 from the J.
I've not played the game but it's pretty bad.
Pretty bad.
I'm basing that off.
I feel about the color red.
And Spiderman has a lot of red in his suit usually.
Pretty bad.
The next one is called hour five of twenty four.
Already on hour six.
OK I'm going to speed this up again.
One point zero two speed.
Have you guys seen Once Upon A Time in Hollywood.
I didn't get a chance to.
When it was in cinema it left really quickly.
But I'm going to watch it once it's available I suppose.
Also no.
Bingo card on website for when you guys cover a video.
Also I got to say I love the way metal says.
Oh man.
Yeah that's like his partially his catchphrase.
And the idea is that he often has bad things happen to him.
Like once put.
Thing that happens in life.
But even if it's to anyone else.
It's rough.
It's all very reliable.
Funny poo poo hee hee.
You guys think of doing a live stream road show your holidays to each other would pay for themselves.
Maybe down the line.
Future one day that could be kind of cool I guess.
So long swim to Florida.
Hope you're ready.
Hey Jay I loved your video on.
Off my ass off just kidding I don't watch your gay videos.
Also metal has AIDS Yoda.
Yoda says a lot of weird shit I don't remember.
Was Yoda aware of YouTube.
He has to be.
Like I think I know why now Jay is often silent and upset.
Yoda said his videos were gay.
Yes.
I mean I'd be pretty sad too.
You can't really contend with a ghost that can shoot lightning and blow up literature.
Well like I could disagree with that.
But I know he's like he's watching me right now he's here.
And like I can tell that the little fucker will shoot me with lightning if I disagree.
I like the idea that that's considered a very threatening and powerful thing he could do.
He could blow up literature.
Literature destruction.
In the afterlife.
Mmm Jay's faggot.
Hey Jay must destroy.
Of all the all the powers like that's not a great one.
He's like oh.
That's the limitation that they add to make him not OP.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the limitation that they add to make him not OP.
Is that he can only destroy literature.
They try to fill the plot hole.
It has to be books.
He's like put a book on the emperor's head.
No he can't.
I think it swallows some pages.
But that's how that's how it ends Ray like slow motion throws a book and then Ghost Yoda is there waiting for it to like hit Kylo so he could lightning strike it.
lightning strike it like a bomb yeah please watch the TIE fighter animation
like a meme you guys will love it guaranteed I think would be awesome for
memes itself actually TIE fighter animation I mean maybe and I don't know
it kind of depends on how long it is copyright and the fact that there's a
bit of an awkward element of playing someone's video and being like that was
entertainment and it's like you know I mean like we had you know we have to
like try and pause and comment I guess by the way did you see I posted to your
subreddit Kylo's cape is completely CGI that was you that posted that that was
me I remember being made aware of it on Twitter and then I saw that someone
else had posted on there so it's fully CGI yeah you can see in his reflection
that he's not wearing a cloak yeah oh yeah so for anybody who's still a little
bit confused what Jay's saying in the newest trailer or inside look for the
Star Wars movie Rise of Skywalker you see Ray and Kylo fighting each other and
Kylo has a cloak on or a cape whatever doesn't matter and if you look in the
reflection of the water you can see that he doesn't have one meaning that either
they they literally took the thing out in post from the water reflection which
makes no sense at all or his his cape is entirely CGI which is so strange but okay
I'm guessing it doesn't get it so that it doesn't get on the way of the
choreography fucking hell the amount of like that's gonna cost a lot of money to
CGI in a full cape for the full scene I guess not as much as it would cost to
teach I forgot the actor's name escaping me why is he called Kylo Ren no the actor Kylo Ren
shut up Daisy Ridley
yes Ben Solo Ben Shapiro imagine if Kylo Ren took off his mask and he was just Ben Shapiro
I'd watch it I'd watch the fuck out of that he does have a pretty evil glare to him
if your house is going out of water just sell it just sell it sell it and move
got a fun voice
hello gentlemen and Jay finally caught up to your big 5-0 and I wanted to say thanks to the
wonderful year of perspectives on the media we consume and all the base blessed memes
cheers to more may the rhino milk be with you why thank you Morgan
wait two people one person said hi wolf and the next person said hello wolf
I'm not sure if we mentioned him at some point I remember seeing this come in and I don't think
we did um okay uh also more look congrats on the game of thrones episode five rage it got me through
my flights today and much to my dismay gave me a migraine about how bad it was cheers
wow thank you also hi rags hi may the dawn bless you all uh luke the jedi are just as
bad as the sith because they allowed palpatine to rise me shows a clip of four jedi arresting
palpatine when they find out he's a sith don't have clips back then okay I mean forward then
I don't know they don't have youtube even though it was on record right they had little recordings
throw him a hologram be like the jedi were nice though or at least nicer
hey hey hey Jay do you think you could have convinced luke the jedi were okay if you were
on octu I don't think you're gonna convince luke of much I'd be like man the jedi don't like you
know want to kill everyone though I wouldn't want him to I wouldn't want to persuade him
the jedi okay I just like teach me the force Altman it's like you can sit here whatever just
let me do my thing just teach me how to like do stuff with the force and I don't care
think the jedi are evil all you want I won't be a jedi if that grinds your gears I can be a
a judi a judi I'll be a judi that sounds offensive in some way
I want the characters to say star wars or rise of skywalker in the movie I love when characters
say the title of the movie in the movie oh actually yes okay I'm on board with it it'd be funny
it would be it would be like the cherry on the cake
that's the same ray is like I'm falling and then luke for some reasons there and he's like
you have to rise star wars rise of skywalker
you're like oh no
can i have to say episode nine as well
star wars episode nine rise of skywalker luke says you have to rise star wars rise of skywalker
and ray just says episode nine
uh can I advertise my books here I'm pk sapphire on the amazon kindle store I do erotica about
clowns sheepsquatch and aliens also high rags hello if you want to read erotica about clowns
and aliens you want to you want to check out pk sapphire on amazon I guess are they in the same
rooms are they what are they in the same room the clowns and the aliens yes I mean it seems
so they're fucking apparently apparently the sheep the sheep squash is the go-between I guess
oh so like this pit roasting it okay well I can't say I'm not uninterested play super
star wars on snes I actually have was from vetoes oh I have played that I enjoyed it a lot
uh thank you big daddy jay you're beautiful
you just suck at cotor jay learn to play I fucking don't I'm doing well at it oh no it's just bad
anyway posh mauler from efap 50 oh chap oh my I have to rewatch I can't remember when I was posh
in that but I'll agree with you disclaimer the story is fine the gameplay is fine uh this next
one says fuck you jay I wonder what part of the stream this is replying to ER is not see
that he's the not see he can't he's blind still loving jay and still not watching his videos he
was in the efap blessing in 51 if it was rlm jay it would have had mike instead of the dawn
maybe you don't know you don't know man the lore's never written in stone
only in text which is kind of like stone but thinner and more breakable
do you guys disagree with anything I just said hmm
no my favorite snack is cynic snacks oh oh watching efap from the start well jay's first
appearance because why bother before that am I right what will be happening for jay's efap
anniversary uh that's a good question I want to do something for that um I could re-release
the I could release part two of the rhino like go back to criticizing with black path the video
the second part was just right oh bill prepared I don't know just meme meme the fuck out of it
but people are actually going to want me to do that now or you shouldn't have said it yeah
yeah uh finally caught one live I have to mention this when me and my girlfriend saw
the new star wars trailer we called Ray's double saber as saber prongs for how ridiculous it looks
yeah it looks a bit ridiculous a lot of people felt that way and then a lot of people were like
you just pick it on anything now you're just like you're so blatant you're so bad I love that one
visual edit that was posted like 20 times in the uh in the uh discord of the swiss army knife yeah
that was pretty that got like a bazillion posts it's like like molar have you seen this I guess
I've seen this it was important that they knew I saw it um rags isn't here so don't tell him I
called him a cat oh Jesus man molar I had a dream you showed your face in a video do you have a
short dirty blonde hair and wear glasses anyways praise don I do wear glasses and I think you can
call my hair color dirty blonde yeah clean your hair no not like that jay it's a different meaning
oh shit every word only has one meaning doesn't it oh no yeah imagine that not only is that how
it works but it's also first come first serve the first person to declare what the word means
it's in stone like fish means boot I thought you were gonna say like imagine like you use the wrong
meaning no like the thing has changed and now the thing you've said is true like that's what
he held himself to he like miss speaks and he's like um he's like what kind of vehicles can we
name uh I don't know like um like a shoe and then and then he's like oh no and then everyone's like
shocked and concerned and he's like now vehicle has to mean footwear now then he has to go around
driving a shoe I mean I'd be pretty impressed if he managed to pull that off he could probably
pat did something a shoe you can drive you're like why what's the point I actually have a video
reference for this it's a an animation called the magic portal and it was part of my childhood it's
fun go watch the magic portal stop animation that's good your opinion it's it's a cute it's
a cute animation oh is it now who is it I believe it's on the channel Keshen 8 you believe the old
phrase all comedy is subjective or is there an objective way to measure it also what's your
favorite comedy so like whether or not something funny is totally subjective
but there are parameters in which you could judge the construction of a joke
that's crazy breakdowns the elements of a joke like you can definitely say when there's not a
joke somewhere like that statement was definitely it all starts at what is a joke I suppose that's
yeah it's complicated as well yeah I'd like to think that there's uh I think a lot of comedians
would argue there's a science to comedy or at least to telling a joke I would say so yeah
because like you can joke about something and like a lot of a lot of jokes come from like you
know joking at tragedy but you really do have to construct the joke in a manner that is you know a
whole lot better than just saying isn't it hilarious that 9 11 happened you know you can't do that
and yet that'll work for some comedians if they yeah you can of course you can but it's just not
going to go over as well if you construct it better you know and some comedians do just do that
that's true you know bob say it was a pretty good example back in the day
probably got this question already but everyone's thoughts on the boys have you guys seen it
I haven't watched it yet but I wanna I just got Amazon Prime yeah just you can binge in like two
days I think it would take you you'll probably like it um uh best season of tv I've probably
seen since Game of Thrones season four I mean yeah I thought it was really good I look forward to the
next season um I don't know what else to say it shocked me in fun ways I really like a lot of
the characters I love what they did with the Superman knockoff if you will um I think there's
a couple of tisms in it there's a couple couple here and there it's fine I enjoyed a lot of it
I watched the series twice and then I'll probably watch it again once they get season two on the way
I guess good shit which had the noise yeah what what of it Jay what of it hmm what are you gonna do
I'm gonna write a complaint to your manager
feel sad as I was actually editing through the uh both first and second watch this
the reason I watched it twice was in case I'd missed it all editing and I edited
I was watching I don't think that's allowed I don't know how it works but I still liked it
uh which had the more tragic ending quality wise Steven Universe or Game of Thrones
oh I've seen what happened to Game of Thrones and as disappointed as I was by Steven Universe
like can't compete with Game of Thrones like systematically destroyed everything
what about TLJ what would you say
um no TLJ TLJ versus Steven Universe is a difficult one actually
I'm on Game of Thrones so I'm guessing you're saying Game of Thrones is worse than both of them
yeah Game of Thrones absolutely would you agree with that uh so the interesting thing is that
Game of Thrones is willed is thin rather than broken I guess while TLJ is broken
Game of Thrones just like pretends like the world doesn't exist and it's really annoying
but they don't necessarily have like contradictive information as far as I know
they broke all the characters though oh absolutely but
would agree TLJ breaks a lot of characters yes
Steven Universe doesn't break the characters it breaks the core premise of the show though
which Game of Thrones did in episode three TLJ does it break Star Wars as a whole I guess it's
an interesting question like the point I think I think it demolishes the characters it doesn't
demolish the premise yeah I I would probably say it's safe to maybe assume TLJ is the least
damaging out of the three because it sounds like Steven Universe is a bit of Game of Thrones going
on where it's like taking down a lot of things systematically not to say because TLJ is damaged
like I said the hyperspace for the force and uh I don't know a bunch this is kind of a really
complicated conversation to have actually I would almost argue that if TLJ was the movie that a
Empire is just back by the way um then it would be kind of equivalent because then it would have
demolished both the premise of the original trilogy and a lot of the characters there's
bits of blame to throw at TFA rather than TLJ I guess it's not really the premise it's the
resolution it would have destroyed but like the the Steven Universe finale destroys like the reason
that literally all the events in the entire show happen like there is a character who's
responsible for it and it completely like obliterates her motivation in like every possible way
you're making a video on that now is it or I am that's gonna that's gonna hopefully gonna
be out on Wednesday and then what's next for you is it finally ending the cinema since
massive it might be actually it might be that big mess well it won't be the ending it will be the
ultimate episode
taking too long man like I hate people who release like part of a series and then don't finish it
that sounds like a joke and they move on to something else yeah oh look at me I'm jay I'm
more interested in this other tv show that's broken instead of continuing with this movie
breakdown the fuck dude look at that silence he's got nothing to say I could make a car fly
if I had infinite power I mean I guess if you had infinite fuel you could probably do something
about that engineering if you have infinite fuel then can you you need the capacity to use the
infinite fuel yeah but what if you attach a whole bunch of things that rely on fuel to go boom
blow it up yes you blow it up it would fly for a bit
yeah sure excluding the last jedi what are your thoughts on ryan johnson's other films such as
brick the brothers bloom and looper I have not seen brick in the blood of the blue the blue
I've seen looper and I got pissed off with looper because it breaks its own rules significantly and
I was like insulted and then the movie was like stop thinking about it you think about it you'll
be all here all day think good about it and I was like oh you're one of these movies cool and I
remember people praising that line as being really self-aware and I was like fuck off what was the
line basically have you not seen it I have seen it I just don't remember a line they're in the diner
and um young Bruce Willis ghost of Gordon Leavitt is like this doesn't make sense this doesn't make
sense if blah blah blah blah and then Bruce Willis like stops him as time as a table and he's like
you fucking think about this all day you're gonna be we're gonna be here drawing maps and shit shut up
brilliant well done ryan ryan being like stop thinking about it just let me have my movie and
you're like oh okay pat i'm on the head I remember that movie that movie has some really cool stuff
in it sure it does like okay what do you want me to say is cool objective now yes so cool when he
shoots himself or that Bruce Willis disappears so cool where the guy gets picked up the scene
where the guy is losing his fingers in real time yeah that's a creepy scene doesn't make sense
though well it does by a certain line of logic it's not the one used in the movie oh you can't
be asked to go into that as well bringing up with Fringy once he wakes up soon he'll have all the
energy to do it he'll rip you apart with his australian uh anger okay i can't wait
uh also more congrats on Game of Thrones episode five rage it got me through my flight today um
i swear you've read that one out ah that's a good idea i'm downloading that
you're right i have read that one at
that brain don't think hiring an editor is the same problem Soviet Womble mentioned someone
edits a video for you but with a slightly different style slash humor and it feels off
yeah that's kind of where i'm at i mean i don't know is this such a problem having to wait for
my videos like i'll be around for a while guys i'm not gonna retire anytime soon this is kind
of what i wanted to do with my life so i'll be around you're not gonna run out of videos anytime
soon take me time and besides you can always ask me like if he's like oh i can't wait for his
video and blah blah blah because i want to know what he thinks about it and then you find out that
i don't really care about it and you're like oh oh no he'll be fine Dave Chappelle is the apex
comedian amazing yeah he's great he's great he's always been great good my new girlfriend the
unbridled rages of Game of Thrones and she loved them i think i'm in for a long relationship
good oh yeah go for it that's a keeper glad she enjoyed them the eye of Sauron is objectively
the big gaze did you get it uh-huh got it oh nice good good hi jay this is the super chat i promised
you on discord also can you use your manager powers to get rid of jay oh and with that if
i add that to the to the total you've just hit 100 jay so i can actually probably give that to you
now well thank you congratulations i will make a speech eventually would you ever do an efap on
ruby i don't know what it is it's a it's a long-running tv show by the roosterteeth guys it's uh i
don't think you would really like it it's that one where they think ruby is spelled with a w
yeah rooby ruby ruby
there's this um there was this video uh by jello apocalypse so this is basically ruby it's pretty
funny you ought to see it yellow apocalypse the one that made the really awful yeah the one this
is vote vote i don't care who you vote for but vote for my fucker oh dude have you not
seen that one is so great he portrays all of the bad and evil political people is red and all the
good ones is blue and it's like oh i wonder what you're trying to say yeah he like he starts it off
by by like trying to sound neutral and then he's like he's clearly got an agenda and he got a lot
of shit for it and then when he responded on twitter he's all like i got rid of all the nazis
fuck why does everyone say that a lot of people keep saying that whatever people unsub well
everyone nazi's sub to me anyway oh what's the channel i'm thinking of extra credit
yes that was definitely another one that did the same thing um and then quinton reviews did it as
well he said i don't want transphobes in my audience and there is a point when it's right
like you know if i was to see someone like um if i were to be like you know what i don't think
we should kill gay people because they're gay and then someone was like yeah i think we should
i was subscribing i'd be like i'm glad that that guy's gone if someone told you i'm not subscribing
because you don't believe in killing gay people i'll be like wow yeah i would post that to twitter
clearly there is a line at which like you know what i'm glad that that person is no longer here
you should search out that jello apocalypse video though jay you'll find it really fun
which what's it called it should be vote or something jello apocalypse vote and it'll be
a re-upload because he got rid of it i think i really like the this is basically series and
i've never seen anything else from them well in fairness right i don't know they may do great
work but that video particularly that's all i've ever heard of them and i thought it was so funny
well funnily enough to link it back here's my favorite video from them even univir yeah
um oh god i forgot jay hadn't seen lord of the rings i take back the big daddy title he should
be kicked immediately all right jay seems like your arc in season four is now that everyone wants
you to be either dead or kicked i don't know how this happened yeah that i think it just evolved
over time i think it was thanks to meme videos saying ever obeyed it out except jay
i think that is actually the point it started uh it's a reference to the channel generation
tech a star wars channel glad to me oh fuck i forgot the thing that i remember asking is
that a reference to something but i can't remember life of it was i'm sorry vlad please don't impale
me have any of you seen the dark crystal was like something about humans and aliens and like
uh humans first or something but i think that was it oh i'm happy with that memory i have one of
those um have any of you seen dark crystal aor yet some good puppetry also mark hamill voice is one
of the guesses uh no but i do actually intend to see that eventually i think wolf is very interested
in seeing but we're still going through buffing angel which we're nearly getting close to finish
now takes ages but it's awesome just saying i'm gonna use my influence as a youtuber to
make more buffy fans mark my words twelve angry men with women
they should do you imagine there would be a meltdown on youtube if they made 12 angry women
because sjw should be like angry women excuse me the the non-sjw or anti-sjw would be like
if we made 12 angry men with women what the fuck women don't get angry nobody wins nobody's
happy except like literally us we're like i want to see that sounds funny go for it it could work
actually i want to see i want to see like what's the perfect balance of something that no one would
be happy with being cast as all women i think we pretty much had it right there i think we nailed
it with that one yeah we already had it i don't yeah shut up me
12 angry women and this subtitle is it's that time above
at that point anti-sjw would be like wait that wouldn't piss off the anti-sjw
no they they'd be like is this a fun movie is this having fun yeah so as funny as that subtitle
is you can't use that if you if you want to make everybody mad you gotta leave it out what you want
to do is you want to first do it with uh 12 angry women and it's like uh uh and then you know release
it first without that tagline or like release the trailers first so the anti-sjw's get angry
then put a second trailer out with the tagline so the sjw's get angry and it's hilarious
and then a third trailer that mixes both and everyone's just confused no one knows how to feel
the the third trailer is like they're all trans women everyone's looking for that first review
on rotten tomatoes and it's 50 percent and everyone's like this could be the perfect film
to not cause any controversy by causing so much controversy it all cancels out and everyone's
just like i don't fucking know wow maula that's a sex to it was a racism because it's about women
any chances you'll get sisal says on efap i think i only only met him the one time um
i mean we we need to get um anaron for a proper efap episode first but uh i don't really mind
yeah if he wants to i believe he uh changed his mind about game of thrones he was okay with
episode three but then episode five happened and then um we did how that happened for a lot of
people i want to see these dummies saying art isn't objective to go to an art server and tell them that
oh they're they're no doubt out there and it's just i mean like what's that referring to like a
server in which art is displayed maybe maybe a nah probably like a discord where they like
discuss it or something i mean i would imagine that there might be a lot of art servers that
would be okay with saying everything's effective almost like depends on which kind of one you enter
someone in the chat is just saying call the movie 12 angry men with women
jay is correct about defenestration i'm in awe
goj that was from mongo's big things as well oh thank you will you do an efap movies on doom
annihilation well good news is that uh between my bigger projects i'm now editing a bunch of efap
stuff that i had left over and i've uh well i guess i shouldn't confirm anything in case
anything goes wrong but uh the doom movie is first on the docket for me to edit and
from what i've seen so far it's going to be a fun one i'm not sure when the one with the rock
yes and i'm really happy about it being an efap movie but um of that three lord the rings two
efap um minis and an episode of a tv show that will eventually come out ending things so lots of
bonus content but yes we do want to do doom annihilation as well because that was kind of
what spurred us on to do doom so plenty more things on the way my favorite dr zeus is hawton
gas is the who's and apparently yoda said that uh ray is a clone luke is the emperor all along
or anything they won't do have you seen major lee's tlj rap i have seen that major lee is such a
strange content creator he really wanted you to eflap that didn't he i think he did yeah um but
i just thought it was a bit too much it feels like it was just made going like oh the efap
guys are gonna really watch the shit out of this i like that he went after the fandom bet is though
i was just like oh that's not gonna work but there's literally like 20 30 of them that will
present counter arguments and rip into your video like it's they're really part of what makes them
hard to criticize is the fact that they're a unified community that want their goal being
the whole like we want star wars to be so even if you go for like their clickbait uh they would
probably agree and then argue that it's in favor of a good cause trying to start careers you know
it's really tough to take on that many people at once unless you can find a really good unifying
sort of critical uh aspect to go for i guess but major lee's video is weird like i watched them
respond to it it's it's just all over the place the only counterpoint would be new styles is good
which it isn't so you can't what could you say that shit thoughts on the upcoming eisenhorn 40k
tv show i don't know what that is going from the silence no one else does no uh milketh the longest
maneth of the toxieth broodeth always ask permission first but yes
utesh anyways zeth guy zeth that's from two different accounts and they did the same joke
i'm impressed with different i will bring order to the galaxy i will end star wars you're wrong
kylo the first order will fall and thus will be the rise of skywalker you what you suggested is
way less cringe than ours like i want ours i'm sorry i want it to be bloody bad uh jay is hodl
with rhino milk hodl milk yes yeah the only ways to save episode nine is to make it super absurd
and not take it seriously when pro tlj haters hates it we can say they submitted their expectations
i'll be so funny if the people who love tlj hate episode nine which i i'm guessing they actually
will i have a feeling it's gonna be the most hated one because of the fact that all the people who
hated tlj are already primed to hate it regardless and then all the people who loved tlj are probably
gonna hate it because of the fact that it's gonna go back on a lot of things tlj set up or did if you
know what i mean not set up anything did people who love tlj love force awaken i think they
typically say no i think they would typically say okay so there are like there are so many camps of
like people who love the original trilogy and then hey what the force awakens because it
disrespects to the original trilogy people who love the original trilogy and hate the last jedi
for the same reason but are fine with force awakens people who love the force awakens then they hated
tlj uh because it shits all over the force awakens and now we're going to get like loads
of all kinds of camps of that of like do you think they've not even included the multiplier of who
likes and dislikes the prequels oh yeah i mean do you do you think there's going to be anyone who
dislikes episode nine because it shits on the ot specifically like what do you think the
threshold has been crossed there because of episode like there's always more to describe
palpatine is in it dude palpatine oh that's a good point actually people yeah
that's absolutely gonna like turn people around who are fine with what tlj did to the ot
i'll have to see uh do the rhino milk part 2j you're a massive
god damn it j has been here for so long that the rhino milk has curdled and turned into rhino cheese
oh that sounds disgusting so i was helping this guy off a roof with my ladder when i started
thinking to myself shouldn't women get to vote twice like the obese who i love that came from
an account called ar excellent ah so this is the reverse rah i like it you should you should have
like the reverse take every time the other one has fight each other uh jsu was a poo poo pee pee
show to begin with it was but then it got better halfway through season one so i don't disagree
in the cinema since podcast they're not looking forward to the joker movie because they think a
white guy will go shoot people afterwards thoughts do they really have that take
damn man i always see that as like a joke take and i'm like no a lot of people have that takes
like realize that white people have killed people in movies for as everyone else we live in a society
bottom text bottom text they got rid of nazis as in not communists
oh i get it nazis can you not put the word nazi in a super chat
maybe not i remember the last time i saw the word nazi in a super chat to be honest with you
um the hound wanted to leave for sos to become a sellsword in season four episode four he doesn't
care about his brother at all and he kind of forgot about this but anyways yeah like i said
i stand by the fact that people were memeing the game bowl and then dnd were like hey guys
that was a biblical game ball we should like really do set that up okay reminds me of um
the writer fork or westworld apparently they changed the end of season two because someone
guessed it on reddit that's so dumb and i can't go look for if that's true but i am relatively
sure i read that and people going nuts reading the stupidest thing ever who was the original
ending guessed good is that the well obviously the important part is that it doesn't whether
or not it was good that's just such a stupid thing to do anyway there's a reason to change
the reasoning to change should be that it's poorly written or not laughing at the latest super chat
jay's like the prequels he's dumb and poorly written but i like him
jay is poorly written but i like
what do you have to say jay i'll agree um but yeah that actually brings us to the end of the
super chats and the end of the stream this near seven hours i wasn't this is honest i didn't say
at the beginning because i knew there's no point in saying anymore this was supposed to be a short
efap it's gonna be like three or four hours at most and now we have to like save stuff for later
yeah there's a lot of stuff i have to save a layer because life is weird they're not allowed to do
short efaps regardless do you guys i mean you come on the show a lot now so i don't even know
if it's worth plugging do you want to do you want to just hang out i don't know what it means jay
what do you want to do do you want to say you have a youtube channel do you want to say guys i know
you hate me okay i know um i'll watch a lot of the rings if you subscribe to my channel
there you go about that i mean all the links are in description of people who are like actually
curious not like a specific number of people it's like you specifically listening you person who's
like thinking oh he's not talking about me i am talking about you realize you're not subscribing
is the right reason i'm not watching one john right now listening to this in work no no don't
name them because that means uh um that means that everyone is not called john and be like dude
there's a guy called john listening that's like easy to then i can't manipulate people as well
we got we gotta go specific john i know you're in work and i know you're listening to this right
now and i know you know i'm talking about you specifically no but no but then if i'm being
manipulative which like clearly i am then just to say i'm just picking out all of the gullible
people are like oh god that's me i'm me you that's me they're calling you an extortionist
well i wouldn't disagree with that wigs big said i literally subbed so you'll watch load the rig
you have no choice now
oof oof said imagine being subbed to j oh sorry you don't have oof oof's approval
i want that approval so much so the new thing uh super chat said show the memes i'm gonna save
them all for the next efap and i swear to god if we don't get to have them on the next efap they
will eventually be shown it's just that i need rags to be here because if we don't have like
two out of the three hosts that constantly get referenced in them it's a little bit awkward i
want to try and at least make sure the people who made them have them seen by the people they
intended to be seen by you know even though a whole bunch of them will probably reference j
and he won't be here on the next one so i'll just be like hey j watch it okay and then you'll be like
not right j i refuse to respond to this did steven f his dad in an s u m o v get er on the line
oh yeah that felt kind of uncomfortable but it it's not sex like it's never been a metaphor for sex
um are you talking about fusion yeah because it totally fucking is no it's a it's a metaphor
for love but like yeah yeah that sounds wonderful it's never been it's never been sex it's never
been like implied that it's literally sex that's just like oh people do this when they're in love
like this just where your mind goes okay well then why did pearl cover uh steven's eyes that's a good
two other characters were doing a fusion well hang on we know hang on but that is what pearl
would do though like that's the way she gets but why about it's not about it's the same thing that
drove pearl to fucking manipulate gana and diffusing with her loads of times oh my god
like that that those are the same aspects of that character
it pearl is fucking weird about fusion uh seems like fusion itself is weird
pearl is weird pearl is weird is about rose and fusion and like
paul feels about fusion the way she feels about rose because she confused with
yeah to be honest though i'm not really one to really criticize steven universe too much i see
i've seen like some good points by eros videos but like i i've tried like about five episodes
steven universe i nev i'm impressed that you managed to make those points having seen five
episodes yeah not bad i've only seen y'all's videos on it and i am totally not biased whatsoever
in saying that even universe sucks right jay yeah it does now i can't yeah i can't flat out
say that it sucks i'm i just i'm just not really able to say that yeah i would i don't care to say
much about it because it's a weird show from what oh yeah it's weird as fuck yeah but the
points that said that fusion isn't sex i'm not entirely convinced based on what i've seen so
i'm sorry but i have to agree with das you're wrong jay
hey uh yeah anyway like the the links to these two gentleman's channels are in chat if you
actually would like to uh see what they're up to if you haven't already subscribed like i said you
you guys have got quite high levels of appearances along with metal alex and fringy i think they're
the five now the pentagon of the appearances with guests that makes sense yeah yeah and
hey we'll watch steven universe but not lord of the rings what the fuck
fuck i was watching steven universe for a long time that's normal i watched it like
yeah i watched it to procrastinate um studying for my final exams in school
steven universe is like buffy but you can definitely skip episodes but i won't well i
haven't seen buffy either so i might have to now well one day i'll make you
the ending of steven universe
oh yeah skip the ending there saw it no don't skip to the ending skip the ending regardless
thank you for watching season four episode one yeah i went there yeah yep that's yep um who knows
where season four will go uh thank you so much for the fine donations and the um the the meat
and some artwork and stuff will definitely be shown next episode possibly first depending on
what guests going on at the time i mean part of the reason why we brought on regular guests today
was to do memes because new guests get very confused at all of the the rhino milk either way
it's been very fun ladies and gentlemen thank you for watching and um we will see you next week
hopefully on a sunday or a saturday or friday depending on what's happening more information
to come in time but um is there anything you guys want to say next week looking forward to it
that's really all i got had fun today poo poo poo i'm glad you guys came
i'll i'll i'll just goodbye see you guys have a good sleep good toodle pippa cheerio
bye
