Well, I've just gone live, but if you've got the stream up,
I've even got a little bit of fan art on the front now instead of a video
to make it look slightly better, you know, instead of a slightly more professional.
Let me let me take a look.
A surprise, to be sure.
What a welcome one.
What a welcome one.
What a welcome one.
They didn't put an A inside of the A.
That would have been difficult, though.
Yeah, I don't know if that would work.
I guess they probably they probably had a vision of that.
It would have looked like every frame.
Ah, pause.
I like that. I like to pause on the P, though.
I've a couple of people I've spoken to, like other YouTubers where they find out
like where I'm like, oh, you can come on to Efap as a guest.
They'll be like, does that stand for anything, by the way?
They'll always go like, yeah, every frame of pause.
Then they go, oh, like they're always pleasantly surprised that it's not just Efap.
It's electric, electric, jerk-a-loo.
But it's an F. How did you get jerk-a-loo?
Because.
All right. That in-depth analysis from Rags.
That's why you got to give the people what they want.
I hope I hope audio levels are good as well.
Should be.
I mean, you're maybe.
Yeah, yeah, I look at Discord and it's telling me good things.
So just just let me know.
Chat, say something like we hate how loud X-person is, you know.
We see how we sort of have a logo.
It's wonderful. Who are today's guests?
It's just me and Rags, if that's OK.
She's. Does it always have to be about a guest?
Are we not good enough for you?
Despicable, but we will.
There are a few things that are with with mentioning.
So in the last stream,
we covered a YouTuber who has since not taken it very well.
First of all, he deleted comments on his video.
Then he deleted the videos or at least made them private.
And then he made private basically all of his videos, which
you could obviously ask me in Rags or whoever else was covering it at the time.
Who was in that pocket?
It was me, you, Alex and cinema, cynic snacks, that's it.
But none of us would want that, because the whole point is that everyone
gets to say what they want to say and discussion is encouraged.
But that is the unfortunate result.
And, you know, you might be like, oh, well, is it just that he just can't take it?
And he went off like, well, I wish it was something of a sort of
he just didn't want to come on or whatever.
But he said like that he's receiving racial slurs, insults, trolling, angry.
Like all this horrible stuff.
And I'll have you guys know that at the end of the FAP, I was curious
and went on to his video and went to newest comments because I wanted
to make sure that it wasn't like toxic.
We never, ever, ever want that from this podcast, obviously,
because we wouldn't want it for ourselves.
Very supposed to be self-evident, of course.
But we I checked it and there was a lot of stuff.
There was a top comment that had like 12 upvotes already.
And it said, hey, who else here from a FAP with a happy face?
So I don't think it would count that as a as a troll, right?
That's just that's just a happy thing.
Someone I remember reading someone say it's interesting that you, you know,
criticize Wolf for throwing criticisms, insults at people.
And then he like simultaneously does it to everybody he's covering.
Like, that doesn't seem to make sense.
And then there was a couple of essays, like people being like, OK, at this point,
you say this at this point, you say this.
And there probably was I didn't see them myself, but I'm happy to admit
that probably is a couple of like really angry people or racial slur people and stuff.
But he sold it as like everybody was doing it.
And I was just you can check it on Twitter.
I was just like, that wasn't the case.
So, you know, he said at the end, he hopes we're proud of stopping his videos,
which like how exactly should me and Rags even respond?
It's like we responded to your assessment of my video.
So yeah, man.
I mean, it's all stuff you said and then uploaded YouTube about people.
And so we have this perspective of like.
So some people like you should have a disclaimer.
You should at every point when covering
share with people that you should absolutely not talk about this person.
Then there's the other thing that's like, don't cover anybody
below a certain amount of subscribers.
It's not principled, really.
Like, the idea is when you upload to YouTube,
you put your voice out there and you have to accept whatever consequences
come as a result, because freedom of speech is cool.
But freedom from consequence is a little bit more complicated.
Now, the comparison would be that if I
made a video on, let's say, Joseph Anderson,
which I technically did with the soma ones, and he like put out a tweet.
Actually, I got a better example.
I make a video on Hbomberguy and he puts out a tweet saying
that I didn't understand and made it wrong.
And I have bad criticism.
I don't then nuke my channel and say he shouldn't do that
because I have a smaller channel.
I just accepted it because it's part of the response sort of thing.
But I mean, this guy didn't didn't only put out his video.
He directed it at me and Wolf and he gave insults to us.
So it's just like.
How is it that it's not 100 percent fair game?
Yeah, I'm not exactly certain at what point is it.
And I've been saying this for a long, long time.
At what point are we not allowed to respond to people who insult us?
How big do you have to be?
Well, what's the cut off line and how many subs are we allowed to have
before we can't respond anymore?
And as since since just said, surely a disclaimer couldn't hurt.
And it's like we will happily say what we we don't want to happen or do.
But like if we had like an intro video for Efap, which could happen eventually,
it could have a couple of highlights and then like a quick explanation of what it is.
We might throw a disclaimer in there.
That would make sense.
This is like a casual stream to get started up where we just watch some videos.
And the the idea is obviously that if there are people out there
who are going to go attack other content creators with no other interest
in other than annoying them or hurting them, then I doubt a disclaimer
from us is going to stop them.
Because like we do talk about it during coverage.
We're like, this is not something you should do.
It's just leave people alone.
Obviously criticize people because that's what we're doing.
And that's what we get. But yeah, it's annoying.
It's unfortunate.
The guy is because it's funny having since since in the in the comments,
because I would say that he took criticism fantastically compared.
It's like, that's how you do it, because we would have had should be on
if he really wanted to, and you could clarify some stuff.
And we may have been able to like promote him, make a friend out of him sort of thing.
But it just went really badly.
And like I said, his most of his channel is now privateed.
So there's nothing much we can do about it other than say
you don't need to do that.
And that I don't know if you're going to say you shouldn't insult people.
Don't insult people. Just remain consistent.
Because I don't think like what's your take on insults rags
when you respond to people prepared to get as much as you give.
And I'm OK with insults.
Oftentimes I can ignore them if if you had at least got a strong argument.
Otherwise, it just seems like you're doing it for just to annoy or to insult.
Right. Like as opposed to sort of switch it up and stay like a lot of people
when they're responding, they'll throw funny jabs or smug responses
and you can sort of get a laugh out of it.
And as long as you can see that there's that angle, you're fine.
But, you know, to say absolutely none and then do it yourself, that is a bit weird.
And yeah, people will be brutal.
Like this is the thing when I, you know, if I responded to anybody,
me and Rags will get bad, bad negative comments on these effaps alone.
Yeah. So we're bad people.
But anyway, you know, it's there's nothing much more we can do.
And yes, we we were absolutely in favor of people being nice in comment sections.
But me and Rags can't control people.
What else can we say, really?
And honestly, if you make stuff on YouTube and you get into this
side of it, really, if you're on YouTube at all, you just got to you got to have a thick skin.
I mean, honestly, it kind of starts with you.
I mean, it's only is if it doesn't bother you, then it doesn't bother you.
And that's probably the most you can do to help yourself with this kind of thing
is that you just can't you can't let it bother you.
Because no matter what, somebody out there is going to say something mean
or somebody is going to make a response to you eventually.
And if you just and if you just let that stuff get to you on a personal level,
then it's not going to do you any good.
Like, I don't know if YouTube is the platform for you if you are not prepared for this,
because this is something that I'm sure Rags knew and I certainly knew well
before even making a video.
Like, it's it's a tough world on YouTube.
You're going to get a thicker skin as every day passes or you'll
you know, you could do a lot of different things like Tall Biscuit gave up his
comment section and his subreddit and his Twitter until they were like.
Curated so that he wouldn't get as bothered and everything could be filtered,
which again, like, that's fine if that's what you want to do.
But, you know, you'll get all kinds of stuff on the Internet.
It's rough, but we did not encourage anybody to rip him to shreds.
But I mean, you know, he called he called Wolf an asshole.
He called me an idiot.
He called Nostalgia Critic a whole bunch of things, which again, just opens him up.
Because, you know, you get youtubers who are really inoffensive
and they don't even talk about people ever.
They only talk about games or movies or whatever.
And you'll find that they rarely attacked, but they still will be.
You'll get people who it doesn't matter who you are.
People will people will say mean things about you.
It's just the way people are, especially on the Internet.
But yes, people are probably curious.
What's what's the plan for today?
Well, we're at, you know, episode 15, which is hugely significant.
It's a big number.
It's you separate it out.
You get one and five and you add them together.
That's the the 15th is.
Like, like, you know how every every like anniversaries have like a different
like a stone or a precious metal or something like that?
Ours is the 15th traditional anniversary gift is crystal.
And it's not like an anniversary, but we are at the big one.
The one five.
Yeah. And so if you separate it out, it equals six. Right.
Yeah. And the most popular song 15 years ago was in the club by 50 Cent.
That's true, too. You have to consider these things.
It's very important. So you take that and then you take the
you separate them out into one and five equals six.
You take that and then you take me and Rags, which are two people.
That's two. You take that off the six, which is four.
And I got four. And what name?
That's almost my age and dog years.
What name is four letters long?
Rags. That's true.
What other name is four letters long?
Adam. Adam, that's another one.
Yeah. Bill is it?
Hello, everybody.
I was going with wolf is a four letter word.
I mean, oh, yeah. What do you know?
That's the perfect.
It's like it. Yeah.
Look, I mean, I think that Quinton is he's got some skeletons in his closet.
He doesn't like those orange people, you know,
I think he I think he's got a little bit of an issue with them, with them orangies.
Well, I was going to say that's from his older days.
He doesn't like people bringing up that that moment, that time.
Do you just make that by the way, because it's so many plans.
I made this four days ago.
Of course you did.
It's the it's perfect.
We're lucky Quinton will never touch a fap.
He's far above that.
He's like Joseph.
We can do anything we want and say anything we want because he won't.
He wouldn't dare.
He wouldn't dare reference that statement.
But yes, welcome back, Wolf.
Do you know, it's been 31 hours of fapping since you've been here.
Thirty one hours.
Yeah. I mean, considering the the response to Quinton, that's not really a surprise.
Right. That's like a third of it.
You mean, right?
Really sorted that out.
Yeah, I watched all the Quinton one after I left.
Yeah, then I watched the TRO one, but I couldn't finish it
because he was really pissing me off.
Not because it was 11 hours.
Well, no, I mean, TRO was pissing me off.
Oh, in what way?
Wait, wait, you need all the shitty excuses he was making for Quinton.
It's like we have video evidence of him constantly
taking rags out of context and misrepresenting his arguments.
And then you're just going to sit here and jerk us around
and not admit that he's just a piece of shit.
He was very clearly a bit emotional because the fact is, like I told you,
I gave him all the timestamps he needed so he could in the same way
that you do for like prosecutors and defenders in law.
Like you give them all the evidence beforehand so they can prepare defenses.
I was like, here's here's all the biggest things we're going to hit on.
And then he was just like, oh, yeah, I didn't check it out.
And I was like, no,
because now it's awkward because you just have to deal with it.
Face found it.
I'm sorry. Someone said Wolf's back Bilbo Baggins.
I like that the Bilbo memes, they're still going to Bilbo.
The Bilbo meme has survived despite so many people having no idea what it is.
Yeah, it's amazing.
Do you think the majority of our audience doesn't know what the Bilbo meme is?
I genuinely and this allowed minority that keeps the Bilbo memes alive.
I know of it.
I'm more familiar with Rhino Milk, though.
Oh, yeah, that's a popular.
Your internet died right as the Bilbo meme was being born.
Yeah, yeah, that's a shame.
That would have been a great.
We should just cover that video on some kind of anniversary,
like the 100th epap.
We'll just cover that video again.
And when the Bilbo thing comes up, people will be like, oh, my God, I finally get it.
Maybe we can do that as the Christmas special.
Bilbo Baggins, a very special Shire Christmas.
So how are you, Wolf?
Is there anything you want to sort of catch everyone up with or?
I'm doing good.
I haven't been on the Internet too much late.
Oh, maybe I should rephrase that.
I haven't been on YouTube too much lately.
Obviously, I haven't been on Twitter or Facebook, which is actually great.
It's like, wow, the normal world is much more peaceful
when you don't have to hear about people arguing about stupid shit.
No one cares about.
Oh, I heard the creator of Spongebob died yesterday.
And that's really even Bloomberg.
Yeah. Yeah. From ALS as well.
I was I was curious about kill someone at 50 something.
Because it's always at 50 something.
It's usually not, you know, going to be some kind of horrible disease.
And it's just like, oh, yeah, I was a little upset by that.
Wouldn't have found out if he didn't send me that
tweet from Shinobi about how he was like losing his mind.
Yeah, a little bit.
He hasn't I don't I don't know if he's said anything since.
But we did.
We've done our best to cover that in the opening of this.
This is nothing more we can do.
I'm afraid we'll just not cover it again, even if he covers us,
because apparently it's I don't know, it just like ruins his psyche.
And I don't I don't particularly want to do that to him.
So if we'd known this in advance, we would totally have covered
something else, people, OK?
Didn't realize that was going to happen.
I feel sorry for Nostalgia Critic a little bit like he tore into him.
Stupid, because it's like you you made was it four or five videos on us?
Oh, I think it was like, yeah, four and then update like an I'm sorry or something.
Yeah, and I'm sorry that really wasn't much of an apology anyway
and wasn't even warranted in the first place.
And on top of that, I guess he had like numerous videos on Nostalgia Critic.
So I think his whole channel is like, yeah, I mean,
his whole channel is based on shitting on other YouTubers.
I mean, because of his video, I went and watched Nostalgia Critic's
a wrinkle in time video and it was good.
Well, we're covering him in future, apparently for the Van Helsing thing.
So that'll be interesting.
Yeah, we got to watch Van Helsing.
Jim, yeah, we got loads of players.
Ifap is just brimming with ideas because it's booming.
Have you guys heard a certain Anderson of the Joseph variety
has put out a new video that basically spits in everything that we consider
to do with art, not directly.
It's like he mentions us, but nothing in art is his objective.
Oh, well, he says subjectivity is implied.
So everything is subjective.
And even if it doesn't sound like it is, it's it is.
Now, what did Joseph Anderson ever know when you think about art?
Summer is not a horror game.
How dare you?
What? What? What?
Yeah, it wasn't a huge shock, by the way, Freddy.
Someone's I saw someone put a super chat in.
Wolf's channel is actually already in the description, as well as I took
a screenshot of of his his PFP is going to be in the thumbnail.
So a couple of people would have found it surprising.
But a lot of people would have been like, why are they
going around? Wolf's coming back, right?
What the fuck? What's going on?
Well, so, yeah, I don't know if you want to say anything else, Wolf,
before I sort of set up what we're actually here to do today.
Yeah, sure.
We'll say a couple of things.
I haven't really done much on YouTube, so I'm kind of out of the loop
on a lot of things.
Been watching all the apps, though, aside from quitting halfway
through the tiara one.
And yeah, I've been looking at the comments
and looking at the chat, and it's just nice to see all the people
that were like mentioning me.
It's pretty cool to me.
You have been missed.
Yes. Thank you, Chad.
It's pretty much what was a collection of our three fan bases.
I pretty much see it as anyway.
Yeah, we do have a lot of crossover.
Makes sense, considering we like popped into all of each other's podcasts.
Let me remove Adol Quinton from the screen real quick.
It's too late. It's too late.
They'll be there forever.
It's like when people hold their hand up to the camera.
And it's too late, mate. Once they get you once, it's over.
Oh, if I forgot, I deleted my last profile picture.
I got to redownload it.
Just go hunt another one down.
Yeah, it's nice that I think because you put my
my current profile picture on the thumbnail, right?
Oh, the whole that's the thing, Rags, I haven't talked about.
The whole water is wet thing.
That's gone crazy.
There's people have started like a war about that.
Not only on YouTube, but on Twitter as well.
And like I keep getting at it with videos that explain how one side is right
or how the other side at this point, I'm just like, yeah, I'm good.
I'm backing away from this now.
The whole water is wet.
I'm just going to say water is a liquid from now on.
And someone pointed out water is a liquid.
Yes. On my post to Joseph Anderson,
I actually said that there's some things that are just factual.
Like water is a liquid
because I have clearly accommodated that now into my into my language.
There's loads of polls I've seen
and they split so far down the middle.
It's crazy like this.
It's like a fundamentally a semantic thing, which is fine
because we're going to be doing that at one point later today
with a whole different subject.
But fascinating to watch.
And yeah, there is a question I want to ask you.
Well, that's not actually related to the water.
And that is we're going to run this.
It's like almost like a bet, but with no winning or losing.
Who is going to be the most inconsistent character of episode nine?
And your choices are everybody but Kylo,
because that's the obvious one.
Oh, who took the Kylo one?
No, it's that's the you can choose whatever you want, except Kylo,
because everybody would go with Kylo if that was an option.
Oh, just to give you an idea.
We got me and cynic snacks went with Finn.
Alex has gone with Poe and Rags has gone with Hux.
Hmm. I'm going to go with Ray
because she changes her personality every 11 minutes.
Does she? From what to what?
That's the million dollar question, isn't it?
She doesn't know what she wants to be.
So you can never really nail down what she's supposed to be.
Ryan Johnson doesn't know what she wants.
She's going to be either. Exactly.
Well, I was going to say, I would have said she doesn't change necessarily
just because she's like nothing.
She's nothing bigger the whole time.
I think so, too. That's kind of how I feel.
But I mean, you know, it could.
This is the thing that that could be the interesting point
that maybe in this one, she's so radically different to the other two.
She's very consistently.
Period.
Consistently what?
Consistently inconsistent.
Some people thought I said Adolf Clinton in the chat.
Adolf Clinton.
Yeah, it's it's close.
The names are the names are similar and they are kind of fascist in nature.
But no, not quite.
Fun fact about my profile picture, this wolf, I actually met him.
Hmm. Yes.
And Colorado, did you get his consent?
And use this for your profile picture.
Look, he's not like Anita Sarkeesian.
OK, he allows you to take pictures of him.
It's beautiful. He even plays tug of war.
He's a fun. He's a fun wolf.
Yeah, I kind of wish we'd been doing this since the beginning of the
app to get all the guests takes on this.
But from now on, we will we will ask that for every guest.
And we'll see once we'll see episode nine.
And we'll probably have an efap about episode nine.
Like it would even cover a video.
We'll just talk about it, I imagine.
And man, it'll be fun to figure out who was right.
The reason I'm going with Finn was because I'm almost certain
he's going to be this like radical hero type thanks to the end of The Last Jedi.
And it's just going to be like bizarre compared to everything
he's been through before, as well as I probably would have chosen Finn
if you didn't already, because I can't nail down what they're trying to do with them.
Well, I think they're all really good choices because I think like Hux,
for example, is funny because it depends on which Hux they're going with.
Are they going to go with The Force Awakens Hux or The Last Jedi Hux?
We'll find out.
And then you got Poe, who what the hell is Poe going to be at the next one?
Leader man, maybe. Leader man.
You never know with these things. You never know.
Maybe they should just like completely rip off what he was in Ex Machina
since he was actually a character in that movie.
Man, I like that movie.
Yeah, I like that movie, too.
But yeah, that's I mean, that's that unless unless there's anything else
we can talk about why we're here today.
Either either. Yeah, OK.
Well, as many people will be aware of
practically like I don't know the actual timeline, but it's like on the day
that we'll fucking left or went on his hiatus.
I think I think it was like two days afterward.
Eric Taksin's video came out.
You may have heard of him.
He did a response to Wolf's video on forced diversity, which many of you.
We use we use the word response very loosely.
I think it's because I think it's because he feels like without
diversity hires, he wouldn't ever have a job.
I think I know you get that.
But we'll we'll we'll do it.
Shall we bring forth this?
I was going to say just the setup is that this is why we're covering this
is that we'll just come back and fucking that's going to be the main thing
people want you to cover.
I know that it's been a while, but let's be honest.
Me and what rags took fucking ages to respond to a Quentin and T.R.O.
So this is this is this is expedient compared to that, you know.
And yeah, this is like a Jared Genesis review.
You know, you got to marinate on it a little bit.
So it's amazing when it comes out.
We were going to jump right into it, but he's disabled ratings.
And so before, you know, I see you, Jack, see you go.
You're jumping onto the hole.
Oh, what a what a coward or trying to ignore criticism.
No, no, no, no, no, no, he's he's got a video explaining why
because it's much more complicated than you may think.
So we're going to check that out first and then we're going to look at the response.
Shield your eyes, everyone.
So, yeah, that's that's that's about it.
So just let me just take down the.
Prepare thine selves.
So this is the this is the video.
Everybody's in line bootstraps.
I just yeah.
The only thing left to say is, is everybody ready?
I suppose he's going to explain to us why he hides likes.
Could we?
I like that he says why he hides likes rather than why he hides dislikes,
by the way, I love the first.
I just look at the chat.
I want to see.
Oof, oof, oof, dear God.
Sweet, a lot of sweet Jesus's.
I know.
OK, OK, Chad, I want to want to hold your hand.
We're going to we're going to do this together because we're a family.
So what we are looking at here is the bastardized love child of YMS
and Freddie Mercury in his late stage of AIDS.
And he's going to tell us, you know, it's not a very nice thing.
It's not a very nice thing to say about some body with a facial disability.
Not to mention it's like Wolf is back.
Yeah, here we go.
This is definitely evidence of Wolf is back.
Yeah, so, you know, I don't have any qualms
with with criticizing his looks or anything else about him,
mostly because he shit talks to me a lot in his video.
So you're fair game there.
Yeah, yeah.
Unfortunately, he did.
He did want to call him Eric.
Want to call him Eric, but I also want to call him a Rika.
I don't know what gender he's going for here.
He's his gender.
I believe his pronouns are he they.
I do believe that is how he likes to be referred to.
So do you think that hair is real?
Because it looks really well, I'll tell you what, it does look like
that low quality of a wig.
I was going to say that does look like the kind of thing you would buy.
But it might just be because he hasn't like styled it at all.
I don't know if you have hair that long.
I would have thought you'd want to do something with it,
as opposed to just leaving it as it is.
But I mean, everybody's up to do it.
Just do what I did.
Shave your head bald and grow a really big beard.
And you'll be fine.
And then just do Kratos like this way.
So my friends even photoshopped me as Kratos.
I mean, my hair is that long.
And I always I always comb it.
Really? Well, yeah, combing and put it in a ponytail or something like.
Yeah. But I've got like facial hair and I trim it at the ends
and I make sure that it's all in place and that it's neat looking.
I mean, I have people to impress in my life.
Man, I have to completely reevaluate the image I had of you in my head
because I didn't expect the old one.
Oh, I'll send you a pic of me later.
But I'm like, I don't like anything like I used to.
Oh, really?
That's the thing.
Like you're in your tiny behind the profile picture.
Bitch, I'm gorgeous.
Freaking not even half an hour on the Efap where he returns
and you guys are sending nudes to each other.
Look, it's been a while.
This is true. This is true.
Go a bit to release.
But anyway, he is going to tell us why he likes to dislikes.
And I'm not saying that if he had allowed them,
his wolf, his video on wolf would show a bit of criticism.
But it's interesting that they're gone.
So anyway, I love that people are calling you rag in the chat.
I can't believe that kicked off so much.
I don't know who that is.
So I I don't know who rag is.
That's a totally yes.
Rag, I rag is a person I don't know.
I don't know who rag is.
Can I be rag and you can be the rags?
That could be confusing.
Yeah, who was it again?
Oh, yeah, it was one of Tarot's editors, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which is that's what I mean.
It's such a weird drag.
Apostrophe. Yes.
Wolf, ragged skull on wheels.
Just feels like it came out of nowhere with that shit.
This belongs to rag.
Rags, rags is ragu.
Ragi, which all right.
Anyway, so Eric is going to enlighten us as to maybe why we should all hide
likes, you know, if this is the way, you know, for his music.
He doesn't hide the likes dislikes.
Yeah, yeah.
You're going to you're going to discover exactly why he hides likes.
I want you guys to before we get into his video on me, just
just think to yourselves why exactly who who are the kind of people you think
he typically hides likes from.
Well, all right, Nazis.
Absolutely.
Like you.
I'm going to go with I'm going to go with Russian 4chan bot trolls.
This is one or the other.
It's always one.
Well, it's it's me.
It's he did one on the amazing atheist.
He did one on Paul Joseph Watson.
And you are all right.
And you're all fairies.
Like, that's how that works, right?
All right.
Hey, JW is a furry.
Absolutely.
Yes, and Sona would be
something I imagine my show is those like about to cry eyes.
I'm thinking a raccoon.
Yeah, yeah, that could work.
That's so weird.
We haven't even started this video.
We're already bored of it, but yeah, we should.
All right.
Maybe when he starts talking, it'll get worse.
Yeah, his Sona name can be Joe Paul's if Watson.
Paul said, I love you guys.
You guys already.
You all while we are all ready.
All those pots and lovely.
Oh, yeah, dude.
Well, you got to shave his head.
They will compare you to a skin.
And now you're a you're a freaking you're even worse.
I just need to get like a tattoo on my head now.
A big old was ranking.
And then you can say, no, no, no, I converted to Hinduism.
This is a symbol that represents the four wins.
No, and then you can call racism on them.
I converted to Kratos ism.
Do you see that, by the way, not to go off topic.
They were trying to.
I thought you were just a faggot.
They're trying to classify Islamophobia as racism somewhere.
I saw it on Twitter.
Apparently, like some government is trying to
treat Islamophobia as racism.
And what you see there, there are black Muslims,
Middle Eastern Muslims, Asian Muslims and white Muslims.
So race is against every race in the world.
Then we're all one race under Allah.
Yeah, I was at France, Sweden.
I don't know. You guys probably know it in China.
I'm going to take a jab at Sweden.
Almost positive. It's then.
But to absolutely get get on, get on track.
Let's let's hear it from Mr.
Eric, shall we?
Sala ala ala wasalam.
Yeah.
Good afternoon, viewers.
This is my new camera.
And I'm taking this opportunity to do a little vlog,
you know, like like the normal big boy YouTubers do.
Are you a boy or are you a girl?
Question.
Well, did he misgender himself?
Well, he did say he did say him.
They correct. So.
So all YouTube's are hymns.
I believe that is how it works.
So shouldn't it be?
This is our new camera.
If his pronoun is they shouldn't be.
Is he saying that's how you'd want it?
He'd want to be referred to in the I forget what the name is.
You know, like how you could refer to rags as they if you were like,
no, when is this?
I don't fucking know where it's work.
You kidding me?
If you didn't know what my gender was.
Strange, which is strange.
He's doing how how often I flop my big ass dick around.
But if you didn't know and you were still unsure, I get or if you just heard
the name rags, you could be like, oh, I don't.
That's that's kind of that's kind of
it's the name androgynous name.
I can go either way.
So I'm just going to call rags they until I know ragger ragger.
So the females are the feminine vision rags rags rags is
golem hold of your name.
But yes, anyway,
I have been getting a lot posed in both nice and mean ways is
why do I hide likes on my on my YouTube videos?
And why specifically the hearing, you don't hide likes.
You hide dislikes.
Well, I guess he hides both.
There's got to be someone out there who liked it.
Come on, right.
Come on. Essays as well.
The likes on on the albums, but not on the essays.
Well, yeah, it's it's not it's not to to get get rid of any sort of descent
that I might might end up being exposed to that.
Yeah, sure.
No, guys, I don't hide likes
just because I don't want people to shit on me for my stupid opinions.
I get the likes and the dislikes.
It's still functional.
It's it's hiding them, not disabling them, as many people say.
It's basically the same as the same thing,
because you're the only one who would know.
Well, you know why, right?
Because likes and dislikes help you in SEO or like, at least it'll push you video.
So if he was to disable them, it would actually be detrimental to him.
But if he simply hides them.
I'm sorry, is he pulling a Brett Keene?
Because I distinctly remember his wife being like, now everyone,
the likes and dislikes are still enabled.
You just can't see him.
That's what that's what it's for.
It's to get the benefits of likes and dislikes, but to remove,
you know, the downside of literally doing a Brett Keene.
OK, why does both the impression of Eric Texas sound like a gay hag hill?
Well, you'll come to understand this is this is not a very straight
person we're looking at here.
He might they might be sorry.
I didn't want to didn't want to look at their shirt.
Yeah, that's an interesting shirt.
But, hey, you know, yeah, that's an interesting shirt.
Look at the color of their wall.
I was about to say.
Their wall is there is some law here.
We've got a book in the background.
I'm not sure what the deal is with that.
And then the can you see the cameras like tilted kind of weird in the bottom left.
Is that a camera?
I assume it is. I don't know.
I don't think that's a camera.
I think that's it looks like a speaker, like a really small.
Oh, you could be a speaker.
Yeah, it looks like a speaker.
Maybe like a face plate isn't on or something.
I can't tell what that is.
I don't know either.
Chat, tell us what that is so we can find out the tax and law.
Yeah, they're the real law experts.
It's a metronome. Oh, oh, that makes sense.
You know, I remember I used to these two.
Yeah, I used to use a metronome when I played piano
before I could learn how to keep my head like an adult.
The will building for tax is much more consistent than Jared Genesis.
I will say that. Well, so far, but we already we know so little.
That's the thing. That's true.
We know. This is just one angle.
Who knows what's going on?
Well, I don't make sense that piano.
One guy in the shop, God damn atheist vote box.
That's some deep law.
Look at atheist vote box.
I can still see exactly how many dislikes a video gets.
And I can get the pithy amount of feedback that you get from that.
So it's not it's not really it's not for any reason like like that,
like any of any of the shitlords would have you believe.
It's actually because.
I don't think any of you really need to see what I don't think you need to see it.
But it's perfectly fine to see it on his music video.
It's not because it's not because I don't need to see it.
It's because you don't need to see it.
I just like the he's like, I'm your dad.
You don't need to see it.
He's going along.
Like, mm hmm.
Oh, like what it means is that someone's raid is working.
Like that's the feeling.
No, it doesn't.
Wow. See, you were right.
You were right.
The raid, someone's raid is working because somebody dislikes your video.
It's because someone rated your video and those dislikes aren't really dislikes.
You know, what's funny is that after he made this video, I noticed a very high
spike and dislikes on my video on force diversity.
Only problem is, is that it has so many likes that it doesn't matter at all.
Also, are we supposed to really get into what is what one needs to see?
Like, do you really want to go there?
Eric, we don't need to see what we're looking at on screen right now.
We didn't need to see anything from his channel.
What is what does that even mean?
Nobody needs to see anything on YouTube unless they're, you know,
in a situation where the video would save their lives.
I don't know if that's nonsense.
If people dislike my video, if there are a lot of dislikes on my video,
it's not because I have shitty opinions and can't back them up.
It's because I was rated by Russian Fortran alt-right bots or whatever.
Fortran, Fortran, Fortran, Fortran feedback that you get.
Like if if it has a lot of dislikes, it means your raid is working.
OK, what do you I thought?
What does dislikes mean on Wolf's video?
I got it. I got it.
So it means that every video in history is only disliked if there's a raid.
Yeah, you know, Rebecca Black's Friday.
That was because it was a raid.
Everybody actually loved that song.
Oh, yeah. Amazing song.
The trailer for Battlefield 5.
Everyone loved it.
It was just a raid.
Yeah. Call of Duty Infinite Warfare.
The most disliked video on YouTube.
Everyone loved the Battlefield 5 trailer.
It was just a bunch of Russian rights activists.
Ninja Russian about Russian trolls ninjas from outer space.
Makes sense to me.
And I don't I don't think I need to give you that that consolation.
That's that's not my responsibility.
You can. That's so fucking sorry.
We supposed to find out for ourselves if you disabled.
Stop being able to get that information.
It's just so fucking pathetic.
You just you if something has dislikes.
It's because a bunch of people raided my channel and disliked it.
There's not really a reason.
It's not because of me.
It's not because of anything I said.
It's not because of the agency of my audience.
You can't even give them the credit for that.
It's not. I mean, he said he can't make a bad video at this point.
He's practically said, yeah, I mean, look, raids do happen.
We're not saying that they're just non existent.
However, he's trying to say that like any mass dislikes
against his videos must be a raid.
But remember, he has he makes music.
I don't really care about any of it.
I don't think it sounds good, but whatever.
That's subjective on my part.
But he doesn't disable the ratings there,
but he's saying you don't need to know that information.
Well, why do we need to know it on your music videos?
No. Why did they accept videos?
I guarantee you when he was if he talked to anybody about your video
and it's I doubt he looks at the likes dislikes and goes those dislikes.
Yeah, it's just a raid.
Wolf's video was loved by all.
Like, I wonder if he applies this to other content creators,
probably just himself, which that makes you go.
He really thinks his videos would never be disliked.
Are you kidding?
So, Wolf, how did you feel when you found out
that people were raiding your Black Panther review?
I mean, clearly, I'm the second coming of Hitler, so
I felt it was just fine.
Well, let me see, Quinton's closeted.
He still needs to come out a little.
I fucking hate Trump.
Anyway, back to my movie review.
God, that was such a bad segue.
So funny, though.
And find out for yourself.
And the other reason, like, if if I do get raided, you know,
what happens is that that big old dislike bar.
What if you're rated by somebody who likes you?
What if what if you what if H because these friends with H bomber guy,
as far as I know, and that guy has more than 200000 subs, I believe.
So if he promoted you and people raided and started liking, would you be like,
no, no, no, no, we have to disable it because that's positive rating
and that's negative information?
I mean, you can use the same exact logic with seeing disabled ratings,
because whenever I see disabled ratings, no matter the video,
I immediately don't want to watch it.
Yeah, me, too. I'm the same way.
If comments are disabled and likes and dislikes are hidden.
That's the thing. You have to hide them.
By default, they're on.
You have to go when you have to change that.
Such a you have to go out of your way.
It's more work.
Besides, yeah, everyone can be rated or not rated.
Therefore, ratings mean the same.
Was like, why do you you specify that these particular so weird?
Everybody just lets the ratings open and they'll mean what they mean.
And nobody hides ratings if they're very, very positive.
But that will color people's impressions, too.
Yeah, just the way that you want.
So I mean, it sounds like you kind of want it both ways.
This is the stupid and needed Sarkeesian method of we're going to hide it.
So we don't get harassment.
So it's that I wouldn't even read you.
I wouldn't even read you.
It's impressions, you know, like I hide it so you can you can make up your own.
I can make up my own mind with the likes and dislikes shown.
Does he think the disabling ratings has no effect on someone's assumption about your video?
If I see that, I'm like, oh, yeah, that makes me think worse of you in your video.
Yeah, like it gives me a negative start to watching it.
But, you know, yeah, man, that's like the worst impression you can do is to hide likes and dislikes.
And I think disabling comments is even worse.
But the number two is hiding your like and dislike ratio.
Oh, I want to encourage just just a bit of a bit of a conversation in the conversation.
Well, what about your music ones?
Does it make sense?
Does it make sense, Eric? Eric, please.
Well, no. Can you imagine if you went on Amazon and you wanted to buy, like, say a new keyboard
and they hid the the five star ratings or all the star ratings?
Sorry. And you're like, well, is this piece of shit plastic keyboard
just as good as this other hundred dollar keyboard?
Well, they don't want to color your perspective.
You could go in with a fresh, you know, fresh mind, an open mind
so that when that keyboard arrives, maybe it's good.
Maybe it's a piece of shit.
Exactly. This logic doesn't work, Eric.
If you want to tell it arrives, which means we're left to assume
what the real reason is, like, yeah, I did from criticism.
Let's be honest.
And, you know, it's just a fact you look at his channel
and all the people that he criticizes who he hides the dislikes from.
It's typically people that are either right wing
or someone he perceives as being right wing.
Why don't you just get in the comments as well at this point, considering
they can be they can make someone biased, you know, or disable everything.
Oh, absolutely.
If the logic is only I want people to go in
without anything changing the conversation.
Like, hmm.
Just seems odd to me.
I don't know how much more he's going to add to the comments, I think
forcing someone to actually verbalize
their distaste for my content instead of just coming up.
I bet that he disables or not, but hides cons that he doesn't like.
Does he think that if you take the ability away,
he didn't even take the ability away to do it,
but he thinks that if he disables the ability to see the likes and dislikes,
people will be forced to verbalize their perspective.
There's plenty of people who will go, if I can't actually make comments,
then I'm just going to fucking can't can't leave a rating.
I'm just going to leave it anyway, you know. Yeah.
I is like most people don't leave comments anyway, especially when it comes to
you know, really, really either way.
All they do is they just like, dislike and be on their way.
I see the logic that if you if you make it so that no one can see
how much is liked or disliked, then they'll have no expectation going in.
But if you remove likes and dislikes from a video on it
from being visible on YouTube, that has way more of a stigma.
Like you should be aware of that.
Oh, yeah, there's no way he doesn't know.
And it's not like that's a new stigma.
That's been around since as long as I've been on YouTube.
And I never even if I make the worst video ever and it gets no likes,
I never want to be disabling ratings.
That's it's a bad precedent to set.
Hmm. Actually, type it out
is is healthy.
You know, it'll it'll get it'll get the mind wheels turning.
So is it unhealthy to rate a video now?
What about the people who are ready to get ad leaving comments?
And then what about the music videos?
Eric, doesn't mention.
I mean, have you looked at the YouTube comment section on like any given video?
You're saying that the your mom gay comments are just as constructive
as like leaving a like or a dislike. Mm hmm.
I mean, come on, dude.
Stay consistent or at least make an attempt to stay consistent.
I know that's and it has nothing to do with how much hate the video gets.
The the the likes are hidden as soon as it goes up.
I so you'd call that preemptive, then, Eric.
That's what that would be.
You're going to have to take my word for it.
But the funny games video I just put up is is very, very warmly received.
And then the the lights are still hidden.
And when you just show it, if it was true,
you could even do it now.
You could you could just be like, yeah, here's a screech.
I mean, even a screenshot could be faked.
But I mean, on that one, I think it's kind of funny
because the people on the other side, they like to frame it like I'm.
What other? Oh, the other side.
The other side, you know, he's saying politics.
I mean, maybe I got to say, I just think he means normal people on the other side.
Oh, no, I'm sure for the sake of this video, it's about the other side
being the side that is concerned about seeing the ratings.
But I mean, this this channel and and the the the the people
that he's a part of the crowd of it's it's definitely an air of like,
oh, this is this is left versus right, isn't it?
This isn't just neutral.
Which is weird because everything gets turned into that.
I'm just saying is an assumption.
I'm not saying it's true. It's just that.
Well, it's like that's the thing.
Like forced diversity isn't really a left right issue.
Like the like Tim Colle was an elderly hates forced diversity.
It's totally a right issue.
He makes his point in the video.
You know, the video that shows about a minute of my 18 video frame was concerned.
This is only going to last like another minute or so
because he starts talking about other things.
So we'll learn to go as far as he explains this.
So you can't say it for it.
Someone said the other side of what the wall,
the wall of notable likes and dislikes.
I'm censoring dissent.
But I can still see it.
It's not for me.
It's just no one else can.
Who cares if you can see it?
Nobody else.
It's like, you know, does any idea what the hell it's received as
other than if they go through somehow highly doubt that he actually goes
and like pays attention to his own ratings.
The it's not for me to be shielded from any kind of criticism
because I can still see it.
That's exactly what your dummies.
You dummies, you'd have to go and switch it out.
Still, you'd have to go into your comments.
Like you've disabled the easiest way to see if people have approved
of your video for face value.
Yeah, man, I mean, that's that's immensely used for me as a content creator.
That's very useful information for me to have, because you cannot use comments
to really be a primary judge of whether people like it or not.
I mean, the comments in tandem with the ratio can tell you a lot.
That's why a Joseph Anderson video, for instance, could have way more likes
than dislikes, but the comments are very mixed.
That's true.
Yeah, there's lots of interesting things you can get from a like dislike ratio.
Yeah. Next topic.
Well, that's it, I suppose.
So if anyone's wondering why they can't see likes and dislikes on his video
that covers Wolf, it's because he doesn't want people going in to decide
on how they feel about it before they've seen it,
even though they could just look at comments anyway.
So I really don't get the logic.
And like I said, well, like we've said, it's opened up on his music channel
or music videos, sorry.
The whole thing, the same channel.
Well, yeah, he's got a double standard because his music isn't going to be
controversial from like people don't like the music style or they do,
depending on, you know, person to person.
But that's, you know, that's something completely different
when you're criticizing someone and you disable the likes and rating
or the ratings and comments.
Or one or the other doesn't matter, then that shows you're a coward.
Well, he called you a dummy.
So how do you how do you feel about that, Wolf?
Yeah, big dummy.
I feel deeply offended, but not quite as offended as having to look at him.
So I guess I can let it slide.
I figured since they're stacking up, I should jump into Superchats
before we get into the main event.
But yeah, I've seen a lot of Superchats.
So let's let's start with the, you know, I'll read these out
and take careful consideration with each one.
Your mum gay.
So thank you very much.
First, have a live Efap. Excellent.
Early Efap is best Efap.
I could see why that would be something people would want.
Love yourself more than currently working on a critique of the alien quadrilogy
and was wondering what advice you'd give for new critics on YouTube.
Complicated because everybody has a different method of breaking things down.
If you were like me and like to do the whole chronological thing,
then just make sure you watch the film a couple of times.
Look at what other people are saying and redraft.
Redraft is like my my core advice to anybody.
No, first draft.
No, first draft for everything.
Who cares about a disclaimer?
Stop babying people like they have no agency of their own.
If you don't if you didn't tell them to directly do it, then that's that.
This is the Internet.
Words can't hurt you. Deal with it.
I mean, there's a principle I can respect.
If someone said I don't tell my audience to do anything because it's on them,
I could understand it.
But there is the argument of what if the disclaimer even knocked off five percent of the hate?
Is it not worth it to throw it out at that point?
What do you guys think about that?
I mean, I generally I say it because it's just so you can just say it really quick.
And it's not like it takes up a lot of time.
It doesn't cost us anything.
It's kind of why we say it.
And it gets it in writing for if you have to defend yourself
or if you feel like you should, you're going to be like, I just I tell people not to.
I mean, what do you want me to do?
But it is true.
People don't don't do it.
If somebody was desperate to even use like the worst thing possible to insult somebody,
they're not going to be stopped by me rags and wolf saying, hey, don't go do that.
That's just not going to happen.
They want to do it anyway.
But I can respect the idea that it can help, you know,
considering the doggo in Wolfo, I feel like you missed a chance
with the name every frame of pause with pause.
Oh, that's that's actually in my my video where I where I show this out a bit.
It's not it's not a it's not a not a pun.
It could be it could be we could have been cringy like that.
But yeah, I feel like a couple of people would be like,
we we respect ourselves a little bit too much to do that.
Rags is banned from Twitter.
Yeah, I don't know if anybody didn't know that, but that is true.
Um, unfortunately, I most spent banned twice now.
I know I most appreciate good stories because my parents made me read the book
before the adaption, what most contributed to your love of good writing.
Hmm. Well written things.
I mean, it's kind of tough to explain, but I guess you just be like,
you you see a story run out where everything makes sense
and you see another story that has similar elements, but they just fuck something up.
And so you're automatically just like, man,
I would really have enjoyed that if they'd actually managed to.
This is like the sort of a younger version of it.
If you if you were a kid, you'd be like, a story was OK.
It's just that they like why that thing that thing happened.
Then you start to figure out that it's it's the consistency element and the
what when things just happen because of the whatever the fuck is going on.
Like, like I watched the Three Musketeers recently.
Paul W.S. Anderson's one.
It's like 2011 or something, man.
That's like one of the best examples of fuck it,
which is going to have some fun.
Nothing needs to make any sense.
Who cares? And it's all filmed so like standardishly.
But it stars so many actors.
You got like Mads Mikkelsen's in it.
Orlando Bloom, Mila Jovovich, Ray Stevenson.
I forget one of the other Musketeers names.
The kid who was in 310 to Yuma.
There's a there's a the the Musketeers themselves are famous.
How the fuck did you get all these people for a movie that's so like
and it's just like that's just how it works as long as it makes money, makes money.
I think it actually did make a profit.
Which is which is important.
You could be like, well, why care about good writing if it doesn't make any more
money than some of this badly written, sometimes less.
And so there's a lot there's a lot to it.
I don't know if I can if either of you have anything to add.
Matthew McFaden.
Who's that? Luke Evans.
Oh, Luke Evans, that's the one.
Yeah, he's the one from the Hobbit and a couple of other stuff.
Oh, he was in.
I think he was in that Dracula Untold movie.
Yeah, that that fucked up, didn't it?
Oh, man, I'm I'm still convinced that's a comedy.
The tomatoes is not good for the movie.
But yeah, I don't know.
It's just you sort of create a scale in your head.
And then how else can we explain it?
But when me and Wolf watched a House Hill, Hill House, fuck's sake.
Add some other things.
Stop saying it wrong.
The Prestige or all the Cornetto trilogy.
You get the sense of like, oh, my God, this is what it means
when someone puts so much effort into it.
This is the effect good writing could have.
This is what they were talking about.
We binged the Lord of the Rings trilogy and we were just gushing over it for 12 hours.
Yes, it's not rags.
It's rag. Get it right.
All right. Sorry. Rag rags.
That'll be awkward to keep if we just keep calling you rag.
Mr. Rag.
31 hours, Wolf.
So don't worry, you only missed one.
It's actually quite amusing.
It makes sense.
Azide lives.
I mean, this is completely unplanned.
So I would have thought that they would have been surprised.
Some people have been saying that it's late as well on Discord.
I was like, this was never even mentioned like you're late.
Why are you closed?
Welcome back. Yeah.
So welcome back, Wolf.
Hello, Wolfman Wolf.
You beautiful bastard. Welcome back.
Punished Venom Wolf returns.
That was on the post.
Dear Lord.
Was that a guy?
Um, he it's one of the well, I mentioned I'm going to be doing
a slight rebranding of my channel, and that includes a name change.
And I still want to keep Wolf in it.
And so he's been very insistent and calling me punished Venom Wolf.
I think the punished is because of the whole situation.
I don't know where it's because of Venom comes from.
Oh, I've never played Metal Gear Solid.
So I have punished Wolf would be a.
Oh, I assumed the Venom part was because of the Venom movie.
Oh, yeah, I kind of got that, too, but I just don't know anything about Malgate.
So yeah, I don't know anything about it either.
So but you will be you're going by Wolf now, right?
That's the plan.
Yeah. The Christian Wolf.
God, who?
Yeah.
Well, Jesus, Wolf, or Jesus, Wolf, Wolf for Christ.
I was thinking I had a couple of names floating around.
I haven't chosen one yet, but I was thinking one was the word of Wolf
for two reasons, one, because I discuss writing mostly.
So word Wolf. All right. We got that word of Wolf.
Plus you could be like, wow.
But also because I think it would be hilarious
to see the Patrick Willems is out there that would be like, look at him.
He thinks his word is truth.
I mean, you're not telling yourself the right opinion or anything.
Yeah, but I think it would be.
Well, we could do a if you get a few suggestions,
we could do a bit of, you know,
get the public to see what they think of what they want.
Yeah. Whoever sends the highest super chat with a name suggestion is okay.
Oh, God, could you imagine?
Well, I've already had like three eight wolf Hitlers. So
eight wolf Hitler.
Maybe that's not the best idea.
Who are you going to who?
What is the who's the artist you're going to commission
to draw your new faggy wolf?
Well, it's the same guy who did all my other animations.
He's still around.
And I commissioned him to do a new profile picture.
So I should have that before the end of December.
Oh, God, you're actually black, aren't you?
Maybe, I don't know.
God, right. You wish you list.
Yeah, how dare you.
But no, it's just going to be a more standard looking logo.
I'm like I said, the furry things gone.
It's dust in the wind.
It's like the dust from Thanos snapping his fingers.
Oh, so he can come back in the sequel.
Yeah, no, no.
He's like looking like that.
It's like a Dave Bautista who doesn't come back in the sequel.
Be a disgusting degenerate like me.
No, it that that led to unhappy things.
So pure tism.
That's what it led to.
You know, the Jared Wolf, the wolf reborn.
Oh, I actually like the wolf reborn that kind of harkens back to
the Wheel of Time books, and I really like that.
Probably won't use it just because it won't make too much sense.
But that's a nice name. I like it.
Well, no, you can be like you could be born again, Wolf.
Because you're saving veering too close to the Christian wolf again, isn't it?
Yeah, Wolf is Christ, the Vigilant Christian Wolf, the Vigilant Wolf.
Wolf, we miss you also.
I have no idea how much I have left, but y'all deserve this.
Love you all. Thank you.
Welcome back, Wolf.
And have a great podcast.
Brop sniff Billbong buggers.
So that's a new one.
Billbong buggers to you too, sir.
Defending Wolf by Jared Genesis.
Yeah, that's actually.
Have you seen that, Wolf?
Have you got anything?
Yeah, I saw that like when he first came out with it
because a bunch of people sent it to me.
It was a good laugh.
Good old Jared. I can't wait to cover him again.
But I guess that's a fair question.
Are you planning on bringing your podcast back?
Yeah, it'll go under a different name, but it'll still be,
you know, the same same thing that we usually did.
Uh, you guys should have Dunkey's Octopath video.
I have no idea what Octopath is, but Octopath Traveler.
Who's Dunkey?
Dunkey's like a more like a comedian.
YouTube and make short videos that can sometimes be insightful.
Let there be Wolf.
Uh, let's just see what it was.
Is there any other Pokemon?
Let's go videos, Octopath.
I'm not seeing an Octopath one.
Where is it?
Do, do, no, no, no, no, no.
I've given up.
Paul Wolcifragons?
What? What?
Paul Wolcifragons.
Oh, Paul Wolcif what?
Paul Wolcifragons.
Hmm. The dog father.
Hey, that actually kind of makes sense.
Just like make a note if any of these like.
The dog father works.
Yeah, the wolves are the ancestors.
Wolf's back.
I missed you so much.
Welcome back.
Also more to watch Jared's video on you.
Love you all.
Thank you.
He taught me so much about film and writing.
I actually did.
He said he'd like to have a beer with me some time.
And I said, I'm on board with that.
Who?
Jared.
He made a video reviewing me essentially.
Yeah, he was asked his opinion on me.
And I don't think yeah, like he was pretty nice about me.
So I was just like, yeah, man, it's all good.
You stole Jared from me.
I mean, you can have him backwards.
I've been keeping him warm for you.
Plenty of Jared to go around.
That is true.
He's a little wider than most men.
Yeah, thank you.
Now you need to do a Jared video with daddy being back.
Jared will riot.
If I was going to get all those, I imagine.
Your new name should be Yeet Wolf.
Yeet Wolf.
Yeet Wolf.
He needs to know that while he was gone,
Rags changed his name to Rags.
That's true.
That is not true.
Is it an apostrophe there now, Wolf?
I already know the lore.
Wolf is back.
Rhino Milk, I'll be boys.
I love the memes that our community has thought up of.
If it is, SidSidzledoJ helped, so helped propagate it.
He kept saying it when he was on the podcast with us.
It's just like, he's definitely gonna
code the bebud this one.
But yeah, I mean, if we ever make a t-shirt for eFap,
the first fucking design is probably
going to be related to Rhino Milk.
Like a Rhino like kicked back against a couch wearing
an eFap shirt, drinking some milk.
Got a glass of milk.
More hype for episode 9 on Bridal Rage, the actual movie.
I mean, it'll be fun to get all of our coverage on that.
That's going to be an interesting time of next year.
Can't spell wefap without eFap, Bilbo Baggins.
That's true.
Hello there, Morla.
Hello.
Welcome.
Wolf is back.
You guys are a major inspiration for my work.
I only have two subscribers and three videos
besides my Eric Taxon response, but still thanks.
Interesting.
I have heard that there's a couple people who've responded
to his response to you.
But now we've got Wolf himself taking a bite.
Get it?
Taking a bite?
Metaphorical response.
You're a wolf, so.
J.R.A.
Wolfine.
No, I can't do that.
No, Wolfine.
Is eFap just J.R.A.
Tolkien, Wolfgang.
It could work.
It could work.
You've got to shove it a bit.
I'm not nearly as good a writer.
I could never be as good a writer as Tolkien.
I won't pull a George RR Martin and steal the RR
and then pretend I'm as good.
That's like your opinion.
Well, my opinion is his latest book was a piece of shit
and I wasted money.
Oh, shit.
He's got a lot of backlash for that, hasn't he?
Yeah.
And I don't care at all, because people
started mass flagging downvoting his book on Amazon
as soon as it came out.
But honestly, he deserves it.
You can't.
I mean, come on.
It has been seven years since you wrote the last book.
The last two actual Song of Ice and Fire books you wrote
are shit.
And it's like the new book isn't even good in the first place.
I was a standalone.
I tried to give it a chance because I was like, oh,
I liked The Night of the Seven Kingdoms.
It was a nice little read.
But no, it's like reading the history textbook
about fake things.
And it's like, I don't I don't care about fake things.
History book about fake thing.
Well, yeah, I mean, that's essentially what it is.
It's like it's not like the Silmarillion
where there's like an actual narrative to it.
It's like, no, it's just George blabbering on about shit
that we already know.
People have already pointed out that he like ripped
entire chunks out of previous books
and just inserted them, like copy pasted them
into Fire and Blood.
And then, yeah, I don't know what else he was expecting.
Maybe if he would get off his ass,
stop editing these books from other people
that no one cares about and actually write
The Winds of Winter, he wouldn't have had all this backlash.
But you know.
I remember thinking about Winds of Winter being out
before I'd even fucking seen the show yet.
And I remember thinking like, it would be so interesting
if the show manages to beat him to the end.
At this point, it's like, it's impossible for him
to beat the show to the end to study for that close.
I don't think it's possible for him to get to the end.
That's another thing, yeah.
It never ends.
There's no ending, it just goes on forever.
This E-fap is so juicy, me and Bilbo bagged in,
stopped milking the rhinos and looked at women,
and looked at women to come watch.
Now that's a lot of memes in one go.
That's like a lore dump for anybody who hasn't come watching.
I loved that when I was watching that E-fap
and they were like, who was it?
Major Lee who said that?
Yeah, he said, well, I complain about there being women
when you can look at women.
It's like, oh, man, they called me the sexist.
Oh, you did finish it off with saying,
I could watch this three times and not get bored.
It's wonderful.
Odd question, what does you guys take on musicals?
You better, it better be a damn good musical.
Yeah, typically I don't like musicals.
There's a couple I really do like though.
I can't think of any I do like.
I mean, it's just not really my thing.
I like Sweeney Todd, there's others I've seen
I know I've liked, but I can't remember the names of.
There's a TV show that has a musical episode
that I thought was neat.
I think Scrubs had a musical episode.
It's different if they are in person.
Like if you're watching a play or something
as opposed to them being on TV.
But yeah, typically I find them quite distracting.
You need like, funnily enough, like Buffy does one
and it's they have a narrative purpose for it going on.
It's a supernatural TV show.
So obviously they can do something about it,
but sometimes it can knock you right out.
So you're just like, what is this shit?
Why is everyone running around dancing and singing?
This is weird.
And people are like, just enjoy the music.
And you're like, all right, all right.
So it's okay when they censor other people's opinions
of them and they never wrong.
It's just that everyone is raiding
like an infestation of cockroaches.
Actually, yeah, thinking about it,
he simultaneously claimed that he was like,
I'm not even getting hate, but I disable it
because of people's dislikes,
which would only mean they're raiding.
Like, okay, Eric.
Seems like a room is my favorite musical.
This creature is an eyesore.
How dare you say that?
Wolf has already just come back.
Sorry about that.
Call yourself a cackling jackal.
The cackling jackal?
Yeah.
Sounds like it wants to be a tongue twister.
It's just one way to way,
like cackling jackal of something.
Crackle.
Glad to have Wolf back.
Now I get to mix up yours and Rags his voices again.
Is everyone dreading the new Lion King?
They're gonna subtly push an agenda
and look at the plot and characters, I can feel it.
It looks so fucking bad.
Like Mauler, I went to you and I was like,
this is bad.
You didn't seem happy.
No, I was not happy because I really liked the original.
And this one's like, first off,
it's stupid to make a live action Lion King
when there weren't humans in it in the first place,
but the art doesn't look good.
I mean, the animation's like fine, but...
Well, I can tell you, I have not seen the trailer yet,
but the idea, I'm just like, mmm.
Yeah, no.
I mean, not only that, but Netflix announced
they're doing Cowboy Bebop, a live action Cowboy Bebop.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, they're doing it with Avatar,
The Last Airbender 2.
Yeah, well, ER on Twitter, as a response to that news,
had a picture of writing Netflix into the death note.
And I was like, no, what about Hill House?
He was like, I'm sorry.
It's a price we have to pay.
We have to save it.
You have to pick up all the good TV shows and run away
while he kills all of Netflix.
No, we have to save the good ones.
That's funny.
Death Note was good.
I liked that one.
Good to have the three of you back together.
The gang is back.
Time for some fun.
Also, this thing looks like the spouse of Cousin It.
That's actually...
From Adam's family.
Completely forgot Cousin It.
Yeah, that's an interesting take.
Yeah, it's...
What did I say?
He looks like a Monty Python woman.
I guess we have to say, like disclaimer-wise,
leave him alone.
But again, anybody's welcome to make fun of me,
Wolf and Rags, by the way.
Go ahead.
Look, I'm not saying go harass him.
I'm just saying, leave a nice comment
telling him why he's wrong.
And leave a rating.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, and dislike.
This is like, nothing matters.
Uh-huh, I just forced you to pay attention to me.
Excellent move, CinemaSins.
You showed us.
What's your thought about Black Panther
just being a worse vision of Lion King?
Is there a lot to connect those two films?
There's a little bit, I guess.
Like the family member taking over after the...
Well, no, because he didn't kill his dad.
His dad died before the movie started.
What?
There's a couple like...
There's like a very few vague similarities,
but not enough to really...
Are there lions?
Justify them.
There are panthers.
There are canes, I will say that.
There are panthers, that's close.
All right.
It's in Africa.
Did you hear about Bill Maher,
what he said about comic books and Stan Lee?
I did, and it's...
Yeah, it's like, oh, wow, Bill Maher.
It's like, I couldn't...
Every time I think I couldn't like you less,
you defy my expectations.
You subvert my expectations.
Just wrong timing, massively wrong timing.
It's like, I used to like Bill Maher,
and then he, I don't know what happened to him.
I don't know if he got brain damage or something,
but it's like, you don't shit on Stan Lee
the instant he dies.
People have a lot of trouble with that, honestly.
Like when Tall Biscuit died,
you get the standard like people who hated him already,
hating on him, just like, well, they're assholes.
But do you guys, I can't remember if I showed you it,
but like Boogie was like, yeah, it's sad that he died.
Also just want to let everyone know
he threw me under the bus.
It was like, why?
No, don't do that.
Not now, it was bad timing.
Yeah, I still get, like even when I wasn't logged
into my YouTube account, I would still get like
recommendations from Memology,
and they would all be on Boogie.
And it's like, oh God, Boogie,
why are you still doing this?
He says a lot of strange stuff.
I'm not gonna say what it was,
but like Memology put out a video recently
that I saw, it's just like fucking hell.
Some of the quotes, it was like a public podcast,
Boogie's talking about some of the stuff he'd get up to.
Oh, the PKA one?
And I was just like, what the fuck?
I don't know, man.
There's a time and a place.
It comes under that whole like,
I'm absolutely honest, I'll talk about anything.
It's like, sometimes you don't talk about something.
Sometimes you keep it to yourself.
There are some things I'm like, ah, yeah.
Where do you think a Spyro ignited, I love it.
I played it twice already in completion.
That's your opinion.
You gonna make a video on it?
Probably not a standalone.
I probably, once I come back,
I'll like make a best and worst games of 2018,
do the same thing with movies
I've done in the past couple of years.
And I'll throw Spyro on that list.
Boom, we're focused on some bigger projects.
Well video or not, we need to know if,
we need to know what you think.
Is Spyro a video game in your opinion?
No, Spyro is love, Spyro is life.
If you guys wanna see a bad movie,
check out the recent Robin Hood movie,
The Guards Pull Out Riot Shields
and The Peasants Wear Beanies and Jacket Vests
despite taking place during the Crusades.
What?
Oh no, is it gonna be one of those,
I was gonna say, it's gotta be on the nose, right?
It's probably one of those absurdist sort of history things
where it's just like, have fun.
Is it like on par with Dracula Untold
because that movie makes me laugh?
It's been Ripped to Shreds, I know that much.
It's got like an extremely low rating.
The new Robin Hood, critics,
it is 17% on its metameter.
Oof.
And 50% of audiences liked it.
Oh, that's actually better than Last Jedi.
That's better than Last Jedi.
That's all scale, guys, remember that.
Yeah, we need to watch Dracula Untold together.
Oh, this is interesting.
We're gonna give like a list of things.
Ralph Breaks the Internet,
the audience score is 68% liked it.
Oh.
Yeah, I heard it wasn't very good.
It didn't seem very good.
I have no interest in watching it at all,
which is weird because I really liked the first one.
Yeah, I liked the first one.
I'd have to watch it again.
It's been a while.
But man, I've watched the ads for this new one
and I'm like, oh, no, no, I don't know.
It looks like an emoji movie.
Yeah, a little bit.
It's like, I saw that there was like a bunch
of like advertising frame and I was like,
okay, I'm not watching it then.
Wolf, I've missed you so much.
That's a very kind one.
Oh my God, look at this one.
I'm sorry you guys have to sit through watching
Peter Jesus.
Here's some pity, buddy.
Peter Jesus, he doesn't like Peter Jesus.
Okay, well, we can criticize him all we want.
Let's not call him a pedophile.
Yeah, of course not.
No, it's just a stash, right?
We're also not calling him Jesus.
Well, yes, that's true.
I'd suggest Dr. Wolf, but that's a brony YouTuber.
Oh yeah, Dr. Wolf wouldn't really work
because how would you even?
Plus, I don't think Wolf has a doctor.
Do you have a doctorate, Wolf?
You're a bachelor, aren't you?
Is it like, no.
No, he's not.
No, nothing.
Can I have like a doctorate in like Spyro knowledge?
Does that count?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's definitely a thing.
Are you up on the Spyro lore?
Oh, well, all the Spyro lore that matters anyway,
which is the first three games
and then nothing else matters.
Who, I love all the Spyro characters.
Who is the most fuckable?
Oh, well, clearly that would be Elora.
I have no idea who that is, but I agree.
That's the, she is a, she's a fawn.
Yes.
It's just like silence to appreciate.
Well, I mean, I could see that.
So we got the Wolf of Wall Street,
George Lincoln, Wolfwell,
Justin Yiff.
They're all came in super chasmoe.
Have you got a list going Wolf?
You've got to get all these up.
You're all inspirations to me.
It's my dream to be a guest on eFap.
Do I need to make a video calling you all racist
to be invited on?
I mean, we can't really like realistically
have some kind of system to get any randomers on completely
because it would be impossible to sort it out.
We've got a stacked up amount of guests to come on
that are actual like full on YouTubers who are busy as well.
Like it's confusing, but yeah, there's no,
even if they were a way to get anybody in chat
to guest on eFap, if we were to suggest it,
then we would be unable to do it from then on
because we'd have too many people trying to do it.
I don't know what an efficient way to do it would be
other than like creating a Patreon tier,
but I don't really want to do that.
How come all of the dragons besides Spyro are like daddies?
We don't need to talk about that one.
Why did it make them hot?
That's very relevant to what I was saying.
Look, it's Spyro just,
he hasn't hit that point of puberty yet
to become a daddy himself, so.
Is he going to turn into one of the other ones eventually?
I don't know because there's been like 11 Spyro games
and he doesn't age.
He's like Ash Ketchum.
Exactly, so either everything takes place
in the span of like a couple of weeks
or it's a very busy couple of weeks.
Well, you know.
I'm so close to the end, we're nearly there.
Glad you're doing better, Wolf.
Don't let online autism bring you down.
Same to More than Rags, of course, have a good stream.
So thumbs up right there, it's good stuff.
It's good to have friends
when it comes to annoying internet comments, to be honest.
Literally just sending the quote to somebody
and watching them laugh at how stupid it is
can make YouTubers feel better.
So if ever you become a YouTuber,
make sure you have friends, they're useful.
Just saying, you know, exploit them, right guys?
Winton them.
Exactly.
Great to see you doing a new stream,
but dang, I have to head to work.
I'll be sure to watch this when I get home tomorrow.
It will be on Moolah, it'll be right there waiting.
Wold, Wold Among the Right.
What's supposed to be Wolf Among the Right?
Wolf Among the Right.
Wolf Among the Right?
Wolf Among Just Right, hmm?
No, no.
What most aggravates you, waywardness or imbecility?
Imbecility.
Probably imbecility, yeah.
Yeah.
Wandering Wolf?
I think you saw that one.
Hello, Dr. Frankenstein, I found your missing creation.
Oh, poor, poor, poor Eric.
Don't worry, he's got a, he's got like a profile picture
we'll see in future.
I'm not sure why he did it for this, but hey.
Wolf Among the Reich.
What do you guys think of graphic novels?
I don't read too many of them, but I don't either.
Yeah, I was gonna say, I don't read them, but they're neat.
I'm fine with them though, I have in the past.
Yeah, I mean, I'm more like into just regular comics
and manga than graphic novels specifically, but.
I am.
I'm pretty indifferent to it.
I'm mostly a video game guy.
When's the eFap on Joseph Anderson happening?
I am not promising anything, we're just gonna say that.
Who knows when that might take place?
Yeah, it could happen next week,
could happen in a couple hours, do you know what I mean?
Could happen in 10 minutes.
It's gonna happen because we could take care of Eric Jackson.
Yeah.
And take him out to dinner, I mean,
we don't not take him out like violently, like Jesus, no.
Yeah, I mean, well, we will feed him before we beat him.
So help me fucking God, if he opens his trap
and he says, I'm vegetarian and I can't eat gluten,
then we're fucking, I'm not gonna eat meat.
How he doesn't eat, he eats some kind of meat.
That's true.
Thank you for recommending Ori, Wolf, I'm loving it.
That was from Glans ended.
So I have yet to see someone who I've recommended
that game to or otherwise bought it for,
come away disliking it.
I bought it, it's terrible, I hate it, worst game ever.
Yeah, I watched your recommendation video and I hate it.
Yeah, it was awful.
Well, can't be friends anymore, see you guys, bye.
Do an eFap on Jenny Nicholson's TLJ video,
we'll go back, we're probably gonna do a TLJ one soon
because we did that.
Jenny Nicholson is still a thing.
Oh yeah, her TLJ video is really bad too,
so it'll be interesting to cover it,
but yeah, people wanna see it cover that.
Well yeah, it's Jenny Nicholson,
I just didn't think that she was still around.
I liked her video on Suicide Squad,
I thought it was amusing.
Let's go ahead and, let's wrap up the super chance
and everything and get to it.
You say that when I've literally gotta read out one more.
Wolf of Redemption, that's it.
Let's banter, I think we've been bantering around a bit
much the last couple of episodes, we need to.
Are you kidding, we got through like half an hour
in the other one, at some point maybe, I don't remember.
This is Wolf's return, he gets to talk as much as he wants.
No, shut up, Wolf.
This is about Wolf.
This is true.
What is Wolf's diversity?
I think this is one of those titles
where you're like, what do you mean
what the fuck is force diversity?
You knob.
You knob.
Yeah, well, we'll break it there
because there's a couple more now,
but I'm just gonna, I'm gonna let him.
Now, before we play it, before we play it,
I just want to draw to everyone's attention
that my video on force diversity is 18 minutes long.
This guy's video in response to it is five minutes less.
How much of my video do you think
he's genuinely going to cover?
10 minutes, eight minutes.
Eight minutes, that's a.
I already know what I can't say.
Yeah.
I did too.
I thought you were like fishing for answers.
Oh.
Seven minutes.
We'll let the chat, let the chat figure it out.
Oh God, so much more.
We'll get a few guesses from chat, yeah.
Yeah, someone's already like guessed it accurately, so.
None of it, all of it, five seconds, two minutes, 69 minutes.
I'm not sure how that would work.
Yeah, it's a, well, I mean, maybe if he watches
my whole video like four or five times, he slowed it down.
You're talking too fast.
Couldn't understand your blades.
Go on, Wolf, put him right under the misery.
What was the actual count?
It's like between a minute and a half and two minutes.
Don't know if he's going to spend enough.
And here's the best part.
The bulk of it that he shows is the beginning section
where I hadn't made my argument yet
and I was giving a disclaimer.
Amazing.
Exactly, yeah.
So we're gonna.
Is everyone ready?
Absolutely.
I am ready.
Forced diversity is a term I've been hearing a lot.
I'm not quite sure what it means,
but this video seems like it'll teach me what's what.
So just off the bat, forced diversity,
what do you guys think it means
if you've never heard of it before?
It's really kind of, how do I?
It's like self-evident, it's in the words.
It kind of is, that's the point I was about to say.
It's sort of self-evident, it should be at least.
It is when you force diversity.
I'll just give you a scenario.
Hey, I need a plumber and some fat guy's like,
I can do the plumbing.
Then you go, no, I need a woman.
You're like, why?
You're just like, cause it's, I always get a male plumber.
I want a female plumber for once.
And he's just like, here we go.
Okay, and then the plumbing company is like,
we're gonna have to fire you
because we need to make room for female plumbers.
Also, weird shit.
And it's just like, what the fuck is?
Or, and inversely, it would be hiring someone who's black
and not hiring someone who's white,
even though the white guy is more qualified for it.
And this goes to anything.
So like it could be gender, race,
political or religious beliefs.
Like the idea that if you're having a discussion
on a topic, you need to have everyone
from every possible differentiation of human being
in order to have a balanced discussion.
And the insanity is it's like, doesn't it matter more so
how good their critical thinking is
or what they can bring to the table
as opposed to what color their skin is
or what sexuality they are?
And then you get-
It's forced diversity is essentially
the opposite of meritocracy.
Yeah, and it's happening in the BBC a lot, right?
There's like actual requirements
that they have X amount of different diversities
on staff of different companies.
Yes, we're hiring for a position,
but don't apply if you are white.
And of course, this goes into a lot of arguments.
There's a lot of people who would argue
that it's important to give people of those races,
of those differences, a person to look up to in that job
to make them think it's possible for them or whatever.
Which-
I mean, we can look at another example.
We can look at The Witcher recently, the show, The Witcher.
I know they changed it kind of technically,
but initially they were going to cast a white role
as literally anything other than white.
Like they listed it as,
we're looking for someone that's not white.
Only fan backlash changed that, but still,
they made other white characters black and Indian.
Yeah, it's like we're redoing Buffy, but she's black.
They like announced that as if it's just like,
what, what, why, what?
Just do a different character.
And that's obviously the response to a lot of this.
And then Wolf has made a video highlighting
what issues can arise from forced diversity, which is,
I, again, considering how self-evident the word is,
you'd think you'd be able to come up with them
on your own even, but apparently Eric has no idea
what it even means.
So that's where we're starting, apparently.
Before we're done, I'd like to know exactly
what forced diversity is.
But what I'd really like to know is what makes it different
from regular diversity.
So forced one isn't-
It's very simple.
Diversity that occurs organically is fine.
When you're trying forced diversity.
For example, Hill House.
And you'll never have complete diversity, by the way.
You'll never have every type of human in a project.
That's just not gonna happen unless you fucking
have a camera on earth.
Like you have a room with five characters.
Do you think you're gonna have every human
of every kind in that room?
Yeah, like my favorite movie is only Asians.
Which would be non-diverse, wouldn't it?
Which is not diverse, but it takes place in Asia, so.
And then if they were to remake that film,
and for some reason, the government,
or whatever position they make the films in,
were told you have to have at least one black person,
one white person, one, but it was just everywhere.
And that could damage the film,
considering that had nothing to do with their intentions.
Absolutely, especially because it's a historical film.
But yeah, so the difference is you just make it
because that's how it was made,
versus someone has a quota for you.
Especially non-self-imposed ones.
But I suppose you could self-impose it,
if you're just like, I'm gonna make a story,
but it has to have this, this, this, this.
And if that's your focus, versus whatever else.
Let's see.
Well, that was a nothing video,
but it was pretty illuminating as well.
So let's analyze it.
In today's political climate,
people on both sides of the spectrum
like to play word games, particularly with phrases
that you should or should not support.
And if you do or do not support them,
then it automatically puts you under some derogatory label
because, hey, who fucking cares about nuance, right?
The video starts with a very long and laborious.
Yeah, I like this guy, he's all right.
Yeah, I like that guy better.
He seems like a better YouTuber.
He's right, though.
He moves as well.
This Eric Piston seems to be a Boy Scout.
He's correct.
He's using a picture of a much more handsome young man.
It's a explanation as to how the disorder.
Yeah, let's go back a bit, though.
It's about nuance, right?
The video starts with a very long and laborious explanation
as to how the dishonored wolf
is actually a nuanced little centrist boy.
I'm not centrist.
I never said I'm a centrist in my entire life.
I don't know what the boy comment is about either.
I guess he just wants to condescend you as much as he can.
Boys.
Listen, Eric, with your facial hair,
don't call people boys.
But I'm just gonna be honest with you, man.
I know you're very proud of it
and you wanna be a man one day,
but until that time comes, man,
just keep yourself clean shaven.
Yeah, the idea here is that he's like,
Wolf is saying that he does not
specifically follow a blah, blah, blah.
Therefore, he's centrist.
It's like Wolf never actually said that,
nor did what he said specifically represent that.
It's just a weird takeaway.
But we know why,
because it's gonna lead into his gotcha at the end,
if you remember, Wolf.
Oh, yes.
It's almost like the way that he says it, too,
is like centrism is a bad thing.
We talk about how you run a narrative in videos.
This would have been something
he may have put in in a redraft.
He wants to sprinkle here in a bit
and a little bit later on that Wolf is a centrist,
even though Wolf never claims that,
and then he's going to prove him wrong by the end.
That Wolf is actually not a racist, a centrist.
No, he definitely thinks I'm a racist.
No, he-
Wait, Wolf isn't actually a racist?
Oh, no, he is, definitely.
Oh, okay, okay, good, good, good.
He likes wolves.
He hates humans.
He has a problem with, I guess, a species.
Or likes good, too, likes bad.
Yeah, canine supremacy,
but you canis lupus familiaris rags,
you aren't allowed.
I'm homo sapien, is that all right?
We don't want any of those fearless domesticus rags here.
What is skull on wheels in Latin?
Skull on wheels?
Skulliest non wheeliest.
Wheeliest scalaris?
Wheeliest scalaris.
Fine, don't know why you need to dedicate so much time
to convince people that you're definitely not right-winged.
Oh, what?
It's so interesting because of the fact
that at the end of this video,
he confirms that you are right-wing.
I have never in my life identified as being right-wing.
But just keep it by, though,
he's criticizing you for trying to tell people
at the beginning that that's your position,
and then later on says that you are,
despite all of this effort to tell him you're not.
It's just like, well then, Eric.
I do want to go a little further
because it shows a little bit more into my video
that he just blatantly ignores,
but it will show, I will have a bit more to add to it
because he does think.
I'm the furthest right of the three of us,
and I'm not even right-wing.
Yeah. Yeah, who cares?
If you just say everyone's right-winged
that disagrees with you then.
If you aren't a social justice warrior, you're far right.
There's literally nothing in between.
Don't know why you need to dedicate so much time
to convince people that you're definitely not right-wing,
but go off, I guess.
Eventually, we get to the right-wing.
So when I say I'm totally right-wing.
Sorry, just to clarify, it is okay to be right-wing, too.
You're not a demon.
It's okay to be right-wing.
It's okay to be left-wing.
Yeah, the real thing is that he's obviously
making an assumption that I'm right-wing,
and that assumption is based off of views that I have
that he's the kind of person
that thinks that right-wingers are racists or Nazis
or fascists, even though I'm not any of those things.
Well, all left-wingers are communists.
Yeah, it's the implication he puts behind the whole,
he's a right-winger.
It's people that you're definitely not right-wing,
but go off, I guess.
Eventually, we get to the point.
So when I say I'm totally against the concept
of forced diversity, I want to make it crystal f-
Also, he's balanced this tismy.
His video, I've got the audio right for,
but whenever he plays Wolf's, it like is blasting
my speakers for the people watching,
so I have to keep f-ing changing it.
Thanks, Eric, you bastard.
The point.
So when I say I'm totally against the concept
of forced diversity, I want to make it crystal f-ing clear
that the mere idea of diversity is not what I would deem
to be negative in any discernible way.
I know this has taken entirely too much time to say,
but believe me, I know that if I'm not as clear as possible,
people will lose their minds over this shit.
The difference between diversity and forced diversity
is that one is natural and the other is artificial.
The act of forcing diversity in one form or another
directly leads to an objective drop in quality.
There is not one single form of entertainment
that forces diversity on the one being entertained
that is actually good.
Let me explain.
Pause it real quick.
Yeah, let me get back to that, sorry.
Yeah.
There we go.
Skip three minutes of waffly bullshit.
That would have been useful to discuss.
Anyone curious what's in those three minutes?
Probably the fucking explanation of what he just said.
Yeah, and he's not gonna show much more
than what he's already shown,
and that was a disclaimer to say some very important things.
First off, before I get into it,
I was showing, it's not like anything to do
with the contents of this video
or any of the stuff that happened earlier this year,
but it's a fun fact to note that
the mod I was playing, Halo SPV3,
the guy who made that mod is the one
who got me banned from Twitter,
which I think is just a funny little tidbit
to think about.
I was having fun on his mods, and then he ruined it.
The modder banned me, so.
I'll make sure to avoid it, not recommended, people.
Exactly, don't.
So anyway, the whole point of that explanation,
I mean, he cuts out the vast majority
of the points I made in there,
particularly the things about diversity
that I'm perfectly fine with,
because they would completely defeat his argument.
I'm very particular with the kind of language I use.
Sometimes I don't always convey my points
in the way that I want to, obviously,
but I try my best to be very specific
with the words that I say
so that people don't misconstrue my meaning.
And so the thing he cuts out of,
or one of the things he cuts out
is me explaining that I think that the people
that are doing the whole forced diversity thing
are on the very far left.
And I even point out there are problems
with the very far right.
I outright say, or I don't say specifically,
but I do insinuate like, yeah, I am a left-winger,
or at least I lean more to the left than to the right.
But that's a little bit too much nuance
for his video to actually put up.
But he's going under the idea
that I'm racist or sexist,
or that because I'm a right-winger,
I can't have an objective opinion
on forced diversity or diversity as a whole.
And he's just going to continue to go
with his false narrative that he's completely made up.
I mean, he's been understanding.
Yeah, he literally is just gay Quentin.
Gay Quentin, sorry.
Gay Quentin.
Diversity on the one being entertained
that is actually good.
Let me explain.
The problem is the forced part of it.
I am completely fine with any kind of character,
be they female, black, gay, crippled, whatever,
so long as they're a natural part of the character
and isn't some focal point for the story.
For example, Ripley from the Alien franchise
is fucking awesome.
By far and away, my favorite female character ever.
The fact that she's female is never brought to the forefront
and no one ever makes it a point that because of that,
she's better than any other character.
The difference between a character like Ripley
and a character like Rey is that one is a naturally
implemented character and the other is not.
So we're already hitting a couple of roadblocks.
Now, I love-
So this shot right here that shows these two cards,
one of Rey, one of Ripley.
Notice how he's not going to play most of this segment.
He's going to play like a few seconds of it,
but he's not going to pay any attention
to most of the arguments I make.
This is the problem with this video
is that he only plays like a couple minutes worth
of my video.
It's an 18 minute video when he completely takes most
of my points completely out of context
or otherwise just doesn't even provide context at all.
It doesn't show most of my video
and bases his argument off of something.
That's just not even there.
And just to clarify for viewers,
how would you discern the difference between Ripley
and Rey in terms of force diversity?
One has the force.
I mean, my take would be that Ripley was a character
and she's played by a female actress, obviously,
and then there's- With talent.
There are elements to her that you could definitely,
there are choices she makes and actions she takes
that could be informed by her being female rather than male,
just like how that would be the same
for a lot of the Marines.
You could probably argue there's certain things they do
that you could be like, it's because they're the man's man,
you know, stuff like that.
But ultimately the important parts of her character
have nothing to do with her agenda.
They're all very much about what she has experienced,
who she is, you know, all the stuff
that everybody can relate to
because it doesn't require that you have particular genitals
while Rey doesn't have anything in terms of character.
And we know that one of their goals when hiring
for The Force Awakens was that they just,
I mean, JJ's dream was having it
so that it was all Asian cast,
but obviously you couldn't have that
because reasons, I don't fucking have no idea
how casting works.
And obviously when he said that, it could have been a joke.
I'm not saying that's definitive,
but they were definitely concerned
with getting away from the whole straight white bail cast.
I can't have that anymore,
even though it's fucking aliens all over the place
in Star Wars.
So you have Rey is a female protagonist,
and then you have Finn is a black protagonist.
And you have Poe, is Poe Hispanic?
I mean, Oscar Isaac.
He's something like that.
I think I heard where he's from.
I just can't quite remember anymore.
Either way, it's a very diverse cast.
And do you know what it also is?
Like it's completely lacking consistency
or development for their characters.
And it looks like they were focusing on that element
because that was their goal
rather than focusing on characters first.
And I imagine that's what Wolf was going for.
That's my take.
It's very, if you wanna sum it up,
Ripley, a woman is what she is.
It's not who she is.
She isn't defined by the fact that she is a woman
unlike Rey who's defined by virtually nothing.
She's got nothing else.
What else is there?
And it sucks because I think the, however,
I mean, I hate to do this, but offense to Daisy Ridley,
but like so many people pick up on her acting ability.
Like that's not something I'm just inventing.
A lot of people find it very difficult to watch her
because she has the same delivery
for a lot of things she says.
I'm not saying she can't act whatsoever.
I'm not gonna go to that extreme.
But was she chosen because she's female
or was she chosen, you know?
We'll never know that definitively,
but the goal when they were making the film
was to have a diverse cast.
And since that wasn't gonna happen naturally,
quote unquote, from just casting based on ability,
they had to make sure the quotas were there.
They're like, this character has to be female.
And it's not necessary.
Do you think they really hired her
because of her immense acting talent?
I mean, maybe if she was directed by somebody
who could force her to get some amazing performances
and keep telling her to keep a damn mouth shut.
You can get directors who are that aggressive.
Maybe she could do amazing performances.
Maybe if someone glued her lips shut.
You know, kept her from having her mouth open
98% of the movie.
Yeah, and by the way, just because why not?
Eric, you're welcome to come on eFap
and talk about the subject, though.
I have no expectations.
He's not going to.
He's not going to.
He would ever wanna speak to us.
Do you think that somebody who hides their likes
and dislikes is going to engage in a live discussion
with people who disagree with him?
Because like, yeah, we're going to get...
I get the impression that we're going to be deplorable
from his perspective.
It seems so.
Unfortunately.
It was deplorables.
Someone just said, what about eFap not being political?
We did go over this in, I think it was eFap like,
I wanna say 12, could have been earlier than that.
Yeah, you know, it's hard not to be political
for this particular video
because it's based on a political stance.
Yeah, me, Wolf and Rags definitely have politics.
And when you're off the cuff discussing random things,
politics will come up.
eFap is not going to be strictly non-political.
I don't generally like talking about politics.
I mean, the three of us,
we've only talked about politics amongst ourselves once.
Maybe.
Ever.
And the thing is,
it's not like we're talking about candidates or policies,
you know?
We're talking pretty much about...
I mean, forced diversity is something
that people on the left hate
and it's something that people on the right hate.
It's like really the only people who...
I mean, that's a social justice thing is forced diversity.
I mean, that's why Sargon hates it.
That's why Paul Joseph Watson hates it.
That's why I hate it.
That's why Mahler and Wolf hate it.
That's why Tim Poole hates it.
I mean, it's something that...
I mean, if I was right in a story
and then someone told me
I have to change my protagonist to female
just because whatever, just be like, excuse me.
And you just said that's still political.
I just said,
Efap is not not political.
That's not something any three of us will ever claim.
We're definitely gonna drift into politics
every once in a while.
A setting policy.
Because if you set the policy of your project
or your company must have a diverse set of people in it,
that is obviously setting a policy.
And I disagree with it.
That is my politics.
Yeah.
And ultimately we're very concerned
with the quality of art that's made.
We're concerned with the quality of films
and movies and shows and games.
And this is a aspect of politics
and source diversity,
stuff that impacts that.
And someone just said,
never become jail apocalypse.
You are not going to catch us
telling you to vote a certain way.
Yes.
I'm not gonna tell you that you're a bad person
and you're responsible for all these terrible,
horrible things.
And that you're an immoral person
and that you should leave
and that you're nothing but dollar signs to us
and we're glad you're gone
if you disagree with us.
Yeah.
And as Jaspo just pointed out,
he called Wolf a little centrist boy.
How do we not,
like what he wants to do,
just ignore,
be like,
well, if he talks about politics,
we can't address it.
Well, the thing is that like I said,
he constantly tries to go out of his way
to say that I'm on the right wing.
And there's an implication to that
that he puts in there
because, you know,
typically who cares what side you're on.
If we're talking about something like a movie
or a video game
or many other things
that Eric conveniently doesn't put in his video.
The problem is that
he wouldn't try to paint me as a right winger
if he didn't have
an insidious implication behind that.
So.
Yeah.
At the end,
he does make a very strong implication.
I will be voting for Hillary Clinton.
I didn't even watch a Casey Neistat video before that,
but I saw, I was like,
what are you doing?
I was like,
he got reamed from that pretty hard too.
People were not happy.
I was surprised to see a still up here.
He's left it up.
And a lot of the comments are like,
this is aged horribly.
It's like,
yeah,
just a little bit.
Yeah.
I can't watch Casey Neistat
because his eyes bother me.
That's why.
No, yeah.
He's got an interesting,
I don't know,
composition.
He's gonna remain as not insulty as possible,
but it's,
it's interesting.
So I'll say,
but anyway,
carry on Mr. Eric.
And the other is not.
So we're already hitting a couple of roadblocks.
Now I love alien,
but do you think it's any coincidence
that Mr. Wolf's first example of a positive.
That's from aliens.
It doesn't matter.
I mean,
I'm okay with that.
What I would say though,
is I prefer Ripley and aliens to alien
in terms of character growth.
But it's okay.
Just example of a positive use of diversity in fiction
is a character that was written as gender neutral
and made female at the casting stage.
I don't think that's a problem.
Yeah.
I mean,
what's the issue with that?
And first off,
I wasn't aware of,
I just liked her as a character.
Yeah.
Second,
I don't see what the problem is.
He's saying like,
isn't it a coincidence that she used to have no gender
before finalizing a character?
And I just sit there being like,
she had a daughter in aliens
and they made that a part of the story
and it wasn't forced.
Like point being,
her being having female elements
is not something Wolf has a problem with.
Just saying she started out
without the intention of being female.
It's like,
who cares?
It's like she was a character before a gender.
Yeah, that's what I'm getting.
It's like,
that's almost a good thing in a way,
unless it's really important to the character.
Say, for example,
you have a protagonist with a mother and father,
you have to cast them
to match the fact of being mothers.
You know what I mean?
Like then you're a little bit more trapped.
You can't describe fictional characters
to modern gender binaries.
It's strange that he thinks
that's just something to highlight,
but I can't remember if he actually
makes a point on that or not.
Yeah, but to dial it back,
the fact that he mentioned alien
instead of aliens,
despite me showing a picture of it,
I don't think that really matters in the grand scheme.
I think it matters more that he just completely
takes me out of context
and doesn't play a vast majority of the way I do.
He's doing way more stuff than just that.
Alien, but do you think it's any-
Get to see women and aliens.
Coincidence that Mr. Wolf's first example
of a positive use of diversity in fiction
is a character that was written as gender neutral
and made female at the cast of-
Wouldn't you like gender neutrality
given that you're a he, they?
I mean, I just don't-
What's his problem exactly?
Why is that-
Yeah, I don't understand what his issue is.
Yeah, I mean, I'm sorry to make us pause the video again,
but it just like occurred to me,
like, what does it matter?
She's still a good character.
Diversity in fiction, say. She's also a woman.
Character that was written as gender neutral
and made female at the casting stage.
I wonder.
He's also comparing her to Rey from Star Wars,
so let's see what he has to say about that.
Where Ripley was codependent on her friends,
Rey is so independent that she lacks any ability
to come off as halfway likable.
Her natural skill with the Force,
despite having no training,
her ability to beat a Sith apprentice
trained by Luke Skywalker
and even beat Luke himself in combat,
her ability to get a triple kill
with a single shot from the Millennium Falcon gun,
despite never using it before,
becoming a better shot than a stormtrooper
who had trained for years within seconds,
discovering Force powers she never knew existed,
flying a ship she's never flown before,
fixing problems on such ships.
It's just funny,
because it's like, how the hell did that stormtrooper
lose that?
He had a rifle, she had a pistol.
Pistols are insanely hard to shoot.
Like, people don't understand,
a lot of people don't understand.
Pistols are hard as hell to shoot at things.
I love this while the shot where he's,
she like realizes he's dead.
He's just, I kind of want to go back,
but fuck it, I'll leave it now.
He's just like staring off into the distance.
He's like, and then she goes shoot.
It's like, what the fuck was he doing?
Like, he's supposed to be looking around for it.
He's just like, hmm, this tree looks interesting.
It's like, what good is this armor?
I like the color of that moss.
I mean, yeah, it's always good to check out the moss.
New existed, flying a ship she's never flown before,
fixing problems on said ship she's never flown before,
which honestly isn't even an actual fix.
She just broke it.
Everything in general can be explained away
because she's a woman.
That, and because she's a gigantic Mary Sue.
I'm going to level with you here,
Power Strikes Back like three years ago,
and I thought they were boring.
I'm saying this because it doesn't really matter.
Oh, all right.
By the way, Eric Taksin thinks The Last Jedi
is the best of the Star Wars films, including the OT,
and that the Empire Strikes Back is worse
than The Last Jedi and Revenge of the Sith.
Jesus Christ.
He's got a very odd choice of favorites, but.
Yeah, it wasn't his first three.
It went The Last Jedi, Revenge of the Sith,
then Return of the Jedi.
Then A New Hope, then Empire.
And I'm not saying, because this just seems to happen.
Whenever we have people responding to us,
we're always curious, like, did they love The Last Jedi?
And it's like, yes.
Okay.
Again, sins didn't.
There are people who don't.
It's just interesting.
It's like, does this have something to do with the fact
that we didn't like The Last Jedi?
But he said he didn't even care about Star Wars,
to be honest.
You would have to not care about Star Wars
to think The Last Jedi is anything other than crap.
How dare you rags, you sub-thiggist.
The Empire Strikes Back, like, three years ago,
and I thought they were more of this.
I'm saying this because it doesn't really matter.
For the sake of argument, I'm just going to assume
that The Force Awakens is the worst movie ever made
and Rey is an underdeveloped blank slate,
just as Wolf Daddy said she is.
So I have a question, and it's important to pose
this question to you specifically, Musky Husky.
Flex your creative muscles.
How would you fix this?
How do you take Rey and make her more like Ripley?
How does one enforce the cyber?
Are you fucking insane?
Hold on, keep playing,
because I think this is the part where...
Keep the answer in your brain pockets for now.
I'll ask again later.
Yeah, we'll answer that.
Okay, so it comes up later, right?
We'll answer it later.
Does he actually think that it would be difficult
to write any sort of character into her?
He's gonna be making...
He's gonna be making a point about...
It's not just how do you fix her, it's...
I feel like it's a spoiler for this video,
but he's gonna be arguing.
Whatever fix you apply to her does not change the fact
that she is forced in as diversity or not.
Disney confirmed that they hired people for diversity.
Well, like I said, we'll get to it once he says it,
but for now he just...
All he wants us to do, chat, and us,
is to just think of a few ideas
of why you could fix Rey.
Keep those ideas budding,
because he was gonna ask us...
Yeah.
And this is where we can stop responding to him
point by point, because he's done making a new point.
Okay, pause it again.
So three minutes and 43 seconds have gone by.
How much of that was my video?
Like a minute, maybe? 30 seconds.
Yeah, how long is my video?
18 minutes, yeah.
And that's it.
What does that tell you about how honest he's been?
Not to mention... That's kinda weird.
Yeah, people just commented.
You can hear crickets and you can hear loud static.
Yeah, that's what I was saying.
I was like, is that coming from his video?
It is.
That's the last...
Jungle noise?
It records in a jungle.
That's not even the worst part.
Just wait until we start getting into the video.
Oh God, yeah.
Keep an eye on the video editing, folks.
You'll start to see some strange...
Yeah, if you're an aspiring YouTuber,
what he does on the screen, don't do it.
And this is where we can stop responding to him
point by point, because he's done making new points.
He's already painted himself into a corner.
Painted yourself into a corner, you're fucked, Wolf.
In his 18 minutes, he doesn't make any new point
at any point, except within that,
the 45 seconds or so that you played.
He doesn't expand on anything.
All for examples.
He didn't even play my whole disclaimer.
Like folks, don't do it like this.
It's really disingenuous.
Man, that's fucked up.
It's the Quinton method.
And before anyone says it,
because I don't want to construe here,
when I say play the full disclaimer,
I don't mean play the full unadulterated thing
so that people would say, you know,
you're a hypocrite, you pause videos all the time.
He can do that.
It's just, he didn't do that.
He played like a small snippet of my disclaimer
and made an assertion based on something
that's just incorrect.
Let's be fair here, like...
You have to play the relevant parts.
Pausing through sections and rewinding
to listen to them fully is way better
than I'll only play, what,
less than half a percent of your video?
Half a 10%, sorry.
So less than 5%.
Yeah, those are totally different things.
See, that overlong intro where he goes through
in laborious detail why he's actually
a nuanced little centrist puppy,
wasn't just a...
I never said I'm a centrist.
He changed it up.
You're a nuanced little boy before
and now you're a nuanced little puppy.
No.
Do you feel condescended yet, Wolf?
Not at all, man.
Well, it's awkward coming from him,
that's all I'll say.
Yep.
Especially with the fucking Boy Scout avatar.
And Shuon Head liked this video?
Yeah, I was gonna get to that at the end.
I mean, it doesn't really matter when we talk about it.
It's very clear that she did not watch my video, so.
Shuon Head thought this was a good take.
You can find a comment on his video
and then she says, do you mind taking a look at mine?
Because she was obviously like,
clearly I said something.
This is Wolf's video that he checked it out.
Apparently he said yours doesn't say anything either.
It's just like, oh.
Well, if all he takes from an 18 minute video
is like 45 seconds,
then hers had better be pretty damn long
if he's gonna get anything.
He's like, oh, it's probably nothing useful in here.
And then, you know, it's a shame
because like a lot of people will watch Eric Taxman's take
and be like, fucking hell, Wolf.
This right Nazi idiot hates women potentially,
depending on all the different messages here.
It's like he made a fucking faulty ass video
with this bull's divis to think.
There is a guy in the chat
who seems to be a very big Eric fan, actually.
Oh yeah?
Yeah, he, why?
I, well, that's a good question.
He said, everyone except you guys
and your fanboys liked my video.
Wait.
I didn't know I had like somewhere around 400,000 fanboys.
That's pretty cool.
Me?
But, wait, wait, he's saying the only people
who liked your original video are people who are biased.
Yeah.
That's fair.
Okay.
Just pay attention.
That sounds reasonable.
And if you disabled the ratings,
he wouldn't be able to make that statement, Wolf.
So get fucked, Eric.
Absolutely.
Yeah, you should have just disabled the ratings, dude.
Just like my biggest fan, Eric Taxman.
Oh, it's part of his deflection.
If you haven't noticed,
that defensive screed never really ended.
He's dressed up his argument
into such a delicate little package of rationality
that it can't really be disagreed with,
but this is at a cost.
Mr. Wolf, this isn't about diversity anymore.
Yeah, it is.
Okay, exactly what the whole video's about.
The claim there was that you're trying to hide
like the truth behind something, right?
Was that what I was getting there?
Like your centrism, I think he's implying
you're hiding behind centrism.
He wasn't just there to kick everything off.
It's part of his deflection.
If you haven't noticed,
that defensive screed never really ended.
He's dressed up his argument into such a-
Defensive deflection dressed up.
He's saying-
Or he's explaining what his point is accurately.
Is Eric trying to say that you said over and over again
that you're not a centrist, which-
Oh, no, that you are a centrist,
which isn't something you've said,
because you actually-
You're really right-wing?
Yeah, like, and that's it.
Is he trying to say that your goal here
was to just present a right-wing idea
hidden under a centrist idea?
Well, yeah, that's the implication
he makes of the whole video,
is that I'm pretending to be a centrist
to hide behind, to hide the fact that I'm right-wing,
which both statements are completely incorrect.
If he had actually shown, you know,
the whole disclaimer I made at the beginning of the video,
I give examples of, you know,
far left-wingers doing stupid shit,
but then I also give examples
of far right-wingers doing stupid shit.
It's funny to me because it's like,
it has to be nefarious, doesn't it?
It can't be that you just fucking had some points
to make about writing irrespective of politics.
The whole point of me making that disclaimer
was to prove that I'm not coming at it
from some overly biased far right or far left point of view.
It's to show that I am self-aware
that there are problems with both sides
because I mean, I can't even express
how many comments I've seen in the past
and how many I'll definitely see in the future
people saying, oh, you know, liberals are a disease.
It's like, I'm liberal.
So that's the point of my disclaimer
that you completely missed.
Well, not just missed,
you completely didn't address it in your video, so.
Is this like when Contra Point said,
I'm not a Nazi is what a Nazi would say?
Pretty much.
Oh, that's, yeah, that's parroted by a lot of people.
And it's not necessarily untrue,
but it's also what a non-Nazi would say, by the way.
Yeah. Do you know what I mean?
Like, if you go, hey, Mueller, you're a Nazi?
It's a statement that doesn't get you
any closer to the truth.
It's a worthless statement.
Yeah, to be fair, to be fair,
he doesn't like strictly call me a Nazi in this video,
but there is, there is a derogatory implication
that he puts your-
Well, he practically accused you of trying to trick people
into what your politics actually are.
Yeah, and obviously since he paints that
in such a negative light, there is, you know,
given the stigma against right wingers
that we've seen echoed throughout the left,
there is a reason why he makes this implication
throughout the video.
Yeah, why doesn't he just talk about the diversity stuff
instead of bringing your politics into it?
Like, why do you-
Because he doesn't have an argument at all.
He's gonna, he's gonna be trying to blame,
like, he's trying to say that Wolf has a different problem
and Wolf sees it as a specific problem
because of his politics.
I'm pretty sure that's the goal anyway.
And, well, yeah, we'll just let him go through it.
That defensive screed never really ended.
He's dressed up his argument
into such a delicate little package of rationality
that it can't really be disagreed with,
but this is at a cost.
Mr. Wolf, this isn't about diversity anymore.
It literally is.
You just didn't like a movie.
You didn't like a movie.
Well, first off-
That was the intro, I guess.
I didn't just dislike a movie.
I didn't even just use movies as an example.
I used books, I used TV shows, I used comics,
and I used video games.
He's ticking this all up to you
not liking The Last Jedi.
Well, Force Awakens was the example, I suppose.
Is there a question that's fucking stupid?
Yeah, I mean, he did use The Last Jedi
throughout the video, but like I said,
he has to ignore the vast majority of my points
to make his.
Well, Mr. Wolf, what is force diversity?
I guess we're gonna find out.
What's this noise?
Jesus Christ, if it could just end, I could turn it-
If you make videos, don't do this.
So was the static of the crickets deliberate?
Because you would've just cut it out here, wouldn't you?
Well, maybe he made his video outside at night.
He's just like on his computer in the fucking middle
of a forest.
Well, this is how I do.
Commute with nature.
That looks fine-wise.
The quote usually goes,
oh, I'm a supporter of diversity
as long as it isn't forced.
Exactly.
Yep, that's good.
Moving on.
Yeah, I agree with that.
I have no problem with diversity.
You're gonna refuse that, Eric?
What Prince Fuzzybutt over here is saying.
Fuzzybutt, oh, I'm a prince though.
Fuzzybutt.
Prince Fuzzybutt.
I'll say, I got like royalty on, I guess.
Yeah, it's true, it's not good.
As long as it isn't forced.
That's what Prince Fuzzybutt over here is saying.
Diversity is a positive thing,
but things get dicey when the diversity is-
No, diversity is not always-
It's a neutral thing.
No, diversity, yeah.
Diversity isn't positive or negative.
It can be positive.
Your content doesn't automatically improve
by having a race in there that wasn't in there previously.
That's just contextual as fuck.
There's a lot of things that can screw up,
especially historical accuracy.
That would be one of the biggest ones.
Someone said I should name my channel Prince Fuzzybutt.
No.
It's human.
I have a couple questions.
Part one, what the fuck do you mean?
It's really simple, you don't need to yell,
it's really simple.
I explained it in the first three minutes
that you cut out a-
That wasn't important.
When you take out the argument,
the argument doesn't make sense,
and so he's nailed it.
What is the difference between forced diversity
and non-forced diversity?
We've already been over that, and we'll-
My whole video covered it,
if you actually watched it, you know.
I was gonna say we could explain it again,
but we've done it in this podcast already, so moving on.
Well, as it turns out, just like with all art,
everyone has their own opinion.
Some people, like Name Drop, Revenge of the Dreamer,
speak exclusively of diversity
that goes against historical record.
You see, the writer says that there's no lead actors
of color, even though that would be historically inaccurate,
as this piece is a historical retelling
of a World War II battle.
I don't know anything we're always talking about.
Yeah, I don't even know what the subject is, but-
Well, in fairness, he uses a couple examples.
This is the weaker of the two,
but he does get to a point, eventually.
Well, I mean, he's not wrong.
The concept of putting diversity into something
can be a negative outcome
when you're trying to depict reality.
Absolutely.
Yeah, but if you're-
Well, no, because not-
Well, and it depends on how you wanna frame it,
because if you're trying to apply to history,
then it's, I mean, then you've set a goal,
and the goal is to recreate something.
So it's kind of, it's a little different in that aspect,
instead of saying our goal is diversity,
versus our goal is recreating historical actors.
You remember people are upset at Dunkirk
for not having women in it enough, right?
Yeah.
Which is just like, but that was the case.
And so we can discern that diversity was not forced in,
while if the film had 50-50 men, women,
people would be like, what the hell?
That's not how it went down.
It's like, ah, it's fine.
Yes, if you have diversity as an aspect
of obtaining historical accuracy,
that is different than having your primary goal
as we need to be diverse.
Also, let's make a historical movie.
By the way, having-
Those are completely different things.
Having women in Dunkirk
wouldn't necessarily have ruined the film,
but it would have, like I'm not saying it's possible,
but it would still be forced diversity
because it was not natural.
That's not how it would have happened
had the goal been in a historical accurate film,
which is clearly what Dunkirk was going for.
So that, you know, he's already asked about
what's the difference between forced and non-forced.
Like, does that work as an explanation, Eric?
Or no?
I don't know.
Well, look, why would we have a problem
with women in Dunkirk?
You can look at them.
Yeah, you get to look at women.
I wish Lee would come on this podcast.
It'd be so embarrassing for him.
It's like people who,
when Call of Duty World War II came out,
there were articles talking about
how come there's no queer people
and transgender soldiers and stuff like that?
Like, unironically, wondering where are all the trans soldiers
and things like that.
And I'm like, you fucker, you'd be forcing diversity.
Yeah, it's almost like, I don't know.
It's not hard to follow to me.
It's so simple.
They don't care about historical accuracy.
They care more about cultural relevancy.
Cultural relevancy.
Which is not very persuasive
because historical fiction is only one genre.
And that's where he fucked it up.
Historical fiction is not historical depiction.
Like, it's, you know, the historical fiction
is more what I would call stuff like Inglourious Basterds.
Yes, sir.
We've got a film.
Wolfenstein, I think that, yeah, Overload.
Media that is designed to take the ideas
of a thing that did happen,
but then fuck with it and do whatever they want.
Yeah, I mean, look, I like historical fiction
from time to time.
It depends on which one it is, obviously.
All the time, no one really cares about that.
If someone does like, you know, a black World War II,
but they're like, this is historical fiction.
It's like, okay, whatever.
As long as it's good, I'm fine with it.
The problem that we have, like in the case of Battlefield 5,
putting like cyborg women on the front lines, yeah.
It's just spitting in the face of history.
And that's the issue we have with it.
And those projects are not the same
as something like Dunkirk.
Someone pointed out.
The article about trans soldiers in Call of Duty,
would you like to link that?
It's a polygon article that I covered.
If you Google or YouTube my name
and like Call of Duty World War II, it should pop up.
You can find it yourself, you're a big boy.
I made a video about it.
You can do it.
Yeah, it's weird that he, like,
I don't think that's what this guy was talking about,
assuming that was.
This is the problem.
I don't know what his subject is.
If his subject was in glorious bastards,
then I'd be like, yeah, that's weird
that you'd say that, considering there's a lot of stuff
that happens in that film.
It's completely at odds with history, but I don't know.
I think Hitler's in that pretty well-received.
Oh yeah, definitely.
Yeah, I love him, the glorious bastards, yeah.
They kill Hitler in a movie theater.
I mean, it's just like, it's obviously not, I mean, come on.
People aren't like a new thing.
But more importantly, it's a different distinction
than the one from our Red Rocketeer who goes.
But that's fine.
Do you want to rewind that and the.
Yeah, I'm gonna rewind it, so.
This historical fiction is only one genre
and also black people aren't like a new thing.
But more importantly, it's.
That doesn't even like, that doesn't counter that guy
or what he said.
Yeah, it doesn't counter that guy.
Eric, this doesn't look good, okay?
Eric, you're dumb for relevancy.
Which is not very persuasive.
And I don't even feel like I have the full context
of this guy here.
That's what I was saying, like,
I don't know exactly what he's,
yeah, I don't know exactly what he's talking about.
What is his subject?
Is he referring to a specific time period
or a movie or a piece of work?
You know, it's too out of context.
This historical fiction is only one genre
and also black people aren't like a new thing.
Yeah, okay, yeah.
We, no one is arguing that black people are a new invention.
They were invented 20 years ago.
Stupid idiot.
What a disingenuous prick.
But, I mean, oh, come on, Ragsy,
you're standing in line at GameStop
for the new Black Man 2000.
It's fucking ridiculous.
It's one of those things where if someone says,
oh, I'm trying to depict this event
that happened in history
where no black people were present,
and you're like, yeah, but black people existed.
Black people aren't new.
It's like, it's completely irrelevant.
Total non-secret.
Asian women fought in Norway and World War II,
you're uneducated.
I didn't say no women fought in World War II.
It's not something I've ever said.
Just FYI, I said that there wasn't 50-50 men
and women in Dunkirk.
If I'm wrong on that, welcome to prove it.
Well, that's not very progressive of you.
Yeah, I know, right?
Black people are discussing
when black people were invented now.
Thank you, Eric, for opening up that discussion.
And also, black people aren't a new thing.
But more importantly, it's a different distinction
than the one from our red.
Oh, Eric, oh boy.
I know this clip, oh boy.
This is a clip from my video where I point out
the reason why this is forced diversity.
Because I don't have a problem
with a transgender character being in the game,
but even transgender people hated this character.
They hated this because it was so,
they said it was tokenism.
They said it makes them look bad.
It says that it dehumanizes them
and turns them into essentially a representative.
She literally opens up the conversation
by saying something to the effect of,
my name used to be Stefan,
but now I'm Stephanie or something like that.
I mean, obviously I'm paraphrasing it, but yeah.
Why would he?
It's like transgender people.
They don't just say, I used to be a guy.
But he does this as if you needed
to have seen Wolf's video to get the reference.
Like, what is he trying to sell here?
Just because I'm aware of the controversy
surrounding this character when Mass Effect Andromeda
came out, because everybody hated it.
Even like Polygon and Kotaku were like,
yeah, this is obvious tokenism.
This is not the hill to die on, Eric.
Yeah.
But it's weird because it's almost like he's referring
to it as if he showed us the clip, but he hasn't.
It's just like, this is a thing Wolf said.
And it's just like, wait.
I don't trust you.
Yeah, you didn't play this clip.
Smart enough to find out what forced diversity is,
is not someone I think I can trust.
Deep into criticizing science fiction and fantasy,
historical accuracy is only one of many grievances he has
with how things are going right now.
See, Rey is an example of forced diversity
because she is explicitly written to be a wands
and that is the entire focus of the character.
While Ripley is a better example because-
We actually know for a fact that she was forced diversity
because JJ Abrams literally said that he did diverse.
So unless you're going to deny reality-
And man, starting to flip out on these visuals too.
Yeah, this is when the visuals start like,
well, you'll see.
Just because you have a button that makes the screen
do a thing doesn't mean you should use it.
I sincerely apologize to all the people
that are about to suffer severe epileptic seizures.
You must be doing it on purpose
because nobody's this retarded.
Yeah, you can't accidentally do it.
What is the goal here, Eric?
Is it to make it feel like an acid trip?
Like why?
I wish I was on acid watching this video.
Well, I mean, you're about to see
like a visual acid trip in this video.
And I think it's also important to note
that you can have a character who the narrative
is built around her being a woman.
You know, if she was a suffragette
or if she was trying to do something
that women weren't historically allowed to do at the time
or, you know, things of that nature.
Like if you cast a suffragette as a black bad,
you might be like, hmm, this is a bit strange.
Someone said that this is diversity editing.
Diversity editing.
No, diversity is good, though.
Force diversity is good, though.
A natural aspect of herself induced
from her personality traits.
She's a well-written protagonist first and foremost.
And again, I haven't seen The Force Awakens,
but I'm taking Fluff Boy.
We need to go back.
Did he say that about Ray?
Her female-ness is incidental.
No, I'm pretty sure he's talking about,
like you said, like, by comparison to Ripley.
The entire focus of the character.
While Ripley is a better example
because her female-ness is incidental
and natural aspects of herself
induced from her personality traits.
She's a well-written protagonist first and foremost.
And again, I haven't seen The Force Awakens,
but I'm taking Fluff Boy's word here
because it helps my point.
But he wants to disagree with us.
But you saw The Last Jedi.
It's editing.
He's even fucking tilted the film.
Why?
Yeah, man.
Well, I don't know if he's seen The Last Jedi
at this point of the video, but...
Maybe.
Maybe not.
Yeah, it's just...
I mean, I don't know how you can possibly
try and refute this point
if you haven't even seen the movie in question.
I mean, not that you would even agree
because you clicked.
We've got, like, a whole half a video left, so...
Who knows what he's gonna do?
Also, they said they were memeing with the woman comment.
That's fine.
It's hard to distinguish when I have no idea
who the person is and it's said in text
because there's no tone.
But even still, women...
There are women who fought in World War II, correct?
In some way, shape, or form in different...
Yes, very small amount, yes.
So if someone said no woman ever fought in World War II,
they would be incorrect.
Yes, generally when people say women didn't fight
in World War II, they mean that in broad sense
because there were negligible numbers of women
who did fight in World War II.
And yes, we should appreciate whatever sacrifices
they may or may not have made, but...
It's not devaluing what they did
to just be truthful about what the statistics are.
It awakens, but I'm taking Fluffboy's word here
because it helps my point.
But meanwhile, some guy called TheATZShow
is pointing to Pixar's Coco
as a positive example of diversity
because it takes the setting of Mexico
and shows it in the most authentic way possible,
extending Mexican culture all throughout every square inch.
That's not diverse.
That video isn't diverse because it's only Mexicans.
I don't...
This is weird as well.
Why are you jumping over to a different channel's opinion
on a different film?
Like, it's okay.
Coco is an amazing movie and you should all see it,
but it is not diverse because it's only Mexicans.
If diverse means to have multiple races, then...
If diverse means what its definition is, then no.
That is not, unless you're like diverse characters,
like there's a dog, and there's humans,
and there's skeletons, but they're humans too, but...
Hmm, I guess, yeah, it has dead people in it,
so that's diverse.
It has a lot of dead Mexicans
on the other side of the border.
But still, he's like, Wolf says that Ray's bad
because it focuses on her being a woman,
and Ripley's good because the aspects of her femaleness
are ancillary to the core parts of a character,
and it's like, okay, so what's he gonna say to counter?
And then he goes, now there's this other channel
that says Coco is a good example of diversity.
And it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, what are you doing?
Like, why are we jumping over...
How's this factor in back to what Wolf...
...shows it in the most authentic way possible,
extending Mexican culture all throughout
every square inch of the screen?
Mr. ATZ doesn't want characters made different races
without owning that decision
and having it become an integral part of the story.
Why are you implying...
No, why are you implying
that Mexicans have to act a certain way?
What does this have to do with Wolf's point, though,
even if this guy said something completely different?
Do you know what I mean?
I'm like, why are we...
How many layers are we looking at right now?
Three, which is just awful.
It makes me want to look away.
Don't do that.
Characters made different races without owning that decision
and having it become an integral part of the story.
And for those of you who...
But it's not because they are that race,
it's because they are that culture.
Yeah, it's a result of the place that they're depicting.
These are the people who are there.
Do you think is the dog Hispanic?
Is it a Hispanic dog?
It's a character that grew up in Mexico.
They will be part of Mexican culture,
regardless of their race.
Races are not nationalities.
It's like if I was born in South Africa,
if I was born in Japan,
I would be Japanese
and Japanese culture would be my culture,
but I would be white.
I mean, yeah, if the parents stayed the same as well, I guess.
The thing is, it's kind of implying that if you look this way,
this is your culture.
And the other thing is, it's creepy,
it's almost the implication that white is not diverse,
but black is diverse, that's how it works.
Yeah, a lot of people unironically treat the word diverse
as less white people.
The less white people there are, the more diverse it is.
That's why Black Panther was called an extremely diverse film.
Even though it's 95% Black actors.
And again, white was bad.
We don't even have a problem with that.
Or Coco, that's fine.
But calling it diverse is weird.
This doesn't make sense.
This video is terrible.
Yeah, I think that's one thing I'd like to ask Eric
if he agrees or disagrees with the statement
that a film filled with one race would be diverse in terms of race.
I wonder if is there a contradiction there or is he fine with that?
Dory.
If you found a bunch of Hispanic people who lived in,
I don't know, North Dakota,
if there are Hispanic people in North Dakota.
If there's anyone in North Dakota.
Yeah, if there's anyone in North Dakota.
And you plop them down in Mexico City
during a De de los Muertos celebration,
do you think they'd like know what to do?
Like you think that they would genetically,
being Hispanic as an ethnicity,
just know what you're supposed to do
in that culture that isn't their own?
You know, it's like, do you think I'm a white guy?
I'm a white, I got German in me.
I don't know anything about Oktoberfest.
I don't know anything.
I can't speak German, you know, stuff like that.
I don't know.
But that's essentially what he,
that's the equivalent of what's being,
the point is being made here.
Apparently someone just sent me a message
because they've been back and forth thing with Joseph on Twitter
about the subjective video.
Apparently his conclusion is,
you can't call an opinion objective,
but you can call it informed versus non-informed.
What makes sense to you guys?
You can have an objective, you can have an objective.
We're gonna get to that eventually, one century.
That's gonna be a whole different thing.
Yeah, let's make sure Eric has his time first.
Thanks for watching this video.
I wanna put it this way.
I want diversity.
Why?
I want it to be quality material
and not just like baiting people with token characters.
All right.
Earlier this year, a movie called Latin Lover came out
and it had box office success.
It had Latins in it,
but the whole thing was geared on the lowest jokes possible.
They're pretty much just summed up to,
ha ha, he got hit with a tortilla and, you know, I'm Mexican.
Well, it just looks like stereotype jokes
that are relatively bottom of the barrel writing.
As for like, is it tokenism?
I think that's what they're going for.
How to be a Latin lover, is that the name of the film?
Yeah, I guess.
In that case, they're clearly,
they're aiming to have a silly.
Yeah, you can have good nature, like ethnic humor.
You got Homer.
Homer is an example of this, but for American.
Look at every Medea movie.
Yeah, that too.
I don't, cause that's another thing.
Apparently, because I did look at the comment section,
they were like, what Wolf calls force diversity
is actually called tokenism.
And it's the idea that,
South Park illustrates it perfectly.
They have the entire school is like filled
with white children, and then you have token comes in,
and he's the black kid.
It's like the idea that you bring in another race
as the token of being like, you know,
there's people who are, well, Lelish League
referred to Appabed or Friggy as our token, right?
Cause we get to be like, hey, we're not racist if they're on.
It's obviously a joke, but the,
that's what people are accusing force diversity of,
which I think is, I think that's two different things.
You can force, if you bring in one,
and they don't actually do anything in the story,
they practically just stand there,
as opposed to Ray, who's basically the protagonist.
You know, it's complicated.
I think there's a bit more nuance to it,
but even if it were the same thing, it wouldn't make,
it wouldn't change Wolf's points
if they thought of it as the exact same idea.
Similarities.
I suppose, thinking about it, I guess,
cause if you did shove one, like a black character
into an all white cast and they didn't even do anything,
you could be like, although I was trying to force diversity,
I just, I would just, it's so incompetent
that I would actually prefer referring to it as tokenism,
cause it's like, yeah, you just brought in a token.
And that applies both ways to any,
whatever you're up to.
If you introduce a character that has nothing
and no reason other than they're identified purely by
something like their sexuality,
like their race, like whatever else,
it is the kind of writing that's just like, ugh.
Someone said, are you saying Apa and Frini
don't do anything or contribute to the eFap plot?
No, the only reason we have them around
is just so that we can say,
see, we don't hate brown people.
We have green friends.
Yeah, we have green friends.
How many green friends do you have?
Frini usually expects people to assume
that he's white as well, which is kind of interesting.
I genuinely did think he was.
I thought so too.
And then he just mentioned it when I was like,
oh, I thought, oh, all right.
I never, I thought it could go either way.
I had no idea.
He's tall too.
He's like, I didn't really ever.
And I guess like, really?
He's six, five?
He's like tall, something like that.
He can correct me later.
He mentioned like his height once.
I know it started with a six.
I'm like, damn.
Well, okay, I guess I'm looking up at the tall green man.
Got it.
And you know what?
It's not false diversity in the eFap writing,
the eFap episodes,
because they were just,
they just happened to be people we knew.
So it's completely natural writing.
The eFap writing team.
Our diversity is natural.
We have organic diversity on eFap.
The eFap writing team.
They're great.
Well, Jared Genesis is the chief editor of eFap writing.
He's doing a really great job.
You know how he knows how to pick them.
They, you know, you got a lot of people invested.
Everybody we've covered on eFap,
they usually are writing team.
They become a part of the writing team
once we've covered them.
It's a very strange system,
but it just, it keeps it fresh, you know?
Yeah, you know, if you went up to Jared and asked,
hey, what do you think of eFap?
He'd be like, they did it okay the way that they did it.
Oh, Jared.
Yeah, I don't know.
See, there's a lot to talk about with,
with what's being covered here, but it's just so brief.
We can only really go with whatever conclusion
Eric makes from these clips, I guess.
He got, he got hit with a tortilla and, you know,
I'm Mexican and I eat tortillas.
Here's all my money.
See, like, I actually-
Yeah, but Mexicans sitting each other with tortillas
is kind of funny.
This is the thing.
Like, what's the problem?
Are you saying it's bad because it doesn't represent
a fully fledged character?
And I'd be like, well, what do you think they were doing?
Do you think they were trying to present a fully fledged,
or they were trying to make jokes out of stereotypes?
Yeah, they're just trying to make people laugh
because people hitting each other with tortillas is funny.
Homer Simpson is one of the most classic examples
of an American stereotype.
He's the stupid guy.
He is so bigoted and racist.
He just makes all yellow people look bad.
Exactly.
That's true.
That's true, dude.
But yeah, like, I wonder,
because I haven't seen this film,
but I wonder if there are Latina characters
who are actually, you know, not stereotypes in this film.
Because I'm willing to bet there's at least one.
Someone said I took a vacation
and stayed in the sun too long, so I turned black.
That's how it happens.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, I guess.
This is because the wolf is black now.
Interesting.
Crispy Baldy.
I'm Mexican, and I eat tortillas.
Here's all my money.
See, like, I actually agree with this guy.
I like him a lot.
WTF, I hate forced diversity now.
Anyways, the ATZ man-
Wait, what?
Okay.
Okay, so video-
Was that a joke?
Was a...
I don't know.
I don't know, because the ATZ show,
what he said made sense.
Well, yeah, you definitely see the,
why you would be frustrated with,
if you wanted a Latina character,
and then they just introduced the stereotype.
That's absolutely gonna be fucking annoying.
Because the way that the ATZ show
was talking about diversity was pretty much
just variety in a medium.
He's like, not everything's the same.
You know, it just spices it up.
Cause it's different.
It's a different setting and different people.
But he doesn't want it to be forced for its own sake.
He wants that to be natural and organic.
And that's fine.
That, I agree.
I have-
Is he about to turn this around though?
I really can't remember anymore.
I don't know.
While you discuss it amongst yourselves,
let me use the loon and grab a beer.
Cause I need alcohol.
Yeah, kind of.
I'll read some slumber chats.
Slumber chats?
Ralph's avatar, Ralph rags avatar.
Looks like he saw me drop the soap.
Oof.
Beautiful way to start these.
Remember when Dunkirk movie came out
and some people attacked it for not having a diverse cast
for historical event?
Yeah, that's obviously what we were referencing.
Wolf, he called you a boy.
Don't you see how offensive that is?
Yeah, Wolf.
Boy, boy.
Write your credit card numbers so Wolf don't die.
What?
I think he might be referencing,
have you seen the videos of Attention All Halo Gamers
or Attention All Dark Souls Gamers?
I think I sent you one.
I think, yeah, I have a vague memory of that.
Yeah, it's like some old dude on Fiverr
who like makes joking videos.
He's not on Fiverr anymore.
I think he got banned.
He made videos like Attention All Halo Gamer.
Noble Six is alive and he needs your credit card number,
the three digit code on the back and the expiration date
so you can save him and it's just funny.
So I think he might be referencing that.
If not, well, I'm stupid, but oh well.
I go in to interpret it as that.
I'm moderate and I approve Wolf is not moderate.
Well, there you go.
Vostavisti is when they have a strong female character
instead of having a strong character that is female
or when the race gender becomes more important
than the rights for the character.
Yeah, if you're gonna sell them based on the fact
that your character is female alone, it's just like,
that's fine, what does that have to do with anything?
It's like, we've written 90% of the character already
because she's female, it's like, oh.
Welcome back, Wolf, we missed you, man.
Good to have you back.
I'm assuming this 25 all goes to more,
but I hope the three of you can somehow share
like Good Little Boy is gonna go play
with my dangus in the shower now.
What a way to help that thing.
Yeah, I'll buy Wolf a game on Steam at some point
to somehow flush that through.
Eric, the straw man, a ranger, taxon.
You can definitely go there.
Ripley is a character first and a female second.
Ray is the female first in a character,
well, maybe in episode nine.
It's like, yeah, she'll finally be a character, hopefully.
Welcome back, Wolf.
Take money, this doesn't go to Wolf, guys.
If you wanna donate to Wolf,
you're gonna have to wait for him to do a stream, I guess.
Or have you got like a PayPal link you use?
I'm not gonna ask people for money.
And I mean, if they wanna donate to me,
if I like actually make something, that's one thing,
but I don't like asking for money and shit.
I didn't even wanna promote my old Patreon
because I was like, that just seems shitty.
Make a video and then do it as much as you want.
And don't forget, Skillshare, Audible,
Skillshare, I don't know all of the things.
Ray is a force dumpster.
I got the tortillas to celebrate diversity.
You fricking stereotype.
Ray is clearly an avatar for Kathleen Kennedy,
a brunette girl, like both leads for Solo and Rogue One,
just like Kay Kray, possibly.
Can't wait for episode nine reveals
that Ray is so bland
because she's just a manifestation of the force
and then all the apologists flip
and stop praising her bland character, Ray is.
I mean, I'm interested to see if he's got any plans like that
because what do you do with Ray in episode nine, you know?
I love politics, I love democracy, I love arts.
Yes, love the ball.
What are you gonna say?
I assume her parents.
Oh, what of her parents is that alien
from The Force Awakens that she sold shit to?
Oh, Ocoplut.
Is that your dad, he has a name?
Yeah, yeah, I don't even know why I know that,
but his name is Ocoplut.
I'm pretty sure she says his name
when they're talking about the compressor.
I haven't seen the movie in a while,
but that guy and the spaceship that flew away
was a separation.
Snacks, give him up, Rags, this is a communist dream.
No.
He called him a boy.
Hitler is an example of forced diversity.
I'm not sure I understand that, exactly.
The Metro games made me centrist
because shooting both Nazis and commies just felt right.
Hey, Pavel was a great guy.
At least you get to see women in aliens, that's true.
Very true.
There's plenty of good female characters
where being a woman is central to the character,
but none of these bland rays are allowed to be feminine either
beyond just simply being a woman.
Yeah, I mean, you know how Ripley's got a nurturing,
sort of, motherly attitude towards Newt?
It's like, what can you reference?
Yeah, I mentioned in my video that Eric just...
Yeah, Eric didn't cover that, fuck that.
That would get in the way, Wolf, cover that.
But this is the problem.
It's like, what about Ray?
Blah, blah, blah.
It's like, every time you ask that question,
there's nothing to grasp about Ray.
So, yeah, the answer to that question
is just nothing again.
And plus, nowadays, looking at it this way,
whenever something is, whenever you have a female character
and there's some sort of a flaw with her,
or she's portrayed as stupid,
or any other negative aspect that's called sexist,
and you're not allowed to do that,
because it's a negative stereotype of women
and you can't share that in expensive.
But with men, men could be fucking stupid
and retarded and idiotic and selfish and cruel and mean.
You can make a man anything you want.
Nobody will bat an eye.
That's because they are selfish, cruel and mean.
Look at you two, and me.
That's true.
Look at you five, it's horrible.
That's why, fuck them.
Remember the black actress who played Anne Boleyn?
I do not know of that one.
Who?
Anne Boleyn is for, that's a Henry VIII thing, isn't it?
No, that's probably what they're referencing.
I don't know the movie or TV show or project
that that happened, though.
I've never heard that name before in my life.
Wow, you don't know your fucking history, Wolf.
God, Wolf, yes, we missed you.
Mazel Tov.
Look, I am, how are you doing, my good man?
He said, buy a B.O.
See, Kyle.
Thank you for calling the BF5 nonsense.
A lot of YouTube has tiptoed around it.
Yeah, I mean, a lot of people covered it
from what I remember, but I know that there was a-
I remember a lot of people, like,
making a lot of videos on it.
There's a lot of people who didn't want
to have a take on it, though, right?
They were just like, eh, just fucking, you know, eh.
The people, you know, the boogies that don't have opinion.
Well, I think there was a controversy
about, like, how a lot of channels
that are basically thriving thanks to Battlefield games
were avoiding talking about that aspect.
They were just like, I just want to play the fucking game,
okay, I just want to cover the fucking game
and go on with my life, I don't know.
It's kind of like the people
that are playing Black Ops 4,
even though it's like an awful, terrible, horrible game.
But it's like, no, it's bad.
I've not played it.
I've wished I didn't play it.
Great to see you back on, Wolf.
On Battlefield 5, a YouTuber named American Krogan
went through the campaign and pointed out
all the diversity manipulations,
like replacing an entire Norwegians as well.
That was a good video.
Yeah, I really liked that video.
Yeah, that was a good video.
American Krogan is, he makes some good stuff.
He pops up every once in a while.
I like his stuff for the most part.
I should check that out.
If Patrick just right and Quentin
band together to create an anti-EFAP,
what would they name themselves?
My money's on Evolved Critics, also HiWolf.
I'd want it to be a reverse of eFAP,
so I guess Paffy.
Pave?
Pave?
Pave?
Pave sounds just pathetic enough, doesn't it?
Fucking Pave.
Pathetic and fucking egregious.
Here's your cut for getting Wolf back.
Also, someone needs to introduce diversity fanatics
to international cinema.
Yeah, that's something that they don't like to acknowledge,
is that Bollywood and a lot of cinema in Asia
will be very non-diverse, but that doesn't matter.
I don't know if, does the argument evolve into,
Black Panther is diverse,
because when you drop Black Panther
into all of American cinema,
it now has, we now as a result
have more Black people in cinema.
Do you know what I mean?
If you use the same logic,
then every film that has nothing but white people
is very diverse,
because whites are a minority on the planet.
Yeah, and not to mention that that's a bit reductionist
to only consider American cinema
versus Bollywood and other parts of the world.
Glad you're back, Wolf. I missed you.
Thank God Emperor Wolf is back.
So this is how media dies with thunderous fapping.
Someone commented after that saying,
not my most thunderous fap.
Rag, I hate people who eat in video slash streams, zzzz.
I mean, it's okay.
I was doing it for the purpose of being obnoxious
so that only the real fans would stay.
I saw the trailer for Mary Queen of Scots
and there was a Black guy in the English court.
Would this be forced diversity since it's based on history?
If there was a Black guy there historically,
then I have no problem with it.
Yeah, I would need to know more about it.
I do, however, I doubt that Sir Lancelot was a Black guy.
So yeah, it depends on how you do it.
I mean, if somebody was Black historically,
or if it makes sense that there would be a Black guy there,
then yeah, go for it, absolutely.
But if you're gonna try and portray a historical setting,
I really value accuracy.
It helps with the immersion a great deal for me.
And I don't think that you should just throw in stuff,
especially because depending on how serious
you try and pass it off,
it crosses the lines into historical revisionism.
Dude, are you kidding? Lancelot was totally Black.
Yeah.
He always, at the round table,
he was always like, yo, nigga, passeth that weedeth.
You guys weren't even there.
Passeth the herb.
Guys weren't there.
God.
Passeth the devil's lettuce.
Angry Joe demonized those who had issues on with Battlefield 5
calling them MAGA hat wearing Trump supporters
and called them all SJW insult in the book.
Oh, I remember that.
Rags made a video on that.
It was the last video he ever made before he died.
Correct, and it was not monetized, so hooray.
Thanks, you two.
And to clarify, it's not that you have to have an issue
with what the guy said.
It's just the idea that if you reviewed the game
and say you should buy it, it's quality.
Downward Thrust did that.
Then you should expect people in the comments section
to rip you a new one, because they're like,
have you fucking seen what they've said to their fan base?
Someone asked.
They expect the advocates for covering the game
to stick up for the fan base.
You probably understand what I mean by that.
The idea is that EA decided to inject politics
and diversity messages and social justice stuff
into the game, so it's not fair if you demand
reviewers not cover that.
You can't just have it one way where the company
can say, yeah, we're doing all this stuff in the game,
and reviewers aren't allowed to cover that
in the review of it.
It's clearly an aspect of the game that EA put in,
so it should be reviewed and commented on.
It's part of the game.
It was made a part of the game.
The last one is, have you guys ever noticed
that Red Letter Media, despite consistently shitting
on the obsession of nostalgia in film,
are in fact nostalgia obsessed themselves?
I mean, if I was to be specific, I don't know,
they usually have a problem with the arbitrary references,
like fan service or reigniting an old, good thing
into a new, bad thing, but they do reference
a lot of their old stuff as an example
of stuff that was better.
I don't know if I'd say, I'm assuming you're trying
to point out a bit of a hypocrisy.
I'd probably need a bit more detail before I would agree.
I mean, we kind of do the same thing a lot.
A lot of our favorite things are from long ago
rather than new.
Then we will also claim that we hate the shit
out of things getting rebooted and redone, so yeah.
Watch Red Letter Media so I don't know anything about it.
I mean, it seems fine to me, like it seems consistent
to me is what I was saying.
Anyway, let's continue with Eric.
A lot.
WTF, I hate forced diversity now.
Anyways, the ATZ man, Revenge of the Dreamer
and Notices Bugle all have different ideas
for what constitutes a forced life.
I don't even, I don't even, I don't, what was the joke?
I don't know, it might be an inside joke.
Notice is bold.
Oh.
And then that was the sound of the bugle, so.
Which of the Dreamer, okay, that's fine.
Notices Bugle all have different ideas for what.
Yeah, because he had the O.W.O. thing
on his face for a second there.
Constitutes a forced diversity.
This is because art is cool like that.
We all get to bring our own opinions to the table,
but I'd like everyone to be honest.
Who isn't being honest?
Let's see.
I don't like the structure of this.
It's like presents Wolf's opinion on two characters
in one film versus another one.
And then this guy's opinion on how
you should have historical structure accuracy.
Then this guy's opinion on Coco
and how that does or does not count as diversity
compared to a film about a Latin, a Latina stereotype.
And then he says, and everyone's allowed their own opinion,
but I want them to be honest.
And you're just like, which one are we, what are you?
Yeah, which one's dishonest?
Which are they all three?
Is he implying that they're all three liars?
I don't know, I guess we're gonna find out, hopefully.
I don't just like that he's the one calling
me dishonest when he deliberately took out
like the vast majority of my video.
Yeah.
Also, this is, I remember this shit.
This is the voice of Hbomberguy people.
Oh God.
In short, diversity should not be your first priority
and nor should any other political message.
A few examples, hiring for diversity instead of competence,
building a bridge to make a political point about borders
instead of building it for structural integrity
and usefulness.
Creating an animation so you can put furries in it
rather than creating an animation
to tell a compelling story.
The general principle,
if anything but quality is your primary goal,
your work will suffer.
Yeah, that makes sense.
The way they paint this comment is like a monster.
Yeah, this comment makes a lot of sense.
And if we all adhered to these rules
when we were making things,
then our work would all get better.
Yeah, guys, imagine if Tolkien was more concerned
with dwarf representation in the Lord of the Rings
and actually telling a good story.
The part that gets me,
isn't this self-evident the,
if anything but quality is your primary goal,
your work will suffer, i.e. lose quality?
If anything but quality is your primary goal,
you will lose quality.
Yeah, I mean, I really hope he expands on this
because this seems like a very sensible comment.
Especially the hiring for diversity
instead of competence.
Is that deniable?
Is that even possible to deny when the goal is competence?
Yeah, I was like,
like, yeah, you might be the best for the job,
but, you know, she's black, so we're gonna hire her.
Also, she's a black woman,
so we're gonna hire her because it's diverse.
She's gonna be playing Gollum in the new, like, wait, what?
Even though you worked harder for it
and you're more suited for the job and more qualified,
you, unfortunately, are not as woman or black as she is.
So we are going to hire her
even though she wouldn't do as good of a job.
Can you imagine just,
can you just imagine reading this comment
and thinking, bad?
Like, I don't get it.
What part of this comment is it?
I hope they elaborate on what comment is terrible.
Oh yeah, I guess we'll find out.
I like how you still call it them, they.
Part two.
Who the fuck did you fool?
Oh, they're not even gonna,
they're not even talking about the comment.
Well, apparently, I'm fooling you.
What's with the spigging, genuinely?
Yeah, why are you yelling?
Why are you spigging out?
What the fuck?
Who the fuck did you?
So what was wrong with that comment?
That comment made total sense.
I guess we'll find out.
But also, structure, man.
You presented three different people's,
three different arguments across three different things
that you said, I want you to be honest,
then have this whole comment.
And now you're saying, who the fuck do you think,
who are you talking to, everyone?
I don't know.
God damn it, Eric.
I wanna help you, man.
Just give me a hand.
Part two.
Who the fuck do you think you're fooling?
I can just picture him recording that
and he's like, I hope the parents are out.
How many takes did he take?
Stop yelling in there, Eric.
At the computer box, it can't hear you.
Mr. Wolf, have you flexed your creative muscles yet?
I don't know where you are,
but there's a small chance that you're like two hours
into a stream with your friends and you have-
Oh, let's pause it.
Let's see how far we are.
Two hours and 42 minutes.
Close to three hours, sorry.
Yeah, fuck, Eric, you fucked it up completely.
Yeah, you suck.
God, you need to guess it right, Eric.
The best part is this isn't even the first time
he mentions this show.
Oh yeah, he's very meta.
He's very self-aware.
Unfortunately, he thought this would work well,
some reason, I don't know.
He's welcome to come on and defend his shitty fucking video.
I have an audience watching.
So if you don't mind, please take a second
to pause the video and tell us your better version of Ray.
Okay, well, that's the part where we-
Should we take it one at a time?
Who wants to go first?
Rags, do you wanna go?
Let me see.
How would I make Ray a better character?
Well, I would start from the very beginning.
Maybe instead of having her parents,
the issue of her parents be shrugged off like that,
you know, where she accepted.
I think a lot of it has to do with the acting, honestly.
They have-
Let's pretend like we can get a great actress
and we need to have the writing down.
If we don't wanna get complicated,
then we could keep the structure of what they have
in The Force Awakens,
where her yearning for belonging, right,
from her parents is shifted towards the resistance
as being her family and the people who care about her.
The problem is that Daisy Ridley
does such a terrible job acting in the film
that that potential idea isn't really gonna be realized
when the audience looks at it.
And so it's gonna be passed off
because it's just so easily shifted away from.
And we don't see any difference between her before,
you know, when she's looking for her parents
and afterwards when she finds belonging in the resistance,
even though she doesn't really even have any point
to be in the resistance.
They need to expand upon that point
because right now in the movie,
it's a reasonable thing to ask.
Why exactly is she part of the resistance?
Why does she hate to first order so much?
There's no reason for her to even be here.
All right.
I think for, oh, sorry.
No, go ahead, go ahead.
Oh, okay.
So for me, I would try to like,
make solidify her character
in a way that actually makes sense.
Because if you notice,
it's more of a problem with The Force Awakens,
but it does kind of trickle into The Last Jedi a bit.
I'll start off at the beginning
with her character development or rather lack thereof.
If you notice throughout The Force Awakens,
Lyle McDouchebag points us out a lot in his video on it.
She changes her mood and personality all the time.
Sometimes she's all wondrous
and wants to explore the world.
Other times she's like, I hate everyone.
I want you all to leave me alone.
Stupid droid, go away.
Two seconds later, I'm gonna be your mother,
poor little droid.
Come with me.
We're gonna have a little fun chat.
I think she just lacks any solid motivations
for anything she does.
She doesn't have really anything going
for her character-wise.
I mean, that kind of applies to all the characters,
but since we're just talking about Rey in this instance,
we really need to solidify why she would feel the desire
to help anyone or do anything,
why she would care about Kylo Ren,
why she would care about Han Solo or Luke,
who she didn't even believe existed
like however many days before.
That's where I would start.
Yeah, my question would be,
can I do this from the ground up
or am I forced to use not only the actress,
but basically the same structure?
I can only change maybe dialogue and histories and stuff.
And you'd be like, hmm, well, at best then,
I can only hope to improve.
I still think it would be, it's kind of,
it's hopeless in that if I had my choice,
I would just undo all of the sequel trilogy
and change it all,
like go to completely different radical direction.
But if this is a question of,
I don't know how I'd improve her,
just make a simple setup and pay off about her character
and allowing her to grow.
For instance, she has no shits to give about the Republic,
yet she somehow does in the film.
I would definitely need to make a reason for that.
Give her a reason to be invested in it.
Really focus on her and Han instead of, I don't know,
just cut as much time as you can
to push as much time as you can with those two connecting
and make her, I know it sounds cliche,
I was like, give it some goddamn flaws,
make her wrong every once in a while,
make her angry, but not feel-
Yeah, make her too emotional.
Yeah.
And to bounce off of that, like give her a reason
for being able to use the force
as proficiently as she does.
I would just, yeah,
genuinely would reduce her force power by like
to a 10th of what she has at most, if it were me.
Yeah.
Really shit.
And even have it, you know,
when she's eating her food and stuff,
you could just try and drop hints
that she's trying to, she'd noticed something.
You know, Broom Boy, they're trying to argue
that he would just figure out that he has the force
by accident, but it's nothing impressive
if all he can do is grab a broom.
Maybe have that set up with her a little bit.
Just have it focusing on like a pebble or something,
see it move a little bit,
but we don't know if it was the force or the breeze.
And then-
It would be so easy to show that in the film
in growing up on Jakku,
where she's having a desperate moment or she's angry
or, you know, she's lashing out at something
and she loses control and a little force comes out
and she notices it.
And so she tries to tap into the potential of it.
Yeah.
And all these suggestions would still be on the assumption
that we've been told our protagonist has to be female.
Let's mention all these assumptions have been echoed
throughout the star community
since the force awakens came out.
And so all I was saying was like,
do we want to try and make something that's intrinsic
to her being female?
Is that a part of our requirements too?
Because I don't really know.
I mean, that would have to depend on the situation.
Because I mean, for example, Ripley,
her femaleness, her motherly instincts
kind of kicked in around aliens
when Newt became a character to-
And they did set up with who natural daughter had died
of old age at that point.
She was in cryosleep, yeah.
Yeah.
Which is great.
Alluded a little bit to it with the cat too.
Yeah, yeah, it's not out of nowhere.
Not so much, obviously, but you know.
So yeah, so follow up questions of this then would be,
can you have force diversity plus good writing?
Is that possible?
It's possible.
If the writer is good.
Yeah, it's absolutely possible,
but that doesn't erase the fact that it is force diversity.
But the bigger thing here is that,
can any of the three of us think of a single example
where force diversity resulted in good writing?
Because that's the point I was making in my video.
It's not that force diversity is totally incapable.
Because they never would have been a good character
because of force diversity.
It would have been because of good writing.
You know what I mean?
Exactly.
So yeah, force diversity just doesn't result
in anything but forced diversity.
And then-
That's the point I was-
The only argument I think that you could make,
it's a terrible one,
but the only argument I think you could make on that side
is that, well, because of our inclusion policy
and diversity policy,
we picked this actor who otherwise
wouldn't have gotten a shot.
And as a result, it turns out they were a pretty good actor.
Yeah, and you could be like,
we brought in a female black writer
just because we've had straight white writers
this whole time.
Turns out she's an amazing writer.
So the force diversity actually didn't have a problem.
But this is the thing-
But that's just playing the lottery.
The whole thing is force diversity has the potential
to where you get lucky.
You take a selection of-
It's playing the lottery.
You take a selection of people
and you choose the best writer.
You get the best writer.
If you choose the black female,
you might get the best writer.
You also might get the worst writer.
We have no idea.
Because you've not chosen on that criteria,
which is, that's why it's a complicated thing.
And I'm just saying from the perspective of many artists,
you do not want to force them
to make the stories as you think politically correct
or better for,
freedom is what artists need.
It's kind of what I'm getting at here.
I'm sure a lot of people would agree with that.
Here's the problem that Eric
and anyone that agrees with him
completely missed the point of my video is,
I wasn't arguing that force diverse-
Yes, I don't think force diversity should ever be a thing.
And I wasn't arguing that force diversity never,
absolutely never results in good writing.
Because you can have a good writer
that forced in a diverse character
just for the sake of diversity.
I can't think of any examples.
I'm perfectly willing to say that,
sure, there may be one out there.
I can't think of any off the top of my head.
But the problem is that how many pieces of media,
be they, or entertainment in general,
be they movies, video games, books, comics, TV shows,
how many that force diversity are actually good?
You know, are they good because of it
or are they good despite it?
Yeah, someone pointed out in the chat,
Morgan Freeman in the Shawshank Redemption,
in the book he was white.
Partly you can shock that up to the fact
that it's actually really accurate to the book.
And it's pretty difficult to go wrong with Stephen King.
So, I mean, well, that same director did make the mist.
So I guess there is that-
I had cool monsters.
Yeah, not really much else.
But anyway, he didn't really differentiate
from that character, it just made him black.
So you can kind of shock that up to,
okay, well, they just follow the source material
aside from the skin color of that one character.
And Morgan Freeman's name carries a lot of weight to it,
especially when it comes to box office stuff.
Yeah, because he was the only real big actor
in that movie, wasn't he?
And it's like, it's about the precedent
as opposed to the definitive results.
Because it's not like we can predict every single time,
every single scenario, it'll always be bad.
It's just not a good place to start.
There's no, as that comment pointed out
that they practically sold as basically being from Satan.
Matt Damon in that Chinese movie.
Yeah, I forget what that was called.
The Great Wall.
Maximum Overdrive.
Yeah, that was a bad movie.
I'm trying to think of like, oh yeah, well, you know,
awesome, someone said-
A relevant example would be Phasma.
Yeah.
She's in there because she's-
You had those interviews where
she's a sexualized character.
She's a woman, but she's strong.
And so she's got four-
The female villain, the first female villain
in Star Wars, guys?
She's got four minutes in both movies.
But together-
And she died twice.
Yeah, and this is the thing, she's a pitiful character
and she's only there because they wanted a woman there.
Yeah, she's there because they wanted to sell toys.
That too.
I mean, like I said, JJ Abrams already admitted
that he did diversity hires.
Now, what Eric is going to say after,
once we start playing the video again,
he's trying to back us into a corner and say,
I mean, someone in the chat pointed out,
he's basically trying to say,
if you can't write a better version of Rey,
you don't have a leg to stand on.
But he does point out, does it make it,
is it forced diversity still?
And the answer is yes, because JJ Abrams
hired based on diversity, not on talent.
So it's still forced diversity, but as we said,
you can theoretically have a well-written story
with forced diversity.
It's just very rare if it ever happens at all.
And it wouldn't be a result of the diversity.
It would be a result of lucking out
about that person's talent.
Yeah, or just having a good source material to back up.
Yeah, sometimes when you gamble, you win.
And usually you lose.
Someone did point out maximum overdrive in the chat
when I said it's hard to go wrong with Stephen King.
I never said it's impossible to go wrong.
And plus, on the Morgan Freeman thing,
Morgan Freeman's a good actor.
He's an excellent actor.
It probably didn't have anything to do with the fact
he was black, he's Morgan Freeman, he's a good actor.
It's like, let's get this guy that everyone
in the world loves.
And yes, it is still technically forced diversity,
but again, it's already based off
of an incredible story itself.
And like we said, Morgan Freeman's an amazing actor.
And you could argue it was in spite of forced diversity
in that they lucked out as we've gone over.
But it's Morgan Freeman.
So they knew what they were doing, right?
They didn't just hire a random black actor
that they hoped to, that was good.
Like Morgan Freeman at that point would have had,
was that, I don't know about it,
Morgan Freeman's career exactly,
but I'm not sure how much he had done up to that point.
So in the chat saying, if you can see
that people of color are disadvantaged,
why wouldn't you want to hire people of color?
They're just powerless and there should be
no attempts to help them.
Well, maybe the difference between you and me
is that I don't think so little of people of color,
but I don't think they can't earn things.
I think we've, didn't we have a black president
in America at one point?
Yeah, we elected Obama twice.
He was only half black, so he doesn't count.
How many successful black actors are there
before any of this stuff was even discussed?
Yeah, this is a ridiculous thing to say.
Black people can be disadvantaged,
especially in terms of income and all that stuff, but.
And I mean, what about all of the white actors?
Not to mention someone pointed out in the chat,
Morgan Freeman has in the past spoken out
against political correctness
in labeling and identity politics.
That's true.
Yeah, it isn't to be racist in the opposite direction
until you get the results you claim to want
and then you'll just magically stop being racist now.
Is it a matter of numbers, by the way?
So what about all of the good white actors
that are powerless to get the jobs they want?
Or what about the good white actors
that are booted out of their chance because of diversity?
Nobody out there, there's no outcry out there
to reduce the amount of black players
in the NFL and the NBA,
so that there's equal representation.
Yeah, and it's just the principle this is based on
is just not sound to me.
The idea is like the less black people we see in films,
the more we have to hire them.
It's like, that doesn't seem right at all.
It's like, I'm fully of the opinion
that if an actor is very good and that actor's black,
that actor could succeed.
Yeah, I'd happily watch an all black film
if I wouldn't have a problem with it,
if they're all talented.
Yeah, there's plenty of black actors I like.
I even like Chadwick, he's in Black Panther.
I didn't like that movie.
I liked him in Civil War.
Yeah, perfectly, yeah, that's a good example.
He is a good actor.
Since that movie was not good.
My favorite film, masquerade, all Asians,
they don't even speak English.
I don't care, I just wanna go.
House of flying daggers is pretty fun.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's a lot of films with no white people
that I enjoy, so.
War of the Arrows is a great one.
I don't know.
The whole thing just doesn't seem right
at the principal-based principle.
The B.B. Congle, that was another good one.
I really liked that movie.
But let's hear the counters.
Has the forced diversity become unforced?
Oh wait, sorry, we got a bit ahead.
Yeah, let's pause the video
and tell us your better version of Rey.
Are you finished?
No, you did that.
Has the forced diversity become unforced?
No.
No.
It just means that we brought a better character.
Yeah, that's part of my premise.
I was like, if you could let me go from the ground up,
I may have had a female protagonist,
but I need to sort everything else out first.
I have no problem with her being a woman,
but if you say it has to be a woman, now we're like, oh.
Which is what J.J. Abrams did.
He hired based on diversity first.
Yeah.
That's the problem.
It's still forced diversity,
but we can still make it work.
Yeah, and I think the writing kind of reflects
that the focus was not on the characters being characters.
Yeah, because characters-
None of the characters are characters.
And if any sense of character they have
is inconsistent with some other action
or theme within the films,
there's conflicts everywhere.
Now, Mr. Wolf, you're a smart puppy.
I know you care deeply about these movies
and storytelling in general,
and I have faith that the analysis you just brought
to the table was well thought out
and you've really let-
Wow, you ignored me and Rags' assessment.
What the fuck?
Yeah, that's very rude.
Also, if you have any grasp of Wolf's content,
you shouldn't have to have faith.
Oh, that's a very nice thing to say.
Yeah.
Ray flourishes a character.
Therefore, I have a reasonable expectation
that your character fix didn't begin
with rewriting her to be a man.
That's not, you could have forced diversity
where someone says this character has to be a man
because everyone else is a woman or something.
Exactly.
Well, no, guys, because remember,
if you're straight, white or male, you're not diverse.
If there's a female writer out there
who wants to make a story about a sorority house
or whatever, there's all girls,
and then some guy says you have to have
at least a male character in there.
You can make him gay or whatever,
but he has to be male.
I would have just as much of an issue.
I'd be like, leave her alone.
She can have an old female cast.
Yeah, like if they made a documentary about Shaka Zulu
and he was played by Sean Bean,
like I would have an issue with that.
Well, I wouldn't be down for that.
Like I feel like we're getting a framing here
where this only applies to anyone but white males.
That's strange.
Yeah, it is a bit odd.
That seems like an odd thing to think.
Our principle applies to everybody,
not just a select group.
I mean, maybe it did,
but then I just have to give up
on this entire conversation because you're beyond saving.
So we're beyond saving
if we have like a straightforward definition
of forced diversity.
I'm sorry, I have a principle that I apply.
We're beyond saving, guys.
I'm sorry for thinking something
and applying it equally to things.
For conversations because you're beyond saving.
But assuming you're a reasonable analyst
and you came up with other reasons to fix Rey
that don't relate to her gender,
perhaps the inspiration to make Rey a woman
isn't to blame here.
There is something independent of her womanhood
that is on the video right now.
What is going on the screen?
Yeah, okay, so what we're seeing here
is my animations flashing in front of my video.
Zoomed in as fuck.
Which is flashing.
Yeah, which is ridiculously zoomed in,
which is flashing just over Eric's face.
And then it's going to go into a super.
Which is that was his face.
Oh God, yeah.
And he's like half opacity to his own image
and he's also like inverted the colors or something.
Or like parts of it look inverted.
Oh God, this isn't even how,
I mean, Mauler, you already know
this isn't half as bad as it gets.
Yeah, this starts to get really, really bad.
I don't know, just, it takes work to do this.
Just don't.
Save yourself.
It takes work to do this, just don't.
I prefer, I prefer Shinobi Gates, little, you know.
I do too, I unironically prefer Shinobi's action figures.
Because at least we could like laugh at it a couple times.
Yeah, and I'm like, that's his,
that's who he's supposed to be.
Like that's his character.
And like, okay.
I think you could make it work.
If, you know, I'd say his voice is a bit of a wall
for a lot of people, but having action figures
represents your different characters
as you tell a narrative, well, analysis.
I think that could work if you.
Yeah, and the character could be the devil's advocate
and what other character could be this
and what other character could be, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, different parts of your personalities
could be different characters.
As long as you didn't private all your videos
just because people criticized you
and you could like make a solid sentence cogent.
And I don't mean cogent in the sense of like,
okay, you made a good argument.
I mean, cogent in the sense, like,
I couldn't understand a word he said.
Confirmation that we'll watch that, B-pop.
Kick V.
Kick V indeed.
But yeah, this is weird.
Like, I think this is me giving maximum benefit of the doubt.
He's trying to present, like,
how you've been an idiot this whole time
and you haven't seen the truth.
And he's throwing this shit on screen
to try and make us feel like we're in a trance of like,
oh shit, here comes the truth bomb.
Maybe, someone called it editing tripling.
Editing tripling.
You just told us all of it.
Expanding beyond Ray, the solution to every problem
posed in this video has nothing to do
with focusing less on diversity.
The solution is writing movies better.
Yeah, the problem would still be there.
It just would have been written well.
Yeah, the problem's still there.
And this is the thing.
Eric, like, how do you miss this?
It's like the whole point.
You miss, yeah, you miss the whole point.
You just like glossed over it.
Again, super benefit of the doubt.
If he's saying, but that doesn't matter to the outcome,
as in the art would still be fine
even if it was forced diversity because it was well written.
That's the point though, is we're talking about
that's a bad principle to start with.
Yeah, why would you gamble on terrible odds?
Yeah, someone in chat just asked as well,
see, what would be the problem?
Even if it is forced,
as long as they're well written, it's fine, right?
And it's like, what?
You wanna take that gamble every,
it would be the same as any other writing standard
that someone says.
You go, oh, you wanna make a movie based in a jungle?
You have to have at least one building in it.
You're like, why?
It's like, that's our quota.
Okay.
And then he's like, I wanna make a movie in space.
And then we go, yeah, we have to have at least three planets
that are either visited scene,
or you actually go on to them for a portion of the film.
And you go, why?
And it's like, oh, quota.
And it'll affect, if you have a vision
and then you have these quotas to have to deal with,
especially ones that change characters,
like that's serious when it comes to storytelling.
If it was well written, then it wouldn't be forced.
Yeah, the character can be a forced character,
even if that character is well written.
So, you know, and I can understand people being like,
but it doesn't matter ultimately, right?
Cause you'd still be good.
It's like, yeah, in that instance, but that.
But there are very, very few instances
that you can point to where forced diversity
resulted in a good movie.
In fairness, well, if this video was called
the problem with it, not forced diversity
will never result in anything
that could be considered entertaining.
Forced diversity sometimes can look you
into something that isn't terrible.
Forced diversity doesn't make things better
because of forced diversity.
Things can be good despite it though.
Duh.
Let's look at the Ghostbusters reboot.
I haven't seen it, so I'll again assume it's awful
for the sake of argument.
There is no reason that an often all Ghostbusters reboot
can't be good though.
Look, so I don't know how many people know this,
but Red Letter Media put it on their video,
one of the leaked emails from Paul Feig
is pitching this film and it opens with him being like,
so Ghostbusters, but with girls.
It's like from the get go, what are you doing?
And if you know anything about his directing style,
he was basically just like,
I'm gonna put a camera on these people,
give them a vague outline of the actual plot,
and then we're just gonna joke, we're just gonna have fun.
And that writing principle, those set of principles
results in a mess and it's not a surprise
why you would get this when your goals are there
or your restrictions are there.
Yeah, quality was not their focus.
But what Wolf never said was that having female characters
in a Ghostbusters film means it can't be good.
This is bizarre take.
There are more than four good female actresses out there.
These were not them.
Yeah, and it would be tough to write
because of considering what comes before it,
but if someone tasks me,
you have to make a Ghostbusters movie
that is continuing the universe
and it has to be four females.
I would be like, first of all, why?
Second of all, this is gonna be annoying,
but maybe we can do it.
Again, not impossible,
but why the hell have you put this fucking restriction
on us to begin with?
Yeah, if they focused more on writing good stories
and having characters and just making a quality film
instead of, oh, it's women.
The point is they're women,
then maybe the film wouldn't have been terrible.
You guys pretty much on board with how
you really shouldn't restrict artists in any real way.
Not to say that there's never an instance
where an artist should be told
that maybe they shouldn't do X, Y, or Z,
because I'm trying to think of one in my own head.
I'm sure you can get too crazy.
Yeah, the principle I'm trying to run from
is that artist tries to create a thing
and then you're like, no, do this.
No, do this.
Meddling and restrictions.
Yeah, people can create whatever they want to,
and I think they should be allowed to,
but at the same time,
I think a creator should focus on the quality
of what they do, because ultimately,
I want better and higher quality pieces of film
and games and books.
Can you see the chat?
No country for old women.
Save in private, but with women.
Save in private, man.
God damn it, he doesn't.
Well, I agree, women.
Jaws, but with women.
And I think that we're being more than reasonable here.
Like I said, if it comes down to the fact
that don't tell an artist they have to do something arbitrary
because it can affect the thing they had in the first place.
And if you start writing your story from the get-go
of these people have to be these genders,
these sexualities, these ethnicities,
you start to be like, what, what, what?
You're not writing a story anymore.
You're just doing some kind of weird representation thing.
It seems that we're nine minutes into this
and he has an offer and an example
of how forced diversity has helped something.
I mean, I hate to use the word straw man,
but I mean, let's be fair.
He keeps trying to counter Wolf with examples
that Wolf is actually like not necessarily against.
It's weird.
Yeah, I just want an example
of how forced diversity made something better
because of the forced diversity.
Anyway.
I'll again assume it's awful for the sake of argument.
There is so little that an all-female Ghostbusters reboot
can't be good though, given a good enough cast and crew.
Diversity, even diversity included
for superficial reasons can lead to both.
But the Ghostbusters aren't diverse.
They're all women.
Rise at the planet of the women.
I mean, it's just like, I guess one of them's black.
That's sort of diverse.
They have three white chicks and a black chick.
So, I mean, however, I don't know how you rank diversity,
but that's not very diverse.
You know what I will admit,
because we'll point out in chats,
like this is still better than Quentin
because Quentin literally played,
well, he took Rags's argument
and it's extrapolated something that is just-
Yeah, he just took a sentence.
At least we got a little bit more than eight
or a sentence fragment from Wolf.
Like, I can see how you could get here
with what Wolf said if you're of Eric Taksin's-
If you're not smart.
Yeah, if you just ignore the other 17 minutes-
Yeah, what I'm getting at is just that with Quentin,
he would just draw something that Rags wasn't even near.
While with you, it's clear that he's trying to skew
what you've said.
So, yeah, it's not quite the jelly man,
but it's still a straw man.
Womanator 2, nagging day.
Oh, that's already gonna happen.
That's Terminator 5, remember?
And art, the only reason this wouldn't be true
is if you were-
Check out this editing, folks.
Why is that a thing?
That looks like a crosshair of the center.
Is that from your gameplay?
Yes.
Good lord.
Yeah, because that's the BR crosshair.
Simply opposed to seeing minority characters in your movies,
which I know you're not.
And let's take season three.
Jesus, there it goes.
Yeah, the only reason,
it has to be because you don't wanna see these.
Oh, wait, he did-
Let me, let me clear it.
I'm sure I heard that he said he's sure
what doesn't take that position.
Both good and bad art.
The only reason this wouldn't be true
is if you were simply opposed to seeing minority characters
in your movies, which I know you're not.
And let's take season three, episode four of Black Mirror.
First drafts of San Junipero
had the main couple written as straight
until Charlie just kinda decided to make them lesbians.
It's as forced as diversity can get,
but San Junipero is great.
Stay with Legend of Korra.
It wasn't good because of that.
And I haven't seen it,
but yeah, that doesn't necessarily fly
in the face of what Wolf has said, unfortunately.
Yeah, like is Theodore Crane,
is she better because she's lesbian?
The other interesting thing as well is that,
it's a problem because I haven't seen
the example you just gave,
but Joss Whedon planned from the get-go in Buffy
to make one of the characters gay eventually,
because they're all straight.
And then he decided that he was gonna,
there was plans for it to be one of them,
but then plans changed.
And it's like, from a writing standpoint,
he wanted it rather than it being forced upon him.
So he was like, how do I do this?
And it happens over like a season of a person meeting,
getting to know each other,
falling in love, that sort of thing.
And the assumption I suppose you would have
is that they were always bisexual to begin with
or something like that.
Or, you know, people change.
I knew a girl who was straight and became gay after,
it took like half a year, the change happened over.
Like it does happen.
I don't know if that would be considered false diversity,
but it's written so well that you wouldn't know,
I suppose is kind of what we've already been over.
But you do know in this case.
Well, does it count if the author wants it that way?
How does that work?
Hello?
I mean, I...
Like I said, from the beginning,
he wanted to have a gay character.
He just wasn't sure how he was gonna implement it.
Instead, it doesn't seem like it would be too much.
It doesn't seem like it would be forced.
Yeah.
At least not in that case.
The reason why I don't consider it false
is because he didn't just go, the episode begins,
and they go, I'm gay, by the way.
And she's like, oh, okay.
Especially compared to the reboot of Buffy
where she's gonna be black.
It's just like, what, what, why, what?
But I guess you can't really have a story
of a character turning from white to black over time.
So that was the only way to do it.
But yeah.
Do you wanna carry on?
Do you guys wanna say anything else?
No?
Okay.
Your homophobic-
Mr. Wolf, this-
Wait, what was that?
Hold on, grab on, it's like five seconds.
What was that?
The homophobic thing?
You can get, but San Junipero is great.
And if you don't like it, you're homophobic.
Mr. Wolf, this entire video is just you complaining
that Hollywood movies are bad
and wistfully imagining a bright future where they are good,
which is fine, I guess.
That's how opinions work, but please be honest.
Don't you want Hollywood to make good movies?
Yeah, and I doubt Wolf believes
that this is the only thing facing Hollywood as an issue.
It's just one of many.
Yeah, I mean, like, don't you,
I was like, I would like-
I'm pretty sure in the video I outright said
this is not the only or even the biggest issue
with Hollywood.
And again, you had to leave that out.
Christ, look at this screenshot though.
What's happening?
Same.
Help me.
Next.
You can't sincerely believe that the simple act
of including marginalized characters
in a story on a-
Yeah, a star exploded in his video.
That gets bright, like I, like it's not even,
I don't even want to look at the video.
Hmm.
The simple act of including marginalized characters
in a story on a whim is such a massive act
that it necessarily-
No, no, it doesn't demand it.
But if it succeeds, it's despite it.
Yeah, and it's just a terrible principle to have
in the first place, it makes no fucking sense.
It's terrible principle to have.
You should hire people based on their merit,
not because of some characteristic of theirs
that they did not hone,
that they had no access and changing,
that they didn't have any say in.
Which I suppose is a policy,
and that means that we've just sat on one side of the aisle
with whatever this discussion is.
But if someone said I'm, you know,
I am absolutely A and then weird
because I hold that position,
I'd just be like, meh, whatever.
But I don't think he's gonna do that.
Well, give him time.
That the writing quality must suffer.
This is why I'm responding to this video in particular.
It's the perfect example of the phony centrist version
of the forced diversity argument.
Like, who do you think you're fooling?
No matter how valid your reasons
for hating the Ghostbusters reboot are,
you've still hampered it all
on the very inspiration to me.
Yeah, because Paul Feig said that had to be a thing.
Ghostbusters is inextricably tied to the negative aspect
that forced diversity demanded
that those characters be women.
Yeah, his focus wasn't on writing good characters.
I have these women, now we're gonna make jokes.
I've made my movie.
Also, it's this disingenuous thing that he says about,
oh, you see, you're just trying,
you're pretending to be centrist
because you can't be a centrist
and not like forced diversity, I guess.
He didn't even say he was.
Yeah. The weird thing.
Like, you're trying to fool us into thinking
you're that thing you never tried to be.
I suppose our response to you, Eric,
for this whole video would be,
who do you think you're fooling?
Yeah.
One pupper, to say that forced diversity made it bad
is conceding that somehow the idea
to feminize the cast led to it being a bad film.
When in action, it did.
I think that's a pretty fair thing to say,
to it led to that, yeah.
I mean, a bunch of women making queef jokes
just didn't really sit with the audience all that much,
you know?
So bad.
We watched it drunk, made a few friends,
and we still had trouble getting enjoyment.
Weird.
In actuality, it's just a bad film.
You can't make a dichotomy between hiring for diversity
and hiring for competence without implying
that hiring for competence will result in hiring.
Whoa.
I feel like my red nose is about to light on a fire.
No, I was like, that's kind of racist.
Yeah, let's listen to that fully again.
I just want to make sure I got that.
It's the bad film.
You can't make a dichotomy between hiring for diversity
and hiring for competence without implying
that hiring for competence will result in hiring
a bunch of fucking white dudes.
Whoa.
Ooh, that's kind of...
Ooh, that's a spot.
So just to repeat what we said earlier,
when we said if you have 10 people
and you choose the best actor,
you may not end up with the black one.
But if you choose the black one, you will.
But the best one may be the black one.
It's a gamble.
That's what we kept saying.
So if you're like, we have to have the black one
because everybody's white.
It's like, why don't you just choose the best actor?
So we never said what he's just implied.
Just putting it out there.
Bit of a weird one.
I mean, gosh.
I mean, is he implying that if we hire for merit,
only white people will get roles?
That's kind of...
Ooh, that's not very nice to say
about the abilities of people with color.
Like, seriously, there's so many ways you could respond to it.
I'm just like, that was a weird one, Eric.
That's strange.
Yeah, jump the shark there, buddy.
You can't make a dichotomy between focusing on a diverse cast
and focusing on writing a good story
without implying that including a diverse cast of characters
leads to bad writing.
Forcing it, not including it.
Yeah.
It's the whole fucking point of the word forced.
Forced, Eric.
Look at Aliens.
Aliens is very well written.
It has a diverse cast.
Yeah, well, I don't know if it's diverse by their standards.
It has one female,
one Hispanic character.
I'm trying to remember all of them.
There's a black guy.
There is a black guy.
There's two black guys, I think.
The black guy was the leader, too.
Apone.
He was the sergeant or whatever?
Yeah, I think he was...
I think he was above sergeant,
because sergeant was...
Hudson was a sergeant as well, right?
I don't really remember.
I only remember Hudson Dixon.
Yeah, I don't remember the ranks, exactly.
And God, what's her name?
Machine Gun Lady.
How can I forget her name?
I liked her.
There was also a black man in Alien.
Oh, yes.
It was a woman.
He was the second...
Well, yeah, he was the last to die.
Three women and a baby.
Oh, Hudson was a private?
Okay, I need to look at the ranks again.
Vasquez, that's what it was.
Oh, yeah, that's what I meant by Hispanic.
I don't remember there being more than one,
but they could have been.
I'd have to watch it again,
because it wasn't a fucking shoved in your face
to speak like the most important element of their characters.
Here are people,
and every person will have a gender and a race also,
but these are people first.
These are characters and people first.
They're fun characters, like them.
Yes, they are not representatives
of whatever arbitrary race and gender they were born as.
Oh, yeah, that would be three females then as well.
Not one, obviously.
There's a newt as well.
Does newt count as a diverse,
or does that not count as a kid?
I don't know.
I'd have to check the rule book from Eric.
Yeah, but she's still white.
But yeah, the point was never
that if you have a diverse cast,
you automatically have worse writing.
That's not how that works.
Yes.
The forced part, the part that's in his fucking title,
that was the important bit.
You know.
I still want that example, Eric,
of where forced diversity made something better
because of the forced diversity aspect.
There's leads to bad writing, you know,
as if making a character a different race,
gender, or sexuality is anything more
than a simple creative choice.
What?
Huh?
Hang on, I need to hear that again.
Including a diverse cast of characters
leads to bad writing, you know,
as if making a character a different race,
gender, or sexuality is anything more
than a simple creative choice.
If you made a new Black Panther and he was white and gay,
I'm pretty sure you'd get a lot of people
very, very, very fucking upset.
It depends on the fucking context.
You could have a character that's actually like
intrinsically important to whatever race they have
or whatever sexuality they have,
depending on what the story is.
And obviously we're mainly gonna be referencing
reboots and remakes at that point
when they change something that was established
or an adaption.
And it always depends on exactly what they did,
what they were at first and how they've changed it.
But if, yeah, let's say if Rey was a lesbian
in all of the newest Star Wars films
that changes nothing, he's right.
They could tell us she was all along in episode nine
and we'd just be like, okay.
Rags, you might find it funny.
Someone in the chat said that this video
has more God Ray.
76.
Probably does.
But Fallout 76 doesn't hurt my eyes as much as this video.
Being a character, a different race, gender, or sexuality
is anything more than a simple creative choice.
Part three, what I want.
So just in case you're new here, I'm like extremely gay.
I know I act pretty expertly closeted
on this YouTube channel, but if you follow me on Twitter,
you'll know it's a pretty big part of my brand.
Naturally, I'm a pretty big fan of gay representation,
but what I actually mean by that is a bit more complex.
Now, of course, I really like seeing queer people
in my movies.
It's actually an objective fact that your favorite movie
would have been better if the main character was gay.
Sorry, I don't make the rules.
But you know what I also want?
I think it was supposed to be funny.
I guess.
I think a lot of gay characters are insufferable.
For me, it always depends on execution.
Them being gay, them being there is not enough for me.
Same for straight.
Yeah, I mean, I'm bisexual and I don't give a shit
what the sexuality of the character is.
We need Jared here for the, oh God, he's a queer.
It's like 95% of the time, it's not even an aspect
of a character that even matters.
Like, I just don't care.
I don't care what you're attracted to.
It's just so, I don't care.
It doesn't have anything to do with your character.
Yeah, and again, it goes for everything.
Having them there just doesn't do anything for me.
It's about who they are.
Yeah, I mean, if I never saw another gay character
in films or media, it wouldn't bother me.
I don't care.
Would you say Annihilation is forced to first deal
because they were meant to be women?
This may not be true.
Is it Unforced?
I would need to know more about
the production of Annihilation.
But if I remember in the storyline,
it's very fucking confusing
as to why they're sending these people.
Me and Wolf had a lot of,
as a video Me and Wolf may make one year, you know?
Yeah, I don't really, I mean,
there's a ton of crazy shit in that movie.
I don't think the women were the biggest issue.
Although I-
And it never shoves it in your face.
And instead of like, we're women,
women have a girl power.
They attempt to make characters out of them
instead of just being like they're women.
There's no, I don't remember that.
I might be wrong on this.
I haven't actually read the book,
but I thought I heard that all the characters were men.
I'm not certain that could be wrong.
Like I said, I never read it.
So if that's the case,
then I would count that as forced diversity.
If not, and they are, and they were women in the book,
then I mean, I don't really get it.
I don't think it made the film any better or worse.
It's just, they were-
Yeah, the film was already fundamentally broken
without the women.
I want gay representation in trash movies,
trash books and trash games.
More importantly, I want gay characters
written into trash movies, games and books
without the poor quality of these works being blamed
on the decision to include gay characters.
I understand that, but that's-
Good books, good movies, and good-
Yeah, that's not what Wolf said though, so.
Like he's implying that you're saying
that you take a bad piece of content
and you spot the gay character,
the female character, and the black character,
and then you say it's because they were forced in.
That's what he's saying you're saying essentially,
which is not the case.
Not to mention that I think he's advocating
for it to just be normal, that gay people,
black people, females, they just pop up everywhere anyway.
And for me, I'm like, isn't that what we have?
Yeah, I didn't think being gay was like weird or-
Unless you take a fucking tally
and then say if the numbers aren't exactly equal,
then it's not right.
It's just like, mm.
I mean, it's not normal in a statistical sense to be gay.
I mean, it's a minority, but I don't think like we have,
I don't think people are like,
oh, the character was gay.
That means it's terrible.
And I just don't, I mean,
I'm sure maybe some people think that that's silly, but-
If you asked me what the potential origin
for Rey's lack of character would be,
I wouldn't hesitate to say that she was possibly,
they didn't really focus heavily
on making a character for her,
because they were more concerned with her being female.
They're more concerned with her hiring a female
and bringing her in.
That's certainly something you'll get from JJ Abrams.
It's just, should have started from the ground up
with character instead of what gender they are.
Especially with Star Wars, where it literally just,
it's not supposed to come into play really.
It's supposed to be about the people.
But, you know, like as Rags pointed out,
it's like if you did like a suffragette story
or a slavery related story,
some characters will have to be a certain portion
of those things, which is why I found it interesting
that he was like-
The goal is historical accuracy, that's the goal.
Yeah, and it's funny that he was like, it wouldn't matter.
And it's like, if you made a slavery movie,
talking about how bad slavery is,
and every character was white, including the slaves.
Could you imagine the fucking reaction from our culture?
People would be like,
very upset would be the word I'd probably go with.
Get back in the fields, you wigger.
And then you can be like, why are they upset?
And it's like, well, you've misrepresented what happened.
And you could write the characters to be really,
really in depth and sympathetic.
But the race is an important part of that history.
I'm sure many people would argue for accuracy.
It's an interesting subject,
but it's just unfortunate that he's put this
like pinpoint narrow view and said that this is how it works
and this is what Wolf's saying, and I've counted it.
And it's like, not really, mate.
He's not even addressing Wolf and his points are bad.
It almost feels like he wanted to make this video
and he's just used Wolf as a jumping off point,
even though he's just not even really listened
to Wolf at all.
Yeah, it's like he didn't watch Wolf's video.
Little bit.
Also, yeah, I have to cover my own ass with this shit.
I'm not saying there's no such thing as a white slave.
I'm not saying that never happened, guys, don't worry.
I don't want every new gay movie to be required
to be excellent lest it make a poor case
for making gay movies in the first place.
And that's why I need to disagree
with pretty much the-
Also, that's a thing that people say.
That's a thing that SJWs say.
You can't negatively portray gay people.
You can't negatively portray black people.
Or women, you can't negatively portray minorities
of any kind because it feeds into a stereotype
or because it makes people think
that that's how the real world works.
Like you might not believe it personally,
but there's a reason why so many people
are against that notion because there are a lot of people,
quite frankly, on your side of things who do believe that
and they write articles about it
and they hire people based on that idea
and they change the way that characters behave
based on that idea.
Or they invent characters based on that idea.
The entire premise of this video, Mr. Wolf.
No matter how unintentional it might be,
the main takeaway is that a diverse cast
is something to be earned,
that diversity needs to justify itself
or else it's not worth it.
This is a blatant double standard.
Just think about it.
Did we give up on stories with male leads
after the room came out?
That's like-
What the fuck?
How did you get that from a wolf?
What?
My God, okay.
Well, you know, I bought a PS4
because I thought Horizon Zero did
and that's a female lead.
Yeah, well, he said that you didn't stop watching movies
with men in them because when you watch the room,
Eric, I don't know where you're coming from
with that one, mate.
That's confusing.
You might want to clarify that.
Maybe make the video slightly longer,
cover more of Wolf's actual points, I don't know.
Obviously absurd.
Maybe the other 17 minutes worth of them.
Stories with male leads after the room came out,
like this is obviously absurd.
No one would say the room failed
because a man lead in it, but-
Yes, but you could have-
And I also never said that we should stop making movies
with females in it just because there's bad fit.
That's not the point I was making.
And Wolf never said, there was never a point
where his comments did not apply to males.
It's just so few examples of males
being forced into something.
But you can definitely have that.
It's theoretically possible.
Show me a director who said he's tired of,
I don't know, the people having a full cast.
I use the example with the sorority thing.
If a woman was forced to put a man into a storyline
that he didn't fit, for whatever reason,
like that could easily lead to negative elements
in the film.
That would be forced diversity too.
It's not specific to women.
Yeah, it's like we have to,
we're gonna make another Tomb Raider movie,
but it has to be a man playing it.
Larry Croft.
Larry Croft.
Lawrence Croft.
But here we are.
A cartoon wolf is telling us that Ghostbusters 2016 failed.
You're a painting.
I don't even think I used Ghostbusters that much.
I don't remember.
Not to mention why it failed.
There's a lot of reasons,
but there's no denying that the fact that they shoved,
they were just like, it has to be women, go.
Like that's of course gonna have an effect.
Under that impression,
they clearly played up the women, women.
Yeah, and they said in interviews
that people are hating on it
because a lot of people hate women.
And it's like, what?
Well, they did the same.
Jonathan McIntosh has a channel that's focused on this.
This is propagating this idea that people like Wolf
or whoever else he's aiming at.
Eight things, literally because Asian people are casted
or women are casted, it's like, what the fuck?
Yeah, I don't remember specifically
if I mentioned Ghostbusters in my video on it.
Do you remember Mauler?
Because I know we watched it together.
I just don't remember if I actually used that as an example.
I know I used a lot of examples that he didn't address,
but I don't remember if I was talking about Ghostbusters.
The problem is if you did, we would have no idea
because he didn't fucking play it.
Well, we'd have to watch your video.
I mean, obviously you should know it being it's your video,
but I'm more concerned about the audience here
having no fucking clue.
I don't think you ever said Ghostbusters is bad
because women, like it's certainly one of the elements,
but like I would certainly target how bad the humor is.
Like that's a huge deal.
The horrible comedy, the disgusting visual effects,
the bad writing, terrible story.
Here, let's think of it this way.
Eric, if you wanted to really get your point across,
you would have taken that comment
and you would have told us why it's wrong.
Not just mockingly read something
that sounds really reasonable.
I don't think he's interested in convincing us.
It's more to, like, sorry, Eric,
but it feels like you're kind of pandering to your audience
as opposed to sort of trying to bridge a gap here.
Yeah, well, I think it's almost certainly the case
because that comment illustrates
that it's almost like there's a,
he's implying that it's terrible,
but he doesn't explain why.
And if he was trying to change people's minds,
he would explain why.
I'm sure he, well,
because he showed all those other people, he showed Wolf,
and he's, I suppose he's arguing
that everyone has just been countered
by the things he's said,
like, it's so nonspecific and I don't,
a lot of the stuff he's countering Wolf with
doesn't counter what Wolf said.
That's the problem.
It's just like, Eric, either you're incompetent
or you have no interest in actually having a conversation.
You can pick either one.
Because the inspiration to Star Women
was so drastic and poisonous
that it infected the rest of the movie and made it bad.
Honestly, it just goes to show
how much the status quo can fuck with your head.
The status quo? The venom.
That's the status quo now.
The status quo, is that movies are,
I don't even know what exactly is the status quo.
Yeah.
I'm not even sure what context he leaves that in.
You know, having a jog is the status quo.
Is that bad?
Should we change the status quo?
We should all be unemployed.
I guess he's saying this element of the status quo,
but again.
Maybe.
I wish you, which part?
Clogging the veins of your mind,
making you say shit like this.
We truly do live in a society.
Anyways, I want a gay remake of La Pianiste.
Oh, geez.
So that's it.
That's my argument.
The entire premise of this video is completely bunk,
but he's not done.
Remember how I mentioned that?
This is his best editing yet.
Yeah.
That Mr. Wolf kind of dresses his arguments up
in a nice little centrist presentation.
Not at all.
How many times do I, do I really need to use like,
I mean, I don't know how many times I have to
literally say I voted for Bernie Sanders
and I own a book written by him.
It's sitting right behind me
before people realize I'm not a centrist.
Doesn't matter.
Okay.
And I'm just going to play this again.
A centrist can vote for Bernie Sanders.
Well, yeah, sure.
But he has nothing.
Wolf is saying that Wolf is claiming
he voted for Bernie Sanders because he chooses label.
And then Eric is like, no, you're this label.
Yeah.
This is the part where he's like,
oh, he's not actually centrist.
I got to expose him.
So here's what I really am.
As if it has anything to do with the argument, but okay.
He's not done.
Remember how I mentioned that Mr. Wolf kind of dresses
his arguments up in a nice little centrist.
What does this have to do with anything anyway?
Was it just a snipe?
Was he just like, meh?
It was like, he claimed, I mean, Eric made the claim,
but I don't see, I don't,
I don't think it exists in reality.
Temptation?
Well, he kind of drops that halfway through.
I'm sure you're familiar with Emma Stone,
not because you've ever heard of her before,
but because this was probably the first time
you've ever heard of her or the first time
you were reminded of her existence.
Oh, Jesus Christ, Eric,
you're editing makes me want to fucking kill myself.
I had to ask, was that you?
That's not Wolf.
Let's say, Jesus Christ.
As if Emma Stone is the only character in Birdman.
As if, Jesus, fucking.
If you are thinking, if you are, if you make videos,
if you are thinking about making videos, that noise,
never, ever, ever use that noise ever.
Balance the God Dab sound.
If you do kill yourself.
Balance the God Dab sound, please people.
Never do that shit.
Nothing makes me stop watching a video
or stop watching a YouTuber faster than them
doing shit like that, where I'm listening to a video
and I have this obnoxious, loud,
creepy-ass bullshit noise that all of a sudden
blares into my ears.
Someone said you guys are getting angry
at edits made to be comedic.
It's like, yeah, it's true.
Like, how do you not?
As everyone's describing, it's fucking ear rape.
Like, what the hell is he doing?
Yes, don't fucking make ear rape noises
in the middle of video.
Don't do it.
I'm just glad my headset wasn't turned all the way up.
Like, Christ.
Jesus Christ.
But yeah, moving on.
Don't do it.
It's not funny, it's not clever, it's not edgy.
It's just noise.
You're just pumping noise into people's ears.
Like, quit that.
The fact that she decided to call out Hollywood
for not allowing women to do more shit as stupid as fuck.
Maybe, and bear with me here,
I know this is a lot to take in,
but maybe, rather than whining about it,
they should just, well, fucking do it.
It's not, it's not at all.
So much to unpack there.
Holy shit.
First of all, this does not make Wolf right.
Not a centrist, yeah.
Well, yeah, this is very confusing.
If your claim is that he's a centrist,
this does not make him not a centrist.
So this doesn't even debunk a point that doesn't exist
except for in your head.
And then, Wolf did not set up that clip
with I know how to solve sexism, and then said that.
He's more highlighting something
that I pretty much agree with,
which is when people are like,
women can't do X in Hollywood,
it strikes me as odd.
I'm always like, what are you looking for?
A producer to find a woman and give her money
to make a movie?
Or are they going to find someone
who's got a track record of making good things
and make a movie?
And if that's the case, and you're like,
yes, but there's more men to start with
that have been doing it, that's not fair.
I just be like, as Wolf said,
I know how this sounds, right?
But you're gonna go and do it.
So like, there's a lot of directors out there
who started out with nothing,
and they made shit on a low budget.
Like it's-
And presidents even.
Yeah, to be like, we have to solve it for them.
It's like, I'd rather encourage women to get going,
to go, fuck this, I'm gonna work my ass off,
I'm gonna make a great film,
I'm gonna write a great film.
Instead, why do you need someone else
to force it for you?
How do you think men did it, if that's the issue?
Yeah, do you think, if you're trying to fix a problem,
though, if somebody, let's say somebody comes up to me
and they say, Rags, I am poor, what should I do?
I would say, well, you should get a job, you're unemployed.
That doesn't mean that I am saying or claiming
that I have solved the concept of poverty into perpetuity.
That is saying that if you get a job,
that will help you with your situation.
And obviously, everybody,
there's context for every single scenario,
but Emma Stone, I'm not 100% sure
of the context of that entirely.
What was it, Wolf, was she saying?
She said something, it was like the Oscar acceptance speech
or one of the speeches before they actually announced
the Oscar winners, she was saying something
to the effect of, there's too many men in Hollywood
and women don't get to do anything.
And it's like, I can name you several female directors,
many female actors, it's like, if you want to do something,
don't expect it on a silver platter.
And like, you go out and do it.
The producer gets to buy whatever they want,
they get to fund whatever they want,
to say they have to fund females
because there's not enough of them.
What the hell are you advocating for?
How fucking condescending is that
if you're a woman listening to that?
Exactly.
No, like, you can't do it on your own, you need help.
Like, what's stopping them?
Yeah, I just, and you know, if you have an example
for just, you show some woman is making a film
and then this guy comes in and breaks everything
and he says, I fucking hate women
and I don't want you to have a chance.
I'd be like, well, that guy is sexist.
It doesn't, you know, like the idea that it's like,
sexism is, I don't know, culture-wide
and women are oppressed to be able to make movies.
I'd be like, give me examples
because I'm a little bit confused on how that works.
And again, I didn't-
Soft bigotry of low expectations.
And again, I wasn't even saying that that solves sexism.
I wasn't even talking about sexism in that context.
But it was totally funny.
Oh yeah, gotta go check.
I mean, really, with how incredibly far left Hollywood is,
incredibly far left Hollywood, far left Hollywood,
the simple truth is that SJWs do not have to kill him.
So does anybody disagree that Hollywood-
How could you possibly disagree with that?
Of the 1700 or so people watching,
is there anybody of the 1700
who disagrees that Hollywood is not far left?
Type H, if you think that Hollywood is far left.
I mean, I can't-
Oh, Hollywood, okay.
Yeah, I just, there's no way.
Like people, leftists brag about that.
They brag about how Hollywood is super accepting
and they brag about how Hollywood is super diverse
and all this stuff.
And I, like honestly, if you don't think
that Hollywood isn't super left,
I would be curious to hear if you exist.
I reckon might be the only one.
Pointing that out does not make you right
or centrist or anything really.
It doesn't make sense that you would be able to draw.
It's weird.
I mean, Karl Marx is far left,
but saying that doesn't make you far right.
Yeah, I don't get it, Eric.
Weird.
I don't get it either, Eric.
This is a retarded point
and you should be ashamed of yourself.
Probably far left Hollywood, far left Hollywood.
The simple truth is that SJWs do not-
Let's think, but there's a lot,
there are unironic communists in Hollywood.
What is this?
Yeah, but he's making a joke, so leave him alone.
Simple truth is that SJWs do not have talent.
Hey, Wolfie.
I sure am.
Yeah, we are actually.
Wait, sorry, I gotta play it for the stream.
Somehow you guys are ahead of me.
Even though it's supposed to be succinct.
Enjoy this bit, chat.
We're good.
Hey, Wolfie, are you having fun
in your fucking five-hour takedown stream?
We don't need you, we've got other people who do.
So Eric knows that we were gonna respond to him,
but he said two hours at the near three-hour mark
and he just said five hours at the not even four-hour mark.
Sorry, Eric.
Oh, we beat you.
You fucked it up again.
I think Eric thinks that he's good enough
to demand that kind of time from us.
Well, I mean, yeah, an extra hour for you, Eric.
I mean, come on.
That's pushing it.
That's pushing it.
And he said he's never gonna watch it, guys, so.
Okay, that's fine.
That's odd to him.
His welcome is still-
Of course, he hides his likes and dislikes.
Of course he's not gonna watch this.
Yeah, he's still welcome to come on, of course.
I just know where he's going to,
but it's like he can.
But yeah, and that's it, so.
We did it.
So Wolf is a far-right neo-Nazi because reasons?
I mean, I can-
Because Hollywood is far left.
God.
I can't even really make a summary for that video.
It's no, there's a very fucking wibbly-wobbly structure,
like considering it's a response to the Dishonored Wolf
and it has 5% of Wolf's videos put in near the beginning
and then a slight bit at the end
and then a bunch of other people he's sort of responding to
and then this whole commentary on
whether false diversity exists as a defined thing,
how it affects stuff,
and you just sit there wondering like,
wouldn't this just have been,
you don't need a response to Dishonored Wolf part
and you could have taken Wolf out
and just had your view on false diversity
because you barely even consider what Wolf's saying.
You just treat this as like a,
aha, I've counted you.
It's like, have you?
Yeah, this is, I mean, this is,
even calling this a response to the Dishonored Wolf
is kind of like, like technically some of it was,
but mostly you were just making shit up about him
that he didn't claim.
In some definition it was, in some way,
most of it wasn't.
It's weird because he even has in the title as a,
even in the title it starts off with
what is false diversity.
That's not the title of my video,
the problem with false diversity.
Yeah.
But at no point in this video does he explain
what false diversity is, like the title would suggest.
Yeah, define your terms, man.
It's basic shit.
It's like you.
Yeah, I'm gonna finish up on some stupid chats
and then we will be able to do our outro
in which there will be a,
well, a surprise of sorts.
I just realized, okay,
I was expecting us to get through Eric Taxer
in like two hours, maybe three,
and we've managed to go to daily four.
It's like, fuck me.
So, hey guys, I was wondering if any of you have read
any of the Horace Heresy series
and if so, what are your thoughts on what you've read?
Love to see you, Wolf.
Do a review on a few of them.
No idea what that is.
I've not read them.
Never heard of it.
No, it's a Warhammer 40K.
Oh.
I have not read the books.
I'm afraid I've not heard of them.
In Egypt, we love Braveheart and it's 100% white movie.
Also, I love The Godfather and it's a 99% white movie
and I'm black and I love it, but anyway, guys.
No, they're from Italy.
See, that's a whole other conversation,
the idea of should, you know,
can black children be inspired by white characters?
I know.
When I was a kid, whenever Static Shock was on TV,
I watched the shit out of it.
I mean, Ripley was one of my childhood heroes,
so I was like, uh-oh.
I'm glad I'm not the only one that remembers Static Shock
because I genuinely liked that show.
Yeah, Static Shock was good.
I don't think I ever watched the end of it.
Didn't they get canceled after like two seasons or something?
I don't know.
The show wasn't bad.
Then again, I was a kid, so I don't know if maybe-
Yeah, I mean, great credit.
Yeah, sure.
I could do the same thing.
I just have fond memories of it.
The old gods pissed over the desert and made mescaline
a quote for the return of Wolf.
I don't, what does that mean?
All my favorite people on YouTube, hi, Wolf.
That's neat.
Hey, Wolf is back.
How's everyone doing?
Doing good.
I'm swell.
Great.
I wish my GF put in my place like Ray did to Kylo and TFA
and just tell me you'll never be as strong as Darth Vader.
Very powerful scene, couldn't sleep, cry face.
I reckon you're being sarcastic.
The Room is a white movie and it's written badly.
I mean, I just, the comparisons he brought up
were very, very odd.
This is the thing, this would all be sorted
if he actually did come on this podcast,
but it's just never gonna happen, so why don't you-
It would have been sorted if he was even remotely honest
with his depiction of my video.
Or if he offered one example of Force diversity being good.
Got Lady of the Rings, Rise of the Planet of the Apes
with women, just put with women on the end of movies.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes with women.
Yeah, like I said, Rise of the Planet of the-
Well, I was gonna say, it's so clunky.
You just start putting with women
on the end of known titles.
Did you guys like that movie Seabiscuit with women?
That was a good one.
That was a good one, I really like that one.
Jaws with women.
Snoke is Force diversity.
If he were a deformed female,
he would have been a good character.
True.
No, they tried to make a quiet place with women,
but they just didn't think it would be realistic.
Personally, my favorite was
the woman in the striped pajamas.
With women.
Force diversity ruined modern comics.
Yeah, I see that's another whole thing.
What's damaged the Marvel comic industry of like-
Oh yeah, they don't sell shit anymore.
Yeah, their comics are like fucking tanking.
Also, do you guys catch that new movie,
Thelma and Louise and Women?
F.E. Bad, F.E. Bad, Star Wars had zero-
Iron Man, F.E. is Iron.
Oh.
Yeah, in Latin, Ferrum, fire.
That's a good one.
It's a periodic table, yes.
Star Wars had zero albino Africans,
Star Wars is racist.
It's true, it's true.
Fun fact-
Just because they're albino doesn't mean they're not black.
I don't know enough about that.
I think he was joking around.
I don't even know how I'd respond to that either.
They're black on the inside.
Fun fact, in the deleted scene from Alien,
the guy attacked in the vent is revealed
to still be alive and the stromo explodes,
so the black guy is second to last if we include it.
Yeah, yeah, Wolf, idiot.
Yeah, stupid.
Yeah, I don't know about Alien anymore.
Fallout 76, Game of the Year edition review,
two out of 10, not as bad as
what is forced diversity
or response to Dishonored Wolf rags.
That says a lot because Fallout 76 is pretty bad.
I'm late, but welcome back, Wolf.
We missed you a lot.
There's just so many nice people today, if you was.
Hooray.
The new Bond movie won't have Craig.
Sad, though, I will vote either Will Smith
or Christian Bale,
because they're good actors.
Thoughts on this, guys?
Isn't it Idris Elber who they were going with?
Yeah, which is weird.
Yeah, it's not even the first time
that Idris Elber is going to be playing a white.
They had the same thing with the Dark Tower.
It's really irritating.
Granted, he was like probably, in all honesty,
he was probably the least offensive thing
in the Dark Tower movie.
But, you know, it's it's weird.
We've got a super chat that says, OK, I'll say I'm lost.
What's going on here?
What's this guy going on about?
Um, if you if you turn off the audio and just stare at the video,
it'll probably make more sense.
Hey, Wolf's back.
Hope you're OK, my dude.
Yes, there's a lot of a lot of nice stuff.
Like I said, it's really good.
We are no dumber for having heard him.
May God have mercy on his soul.
I'm sure Eric will be fine.
God doesn't like the queers.
Oh, God, he a queer.
That's what the story say, so I don't.
So glad to back Wolf for more on communist Hollywood.
A video by Razor Fist gives compelling evidence
that they've always been read.
Yeah, Razor Fist made a really good video about Hollywood and communism.
People are not going to like me if they like Razor Fist soon.
I think the problem with writers that forced diversity
is that they put politics ahead of the story,
hurting the overall experience.
The American comic book industry is a primary victim of it.
Yep. Welcome back, Wolf.
I love you. I also love Mullen Rags, but I like Walled more.
Fight me, IRL after school, 3 30 p.m.
I like all of you.
This sounds like cool.
If you like Wolf the most, you're probably a weenie.
So I could take you.
Mate, he likes Walled more than me, you and Wolf.
Walled guy, who's fucking Walled?
Get him on this podcast.
Yeah, we got the podcast.
Where's Waldo?
Wolf's back. All is right with the world.
What are your thoughts on Dirty Harry movies, guys?
It wasn't as good as the sequel, Dirty Harry with Women, but
it just sounds like a sex thing.
You know, I think someone actually put down dirty women in the chat earlier.
Tying this meme to the fucking majorly one about you can see women.
Yep, this is all starting to come full circle.
Yeah, as for Dirty Harry movies, I like them,
but I've not really got much passion on the subject.
I haven't seen them since I was younger.
Yeah, Clint Eastwood's a good actor.
Dirty Harry wasn't as good as his best to film,
which I think was the good, the bad, the ugly and women.
This is going to evolve, isn't it?
This is so much you could do with it.
Robert Doughty Jr.
But a woman can eFap stand for existential fapping, too?
Yes. Yes. Yeah.
We're very diverse here.
Existential fapping is allowed.
Deliverance with women.
Yeah, this is like I said, never going to end.
But yes, that is that is I've read this, the super chat.
So I suppose what I should say now is
well, closing up stuff.
So first of all, I don't know if anybody doesn't know,
but I'm releasing part one of the critique of the Force Awakens on Christmas Day.
As I don't even know if that's wise or not in terms of like how your videos will do.
But fuck it, I just think it matches like Christmas.
Maybe Christmas Eve as a little stocking stuffer.
Oh, yeah, could could do it that way.
I'll figure it out. I'm not sure exactly.
But yeah, it'll definitely come out every one of those days.
I don't know if it do either.
I figure it makes sense for people to want to know,
but both of you can talk about what's next for what's happening with both of you.
I'm just kind of working away.
I got to I got to kind of projects going up around.
I'm still working on them.
Did a lot of work on the Jell-O one yesterday night.
And I woke up right before this, so I haven't had the chance to work on it yet.
But I've also got a lot of stuff collected
for a Fallout 76 review.
So that will be fun.
And Wolf.
Well, got a couple of things to say.
So I don't have anything coming out any time soon,
because right now I'm just focusing on finishing my last semester of college.
Then going to be pretty much hardcore looking into trade schools.
This college, you don't learn anything there, aside from shit you already know.
And yeah, I have some ideas for some videos.
Like I mentioned, if you're a Razor Fist fan, you might not like the video.
I have planned for him because he he made a video.
He was a while ago.
I think it's almost two years now, maybe more than that.
Basically saying that the Witcher is blatant plagiarism of Elric.
Well, I've actually decided to read the Elric books,
and it's like the furthest thing from plagiarism as you can get.
There's a couple of things you can like point to as being just totally worthless.
OK, it's like what's the word?
It's I keep thinking cosmetic.
It's not cosmetic.
Aesthetic.
And not aesthetic.
God, I can't think of a word.
Prosthetic.
No, there's no there's no robots.
Amnesiatic.
We'll figure out the word of Elricianatic.
Women. Yeah, with women.
With women.
Well, anyway, I actually went out of my way to read the books.
Well, I already read the Witcher books on my own because I was like, I just like it.
But yeah, he's pretty wrong on that.
So it's just what a centrist would say.
Definitely.
But anyway, it's not like I've worked on any scripts or anything.
I've pretty much just got like ideas written down of like,
I might do this eventually one day.
But yeah, it's more so.
Obviously, I've been gone for two months.
I don't think I really need to get into the reason on this stream
because it's way too long to explain.
But yeah, obviously,
Wolf came out as a centrist to his parents.
So we needed some alone time.
Yeah, some horrible.
Very, very horrible.
But yeah, it's just a couple more of these have flowed in.
I'll just get them out of the way.
So someone said Furiosa is an example of a good,
a great character from Mad Max Fury Road.
I don't think any of the characters were very good in that movie.
I think she probably had the most going on in that film.
She. Character wise.
Yeah, I wouldn't say she's like a great character, but they weren't like women,
women, women, women.
I need to see it again, honestly, because I saw it.
I loved it. And then I watched the video of it and I was like,
this has made me rethink my position on this film.
I would never deny the action is fucking fantastic in that film, though.
Yeah, I like the cinematography.
I didn't really care much about it.
It was rhino milk with women.
War Hammer, the war hammer, the women times.
Woo, molar episode for Christmas about time you
again as well, it's nearly three hours, the video.
So it's not like I'm putting out a half hour thing.
It's like finally a big chunky thing to actually watch from my channels.
It's been like two months since I put anything out.
And I do feel awful about it, but it's coming.
I swear I'm hurt.
My spelling was made for off.
Check your privilege there.
Check your privilege, you animals.
And more, of course.
And finally, water is not wet. Sure. Beautiful.
So before we we go out,
as we did mention, Joseph Anderson did release a hilarious video.
And the thing is, Wolf was coming back.
So we couldn't do that.
We had to do the air attacks and thing.
So we decided that we may do two episodes in one night.
If you guys are not going to sleep, people.
Oh, shitballs.
I was just asleep before I came.
So we're going to go offline.
We're going to go offline 10 minutes from now.
We're going to boot up a FAP number 16.
And who knows how long that'll last?
So hopefully you guys can survive such a crazy thing.
Yeah, chat seems relatively happy with this.
Before we go, just real quick, thanks for all the nice comments.
Rags has sent me a ton of the ones that he's seen.
Seen a lot of the chats and comments of the past EFAP since I left.
Yeah, I mean, obviously, there's going to be people that are shitty
and are going to continue to be shitty.
But yeah, I just want to say thanks.
It really made me feel better.
Yeah, man, it's good to have you back.
We've got the powerful core of EFAP.
You know, EFAP isn't the same without you.
You've got the Axis of Evil once again, reformed.
Prepare for us to make a whole bunch of enemies.
The Illuminati triangle is finally coming.
But a whole lot of framerate, too.
So, yeah, for the for the people on the Moolah channel,
there'll be like a four hour EFAP.
Actually, that's a long one.
So they should be happy again, a whole bunch.
So well, they're getting two EFAPs in one night.
Exactly. So we will be back.
We're going to go offline for 10, 15 minutes to just, you know,
pretend that we actually have lives briefly.
Stretch our legs and.
But next up will be Joseph Anderson versus subjectivity, I suppose,
which who knows how long that'll last.
So thank you all for the generous donations, the kind words to to Wolf and,
of course, the podcast itself.
We always have lots of fun here.
And thank you, Eric, for trying whatever that was.
Good luck in the future, my friend.
And yes, Kyle Quinton, Kyle Quinton, indeed.
Thank you all and goodbye season.
