just don't know what to do.
Yeah, you think you.
You know, the opening of the fabs, the one is pandas are too dumb to have sex.
It's true, though.
They are.
It's, it's an important thing that we, we get to, they can use slides.
Yeah.
Two out of three of pandas will stop at the bottom and try to get back up, but
they made it down that far.
I was going to say, is it really that talented to just slip down a slide?
I don't think, you know, it's not.
So they had to get up to the top of the slide.
This wouldn't slide.
So they're going to get splinters eventually.
Like, how can you think it would be able to climb this with these, but not quite.
Oh, that's embarrassing.
I can just compare it to like apex predators.
Yeah.
And it's like, it's not fair.
Like, how is no animal eating all of these creatures yet?
Not as much as I wouldn't want that to happen because they're hilarious.
You know, why does it seem like something should have
evolved to eat them?
I always, because they're protected by China.
Yeah.
They're so crazy protected.
China.
Well, we nearly ran out of them, right?
It came really close.
You know, in the, in the millions of years of panda history before that, how,
how did these creatures survive?
Uh, there was loads of them.
That's probably why.
I can't believe they're like in the bear family, right?
Yeah.
Handers.
Actually, no.
Um, are you sure?
They used to say that they're actually related to raccoons at one point.
Yeah.
I thought they were raccoons, but I guess they're bears too.
They're like bears and raccoons.
They're like hyenas.
Our raccoons are kind of bad.
If I'm, I don't, I mean, have you ever seen a red panda?
Have you ever seen a red panda before?
They look like a giant red raccoon.
That's true.
They are now red pandas are in the raccoon.
It's trying to kill itself.
I just, it's just funny because you're like a grizzly bear compared to a
pandas sort of thing.
It's like, oh, like genetics wise, you guys didn't do too well.
They don't even seem to walk properly.
Are these all like young pandas or something?
Yeah.
These are, you can tell by the way, they're much smaller than other pandas.
I don't know.
Big pandas could be a whole different species.
Jay, you, you speak just, hey, hey, fuck you.
They're probably still only alive because they're cute, right?
This will be the whole, this will be the whole eFap.
This is a panda review.
Okay.
It's important lady.
Where's your blue shoes?
Well, I mean, there's a lot of animals that are alive that suck, right?
So the panda happened to be favored over the last 5,000 years by the Chinese.
They probably have, maybe they were less docile, but they just got lazy because
they just gave them bamboo and hand rubs.
I think the, I think the, the Chinaman is keeping the panda alive as a species.
Maybe the only show is Chinaman's name was actually keeping, keeping pandas.
What, what if, what if the violent, aggressive, strong pandas are just
something we haven't seen yet?
They come in the wild mauling their actual Bigfoot, no survivors.
And they're amazing at camo.
Like they have advanced technology.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They live in Oreo factories.
So you can't see them.
And the whole purpose behind this is that they're trying to trick us
into thinking they're defenseless.
Yeah.
Them and the dolphins.
And then you get up close and they're like, just kidding.
I really am retarded though.
The best camouflage is telling people you're retarded.
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
Oh yeah.
Enough about pandas.
Welcome to the Efab 31.
As you can see, Ben, we have amazing intros where it makes no sense at all.
And we don't even have like any kind of connection to the previous one.
We just run along.
Um, I think it's much more impressive than having some kind of, you know, way to,
to actually connect all of the episodes in a consistent way.
Panda.
I think also, I think the guests don't, the guests would never think that this
was the actual intro, so they'll just open up and say crazy stuff like I was doing.
I don't know how much of that I made it to air, but I'm like, I thought
this was just fooling around now.
I feel like I have to go back and check it.
I didn't say the, anyway.
While talking about pandas.
Like, yeah, that pops up, but yes, our guests today are Ben and Billy
from the drunken peasants podcast.
Uh, how are you both doing today?
Doing wonderful.
Doing good.
We're a, it's a nice little crossover, which we'll hopefully do like a part
two of, uh, on the other end someday.
Um, it's, it's been a while because you guys have been on the potential
guest list for a long time.
It's just that our guest list is, is annoying.
Cause we do this show like once per week.
You don't have a guest list though.
Yes.
It's real.
You have a guest list.
If I keep saying that people will believe it, right?
Yeah.
Uh, we, we, but yeah, it's, it's great to get this, this whole join up.
Wolf wanted to be here.
Unfortunately he's, he's very busy with, with, with a family matter that hopefully
we'll, we'll be able to draw him back here before the show ends, but, uh, in
his place we have, uh, and sorry, sorry guys, but we have Jay, uh, picking
up the slack, if you will.
How are you doing?
I'm the, I'm not a guest.
I'm the boss of VFEP before we established this previously.
I don't know.
Sometimes the law contradicts maybe.
And so if we're just waiting for someone to say you're also the janitor of
VFEP and then that becomes
I mean, it's like, uh, have you seen undercover boss?
I have.
It's like, it's like that, but in reverse, I'm actually the janitor, but
I'm posing as if I'm in charge.
You reveal it and you're like, I'm disappointed now you've treated the guests.
We're like, okay.
Nothing changes.
But that went well.
Um, this video is sponsored by Tencent, which is why we opened up with panda
videos and compliment the complimenting the Chinaman on their conservation efforts.
That's actually just reminding me.
Have we talked about the fact that borderlands three is now exclusive to Epic?
I don't think that's happened between Efaps, right?
That's not a good thing for anybody who's confused about that.
Cause this seems apparently Joseph Anderson defended Epic store, by the way.
That is Joseph Anderson's a fucking massive faggot.
I do.
The, uh, he said something like, uh, you wouldn't complain if a certain
clothes shop had a specific line of clothing compared to any other, or, uh,
any compared it to like certain technology being only available in certain stores.
And, um, uh, Fringy was going nuts with it, as you can imagine.
Cause I keep, I keep telling him to make a video on it.
I was like, do a video where you just do like a 10 minute rant about all the
biggest reasons why everyone's retarded on this subject.
And he's just like, Oh, I might do.
And I was like, gotta keep pushing him guys.
But, um, yeah, uh, he, he was like, you know, like the, the important thing
to remember is something like if Sony make a game and they also have a console,
it's not exactly immoral for them to just place it on their console.
It would make the most sense ever, but you have a company who's actively
bribing other companies to go from being an open off other places.
Yeah, that's fucking scummy.
Especially when your platform is unsafe, he'll get their data stolen all the time.
There's no reviews on it.
It's got basically no features.
It's hell with that.
Yeah, it's, uh, it's not cool.
And yeah, they taken borderlands through, which is testing a lot of people's
resolve now, will they still, I'm just not going to play it until it comes to this
team.
We'll see you, you say that like casually rags, but you're a very principled man.
A lot of people are like, well, it's bad, but it's borderlands.
We've got to buy it.
Uh, how does anyone else feel about this?
Is the borderlands one remaster going to be on steam?
Ooh, I guess we'll find out.
Or just cause I would play the borderlands one remaster.
If it was on Epic, it was on steam.
No, yeah, I was saying, I'm saying that like, there are people who agree with the
fact there's a horrible practice, but they will still support, I say support Epic.
They'll still buy borderlands three on Epic, which is, you know, I think Boogie's
one of them, he said that he's, he's come out against it fully, but he's like, yeah,
but I'm a borderlands fan boy.
So I'm getting it.
And it's like, uh, cause Boogie doesn't have any principles.
I mean, Boogie's Boogie is like a read.
And he sways in the wind.
He is not like a rock.
He is not like a mountain.
He's evolved.
He is like a river.
He just goes with the flow.
You stuck back in 2008.
I boogie is boogie is a 2024 Acasio Cortez Superman.
What do you guys reckon on the, should you, if you condemn like the actions of
like a store and stuff for that degree, should you buy anything on it?
Or should you just leave it?
I mean, you shouldn't, but I think some people would,
I go to CDC movies all the time and I fucking, I hate them every time.
And I don't hate those practices though.
Right.
You just hate them for like how crappy the movies are.
I'm assuming that's still part of the practice.
Right.
Every time I go, I'm disappointed.
Like I haven't even seen Aquaman on a larger scale.
I feel that way about Amazon.
Like I think Amazon in many ways is a terrible company by the way they treat
their employees and by the way they've, they've messed up, uh, like even
the city we live in, in some ways.
So, but I still shop, I still shop through Amazon all the time.
They're just so effective.
Yeah.
They offer, I'm not an Amazon fan boy either.
I like.
Yeah.
No, I think that, um, makes sense to a degree.
So the Amazon is like, what is even the competition to Amazon?
Nothing.
I mean, there used to be Walmart that used to be like the number one retail giant in
America.
And now it's easily Amazon and it's, it's just crazy how big they are.
Internet trend fad.
Yeah.
Amazon doesn't even want to just be the best at what they do.
They want to start taking over everything else.
Everybody else does.
And also be the best.
Yeah.
I mean, they were just a bookstore stores now only.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
We have them here because the world headquarters of Amazon is right here in
the area that we live in.
And yeah, there's, if you can just go into the store and pick up what you want
and leave without checking out and it'll just bill your Amazon account.
They actually have to.
I thought that was still just a concept.
I'm.
No, they have a store in Seattle.
Yeah.
The Linus tech tips has a video going through it.
It's actually kind of like, it's, it's, it's like cyberpunk university sort of
thing.
It's like, oh my God, a world where you walk in and take stuff and walk out.
It's all charged to a card.
Yeah.
You don't even have to scan the card.
It's just account things.
Like how the fuck does that even work?
That's just the future.
The honor system.
They also have a banana stand here in Seattle that you can go to.
You can be homeless.
You can not to work there.
You could just go up and get a banana.
So that's, that's, that's their contribution to not being evil.
They're like, well, just give away banana.
They probably have a panda preservation thing as well.
Oh man.
Oh, China, I heard has taken back their pandas from, uh, the San Diego Zuson.
Cause China owns basically all the pandas.
That's what I heard.
Yeah.
I heard they're going to monopolize pandas now.
Wow.
Well, no, China has the monopoly.
I think there's one, maybe one panda that may, may or may not be alive now that
isn't China owned because they actually gifted it back in the day, but they,
they only get, they put them out on lease.
Fuck China or loan.
Yeah, I wouldn't say that we're going to get our pandas taken away.
Fuck shit.
Copy.
Stray for useless anyway.
How do you, if we get our pandas, if you get our pandas taken away, the average
intelligence of animals in any other country will go up.
It's like they make out landmines.
What do pandas do?
They can fall over.
That's really useful.
Oh, they are funny.
Well, bamboo grows at such a rapid rate and they eat that shit.
So we might be overgrown with bamboo.
They do the incredibly important job of making other animals feel good about
themselves, but at least I'm not retarded and can get laid.
So you've got a cockroach there going, everyone hates me, but I'm not a panda.
That's how evolved pandas are.
They're not retarded.
They just, they just know sex is boring.
Their pain is going their own way.
Maybe the hyper evolves and that's where we're all headed.
Sex is boring.
It's weird how the Chinese that have an extremely huge population can't figure
out how to repopulate the world with pandas.
Just saying, maybe they want to control the, the, the flow of panda.
They don't want to have, yeah, they don't want to saturate the panda market because
of the individual pandas because we unveiled that conspiracy.
Oh, that's not good.
I'm sure they have to shut it down in stream.
Yeah, people are saying that in the chat back up.
Yeah, hopefully it's resumed.
Sorry, guys.
Pandas are great.
Yeah, pandas are one of the best and China's the best.
Amazing.
I love good old, I love good old China pandas.
We always try to attract our earlier statements about the great country of
China and their panda population.
I love the, the People's Republic of China.
I was about to mention that we went offline and then we all came back.
We all were like very clearly different people with very strong Chinese accents.
I know we're the same, we're the same people that we always were.
Nothing's changed.
Red panda good.
Um, so anyway, it kind of what I asked, but I was like, has anyone here seen the, uh,
the new Joker trailer for the Joker movie?
Yes.
Oh yeah, I have not.
Um, well, okay.
So like a quick primer is it looks to be a guy in a relatively normal life who's
getting more and more sort of depressed and angry with how everything's going.
He has, it looks like he gets a job as a, like an advertisement.
Yeah, as a clown.
And then he gets like beaten up at one point.
And the way it seems to go is that he might get revenge on society
or something like that.
Have you heard that the film is pissing people off?
I think I've seen something about this.
Is it the, the idea that it's glorifying egotistic?
Like the complaint is that it's trying to provide an empathetic origin to a white
serial killer slash person who revolts against society and hurts people.
And so they're like, you shouldn't do that our society.
And obviously like, you know, not like sides, but a lot of, it seems to be like
hardcore left siding people who are very angry at the movie's trailer for being
like, Oh great, a movie about a white guy who hates society.
That's what we need.
It's like, what?
These are the same people who say that you can't make world war two video
game campaigns as a Nazi, or you can't, you can't not portray every single
Nazi is a terrible, horrible person, or no one in the German army in the 1940s
could have been like a human being stuck in a bad situation.
They didn't want to be in.
Same people.
I think that, I think that's obvious, right?
You can't just be a Nazi and be good.
That's, that's, that's what the narrative is.
We won, we won.
Every single person in Germany, the second Nazism was created
were evil automatically.
That's why all their porn is like poo poo stuff.
You take away their Nazi and they just have a bunch of doo doo porn.
Oh yeah.
Well, we're just going to shit on each other.
How about that?
The interesting thing I found was like, you know, ages ago when I, when I was a kid, I
remember like an article came out that two kids had killed a selection of people
and they said that they'd quote unquote, like gotten inspired by doom.
And so there was like this whole conversation as, as you guys are all probably
away at once upon a time, there's like our video games too violent for society.
They're causing blah, blah, blah.
I was just like, that came mainly from the right, right.
For, for memory at the time, it was like the, like the conservative religious right.
Yeah.
And so it was also, there was also like tip or gore on the left that was really
advocating for that kind of stuff too.
And, and labeling inappropriate music too.
Like she gave us the labels on all the panic panic and dragons and rock and roll.
Considered like a, yeah, I thought we were past this.
Back then, just goes to show you don't judge aside by its crazies.
Yes.
Back then we weren't so radical in terms of, I mean, we were more, we were more
conservative generally and religious as a society.
And so that got a lot of people primed against weird stuff like that.
And it's generally viewed as a very right wing conservative thing back then that was
done and now it's like completely flipped.
The people who want to censor and de-platform and ban everything.
It's coming from the left.
We're living to see it all everybody.
I just, that's my reaction.
I was just like, I thought we had this conversation ages ago.
Like I thought we were done with this.
Like, Oh yeah, but this time we're right.
You kind of have to abandon the decency argument when your president like wins
the week after he says he grabs people by the pussy.
He never said it was people by the pussy.
I thought he didn't.
I'm pretty sure he said, he said, you know, he said you can.
No, he said women.
Yeah.
15 years ago or whatever.
He said, yeah, when you're rich and famous, women will let you grab them by the pussy.
I mean, okay.
He still said grab them by the pussy, right?
Yeah.
When, how many was this 11, 13, 15 years ago?
I mean, I just, I'm just saying that the week before he was elected, it came out.
So you can't really be like, we're the, we're the decency party.
When you're, you know, the funniest thing, you know, the funniest thing about that
was is there, you know, there was him and the guy he was talking to Billy Bush, who
strangely enough is also the cousin of George W.
Bush, the former president.
After that video came out, Donald Trump got elected president and now Billy Bush
can't find a job to save his life.
Kind of funny how that works for Billy Bush to grab more pussies on a highlight.
Wolf just joined the profile picture.
Who is this Wolf you talk of?
You're back now.
I thought you were going to take way longer.
Back when?
I don't know.
What's are you talking about?
Are you actually, your, your, your German has a twinge of Russian in it.
I cannot do, yeah.
Show me your papers.
Yeah.
Maybe I should have gone with Stalin.
Maybe I'll do that.
All right.
Stalin and Google images.
We, is this happening?
Is it a six-man e-fap?
I'm challenge accepting this.
Like I'm cool.
It is currently a six-man e-fap.
We can do it in the nation chamber.
Stalin smiling.
Also, he looks so happy.
Um, I have to ask a question real quick.
This is a very important one.
It's about all the rings, patients.
No, it is.
I want to know who thought it was good idea to replace me with this J.
Um, everyone thought that he paid me.
Nobody thought that nobody thought that I'm the boss of e-fap.
So I just got to make these decisions.
You have not watched 90% of movie in existence.
You can, I don't think anyone's watching 90% of the movies in existence.
That's actually true.
Yeah.
To be fair, I mean, when you think about how many movies there are.
That's what I'm saying.
You probably haven't watched 90%.
Um, 10% of movies.
You haven't watched like 99.6%.
I know, wait, I want to cause a, cause a war here for the fun of it.
Uh, Rags, why don't you tell Wolf what you think of Thor Ragnarok?
Oh, I thought it was hilarious.
I loved it.
Okay.
No, you're supposed to, no, fight.
Get angry.
No.
You're changing your avatar too fast.
Try again later.
So, okay.
So I'm stuck as funny.
I am Billie.
What did you think of Thor Ragnarok?
I was great.
Uh, Ben, what do you think?
I liked it.
I'm sorry, Wolf.
You've been, you've been beaten by popular.
Sorry.
I didn't, I didn't find any jokes funny at all.
Oh, really?
Well, you're wrong.
Oh yeah.
Do you have like a tinge of the tism?
There must be like one or two.
He found funny, like what terrible taste.
I found the, the, the one at the beginning where Thor goes back to Asgard and Loki
is posing as Odin and he sees Thor and he's like, Oh shit.
Yeah.
I thought that was kind of, that guy got a chuckle out of me.
Oh, it's all, it's all good.
Like, I'm sorry that I didn't laugh at any jokes aside from that one.
It does make you evil, but I will forgive you.
Like, I have no one to apologize to, but yourself, Jake, you have,
Jay, excuse me.
I know exactly what I'm doing.
You watched the first Lord of the Rings film and then didn't watch the sequels.
Can you understand, do you understand how bad of a person you are?
Does it make you feel better to know that I did look up some cinder in?
What?
He speaks out of it.
You see cinder and even wolf doesn't know.
Uh, I looked up some elvish in the meantime between films
because I thought it was interesting.
Uh, and then I learned some and I remembered it for 10 minutes
and now I've forgotten it again.
Well, time well spent.
Wait.
So is it just another name for elvish?
Is that the deal?
Well, there's like different kinds of elvish is what, is what I learned.
Well, elvish is like a slur word.
It's like calling them Negro.
It's like a whole species.
Obviously there's more than one language for a species.
It's like, you know, like, no, there's only human now.
Oh, tree grows is what I should.
Those are the ends.
That's an elvish slur.
I was just describing what a tree, a tree does.
You're going to get on tree beards nerves if you do that.
Tree beards nerves.
Yeah, but you wouldn't know who that is.
You never watch the second movie.
I do know who that is because I think it's a ridiculous name for a character.
How does that mean?
You know, your name is Jay.
Your name is a letter.
Actually, it's three.
It just sounds like a letter.
I mean, it rhymes with gay.
I got a lot of that through school.
Really?
I was about to worry about how silly my last name is as well.
And remember, I'm not showing that because I guess I was about to buy them.
I like you in high school that gay.
I remember when my class in like year five discovered the word gay lord.
Everyone was saying it about each other for ages.
They found it absolutely hilarious.
Like the Lord of the Gay.
Yeah, because only one person could be the Lord of the Gays.
The rest are just his gay subjects.
If you're going to watch the Lord of the Gays, you've got to watch the extended
editions. You only watch the first Lord of the Gays, though.
Yeah, but I'm going to watch the second Lord of the Gays pretty soon.
Also, yeah, we need to keep this going.
Ben Billy, can you condemn him for doing that, by the way?
He only watched the first Lord of the Rings.
So I'm thinking that Lord of the Gays is it still has Frodo in it.
I haven't. Yeah, you should at least watch.
Oh, my God. Are you about to say this?
I haven't seen the third Hobbit movie.
Oh, that's fine. That's fine. That's fine.
OK, OK. I fell asleep during the Hobbit movies.
That's fine. Yeah.
I just make sure that I'm committing some sort of crime.
You don't have to.
I would recommend you don't watch the Hobbit movies at all.
Yeah, I kind of want to.
But I don't I can't just only watch the Lord of the Rings.
Did you at least watch the Lord of the Rings?
Oh, yeah, I've never done like an extended marathon
where you watch all of them back to back.
I've never done that, but I've done that.
We can figure out opening night for all of them.
I like them all, but Return of the King, man.
It just dragged like the ending dragged on forever.
Yeah, you need to have 48 endings if you're going to have a movie that long.
Right. Yeah, it's hard to make a three hour film
with that many main characters and get them all in.
I can smell wolf is burning right now. He's like.
Mm hmm. Yeah, this is over.
I watch more to let you know everyone who has ever seen.
Oh, geez. Hey, you know, he Hugo Weaving is in mortal engines
and he was also Elrond in Lord of the Rings.
There you go.
I don't know that I don't want to ever.
What a sad I guess he he was married, so he's more like Elrond husband.
Well. So anyway,
we have a running sort of bet on a fair because we're not huge.
Wait, this this is going to be weird because you say that,
but we haven't like put anything in.
You can bet that you're right.
With with what? What what am I doing?
Your your abilities to predict their integrity? Yes.
My integrity.
If you're wrong about this,
there's nothing that'll do more damage to anyone's career.
And there's three integrity points.
This will be weird because Billy really likes the last Jedi.
But I'll ask the question anyway.
Who do you think will be the most inconsistently written character
of episode nine, which this might work
because I don't know how Billy feels about JJ's writing.
You know, maybe he feels like, yeah, we fucked up.
But yeah, any take on this you want.
The current top voted characters of Finn Poe and Luke.
But even Appa Bend went with R2D2.
So, you know, you never know who you might go for.
But yes, the winners win all of the dignity and respect.
That's how this works.
What do you think?
And you can't choose Kylo.
I think you can't choose Kylo.
Yeah, you can't choose Kylo Orlando because we expect those two to be the worst.
I think we put the we put the Lando rule in after Solo.
We forgot that he was going to be in it.
And then we realized we're like, oh, shit, they're not.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
Of course, they'll fuck him up because he's an OT character.
So we've decided to disqualify him.
So, yeah, and he takes I want to change my vote quickly.
No, you're not allowed to do that.
Well, so you can't just change your vote.
So you're saying in episode nine, which character will change drastically
compared to how they were presented in the first two to rephrase it?
Which one do you think will be like the poor, poor, less poorly, less poorly?
Yeah, poorly. It's written and you can use any justification you want, really.
Well, no, we said inconsistent.
We did. But, you know, most that's kind of
that would be important would be the most inconsistent with what came
with what the characters were before.
And, yeah, you obviously we call no.
It's just what do you think?
Billy, I wonder if they'll get it a good performance out of Leia.
She's dead. That'll be pretty.
Yeah, but they still have her footage that she's going to be.
Yeah, they have. They have her in it.
Like they've said that they've they they pieced together stuff.
They filmed of her and they're going to have her in.
So does that count?
Like if you're using it, yeah, it's almost like it's almost like a Star Wars
weekend at Bernie's crossover at that point. Yeah.
It is just running through the diet naga pit
in the garbage shoot with her dead body.
There's lots of playing in the background.
Yeah, I think they'll probably fuck up Finn.
I don't know.
I feel like Poe Dameron is carbon copy like solo character.
You know, he's just got the he's the cool leader or whatever.
I don't know if they can really fuck that up unless they make him.
I don't know, become a feminist with the purple hair.
He'll die his hair, but fuck baby.
Do you go with? Yeah, I don't think I'll go that far.
I think I think Finn, I don't know, I don't know with Finn.
He's kind of like the cut character anyways.
I thought it was super cool, like on solo.
No, no, no. Poe Poe Poe is the solo.
Yeah. Oh, and Finn is the sort of. Yeah.
Yeah, Finn is likely Finn Finn is there right now
just to like be a diversion for Ray.
So do you think that they have this special connection?
But we all know that Ray and Kylo are going to bang.
All the male characters are kind of cucks.
Not not Kylo.
He's just angry white male.
No, he gets beat.
He gets saved.
He has to get saved by Ray and Ray beats him in the first one.
That's true.
He literally isn't he literally a school shooter?
Isn't that what he did to the school?
Stop. He's a school stammer.
He was. Yeah, he's a before TFA and TLJ.
You know, we didn't get to see that in in present time. So that's his.
Yeah, I love it.
Someone in the chat called him Kuklo Ben Kuklo Ben.
Damn, what you reckon, Ben?
Oh, man, I want to say Finn, too.
He's almost Finn kind of destroyed the way I saw stormtroopers, too.
Like I never. Yeah.
Just the entire concept of him kind of ruins what a stormtrooper is.
I'm lame now, which I think that I think they're not lame.
I think that he obviously has some force sensitivity.
So he was able to break out of the. Oh, my gosh.
Yeah, isn't he the only wheel of the lightsaber?
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
It's an object that you can pick up.
It exists. You can pick it up and press the button.
At least for sensitivity.
I mean, maybe fucking according to them, that's why he broke the mold.
Remember, everyone you have, it's within us all.
The little kid with the broom at the end of last year, I was a metaphor for the
that the Jedis and the Sith have been hoarding the force
this entire time for themselves.
And it could have been all of ours.
What? How would they have all been taking up rooms?
How would they hold the force, though?
They're keeping their just like they're because they make it up in their own homes
and they're not letting it get out of their houses.
No, no, they make it a myth and people don't believe in it.
So they don't try and work towards the myth.
Every one has everyone has my force.
This is my force, but nobody believes in it.
But even Ray, who's yeah, but that doesn't make sense
because it was just 30 years ago that Luke Skywalker saved the galaxy
and Darth Vader was the second in command of the evil galactic empire.
Yeah, but the Jedi still made people believe that there was
it was very rare to be able to use force atonement or attunement or whatever.
But tuberculosis is rare, I believe in it.
Yeah, but you people don't believe in tuberculosis sometimes
and they try and faith heal their children and their children die.
This is all a way away.
Because like, but what about in the prequels where they had
like a whole system predicated on the fact the force did exist?
Yeah, but you had to be within the Jedi to even know about it.
You know, there was there were people who were not at all.
Sure, there was a Wikipedia.
That's not true at all.
You had to can knew about them before there was a Jedi temple.
Isn't like there's a man at the Jedi temple.
The Jedi temple was full of little kids, so they indoctrinated children
and made the children think they had to come in at a very early age to become Jedi.
But that wasn't true, because no, because Anakin came in as a little grown.
What happened to him? He started.
It's because he was left to the magic prophecy child made,
but he was fucked into existence by the force.
Yeah, he explained to me.
And why gone was Michael Jackson?
Billy, explain to me how I didn't know that Michael Jackson,
Macaulay Culkin, had a thing.
Oh, yeah, it was to me.
Billy has this insane theory about why the the
the like weird milking happened in the last story.
Go for it. And why?
Go for it. Is there an insane theory?
OK, tell me what you always tell me about it.
Because he's a pacifist.
He has to use his powers to do pacifism things.
So he's like running around doing the golf.
He's doing the old farm boy thing.
He doesn't have his powers.
He cut himself off.
He still has his powers.
He just doesn't use them for war.
So he goes and makes himself off.
He's using his powers to know, you know, he's sliding around
on those sticks, just having a good old time being a sweet boy.
This is what he does.
He's a farm boy now.
He's a milk grape is sweet.
It's not rape.
I mean, any any sort of are you vegan?
Is that the thing?
Because I think that I think it was clearly consensual.
If that cow didn't win milk, I think I just drink soy milk, man.
You ever try to milk a soybean?
There's something else.
There's something else you always tell me, though.
It goes back to some other milk that he had or something.
Well, yeah, it's for fanboys to throw back the blue milk on the farm.
But this whole scene is him going back to being the farm boy.
Luke, he's no longer the the young warrior that was swayed
by the dark side and the light side, you know.
So you're telling me that those those those elephant things
with the tit ball sacks were just lounging around tattooing, too?
No, they weren't.
There was obviously different animals, because this milk was green.
Not blue. It has to be different.
It is forget that in the way.
So the green milk was a throwback to the blue milk.
The green milk was a throwback to the farmer boy.
Yeah. I mean, green is a color.
And so it's blue. Yeah, but white is a color, too.
Well, yeah, but not everything is going to be white and green in space, right?
And the next religion is going to be red milk.
Not everything.
Red milk.
Adam and drink their blood.
And he's going to there is like there is pink red red red connotations.
I think he should have sucked it directly from the boob.
I think the milk is actually pink.
This was a sea cow that eats a lot of algae.
So that's why it was green.
And yet he spilled a little over his beard.
I was like, what are you doing?
Like, I think I think that's just what he wanted to happen.
Yeah. It made me uncomfortable, man.
He uses this so I was uncomfortable. Yeah.
Who needs a milk mustache when you can have a milk bukaki?
Yeah, I was going to say with those votes,
and is once again the the top forward one.
You're joining me on that vote.
I actually think Finn will be the most inconsistent as well.
And Jay, but Jay, I thought I would just is a tweener, right?
He's there to show that there's a third option.
It's not light side, dark side.
It's don't join.
That's why he had DJ or whatever in the.
Well, I thought that was what Kylo was.
Well, Kylo Kylo.
Well, Finn's going to be the catalyst that gets everybody to realize
that there's a third choice. Is it?
I thought he joined the resistance hardcore in the second.
Yeah, he joined the resistance pretty hardcore.
He was going to die for Finn Finn did.
Yeah, but but he doesn't he's he's still there's a third movie here.
He starts he starts he starts as a little stormtrooper.
He turns into the little sacrificial lamb and then he realizes,
you know, that he can't just kill himself
and make everything better because suicide awareness month.
So it's it's an easy it's an easy fix.
He's just going to be the savior, young Finn.
And we're going to be like someone you'd like, though.
Or I'm saying, like, is it is that still your vote for most inconsistent?
Well, that's if they fuck it up, right?
Well, I mean, if this is a perfect world,
if Finn was being competent, that would be kind of a swash in character.
He does fuck up a lot.
Hope Holder comes back as a force ghost.
Oh, yeah, we need. Oh, God.
Like, imagine her pitching at you for eternity.
Lord doing it and doing is the key to all of this.
Has there been a pink force ghost yet?
Oh, God.
It's like if I could change my vote, I'd go for C3PO
given the recent like potential leaks.
No, with that gun, not the guy.
No, it's not confirmed.
But like, if I if I want to hedge my bets, just like if that's true.
Yeah, he's going to be the most inconsistent.
Yeah, but imagine we'll see through getting to that point.
I don't know, but I kind of want to believe it almost.
I mean, I'm on WIC.
I would happily watch that.
And he apologizes every time he obliterates a planet.
Yeah, Mark Hamill did say that was that didn't seem like a fan made poster.
So if he said it's like, hmm.
Yeah, but who knows?
It looks like a funny poster, but it had it clearly had leaks on it
because it had the Knights of Ren on it.
It wasn't just that it was the Knights of Ren.
It was like a pose that I don't think has been anywhere else.
That's why it's like, hmm.
You don't think it might have been in a book or something that came out?
Maybe, maybe.
But then surely someone would have dug that up and like, yeah, where it came from.
Hopefully.
Anyway, someone's got images from somewhere that weren't available anywhere else.
And I'm guessing that like and that same post they've shown C3PO
with the bowcaster and the ammo belt.
So I don't know.
I want to I want to think that I want to think there's something in it.
Um, I mean, we had to account for Wolf.
We are we are bad men bad.
We insulted Willow in the last stream and a lot of people weren't happy about that.
Well, I'm sorry that you guys like a movie.
That's not good.
They won.
They know the position is they want to hear actual arguments.
So just saying it's bad.
And I have to watch it again.
They brought the fact that we said it was like a clone of Lord of the Rings.
It is.
But they're saying, like, it's a clone, but it did things differently.
Is that somehow still bad?
And I've actually said in the past that I don't actually too much mind clones
if you do it well and change up enough stuff.
If you copy a great story, you know, you still have a great story.
So I suppose I should add some more substance to Willecs.
I actually did watch because you're the one.
You're the one that watched it more recently.
I watched it like three years ago and I was like, oh, this is kind of garbage.
Yeah.
So like genuinely my position is I didn't realize I had to actually substantiate.
I thought people hate not hated, but knew it was bad, like watching it.
I was well, you know, George, you know, George Lucas has a midget fetish, right?
Oh, totally. Why not?
Don't we?
Well, we brought up in the last stream, but he originally called the movie Munchkins.
That's because really midgets are the only kind of people
that you can juggle in bed.
Yeah, that's not true.
Anorexics are pretty pretty wobbly.
Snap. I saw Willow.
I saw Willow in the theater when I was a kid and I liked it.
Then I haven't watched it through adult eyes.
Oh, yeah, I liked it as a kid.
And then I rewatched it.
I didn't know I was like 19.
And I was like, oh, this isn't as good as I remember it being at all.
Mad Mardigan is going to come haunt your dreams.
Yeah. Val Kilmer's character was pretty badass.
Yeah. Those people really like Mad Mardigan. That's fine.
I don't think there's, you know, that's not where I would aim my criticisms.
There will be that everybody's hamming it up in that movie,
which is just just, you know, like the woman that gets her baby taken in the beginning.
I don't remember this, but she's like, you know, you will be stopped one day.
Like, oh, yeah, that's OK.
But were a lot of movies just cheesy as hell back then?
Totally. What I'd rather target is stuff like, do you remember the the evil,
evil sort of subordinate woman who like completely turns
halfway through the movie to a good guy?
Sorcha. Her name was Sorcha.
She is funny enough.
I found out there was a deleted scene that she was told that her father was killed
or at least captured by the evil witch and that that helps make her decide to be a good guy.
But it's just cut from the movie.
So she kind of becomes a good guy after Val Kilmer kisses her
and tells her that he loves her.
And it's kind of just weird.
And those those two got married in real life.
They did two actors.
They also got divorced.
Yeah. Yeah, true.
And yes, it was really funny to watch her.
Like, do you remember the seat of the castle where she's just watching him?
They have like six reaction shots of her just falling in love with watching him fight.
Yeah. Really fucking awkward.
Because I remember watching her like, is she going to kill anyone?
Or OK, she's just like beyond in love.
She's like an extremely weak character.
The the fellowship part of it.
You know, like you get like all the all the what are they called?
Nell wins, I believe the race of whatever.
They all go off in like a big group.
And then like 10 minutes later, they all leave apart from two.
Because like they're like, oh, our job's done.
And they go back to the village.
And I was like, man, that was what about the little
what about the little like fairy guys?
They were like the comic.
They were like high pitched, French midget fairy things. Right.
Oh, hello. How are you?
There's the one thing literally that there's the scene where they had accents like that.
And there's the one scene where they fell into the beer and they get all wasted.
I know I fell into the alcohol.
Yeah. But yeah, I'm trying to think of one.
Funnily enough, you can find I did a livestream with two of the guys
watching it while commenting on like the pros and cons.
The idea was that they made it black and white and zoomed in.
So you can't get copyright and mute it, obviously.
Well, we get the audio.
So look for that and you'll be able to get like a livestream.
And the guy who set it up loves Willow.
He said it was better than Lord of the Rings.
So you'll be able to watch. Wow.
You'll be able to watch me argue against that.
Actually, to clarify, I think he said he loved it more.
I'm not going to say he definitely said it's better.
I can't remember exactly what he said.
Point being, Willow is
a special movie.
I can see why people like it, though.
The nostalgia factor is him on the 88, didn't it?
Well, you know, you can order a meal and everything about the meal
is pretty bland, but there's like one ingredient in the meal
that made them worthwhile.
You know, like there's maybe like a really nice fresh truffle or something.
I don't ever eat in a fucking truffle, but I imagine that could.
You'd be able to tell a good truffle from a bad truffle.
Yes. Yeah.
Got a truffle sniff and pig.
But I think that dwarves are kind of like that for movies, right?
Like it could be a bad movie.
But if there's a dwarf in it, it's automatically like whimsical and chill.
So like that even includes like Danny DeVito.
Like there's never been a bad movie.
That is a good truffle.
Yeah, he's a good truffle.
So it's like you throw down DeVito or like a little.
What's the little the pecs name in that movie?
I forget his name.
He's like, you realize that's a sleigh, right?
Is it in the movie?
Yeah, you don't have to say, oh, crap.
Oh, yeah, Peck. Yeah.
Racist. Yeah.
Crap. And give me some water, Peck.
Oh, God.
I apologize to the peck.
The guy I was watching it with was about to refer to that, that he was like,
oh, wait, is that are we is that is that bad?
Like, I don't know when I came in a fictional sleigh.
I think you're fine.
Oh, no, I don't know how it works.
I don't know.
It's really like a big fan, dude.
Billy's a big fan of dwarves.
Like, yeah, time.
Yeah, I got spanked by one in Las Vegas.
Yeah. Yeah.
He went to this restaurant where if you don't finish your whole plate of food,
they they bend you over and spank you like your waitress does.
And he picked the dwarf waitress.
No, I didn't pick her. She picked me.
I think she knew she has whimsical powers.
What did you do?
Deliberately not eat the whole thing so that you could get that.
Oh, yeah. Well, the thing is, if you're over a certain weight,
you get to eat for free anyways.
So I just kept ordering until I was full.
And then aren't there laws against assisted suicide?
Not that it's funny because the other restaurants
called the Heart Attack Grill.
So I've heard of that place.
I've heard of that place. Yeah.
They they pushed the boundaries of decency and it's wonderful
because this tiny little thing just started slapping my ass with a paddle.
And I don't know.
Like, I felt like I was there.
I was Mad Mardigan.
I felt like, yes, they started slapping my ass.
Yeah. It was quality.
Yeah, I want to I want to show you guys this just quick.
I've posted a link.
A friend of mine really likes Sekiro and he found a really funny review for it.
Rags, we want to just don't just read it out quick.
I thought it was fucking hilarious that this is even something someone wrote.
Well, all right.
Zaidlitz gave this a zero out of 10.
He said this game is simply unplayable.
It is not exactly hard.
Just require a lot of skill form player.
And lame.
Such to say.
It's the kind of like that game has gotten a bits and bobs of controversy.
Controversy. I'm planning on playing it once I fucking get done with Captain
Marvel, but that's fine.
I've heard it's good.
Barely anything else.
That's bullshit has actually been complaining about it recently, right?
So, you know, it's from software and the from software defense squad
is going to fucking come out in anything that you say against the game is get good.
It's like what character development story dialogue writing.
You just fucking did good.
I feel like I got that even when I was attacking DS2.
There's a huge portion of people that love that game.
Oh, yeah, they cannot stand the idea that a from software game is just imperfect.
Well, there is a bit of the whole like you don't get it or you're not good enough
or you, you know, yeah, it's like if I say, you know what?
This enemy's hitbox is kind of like it's sort of getting me
and I not really think it's getting me because I'm looking at my footage again.
And they're like, oh, yeah, we should do it.
It's the game's fault.
Yeah, a lot of people want us to cover Tonal to make a video about it.
We had we can't just have Tonal to every single episode.
OK, guys, are you sure?
We don't know is the greatest thing that has ever happened to this show.
Tonal is the reason this show exists.
Tonal, the video, as far as I've been told by friends, obviously, I told Wolf this.
I also friend of mine to check it out because I hadn't played Sekiro yet
and they hadn't seen it down with thrust video before.
And the first thing they sent me was, why does he talk like a fucking retard?
Did I explain that?
But yeah, two of the top comments on his video had Tonal in it.
One of them is mine, but I'm still very proud that we're.
Make sure you download the video in case he takes that one down, too.
I mean, I doubt he will.
But yeah, sure, I'll do that.
Interestingly, as well.
The the fact like you know how his fan base works.
It's like he tries to put out videos that hit the click based sort of things.
We don't he doesn't have much of a strong fan base.
It's every time he gets views, it's from a bunch of new people.
But like us talking about him, I think is already getting people to keep an eye on him
ironically, if you know what I mean?
Like he's got a fan base now that's strictly from Efab, which I what I'm trying to say
is like, yes, subscribe to Tonal to support Tonal to keep having to make videos.
He's like one of our favorite contributors on this.
I like that people in the comments are actually starting to regularly call him Tonal, too.
Yeah, it's I I eagerly await the day when I can type
Tonal to look into the YouTube search box and his channel will come up.
Well, let's let's give it a shot.
I wonder if you have like a video where he's addressing the total.
Let's not. No, not yet.
Not yet. Yeah, not yet.
We'll get all the random things.
Something that like caught my interest.
So I thought it should be like just just metrics.
There was funny.
There was like this Twitter thread about how awful I am as a person, obviously.
And the the thing that got brought up was the whole objectivity and art
and how to talk about things object objectively.
And then they compared like they showed like a comment from someone
who may or may not have been a fan of me or us or whatever.
But it was just something like something typical.
Like you can feel however you want about it.
But objectively speaking, it's poorly beloved.
And then they were like, this is like a cult now.
And then someone else was like, God, I managed to avoid this cult for so long.
But it seems like it's getting bigger.
How did this happen?
One of the comments is literally like
Mueller is one of the people who's popularized this new cult.
I was like, what? Why do people keep on?
I was talking about reality, a cult.
I didn't realize this was it's gotten that badly,
that people actually consider, you know,
if I would have to be involved with it, like we looked as a cult now, really.
I mean, I think we are a cult.
The hateongers of the toxic, rude cult.
I can't wait. I accept being a cult.
It's I mean, my discord has turned into a cult.
That happened.
Alexa, no, stop.
Yeah, I just.
She says, yes, master.
I don't know what to.
Unfortunately, I can't make a do that.
I will be quiet for you, master.
It's only a matter of time before we'll get that video to cover
with people like unironically argue that we are a cult, which will be interesting.
I searched for Tonald and I found an interesting video
called Avengers is not a superhero movie.
That's a parody.
I really want to. Oh, is it?
Yeah. And fun enough, the guy who made it
linked me on Twitter and he was like, I made this
and he says a couple of references to stuff in there, I think.
Oh, I wanted to be real.
So, oh, yeah, by the way, I some people have noticed
I managed to set up a very basic thing on OBS
so that now whenever I remove the screen or add it,
it looks really stylish instead of it being crap.
How about that?
Oh, I noticed that.
Isn't it cool? I like it.
Why am I looking at the people talking?
Oh, wait. What do you have the link for the watch together, Wolf?
Oh, I didn't.
I didn't click on it yet.
Hold on. I got it.
Because why?
Oh, Panda, what's going on here?
What's he doing?
He's going around for violent stream to stay up.
So we can't really discuss it again.
Yeah, Panda is best Panda as Panda is.
I sure do love all creatures from.
Well, it's only been a few minutes, but of course,
there's already 30, at least one meme to show.
Wait, hold on.
Why did we have to stop watching the pan?
No reason at all.
I've done it.
We must hide it all from the masses.
We'll check out.
It had nothing to do with the People's Republic of China.
I love Tencent.
I'm glad they hid the force from the public, like.
That was a good meme.
I agree. And also.
So the first thing, I mean, I felt like we should have covered it before,
but I've got this three trailers and we can cover all three of them now.
It's Wolf's here as well.
Has anyone heard of Tommy Wiseau's new movie, The Big Shark?
I have.
Why so? It looks incredible.
So, yeah, again, control your volume on your end, folks.
And I'll be pausing semi-regularly to avoid good old copyright.
I don't even know.
I'm assuming Tommy Wiseau.
Can we get Tommy on the show?
Do you think? Do you think we can convince him?
I would love to, but please try.
Fuck, people want us to get Alex Jones.
That's probably not going to happen.
Exactly. Let's get Tommy and Alex Jones on the same show
and just let them talk for five hours and we can just eat popcorn and listen.
Maybe the aliens want to be our friend, Alex.
The clockwork and all sorts of aliens, but then Tommy is always like,
oh, that seems really interesting, huh?
I just want him to say hello, doggy to me.
This is a this is a film called The Big Shark,
and I think I'm going to want to see this when it comes out.
Oh, I've definitely seen this.
Me and my friend were so excited to see this trailer.
It's like, I want to go to the theater with Wolf to go see it.
I want I went to watch The Room and best friends in theaters
with another friend because we're huge Tommy Wiseau fans
and we lost our minds.
So wasn't that a two parter?
Best friends? Yeah. Oh, yeah.
It was OK. It was amazing.
So here we go.
Hey, guys. Oh, my.
Patrick.
Do you think you did that on purpose?
Oh, hi.
You are a jerk.
Damn. Don't be so mean to Greg.
Wow. That's loud.
The fucking sound effect.
Wow.
That sounded like a punch from Ivan Drago in a in a Rocky movie right there.
Yeah, with like a higher pitch to it, I guess.
Yeah. Yeah.
This is my best friend.
Oh, damn it.
This is this is intense.
Oh, Greg is Greg.
It's like feminines.
See, we got we got this whole amazing dramatic story going on.
Apparently, there's a shock in this as well.
It's like Jesus.
How can they contain it?
A big shark.
Who's that guy, by the way?
Is he in the other way?
I don't know who this is, but I'm interested to know.
I want to know if he's replaced by a different actor halfway through the movie.
Just like, what was what was his name?
They did with the glasses.
Oh, I can't remember his name.
You can't remember. There's no fucking way I'm going to remember.
Oh, I should know this.
I feel like I need to whip out my copy of The Disaster Artist now and figure this out.
How'd your base feel? Feels good.
Water, right?
What the fuck?
Water.
And then suddenly it's
how the fuck?
Look at look at Tommy.
He's just smiling like this is totally normal.
Is the entire place submerged?
I'm sure they explained in the movie.
Yeah.
This is cash.
So, you know, the shark is going to be the main reason to come see this movie.
Hello, shark shark versus Tommy Wiseau.
Oh, oh, my God, that noise.
Shark.
Why is it so loud?
Well, that's how sharks hunt by making lots of noise.
I paid a lot of money for this.
I'll show it twice.
Oh, double your that CGI is so bad.
Are you are you kidding?
That's the best CGI I've ever seen in my life.
Yeah, maybe in 2001.
You'd be amazed how you're just a here.
It's as involved as the cats going alive with shark milk.
Now, you know what I want?
You know what I want Tommy Wiseau to do in one of his future movies?
I want him to write something that links to the old lady having breast cancer.
I want him to have a universe in the room.
Think up. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Like Peter, that was his name.
Peter, the dude with the glasses.
And then like in the last scene, he just changes into a different person.
That was that's going to be set up by a prequel movie as well.
Or if it's going to be a whole there's a whole plot.
Well, we need we need to watch the room.
Oh, yeah, we could do that for our for our secret new project.
You know, I've finished editing me, you and Rags is the last thing we recorded.
If you remember who should be coming.
All right. That'll be fun.
Do best friends as well.
Yeah. Yeah.
So next up is this this game is pretty indie.
Nobody's really heard of it called Doom that did pretty well here and there.
And they had a film adaption of it back in.
Was it two thousand?
Some families. It was a while ago.
What was it? No, it had like Vin Diesel in it, right?
The wrong. Was it The Rock?
A rock. Oh, it was 2005. How about that?
Oh, yeah. So that movie, I actually don't.
It's one of my like, I like it is dumb, but I like it.
And I totally get why everyone hates it because it's awful.
But they've decided to make another one.
And I'm guessing like I have no idea what's going on for like
licenses or whatever, or if this is some kind of because it's just we do it.
We're dealing with another extremely cheap movie for some reason that looks awful.
But it's like, why can't Doom do is pretty popular?
Like, why wouldn't they?
I don't even like they're not even giving it to the people who made
like Resident Evil, you know, the movies that are like pretty bad
but still have a budget.
They have they're like enjoyable in a weird way.
But yeah, we they're fun to laugh at.
Yeah. So let's I would watch them all again.
The like to dislike ratio is, you know, it's not perfect on this video.
Let's let's check it out.
See what see what you guys think.
Let's keep an open mind, guys.
Keep an open mind, racist.
And receive the distressing moments before the base when I'm flying.
Wow, so your mission one to Doom Slayer.
That's my mission every day.
It's an ad in the paper for Doom Slayers.
Well, I like the plastic guns.
Yeah, you can.
It's funny how you can see cheapness in lighting and framing.
It gets weird that that's something you can detect.
Yeah, I mean, this camera angles are plastic props.
It's not in game anymore.
That was the predator sound.
Almost that's not a real gun that doesn't look real.
If those guns were weren't plastic, they would be able to like lift them.
And wait, is the Doom guy a chick now?
Yeah, there was something about it as well.
She posted on Twitter that she was like, who needs a Doom guy?
And it was like, oh, God, no, it's Brie Larson again.
I don't know if she's going as far as Brie Larson, but it's still kind of like, why?
It's just so strange that you take a series like Doom, which is the player
base is like 98 percent male.
And you're like, you know what?
This is the franchise we need to push for girl power.
Well, when they're like, you know, we're casting the rock.
You're like, oh, that makes sense.
We're casting.
Uh, he's like, what is what is it?
It's funny because the rockwood didn't even work, but I'm sure this one will.
Oh, you know, you keep saying they're casting women.
You keep saying they're casting women for girl power.
But did you ever take a moment to consider that women don't get paid as much
as men, so it might just be a cost-effective.
Oh, yeah.
And we don't know what the wage gap is on Mars.
Yeah, that's true.
Haven't even thought about it yet.
Demons get as much as male demons.
There's something that we need to look at this zombie wearing black face.
The social commentary is staggering.
Honestly, it just makes me want to watch the 2005 one.
Oh, I haven't seen this like ratio.
Holy shit.
Yeah, that's about as bad as I've ever seen.
That's one of the worst for sure.
Like the ratio is all the top comments.
It is it is 3200 up and 65,700 down.
Damn, not looking good.
It's literally worse than you should rewind 2018.
And for this to come out as well, so soon after the trailer for the new Doom,
which everyone's just getting hyped for again, then it's like, oh, this other
Doom thing like, oh, wait, wait, oh.
The comments is great.
Directors say your mission don't die.
Movie dies in the first trailer.
And then the just the trifecta of trailers.
For some reason, this is a new family.
We look at trailers.
Why not?
This is what a lot of people wanted us to check out is Wolfenstein,
Youngblood, which Braggs probably knows more about this than I do.
What is it exactly?
Is it a DLC or a game?
I think this is the next game.
And all that I know is that apparently the protagonists are the two
twin daughters of BJ Blazkowicz.
Why would you want to play a Wolfenstein game without playing as BJ?
I don't know.
Well, to be fair, the last Wolfenstein game you played is BJ,
and I wouldn't really suggest playing it.
That's true.
In which case, this is going to be even worse.
Maybe this should be the best of the three trailers outside of the Tommy Wise.
Oh, and how did the first Wolfenstein like the new order?
Not the first, obviously, but like the reboot.
Like that was such a good ass game.
And then, oh, then they.
Because it had the first Wolfenstein had interesting guns
that had interesting, meaningful upgrades.
The level design was fantastic.
And so those are like the pillars of a game of that kind.
I mean, it looked good.
It ran fairly well.
It had it had aesthetically interesting and well-designed levels.
It was just a great shooter.
It was a great, solid shooter game.
I even like the story and characters.
I thought they were pretty good.
Yeah. And so they should have just done that again
instead of trying to go for less gameplay, more cutscenes,
less interesting characters.
Why would you play a Wolfenstein game without a BJ?
Yeah, that's what we'll say.
It's probably worth saying as well, according to the man in chat,
it's always said they're not involved with the movie in any way, shape or form
on the distance from it. It's like, that doesn't surprise me.
Yeah, they put out a tweet.
There was like, yeah, this is nothing about us.
And it's funny because it's like they would probably make a better
Doom movie if they were, you know, if they were just doing cut scenes
from the games, probably a lot better.
Like it's just anyway, again, several people told me to watch this.
So let's just check it out.
I don't even know if this will be bad or not. Let's go.
Nancy. It's so much worse than I thought.
We'll drive the Nazis out of Paris.
Oh, my God. This is terrible execution out of Paris.
Oh, my God. Molly, this reminds me of that one Southern chick
from Edge of Tomorrow. Oof.
I don't like that accent.
I know. Maybe it's not just the accent.
It's like the the speed at which they speak as well.
Like it almost feels like they're deliberately slowing it down.
Like daddy did back home.
That sounds stupid.
No phone calls, no letters.
I'm BJ and I'm old.
He just vanished.
Is that BJ? Yeah.
Oh, he's got the gray hairs, guys.
There are a lot of swastikas in this.
Yeah, which means is that what's what's the deal with Germany right now?
They still they allowed it now or they took over the world.
No, I mean, I mean.
I mean, Germany get like fucking said said games and stuff.
Is that lifted now? Is it still going?
I think it's supposed to be lifted now.
Because it's annoying.
So I have a German friend who gets the German, the late versions of games.
Oh, God, not her again.
Let the country under a false identity about four weeks ago.
What the hell is this?
Yeah, there's if you look like Downsey, the face guy watching look really odd.
Code named Blackbird, Paris Catacombs.
Oh, that's your lead. He's in Paris.
You know, oh, my God, her her face is tired.
Well, I guess it's just up to us gals.
It's just it looks like
if until dawn was made by like one guy in a basement.
Oh, yeah, this is my fanfic.
My until dawn.
Woman's time.
The terror twins.
I thought there was three of them was one of them like a handler or something.
Yeah, one of them was just the black friend.
Oh, let me show you something.
It's do or die. Yeah.
What the fuck was that?
Oh, this looks terrible.
What's that again?
What's the point of helmets?
Can we wait, wait, wait, can we solve that down?
Velma Dinkley.
It's so much. Oh, my God.
Let's I'll give it a pass because it's set tonight.
I'll give it a pass.
We're going with going point five speed here.
No, you got to rewind it to the part where she's punching and screaming.
Now, is it not synced for you?
Drag, you know, it's not synced.
You guys drag it back to 55 or one of you instead of me.
What's the point of helmets?
OK, I got it covered in gold hexagons because that's her.
Why is it still a lady?
Hold on. I'm going to refresh my page.
It's not a sink for me.
It gets that into a punching bag, though.
She's like so into that.
She like fucking hates that punching bag.
Oh, my gosh. You're a Nazi punching bag.
Really?
Really?
Just like daddy told.
Yeah, that's not helping their accents, is it?
Yeah.
All right, I'll turn it back.
God. Oh, man.
I mean, at least it's killing stuff in it, you know.
Yeah, that's good.
Oh, look, the same boring weapons from the last game.
I didn't actually play that.
Do you play the last one, Wolf?
I made a review on it.
I hated it. Oh, yeah, it wasn't very good.
It was awful.
The first one is so good, though.
Play the shit out of the first one.
Yeah, the first one is awesome.
The the old or was it the no, the new order and then the old blood,
the old blood was fine.
It was kind of silly, but the new order was really good order.
And it works as a standalone to like
discount dubstep music right now.
Yeah, that's got to get hit with the kids, of course.
It just you know, I mean, it feels like his head is just my favorite film.
Oh, like I said, just I hate that.
I this this bugs me in games when you shoot someone in the head
and their head just disappears.
That that takes me out of a game so much.
You like it and where they split in half and the two flaps are still there.
Fuck, yeah.
But it's like in Killing Floor, it's
either they're dead, they're alien mutants or whatever.
But when you shoot someone with a handgun, their fucking head doesn't explode.
They just die and fall down.
When you can tell the head has has disappeared and it's been immediately
replaced with like separate entities that are like head pieces
because they're like in a completely different place. Yeah.
I think I do that. And is it sniper elite?
They do something like that.
I'm thinking of Fallout 4 and Fallout.
You see, Bethesda is actually really lazy and untalented.
So they do stuff like that.
Or it's just it's just random giblets that don't resemble at all what they came from.
Yeah.
I know a lot of people don't know this way.
Do that again, do that again.
Guys, you're weird.
Fucking white people.
Oh, that's true.
This is trying hard to be funny, isn't it?
It is weird.
Feels feels really awkward, doesn't it?
Dubstep was actually invented.
Dubstep was invented during the Second World War
and was key to taking down the Nazis the first time.
It was actually a code we use.
It just annoys them.
Yeah, the Germans dropped a dubstep on Japan.
Yeah, who dropped the beat.
That's the easiest thing I've ever said.
No one on God's Green Earth is going to find his ass.
We go find his ass.
Find his ass.
Fucking a fucking fucking a.
Yeah. Oh, no.
Well, if you ever killed Nazis before, we were born.
Kill Nazis, so badass born to kill Nazis.
Yeah, that sounds like some Antifa propaganda or Nazis.
This is sort of the game.
It's like, you know, they're not all evil, right?
How fucking dare you?
He's white. He's a Nazi.
Let's die together.
We can't wait to see that bit where they jump off the thing.
Who knows what will happen?
Yeah, I think they'll make it.
There was everyone playing this now.
Why do I really, really want to play this now?
I don't get bad things just appeal to me, I guess.
Like that makes sense.
Well, yeah, no, I mean, literally the first trailer we looked at was the big shock.
So we understand.
I want to see that as well.
Oh, yeah.
Which actually brings us to the actual fucking thing we're supposed to cover
today, because those are just funny things for anybody who's like, wait, memes.
I'll be like still collecting a few of them.
The plan is probably next time we'll do it.
We'll do a meme intro instead of looking at trailers and stuff.
But yeah, the idea is that there's a lot of videos out there.
Try to get your attention.
You really do.
And a lot of them, do you guys love the ones that like imply that you're wrong
and they don't even know what you think yet about a thing?
What you didn't think was what you thought was wrong about that movie you saw.
So if you remember, I believe the one we covered with Cosmonaut
was Raimi's Spider-Man movies were worse than you think.
I think that's what he said.
Well, yeah, but all I did was remind us how amazing they are.
Yeah, worse than you remember.
And he helped us remember how fucking good they are, especially the second one.
Yeah, not the third one.
But we've got another one in that degree from a channel called Brown Table.
You're a big fan of Brown Table, right, Jay?
I mean, I'm aware that they exist.
I've seen several of their videos and all of their videos that I see.
I'm just like, yeah, I'm still aware that you exist.
Only appreciate the title of this video.
Spider-Man 3, smarter than you think.
And then in the thumbnail, it says genius.
Oh, no, I think I don't see this.
Genius. When did this come out?
Uh, let's have a look.
Don't defend.
Of last year.
No way.
This came on 27 to 27 to that 2017.
How does it make you feel to know that of everything I haven't seen,
I have seen Spider-Man 3?
I think that makes sense.
It's a start.
Yeah, it actually makes a strange kind of sense that you've seen Spider-Man 3,
but you haven't seen The Lion King or Gladiator or The Last Samurai.
Oh, I think I've seen this or Braveheart or Kingdom of Heaven
or The Shawshank Redemption or The Green Mile or Stand By Me.
Yeah, or Alien.
Oh, wait, you have seen Alien.
How dare you get to see the aliens with that genius film?
Good Will Hunting, Rain Man.
Have you seen Birdman?
Probably not.
Oh, I've not seen Birdman, though.
I've seen Private Ryan.
There are some you can guess he hasn't seen, like with almost certainty.
Did you say Saving Private Ryan or Life of Brian?
Both.
I've seen Life of Brian.
I've seen Life of Brian.
Oh, so you have seen that movie.
OK, I've seen a lot of Money Python.
Name three.
Oh, shit.
Life of Brian.
Holy Grail.
I know that I've seen a lot because my family wishes a lot.
One more.
Couldn't I hang on?
Come on, come on.
Don't listen to me typing.
All right, that's fine.
At least you've seen Money Python in the Holy Grail.
Yeah, you know what?
You get to start.
You get to point for that.
All right.
Have you seen the Indiana Jones movies?
Yes, even Crystal Skull.
Thanks. Oh, my God.
Your favor.
I know. You know what?
I've seen it.
We have to bring this up since you brought up Indiana Jones.
Do you guys know who Mundane Matt is?
Are you familiar with him at all?
Yes, we unfortunately know.
We had him on the show once and we were talking about Indiana Jones movies
and he said, well, my favorite movie is The Last Crusade,
but my favorite Indiana Jones movie is The Temple of Doom.
What? And we looked at him like, what?
Uh-hmm.
And I said, I said, Matt, you dumb motherfucker.
One day your idiocy is going to catch up with you on a live stream
in front of a ton of fucking assholes and they're going to tear you apart
and you're going to deserve it for that fucking comment.
And then it did.
Yeah. Yeah.
But yeah. Yeah.
The Last Crusade is my favorite.
And I don't what's the metric for an Indiana Jones movie?
What is I'm curious how even would have.
I'll say all those videos.
OK, which one is a good movie, but not a good Spider-Man movie.
I'm like, what? Oh, well, I guess it's easier to I guess it's easier to ask.
Which one do you think is the worst, the Temple of Doom or the Shia LaBeouf one?
Fucking I. Is that a question?
Temple of Doom is, of course, way better.
I didn't realize that we are crystal skull is like, oh, I agree.
I agree. But I'm still I've still heard people maintain
that the Temple of Doom is the worst.
I've heard that the Temple of Doom is offensive.
I've heard a lot of people comment on how it's offensive.
Um, I could understand if people think it's the worst of the three,
but that's like saying it's better to say it's just it's the least excellent of the three.
Yeah, it's like saying Revenge of the Jedi is the worst of the three.
That doesn't take away from the fact that it's still a great film.
By the way, I'm realizing now that the Monty Python I've seen a lot of
because like I know that I've seen a lot of it.
I just like don't really register how I've seen it.
I'm realizing I've seen like a lot of just like out of context stuff.
On the Internet, because you lied to all of us on our audience.
OK, yes, you've lost your your reputation.
It went from zero to negative one now.
That's all right. All I have to do is appear on if happen
and then it comes back as well as the other two Lord of the Rings films.
It'll get you easy points with Wolf. I swear.
That's a good point.
What are we having that arrival today?
I'm actually I'm hoping to plan out for the next day, honestly.
Oh, OK, let's do that.
We'll talk about it in post now that instead of like now I watch
the Lord of the Rings, it won't be like, yeah, you've watched it.
I'll be like, you've about fucking time.
That's still better than not watching it.
All right. You're one step closer to being normal.
Yeah, it won't have like gamey points.
It'll just be like I stopped leaking points out.
We are plugging the point hole.
Look, guys, I think I'm plugging the point hole.
You guys need to be schooled.
OK, Spider-Man 3 was smarter than you thought it was.
You ready for this? Oh, God, this is a big blue screen.
It is. Oh, that is a brown table.
There was once the yellowy.
Then there was this.
Just for, yeah, so actually,
has everyone seen these movies here?
Yes, yes, not a long time, but I've seen them.
Me and Rags are probably the most up to date on them
because we watched them like, I want to say four months ago, something like that.
Yeah, we watched all three of them basically back to back.
So this one was good.
Two was great. Three was wolf.
It was awful.
It was this is three, right?
This is two. This is three.
Oh, the trains that he's fighting, Doc Ock.
Four months ago, you say something like that.
I can't remember.
I watched Spider-Man 3 at Christmas, so.
So what? I guess I'm I guess I'm up to date with Christmas.
I know. It was the first time I saw it.
January, February, March, April.
May, June.
It's not there yet.
Not yet. August.
September, October, November, December.
Then you turn around.
2020.
Yo, Trump for four more years.
Anyway.
And then there was this.
Oh, no. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's a playboy.
People, what I've seen happening with this scene
is what's happened with the prequels.
It seems like a lot of people are now like unironically being like,
this is this was cool, though, if you look at it from,
you know, like a fun, silly way.
And I mean, if you're if you're a pathetic soy boy
who doesn't know anything about women or social interactions,
then I'm sure you think this is really cool.
How could you write? It's so stylish.
I'm sure the women's reaction outside and you're thinking they're into it.
Look, she's into it. Spider-Man 3.
Is that why you haven't seen all those movies?
Because you've been too busy with women.
Brags? Yeah, definitely.
Hell, yeah. Oh, I mean, Jay.
Oh, Jay, sorry.
Jay, do you want to feel that way?
Oh, you know, allow you to believe that they tell you.
I'm not a woman.
What is fuck movies?
Women are way better than doesn't count, Jay.
That's why they put so many women to make that joke.
And then I was like, oh, and now bring whatsoever.
I love videos that use emojis to make their points.
I just feel like that communicates to me as a general.
Emojis are for communicating an emotion to you.
Is that so bad?
An emojin.
Why do you hate him?
You robot.
I like that he put his watermark at the corner
as though he thinks anyone would steal this video.
So we're dealing it right now.
We are stealing. Yeah.
The title and you're thinking, what do you mean?
Spider-Man 3 was absolute.
It was. It was terrible.
In my opinion, but to say it's actually smarter than one realizes
is saying a lot.
Billy, do you like Spider-Man 3?
Oh, no.
The Topher Grace should have never been venom.
Oh, I thought I thought maybe I thought maybe you would like Spider-Man 3
because Peter Parker turns into Onision and.
You know, I think it's right.
It's smarter than it had any right to be.
It comes from a movie that has an actual dance number.
Now take on this. Oh, no.
This is like bringing back all the nightmares I had of this awful movie.
This is the thing, I think, like, correct me if I'm wrong, Rags,
but we thought it was bad.
Then we rewatched it and we were like, holy fuck, this was.
Oh, it was. Oh, man.
It's awful.
This movie's terrible.
When we looked at this and we were picking it apart.
Jesus Christ in a handbasket.
It was some serious cinematic embarrassment.
Wasn't he supposed to be like cringy because he's like overly feeling himself
because the suit gives him the symbiotic suit every day?
The suit was to make it so that you like would take some risks
and have lesser morals, not become what the hell out of that.
What even is this?
Because because he's a goof boy that never gets out of his comfort zone.
And when he does get out of his comfort zone, it's super cringy.
But if you look at, like, Roosh V and all the pickup artists,
they're this level of cringy, like they all think they're super fucking woke
because they know girls fall to certain predatory tactics
and they get this boost of confidence.
This is the exact thing of pickup artists goods.
Yeah, because they don't. Sure.
I sure do like they're not even good at getting like people to sleep with them.
They just try a lot.
And then sometimes it's a numbers game.
Yeah. So you find the one girl that was down to fuck anything anyway.
You go through ninety nine women.
They're like, oh, this is terrible.
And the one girl looks like, hey, terrible.
Yeah. So I said, oh, I'm on your asshole.
So like people think that it's like, well, this is what Toby thinks is being cool.
I'm like, I don't think that it was a mental.
It's not like Toby.
It's it's what it's what Peter Parker would think was cool because he's all right.
Yeah. Yeah. But imagine if Toby McGuire did this on like a daily basis.
No, the best thing about the wire.
Do you know about Toby McGuire and his Hollywood history?
Like he's one of the biggest scumbags in Hollywood.
Really? Oh, OK.
So there's this amazing.
It's amazing. Like there's this movie that came out.
Aaron Sorkin wrote.
It was called Molly's Game.
And Michael Cera plays a character in the movie that's like a fucking sociopath.
And it's all based on true life like Toby McGuire.
It's it's it's it's an he's he's like a fucking sicko.
They're like this is what it's a poker game.
But the character is playing like how he messes with people's minds
and manipulates them like he crushes them at more than poker and he like gets off on it.
And it's all based on Toby McGuire in real life.
Someone in the chat called him bully McGuire.
Yeah, the real bully boy.
That's kind of what I would have gotten from it's like, oh, he's going to be more of a dick now.
And you see, like, just change the waste piece was like this whole dancing down the street.
I was like, is that it's like, oh, the venom stuff's pretty embarrassing.
Right. It was like, yeah, what a dick.
Yeah, you're it's like you smug, I guess.
So I could imagine H Pomeco doing that.
Oh, definitely.
Joe Dan's number.
Now dig on this.
It's not even just the editing as well.
And it's like that they they show the crowd as if the crowd is like, this is so fucking cool.
Yeah, which does make you think it's what it's what it gets to me.
It starts when you think like maybe they weren't self aware about this.
They thought it was working at the time.
I don't know.
But it's pretty weak acting from James Franco.
And he's usually so bombastic.
So it's my father raising from the can we can we take a moment to point out
that if your facial hair looks like that, fucking take it off.
Oh, yeah.
This is coming, Pete.
I never felt better.
How's the pie?
I actually like that.
Yeah, it's really good because he says that right after he.
He says it that way for.
Yeah, he tells Peter that he's dating MJ now or something like.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's really good.
Yeah, it's like a it's like the smuggest reaction ever.
And I love it.
Yeah, there could be great scenes in terrible movies, right?
Well, I mean, it was it was two words, but it's it's a good squeeze.
Did they squeezed it in there?
He's using his example of like wooden acting, I guess I would be like, no,
that's that's the reason it was great.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you know, yeah, you can't even do your own video.
We're doing your video better than you're doing.
He's telling us it's genius.
So we'll give him a chance.
Now for Spider-Man three, we have to look back at its past.
The back at it.
Spider-Man was a good movie, especially after the pretty good start
to the X-Men franchise in 2000.
OK, Spider-Man came two years after and absolutely dominated,
showing off a colorful, fresh side to superhero movies.
Then Spider-Man 2 premiered and it was flat out amazing.
Oh, he did the tonal thing.
This is what Spider-Man does.
I like that he's just said those things.
If they matter of fact, it's like just like what are amazing?
And I'm like, well, yeah, OK, OK, don't go into it.
Just say that.
I actually remember watching it in theaters.
It became one of the best superhero movies ever.
The thing that had a hand in destroying Spider-Man three unintentionally
was Batman Begins. Huh?
Oh, so Batman.
We see Mallard movie is the reason why Spider-Man three was bad.
And I watch this film.
We were constantly saying, well, of course it's terrible.
After all, Batman Begins is such and such and such reason.
And they're like, oh, yeah, yeah.
So he's saying Batman Begins raised the bar too high.
I don't think it's going to be about that.
I think it's going to be about the tone, probably.
OK, you can't blame Batman Begins for Spider-Man three
when they had Spider-Man two.
Well, I don't know. Right.
I don't like the idea that people refer to Spider-Man two as goofy.
Whatever. It's like, no, a film gets really serious in many.
Oh, it's great.
Yeah, it is.
It's good to be impostor.
Well, sure, but Batman can be goofy in parts
and they'll be self-aware about it.
Like, how do you know that name?
Yeah, like the super goofy.
Or do the best one is a Dr.
Iceberg. He goes, you don't want to give it to another generation.
I hated Batman versus Superman, but my mom's name is Martha.
So it's canon that I'm also a superhero.
I guess. How did you know that?
Spider-Man three intentionally was Batman Begins,
a movie that shattered the superhero movie genre.
Why do you zoom in on Batman's crotch?
No, you know why.
Earth, the dynamic duo news are real.
Oh, no, no, no, that's just a bad poll.
He wanted to do a transition, I guess.
Robin's a catamite and everybody knows it.
Swear to him.
Down to Earth, hardcore tone.
News are really dark, gritty reboot.
OK, Spider-Man three came along and it felt like the previous two movies.
It didn't know.
I don't I don't agree that Spider-Man three feels like Spider-Man one and two,
but I mean, how do you even quantify that?
This is the thing me and Rags watched them one by one.
It wasn't like we went, oh, wow, this is all the exact same thing,
except now we don't like them because of how superhero movies are gritty or something.
Yeah, I I can't really remember much about Batman Begins.
It's been so long.
It's just like an image here and there.
So when we watched these movies, we were just pointing out
all of the awfulness in Spider-Man three.
Like it was like a film.
It was like a film from Bizarro World.
And it's not like our argument for it being bad is that one scene where he dances.
It's like, no, it goes way beyond that.
Talking about all the villains, what Spider-Man is doing in that film.
Fucking acting is for sure a thing that's weird is going on.
If you're going to shoehorn Venom into the film, like cast him correctly.
Right.
To really the way they resolve Sandman, he's just like, I don't know, fighting mobile.
Sandman, I think I think was what I brought up is Sandman starts to cry at the end.
I'm like, how is it?
He melting himself with crying.
There's my face.
Was the director.
Well, and tears.
Spider-Man three.
And another thing that hurt and milk was the director,
who, while a fantastic director, ceded it to the loud, obnoxious fanboys everywhere.
But he wanted Venom.
He gave them Venom.
I don't think. No, they didn't.
He didn't. He gave them.
He told them McGuire would have made a better Spider-Man.
I could have sworn he was forced.
They thought the story was that he didn't want Venom at all.
And then he had to like he was forced to.
Yeah, he was forced in.
Right. That's what he's saying.
He's he gave into the fans, but he gave into.
I don't remember it being the studio.
Yeah, the studio studio.
The studio was saying the fans want the venom.
So let's give them venom.
They're clamoring for venom.
Let's put it, put them in there.
And Sam Raimi's like, OK, you're going to fuck over my movie.
I'm going to fuck it over by casting real life Peter Parker
and Donna from that 70s show is Mary Jane Watson.
What's that? But even if you took Venom out, there's still so much.
It's not. Yeah, it's not just Venom.
Like even the whole story gets cut into when you have to write him in.
Right. Yeah.
Noxious as as a writer.
Studio demanded them.
Yeah. As far as I know, that's that.
I wouldn't call it giving, giving up or giving in.
I think that's a bit fanboys everywhere.
They wanted venom.
He gave them venom.
Now, Spider-Man three became this mess that we have now.
And there's no denying that it has its problems.
But it truly is.
Good thing I found you in this alley.
I think it's true.
I think I'm curious how he's going to argue.
Just got something going for it.
And then it's smarter than I think, you know,
every point he's made so far, like you guys have made better, right?
Like, that's the well, that is impressive.
Yeah. Every couple of people said it's not hobgoblin.
It's green goblin. No.
Willem Dafoe is green goblin.
Fucking discount green goblin could be called hobgoblin.
I don't care.
No, no, because that's totally different characters, right?
This is green goblin, too. Isn't that what?
Oh, well, I don't think they actually give him an official name in the movie,
but I'm pretty sure in the comics, his son was supposed to be hobgoblin.
So they probably complain that he's not the real goblin.
Harry. Yeah.
What's something called goblin, Harry?
Wait, he's actually called new goblin.
You kidding? What?
New goblins. The twist villain name.
It's smarter than you think, because they refer to hobgoblin or green goblin as new goblin.
Look at that. That is that is.
Get it, because he's the new goblin.
And the other one was goblin.
No, they should have called Kylo.
They should have called Kylo Ren new Darth Vader.
His gay lover is called Knobgoblin, Bilbo.
There is. Yeah, I'm happy to concede.
I'm probably wrong because I it's not like I read the comics.
I'm just saying he's not green goblin at the very least.
It'll be confusing if we call him that new goblin.
It is. Anyway, let's find out how we've all got goblin hobgoblins.
Then you think cock goblin.
No, no, wait. Knobgoblin, right?
That would be a knobgoblin. Yeah, that's it. My bad.
He's the Robin of the goblin dynamic duo.
He's like, Dad, do I have to be knobgoblin?
He's like, yes.
Well, I'm the first time taking your globally.
Yeah, yeah.
Huge gripe that people have with Spider-Man three
is that Topher Grace was cast as Eddie Brock or Venom.
Instead of being this huge hulking guy from the comics,
he became this scrawny little guy who was none.
Instead of being what's cool about this.
What's cool about this terrible decision is what's cool about this.
They didn't have to buy him first class tickets to fly him to the set.
They they put him in coach because he's so compact and tiny.
Maybe he was just to carry on for another more famous, more talented actor.
Maybe you know, you subvert expectations.
I don't know. It's cool about this, even though they could have done it better.
Is that Eddie Brock is almost like an evil Peter Parker.
Think about it. He's a skinny dude.
Yeah, that's the idea, sort of.
Yeah. Oh, the bugle.
But he's an asshole.
Any self-centered, hey, or is it? Or is he?
Or is he? Yeah, that's the kind of shit I put in my April Fool stuff.
Just what I think I know.
The answer is you start asking stupid fucking questions.
Or do you? Oh, I cheat the system to get ahead.
But am I really a bad person?
I want a staff job, sir.
I have a girl that I intend to know after watching whiplash.
I can't look at J.
It's not expect him to start punching people.
Were you using them verbally, you dragging?
It's not my tempo.
That movie is miles teller.
I kind of want to watch it again.
I really love that move.
Well, you'll get further on there.
There's no Mars bar.
And I have this stupid little dream.
This is front page stuff.
OK, I've got to practice.
I'll see you later. How about tonight?
Not tonight.
Why not? Oh, wow.
Amazing night.
Yeah, this is much better than I remember it.
Also, I so weird because she I associate her entirely with the Jurassic World.
Jurassic Park. Yeah.
This is just oh, my God.
That's her. Yep, that's her.
Oh, no.
Dinosaur was her dad directed Han Solo film, right?
Is she in any good movies?
Spider-Man 3, apparently.
The movie almost makes it seem like Peter's the bad guy.
Yeah. Have you guys noticed?
We're nearly halfway through and I haven't heard one argument yet.
He's about to make his first argument, I think.
It's like, wow.
Well, here's the thing.
It's like, man, what a.
Out of these videos, though, just keep people feeling like
just keep people like he's saying things being said so it's relevant
until the video and they feel like they can leave.
And then people watch it and they're like, I enjoyed that, I think.
He still fucked it up because it's less than 10 minutes.
He fucked up. Oh, wow.
I'm going to get over 10 minutes, Jesus.
I'm caring about his relationship with Mary Jane at all, making him
the stupidest boyfriend ever. Yeah.
Yeah, we that part of the movie is really fucking bad, too.
Like, yeah, it's the way they do it.
You're like, why is Peter literally the worst piece of shit on the planet right now?
It makes no sense.
He just spoke to him, by the way.
It's like. All right.
And it's like this is the the moment that they met.
It's kind of weird that he's just there's so much about it.
It's like, why? It's like the movies like, yeah, but he's being a bad man.
And you're like, yeah, I got that.
Thanks. Gillette told me that approaching women in any capacity
is a terrible moral act.
What would a man bet?
Spider Man 3 is the response to Gillette.
This someone adds to your care for Eddie Brock as a character.
You can tell that this is a man who has fallen to the lowest of lows
and had to cheat his way to the top.
Oh, that if you have to cheat your way to the top, you're a bad person.
And that's what cheating is, right?
Like, yeah, it's circumventing the rules of fair play to get what you want.
That's not a positive trait.
I don't know how is it?
We do. Well, this guy's a guy with him, you know,
he uses clickbait in eight minute videos to prove a point.
So he thinks that cheating is OK.
I'm curious what the grand thing is here.
Is he actually trying to argue the venom was a really well written villain?
It's like he really wants to take that position.
Interesting. OK, I'm begging you.
If you do this, I will lose everything.
Oh, you shouldn't have cheated.
There's not a paper in town.
There's no I love.
I love that part of the film.
It's not it's like you murder someone.
You're like, don't tell anybody.
I'll go to jail. You're like, yeah, that's how it works.
Like, it's like, yeah, I don't want you hired at those other newspapers
because you'll fucking literally shit.
And it's like he's like, yeah, you know, like, you know, please take pity.
You're like, no, no, you've decided to sell false information to a newspaper.
Are you stupid thought of that earlier?
Yeah, there you go.
Well, you really do see in the movies, the good and bad in every person.
We have the good side of Peter Parker.
We were pretty good in the backyard.
And we tried out for the varsity team for the cheerleader.
They're being kind to each other.
This means that we saw the goodness of them.
It is right.
And it's bad side.
We also have Harry's.
I wouldn't reference the fact he's trying to defeat a villain as his bad side.
They love those special effects.
Bad side. He's got amnesia.
I got your specific.
I know that face in your face.
And when I made that face, I want to see you.
If you want Peter to live, you're going to do something for me.
We also have Eddie Brock's good and bad sides when he's normal
and when he's venom the point of the movie.
But he's a bad guy when he's normal.
You just said that.
Yeah, he's bad both.
He's a bad person.
His character is that he's a bad person here.
Look at his teeth.
No, he's about revenge and forgiveness.
Uncle Ben meant the world to us, but he wouldn't want us living one second
with revenge in our hearts.
I'm happy to concede the movie wants to be about revenge and forgiveness.
Maybe that was the least thing about it.
It's very unearned and strangely put together.
Something I noticed as a pattern is a lot of videos that are like,
oh, here's what this movie is actually really good.
They just list the things that the movie is trying to do.
Yeah.
Without telling you whether or not they achieved it.
It's like, look, it's clearly trying to do this.
Therefore, it's good.
Regardless of how nonsensical the execution is.
Oh, yeah, but they tried to do this.
This was the goal.
I was like, yeah, to impress a channel like this, you've literally just got to
like stand up in front of a camera and be like, this movie is about this.
And what it means is this.
And then I'll go, oh, that's really interesting,
because it is about this and it means this.
But that makes sense when we're living in the participation trophy generation.
So all these all these kids are like, well, you know, actually,
they tried.
So let's give them a gold star.
Let's give it to the patient, a trophy.
I never got them.
I didn't have them.
Yeah, you were that bad.
They wouldn't even give you a participation.
I was just trying to forget you were there.
She's like, I got to say they were like, did you did you, though?
Hmm.
I said, I'm going for it. Hmm.
Hmm.
It's like a poison.
It can. It can take you over.
Hey, just like what's happening to Venom.
I get it.
That means the theme is consistent.
The movie is great.
Clever.
It's like it's like a black spacesuit from from from outer space
and it gets on you and you can't take it off.
And it's weird, but it's kind of like that.
Wait, wait, Bay, what are you talking about?
She goes, oh, you know, revenge.
Oh, you know, revenge.
It's like a black spacesuit from the beyond that latches on to you
and you can't take it off.
You know, it turned us into something ugly.
People have two sides.
The good and evil side.
Oh, shut up. You fucking faggot with your list.
People have that.
Yeah, no fucking shit.
I mean, is that is that true, though?
I think that's really simplistic.
And actually, I'm not a fan of the ideas.
Like people have two sides, the good and bad.
I'm like, yeah,
some people are just really awful, terrible people can be impulsive.
And I don't know.
Yeah, it's just like, are we going anywhere else with that?
Remember the second one's theme or whatever you call it
was Peter choosing between the life of Spider-Man, the life of Peter Parker.
That was the yin yang or the opposites, which is it makes a lot more sense to me.
Like he has to adopt a hero personality that can get in the way of his normal life.
The idea of just like everyone is good and bad.
And you're like, yeah, well, around table here is trying to.
He says this like it's news to the audience.
Well, like, you know, that people can be good and bad.
Did you know, does anybody else know?
It's like he discovered this when he was watching the last movie
to talk about something like that is Spider-Man 3, let's be honest.
Oh, yeah.
All right. Does Topher Grace good and bad?
Anyone can be corrupted by negativity and hatred.
Another important topic is how public perception frames these characters.
Well, Spider-Man might seem like a grandiose superhero.
This is absurdly zoomed in, I just realized.
Probably get a copyright.
Yeah, I'm fine.
Well, he better make some amazing fucking stellar argument in the next.
How long has he got?
Two minutes, because I love this move.
People love this stupid fucking video.
Well, it's rated insanely highly.
And I'm like, how the fuck do people like people will just consume
whatever shit they hear?
The guy is for reference.
I'll put it on the screen in a sec.
But that's the that's the frame.
Did this video this video come out after Stanley died?
Oh, man, that is really I'm not sure.
Before that's that's massive.
Yeah, that's that's what it's supposed to be.
And this is how far he zoomed in.
Jesus Christ, I probably used to avoid copyright, actually.
Yeah, you can't blame someone.
I can't blame him for that.
I mean, you you can just flip the footage and keep it under.
It's just there's lots else.
A lot of things you could do.
I don't know.
Yeah, OK, anyway, I was going to say he's got very limited time
to make an argument and he's probably got a plug at the end to shitty video.
Don't forget these characters.
Well, Spider-Man might seem like a grandiose superhero.
He's just a guy from Queens who still can't believe what's happening to him.
Sam, why is this news?
Who thinks this is new?
He's just a normal guy who goes to the bus.
He's explaining the characters have more than one thing going on in their lives.
Oh, my God. Yeah, it's cool that we get that normal guy story
in the third movie of a fucking trilogy, right?
Like by the third movie, we really want more of that normal guy story.
I don't think there's a Spider-Man story that doesn't have that a part of it.
The fact that that's him.
That's Spider-Man like Spider-Man has powers akin to an arachnid spider.
Yeah, that's sort of his thing.
Many people are afraid of spiders.
Did you know that?
Wow. Did you know that my spiders are smarter than you think?
He's just a guy.
You can see into the future.
I from Queens still can't believe what's happening to him.
Sandman is pegged as a monster, but he's really just a man trying to save his daughter.
Bullshit. That's the most basic take you could ever have.
Like that's the that's the thing that that's what the film says.
The film is like, oh, he's trying to feed his kid and he's going around.
He's trying to murder cops and he's being violent.
Any fucking villain like, oh, people say the Joker's a monster,
but he's actually just trying to send a message about society.
Yeah, like just Walter White has cancer and his son can't walk.
Thanos isn't a monster.
He's just trying to save lives.
Well, that's true. That's true.
But like these are all technically true.
It's just really boring.
Like just swallowing the obvious thing the film's trying to say.
But the ex it's like it doesn't matter how poorly it was executed.
It doesn't matter how nonsensical it is.
It doesn't matter anything that actually happens in the film.
What it's trying to do is this, and therefore it's good.
Public perception plays a huge factor in molding.
I left the chat, saw me muted for three seconds and was like, oh,
we'll go in to get another pizza spiderman because alienated after
a supposed image from the Daily Bugle shows him stealing music.
It's emotional.
How do you get into this, guys?
He's getting to the emotional heart of the character is a monster,
but he's really just a man trying to save his daughter.
Public perception is killing people, molding what characters will become.
Spiderman becomes alienated after a supposed image from the Daily Bugle show.
Look at this zooming like what the you can't even tell what that says.
I either man owes his colors.
I demand throws the colors.
This is fucked up.
I just want to know who I the man is.
He's like a hero based on either.
You think what?
It's obviously cut off from cider man.
So he turns he turns apples into delicious alcoholic beverages.
Cider man, he feeds the colored folk.
Yeah, it's like this is a controversial video.
Fuck knows I'm stealing money from a bank.
This is people were voted by any exception changes to one of disgust.
Mary Jane is a spotlight taken away from her after her name is removed from her play.
These are things that happen in the film.
You're right.
Yeah, these characters have a bad thing happen to them
and it changes the way someone looks at them. Sure.
And there basically is no more public perception for her
as she is now no longer famous.
That's not how fame works.
I mean, she would have remained famous, at least to a degree, even if she was.
Don't get your name taken off something and then everyone immediately forgets who you are.
I literally only know of three people and those three people are determined
by the names that are written on literally
five people and the fucking Mary Jane.
They're all people I have no capacity for long term memory.
Yeah, after I watched Terminator 2, I just completely forgot
who Arnold Schwarzenegger was because I didn't see his name written on things.
I'm sorry. Who are you talking about? I don't know.
I'll never forget.
Game is removed from her play.
Rest in spaghetti is no more public perception for her
as she is now no longer famous.
Let's not. She's now just another person walking.
She's just another.
She was always just another person.
She instantly became just another person. OK.
If you're an actor, you're not just another person.
Simpletism.
Now, she's just another worthless ginger.
Disgusting peon.
That's what she is now.
Nothing.
She's just like the rest of you disgusting people.
Oh, back to forgiveness and revenge.
Almost every character wants revenge on another.
Peter wants revenge on Flint for killing his uncle.
Harry wants, which, by the way, was like a retcon.
They were like, he's the one who did it.
You're like, I thought it was. Yeah. OK.
All right, fine.
Revenge on Peter totally forgot about that.
Pointing out that he wants revenge on Peter for killing his. Yes.
Just because everyone wants to get revenge doesn't mean it's good.
Come on. Here's what Flint wants to film.
That means it's good.
They flim once revenge on Peter for not letting him save his daughter.
And he wants revenge on Peter for not letting him save his daughter.
I don't think his daughter dies in this movie.
Does he just mean in general that he's annoyed that he won't let him save him?
I want you just let me break the law.
All he has to do is go to a different city and steal.
Spider-Man operates in this city.
He's just like move out of it. You'll be fine.
I had to kill those cops.
They look to me funny.
Trying to kill him. I love my daughter to get revenge on.
Guess who? Peter for taking away everything he had.
Yeah, Peter is not remotely sympathetic.
It's like he shot himself in the head and complained that Peter didn't get in the way.
What if his eyes is slightly off center
and that's really putting me off every time? Yeah.
Because he's just not looking at the exact same direction.
What's there? Also, what's over there?
Useful thing. You can see more.
These characters have a choice.
Like you said, I can't take him seriously or let revenge take over.
All of them forgive, except this is the most basic.
Oh, my God.
It's like one of the one of the I've ever seen in my life.
All of them see a book abroad.
And revenge ends up destroying him.
No, the pumpkin bomb ends up destroying.
Yeah, the pumpkin bombs.
To be fair, this movie has its bad moments.
I thought the dance routine was fine.
Spiderman three is still pretty awful at times.
Holy. Oh, there are six minutes here.
I thought this was genius.
I mean, yeah, you can still be genius while being pretty awful at times.
Wolf, geez. Oh, right.
I forgot a video that it's so empty and vapid and it doesn't make any points.
And it's just so basic.
And people literally just, you know, people always say that
we are the ones that just recount the plot, but at least we say something about it.
What what is this guy said about everyone wanted revenge?
Are you guys missing this? It's genius.
Oh, great. You understood like the very basic theme of the film
that the film literally told you revenge killed.
OK, revenge killed him.
Like Aunt May's like revenge is bad.
And this guy's like, the movie is trying to tell us that revenge is bad.
People actually posted a pumpkin jack-o'-lantern bomb in chat.
It's like a wackier version of raindrops keep falling on my head from Spider-Man 2.
It fit all right into the Spider-Man trilogy.
Now, one gripe that people also have is the movie's three endings.
Viewers complain that this could have been an ending in this.
This is crying.
This is love is crying.
Spider-Man swings at the end.
Now, if you're saying this, you haven't been paying attention.
Oh, I love it when people say that.
It's all coming together.
He's I feel like he's been paying too much attention.
Any flaw, he's like, no, it's actually genius.
You just need to think about it more.
This is the end of the conflict.
The resolution.
The resolution also continues in this scene.
One could argue that this is the end of the conflict of the resolution.
But this is also the resolution.
OK, this is a type of afterward from the author.
The author being Peter, who also started the movie
with a forward and lastly, this is the epilogue.
Don't usually the after what is happening right now.
No, no, it's not the epilogue.
It's in. Thanks for telling us the progression of the scenes
and then not saying anything about it.
All he told us was the order, the period.
Really, it's like, all right.
Tell us what does this say?
Tell us what we were paying.
We weren't paying attention to.
Also started the movie with a forward.
And lastly, God told us more cogent than this.
He just starts all of the movies with like a, you know, he's like, who am I?
You really want to know?
I am Spider-Man at the end.
He said something to us like, yeah, that's that's how they all go.
I guess him not swinging is pizza.
This is the epilogue, though.
Usually the afterward comes after the epilogue.
This scene is devastatingly important.
Devastating devastatingly important.
What's so devastating?
It's so important that I'm fucks.
Without this, without this scene, Mary Jane's impending rape would make no sense.
Is that the after credits scene?
Yeah, with the after credits, guys.
Not Bob when he reams indoor.
Oh, God, I couldn't call myself a rape goblin.
There's just bad optics.
I couldn't call myself.
I'd like to sing on stage for the rest of my life with you once you get hungry.
So she was doing.
What if people throw the pizza right now?
Yeah, you have to go to the bathroom.
But you get it, though.
At the beginning, she said she'd like to be on stage for the rest of life.
And at the end, she's on stage, even though she's lost her big job.
Get it? You get it?
You get it? Yeah, that's why it's genius.
You didn't you didn't know that.
You didn't think about it.
I didn't. I didn't.
I didn't know the scenes that were in the film.
Nope.
I'll be there.
See, I'll be there.
See, he said I'll be there.
And then he was that if that is genius.
Oh, the fuck is.
That's so fucking brilliant.
How a character says he'll do something.
And then he does it something as simple as go to a fucking address and walk inside.
It's meaningful.
It's so masterful.
What a fucking masterpiece of a film.
So I will arrive at this location later.
See, I have arrived.
Are they like?
No, I mean, I can have really piss pulled.
Yeah, that's a little bit.
Their relationship is like in ruins at the end of Spider-Man 3 anyway.
Right. As far as I remember, because it's like they dealt with the whole fake breakup.
He was being an asshole.
He also kind of daily kind of cheats on here and then also help God.
Knob goblins already died, but she was kind of dating him.
And he turned into like this loads of baggage.
I don't know.
Oh, oh, thank you.
Oh, my God.
You use footage from fighter guns.
You were talking about.
OK, I forgot about the footage from Batman Begins.
Did he have? Oh, yeah, he did.
You're right.
I, you know, whenever someone does this, I'm always like, did they get all of them?
Did I feel like they didn't?
Because what a worthless film.
The table in the icon is already worth this video.
Yeah, it's not brown at all.
It's orange.
You know, what a worthless video this was.
How many subs does this guy have and how many likes?
It's like this is disappointing as shit.
Well, it's up to me because there's so many people out there who put so much work
into videos and they get like no, no, nothing for it.
And then this guy's just like, yeah, he doesn't tell me about to say
it's the worst video we've covered.
Wolf, please, please don't know.
No, I'm not going to say it's the worst video we've covered.
It's like one of the most incoherent ones.
Definitely.
The top comment is Sam didn't cede any ground to the fans.
They forced the Sony forced him to have venom.
It's like, that's the first comment.
Really, you're really missing the point of this entire video.
And I'm actually making a video right now to show you how genius this video is.
This video, this video is literally confirmation bias.
The video for everyone that liked Spider-Man three.
Yeah, like you pull it up yourselves.
The second top comment.
Finally, someone makes a great video about this.
Everyone just likes to bash the movie by pointing out the dance scenes.
They don't mention that the symbiote was making Peter act this way.
We mentioned that.
Did anyone think that wasn't the case with viewing this film?
Yeah, I totally forgot about that part.
No wonder I didn't like it.
I just completely forgot about the entire plot.
They should have just had the rock play venom.
Yeah, I would have. I would have preferred.
Just give us the rock.
Take him out of fucking doom.
Remove Sandman.
It's so crap.
It's like my daughter's dying.
Also, I made of sand.
All right.
So someone in the chat said Spider-Man three is actually really good.
There are scenes in the film where themes occur.
Hey, I never thought about it like that.
Honestly, you've made me see Spider-Man three in a completely different way.
Now, perfect analysis.
Oh, what a different way.
Yeah, what he just told you what the scenes were.
Do you think if we like ask the people who liked that video,
like what they learned from it, they would be able to tell us even a single thing.
You'd probably be like, yeah, there's a theme of revenge or whatever.
And you're like, mm hmm.
Like, OK, yeah, the movie like literally explained that to you.
Yeah, almost the movie says revenge is bad, Peter.
Yeah, this is what people watched it.
People watched the video and they had already forgotten about Spider-Man three
because it never really mattered that much in the history of Spider-Man.
And they're like, oh, yeah, maybe that's not so bad.
And they don't have to go back and watch it.
So they just thumbs it up for not having to go back and watch a movie
to let you know it sucked.
They want this video in a minute.
This video just kind of explained what they're supposed to.
The film was trying to do.
And it didn't go into all of the places.
It failed miserably along the way.
And so people like, oh, OK, yeah, it must have been good.
Yeah. But I mean, yeah, people don't pretty pretty clickbait.
All right. It's more than you think. Yeah, like.
It's the inverse, it's like the inverse of Cosmonaut's title on it.
What was that, like, worse than you remember?
I think it was worse than you remember. Yeah.
I'm going through his thumbnails now, and he senses the word ass.
With an asterisk instead of one of the S's.
Do you know how dangerous that word can be?
As a tag, he censored the tag.
He's like he says it as with the middle S with an with like a star instead of the S.
Yeah, that could be another word that could be that could be abs.
He could be talking about abs.
Like my favorite thing is part of a rhyme.
It's glasses ass.
The writers said the symbiote is supposed to represent heroin.
All right. OK, that's great.
But next up, this is we I don't need to prove that WatchMojo is clickbait.
So we already know that.
But I thought this would be an interesting, like topic in general.
It's the top 10 worst fanservice moments in movies.
And then we can also talk about how WatchMojo sucks.
But, you know, I don't know anything about that.
Have you covered them yet?
I think you have. Right, Jay?
I think I did on my fucking video.
Oh, shit. Yeah, yeah.
They actually did. Do you guys know that?
They left a comment on my video.
Like I called them out for like you having a title that did not describe
in any way the content of their video, like the things you missed in Captain
Marvel and the video was full of like it was full of 90s references.
I'm like, thanks. I definitely.
Oh, yeah. They yeah.
That was so subtle.
You probably missed it.
Crashed into that blockbuster.
I think they came and commented on my video like, oh, yeah,
WatchMojo is clearly running out of ideas with a cool dad.
Like, yeah, we can play along and make fun of ourselves, too.
And I'm like, that's nothing like what I said.
It's not that you don't have ideas.
It's that the ideas you have, you make them shit.
Like there's nothing wrong with the top 10 list as an idea.
And you could totally make a good video called Top 10,
like things you missed in Captain Marvel.
The thing is, they their version of it is terrible.
They should have a top 10 best moments of EFA.
Sorry, I've been angry about this for a while,
and I've not got a place to talk about it yet.
Well, that's the secret of YouTube, right from your channel.
Yeah, aside from that, I'm going to make a whole video on it.
But well, I mean, why are you picking on the little guy?
WatchMojo is just a struggling YouTube channel.
20 million subscribers as well.
And that is a mystery.
Well, that's not even a mystery.
They appeal to the lowest common denominator
and the dumbest motherfucker that watches that is like, oh, you know,
I actually noticed it was from the 90s, so I'm pretty smart.
Like this makes stupid people feel smart about themselves.
Oh, well, it's like it's literally it's literally an adult's blues clues
where Steve is like, blue, what is this?
What is this bread here?
Is there a meat in between the bread?
What could this be? And the kids are watching at home like, oh, that's sandwich,
Steve, that's sandwich.
And all these people are watching watchMojo like, oh, yeah, no, that's the 90s.
I saw a Nirvana.
I saw a Nine Inch Nails shirt.
Yeah, no, he's stupid.
He crashes into a blockbuster and Nick Fury has a pager.
Those things are on the 90s, guys.
Are you guys denying reality?
In the video, they use the pager as a separate point.
I'm sorry. That's like I am seven is the fact that Nick has a pager.
Like, did you know that Nick had a pager?
Like, yeah, because he calls it a pager.
And then Captain Marvel says, who are you paging?
Well, you may have missed it.
Dialogue in the film that was meant to be heard.
How could you miss it?
Like, if you got up from the theater and went to the bathroom, maybe you'd miss it.
So anyway, here we go.
This should be fun.
I did take a couple of bathroom breaks during Captain Marvel.
Luckily, I saw four times a piece of shit.
Yeah, Hollywood.
Nobody likes to try hard.
Welcome to WatchMojo. And today we're counting.
This is from Phoebe, by the way, guys.
Why are they just like publicly sourcing the narration now?
Is that what's going on?
They just let people just choose a rectum.
I'm Phoebe. I walked in and I'm lost.
Someone even let me leave until I tell you 13 things
you didn't know about the left side of cabbage.
They didn't. Can we have a Twitter link with the Twitter handle?
Can we get a Tommy Wiseau narration?
Welcome to the top.
Oh, my God. No, wait.
An Alex Jones narration.
And the video can be like top 10.
Yeah, top 10 moments of government revealed itself to be a lizard empire.
The lizard people are being controlled by the clockwork elves.
God damn bill to the birds.
Down our picks for the top 10 worst fan service moments in franchise movies.
Before we begin, we publish new content every day.
So be sure to subscribe to our channel every day.
Yeah, but and ring the bell to get the last Jedi.
Doesn't that make you angry?
No, I love Jedi.
Don't don't you guys get a rationally angry whenever you see that in place?
It's there. Get angry.
Well, if I don't get a rationally angry when you ever see much watch Mojo.
Mm hmm. Yeah, I just did that already.
You said much.
Well, Joe, I've already got my anger out. It's OK.
I get a rationally angry when people in their sentences and prepositions,
but I hide it really well.
I disagree with that.
Also, yeah, it's an interesting fan I just saw on Twitter.
We will. I will show it by Beowyn.
Yes, and it's I'm just you know, this is the best compliment I can give for it.
I was actually about to look at it and be like, oh, this this wasn't made
for a fab because it's too good.
That was like, oh, my God, it is, but it is by Beowyn.
Yes. Yeah, you'll do the best start.
And about our latest videos for this list,
we're looking at the worst attempts at fanservice or Easter eggs in film
attempts at fanservice and Easter eggs.
That's OK.
As needless.
Please, like when they answered to the 90s and the captain and gratuitous.
You know, the bad question is to get an ID.
Yeah, I think it's just tapes for sitting in the 90s.
Look, she's got a way to tell Megan Fox long fingers.
What? She has long fingers, but she has she does have freakishly long fingers.
If you like, I wonder if she's a witch, hold on.
I'm going to find you a picture because because I was I didn't notice this before.
But someone I don't remember who pointed it out.
But once I noticed it, I couldn't stop noticing it.
If there's anything you take away from the day, it's that Tobey Maguire
is a sociopath and Megan Fox has butt poke fingers.
They're crazy if you can.
If you find it, I'll throw it up on screen then.
Yeah, I'm trying to find a good picture, but she's like doing
all these weird poses with her fingers.
Everyone's saying she has toe thumbs.
What does she does?
That means the the upper part.
Yeah, the upper part of her thumb is very small.
Yeah, that means in past life, she like killed and ate a baby.
She was resurrected.
That's the toe thumb right there.
Oh, that is a toe. Oh, wow.
But I think that on one of her feet instead of a toe,
she has got the thumb like they're swapped around.
I'm willing to die.
And it's like a whole chain of different body parts.
Like on her on her toe, it's like an ankle.
And I hope her grip.
She's like how she could grip things with her feet like penises.
OK, let's go on.
Yeah, I mean, she might be the villain for the the knob goblin in his own.
I think it actually makes your match.
Knob goblin.
Yeah, I think it might have just been the thing.
May as well.
I can't find any pictures of the fingers.
Wolf Racks, check that shit out.
Oh, I'm Jay, I guess.
What?
This word is when the.
No way.
Look how good that is.
Is that at least you are not wet.
I'm not a plumber.
Revenge is mine.
Oh, my.
Who's doing that?
Oh, right.
Bill and his house, he's got a total like
he's got a little medallion hanging off his mouth.
Yeah, that's a toe.
Is that a toner tonal like Wilson Bowl?
Is that. Oh, my God, it is.
Yeah. So yeah, when you're fat, I guess that's that's the idea
is that she drew the froggled the froggy's revenge is.
Did you just miss gender bail in?
Oh, sorry.
I it's it sounds like a.
How dare you?
Is they when a lady or a.
They only do.
Was that confirmed?
Yeah, I asked him.
Oh, OK.
All right, I bet.
What do you mean you asked him?
I mean, I went in the chat and I was like, are you a dude?
Because I don't want to like just say,
I don't want to say the wrong thing.
Sounds like masculine.
Does it?
I figure it does.
What would you what would you guess, Billy and Ben?
They win.
Does that sound like a guy name or a girl name?
Sounds like a nerd name.
It makes me think of like Beowulf or something.
See, that's the same for me, but a girl vision.
That's what I'm getting.
OK, Owen sounds like somebody who learned Elvis
just to say Thanos's lines from Avengers Endgame.
I'm going to leave them anyway back to Megan Fox's waste.
Of course.
Members are out of the running.
So listen, I was wondering if I could ride your home.
Give you a ride home in my clothes.
That's funny.
Transformers one isn't even terrible.
Rest are terrible.
This one's like the only one I've seen was Transformers one.
I thought it was terrible.
So I didn't watch it and watch.
Actually, I went to see Bumblebee because John Cena's in it.
Oh, that's probably what's.
Well, we'll be good.
Aowyn from the movie was good.
Yeah.
Poisoning my mind.
That's probably what it is.
Bumblebee wasn't great, but it wasn't bad.
It was a decent film.
I haven't seen it.
No. Number 10.
Shia LaBeowulf and service overload.
They actually get a day of each of these.
That's going to be funny.
It's just so unnecessary.
Terminator Genesis.
Fairness.
Terminator Genesis was like what?
Service while also mocking the movies.
I was about to say, she said attempting fanservice.
So I guess I could agree with that.
They attempted to do something like they tried.
Yeah, attempt to make a movie as good as succeeding, right?
A little bit of fanservice is perfectly fine and can be a ton of fun,
but a film should not be shoving callbacks into every other scene
rather than feeling like a logical continuation to the legendary franchise.
I mean, yeah, the whole movie, I guess you could argue, right?
Can you argue that for like two minute three as well?
Or is she going to? I don't know.
It's kind of arbitrary.
Terminator three still feels like it's trying to be its own thing.
But it's like a clone of Terminator two.
Like a bad clone.
It could be exactly.
There was even that one scene where John Connor was in the car
and he was like, don't you remember Asta LaVista, baby?
Don't have to teach you stuff all over again.
And you're like, oh, yeah, it's such a fan movie.
It's not like Genesis, which is good.
I've not seen Genesis.
This is the thing you'd be like.
Trailers have got every other line from the trailers is lifted
lifted from one of the originals.
The thing is, they go back to when those things happened.
You know, it's just like, is it fans or is it like they'd have to?
It would be bad if they didn't have it in some way.
You know, they recreate this scene, for example.
It's like they kind of have to if they want to be accurate.
Or is it fanservice?
People in the chat were saying Terminator Jared Genesis.
Oh, well, he might be terminated for all we know.
Oh, we know tits package.
Just with the tracks being replaced by inferior remixes.
That's an interesting point.
I was going to say, like, I'd happily concede they tried,
but this film is super insulting to anybody who's a fan of Timoneia.
Old man Arnold taking on the T-800 was entertaining enough to watch,
but there was no need for a non Robert Patrick version of the T-1000
to show up for a back.
Wow, she hates Asians.
Yeah, no diversity for the T-1000s, apparently.
Kyle Reese.
I mean, the T-1000 is the machine that it makes sense
to not be played by the same actor.
Uh, yeah, you're right.
The T-1000 show up and copy someone it meets.
But actually, no, Robert Patrick.
I'm pretty sure Robert Patrick arrives looking like Robert Patrick.
I swear that he meets a copy.
He does.
He punches a cop to death almost, but he doesn't look like him.
Oh, then nevermind.
But he does look like Sarah Connor at the end of the movie.
So he does the thing. He does morph.
So I'm totally OK with that.
But apparently the base model is Robert Patrick if you want to.
Oh, OK.
Is that in the films or is it just like law that's been written for?
I would just assume it goes the same for Arnie.
It's like they actually isn't it like the T-100 is in the first one,
then the T-101 is the updated Arnold.
And the idea that they all look like Arnie is in the films now.
Thing, but the T-1000s have been shown to all look the same.
I'd have to check.
I'm not up to date.
I don't know if it contradicts anything is what I'm I'm getting at.
Well, this is the thing.
I the T-1000 being here was just dumb.
The fact that he's an Asian dude is like, all right,
I guess he copied an Asian cop.
Why not?
Number nine, frenzy transformers.
Can you argue everything in transformers as it was?
Unless she's going to be more specific.
Michael Bay has perfected the art of gratuitous fan service.
But this entry has nothing to do with motorcycles or low cut shorts.
Arguably the best of the franchise.
The first transformers pays tribute to the cartoon sound wave
by introducing a new miniature deception called miniature deception.
Did she mean deception on miniature deception?
Oh, my God.
It was beautiful.
Unless she actually meant that he's deceiving people by being a boombox.
I mean, I mean, we can't assume that.
We cannot assume that.
Let's give her the biggest benefit of the doubt.
Listen to that again.
First transformers pays tribute to the cartoon sound wave
by introducing a new miniature deception called frenzy.
No, you're right. You're right.
It's just a fuck that up.
If you look at the one written down, it looks the same.
I can tell you, it looks similar enough.
Decepticon, a deception read.
Well, at this rate, it's literally just back over it.
You could be like, you have one fucking job to read the word
that we're on the script.
Yeah, here's the thing, right?
In fairness, though, deception is an extra letter.
Yeah, but yeah, it's just one extra C.
Yeah, it doesn't matter if you're doing a bit on Transformers fanservice
and you don't even understand the word Decepticon.
What the bad guys are called.
I'm not trying to excuse why.
I'm not trying to excuse like the fact that this is shit.
That's just like, I'm pretty sure that's why they made the mistake.
Oh, we know why.
That's why we know why.
Like when the only thing we know is shit, the fucking dumb bitch.
The reason we know why is why that's why it's funny.
If she said a miniature sandwich, we'd be like, what?
Well, like, you know, if I was making content and I didn't give a shit about my
content, I might make that mistake and not fix it, too.
What was her name again?
Phoebe. I'm so sorry.
Phoebe. I'm so sorry.
New miniature deception called frenzy who breaks into Air Force One
and transforms into a stereo.
Phoebe.
Phoebe.
Phoebe.
Ignoring the improbability of having a random boombox lying around in 2007,
a significantly different.
Boombox in 2007?
That doesn't sound too unrealistic.
No, I think people were still listening to CDs back then, right?
iPhones had just came out at that point.
So I mean, there would be a transition period.
Right. I think that is fair enough to.
Why are you talking about related movies?
They still had them in my school when I.
Yeah, so I'm pretty sure you're just underestimating how much people don't.
It's transgender.
I mean, I can't remember having like an actual CD player back when I was in.
Yeah, I must have been like eight, nine, maybe 10.
So that's roughly around the same time.
The deception would have to be really miniature to be like an iPod at that point.
So I guess they have to go with the boombox.
Well, I think there was a miniature iPhone deception in one of the movies.
What was even the point of this reference?
Was this inclusion simply done to prove that the creators actually watched the
cartoon? He's hiding as a piece of technology.
Is she saying that it's so unbelievable to be a boombox that it must have been fanserviced?
Must have been actually I always figured it was like, oh, yeah,
I would react to the same way as the item that you wouldn't bat an eye at.
What does that do?
Branded boombox, branded boombox, because then we know exactly what it was in there.
Yeah, I mean, can you imagine if she was just like, that's an evil boombox
and decide to like shoot it?
To get with an axe and everyone's like, what the fuck are you doing?
Sharing the deception and tries to kill it.
It's 2019.
If you walk into a room and there's a boombox in the room, are you like, oh, what
the fuck is that? What is that doing in here?
If you're in a military body, has it removed?
Top secret military base.
You could be suspicious of like, oh, the random boombox showed up.
I would question, especially in 2019, but I wouldn't it wouldn't make me go deception.
Deception.
You can't scan it for bugs or something to give them the absolute benefit of the
doubt. I don't even think I'd go that far.
I just be like, somebody left this stupid boombox here.
It's fucking carol and accounting again.
Let's see where's the stupid love mixtape.
Dumb bitch.
Number eight, Deadpool X-Men.
I don't think you can call this like fucking everyone hates this,
especially Deadpool on this list.
Even Ryan Reynolds hates this.
Did you ever see the end of Deadpool 2 where he shot?
Everybody did, everybody but Paul B did.
No, everybody but Jay.
You can call it.
No, you can call it failed fanservice, I suppose.
I hated it. That's what that's the list.
That's it belongs on this.
What I mean, it's kind of like this is such a boring way to do it.
If you're just like, oh, it's just times where they did a thing that was for the fans
and it either worked or didn't.
Yeah, the whole point of the content is to make Vacu a shit.
But at least it's a vacuous shit.
I happen to enjoy Watchmojo regularly.
They're my plenty of this stuff.
Plenty of this stuff is incompetent vacuous shit.
This is this is at least competent.
Yeah, I can't masturbate to regular porn anymore.
I have to masturbate to Pahobi.
I'm pronouncing Decepticon deception.
My life now.
Origins Wolverine.
Wait, is that you?
Spending years in development, David Benioff's script
this first Wolverine trilogy spinoff would eventually incorporate contributions
by Hugh Jackman himself, Skip Woods and David Ayer.
During this time, I forgot that he had the laser eyes.
Deadpool had Brian Reynolds Pet Project.
And he could teleport.
It was the most like Opie thing ever.
They just chop his head off like, oh, all right.
He looks like Baraka from Mortal Kombat.
Isn't he? He has an adamantium skeleton, right?
I guess we'll hot adamantium can cut through adamantium.
I don't know.
And once he was adamantium, like, yeah.
How does he bend his elbows with his claws and his his arms?
I guess he made it.
Can you get can you sure that he does, Jay?
Can you prove that?
Like, obviously, I have to watch that movie again.
Obviously, there's some suspension of disbelief since the clause
for Wolverine are already like silly enough.
But that's kind of crazy.
His clothes could fit inside his arm.
They show it, though.
Sure. All the way into his like forearm, his claws.
That's why it does look so weird.
Yeah, it's like, does it go like past his wrist and down the bottom of his arm?
We'd have to watch.
There is a scene where they show it with like an X, right?
But even still, Wolf is right that we'd probably let them get away with some stuff.
So but you got to admit, swords that come out of your hands.
It's like, wow, that's that's a lot of work.
You know, that's way worse than just a sword made of adamantium.
Like you could have that disarmed from you.
If you can do this and it works and do it, but it doesn't make it.
They write it to where it works.
But it's like the Assassin's Creed knife.
It's like an actual knife in your hand, but way worse.
Yeah, the role because you can't turn it around or twist it
or flip its direction or swap hands with it.
But not in a good way.
While we understand taking liberties can sometimes lead to great success.
This was not the character to try this with.
I don't know. Would it work with any fucking character to have done what they did?
It's really weird.
It's like this character that has amazing powers completely, because it's a
what are they doing, like cutting powers out of other mutants and putting into them?
I don't think the problem is that they took liberties with Deadpool.
I think the problem is that they took the wrong liberties with Deadpool
and put him in the, like, the perfect wrong context to appreciate his character.
Like, they keep taking liberties with him at that point.
You know what I mean? Yeah, exactly.
I don't even know.
Yeah, like they could have done it with literally anybody to be the same problem,
because it's just like not a character.
They didn't even speak.
But just really just have the same character in it and don't.
Deadpool is not known for his speaking.
Don't associate with him with Deadpool.
Typically, Deadpool doesn't talk at all, right?
Yeah, Deadpool is not much of a talkative character.
He's more of he's more of a sword arm guy.
Like a stoic, wise character that always saves.
Yeah, that always has swords in his arms.
Like, that's that's the Deadpool I know.
I miss the boy's rise.
I'm one sword. I'm Deadpool.
Not only did the Merc with a mouth not look like his comic book counterpart,
but also animation as crackers jaw was sewn shut.
We won't even get into his superpowers here.
Luckily, the later standalone Deadpool films would do the character justice.
It's probably one of the worst moments of attempted fan service in like movie
history, potentially, because I can you imagine being a Deadpool fan watching
this movie, who would have been paid?
Oh, yeah, there's there's no fan service in this at all.
It's like this is it's like taking a shake up and yeah,
this is Joe Biden kissing fans on the back of the neck.
I mean, I'm just seeing the more claws cut through like his his adamantium
skeleton, I'm thinking surely it would work the other way around that metal
less hard when it's melting, you know, an adamanti melting metal
is going to be weaker than the the hard adamanti.
And you might think that if you were smart, yeah, you're wrong
because when softer something hits harder or something,
then the softer one slices right through it.
It's hard.
But if you imagine you had like a like a bar of metal,
like just like an aluminum bar.
And let's say you had a knife that was made out of butter, right?
Yeah. And you just cut right through that that aluminum bar.
Imagine that happened in the film.
He swiped his clothes, came off and the devil's like, the fuck you doing?
Metal Batman, Batman Forever.
I like to love the car.
After Tim Burton's Batman Returns
pushed the Dark Knight into heavier territory, Joel Schumacher and Jim Carrey
were brought into lighten things up.
While Batman and Robin feels like a straight up goofball comedy,
Batman Forever has a couple of head slapping moments that foreshadow
the caped crusaders impending silliness.
Despite maintaining the gothic aesthetic of Burton's films,
Schumacher seemed inspired by the 1960s Batman series,
including a line that only Burt Ward's Robin should have dared to utter.
Holy rusted metal, Batman.
Yeah, I don't have anything.
She's right. She's right about all of that.
And way too on the nose, Batman Forever's throwaway joke
is a testament to the film's identity crisis.
Because he's Mad Martin, bitch.
That fucking that movie is crazy, though.
Like Tommy Lee Jones is at his hamiest.
He's trying to out him, Jim Carrey.
Number six, Anakin creates C-3PO.
Star Wars Episode one.
Um, sure.
I don't know why.
I don't know if this is what I mean.
It's like, do fans want that?
Like what? Yeah.
I think that just makes a lot more questions than I mean, yeah, especially if.
Oh, I don't know.
I didn't feel I was like I was young at the time, so I was like,
that's a thing I'm aware of.
But other than that, I just wasn't.
I didn't. I don't think we need to go back and watch this movie
to to prove whether this is wrong.
All right. Well, let's just hope he's worked for it.
Take a break.
What we're going to do is while we're on break, we're going to watch the Phantom Menace
and then we'll be right back to wrap up this epap later.
We're actually going to watch the Phantom Thread because that's more a piece
of pleasing to get poisoned by your fucking lover than to watch Phantom Menace again.
Yes, isn't he great?
He's not finished yet.
As the destination is already known.
It doesn't change anything that he's there even because of the way they are.
They just make it so he turns up on the fucking tanta for whatever.
By the end of the third one, you're just like, why did you even do it?
It's just so you could have C3P.
It's like what I call winky dinky dink.
That's the thing, you know,
yes, the temptation to tie everything together can be overwhelming,
but certain things are better left to the audience's imagination.
Besides serving as the first chapter in Darth Vader's origin story,
the Phantom Menace seemingly could be the deception.
It's the urge to expand upon C3PO's backstory.
In it, we learn the C3PO.
I mean, I do think they should have been left out of the prequels, but like, OK.
I don't know. I think that C3PO is a major deception.
Yeah, you can't you can't leave them out of the prequels, right?
That's the whole the whole movie was based on these two little fuckers.
It would take a minute from rebels in here.
I guess we're about to find out.
The universe feels rather puny when the main characters
seem to always run into each other.
Let's walk out to number five.
That's so bad.
Wasn't the story supposed to kind of be loosely told through R2D2 and C3PO's eyes
based on Lucas ripping it from a hidden fortress?
Really about them. Really about it is.
It's really about a hominid's family.
It's about it's about robot family.
I remember a damn ditty human.
I remember that.
You can pour off me, you damn city.
C3PO.
In a rare twist, Rise of the Planet of the Apes
demonstrated the proper way to pay tribute to this particular line.
Tim Burton's Planet of the Apes callback, by contrast,
comes across as forced instead of endearing.
Switching things around by having Michael Clark Duncan's ape deliver
an updated version of Charlton Heston's iconic quote,
the film should have just gone ahead and winked at the audience.
Take your stinking hands off me, you damn dirty human.
Yeah.
I miss Michael Clark Duncan.
He was awesome.
I know I can't be mad at him for anything he does.
It's badass and everything to recapture the magic of the original.
Green Mile, Planet of the Apes ends on a truly bizarre final note.
Green Mile is so depressing.
Yes, Green Mile only exists so we can come to terms
with his inevitable real life.
Wasn't we have to watch him die in that film?
Wasn't he in the Scorpion King?
I think he was. Yeah.
Yeah. With the rock.
Yeah. Wow.
Fight.
We had the film is weird.
I need to watch it again.
Yeah. And I don't I don't care.
He's my favorite part of the Daredevil movie.
Came out with Ben Affleck.
That's Tim Roth, by the way.
The guy who plays the bad guy in that movie, Planet of the Apes.
When you're seeing right now, it's just weird.
There's lots of really big actors in that movie.
For all the wrong reasons.
This one looked at me.
Number four, birth of a name.
Solo, a Star Wars story.
What's your name, son?
Hunt.
Here's a lesson on how to.
That wasn't fan service.
I don't. That was what I mean.
Is this right?
It's attempting to be fan service, the thing I think.
But I don't even I don't even think that's what I was trying to do.
I thought they were just I'm they thought it was smart to be like,
this is the origin of his name.
Get out of the way.
This is the only thing you guys wanted to know how we got his last name.
Right.
We're like, I just assume that his his parents were Mr.
and Mrs. Solo.
I never knew shit.
But you didn't care to find out how he got his name.
Come on, everyone. No.
That was really was we needed it because otherwise I actually,
I actually was at the theater.
I went up to the production room and I rewound the movie back again
to watch that scene a second time because it was so mind blowing.
It answered everything.
All right.
People do think is it or would you count it as fan service?
I mean, it depends, I guess, on just how loose of a definition
of fans of as you're going with.
Because the idea is like they do it to please the fans.
That is fan service, right?
And it's that shallow for this.
I thought they did it just because they thought that's what you're supposed
to do in an origin film and they were they were it. Yeah.
Anytime you go prequel, you try and shoehorn in things that tied to later one
just because you have that ability.
Not often do we go back in time with films, right?
Like, well, I think that it's clever.
Oof Oof just said, please look up the definition of fan service.
It's it's fan service.
It's not exactly.
I don't think there's a different definition for that.
Oh, fine. Well, look up your fan service.
Oh, I just I'm searching for deception of fans.
Is material in a work of fiction or in a fictional series,
which is intentionally added to please the audience?
Oh, it's not what I said.
But you could describe anything as that, though.
Intentionally added to please the audience.
No, the verdict, but this is the thing.
I'm arguing that it wasn't added to please fans.
It was added because they were just writing a story that's an origin.
They were like, oh, yeah, he's got to get his name
because that's what you do in an origin story.
Because that's what you do when you're like 30 is you get your name.
Yeah, yeah, it makes complete sense.
And I love if something being added to please fans makes it fan service.
Then was the first set of triple tits in total recall,
the original total recall film was that fan service
or only the second set of triple tits in the remake fan service?
I think tits are a fan service no matter what.
Well, there's a triple E.R.
Calls every film past a new hope for Star Wars fans.
I don't think I'd like I don't think I'd like triple tits.
Yeah, I'm right. Oh, come on.
No, no, I think two is a good one. Come on.
No, because then you could grab both of them and no one's feeling lonely.
Yeah, let's be good.
That's what your mouth is for.
Oh, that's funny.
Yeah, but that would be weird because you'd have what you sucking a titty
and grabbing two others at the same time.
Have you never been in a three way with a girl?
The one tit removed. It's awesome.
It's just weird.
Oh, my God, because your hands would be up at the same level as the face.
You could do that in a three way way.
That was you could do that if there were four boots there,
you'd just be neglecting one.
Like, you don't you know, you've got feet having to do that.
I guess you can do that.
Yeah, but you've got two feet.
So then you need five.
No, everything matches.
You've got two arms.
She's got two arms.
You got two legs. You got two legs.
You have one penis.
You had she has one generally vagina.
But she has multiple holes.
Come on. Come on.
If you're only using the vagina, you take the whole.
I knew Billy would take it here eventually.
I was like, man, it's been a while.
I also talked about triple tits.
So someone brought up, honestly, if I don't talk about sexual weird stuff,
I'm not doing my fan service.
I know the Darth Maul moment compared to the hand.
So like to me, I'm like, oh, yeah, Darth Maul is absolutely fan service.
But the hand solar naming thing was like, uh,
it seems like a really awkward piece of writing
that they didn't think was weird at the time.
Yeah, I felt like the Darth Maul thing was trying to be set up
for another film that's always definitely bad, too.
Yeah, but they're also like, right? Absolutely.
And they're like, fuck, no one really like this, do they?
This isn't very good.
But I think fan service is something added to familiar familiarize
with the fans that doesn't build under the plot, right?
It's just there.
It just exists.
Oh, I got that reference.
I got that reference.
And then it's like a fan like the fucking one,
the guys from the cantina show up in Rogue One on a random other planet
that they have no business being on.
Hey, they can have what I call fan service.
I mean, yeah, they could.
It's not in the movie.
They make really great space martinis there at that one specific.
I was a deleted scene for sure.
I can't wait until we get their own movie
explaining exactly why they were there and how that guy got it.
Like those balls on his face.
Like, yeah, Ponda Baba.
But Ponda Baba was born that way.
So, guys, I actually got to get going.
I really appreciate you guys having me on.
That is unbelievable.
And I will I will see you guys when you guys come on.
I think next week or later this week.
Are you cool with all three of us coming on?
Oh, sure. OK, absolutely.
Assuming everyone's available, right?
We'll see what happens with that.
Yeah. The 11th is it?
I think we're yeah.
Yeah, I think we're shooting for the 11th.
And you have time and time zone, even though I probably already was told that
because I'm stupid.
It's we usually start around 515 p.m.
Pacific Pacific Pacific.
We should be eight for me, which would be.
We're five hours apart.
So that would be 1 a.m. for you.
One for me on.
Wait, does that mean it's Friday for me at that point?
Yeah. Yes.
All right. Well, is that you and Billy are popping out or is it?
I'll stick around for a little while longer.
Cool. All right.
It's been fun. And do you want to do you want to give a little quick
like thing about your channels slash Drunken Peasants and why everyone?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Everyone check out Drunken Peasants on YouTube.
That's the show Billy and I do together.
And then I have my own channel.
I do a show on there called The Altered Perspective,
which is very similar to Drunken Peasants.
And Billy does his own thing.
He does mostly music and live streams over on his channel.
You can just search for Billy the Fridge.
You'll find it. YouTube dot com slash overweight.
Yeah. Slash overweight.
Oh, there you go. But yeah.
Yeah. Thanks for having me on, guys.
It was a lot of fun.
Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, we'll see you on Tuesday, I guess.
All right. See you.
See you later. Bye bye.
So let's see what ends up being number one, shall we?
We kill a character's mystique.
Star Wars hardly lacks for beloved personas,
but few compared to Harrison Ford's Han Solo.
With Disney turning Star Wars into an annual event,
everyone's favorite smuggler earned a spinoff movie
that answered questions never even pondered by fans.
What? Who are your people?
This is kind of because it's like to guess the intention.
The whites are my people.
To get the intention of fanservice is almost how you determine it.
Right. And it's kind of hard to figure it out every time, I suppose.
I mean, I guess if you really, really were one of the 12 people on the globe
who were like, yeah, I always wanted to know how solo got his name
and you were this, you'd be like, oh, yeah, this was great fanservice.
I love the way that this guy told this guy his name.
And that was his name would be like, you never wondered how he got his name.
You'd be like, oh, it's like I've.
No, no, no.
You kind of had to know that these Star Wars stories only exist
because of fanservice, right?
Like they wanted to show why the Death Star had a little blow up button
in Rogue Squadron or whatever the fuck that movie was called.
A Star Wars story.
And they think everybody's complaint about the original movies.
Like we learned why Han shot Greedo first here
because of Woody Harrelson's character, you know, shooting.
Yeah, it's just like it shows you why things happen
that people fight and complain about.
The entire thing exists because of fanservice.
I don't think it already drives asking why did Han shoot Greedo first?
No, nobody asked.
But Disney was going to fucking tell us like he shot first
because he knew he couldn't trust even his best friend.
Woody Harrelson from Cheers, you know, he was from Cheers.
You're right. Yeah.
He's not going to watch Cheers for Fears.
I do know what Cheers is.
Cheers is like... Don't lie to the audience again, Jake.
I know what it is. I just never watched it.
Cheers is like the Cantina scene from Star Wars,
but the entire series and no Star Wars.
It's not that long ago in a galaxy very, very close by.
George Wendt is Jabba the Hutt.
Among the dozens of Easter eggs,
Solo cleared up any confusion surrounding...
Yeah, I was going to say, of all the things she could have picked on as well.
Any confusion surrounding the name.
And that... His name is Han Solo.
Like, I don't understand.
That makes no sense.
That makes no sense.
I don't get it.
His original name was Han Deception.
Deception.
The hero's name.
But the explanation was totally unnecessary
and did little to further Han's mythos.
Apparently, Solo is a reference to Han being an orphan.
Honestly, we liked it better when it was just a name.
Well, it's like one of the things about Han Solo's character
in the Han Solo movie is that he wasn't really...
That cool or interesting or likable.
And he's just like, I'm here.
But you don't...
You're not Han Solo. Who are you?
You're like some wannabe who isn't really...
Hey, man. All the characters were telling him
throughout the film that he's a good man.
And then it turned out at the end.
Yeah, except he raised a shitty kid to kill him.
Not a good man.
OK, not that bit.
God, we're talking about that bit.
That's a different part.
I mean, I really...
He's a great father, Mr. Father.
I just like the idea with the power of writing.
Like, if Han Solo was some kind of real thing,
he finds out, it's like, you wrote me,
so I'm a shit dad. Thanks for that.
Disney like, well, I don't know.
He just seemed that way.
Well, it's more Luke's fault
because you let him stay with Luke, right?
The creepy uncle, right?
And yet Luke is the one that gets to go to Force Heaven
and Han falls down a pit.
Yeah, well, Han can come back as a Force ghost
and he just goes, he just sits at the cantina all day.
That's heaven for him.
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Solo.
Do we get a say in this?
He doesn't even play the music, like, duh, duh, duh.
Number three, role reversal.
Star Trek into darkness.
Doctor Strange is calm.
There's nothing wrong with learning a thing or two
from a masterpiece,
but some new ideas need to be brought to the plate
to warrant revisiting a classic story.
So they're probably complaining about the fact
that isn't it in the original Spock dies
and then the remake?
No, wait, yeah.
And then it's the reverse.
Yeah, I guess.
My name is Khan Solo.
On deception.
So the idea there is just that the whole film
is fan service again, but sure, you know?
Star Trek into darkness wants so desperately
to be the modern day equivalent of Wrath of Khan
that J.J. Abrams' film ends up simply aping the original.
What?
J.J. Abrams' film apes the original?
What?
Have you heard that before?
I hope he didn't, at least he didn't do that
with Star Wars.
Mm-hmm.
And Star Trek.
Yeah.
Things called Star something.
Besides reintroducing characters
like Benedict Cumberbatch's Khan
and Alice Eve's Carol Marcus,
into darkness predictably hit new lows
by going as far as to copy Wrath of Khan's iconic ending,
just with Kirk and Spock switching roles.
Number two.
Does Kirk die?
No.
Only for like five minutes, right?
Yeah.
Spoiler.
I was so, it is so tense to wonder if Kirk survives.
Well, hang on, is it?
This is prequel.
Chris Pine is Kirk in that, right?
He's gonna be, it's not the last time
he's being resurrected seemingly for no apparent reason.
Well, he left Star Trek now, right?
He's out.
Well, I'm thinking about Wonder Woman.
What, he's being resurrected?
Oh, he got resurrected?
Isn't he in the next Wonder Woman film?
How?
Couldn't he be like the great grandson of his dad?
I swear you told me this.
I don't, I wouldn't, I don't have no,
I got no information on Wonder Woman.
Well, you're the source I'm citing.
When did I tell you that?
When?
If you don't even know about it then,
I swear you told me this.
It makes me a lot, honestly, it can't be because
I've never known anything about Wonder Woman.
I watched it when it came out and I didn't like it.
That's as far as it's gone with that shit.
And the next one is like in the 80, 1984.
I swear he's billed for it.
I'm gonna check.
Well, if he is, that's news to me.
So, you're telling me now.
I swear you told me.
Yup, he is.
He's billed for it.
Apparently, yeah, the chat's saying that it's in,
he's in it, yeah.
So you told me that and now I'm telling you that
and it's news to you.
That's how information works.
There you go.
In the end, the spin around, the balance,
that was the balance of the force.
That was the Decepticon.
Covenant, Indiana Jones
and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
Put down gun.
You got it, pal.
Put down gun.
Ah!
Don't knock him off, don't knock him off!
I'm glad nobody shot me.
Oh God, I forgot Galadriel was the evil Russian in that.
Steven Spielberg's Indiana Jones series
is an insanely high standard to expect any film to reach.
With that in mind, it may have been more prudent
to avoid including any obvious reminders.
Easter eggs are generally harmless,
but a poorly timed one can drag the audience
out of the experience,
especially when the reference adds nothing to the story.
During the Hangar 51 chase scene,
Indy snacks into the Ark's crate,
but moves on without giving it a second notice.
This could easily have been a random box, but crazy.
Oh wow, I forgot how obvious they made it.
I thought it was going to be like the same label.
Look guys, the Ark of the Covenant is in this box.
Do you remember good films?
It's embarrassing.
They could have, it could have been cool
if it was just the same label and number
and we see it in the background,
then it's just an Easter egg.
But no, now it's like a, look at this.
Night 9-9-0-6-7-5-3 was chosen
to get a cheap rise out of fans.
Sadly, Kingdom of the Crystal Skull
had not earned this cameo.
This ain't going to be easy.
I agree with Fyobi on this.
They're making another one of these films, right?
I believe so, yeah.
Yay.
Not as easy as it used to be.
Number one, all of the cameos, Ghostbusters.
Oh, okay.
Why are you pretending to catch ghosts?
We love 1984's Ghostbusters as much as the next person,
but there's no reason to bring everyone back for a cameo.
Paul Feig's Ghostbusters reboot stops dead in its tracks
whenever a Bill Murray or a Dan Aykroyd show up.
Oh, is that where it stops?
Is that where it goes downhill?
But up on that, it's great.
It was so funny.
Hilarious.
If only these white men didn't ruin
this perfect film for us.
It was the narrative of the video
that these things are damaging the content they're in, right?
So she has to try and say it.
You're like, come on.
We all know the movie was terrible.
Question of the subtle tribute to Harold Ramis,
none of the cameos managed to actually be funny or respectful.
No, you only lack the proper equipment,
like a garbage truck to hang on to the back of.
With some being downright mean-spirited.
Considering the plot rarely treads new ground,
these endless-
Does it say Decepticon in the background or deception?
I don't know.
We needed to comment on it.
The backs only intensified the sentiment
Intensified the sentiment.
It says Recepticon, yeah.
All right, we're nearly there now.
You get the classic like, that's our list.
What do you think?
Tell us about the most worst blah, blah, blah.
Oh, she can do it.
Do you agree with our picks?
Check out these other great clips from WatchMojo
and be sure to subscribe and ring the bell
to be notified about our latest videos.
Oh, she didn't say what you think.
Talk to MrBeast videos?
She didn't say what you think.
Oh, she sort of implied it,
like if you agreed with it or not.
Like, do you agree with our things?
And half of them were like, eh.
Also, dude, if they end up like removing the bell
and doing something else,
so many videos are gonna suffer.
For real.
Ring the bell,
but then people in the future are like, what bell?
God damn it.
Nobody.
It's kind of like when,
it's kind of like when people ask for video responses
and it's like, oh, that doesn't happen anymore.
It's all changing.
You gotta prepare for the future.
Like, ring the bell won't be here forever.
I think we should start saying polish the knob goblin.
The point was supposed to be
that these videos progressively get worse,
but I have to say,
I think that video is way better than the Spider-Man 3 one.
Eh, yeah.
WatchMojo, that's it.
Are you doing that for some of this?
Is the next one the one I'm excited about?
No, this is from Lupa.
We're getting progressively worse.
Oh, this one's short as well.
So me and Rags have seen Captain Marvel.
I believe Jay has.
Billy, have you seen it?
Four times in theaters.
Is that real? Really?
Yeah.
Like it?
It was fine.
I liked it.
Have you seen it four times?
You saw it, it's fine.
So you saw it four times?
Okay, I had plans to watch it with Onision,
and but I wanted to watch it before then,
so I didn't get spoiled so that I knew that I hate,
whether I liked it or not,
it was because I gave it a fair chance.
So I watched it first, then I saw it with Onision,
and then I went on two dates afterwards to it,
because girls pick movies.
Okay, all right.
Well, oh.
So you're at doormat, is what you're saying?
No, let's put it this way.
I'll watch a shitty movie four times in theaters.
It wasn't that bad.
I wouldn't watch Wonder Woman four times in theaters.
That was way fucking worse than Captain Marvel.
That's a take.
Oh, wow.
Well, yeah, and as Chad pointed out,
three watches means wasn't bored,
four watches means fine now.
I have to figure out the lore for one and two watches now.
Exactly, exactly.
I saw blockers four times in theaters
because the theater I go to has really good.
I'm just like more like taking aback
by the fact that you know Onision.
Yeah, it's my buddy.
Yeah, he's a piece of shit.
Oh shit.
This video is called The Real Reason Nick Fury
didn't page Captain Marvel.
And so it's obviously gonna be referencing all the time.
Oh yeah, with the magic galactic nature
that Captain Marvel put together.
Kevin Feige, Kevin Feige, he talked about this already.
I think that's gonna be in this video.
Yeah, well, even Kevin Feige isn't immune to criticism.
So we're gonna see how valid this is.
And then Wolfstein wouldn't have seen the movie.
So the obvious information he only needs
is that that page is given to Fury in 95.
So why didn't he use it in all of the apocalyptic events
of the MCU?
We're gonna find out.
As the post-credits scene in Avengers Infinity War
and the final few minutes
of her recently released solo movie have proven,
Captain Marvel is like the Kim Possible
of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
No, no, no.
Call her, beep her.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Also this music, Jay, are you familiar with this track?
The da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da.
It's like in every fucking loop of video.
Yeah, I've seen one of their videos
before I'm familiar with this music.
I've seen enough of their videos.
If you want to reach her,
major Marvel fans know the story.
Shield Agent Nick Fury-
Is Captain Marvel like Kim Possible
because her live-action movie was disappointing?
Yes, that is the connection he was drawing.
So wait, he kept this pager for like 25 years
and at no point he thought maybe we should upgrade
to something a little bit better.
She created it.
She created the pager.
Yeah, Captain Marvel created the galactic pager device
because- She went to RadioShack.
Yeah, she could do fucking anything at any time
better than anyone else ever could, ever.
Well, I didn't know she made it, okay.
Yeah, she did.
Why would she make it special?
Why would he fuck with her Kree technology?
No, that's not the problem.
I don't know, I haven't watched the movie.
I don't know anything about it.
You're both talking about things you don't know.
Oh my God.
I was asking a question.
Willow's better than Lord of the Rings.
Quit mansplaining.
Captain Marvel at the tail end of Infinity War
after Thanos snapped his Infinity Stone-powered fingers
and killed half of all life in the universe.
Sorry if you guys haven't seen Infinity War.
In Captain Marvel, said many years earlier,
Carol Danvers hands Fury his pager back
before she leaves Earth to help the Skrulls
locate a new homeworld,
telling him she made extra special enhancements
to his trusty communications device
and to only use it to contact her
when there's a, quote, real emergency happening.
Thanos decimating the universe is certainly a real emergency.
No one denies this.
But what about all the other crises
that have gone down in the MCU?
Did they not necessitate a call to Captain Marvel?
See, here's a question about Endgame I have.
And maybe, maybe this will be an incident in Endgame,
I kind of doubt it.
Captain Marvel will be seeing, wherever she is,
half of all people disintegrating.
And then she's like, oh, I'm being paged.
Better go check that out.
That's a good point, actually, yeah.
Why would she go to-
Well, the page, if this was the first time
she was paged by Fury,
then she would know it was very necessary
that she goes and checks it out after 20 years.
Why?
For 15 years, she wouldn't know that.
Maybe nothing has gone down on Earth since then, you know.
Maybe it's just been like, chill out.
What if Fury was like, we got this Dr. Doom guy,
he's trying to kill us.
She's like, literally Thanos just wiped off.
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, but Dr. Doom.
You can do that later.
Well, she could still go check, right?
I'm hoping they will account for that.
As fast as she can travel through space,
you'd think it'd be like a minor inconvenience.
I mean, I'm also surprised that the Kree
are unaware of Thanos, considering their reach.
Yeah, it's very strange that if you could
just wear a galactic empire,
you'd be aware of Thanos and the Chitauri going through.
Goes with different planet systems,
Ronin worked for Thanos,
and Ronin might have fed them intel
that Thanos was just fine.
How do you hide that?
How do you hide what?
How do you hide the fact that he's going
from planet to planet, killing half of all life.
Yeah, people actually know it.
Half of all witnesses.
Yeah, like there are survivors,
like half of the people are still alive.
He stopped killing half the planets though,
because he had a new plan, right?
No, he was doing, he does that in Infinity War.
At the beginning of Infinity War,
he kills half of Thor's people.
Yeah.
Well, that was just to prove a point.
Yeah, he proves it by doing it.
Yeah.
I'm thinking like Captain Marvel receives the page
saying half of our people have disappeared,
and she clearly, she would just think,
yeah, it's happening fucking everywhere, mate.
The page didn't say anything.
The page didn't say anything.
The page said that he needed her.
It was a beacon, it was a beacon.
She has to show up to be like, what's wrong?
Like obviously, maybe Earth knows more now.
And maybe she's been back to Earth,
because she has ties there.
She has been back to Earth.
Yeah, right.
We know that.
Well, Kevin Feige said that,
you know, he said that she,
we don't know that she hasn't been back to Earth.
We don't know that she hasn't been paged before.
We just haven't focused a movie on it.
Just now, we're figuring out the pager exists
the last two movies,
but this movie was based in the 90s.
Which are all concessions,
because it currently doesn't make sense.
Oh, it's gonna, it's gonna,
if the Captain Marvel 2 is like Nick Fury
paging her in the early 2000s,
it's gonna get so fucky with like,
what constitutes an emergency.
But, well, we'll let this video set that up.
I want Captain Marvel 2 to be set in space.
We finally know the answers to all those questions.
Sort of.
Movie news site slash film did the world a favor
when they asked Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige
in a recent interview
why Fury didn't contact Captain Marvel sooner.
Like, say when that gigantic wormhole
barfed up a bunch of aliens over Manhattan
in the original Avengers.
Yeah, an intergalactic alien invasion, you know.
You'd think.
You'd think.
You wouldn't think.
But, no, you wouldn't think that
because he put together the Avengers Initiative
to deal with this, so he wouldn't have to call her.
They were literally.
This was a test run.
This was a test run for Avengers.
They were seconds away from nuking
one of the most populated cities in America.
Yeah.
And he thought his people could handle it,
and he had to trust his people
because he didn't want to have to,
he didn't want to rely on some space woman.
And yet he does in Endgame.
Because he was gone now.
He's like, well, I'm about to fucking float away.
Now I'm going to call him.
No, he was going to get the thing
before he started.
Yeah, he called it before he poofed.
Yeah.
I think he felt, he felt it coming, right?
Because before Spider-Man poofed,
he was like, oh, Mr. Spider-Man feels so good.
You can tell the future, though.
Why don't I can tell the future?
Yeah, but maybe you're right.
That event was so bad that the World Security Council
launched a nuclear bomb at the city.
Nick Fury had to run outside and fire an actual bazooka
at one of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s own planes to try to stop it.
That's some rough stuff.
If Captain Marvel is the most powerful character in the MCU,
and if she's apparently strong enough
to help take down Thanos,
why hasn't she been spoken about
in connection with the Avengers until now?
Yeah.
You know the real reason is that she's a retconned,
but we want to-
Yeah, the real reason is because they just fucking
made her up right before the finish line of the series,
is the reason why.
This is why he waited to call her
because he waited until they lost.
He waited until plan A lost.
No, he waited because she didn't exist before this.
They hadn't even lost, technically.
People were flippering away.
He doesn't know anything about why, though.
He's just like-
Yeah, why not?
He's S.H.I.E.L.D.
He has S.H.I.E.L.D. connections.
He's S.H.I.E.L.D. gone.
How would he know?
They showed the scene where he was in the car.
Some people disappear and he's like,
well, now is the time.
Why hasn't she helped them out?
According to Feige, there are two explanations.
The first one is that Fury may not have considered
anything that went down before Infinity War
a genuine emergency.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
Bullshit.
We got this handled.
He knew that.
It's a classic alien invasion.
I like that he said genuine emergency,
as if an alien invasion is not a gen-
What exactly are you saving this call for?
Is that time that an AI tried to destroy the entire planet?
This reminds me of fucking cinema
since we're saying why are they attacking the alien army?
Oh, right, yeah.
They tried to destroy the one.
And the thing is too, it's like if he used,
if he used the space pager and she came
and he was like, oh yeah, we were being invaded
by an intergalactic alien empire.
They almost destroyed us.
We barely survived.
I doubt she'd be like, oh, okay.
Well, I don't know.
She's that much of a cunt of a character,
but I doubt that she would be like,
oh yeah, that was a waste of time.
Scale of chaos.
Took her a while to get here.
Dating Manhattan, who cares?
It's just one city, right?
No big deal.
Killer robots threatening total world domination.
Whatever.
That sounds like something-
I'm sure he's joking.
Tony Stark should be able to fix
with a quick call to his IT guy.
Yeah, but the thing is, it sounds like a joke,
but it's the same as the point he's already been making.
Well, I don't know.
Well, we're reasonable people who understand the movie.
It's like he's sarcastically agreeing with himself.
I'm sure he's joking.
Hello, IT.
Have you tried turning it off and on again?
This is a good show.
Nick Fury actor Samuel L. Jackson backed Feige
on this particular explanation,
chatting with IGN about why Fury
hasn't called Captain Marvel before.
We finally have an emergency
that I feel warrants her presence.
I saw a helicopter crash and some people disappear,
but the intergalactic alien empire invasion wasn't enough.
That's how Maria Hill disappeared.
We keep referencing the Avengers one.
Age of Ultron's way worse.
He came an inch away from destroying humanity.
And Fury was there for the whole thing, by the way.
Yeah, but just destroying humanity
isn't a genuine emergency.
Didn't Nick Fury like show up only about halfway
through the movie?
Yeah, he showed up.
The Hawkeyes farmed, too.
Yep.
He could've called it.
He had plenty of time to call her.
But he doesn't need to call her yet, right?
This is a situation where he needed to call her.
You know that retroactively that he didn't need to call her.
The simplest reveal of this.
That's one of those post-Hawk rationalizations
that he couldn't have done at the time.
I think when you head shield,
you trust your instincts on when to make those calls.
It's gone at that point.
The simplest way to explain this is in Endgame,
when she shows up or when he's revived or whatever.
Say, have him like have a line to Captain Marvel saying,
also you show up this time, do you?
Yeah, they have to do something for that
because I'm sure the Roost has even recognized
that it's pretty dumb.
Like this is something that's unprecedented
and I'm not unprecedented.
They tried to destroy everyone last time.
And then the time before that,
they tried to destroy everyone.
How do you fight that?
Feige's second explanation.
He's treating that as if Fury's aware
of the entire situation,
the fact that this is happening across the universe.
I mean, Fury would be the one to know if anybody wouldn't.
He's not connected to anything.
Why does he know?
How is he not connected?
He's probably part of some news groups.
Like he's probably got a Twitter DM group.
He's got a Twitter group.
He's been happening for 10 seconds.
Captain America was on Twitter and the DM like,
oh shit, Bucky just disappeared.
And then Spider-Man was like,
I think I'm about to go too.
And then-
That's what I really wanted was that the end credit scene
where she's holding the page
or that she tunes to dust Captain Marvel.
Oh, well.
Thank God she's gone.
It was worth it.
It was worth it.
Well, the idea that he doesn't know anything
is just a bit of a leap as to thinking that he does know.
No, I'm highlighting the-
See the scene.
If he should have called it previously.
And I think that was reasonable.
I think both people-
Maybe he should have.
Maybe because he trusts his instincts
and he believes like,
there's a scene in Captain Marvel
where he's like, sometimes you gotta make the choices
that are the wrong choices
and not calling her might've been the wrong choice
inevitably, but it might've built up
that she would then know when he did call her
that it was very serious
and she would get there quicker, you know?
What?
The other problem is that there's no,
like, if you guys remember,
Fury says that a lot of the decisions
they make in Avengers is because they met
Thorne and Loki.
They were like, now we know we're not alone.
It's like, you knew that in 95, but okay.
So there's little pieces of evidence
that there's such a retcon.
But you know, Kevin Feige and Samuel Jackson
are gonna go, yeah, that's stupid.
It doesn't make sense.
You're right.
It's like, no, they're gonna say something.
They're like, oh, no, no, you're just sticking.
There's a little-
And everyone, and there's another retcon as well
in it that they call Heel Shield instead of,
because isn't it in the first?
Yeah.
The first Iron Man.
They call it the whole thing.
They don't have, yeah.
There's gonna be retcon in a production that's large.
22 films?
Yeah, but that doesn't mean the retcons are over 10 years.
Yeah, you can do retcons well.
You can.
Yeah, but it's Marvel.
It's like, this is popcorn film cinema
at its highest.
The way to do this is to just introduce Captain Marvel
in a different context and not do it like this.
And then you wouldn't have any of these problems
and it should still be just as good.
The restriction they had was they needed to space
the two movies in between Endgame and Infinity War
as past movies because you couldn't give any build, right?
You could've had a whole story on her alien planet
and then she is called in.
Like, she's aware of Thanos.
That could've worked.
That definitely could've worked,
but they had to make those choices.
They were constricted in their choice.
So that they made this choice.
But you say they were constricted by themselves.
Well, yeah, because they can't do a movie
that's in between Infinity War and Endgame, right?
They have to give us two movies that deviate from.
They decided to do something they couldn't do
and because they couldn't do it, that means it's okay.
That's like writing yourself into a hole
and then giving yourself a bad explanation
out of your own hole.
Yeah, and we say they shouldn't have done that
to begin with, I guess.
Okay.
But yeah, you know.
According to the interview,
Feige discussed Fury's Super Pager, saying,
how do you know he never hit it?
How do we know he never pushed it before?
We've never seen him push it before.
That doesn't mean he never did.
Oh my God, he's using a Patrick Willems argument.
So we know he didn't push it because Captain Marvel
isn't in any of those movies
and no one's aware of her existence.
But not in those movies.
You could put something in to justify that being the case.
She wiped everyone's memories, whatever she comes in.
But you guys-
She didn't show up.
She was fucking imprisoned somewhere.
You guys are completely ignoring
that he created the Avengers Initiative
so he wouldn't have to call her.
And he put the faith in the Avengers Initiative
so that he would be right at getting them all together.
Just so that she wouldn't have to call her.
It's not so that he wouldn't have to call her.
It's so that he wouldn't have to depend on her
if she didn't show up.
Exactly.
He doesn't try to call her.
That's the whole point of that argument,
is that it relies on the idea that Nick Fury
is so out of character, overconfident,
when he's clearly looking at a scenario
where he needs more help.
Like if you're-
Is it out of character though?
Yes, it is.
He was overconfident around that cat.
It was over-
Rags is arguing that his-
I'm sorry, people in the chat are calling you majorly like.
I'm sure Rags is arguing that his desire to save humanity
should overcome any sense of pride
that he can defend Earth himself with his team.
You know, they were moments away
from having the world just like destroyed.
And he's like-
They still not pressing it, so he was right.
Yeah, because he-
That's called a post hoc rationalization.
Okay.
That's bad.
That's a bad, that's bad.
It's bad to have those, those are not good.
You can't justify the reasoning
for something that came before it
based on knowledge that was received after the event.
That's fair enough.
Do you know what that, does that make sense?
Unless he knew that he was, the Avengers could do it.
He just had, he had a hunch?
He didn't know.
Well, this is the thing he had to actually,
he had to warn Stark
that the place was about to get nuked.
Yeah.
The, you know, the Age of Ultron thing,
like aside from the fact
that movie's pretty badly written anyway,
the fact that they came,
like I believe if,
there's a lot of things that have to slot together
in order for that to happen.
But Age of Ultron, like he's prevented
from launching Earth's nukes
because Jarvis quote unquote doesn't let him.
Like that's all we get in the movie.
It's like, that's how close we came to utter annihilation
is that apparently Jarvis stopped him.
Like, oh, okay.
But like Fury not calling Captain Marvel to me is just,
is just dumb.
And I thought they were gonna answer that in the movie.
I thought they were gonna explain that she,
she says something like,
you can only use it when it,
when it lights up or something.
Just some crappy excuse
for why he couldn't possibly use it in certain scenarios,
but they don't.
They just say use it in emergencies.
Thank you.
That's the cool thing about having like 38 movies
in a series is you can just answer that later, right?
Like we don't have to answer all the questions.
Why, why push the question?
Yeah, it's not necessarily,
they could answer it in a game.
And if they do, then yeah, that it's fine.
Like if they, if it turns out an end game,
oh, I called you for Ultron
and for like the Chitauri invasion, why didn't you show up?
And she's like, oh, I was imprisoned by the Kree,
then everything was just sorted.
I just assumed she would listen to this guy.
They could, they could answer,
they could answer that question in Captain Marvel two.
They could answer that like years from now.
Yeah, they can.
Like these movies.
They might.
These movies aren't all,
You don't have that information right now.
We have to operate on the information that we have.
And right now, we don't have.
We have to wait like patient people
who read comic books and wait month to month
to read the comic books.
No.
But like, you can't have it all right now.
That's not how we don't need it.
We don't need to have it all.
We need to have a justifiable reason for the things.
Well, I was gonna say, surely by that logic,
there could never be a mistake
because you could justify it with a future thing.
Like even to the, for example.
That's the beauty of creative writing, right?
No, that's the sloppy laziness of what people think
is good writing.
Okay, okay.
That's bad.
I'm not saying this is good writing.
I'm saying this is comic book film.
You're defending it like it is.
This isn't Paul Thomas.
I'm defending it like it is a comic book film.
You're defending it like it's Paul Thomas Anderson.
No, I'm defending it like it needs to be a piece of work
that makes sense.
Oh, wow.
And that's not exactly a really high bar.
It's not a low bar either.
Like this is just a move.
They've created a question
that has unsatisfactory supporting information
by what we've seen in all these films.
I feel like we're getting close to it doesn't bother me.
Yeah.
Look, the fact is they could have,
they could have done something they chose not to.
They gave up on it.
They were just like, eh.
Yeah.
It's already like a two hour plus film.
Like they don't have room for single.
It's like a throw.
That would be better if they told me
why she wasn't here before.
And it's like, it doesn't need to be there.
The point is that we know that she was created.
She didn't exist as a character for all of this stuff.
So your lack, since you can't suspend your belief
for a minute in the movie's room.
Disbelief.
It doesn't bother me.
Yeah.
No, though, she didn't exist.
She was retconned in.
Okay.
What if this does-
That's bad.
If this ruins your dispension of-
Dispension.
If this ruins your dispension of Decepticon, right?
Thank you.
Thank you.
That's what I meant to say.
If this ruins your suspension of disbelief,
you're not wrong because it's like a thing that is there.
Like I'm happy to accept at the end
the explanation might come.
Yeah, for example.
Right.
And that would be an appropriate place to put it.
The eye thing with Fury, we could have Captain Marvel 2
and it begins with him and he has two eyes.
And then they're like, man, it's so good
that it didn't actually hit my eye.
And I just thought that it did.
That's the, you could have that as a retcon,
but people would just be like, really?
For like, they did it with fucking Coulson dying.
They brought him back to life.
And he was like, yeah, that's totally a thing.
No, he's not dead anymore.
He's like, um.
Yeah.
These are the things that we just be like,
these are so poorly done.
It's so stapled on.
That's happened in cinema and comic books
and everything for so long.
That doesn't matter.
It's part of the trope.
Yeah, we still highlight them being poor.
That doesn't excuse how bad it is.
Okay.
If you're gonna hold it to this level of excellence,
that's fine, but I'm not going to.
Well, don't you think it's significant, though?
All right, if you wanna have extremely low standards
and I just wanna have them,
this makes sense. I do.
Like we're not talking about a character
didn't have the same colored hat between scenes.
And so we're talking about literally like something
that would annihilate the stakes.
If he called her in the beginning of Avengers
and she came in, it's over.
Loki gets beaten straight away.
Okay.
And that would happen if everything worked
in perfect favor.
Movies aren't set up to just be perfect.
What do you mean it worked in perfect favor?
If Loki could have been beat,
if Hulk was just right place, right,
and smashed him in the back of the fucking head
when he wasn't looking, right?
That does happen.
Like we could, it does happen.
And Captain Marvel does come and save the day
as we'll see in that game,
but it isn't always that way.
This is storytelling.
This is, I mean, it's some stories being told
to some degree of quality.
The story is so good that we're talking about it right now,
even though that's how good it is.
The room is such a masterpiece of cinema
that we're still talking about it.
That's true.
It is really good.
The Phantom Menace is such an amazing film.
We all still remember it.
It's very good.
I love that little boy.
The bombing of Pearl Harbor was so wonderful
that we all still remember it.
We know where you're going now.
9-11 was definitely a good thing.
9-11 was just a trashy sequel to Pearl Harbor.
It was a cash cost.
The Holocaust is a lie.
You can't say that.
Okay, maybe that's true.
We never saw him page her,
but there's a lot of things we never saw Nick Fury do.
We never saw him get eaten by a shark,
but it doesn't really make sense to accept that.
Wait, what?
I'm confused now.
That's what you're saying.
Earth was that argument.
Okay.
This is a ridiculous thing that never did happen,
so we don't know that it didn't happen.
It's a weird way to put it,
but I think I follow what he's saying.
Maybe that's true.
We never saw him page her,
but there's a lot of things we never saw Nick Fury do.
We never saw him get eaten by a shark,
but it doesn't really make sense to accept that.
Well, perhaps he did.
Anyway, it doesn't make too much sense.
Oh, I get it.
I follow it.
It makes enough sense.
It's weirdly worded though.
Yeah, like the fact that Fury is alive.
Lifting up a window in the back of the house
as an escape route for our terrible decisions
that we've made.
As I'm understanding that he's saying
the fact that Fury is alive
means he didn't get eaten by a shark
and the fact that Captain Marvel
didn't show up in Avengers page her then.
Yeah, and you could be like,
well, you may have been eaten by a shark.
You're like, I guess.
He could have beaten.
And then he got pooped out.
Yeah, he was swallowed whole
and he ran out to the end and he pooped out.
I still think the best explanation they could give
and it would belong in Endgame is
she was like busy and he did page her,
but they just didn't show it
because, well, you know, she didn't exist then.
How about that be the throwaway line?
She'd be like, call me in an emergency,
but I can't promise I'll always be there.
She could say that.
But I mean, like, that would just,
I honestly feel like that would seem clunky.
And if the line is included in the game that solves it.
Yeah, I don't know if there's an Endgame
that'll be better than nothing, you know?
Yeah, but I'd still, that's what I mean.
I'd take it over the nothing.
I'll take clunky over nothing.
I'm saying it could still work out.
We don't know. It hasn't worked out yet.
I mean, they could put it in movie 57
and we'd be like, well, at least they finally addressed.
But like they were writing these ones at the same time.
So it'd be a retcon at that point.
It's like, you know, they knew what they wanted to do.
They had their reason set up.
To speculate about the ins and outs of why Fury
may or may not have called his BFF Captain Marvel
over all these years.
That's because Avengers Endgame,
which will fly into theaters next month,
will probably address Captain Marvel's whereabouts
in the time between her solo film
and the end of Infinity War.
Not only that, but it should also explain
why the heck she didn't rush to the aid
of Earth's mightiest heroes
when they weren't feeling all that mighty.
And hey, maybe she'll show off some of the pages
Nick Fury did send her over all those years.
Maybe he kept her up to date with those cool stars.
Maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe.
Yeah, we're gonna have to hope because, you know.
Our war is pretty cool.
She was missing while she was flying around in space.
Did Samuel L. Jackson ask for a purple light save?
You bet your ass I did.
Avengers Endgame opens in theaters on April 26th.
Perhaps before then, Marvel will release a montage
of all the times Fury tried and failed
to get Captain Marvel to swoop in to save the day.
I doubt it.
And Marvel's fan can dream.
Check out one of our newest videos right here.
No.
Wait, it won't do that, it won't do that.
I don't think the video was that bad.
I thought they just sort of explained.
They offered the best information they could find.
Yeah, they did it in a really long-blooded way, but.
Just calling it the real reason.
It's like, uh-huh.
Yeah, the title is garbage.
But I suppose it is time to wear a wig.
I think this was the best one so far, though.
I don't know, the fans did this one.
A lot more work was done than this one.
Yeah, this one is just, this one was really, ugh.
I functionally reported on the thing.
I was like, here's what could happen to fix this thing.
But it's going off of real comments by people involved,
you know, it's.
Yeah, it wasn't useful.
I'm like, yeah, there wasn't much to it, but.
They weren't helpful, they weren't helpful
because you want everything to be completed, right?
You want it all to be inclusive.
No, I just want things to make sense to not be clunky
because you can see it in the way
that they just add characters in like this.
This podcast is falling apart.
So the next guy is someone Jay is familiar with.
Oh, boy.
I'm a post.
This is one of his, I'm going to have three thumbnails
from his channel.
This is the kind of thumbnails he does.
This is the first one.
I'm excited to see which ones he picked.
Oh, no.
Yeah, that's a photoshopped thing.
Oh, no.
So that one's pretty bad,
but these next two are just really funny.
Is it a gauntlet one?
Is it going to be a?
What?
What?
I've never seen that one before.
Oh, boy.
How come I didn't notice Thanos standing behind her?
Why is the star on her chest supposed to be Thanos's face?
Because Thanos is Jewish.
Oh, and then Jay is very aware of this one.
This is probably the best thumbnail I've seen
from this channel.
The gauntlet one.
Yes.
What?
That's awful.
I don't know why so many questions.
They don't have the,
I think they just don't have the scale to make these properly.
So they're like, fuck it.
You know, what's funny is that this is,
this red skull's right arm.
Yeah.
And then a gauntlet.
And the gauntlet is clearly for the left.
He didn't even bother to flip it.
It would look way better.
Let's flip it.
It's not matched to the lighting.
It's wrong size.
Ring your hand.
It's just Thanos' face.
Okay.
So a top tier quality to be expected.
This one is called,
and again, we're getting progressively more clickbait,
but it's still not quite to the dregs yet.
Why the cat in Captain Marvel has more meaning
than you think.
What did she get?
As of this time, Captain Marvel's in theaters
and with it comes a few thoughts.
I hate his voice.
As of this time, Captain Marvel.
Please accept my condolences.
All right, I was going to cover this.
Well, now you can cover it twice.
Characters will affect the outcome of Avengers Endgame.
Nick Fury already served to summon Captain Marvel
before he died, and Captain Marvel herself
has already proven to be over-
This voice is too much.
Before, yeah.
Perpowered hero.
This sounds like a parody.
Travel and destroying Kree warships with no effort at all.
But there's another character who happens
to have the potential to turn the tide of things.
As strange as it sounds, this would be Goose.
Before we hop into the video,
remember to subscribe and turn notifications on.
Don't forget to subscribe.
Patience off.
Let me hear the phone.
Sorry, even the thumbnails they show
on the level of the family could.
Look at fucking Bruce Banner with his-
Look at Severus Snape.
He's mean.
Wait, they called-
Look at the juggernaut.
He's green.
Bruce Banner looks like he's dunked his hands
in something that he didn't want to dunk his hands in
and now he's mad about it.
Oh, he would if he-
Why is there-
He's got a falcon in the background, though.
Why?
He's about to swoop in and steal his hands.
Steal his hands.
Now leave a like and comment down below
saying you did so, and we will try to respond
to as many of you as we can.
I wanna see how many people they've responded to.
Goose only showed off one ability in the movie,
but this one ability showed a number of different uses.
At first, no one really believed that Goose was a flurkin,
courtesy of both her adherents.
What information-
Yeah, because it's-
Sorry, pause it.
The context.
A flurkin is this horrible Lovecraftian tentacle monster
and the joke is-
So it's Cthulhu?
Everyone keeps saying the cat is a flur-
Well, one guy keeps saying it and Fury doesn't believe them
and then the cat actually consumes like six people at once
with tentacles at one point.
Flurkin sounds like a bumpkin name.
Like something you'd hear in like Louisiana.
Flurkin-durkin.
A flurkin.
A flurkin.
Flurkin.
He uses them to swallow a group of man-sized enemy soldiers.
I guess Goose is that way.
That looks so weird.
Yeah, it's a bit much.
Goose's name was Chewie in the comics, right?
I don't know.
Yeah, Chewie Chewbacca.
It wasn't clear.
He changed it because of so though.
Can't swallowed a group of man-sized soldiers.
Man-sized soldiers.
That is-
It's opposed to-
Man-sized soldiers.
We, you know, generally when you say soldier,
most people, they will assume that it's a man-sized.
That's like the opposite of ant-man.
It's like normal-sized man.
A group of watermelon-sized soldiers.
And swallowed a couple of perfectly normal-sized human.
That's a blist.
Down right, freakish.
Along with the ability to eat people in masses,
Goose can also use her gaping maw to store and hide objects.
When the heroes get their hands-
How do we know it's storing and hiding it?
Because it-
That's what's so weird about that scene
when the cat, the flurkin, eats the Tess rat.
Why?
I don't know.
Why did you hide that?
I don't know why the Tess rat doesn't just-
Because nobody else wanted to touch it.
Nobody else wanted to have it in their hands.
From the gamma radiation.
They had it in a container.
No, they carried it around in a lunchbox and stuff.
It looked like one of those gushers
that you can buy at the corner store.
They wanted to take it out of the lunchbox
so they could use the lunchbox as a distraction.
She just ate it.
Well, those 60-
Yeah, those 60-year-old lunchboxes.
The cat is a TARDIS inside.
Alco-lugiel said,
would you rather fight one bad-sized soldier
or a hundred soldier-sized men?
A hundred soldier-sized men.
A familiar and powerful object from the MCU timeline
in the form of the Tessaract,
they have to play keep away with it from the bad guys.
Having seen what Goose is capable of firsthand,
I'm sorry, I can't take this seriously.
I'm literally looking at a cat on a Captain Marvel background
and I'm supposed to take this seriously.
I don't know why the voice didn't do that for you already.
It's not a cat.
It's a Flurgen.
Just knowing that there is a literal cat
that turns into a monster.
It's a monster that looks like a cat.
Yeah, there you go.
That makes it better to the world.
I'm never watching this movie.
Giving them a perfect way to smoke.
The joke is literally that people think it's a cat
and it's not.
That's like the joke.
That's a terrible joke.
Wolf isn't impressed.
Okay.
Sorry.
Okay.
Wolf is racist.
Well, it's like the rest of the humor in this film.
What's the punch line?
Oh, look, it's a cat, but it's not really a cat.
The punch line is that it's a Cthulhu-style fucking
Lovecraftian monster inside of a cat's body.
That's the joke, right?
They carry around everywhere they go for no reason.
Yeah, well, the cat follows them technically.
They don't carry it around.
The cat is part of the team now.
They literally do.
They carry it a couple times, yeah.
Yeah, but the cat, if it kept following them,
they'd like-
I don't actually, I don't know why it followed them as well.
It's kind of-
Yeah, because the cat knows.
The cat's not just a cat.
It's a fucking Flurgen or whatever.
And it's friends with Mar-Vell.
And he remembers what's her name
from being friends with Mar-Vell
back before Mar-Vell died, Brie Larson.
So Captain Marvel is familiar with the cat.
The cat knows there's something wrong
with Captain Marvel, but something that's more expanded.
You know, that's not the human version of Captain Marvel,
but this isn't the cat version of the Flurgen either.
This cat knows some shit.
Yeah.
A lot of that's not in the film, but I mean, you can-
I mean, it can be implied.
It can all be implied.
Yeah.
The pieces are there.
Just because they don't spell it out, the pieces are there.
Man-sized soldiers are implied.
So hang on.
I was under the impression that my flatmate wasn't here,
but it turns out he is.
So I can stay, but I have to be quiet
for the rest of the podcast.
That's all right.
So it just-
Hi.
Why do you have to be quiet?
This is what I sound like.
Because he's a fucking pussy.
You can't deal with noises late into the night.
Why isn't your computer in your room?
It is in my room.
It's a flat.
Like we have narrow walls.
But I'm moving out soon and getting my own place.
That'll be fine.
Yeah, Rags is upset about that, so.
This is student accommodation.
All right.
You don't live in things.
I'm not upset.
I'm just curious.
But no, I'm getting my own place like in a month.
So-
We're nearly done with the cat.
The problem is the Tesseract comes out
only when Goose wants it to.
It's only by the end credit.
I don't think you could argue that.
When it literally like coughs it up
as if it's like a gag.
You know what I mean?
But sure.
It's seen of the movie that Goose spits it out
like a hairball.
Which, even by MCU standards, is pretty strange.
The magnitude of Goose's abilities
probably hasn't been explored yet in full.
Essentially, Goose is not only a living Goose movie well.
I'm curious.
Do you think that there are any Avengers Goose could beat?
All of them.
Even have to mull.
She could fucking swallow it.
Goose is like-
But like in Thanos.
The extent of Goose's powers are equivalent
to whatever they need to have done.
Conveniently at the scene where she's in.
You could joke about it, but it's pretty fucked up
that something like that is just casually
in fucking Fury's office.
It's like that is pretty powerful.
It could probably kill Loki.
I think it's kind of fucked up
that someone would name a cat Goose.
It's like naming a dog heritage.
Yeah, we already have animals called Goose.
Or a hamster.
Geese.
It's named Goose after the dude from Top Gun, right?
I think so, yeah.
Goose is a cool name for a cool cat.
That's a little bit of fun.
Are you serious?
Depending on how fond he is of Bree.
It's the Top Gun reference.
She can have him-
Why would anyone be fond of Bree?
She's a very, very person.
It's my second favorite cheese.
She's massive.
What's your first favorite cheese?
Mozzarella.
That's fine.
Oh, that's a fair one.
I like it.
It melts nicely.
It's like, yeah, it just-
Because it's on pizza.
That's why you're saying this.
It's a little calorie, no carb.
Describe why you like a taste.
I don't know how.
Just, I think it tastes nice.
All right.
The Avengers fight against Thanos
and Casey still has a few more armies at his call.
Along with that,
anything that the Avengers need stored away for later use,
they can ask Goose for it.
It's kind of like having a giant-
I knew he was gonna make this the point of the video.
It's like, oh yeah, they're gonna call Goose in
when they need help.
The secure interdimensional suitcase.
Goose's disappearance.
Considering how crazy of a thing Goose is,
it's weird that she hasn't appeared
in any of the other MCU films.
That's not because it's a retcon.
Because you didn't make this until they made her up.
No, it's not a retcon.
She's not in those films because Goose didn't exist.
It makes perfect sense.
Even if she wasn't a retcon,
why else would she show up in another movie?
She exhibits retroactive continuity.
Why would she show up?
Why would she show up?
I don't know.
This creature, I don't know anything about this creature
or what it wants.
She's been hanging around secret bases the entire time.
Apparently.
They just let her do it too.
I love the fact that we're just looking at a picture
of a regular-ass cat and we're like,
I don't know what this creature is.
It's a flirt.
Outside of Captain Marvel.
The thing you got me with it was how much CGI
they used for a cat.
There's a lot of them.
It's like, that is a fucking cat.
Just find one.
Just find one.
What do you think's more expensive, the cat?
With a mustache.
Ooh.
A mustache.
Someone did that with fucking deep learning,
didn't they?
Remove that mustache.
You could do deep learning to render a cat.
Goose has its own page of the fury hat.
Just to call it in.
Little explanations for this.
Nick may have actually befriended.
He flies in like a Titan from Titanfall.
How to handle Goose after he secured
the Tesseract from him.
Considering Nick trusts nobody
and that he is the only person in SHIELD,
as far as we know.
Look at that scar.
How exactly did the cat do that?
My head cannon, as an alien creature,
it has bigger claws.
Also, wavy line claws.
Yes.
There's probably some necrotic poison
in the claws as well.
I can out head cannon you.
The scratch didn't just injure it,
also did a bit of weird poisony damage or something.
Yeah.
The spread, there you go.
He has another completely coincidental
unrelated IOD path afterwards.
Oh, that nose goose is actually a dangerous alien.
Maybe Nick uses him to hide away
his more closely kept secrets.
For example, if there was a piece of intelligence
that Nick didn't want within SHIELD's data,
or that Nick wanted to keep only to himself
or entrust to Captain Marvel,
he could have put the data on a drive or some other.
Unstored in a cat.
Is he actually going this far?
He's like.
How do you, it's an animal.
It can't understand you.
He's sort of a CD.
He's at random.
How do you get things back out of it,
the specific things that he wants?
There's no reason you can't do that with a.
Look.
You could put a USB drive in a normal cat.
It makes sense.
It would actually work better using a normal cat.
It unironically would.
Because then you could just kill the cat
and you could get the USB out of it.
But with this thing, it could go anywhere
so you never know where it is.
So it's not secure.
You can't get the things out of it that you need
because how could you possibly communicate that to the cat?
There's a million reasons why this is insanely stupid.
I love that.
That's the degree this gets to with theory videos.
It's like, maybe Fury stores secret data in the cat.
This is what Marvel,
this is what the stupid Captain Marvel movie does.
It makes people make videos like this.
Maybe the interdimensional cat go.
Next, it's been at this for way longer than Captain Marvel.
Oh, yes.
Drive or some other similar medium,
like maybe a floppy disk for Captain Marvel,
and store it within Goose.
Considering Captain Marvel has been gone for over two decades,
Nick may have a lot of secrets going away inside Goose
that the Avengers.
If you take that out of context, that sounds horrible.
It sounds not even out of context.
It's not even out of context.
In the movie, Nick Fury looks at that alien's dick, right?
So we know he's a pervert.
Yeah, that's true.
You know he's fucked that cat.
Well, at least try.
That's why the eye is even worse now,
because he was trying to bang that cat.
Oh, God.
Any information?
So, yeah, I think we're going to get a scene,
an endgame, where the cat vomits up a bunch of files
that Fury had ready for Captain Marvel over the years.
I think that's it.
He's got it.
Look at that thumbnail down there.
There's just a little X on Thanos' face,
and then there's a big arrow pointing to the random black dude.
Did you guys see that one?
Why Kree warriors will replace Thanos
as the villain in Avengers Endgame?
Oh, man.
No, fuck.
No.
They did one why Hawkeye will replace Thanos
as the villain in Avengers Endgame.
And again, no.
This looks awful.
Was it?
It's canon.
It's canon.
It's canon.
Fern's good.
We've got two left,
and these ones are more just hilarious
because of the titles,
and I suppose it's unfair,
because you'd be like, hey, man, they didn't know.
They thought they were right at the time,
and it's like, yeah, well.
Are they also Updex?
No, they're not.
We're moving on now.
Actually, wait, the second one might be...
Yeah, the last one is Updex again,
but this one is actually Captain Midnight.
Yeah.
This video is called,
Why X-Men Dark Phoenix Will Never Hit Theatres.
Oh, isn't it already confirmed to be in theaters though?
Yeah, he made it before he got confused.
Let's hear that one.
The video is brought to you by Audible.
You know, I don't consider myself
a very conspiratorial person.
The moon landing, definitely real.
Elvis probably died.
I mean, if he maintains this position,
he's lost his mind a bit.
1977.
But there's one conspiracy
that I'm really starting to latch onto.
X-Men Dark Phoenix is never, ever going...
Remember when men sounded like dudes?
You know?
I don't know what you mean.
Everyone sounds like this.
I'm sorry, he just sounds like...
So many guys sound like women.
So you're saying men have to sound a certain way
and women have to...
You're a fucking dinosaur, dude.
Get with the times, Jesus.
Racist.
They need to get with the times.
Going to be released traditionally in theaters.
That may sound pretty dumb,
and you know, maybe it is.
There's a decent chance
that you can all revisit this video
around this time next year
and have a good laugh at my expense.
Hey!
I wouldn't really blame you.
But lately, while I've been thinking
about Dark Phoenix and Disney a lot,
and the more I do,
the more unlikely...
Wait, why did he...
This is why it's clickbait.
He said it'll never hit theaters.
And then in the video, he's like,
you know, it might do.
It's like, oh.
Oh.
All right.
The real release of this movie seems to me.
Oh fuck, I forgot.
He's the dude who just has random cuts
to something.
You remember this shit?
Guys, we've covered him before.
More random...
The influence of Tonald is spreading.
It's worse than Tonald
because Tonald will usually have...
You could argue this is relevant.
The idea is that he's playing,
you know, like, see, this is like X-Men cartoon
while he's talking about X...
But it's still just like, wait, what?
What?
What?
He doesn't talk about this footage at all.
It's just like his thumb thing.
So for those of you who don't know,
which is probably not many of you,
so I'll try to keep this part short,
Disney is acquiring Fox
in a deal that's historic, massive,
and pretty deeply troubling
from a media consolidation perspective.
But I'm here to talk about the X-Men,
so let's stick with that.
Many MCU fans, myself definitely included,
are really excited to see
how Kevin Feige and company
work everyone's favorite mutants
into the already huge MCU.
There's a ton of exciting possibilities there.
So much so that I actually already made a video about it.
Eh, I don't trust it's a great video.
Oh, really?
Oh, yeah.
I can't say...
You can't even agree with yourself.
A lot of people like Captain Midnight.
I've never been impressed by his videos.
It feels bad, man.
Well, he can't even agree with his own video.
He's super clickbait, but, you know,
as we've discovered today,
does clickbait mean it'll be bad content?
Not necessarily.
Not 100% of the time.
Even if you're saying that he said the M-word.
He's true.
But then there's Dark Phoenix,
the sequel to the not exactly beloved X-Men apocalypse,
and the last gasp of the X-Men Fox franchise.
Are you really saying that?
Not exactly beloved.
Just say that it sucked.
Yeah, I think he likes to not commit sometimes.
Except in his fucking title when he says
that he would never get to theaters.
This video he didn't commit to.
I wouldn't call that like fucking being cowardly or that.
It's just a way to phrase something, you know?
You're right.
It is a way to phrase something.
It's not a non-committal way, yes.
It's just a very non-committal way of phrasing something.
I just took that as being cheeky, like,
oh, not exactly beloved.
Wait, I just say it sucked.
Because it did.
Who liked that?
I mean, the only good scene in that whole movie
was the Quicksilver scene.
And you could just watch that on YouTube.
Pretty much.
And I always loved that Quicksilver's like
jokey and happy about it.
And then they're like, did you save the brother?
And he was like, nope.
Who?
And it's like this moment of like,
oh my God, my brother's dead.
And he's just like, yeah, sorry.
I've got to call the rest of them.
I don't know.
Well, not included.
Anyway, I find the position that Dark Phoenix is in
to be really, really interesting,
because I can't think of anything like it in film history.
Sure, there's stuff like what happened
to the Drew Goddard Joss Whedon horror movie,
Cabin in the Woods,
where the completely broke MGM was taken over
by a new regime who didn't really want to release the movie.
And it ended up sitting on a shelf for a long time
before eventually being sold to Lionsgate
and released by them.
But Dark Phoenix is definitely different.
X-Men is a brand name.
And to Marvel, it's now a highly important one.
And there's probably no company more aware
of the value of a brand name than Disney.
And now they have a huge amount of interest
in making sure that value is not diminished.
We're very happy to have you back.
Just.
So all he said so far is that like they've acquired Fox
and they don't wanna...
Is the argument just gonna be
that they don't want X-Men to exist
in a way that's not theirs?
Because it already does anyway, so.
You know, and it's not like Disney,
we've got three Spider-Mans that are significantly known.
You've got fucking, like all of the older,
so like Ghost Rider, Daredevil, Punisher,
and a couple of others.
All of them are gonna get MCU visions eventually, probably.
They're all Fox properties, right?
Or are they?
I can't remember.
They better still cast Nicholas Cage.
I think Daredevil and Ghost Rider were universal,
or maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think they were Fox.
Fox had the X-Men, right?
Either way, Marvel don't care.
They will make another.
They will keep going.
What a short visit.
It's wonderful to see you again, Professor.
What does this have to do with everything?
I don't know.
Spider-Man.
It's gotta pad out that eight minute video.
It feels really fucking odd,
but I guess it's just something he's always gonna do.
Hacks from a few years ago.
One of the most interesting things to come of those,
well, from a superhero fan perspective at least,
was getting to see Kevin Feige's notes to Sony
on Amazing Spider-Man 2,
where he points out all the movie's failures,
especially honing in on the character of Peter Parker.
Wait, he criticized the movie to them directly?
That seems mean, but okay.
I think fine.
Saying that the movie's spy parents subplot underlined-
You can never be too mean to the Amazing Spider-Man.
I agree.
It's just, you know, I always expect them to be corporate
and like, no, we're all friends.
Yeah, that Peter is just a normal kid from Queens
and saying that Garfield Spider-Man
needs to be more honorable and less wishy-washy.
And remember, this is long before Marvel started
working with Sony on Homecoming.
It just needs to be less terrible.
I was just like, less wishy-washy.
I'd be like, could you, what?
Taking the film.
But it's pretty clear they think even a bad movie
featuring a Marvel character
could hurt their most valuable IP.
Is that all that means, really?
Like, he said bad movie was bad,
therefore he doesn't like his IP being tainted.
I think if anything, he might see it as a good thing
because it means that people have more faith
in the MCU than any other properties for superheroes.
Yeah, if every other superhero movie is shit,
then everyone's gonna come to the MCU.
Yep.
Back to Dark Phoenix.
Unlike Amazing Spider-Man 2,
Dark Phoenix is now Disney's to do with it what they want.
So it's safe to assume no one's gonna be ignoring
Kevin Feige's notes this time around.
It's well known that they're doing a few weeks of reshoots,
not the three months that some places online
previously reported.
So yeah, you can see that as proof
that the movie's still out.
But I'm not so sure.
That movie looks like it's gonna be funny.
These reshoots were scheduled
before the acquisition was finalized and voted on.
But more importantly, the cost of the reshoots
and really the entire cost of Dark Phoenix
isn't that much money to a conglomerate as huge as Disney.
Yep, wait.
Just pick, okay.
Like the idea that it's like,
eh, it didn't cost us too much.
It's not too much of a drop of it.
It's like, yeah, but compared to just putting it out
to get money?
Yeah, like-
Go ahead.
What they're talking, what he's talking about is,
essentially, if it's a business,
so they don't wanna taint their IPs by releasing a film,
well, you know, muddy people's vision of it.
So the idea there would be that they lose money
by releasing this film,
but they're not gonna lose the amount of money
they would make from releasing the film, are they?
Like, they're not gonna lose a billion dollars in,
or however much in-
The MCU, it's gonna have to do a lot to kill itself, right?
Like the MCU would need a lot of bad movies in a row,
come close to making people go,
eh, let's not watch the MCU anymore.
I don't even think that's gonna happen.
Not for a long time.
In the chat, the grouchy gamer pointed out
that we're being a little bigoted
by calling her Dark Phoenix.
It should be Phoenix of Color, if that's true.
We will, we will watch that from now on, sorry about that.
This podcast is getting a little edgy for me.
If they think the smart thing for X-Men,
the brand is starting from scratch,
and they know they have a bad,
or honestly, even mediocre movie on their hands,
I can see them quietly-
Well, but they put out-
Just me knowing they have a bad movie.
I don't think that's a thing.
I don't think that's ever happened with Disney.
We have to deal with two sons this year.
Instead of spending millions more to market a movie
they really have no faith in.
Now, okay, if Dark Phoenix is actually a great movie,
especially after the reshoots,
that could be a different story.
That's not gonna happen.
But if it isn't, I absolutely think that Disney and Marvel
would be willing to stomach losing the 180 million or so
it took to make.
No, they're not losing the money it took to make.
That was Fox's money, wasn't it?
But they're not losing the money it took to make.
They're losing the money it would make in theaters.
Yeah, that's the money they're actually losing.
Could be a pretty small price to pay
to make sure that audiences aren't soured on the X-Men
even more than they already are.
Especially after Apocalypse's pretty disappointing box office.
Wait, was it, did it flop?
Let me check.
Apocalypse.
I can't imagine it did that well.
Is it just it didn't do as well as they wanted it to?
Yeah.
Especially because like,
there was a slew of pretty good X-Men movies before that.
So I think it was, there was more hype around that point.
I don't think it bombed just in the world.
It cost 178 million.
So let's call that just over 300 million probably.
And it grossed 543 million.
So yeah, it made, it made enough money back.
Probably not as much as they wanted,
but definitely successful.
Also terrible.
Was it 340?
Is that what it said?
Was how much it cost?
No, well, so it cost 178 million,
but typically double it.
Oh, okay.
That's not bad.
Yeah, that's not bad.
Why, dang it, why double it?
For marketing.
Marketing.
All right.
The MCU is famously very planned out ahead of time
with Marvel saying they have 20 movies planned
for after infinity war.
So I just don't see them being thrilled
with pushing out.
This looks so cool.
A movie that doesn't really fit into the MCU at all.
Looks like a blue quinna.
I have killed the Kool-Aid man.
My cranberry glaze.
Our walls are-
Then there's the release date.
After being shut down-
Oh, she's in this movie too.
I'm pretty sure judging from the trailer,
she's going to die early.
We can only hope.
I hope to God that happens.
Can you explain the problem with her?
Life's an hour.
Yes.
Because she's awful.
That's not an explanation though.
Extremely flat delivery of the characters.
It's extremely confusing.
Like she seemed,
because of her fame with the Hunger Games
coming out just after the first appearance
she had in X-Men,
they decided to bank on her
instead of having it be Mystique.
She's now leader of the X-Men,
the unwilling hero who's constantly thrust
into positions where she doesn't even want to be in them.
It's complicated to break it down exactly why,
but I find her insufferable in the X-Men movies.
I find her insufferable in pretty much every movie
because she's just a wooden slate.
I don't typically enjoy it.
She's one of-
I would be willing to say
she's one of the most overrated actresses ever.
She's really awful.
X-Men's very sexist.
She was good in mother.
She should be X people.
I didn't see mother.
I heard a lot of bad things about it.
Oh, it was a crazy fucking movie,
but like-
Isn't it like old metaphor?
Yeah, it's allegory for the Bible, basically.
But no, she did well.
Like she played a pretty fucked up part.
I heard you like allegories,
so we made some allegories of your allegories.
She wasn't in room chat.
That was Brie Larson.
That was-
I was 19.
I know they're one of the same, but-
No, no, no, Jennifer Lawrence, she played The Room.
Oh, no.
Fantastic performance.
Got it.
Dark Phoenix is now slated to come out
on February 14th, 2019,
which is actually a pretty great spot.
It's similar to Black Panther's release date and, you know-
Oh, that got pushed.
That turned out pretty well,
but it's also less than a month before-
Sure, all on its first-
It was well marketed.
Yeah, based entirely on its quality.
Tyler Perry movies do really well,
so Black Panther was Marvel and Tyler.
How many Medias are there now?
Too many?
Yes.
One is too many.
That turned out pretty well,
but it's also less than a month before-
Should we do a Media movie for our little side project?
Yeah, boy.
Oh, yeah, we could do it.
Marvel is released.
Media gets an abortion.
It just doesn't seem like great schedule-
Is that her one?
It could be.
I don't fucking know.
I've never watched one of those.
You have to ask, which is-
Well, that's the thing, is like-
Media goes to Wakanda.
That wouldn't be a far-fetched conclusion.
Media gets an abortion.
Come on, Tyler Perry, if you haven't already done it.
Get on.
Less than a month before the first MCU movie of the year,
Captain Marvel is released,
which just doesn't seem like great scheduling to me.
And if I was Marvel,
I definitely wouldn't want X-Men taking that earlier slot.
Add to that the fact that Dark Phoenix
had no presence at Comic Con,
an event that Fox has really gone all out for in the past,
and things just don't look too good
for that February release date.
All right, so here's my-
She joins the KKK.
I admit this could be a little far-fetched,
so, you know, break out the tinfoil hats.
I think one of two things is gonna happen.
Either D-
He sounds nothing like his avatar.
He sounds the opposite of what his avatar would sound like.
Captain-
Okay, he's smashing preconceived ideas
of what a hero sounds like.
He looks strong.
He looks confident.
He looks heroic.
He looks intelligent.
And this is like the polar opposite of all of that.
The D-Averse is leper cold.
It's like there's a small person
hiding inside this robot body.
Medea beats Thanos.
Medea expects-
Medea invades Iraq.
Medea invades-
Medea invades-
Medea invades Iraq.
Medea invades Iraq.
Disney will bury this movie with almost zero promotion
and hope that it doesn't embarrass itself too much,
and it just kind of-
Has he met Disney?
They released a lot of things that are embarrassing.
Have you seen the Aladdin trailer?
Have you seen Black Panther?
Have you seen A Wrinkle in Time?
No, it's a weird, weird as he thinks they have.
Eyes under the radar.
Or, and this is the much more interesting option, I think,
they save it until the release
of the upcoming Disney streaming service
and have the movie there as an exclusive on launch day
as one of many things to entice people to sign up.
I think this would be really smart for all sorts of reasons.
It means they spend less on marketing,
it doesn't interfere with Captain Marvel's scheduling,
and it's a way to quietly shunt the movie to the side
without completely-
There are three blue people in this movie.
There are three blue people, and none of them agree.
That's interesting.
I'll let you know there are three blue people.
It's a very rich universe.
Dude, the costumes look awful.
Well, in fairness, this isn't end product,
they haven't gotten color grading
or potential CGI additions.
Like Vision doesn't look very good in shots like this
compared to the movies.
Yeah, Vision?
Yeah.
This has Bryan Singer in it as well, so.
You know, the Bryan Singer-
Bryan Singer's just chilling there in the picture.
Oh, I thought you meant like here.
No, what I'm suggesting
is just that there may be some post stuff
that they haven't got.
Who knows?
I can't remember how crap they looked in the movie.
It's his name, Vision 2.
I can't remember who it was.
No, no, that's Cyclops.
No, that's Jory LaForge.
Oh, right.
Oh, yeah.
He's an engineer on the Starship Enterprise,
and he uses the visors so he can see.
He has two eyes though.
So does Jory LaForge.
Yeah, but they combine into one beam,
so he's Cyclops, okay?
People have two eyes.
Two eye clips.
People.
Duo clips.
It's clear that Disney is betting big on a streaming service.
The video you're like,
what's happens when a Cyclops gets another eye?
Is it a biclops or diclops?
It's normal.
They call him normal.
Normal.
My secret power is I have two eyes.
I'm normal, man.
I want to call myself duo clips now.
If anyone ever asks me about it,
that information is two eyes, isn't it?
Yeah, two eyes.
That's why I chose it.
Without completely shelving it.
It's clear that Disney is betting big
on a streaming service.
With some executives even calling it
the future of the company.
So where Dark Phoenix could be
a very high profile embarrassment for them
if it does badly in February,
it would be a huge asset.
I'm sorry, these are really awkward.
Oh, sad, sir.
Disney streaming.
I mean, think about it.
What other streaming service launched
with a massive blockbuster exclusive to their service?
Cyclops size to man.
It's like if CBS All Access had launched
with Star Trek Beyond and Star Trek Discovery.
Which is a pretty hard proposition to pass up for fans,
even if they're already paying for HBO and Netflix.
Yeah, but people don't really like Star Trek Discovery.
What was that?
Dude joins the Navy.
What was the thumbnail for this video?
Cause there's always a,
he's like down with thrust with thumbnails.
I like the way they look.
Madea assassinates Hitler.
They're always yellow.
Yeah, but he always has like a set of words,
if you know what I mean.
The last Madea.
I always have a set of words.
I think you know what I'm talking about, right?
I know what I know that I say you're going for them.
I mean, I reload it all look exactly the same.
They've all got the yellow background.
Half of them is a picture and half of them are.
Oh, it's the passion of the Madea.
Save the private Madea.
Madea is Godzilla.
Madea revolution days of who's your Madea?
The once and future Madea.
Oh, yeah, that's a 20, 90.
The thumbnail has a, the movie novel doesn't want to be ready.
Medea one.
Ascent of the day.
The Medea.
Medea invades Iraq.
Chronicles of Medea, Medea, but with women.
The last Medea.
Avatar, the last Medea.
Revenge is infinity, Medea.
Children, children of Medea, Pacific Medea,
Mass Effect, Andromeda.
The shape of Medea.
The Medea purple, Jurassic Medea.
The Medea stone, the Medea tricks.
Fumidea three.
Black Medea.
Oh, yeah.
I Medea.
And we already know that Marvel along with Star Wars will be a huge part of
attracting people to the service.
After all, it has to offer something for people who just aren't that interested in
the Disney classics.
So, yeah, I'm making this bet now.
If you ever do see Dark Phoenix and won't be in theaters, put it on your Roku laptop,
PlayStation or whatever.
But I want to know, what do you think?
Do you want the movie on the big screen?
Would it be OK streaming?
At least he had the, you know, the intelligence to ask the audience to share
what they think.
God, I bet he wouldn't consider this a bad video even now.
Well, it's the title.
Fuck the title.
You could actually hold this video like why I think Dark Phoenix won't hit theaters.
And I'd be like, yeah, that's that was a fair video.
Why Dark Phoenix might not come to theaters.
Instead, it's why X-Men Dark Phoenix will never hit theaters.
Never.
Or do you think the studio should just dump it all together?
And which do you think is most likely?
This is one where I'd really love to read your thoughts and comments.
You know, if there's one thing a good X-Men story absolutely has to nail,
it's the team dynamics.
Well, I like how he took the efforts to properly Photoshop his avatar.
Yeah, you'd think you'd want to get rid of those white splodges, but.
If I put it on my video, well, the thing is, you only have to do it once and you
just save the file and it's done forever.
Like when I was getting my art for my channel, every once in a while that would
happen and I'd go in and some of I just clean up myself, just clip the edges and
then I'd paste them on the discord so you could see them on the dark background and
you could pick them out and you could fix them.
I mean, it's just, you don't have to do it once.
Captain Midnight, if you're watching this, send me that and I will do it.
I will cut that out.
I will cut that out and I will send you a PNG of a beautifully cropped version of
your avatar.
Wrinkle in my teeth.
That's what I want in most genre fiction, really, but it's really hard to balance
that with big larger than life sci-fi stories.
So I want to recommend one book that managed to do it incredibly well.
Oh, this is an audible plug.
Play to a small angry planet.
All right.
All right.
All right, Captain Midnight.
We'll see you again soon.
Maybe one day, but that, you know, it's just.
You got to title your videos that way.
Otherwise they won't get clicks, guys.
Um, I still can't get over this.
This is the, the end of the line.
This is, um, is the one that I think is pretty hilarious in fairness.
This is all I can say.
It came out, you know, just after infinity war.
So there was no guarantee, but even then I think it's pretty silly.
It's from up next and it's called, uh, why Thor won't be in Avengers four.
Now we love to speculate about what could happen in the next Marvel movie.
It is the bread and butter of what we do and what we intend to continue.
The look of the thingy immediately says, why Thor may not be in Avengers four.
It's like, but that wasn't the title of it just openly said is because it's our
bread and butter.
We click bait.
That's what we do.
We talk about movies, like other fun facts.
Don't have the first sentence of your video, make the title wrong.
I don't know, man.
It's just, it's just the way you gotta do.
But as easy as it is to speculate about what could happen, we also need to take
into account what will absolutely happen and what will potentially not happen at
all.
So we asked ourselves, who will not be in the upcoming fourth Avengers movie?
And most importantly, why?
And we landed on Thor Odin son of Asgard.
So climb on our backs as we flap our wings and fly through valleys of the Marvel
universe, lore, creepy backstories, and freaky diggy theories to land on.
Why?
Oh, why the God of thunder may not make it to the fourth Avengers flick.
We reply to every single one of you.
All you know, you don't get a reply.
It's a broad talk to me.
I don't believe for a second that he responds to everybody.
Gotta say that stuff.
Otherwise, you know, you might be looked at as someone who's unreasonable.
I got to, I got to click on this video and I'm going to look through the
comments and see, he might actually like be crazy and reply to everybody.
I don't know.
No, he, the very first top comment he hasn't replied to.
Oh, well, well, you know, or the second, literally all the top comments are just
how he's wrong.
Because Thor is in Avengers.
I don't know.
It's a weird take.
Someone said I subbed and he did see things.
We got a bot for real.
Something below saying you did so.
In any case, you know, this, uh, this, uh, you call yourself Lord of thunder.
God of thunder.
I've never met this man in my life.
Why is he playing?
This was a clip.
This is a clip from Thor.
He's talking about the guilt.
All right.
So these are arguments for why he won't be in the fourth one.
The guilty war was a massive undertaking with over a dozen A-list actors
playing vital characters, along with 50 or so other actors and actresses,
all playing actress actors, vital roles to bring the whole story.
America with his beard photoshopped on.
That does.
Yeah.
Cause that doesn't look right.
It looks really weird without his beard and photoshopped to be at onto him.
So it looks right.
That doesn't yeah.
Wait, do you think, do you think the guys who made this video did that?
Or do you think that's actually part of promotional material?
No, no, no, it can't be that they wouldn't do that.
Hold on.
I'm going to look at who are you going to believe me or your guys.
Beard, because the beard doesn't look the same.
It's not that thick.
Yeah, I don't know that it doesn't go over the shape of his face.
It's just here.
I got to hold a picture of it.
This is not that cannot be his real beard.
No, look at Thor's eye patch as well.
Yeah, look underneath, look underneath the chin there, right?
The shape of his jaw is messed up.
It's like his face is twisted because the beard is not centered.
This channel wouldn't have done that.
I feel like I feel like this must be, oh my God.
Thor's head is photoshopped.
Yeah, look, look at the neckline.
Wait, what's wrong with the neckline?
Look at it.
It's too angular.
They photoshopped his head.
I want to, I want to zoom back out so we can see if they fucked with Tony.
All right, they fucked with Tony in vital care.
He looks okay, but they definitely photoshopped Captain.
Yeah, that beard is photoshopped on.
That is not a real beard.
You know what?
This is probably movies.
I imagine this was made by somebody, not Disney, and then skill up took it again.
Oh, sorry.
What's this called up next?
That's the one I actually I guess what has happened is they just googled.
Um, they googled it and they took one of the things they're like, I think they did more.
I think they might have photoshopped his lips because look, look at the picture
I put in the discord chat and then compare it to the one on screen.
I think all we need to do is find the original versions of these pictures.
I understand why you may want to talk about things like that right now,
but there's something that takes a more pressing matter, I'm afraid, and it is this.
What is this?
Oh, they even put it on back with.
Yeah, no, Medea war.
Don't do it, Medea.
Oh, Medea has fallen.
Medea battle angel black Medea down.
Clockwerk Medea.
Medea's bizarre adventure.
Along with 50 or so other actors and actresses all playing vital roles
to bring the whole story together.
Even Red Skull was found to be defending the soul stone in deep space,
although Hugo Weaving decided not to reprise his role as the character
due to artistic differences.
All of these characters were packed into a two hour movie
and each one had their own role to play.
I mean, I actually imagined the character of Red Skull
to be completely different than what they portrayed.
I heard it was just because he didn't like the process.
Yeah, that's what I know.
That's an autistic difference right there.
The thing is, he's probably willing to come back now, right?
Because they mainly just do they put him in pajamas
and then they do the rest and put on a fucking mask, Elrond.
Yeah, Elrond.
One of the movie had the absolute opportunity to be seen as a Nazgul.
He looks bad in front of the other elves.
Stop Thanos in his tracks.
Theories have circled about which superhero could have killed him and how many
pointing to Chris Pratt's Star Lord, preventing the Avengers
from taking the Infinity Gauntlet from Thanos's hand
while Thanos was under Mantis's hypnosis.
But one character.
Look at his beard there.
That's definitely not photoshopped.
Well, yeah, the other photo was definitely fucked with.
So lose chance to stop with that.
Well, this is the thing.
I don't know what would compel you to do that.
I don't know if it was him or if he just found someone's fucking fan creation.
You know, I assume it's someone someone's fan creation, but still,
why not just get a picture where he has a beard?
Why don't like, oh, he was rushing the shit out of these videos.
Come on.
You know, I mean, I mean, I'm talking in terms of the fan who made that picture.
Dead Madea society.
Broke back, Madea.
Guardians of the Madea.
Three tend to media.
The Dark Madea Rises.
Madea Skull Island.
Grand theft of Madea.
Madea Skull Island is good.
You can tell that this one is a fan creation, too,
because none of the lighting lines up in any way.
Well, Spider-Man's lighting between the characters.
Oh, look at Gamora's lighting.
She's lit from Doctor Strange.
Up Thanos and failed.
Absolutely. And that was Thor.
You see, Thor was the only Avenger who had a weapon in hand
that had the power to stop Thanos.
Thor swung his new weapon.
Stormbreaker to the living with you.
I was actually going to say, just like this video is just wrong.
So just like move on.
I've got a suggestion if you want to.
Oh, my God.
Well, it is like eight minutes.
There's eight more minutes of this.
Say we're at four hours.
We've got to do super chats, but it's really up to everybody.
If you want to. What was your suggestion?
I've got a three minute video of why
Spider-Man Far From Home is fake and will never be released.
And they just shot the trailers to trick people.
Well, I mean, it sounds like you see,
I find that to be a fun theory rather than like a crazy person.
Yeah, I think it's a fun theory.
Yeah, that's like, yeah, that's like a like a crazy conspiracy theory fun.
While you know, we'll be in Avengers.
Yeah, you will actually Laura Dern.
Medea, Medea's, Medea, the White House, Medea Resurrection, Mac,
Medea Covenant.
Well, it wouldn't.
Oh, it Prometheus.
From Medea.
I'm surprised you can get a three minute video out of this, obviously.
Medea, Medea, Medea, Medea, that's so much.
The night of the seven Medea's dude.
But the theory is totally a great piece of art to be honest.
Bailin Bailin, please draw Medea.
Complete free control on how to organize that.
Whatever comes to mind when you hear the name, but do you think
a picture like the dude's body with like her head, but like still muscular and blue,
but she's like pale blue.
E-Fam every frame of Medea.
Yeah, I'm probably going to move on to girl super chat if that makes enough sense,
because I go for it.
Yeah, I was sure that was a wonderful run through the wonders of clickbait.
And if you want to be successful on YouTube, that's what you do, guys.
OK, learned well from the best.
If ever you lie in your video title, all you need to do is immediately say
you're not saying that in the beginning of the video.
Medea and the Beast.
Medea the fridge.
How do you feel about that, Billy?
Pisses me the fuck off.
I saw Medea boo to Halloween in the theaters,
and it wasn't even the worst movie I saw that week.
What was the worst movie you saw that week?
I saw two movies worse than that.
I saw Suburbicon, which was George Clooney doing the Coen Brothers like script.
He directed it.
That was so bad.
And then The Snowman with Michael Fassbender.
Yeah, Snowman was really bad.
I couldn't believe how terrible those movies were.
Did you know that they didn't finish?
They they just didn't finish the movie.
Yeah, they're like, you know what?
We're done.
The Snowman, they had like 20 percent of the movie left to film,
and they just pieced out.
I think it was more like the villain falling through ice.
Yeah, like they literally didn't film half of the movie
because they gave up and then they put it out anyway.
Yeah, is that why that it just ends with the villain just like,
oh, he fell over and died.
It's it explains everything.
That's true.
Why have you seen that and you haven't seen the other Lord of the Rings films?
I don't want to see it in the cinema.
Yeah, you need to be hunted like regularly.
So anyway,
take YouTube's money.
Loved your April Fool's video rags.
Ten out of ten would drink rhino milk and slice and dice again.
What? Yeah, fuck.
I didn't actually talk about that.
This is the April Fool's video got released.
I hope Chat loved it because it was basically all effap references.
Also, the video of us watching it as well.
I figured that would have been fun.
Yeah, here's to another year of collecting quotes ready for 2020.
Which, by the way, I'm kind of like hoping I never get the time delays
just because I don't know how to top number two's editing
because it's like it's maximum pretentious levels.
And, you know, I'm going to have to evolve Godelb in some way, shape or form.
But yeah, anyway,
I'd love to stay, but I'm currently pirating Captain Marvel,
so I'm not lost in endgame slice and dice toxic brood nights.
Oh, it's you don't need a watch.
Honestly, you honestly don't.
Uh, afraid I'll be missing this stream as Shazam is about to start,
but I'll be sure to tune in later.
Hail the toxic brood.
Those from Blessed South Pole, by the way.
See, good old South Pole.
Enjoy Shazam.
What do pandas taste like?
Uh, long pig.
Oh, no. Long.
Uh, from Ethan Francisco.
Billy, how good is the Last Jedi?
Also, panda milk.
Last Jedi is one of the greatest Star Wars movies.
It was incredible, right?
Like, would you call it a masterpiece?
So would you?
I would. Yeah, I would say that Ray and Johnson took a risk,
which that's never been done in Star Wars before.
I would agree with that.
But nothing beats like Madea in Star Wars.
Mission impossible, Madea.
What if Snoke is actually just Madea?
Oh, shit.
Uh, here, enjoy this.
Love everyone's content.
Mola, pray for the cure to my addiction to cock.
All right.
Thoughts on Super Eyepatch Wolf?
Am I the only person who knows that is first of all?
Anyone else recognize that name?
I don't know.
So he's a video essayist on YouTube that we have covered.
Yeah, he did a video explaining where and why The Simpsons became bad,
and it was pretty good as a Simpsons fan.
I was like, man, he nailed it.
And then he said, like, I realized that he kind of does it for everything.
And and he's extremely over the top about all content.
Oh, is this the day X thing died?
Yeah. And like I started watching this.
I've been like, I don't believe you're that genuine anymore.
You might be, but it's just like really off put
him when you're this like this with everything.
I don't think I've watched a video of his and thought, wow, that was really bad.
But I haven't watched much of him at all.
So apparently no one else said of him so.
Jay, really enjoying your work over at Jason X X X dot com.
Keep up the good work.
Well, thank you.
I put my work and my work and soul into that.
I'd say I'm pretty sure that's how the phrase goes.
You guys say you like the first and second Pirates movies,
but think the third one is really bad.
I like the third one.
Can you explain why you don't like it?
Oh, God, where do we begin?
That's a that's a very heavy question.
Like, legit, the everything.
The only thing I like about the movie, I think, is Barbossa.
Let's think about it.
I guess the final fight was it was fun. Hmm.
Music was good.
They ruined David Jones.
Yeah, that was the part that broke my heart,
because when I watched that again, I was like,
they really destroyed this character.
How did they ruin it?
Because I've seen that they made it like everybody's pet dog
right up until the end, but then he still dies.
Oh, for example, like,
oh, well, do you remember when they have his heart in the chest
and they walk? Yeah, all he could.
All he had to do is just literally reach out, grab it and then
tell his men who can kill everybody to kill all of the people who can be killed.
Exactly. And yet in moments like that,
he'll be like, what are you doing on my ship?
That sort of shit.
And then fucking the short dude, the one who's like Farquhar,
he's like, you will do as you are.
Come on, dude. And it's like, oh,
David Jones is supposed to be like a legend of the sea,
like the grim reaper of the sea.
And there's this asshole shortman telling him like, sure,
you can't do this and you can do this.
Like, it's like the most.
Oh, and when when they like negotiate on that little island
and just like standing in a bucket, that was so insulting.
Not only is it insulting, but it completely ruins everything about him.
If he can go on land, but he just needs a bucket, then who cares?
Then why doesn't he just like strap a couple buckets to his feet?
Listen, he's not supposed to be a landman.
So, but he's supposed to be a swimming pool on wheels.
Seaman.
They carried that mermaid around for the entire fourth movie.
Just get him a box like that with wheels on it.
Yeah. And then there's the plot, which it might be the most nonsensical
plot in all the Pirates films.
Oh, my God. All the deals that they make.
This constant backstabs deals to keep track of is funny.
Where is it like so low?
No, it's more deals that it's so low.
Literally, like, I don't think there's been a movie with more deals
than Pirates of the Caribbean.
They broke. There were deals within deals.
You can't. It was like everybody and you can't keep track of what the fuck.
Like, you just like, oh, there were so many characters
you could barely tell what was going on.
The fact that his little thing on his head turns out to be
one of the pieces of eight.
Remember that? It's just like, oh, yeah.
And then Jack Sparrow's dad just randomly.
They need the pieces of eight to summon Calypso.
And one of them happens to be the guy's eye.
Oh, yeah. Remember that scene when Calypso turns into a giant person
and then she starts screaming incoherently, turns into a bunch of crabs
and then the crabs turn into a whirlpool that's not affected by everything else.
What exactly was good about Pirates of the Caribbean 3?
If we can say the question around
that movie is a disaster, but the fifth one is still the worst.
Like the action is fun and the music is good.
And that's pretty much it.
Jeffrey Rush being Barbosa.
Yeah, he's not in the rest of the movies from there on.
No, the fourth and fifth movie, it was like, oh, please just kill him.
Just get him out of here.
Yeah, hopefully that answers that.
Hello, all my M words.
I have seen more than three minutes of this eFap and wasn't bored.
Also, I can look at a dog.
So this is subjectively better than TLJ.
I agree with all of that.
Mola, did you see Hello, Greedos dig at you in the last vid?
No, he made a dig at you.
I didn't even watch the video.
No, but nobody saw that because nobody watches Hello, Greedos video.
Hello, Greedos.
Except for except for us.
When we cover him, we couldn't put it on of it.
We'll put it on after Superchasters to see the opening.
But if you're talking about the one where he says it ruins the Star Wars franchise,
I don't think I've ever said the words it ruined the Star Wars franchise.
Because we said it, we said it ruined Star Wars.
But generally, we mean something when we say.
Well, I was going to say, if I ever did say it, I would probably be specific
because the idea is like, if you're like, oh, you they're still going to make money.
I'd be like, oh, yeah, that's totally not what I'm referring to.
But, yeah, whatever.
We'll we'll check it out before we finish, as long as someone reminds me.
Jay, why are you such a cute little shit?
On Jay, people want to fucking know.
Well, what's the question?
One of my parents is a shit.
So I I formed the the one that is.
Are you half shit on your dad's side?
Let's go with that. Sure. Yeah.
You sing men are shit and women aren't.
Yes. Yeah.
Sexist. Yes.
You're a sexualist. Yes.
Sexualist rags.
You should give Warhammer 40K Inquisitor Martyr a try.
It's out on Steam Early Access.
It's a great Diablo clone in the 40K universe.
They put a lot of work into it in making the classes unique.
It's on Steam.
I want to say that I have that.
I just haven't really played it.
The reviews are pretty.
But we'll see.
I'll check them out. But I think I.
Oh, Add to Cart, I'll check it out.
But I'm aware of this.
So we'll see. Maybe, maybe.
Have you seen Hackford Media's TLJ video?
I have. He even referenced me in it.
He's the one I actually mentioned in TFA part one is the whole premise of his
channel is that he thinks Plinkett isn't doing enough analysis on the Star Wars
videos, and so he essentially created what he thinks Plinkett would have done
if Plinkett was treating the sequels like he did the prequels.
Quite interesting. And I think that the decent,
decently entertaining and informative, I would recommend everyone go check it out.
It's Hackfraud Media actually plays a clip from me talking about the.
It's actually pronounced Hackfraud Medea.
Oh, no, the horror.
A private company that wants to provide the best service is the best price.
Who will save us from that?
Is this referencing Epic?
I hope not, because OK, if you are referencing Epic,
if you think that Epic is going to give you the best products
and the best service at the best price,
you're literally wrong in every facet of the imagination,
and you should be ashamed of yourself.
Well, shopping baskets are OP.
You know, needs them overrated, I mean.
Oh, wait, shopping baskets.
They don't have shopping baskets yet.
I visually.
Oh, I, I.
OK, so, you know, the concept of a shopping cart, unlike Amazon,
you can put multiple things in there and buy them in bulk.
Yes, I have been on an online store before.
Yeah, yeah. Well, you never know with you.
Oh, oh, here's the thing.
Epic doesn't have that.
What does it have instead?
You have to buy them all individually, one at a time.
Why? Because it's incompetent because it is literally like.
I think it might be one of, if not the worst online stores ever.
I can't think of anything worse, but I know.
Origins, better.
Origins is on. Yeah, origins is fine.
I think Blizzard is worse than a lot of ways.
Blizzard's is OK.
Blizzard is bad.
That's well, yeah.
Well, Blizzard is a company.
Fuck them, but Battle.
That's all right.
No, the service is like it's fine on a surface level,
but when you actually try to use it for like things like when you dig it.
Like the other day, I was trying to add Cy on Hearthstone
because, like, we're about to kill back.
Hey, Rags, you see that?
The DPS.
Tyler Perry, you know, you know how Han Solo says that Indiana Jones
is like a well of content.
There's so much you can do with the character.
There is nothing that compares to Medea.
You can put Medea in anything.
Well, and it will be just as terrible as the last one.
The chat is testing that out.
It's been like nonstop Medea.
I know I've never seen so many Medea memes.
Well, this is going to be a lasting meme.
I'm calling it now.
This is not going to stop, but
Medea will pick it into the annals of Efap memory.
But I was like Blizzard is like,
if you try to add someone who's not,
who doesn't just who hasn't got an account that's set up on the same
like region as you, you just can't add them.
Like it doesn't work.
Like you literally cannot play against them at all.
But instead of when you try to add to them, it telling you this,
it just says you've added them, but then they don't show up in your friends list.
Maybe that sounds like it sounds like they don't want to be your friend.
No, this is how I.
Well, maybe we can't rule that out, but it's happened multiple times.
Well, that's what I'm saying.
With with people. Yeah, sure.
And so so what's the what's the common factor in all of these things?
It's the fact that we're playing on different servers.
But, yes, also the common element for me is you know what rags,
if you want to be a fucking dick to me, I don't know why.
Fucking come on your damn show.
I'm going to go somewhere that I don't get cyberbullied.
I'm just a guess.
That's a good point.
It's a guess. I don't know why.
I don't know why.
I really want the show to die for the boss off.
Well, yeah, we can discuss.
I'm just posting memes.
Rag Muller, that wolf guy in talks to for who framed Medea rabbit.
Oh, he's got all the little he's got a little text down there.
Gay features presents an association with a rhino milk.
Pictures production in association with sin sins.
Bulletproof lesbians in toxic room.
Time spiders casting by Kyle Ben editing by only straight man in the room.
What is this sound design?
Sound designs by Tonal Bloke production designed by Clinton Reviews.
D. This is really small.
Deceptic, Decept, Deception, Deception.
No, it's not. It's too long for that.
Septic on Decepticon.
Maybe Decepticon, a con designed by Space Wizards.
Producers are Patrick Willems, Eric Taxon, Jack Saint,
written, directed by Ryan Johnson.
Jesus Christ.
So many memes is down there.
I'd watch it for it's right at E for eFap.
A lot of work went into all that stuff down there.
I know I couldn't let it go unnoticed.
There's an old pan panda.
What is everyone's thoughts on Sekiro?
I've been playing as much as I can. I'm loving it.
It's different from Soulsborne in a great way.
Otherwise, I love you guys. Keep it up.
Has anyone here played it?
No, no, I'm going to play it once I'm done with my Captain Marvel video,
which is getting closer and closer to completion.
Episode nine, Inconsistence question.
We did do it. It was done.
Adolf stands for wolf, so that's oddly fitting.
Does it really?
I don't think so.
Well, you are a Nazi, so it does make sense.
Uh-huh. Let me look that up real quick.
Wolf Blitzer is also a German Nazi, so.
Ah, yeah, it's like a Wall Street. Yeah.
Oh, well, yeah, it's meaning is literally wool.
The shadows died.
Nazi like the wool.
If you watch Lord of the Rings and you don't watch the extended editions
and just watch the theatrical vision,
there is no curse in Elvish English or the tongues of men for such treachery.
Well, I agree.
I'm watching the extended ones just really slowly.
It's so slowly, you don't watch them at all. It's great.
I've watched the first one now.
And a year old, I've watched the second one.
Love you guys.
If that was the best part of my week, been working on a website
to follow your law, ifap.me.
Hope you guys enjoy.
OK, now I need to look this up.
Where's yourself?
It's like we need to know if this is real.
It's real.
Ifap.me.
Oh, my God, it tracks the runtime of Ifap.
Six days, 12 hours, 51 minutes and 50.
Wow. That's amazing.
Hosts, episodes, guests, memes, lore.
I love this is so cool.
We have our own website.
Jesus. Oh, my God.
There's the links to all the episodes.
Wait, is there a donate?
Oh, for the for the website.
OK, Rex Rex, you're on the guest page.
I'm at the very bottom, 30 appearances.
That's amazing.
Yeah, I like it. It's really awesome to be put together.
This is really, really cool.
You click on free and it goes straight to his channel.
That's awesome.
The memes. Oh, God.
It's every single ifap meme.
OK, maybe not every single. Oh, no, wait.
Show more. Oh, my God.
It's literally every single ifap.
Oh, man. Yeah, this is.
Yeah, this is drawing back.
I have to bookmark this page now.
This is incredible.
I'm legit going to do that.
Yeah. I mean, by the way, Billy, if you are actually seeing
the memes section of this website, you could understand that
there's too much shit that goes on for you to possibly get.
What the fuck is happening?
Oh, my God.
When you the the bookmark icon is a rhino head.
It's incredible.
Oh, yeah, I'll put the link.
And it's literally it's literally just a rhino.
It's a little rhino.
This is the greatest website.
I cannot believe if you told me a year ago
that we were going to make a podcast that would have a fan website
dedicated to oh, my.
We're telling people about the round for a couple hours.
Well, I know a couple of days.
This is insane.
The amount of effort.
I'm honestly surprised that there's only six days of Efap.
I really actually thought we were considering how long it is.
Six days and 13 hours, basically.
Wow. How many memes?
I this really puts its perspective.
How many memes we have because I didn't know there was this many
because I haven't even seen.
I haven't cataloged all of them,
but I guess this is essentially it.
This is such a sleek website as well.
It's not just like it looks good.
It's so nice to the eye.
I know it's not dark theme going.
It's not like one of those like dot web websites.
Right. With a custom template.
I mean, maybe this is a custom template, but it looks way better
than general custom template websites.
Oh, it's just this is all just here to like segue into like a Wix sponsor.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
There's a froggy froggy.
Guys, if you click on click
on the Facebook link at the bottom and look at his profile image.
Oh, wait, what's the face? Oh, he's gone.
Doesn't show up. Where's this at?
You ask a vegan to send new.
Crazy shit, man.
I love it.
The fact that they're not chronological makes it feel even more like,
oh, I got to the end of the list.
I'm surprised they even could pull it off.
I didn't even get all the links.
Like, I'm not even I have all of them.
I don't I don't think.
Yeah, that's what's the law?
Oh, coming this coming soon.
Oh, there's so much, though.
Yeah, it's pretty tough to go through the memes and like explain.
Yeah, so much good stuff here.
Lord of the donut rings.
Your support and donations will help me send more,
spend more time going through every angle.
And to be going through it to be fair.
Oh, my God.
Some of these memes are just classics, man.
Some of these are so good.
This will be we're just infatuated with this website right now.
It's like completely halted the app where I can't see this Facebook link.
Where is it?
It's at the bottom. It's a very, very small, the left.
Oh, oh, I thought that was just a part of the website.
I can't believe that's his profile picture.
In the banner is a Trump rally.
That's awesome.
This guy's awesome.
Yeah, we we we have to actually link this on the mooler channel now.
If I have not me, I've already put it in the description and it's
well, this better just be in the fucking description of every fact from now on.
Yeah, it's a quick way to be like, hey, if you want to catch up,
sort of, you'll understand everything from this election.
Now there's going to be a slew of media memes coming.
Oh, yes, he's going to have to fill in.
Uh, I guess he's going to have to find a place for all the meme videos as well.
Yeah, maybe that goes low.
I don't know.
Don't don't start setting setting up tasks.
He's set himself.
He works for us now.
Um, the hills have Madea.
Yeah, that's Kibakins.
I guess his name is back in Kibakins.
But yeah, thanks, dude.
Awesome.
Um, Luke is a pacifist just like Wakandans.
I think you'll find that Luke actually does attack them,
even if he is just a hologram.
It's still attacking.
Hey, that's a reference to that.
That one terrible video that that like, uh, how many made that?
Oh, yeah.
Patrick Willems, right?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, come on.
That's too far.
What?
Why don't you suggest the video I made with me?
But Patrick Willems.
White is technically not a color.
It's just the absence of color.
That's true.
That's black.
No, the owner of a Twitter account.
Why do you have all colors?
Has been given many passes, including the very hurtful, massive pass.
Oh, are you looking at memes?
No, I'm looking at the host section of the website.
Oh, is it like a description?
Yeah.
So for you, it says, um, Mahler creates videos covering various games and movies.
Over 100.
Yeah.
Rare owner of a Twitter account.
Rags is an American YouTuber slash handsome doggo.
He creates videos about video games, social issues, and industry related shenanigans.
Wolf is an American YouTuber who creates videos covering media and social issues.
Do the guests have anything?
No, they don't have that yet.
Maybe you have.
Also, I just realized with this episode, Jane Fringy will be drawing with their appearances.
I'm taking this as a competition now.
If I'm not, um, I will feel inadequate.
Does it count?
The 11 hour one is two appearances.
I imagine it would because they are separate episodes.
Yeah.
Interesting stuff.
Yeah.
White is technically not a color, just the absence of color.
When would that have been relevant?
I love this quote.
I love this.
I got to read it.
I'm going through the memes.
Creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting
iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals.
Oh, these memes are great.
I'm just going through them all.
Some of them are so good.
I can't believe so many people put this amount of time into these memes.
And then someone else was like, I'm going to compile this and make an eFap website.
I mean, like we just sit down and cover videos and stuff.
We have arguments about pants on this show.
Does like the sardana cast and stuff have this kind of thing?
I imagine everyone's got their fan base is doing stuff,
but I don't think I've ever seen it to this degree.
Oh, my God.
There's one, the objectivist manifesto, and it's done in the style of mine comp.
Oh, this is a mistake.
Metals had two appearances.
He was on the gaming one and he was on one with Joseph Anderson, I believe.
I take it back.
This is the worst website ever.
Worst website ever.
Throw it away.
Uh, is there a video to watch or something?
Yes, we totally did it.
It's stylistically designed to be that way.
Another beautiful long-term quote from who even said that originally.
It's stylistically designed to be a practitioner.
That was like a prequels coverage quote.
Oh, there you go.
Mueller.
I made a parody video of Joseph Anderson inspired by your Godel video.
Search Avengers is not a superhero movie.
That's the one you were talking about, right?
It is.
I found that.
I was like really disappointed when you told me it was a parody.
Because I wanted to.
I think the joke is.
Joseph Anderson said someone's not horror.
He's saying it's not a superhero movie, but.
Hello, Goyom.
Hypothetical.
The three of you are hired to write and executive produce the remakes of both
Alien 3 and Resurrection.
How would you do it?
What would you change and will keep the same, if anything?
I'd make it never exist.
Um, yeah, it would be like first port of call is, do we even need sequels?
Can we just leave it?
And then it's like, if you have to.
Probably try and change it up again.
So alien and aliens are very different films.
Why not have alien be the franchise where you try and do a different format every time?
Fuck it.
Maybe leave Ripley and her people alone.
Go explore some other aspect of the progress.
So what you want to make is Prometheus.
I didn't say anything.
I'm like, I'm pretty cool stuff.
I didn't realize that the word grammar was written incorrectly on his microphone in this meme.
On what meme?
On the tonaled meme.
The one I just posted.
Get old, tonaled.
Oh, and that Georgie meme.
Jesus.
This is the thing.
It's like, sorry that we slowed down a bit.
It's just kind of amazing to see it all like this.
It's like, whoa.
One day we're getting like 20 years from now.
We're going to look back at this and we're going to be like someone made a website about us.
Talking about.
Literally do an episode where we just look through the meme section of that website or something.
It'll be the last episode.
The eFap finale.
We just like reminisce about the good times.
There are so many memes to get through.
Midea Potter and the Chamber of Madea.
The Chamber of Madea.
Right anyway, carrying on.
Ryan Johnson gives you the chance to make one change or addition to The Last Jedi.
What would it be and why?
That it was never made.
One significant change.
Ryan Johnson was never born.
I probably go to the Luke, the Luke.
Yeah, Luke.
Honestly.
What about you, Billy?
Would you go with the one change you would make to T.L.J.B?
Probably that Asian girl make her.
Wow.
She has a name, dude.
I don't remember her fucking name, Rose.
Was it Rose?
Yeah, she was preaching about the animals.
It was just like a little too cheesy, but I don't know.
Hannibal abuse is bad.
It's so bad.
It just seems like.
It's the worst thing of galaxy.
Yeah.
What did you think of it all?
It was all worth it.
Why does the Republic make a lot of outlying child slavery?
Why are we saving the Republic again?
Kids make the best slaves.
They don't eat so much.
It's true.
It's true.
I know this from an experience.
Less resources, but they can't lift as much.
But if one dies, it's like not much of an investment lost either.
Yeah, exactly.
And you can just feed them to the space horse.
Y'all have the best chemistry on YouTube.
Love you.
Well, thank you.
Uh, thanks.
You guys hear about Ryan Johnson doesn't care if JJ Ratcons last Jedi.
What kind of person cares so little for his work?
It's just pathetic.
I don't think he doesn't care.
He said it's not.
The quote I saw was someone asked what are you?
What's your reaction?
If JJ changes things and he said something like he wants to go into episode nine without
thinking about his own work.
He just wants to see it for what it is.
It doesn't, you know, it's not going to, I guess he says it's an okay response, right?
Like you don't have to defend your, your work before you even see what they do to it.
Right.
But he said that there's nothing wrong with it.
I don't know.
I don't think he said a lot.
That's the problem.
But I would want to poke him on that.
I'd be like, you don't care if like, I think because there's a lot of rumors going around.
This is the thing that you made.
You created this.
I think the question involved like asking about Ray's parents being answered in episode nine.
It's like, how do you feel considering you said there's like nobody?
And he was just like, well, you know, it's their story now.
Well, he might not be able to say much either.
Right.
Like until it's released.
Maybe.
Last thing he needs to do is say like, if they change anything, I'll boycott it.
Yeah.
Ryan, no.
Luke was, Luke was pretty outspoken during everything.
And then when the shit hit the fan or I mean, Mark Hamill was right.
He wasn't he wasn't too hard on Rian Johnson when all was said and done.
Yeah.
They seem to be friends.
Yeah.
Would sucking your clones dick be counted as twin-cest or self-cest?
I was asked this earlier today.
Masturbation.
No, it's not masturbation.
Earlier today and I was asked literally the same question and pretty much the same word.
It's just gay.
It's just gay.
No, it's not gay at all.
It's you.
Person.
Your clone is you.
Person who asked this.
Did you ask me this on my stream?
It was precious.
The Fox boy.
Do you remember that name?
Oh, I didn't look at the person who asked me, but I don't.
It's still doing media memes in chat.
But how long is it going to end?
Five, 19 videos.
How long has it been a clone of you?
Um, but yeah.
The moment that the clone even read just the clone, knowing that it's a clone
means that it's experiences have diverse.
I was going to say, how would that be?
That wouldn't be masturbation at that point because you're not,
you're not getting the feeling.
The other thing is.
Exactly.
You're getting, you're getting different feelings.
The clone is different from you and the way that it's experiences and the way that
it's grown is different from your own.
You're not going to be identical.
A clone would only be as similar to you as like a twin would.
Oh my God.
Madea unchained.
Yeah.
The longer that the clone went on, the more and more different it would be.
From the moment the clone's created, it already starts to become a different person.
Yeah.
It diverges from you, which means it's not you.
It looks like you.
So in a way.
It has nothing to be shared.
There's definitely a component where if it looks like you, that could be a sexual aspect.
It'd be like getting off like your twin, which.
Yeah.
Like I would fuck myself.
I'm pretty bonus question never had any of your actual experiences in them.
This one still does.
Oh, you mean like a blank on a clone?
Well, that's the thing.
If it didn't have the experiences, but it has the memories of experiences,
then that's the distinction without a difference.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Bonus question is, what if the clone was a trap?
Now I want to fucking eat more.
Wouldn't that make you a trap?
Yeah, that you'd be a trap.
You would have to be a trap to, I mean, you'd have to be a really damn good trap to fool yourself.
I just.
Hey, Rags.
Rags, sorry.
Hey.
Loved the new episode of Godel.
You have a genuine knack for real authentic game analysis.
When can we expect episode three?
Episode three will be on April the first two thousand and twenty.
You can catch it on.
I can actually I'm going to post it on Mahler's channel.
That's fair enough.
I'm going to have him do some.
I'm going to have him do some voice work for a lot of the for a lot of the video.
But I'll post on his channel as well.
Remember the D-Day scene in Saving Private Ryan,
where a bullet ricochets off a guy's helmet.
And what happens the moment he takes it off?
I guess that's referencing the fact that they didn't have helmets in the trailer for.
I forget the name of it.
The fucking Wolfenstein thing.
The Wolfenstein.
Well, no, they did.
It's a helmet and she just like punctures it with an axe.
It's like, no, you said you'll watch this, but not the Godzilla 2 trailer.
It's like, yeah, we were watching stuff that was terrible.
Godzilla 2 trailer doesn't look that bad.
How dare you say that big shark looks terrible.
I meant you know what I mean by terrible.
I mean, incredible.
Those two words are synonyms.
Check it out in the dictionary.
Idiot.
Yeah, it's subjective.
If you get shot by a rifle caliber, yeah, your head will pop, but not handgun calibers.
I mean, you have to get shot by like a really big bullet.
Does it really?
A handgun caliber.
Yeah, it depends on the bullet as well.
Like you can get.
It has to be a really big bullet.
Yeah.
Not just the size of it, but like the type.
Like you can get different bullets that do different things.
Yeah, different bullets will do different things.
But like you can't just like shoot someone with a handgun head just disappears,
especially like below the neck.
Like if you shoot a bullet that has a grenade inside of it and the grenade goes off the
second bullet goes into the guy's head and then lazes.
A lot of bullets are made to ricochet as well, right?
And bounce around inside of things, tearing them.
Yeah, but that'll take your head off because it'll just bounce around inside the skull.
There's like a 22 can do that.
Like a 12LR can do.
And the trail of the head didn't just pop.
It just disappeared.
It was gone.
Yeah, like at the splatter at the bottom of the neck, it was just a clean gone.
There weren't like any little fleshy bits hanging off.
It wasn't like half a skull.
It wasn't halfway gone at the jar.
And no, it's just gone.
Like it had been cleanly severed.
And I'm like, that takes me like, that's one thing I don't like about Fallout.
And I should probably have checked to see if there was a mod to fix it.
But when you have a pistol and you shoot someone's head and the head explodes, I'm like.
Bobson said, ask Rags about a Godwin 998, I guess.
Is that a caliber?
A Godwin 998?
I don't.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm I'm unfamiliar with that.
Uh, Blessed Pipeman.
If is there still any.
Oh, you're talking about the heavy bolter from the Warhammer games.
They fire at nine.
They fire a point nine nine eight, I believe.
No, right.
Yeah.
And in the it's basically they're like mini grenades, essentially.
So they'll hit and then they'll explode.
So it's not it's not like a bullet per se.
It's more like an exploding tank shell.
But I think that's the caliber that the heavy bolter uses.
I think the standard bolters use just a seventy five.
But there's what the space Marines use and stuff like that.
Is this still an efap on my birthday if I'm in a country one day ahead of efap?
Yeah.
Say what?
Yeah, sure.
It just is.
It's on everyone's birthday.
So it works for Wolf.
What is dumb?
Oh, we're going over this again.
Even I think even geeks a game is caught to it.
The second rags and said it.
It just I guess it's just the fact that some people have never heard.
That's where dumb comes from.
I often use it as an example of you know, like when people say you can't use insults
if they have medical origins, but they'll often ignore the fact that dumb has one.
Yeah, it's it's very strange.
It's almost like the whole idea is to not answer the things people say
because the implications of it are staggering and past anything you could have imagined.
How are you almighty?
How are all of you lovely hate mongers this evening?
Just one.
I'm doing really well.
I feel good.
I'm not answering that because I'm not a hate monger.
I'm a person who doesn't associate with these degenerates.
I'm drinking.
I'm almost finished with it, but I'm drinking a red apple ale.
And I like these.
I like them.
I think they're very good.
They taste very good.
Evan Monroe said mola in your debate with just right.
You touched on West will being objectively bad in the words of Gus Fring.
Explain yourself.
I will probably make a video for it one day.
Like I said, it's the one project that I've started and never finished
because I dropped it to write my TLJ video.
Like I should you not.
And I was like pissed at TLJ to the point of wanting to do something else.
And to this day, I haven't picked it back up
because West will just sort of faded in my memory
because I haven't needed to rewatch it in any way.
Nobody really talks about it.
And season two is hated by its fans.
So I was like, I guess it's dead.
However, the easiest way to put it is just how inconsistent
the security system is throughout it.
Without it being retarded in most cases, the entire plot doesn't make any sense at all.
And the only way people justify it is,
oh, is the creator wanted it to be all that way?
Without spoiling too much.
The reason I hate Westworld so much
is because of how much I love the opening couple of episodes
because they're amazingly well done.
And then the writing just takes a shit on itself.
Is bad.
But I'm not going to let that go to waste
because I think I had 30,000 words already done about Westworld.
So I'll pick it back up someday, but it won't be for a while.
Admitting that you saw Spider-Man 3 before all those good movies
is like being proud that you banged Paris Hilton
when you could have had Scarlett Johansson.
Admitting that you saw-
I never said I was proud of it.
I just think it's funny.
Okay, you know, Jay's selection of movies,
you'll never know what's going to be in there.
I like bad movies.
I really like bad movies.
You need to make that list, by the way.
You're in a position, a unique position,
where making that list wouldn't be so hard.
Yeah. Haha. Thank you.
I'm not joking.
Me Wolf and Rags, if we tried, it would be pretty like,
we'd be like, oh, shit, yeah, I did see that.
I'm sure, I'm sure.
Like, I think, to be fair, I know that there are like,
I'm sure there are movies I wouldn't like think of,
but, you know, probably it would for you.
Seen that one.
Even the lone wolf.
You've already asked me that.
I did? What was the answer?
What do you think the answer was?
No.
Seven?
No.
So just repeat-
I actually haven't seen Seven.
No, I'm like, literally just-
You disappoint me.
Have you seen Catwoman 2004?
I wish I didn't.
I've seen it multiple times.
Why?
Multiple times.
It's funny.
No.
You got a crush on Benjamin Bratt, no.
It's really funny.
Blades of Glory?
No.
Galaxy Quest?
Maybe.
Yeah, I was going to say that's what made it.
Okay, thank you.
School of Rock?
Yes.
Fanboys?
No.
No, you want to-
The Perfect Storm?
No.
Cinderella Man?
No.
No.
Kings of New York?
No.
I was feeling really happy there,
because there were like two in a row that I saw.
I'm having fun guessing if I'm right on whether or not you've seen these.
You've been pretty spot on so far.
Well, are those the future of the chats smaller?
Are those all the super chats?
No, there's a bunch of them, but obviously, nobody-
Don't feel obligated to stay.
I'll just- I'll be getting through them.
Oh, wait, I'm not obligated to stay.
Bye.
Cinderella Madea.
What do you mean, Cinderella Mad Deer?
I reckon you could prove it that way.
Blades of Madea.
Wolf, I read your Fallout 76 book, and it's The Big Gay.
Cool.
That's from Creamy Sheev, by the way.
Figured.
Have you seen Blue as the Warmest Color?
I have not.
Anyone else?
We haven't heard of it.
Obviously, I'm not asking you, Jay, because I know that.
I just didn't answer, because I knew that.
Question.
If Luke says the Jedi are just as bad as the Sith,
because they allowed Vader to happen,
isn't that like saying the Jews are just as bad as the Nazis,
because they allowed Hitler?
It's almost like the last Jedi was terrible writing.
I mean, I was going to say, Luke's take on the Jedi is laughably one-sided.
Yeah.
Even if he was right, they're not even that bad still.
It's like they tried to stop the bad guys, but they failed.
I think it's more like saying Austria should have prevented Hitler,
but because like, were there any like Jewish people involved?
Was it Hitler's mom Jewish?
Wait, was she?
She let out.
I didn't know that.
She's evil.
Yeah, she couldn't.
She was Jewish.
She could have had an abortion.
She could have had that abortion.
Yeah, she just had that abortion.
Yeah, Luke's saying abortion.
But it blames the fucking victims of the people.
It blames the victims of the Sith for the Sith.
If he was a real person saying that in today's environment about real historical
see would be shit on so fucking hard.
I remember you said that the Jedi trade Darth Vader.
It's like he wasn't Darth Vader when they were trading it.
Like you're going to be evil when you're old.
That's a kid's like, yay.
Oh, this is a strange one.
But it was unorthodox for Darth Vader to be created, right?
Like he wasn't supposed to show up so late as a padawan.
So I mean, Luke showed up pretty late.
He showed up lately.
That was after everything killed.
I'd say that there's a pretty different, pretty big difference between saying,
oh, it's kind of too late to train him and he's going to end up being like Satan.
Yeah, it's a big stretch.
You're late.
You're going to genocide us all.
Billy the fridge more like Billy the bridge.
Dick.
I don't get it.
But because you just walk on top of him to the other side of things,
I guess because he bridges large caps.
That's right.
It Billy cross the bridge to get to the fridge.
We're going to throw him a deer in there somehow.
But get to the media fridge.
My goodness.
Could this man have more of a generic essayist voice?
I wonder who that's referring to out of our selection today.
I guess it's not.
I think brown table.
It must be right because possibly it was still pretty early on, right?
Yeah, I think it would have been brown table.
It's 2007.
Gotta have that 9 11 commentary through.
Was this a joke video like more was April Fool's?
Oh, the genius Spider-Man one.
I mean, his audience seems to have taken it extremely seriously.
But I may as well check because that would be awkward if I didn't note that.
Roundtable.
Two years ago, but wait, was it two years ago on April?
No, January 5th.
Oh, yeah, we did say that.
Sorry on the actual thing.
You're not thinking about it hard enough.
Roundtable or H bomber guy?
Wait, is that a question?
I would take H bomber guy over brown table for analysis just because he'll actually come up with
something.
Usually the grim adventures of Billy and Medea.
Oh, these are never going to pop into brat isn't up step just saying.
Oh, I know what that's referencing.
That's going to be the music from the trailer.
We watched that you say you call discount dubstep, which by the way, it wasn't dubstep.
So it's called carpet.
It was too fast to be dubstep.
I would assume so.
I know my EDM.
I know my EDM is the three things I know.
Let me have my high.
All right, fine.
You can have that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Can't spell Medea without an EAD internet.
It's true.
But despite that, love to you at the boys.
More of a question for rags and wolf, but more look at answer as well if you want.
What would be the most unattractive thing a man can be,
do or have asking for a friend out of curiosity fat fat?
No, like fat is one of them in a guy.
I'm sorry, Billy.
You're very not as well.
Smoked.
I only just realized like a second after I said it.
Let rags give you things.
I'm sorry.
I want to be nice to Billy.
I'm sorry.
Fat people are pretty gross most of the time.
I'm just like an exception to the rule.
He's not fat, he's a golly.
He is jolly.
He is jolly.
That donut looks pretty good.
That's a big turn off.
Yeah, I think probably being a rapist is.
Yeah, no, that's a turn off.
Yeah, I'm not going to do that.
I'm down for it.
A very, a very feminine voice.
You know, the guys who really can't grow beards and but they have like that line
that goes under their chin, you know.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, that's.
Yeah, that's.
Yeah.
Or the guys that don't that are balding and that they just don't have the will
to shave their head.
Oh, yeah.
I really want to fuck Patrick Willems.
I guess thing, guys, when you start going bald, take it off.
Shave it.
Just take it all off.
You look so much better.
It looks great.
I mean, it looks better.
I went to a Walmart the other day and there was a dude who was balding to the point that
he had a ring of long hair, like just just the you of it.
And there was a big bald spot over his head.
Like it was totally shaved on the head.
But just a ring of long hair.
It was the most unsettling thing I'd ever seen.
It's like Hulk Hogan's hair.
Does Hulk Hogan really have hair like that?
Hulk Hogan has like a ridiculous bald spot and then long hair on the sides.
Like it's it's crazy.
Hulk Hogan hair.
Yeah, Hulk Hogan hair is it's.
Oh, God.
Yeah, it would.
It's it's like that, but worse.
Really?
Yeah, much worse.
You always want to go stone cold Steve Austin when you're balding.
Not not not Hulk Hogan.
Oh, yeah.
Just cut it all off.
Yeah.
If you can grow a goatee.
That bald thing don't turn me off.
You're fine if you're bald.
Just bald teeth.
Also like the dudes who have like I don't know if any of you have seen
what people's teeth look like after they have chewing tobacco for too long.
Like they start to go like brownish.
Yeah.
Yeah, like smoking, chewing tobacco, stuff like that that fucks with your teeth and your breath.
I really don't like it.
Yeah, I really don't like it.
Hey, that's a pretty good set of answers for that.
That question.
I think he nailed it.
Hey, guys, stuff like basic hygiene.
Oh, definitely.
You know, not a lot of surprising answers.
Well, I guess the question that's not just for men.
I was going to say the question was obviously about what about men specifically rather than people.
I don't like beards on men.
I don't think they're attractive.
You're wrong.
Wolf and crabs by each other.
Most beards are just hiding a weak chin, right?
A lot of them are.
Yeah, a lot of them.
Maybe not all of them.
But there's a lot of conversation.
Like I'm fine with a little like chin strap that accents your jaw line.
That's fine with me.
But like bushy stuff.
I don't want to get tickled when I kiss you.
That's so terrible.
Have you kissed a guy?
Yeah.
Yeah, it doesn't feel the same at all.
It's weird.
No, I don't.
I don't mean to like hate because dude, no, it's just different.
It's a definite different feeling.
There's just that scratchy stubble and you're like, uh, yeah, I like smooth shaven guys,
especially around their mouth, beneath their nose, between their lip and their chin.
Luckily for me, you know, I can't grow a beer for half a month.
No, I do the guy in chat.
No, I've never had a beard.
I can't really.
I can't grow a beard.
I just keep a little bit of like a like a chin sort of thing going.
That's that's fairly well groomed.
Just to kind of accent the gel.
Elevate the music.
Wolf, I have a real short chat.
The beards are cool.
My beard goes down like just slightly past my neck and I like it.
How's your chin underneath that beard?
It's fine.
Pronounced and strong and man.
It's like if I can't have hair, then I may as well have a beard.
So it might cut out there.
Hey, guys.
Love to watch Efap on the job keeps my moral up on this long days roof and keep it up and
bring on Sargon to talk about Starship Troopers.
That's not out of the question.
We could cover a video like hate Starship Troopers or something.
That could be fun.
Oh yeah, that would be great.
Have him on to talk about Starship Troopers.
Can you do a video picking apart this pretentious individual called Mauler?
He's a part of a cult and is very toxic.
Thanks.
Well, we tend to stay away from the really bad ones.
Like the Mauler guy, he's ruined YouTube.
Sounds like a bad influence.
Don't platform him.
Don't signal boost him.
Just ignore him and you'll go away.
Yeah.
Is there a link to this cult though, if I wanted to join it?
I don't want to join it.
I just want to, you know, wow, is there like, that sounds horrible.
I want to make sure I know what it is.
So if I see it, I can go the other way.
I can ban the website, you know.
So I can know really where to avoid.
With all of the adpocalypses, I think the next evolution of earning on YouTube is cults, right?
Oh, why not, you know?
Might as well do it.
It's going to be about the t-shirts and the gift bags.
That's how the cults will grow.
Got to make sure you have the best.
And we started up really good because obviously ours will come with a free
sachet of rhino milk and nice tea, protein, you know, whatever.
It's amazing that in four years, Disney has trashed the Star Wars brand and
pretty much ruined any chance of episode nine being a successful brand.
I think it'll make a lot of money.
Yeah.
Hence how you define successful brand, I suppose.
But I'm pretty sure episode nine is still going to make a bunch of money.
Even the people who hate it are going to go see it.
You know, do you mean people who hate episode eight are going to go see it?
Because obviously they wouldn't know they hate episode nine until they go.
Yeah.
But people like pretty much, I'm pretty sure like people who hate episode eight
and even seven are going to go see it.
Just because.
I don't think solo is an indicator of how episode nine will do.
I don't think so either.
Solo was just really badly marketed.
There's a whole set of reasons.
Yeah.
The subject matter.
I don't think we needed a solo, solo film.
Solo, solo.
I think if they would have left, was it Lord and Miller?
If they would have them on, it might have been.
Yeah.
And that's the other thing.
That film, what did it cost?
It was like an absurd amount of money.
I think it was over 300 million by the time.
Yeah.
And it's tied to reshoots and just how extravagant a lot of the sets and costumes were.
Which is the kind of thing that I don't think I don't know.
Yeah.
300 million, which means it's 600 million.
Like it's tough to make 600 million.
It's not, you know, and that's just a break even.
Disney's like, it's, it's, it's fine though, right?
Like they make so much money everywhere else.
They can, they can fuck up one or two.
You know, since they own Black Panther and just the MCU is just paying for everything,
I think, no matter how many flops they get.
It's not just the MCU because like the, the Beauty and the Beast did really well.
Like all the Disney stuff does well.
Disney prints money for the most part.
They have a couple of slip ups, but.
I mean, Star Wars should be printing the money.
It's one of the ones we just need to, yeah.
But they'll be fine.
I'm pretty sure episode nine will make them loads of money.
Hi, so I'm late, but is that Billy the fucking fridge?
Yeah, Billy the Medea.
I love how it's still going.
It's been like, I know it's been.
I think it might be like coming on an hour at this point.
Oh man, so much passion for the day.
The Medea desolation on Medea, the cat in Medea,
Princess Medea, Medea dearest, Medea lands, the mask of Medea.
Now this is going to last.
This is going to be just in the chat forever from now on.
People just try to make me.
When are we going to get creamy Medea?
Is one of the frequent memers?
I'm sure account has already been set up.
Is it Hammond Pineapple Wolf on a reference to.
Hawaiian seats.
The question is that Hammond Pineapple Wolf.
Is it Hammond?
What I don't understand.
Did you get a pizza?
No.
Oh well.
People just said I did when I needed myself.
I had to go to the bathroom.
I love all you guys content.
How do you feel about Disney confirming to make more alien movies?
Stop.
Just stop it, please.
It's not a matter of it's already dead.
This is a thing that died back in the fucking 80s.
How much are they going to kick the corpse?
Me and Rax have seen Captain Marvel.
Haven't released a video on it though.
Have you?
As of today, I had to rerecord a couple of things.
It's at one hour 44 now and I'm edited through nearly one hour and 20 minutes.
So it's going to be another week before I can get a first draft.
It's longer than the film, isn't it?
No.
One hour 40 minutes.
They're still shorter than the film.
The film's over two hours, right?
I think it's shorter than the film otherwise it might be bad.
Yeah.
Let's make sure because I don't want my video to be bad.
Length Captain Marvel.
Two hours and six minutes.
Yeah.
So I'm fine still.
I'll make it, Jay.
I'll make it.
Gonna have to head out here.
Gonna gonna go watch a movie with a friend.
But it was.
I gotta go eat a pizza.
Pet Sematary.
Okay, I haven't seen it yet.
Let me know.
I just finished the book today.
So I'm eager to see what they're going to do with it.
Let me know if it's terrible.
Yeah, I watched YMS's two minute review where he said absolutely nothing of something.
He didn't say anything.
I was like, I watched it and I was like, I learned absolutely nothing from this video.
That's probably, I hesitate to say it, but it's probably his worst video ever.
Not because he just doesn't say anything.
I was actually surprised.
When I saw it was two minutes, I was like, there is no way.
There is no way he could possibly get a point across in this video and lo and behold, he didn't.
But I will report the next EFAP on my findings.
Billy, it was good talking to you again.
Yeah, and hopefully you'll be here on the DP next week.
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, penetration boy.
And Jay, I hate you.
All right, I'll see you guys.
See you then.
Later.
Bye.
What a nerd.
I believe you guys.
Your idea sucks.
So I kind of interrupted there, but I just wanted, I do want to say I just opened my
creator dashboard and my most recent comment says, I took you seriously until I saw your face.
That's why you don't do face reveals chilling.
It's so funny.
I get the comments so much of your voice doesn't match your face.
Like, I've had like three people say, oh, until I saw your face, I thought you were black.
What was that?
I don't want to see what you look like.
I don't want to see what anyone looks like.
I found like you're just a picture on the internet and you got a voice attached to it.
And that's fine for me.
I guess like 50 people at this point have said your voice just doesn't match your face at all.
Like probably a similar number have said like, oh, you sound 30 and look 12.
It's a fun, it's a fun thing.
I would never find something about myself.
She's the cooked grenade of superheroes.
I appreciate that.
Into the media verse.
Dear guest.
Stop lowering the standards for writing.
For fuck's sake.
Stop making excuses for mistakes in writing.
So I'll stop.
Fury isn't a spider, so he couldn't see the future.
You don't know that.
You might announce that he was a spider the whole time.
He's a spy.
Right.
They could just write it in the future that he's half spider DNA or.
The only thing they had to do is not have the page.
A man bites a spider and the spider gets human powers and becomes Nick Fury.
So that's an interesting point, right?
So the super chat said that why not just not have the pages?
So let's just say he didn't call anybody and she arrived because of the fact that all
this is going on, she finds out that Thanos was collected all the stones.
That would make a lot of sense.
Yeah, because obviously the the the Krell Krell Kree Kree Kree.
The obviously the Kree would know about Thanos.
Like there's no way they don't know about Thanos realistic.
So she would be like, Oh no, what if they get to Earth and she rushes off?
The last stone was at Earth.
You could just say she turned up looking in the last place.
He would have finished the job to see if looking for leads on where he is.
That's the thing.
When you think about it, it would make sense if just like at the end of infinity war,
loads of random fuckers showed up in Wakanda that we had no idea like they were.
I mean, lots of people would know about Thanos and lots of people would want to stop him.
And lots of people would want to know exactly where he was going.
That would be a really great opportunity to have some crazy references.
And these are all people that get wiped out or undone.
Squirrel girl.
Hey fuck, we got a raccoon, right?
Why not?
I want them to just squirrel girl.
Was Thanos' plan that public?
Like with the infinity stones?
Yeah, he didn't start acting on it until he knew where the soul stone was, right?
Stones are not.
Even if we take the stones out of the equation, what we would have is Captain Marvel knowing
or learning about Thanos and the Chitauri going from planet to planet.
And because she has some vested interest in Earth and some people on it, then she would
want to, if she was like a human character, she would want to go to Earth to protect Earth.
And that would be all the, that would really be all the reasons you'd need.
People would know that Thanos, people knew that Thanos was getting the stones because it was,
there's a line in the film that says it's been a week since he got the first stone from Sandar.
Yeah, not just that, but like Ronin's, there's no way I wouldn't have spread that Ronin tried to
attack everybody with a power stone and Sandar kept it and that he was working for Thanos this
whole time. There's no way people wouldn't be aware that something's going on there, but you,
there's space to assume they don't know exactly what he's doing, but enough to know that they're
aware of him. And that's all we need to send her over there.
I think it would be really cool if at the end of Infinity War,
and Thanos, but also it would be kind of confusing. People would be like,
what? I don't know. I don't know. I would like it, but I get why they didn't do it.
Wolf just finished your book. It was awful. Don't you think you could have chosen a better title?
Interstellar Marine sounds a bit generic.
Yeah, no, for a shit character in a shit movie like Captain Marvel,
I can't suspend my disbelief. They aren't worth it.
I barely ever got immersed when I was watching the film, because it,
it just, there's too much stuff that my brain had trouble with in that film.
I think it's because of the fact that you, you introduce a way wider space universe to the MCU,
which is 20, 23 films now. But you got to be careful. There's a lot of,
a lot of continuity to keep track of. I think the end game will be 22 or is it 23?
I think 23. I remember seeing it somewhere, but either way.
Yeah.
Billy the Fridge will be exposed on June 27th.
Lies. Not true.
Why though? What's happening on June 27th?
I don't know. This guy says this all the time when joking.
Oh, okay.
And I'm like, I'm like, June 27th has absolutely no me.
Like, shit on somebody close to me's birthday or something. I don't, I don't think I did.
And I don't, I don't know what June 27th is, but it's okay. It's iLocal Metro's birthday. So
that's, that's it. That's why I'm being exposed. I like those Metro notes.
Efab on Alpha and Omega Wen. Is that the movie? Right? That's the one. Didn't Wolf cover it?
It's the Wolf movies that Wolf covered.
I'm not sure how we get that into an email.
Jay's quiet voice equals silent milk, but you can hear him still.
Well, like odd milk is silent.
Is it though? What about if it falls onto the ground?
You've clearly never heard of screaming milk.
Scream.
I've heard some pretty loud milkshakes being made.
Do you like skim 2% whole or screaming?
This guy sounds like discount commander Shepard.
Would that be the up next guy or would that be captain midnight maybe?
I don't know.
Oh, it must have been up next because the next one is goose with no end game poster crime of
the century. Oh, I get it. Because goose should have had their own imposter.
Fuck goose.
Avenge the fallen.
I still think they should have released a trailer of Ant-Man going up Thanos' butt on April Fool's
Day. I think they should have.
Well, have you seen the video somebody made of it?
Yeah.
Wait, I'm okay. I know what I'm doing after the stream.
You can not only look at, but sound like women now.
He said the M word. I'm so mad. I might say the N word.
Well, when I saw Godel, I clapped, but I was unable to understand some of it.
Please try harder next time.
That means it was successful.
Madea avenges 9-11. I mean, they may have made that movie. I don't know. There's a lot of Madea
movies. Wolf, who is your favorite Lord of the Rings character and why?
What would Wolf say to that? Either way, I'm actually, I'm not sure what Wolf would say.
It might be Aragorn.
I'm going to write it down so that he can answer it on the next Efap.
Wolf, fave, lore, tour character. Best notation ever.
Madea nardo. Madea battle angel. A wrinkle in Madea.
12 angry Madeas. Air force Madea. Austin powers the Madea who shagged me.
Madea fap. I feel thin, sort of stretched like butter, scraped over too much butter rolls.
Oh lord, Madebo baggage. Return of Madea. The men who stare at Madeas.
Madea, Madea's, Madea 3, Madea resurrection. These are great. Efap, I'm guessing that
stands for Madea. That weird cat pick is from an EW shoot early in production.
Alright. Enemy at Madea. Home Alone 2, lost in Madea. Know I'm your father, Madea Baggins.
World War, Madea. Watch my Dishonored Wolf funeral vid. It's only 11 seconds and my Jeremy
from Geeks and Gamers Dumbo meme. Great stream more. I can't wait for Captain Marvel vid.
Thank you. Well yeah, thanks and it's coming. Dishonored Wolf funeral video.
I'm guessing it's an April Fool's thing. But yeah, I mean, I'll try and remember too.
I just, we're going to have to try and get through these before everybody starts dying.
Was it a common theory that Finn had the force? I thought Rey could just detect his conflict, not
feel some kind of force. Oh Ren, sorry. I guess we never have it confirmed for sure yet,
but he still could use the force. There's no, you know,
maybe Alpha and Madea. I have never seen Lord of the Rings or the Hobbit.
I mean, geez, watch Lord of the Rings. Come on. Yeah. Like we're not going to kill you,
but we would consider it out of the burning building. It's not going to save you either.
They don't kill you. They slowly build up like a blood curdling rage that will eventually lead
into like the rage will kill death. Like the death will occur, but it will be due to like an
accident, right? You know, you wouldn't kill. Maybe you would. Accidents happen, little kid.
Akira Madea dies twice is my favorite game in 2019. Best black art game since 50 cent blood in the
sand. All right. Anyone care to read my book? It's about my escape from addiction to very
shy reviewers on YouTube, acquiring massive amounts of wealth and cheap, beautiful women.
It's called from rags to bitches. Yeah, boy, toxic brood art at Gavin Monroe seven. Look very closely.
Is that on Twitter or
what did we do? We look at already. I'm not sure. Can you see if you can get the spiffing Brits on
your show? I have no idea who that is, but we'll eventually get some more people as time goes on,
I suppose. So hopefully if if he's interested, I don't know. Mola rags and won't give me genuinely
what make me genuinely question if I'm straight or not. Is that weird?
Nope, it's perfectly normal. I was going to say that's that happens more than it doesn't
are trapped. Fleshlight's gay. That's just a dildo.
Yeah, depending on what kind of trap you are there, right?
It's gay to ask. It's good. Yeah, that's true. No, it's I mean, it's not the fleshlight itself.
It's what you're thinking about while you're fucking the fleshlight.
You don't need to ask if something's gay, just enjoy yourself and don't worry.
Unless it's gay, in which case, fuck you. Unless you only enjoy it if you know it's gay.
The guy who said about the great company offering great products at great prices or whatever,
he said he's referring to Amazon, not Epic. Yeah, there's a reason Amazon became so popular in his
though. I mean, as a customer, I use Amazon every once in a while that no problems are
very easy to work with. My stuff arrives on time. I don't have any problems.
Except Yeah, there's the stuff about the way they treat customers, which isn't exactly reassuring.
But I'm hoping that that's just, you know, an exception that they've, you know,
caved now they're not actually continuing it. The whole thing about they wouldn't allow bathroom
breaks or whatever. Because they're to purchase bottles. Yeah, yeah, I think that was a bunch of
BS fake news. Really? Yeah. Well, either way, I hope it's not going on right now. You guys
should get Arch and Sargon on potentially, potentially. Yeah, you bet. Hey, Rags. What's
this I'm hearing about you and SMUD? Oh, nothing's happened. SMUD boy has come out in defense a bit
about Epic and this store. I think he thinks that everyone's being too harsh to them about what's
happening. And obviously, if you follow Rags, you would have known that we did a stream on his
channel relatively recently, basically ripping into Epic 100%. So a lot of people have memed
about how it would be like a rags versus mud thing. But I don't I don't think that's going to happen.
I don't know. For smud's sake. There you go. Medea Genesis. But anyways, guys, Oh, Lord,
alert. Is that some kind of like Medea catchphrase? Does she say Oh, Lord, Lord,
Oh, Lord, aliens, colonial medeions. Wolf, you should probably lay off Jay, you're like 13
books and 25 publishing years behind in WOT pleb. Oh, that's wheels of time, I think.
Yeah, but Wolf is that would be this is the thing if Jay hadn't seen Lord of the Rings,
but he had seen like a whole bunch of other things. I'm pretty sure we'd just be like, well,
then watch Lord of the Rings. Jesus. Yeah, I don't I haven't seen anything. I didn't like realize
this until I didn't realize how much I hadn't seen until a friend of mine pointed out to me
a couple of months before I came on efap. And then when I came on efap, it was reminded to me.
It's like it's it's I'm learning fair, though, because you're dealing with people who especially
me like watching films is one of the main things I've done media wise throughout my life. So,
you know, it's not a fair thing. But you should watch Lord of the Rings, though. That should
really, you know, have you ever seen the power in this movie? Yes, with five news. Yes. Well,
I loved it as a kid. Yeah, I'm sorry, you loved it as a kid. Yeah, I don't fucking love it now.
I'm sorry, is there something wrong? No. Just funny, I still remember is the like
at a fairground selling his ooze and he's like guys and girls, girls and guys gather around and
feast your eyes. That's buried into my head. Thanks. The fact that I watched it so much when
I was a kid. I can't get it out of my head. Jay, help. That's where it belongs. No,
I haven't used as a part of you now. I've been media.
Decaro is good, but not as good as DS one or bloodborne. Don't don't don't journey to the
center of media, the toxic brood, the rhino milk and the holy media. Coming out of my cage,
and I've been doing just fine. Eric's posting the lyrics again. He's got four super chats that are
just what is that song? It was only a kiss. Everything will be all right. Either way. Yes.
Yes. Ifap dot Medea. Oh, that'll that'll happen eventually. I'm sure she's she's in the law now.
I'm curious how the law section is going to go. Interesting. Uh, choking on your alibis was
just the price I paid. Destiny's calling me. Yep. That's, oh, it's Mr. Brightside. That's the name
of the song, right? Um, is it the killers? Yeah, it's definitely Mr. Brightside.
Either way. Well, you seem to be born to do what you're doing right now on YouTube. What do you
think has prepared you the most to be the critic you are today? I mean, most in terms of films,
like I said, I've said before, it's like the biggest thing that got me into being able to
like break them all down. So I just watched a shit ton of them. Yeah. It's like the best way to
become a debater is to add a debate. That too, as well. I think me and Rags kind of share like
a similar history with that, watching and learning from debates for a very, very long time.
You absorb it. Yeah. Um, the creature from the Black Madea. You guys are making my Sunday shift
at work bearable. How's everyone doing? What's everyone's release schedule for videos? I'm all
caught up and it's hellish. Love y'all. Stay cheeky breeky. I don't have a schedule. I'm just
working, working, working. Have you got a review coming up? Yeah. Every, uh, every Wednesday on
Exclusively Games, I do a, a short review, a different game. Like I said, uh, optimistically
Captain Marvel video will be a week, uh, realistically two weeks, pessimistically
three weeks, but certainly before end game. Otherwise Jesus Christ, I'll be late to the
party with that one. Won't I? Uh, oh boy. Mueller is the Biggie Smalls of media review.
I don't know what that means, but I know Biggie Smalls is a guy.
So yes, but you missed a lot of details at Gavin Monroe. What's happening? Are you,
wait, is that meant for us or is that one of the memes we looked at?
I'm not sure what you're referring to sir. Um,
um, M-dick Stinks from Mr. Butterfield sucks. Okay. Um, because it's,
because it's very clear that almost no one criticizes your videos have watched them.
Have you considered creating a molar clips channel and take care of individual points
into them as a dedicated video essays? Not really. Um, a lot of my videos tend to,
they're like a progression in order to watch, you know, like
the latest stuff, watch the middle stuff, watch the beginning. You know what I mean?
Like it's not, I structured my videos to be consumed as, as they are. Uh, so to split them
might screw it up or make it awkward or whatever. I'm not sure. Um, but, but if, if, if they're
capable of it, uh, I don't know that I'd, you know, like hate it if other people tried to
make some sort of attempt at doing that. But I mean, eventually it would be weird.
Cause it's like, I should be doing it at that point, but yeah, I don't know how I feel about
that. It's kind of weird at that point. Cause the whole reason I could have been doing this
the whole time, right? By splitting up my videos into, uh, 10 to 15 minute parts.
But then I'd be dealing with, uh, like a 30 part series for certain things. So I don't know.
I figured that if, if ever there was a particularly, a part that you particularly
liked and wanted to send to somebody, you can just timestamp it, right?
All this of most, um, yeah, no, I haven't really, um, thought about it just yet. Are you familiar
at all with pond story games? He has a great TFA review and a review on how Rogue One is
just as bad as the rest of them. All I've heard about pond story games is that you put a comment
somewhere saying that I have bad taste and he, isn't he the same guy who said that graphics
can't be bad, something like that. And a lot of people wanted us to cover it.
And I think his argument was, it's just pixels. You can't say it's a bad or good
pixel or something like that. What? Yeah, that's being stupid.
Yeah. His video is called. There's no such thing as bad graphics.
Yeah. You know, and we might cover that, uh,
well, can you do an audio tutorial or recommend one? Your audio is amazing.
Literally just using the 80 2020, um, I do a small amount of noise reduction on
audacity. And then there's a track I put it into on Vegas that has a bit of compression
and equalization. That's it's nothing complicated this way. It's probably more than like,
I just, yeah, just get a good microphone, get a quiet room, learn to pronunciate well, and
that'll really do it. Cause I just, I just talk into a microphone. That's all I do.
Hey Rags, I'm curious, what do you find wrong with the Epic game store? And I'm willing to
have a discussion over the topic. Steam has cloud saves. Epic does not. Steam has user profiles.
Epic does not. Steam has user reviews. Epic does not. Steam has forums for games. Epic does not.
Steam has mod distribution. Epic does not. Luckily, both Epic and Steam do have friends
list and chat. But while Steam has groups for games, Epic does not. Steam has item trading.
Epic does not. Steam has a library sorting. Epic does not. Steam has family sharing and
Steam in-home streaming. Epic has no equivalents. Steam has broadcasting, live streaming. Epic does
not. Steam has screenshot capture and sharing and community basis for those. Epic does not.
Steam has user created guides for games that anybody can put out publicly.
Epic does not. Steam also has wish lists for the store. Epic does not.
Yeah, but it isn't really that bad.
Um, I'm guessing that. Steam has media. Epic does not.
And then there's the whole, the practices thing and the shopping cart. Yeah, there's just,
I don't have to worry about someone stealing all my data from Steam. I have to worry about that on
Epic. And as was pointed out on a Reddit post that I actually shared with Mauler is that one
of the, um, this was the one I, uh, the one about why Steam takes a bigger cut and why, uh, you know,
like the reasons for that and why that happens. Um, I was basically here, let me pull up the link here.
Um, Steam's cut does lower depending on sales figures. So for sales between 10 and 50 million,
they take 25% cut. And for all sales over 50 million, they take a 20% cut. Um, is Steam
were to adjust their cut. They'd probably take a discounted rate for indie developers. Um,
so, and it's you, it uses a percentage of the cut. Um, and they provide a, you know,
like that numerous list of free to free for charge or sorry, free of charge stuff to the users.
And that applies not just for the people who are the consumers on the site. It applies to
the developers and the way that they can use steam to put their stuff out there with guides
and the forums and then this, that, and the other thing. Um, there's 90 million monthly users on
steam. Um, and they've increased that from 67 million from last year. And a 2015 count says
there were 125 million active accounts. And when you take into account what they provide for each
user, it's pretty incredible. Like every user gets 20 gigabytes of storage for screenshots.
Um, they have live hosting and in-house markets and all that stuff that I went through.
And when you think about it, oh, and all of their stuff, they, they provide all the servers
for all of the games that you play. Developers don't have to worry about them themselves. It's,
it's steam is, you know, there to take care of a lot of that stuff. Um, they have denial of service
protection for all their games. I think they're going to look into cloud server hosting,
which could be a huge feature for developers to use. Um, and cloud hosting isn't very cheap.
And what's interesting is that when you look at Epic and they're praised for taking a 12% cut,
but all they really have to worry about is just keeping their servers online. They don't have to
spend all this money on all of the features and stuff that steam provides. And when you think
about it in the future, can Epic afford to only operate on a 12% cut once they get their store up
to full functionality? Is that going to be something that they can survive on? Oh, steam
also takes a 0% cut on any developer generated steam keys you buy from. And so that's a pretty
comprehensive answer, I think. Um, and that's not even, you don't even gone over like the spyware
that was potentially looked into. Um, or the idea of pausing exclusivity in games on steam,
obviously that's a certain degree. There's a lot to break down and it's just a shame that we're
even in this position. Kind of how I feel about it. It's very interesting how people are very quick
to rush to defend the AAA developer decisions to take advantage of Epic's smaller cuts.
It's very, it's very curious how selective we get with our generosity and good faith that we
give towards massive corporations. Um, but I don't know, it's just don't, just, you know,
kind of be consistent, but be nuanced as well. But in that, and the thing is all that stuff that I
talked about, it's not even the full list of reasons. And it's one of those reasons why I
won't like, I'm not going to make smut on this shit. Like it's really, this is really, really,
really clear and I don't want to turn them into an evap villain, you know?
Um, but yeah, I'm assuming there's more than what they were looking for for an answers.
Uh, I just defeated the headless ape in Sekiro. There was also a second ape in the fight.
Good stuff. I've heard about any a meme for that game is telling people you've beaten things on it.
That's probably. Excellent work. Well, just busted a woman giving a guy a blowjob in one
of the parking lots and patrolling while listening to efap doesn't get much better than that.
What? What's the problem? He said doesn't get much better than that.
Well, you said he busted him. I'm assuming it might be a private parking lot or something.
I don't know. Maybe. Yeah, that's interesting. That must have been really weird. Busted has
multiple meanings. Yeah. Who knows? Maybe he meant. Yeah. Busted makes me feel good.
A lol. Yeah. Okay. Double lyrics. I mean, Eric, you can do whatever you want. But I mean,
if you want to ask, you know, any of us a question, you're welcome to do so.
Pawn is a very good, close friend of mine. And he said good things about you to me. I'd
like to see you guys have him on. He would do it, I think. Um, well, maybe we can cover
because he's also made a video called there's no such thing as a glitch.
What? So maybe we'll cover him and then he can come on as a guest and kind of like the
Ren's reviews can away if he's if he wants to, obviously, but it'll that'll that'll be
something to do, I suppose. And that brings us to the end of the show. I can't believe we managed.
That wasn't 13 hours. It was close, though. Yeah, I guess. Billy, is there a, would you
would you want to sort of talk about how people should go and watch Drunken Peasants or a specific
channel that you run, assuming you're still here, your microphone's. I'm going to assume he's not
here. Which means what was the channel he said he ran? Ben said it was like overweight something.
You guys remember? It was something like that. Really, the fridge was YouTube pull up.
I mean, he has a channel, so I'll just I guess we'll just oh, yeah, the channel is
is the link to the channel name is just overweight. Interesting.
So that's a link to his channel, his personal channel, and then he does a he co hosts the
Drunken Peasants, which Ben was here earlier, I believe those two are on most, if not all episodes.
So check them out. And you may as well because potentially me rags and wolf will be there
on the 11th of this month. So four days from now. Plenty of fun to potentially be had.
Oh, yeah, we did say we'd have a look at the the Hello Greedo video, just the beginning of it.
Anyway, just to see if he talks about, you know, do we have to I mean, it's only 10 seconds.
So fine. Give music. I will accept 10 seconds. You love Hello Greedo. He's literally your
favorite. More like goodbye Greedo because your content is bad. All right. Let's let's see if
this has me in it ruined the Star Wars franchise hyperbole is defined as exaggerated statements
or claims. Fucking hell. Jesus Christ. What a faggot. What this is? This is a faggot. This right
here. What size? What size of of is he massive or I'm not going to say the word because I don't
want my channel to be new. Of course. Excessively. Excessively. That's even more than excessively
large. I mean, I can't I can't say that, but I can say big gay. I love that. That's as far
we go. Enough is enough. It's or claims not meant to be taken literally. Exaggeration is defined as
a statement that represents something as better or worse than it really is. Bullshit is defined
as bullshit. The song George Lucas raped our childhood was fucking dumb in 2005. And it's
fucking dumb now. It's like if you're just going to bleep them out, then don't say them at all.
I mean, it's easier and we don't have to listen to the bleep. I actually think bleeping makes
swearing funnier. I'm I'm on board with a I'm not when it's three times in as many seconds.
Yeah, I'm not sure what I'm like. It's okay. So there's a point in Borderlands two at the end
where claptrap swears and they bleep it out. But it's the first time they've ever done it
in the game. And it's hilarious because of the scenario. This is just him talking normally,
but bleeping it out every time it happens. And it's not funny. It's not clever. It's not
well, interesting. I think he's concerned about the potential children in the audience.
I think that don't say it. Then if that's what you're concerned is that just don't say fucking.
Not only is it does it force you to just not use that word lazily, because fucking is really even
I throw it around too much sometimes. It's a bad habit. A lot of people have. But it's easier
because you don't have you don't have to go back and edit through. And it's more pleasant to listen
to like choose if you're going to swear or not swear. And if you want to get that middle ground
where every once in a while you swear for the effect of the word and you bleep it out, doesn't
have that effect if you use it over and over. Yeah, I agree. I don't know. Do you guys feel
like I was referenced anywhere there? I don't think because I don't remember saying
Star Wars has been ruined as a franchise. I may have said it in other words.
I can't recall. Oh, no. Oh, today. That's what they said in 1999. They said it then. And they
say it now. I remember. Do you remember cyclical silliness is a phrase cyclical silliness. We're
done. We're fucking done. What? We're done. I'm out. Fuck this shit. Cyclical silliness.
I'm keeping that one. Yeah. Rags is out. I think we'll just you were bleeped more. I don't think
I mean, if he was referring to me, it's fine because Hello Greedo doesn't make the greatest
of arguments, typically speaking. I'm not too bothered if he thinks that I think that my child
has been ruined or whatever. Fuck. I don't know. I just if he wants to come on and talk about it
sometimes, I totally would. But yeah, as for whether or not Star Wars is ruined as a franchise,
my only take on that would be for some people, they will no longer be invested in the franchise.
So you could argue that the film has ruined that for them. I don't know how specific you want to
fucking get. It doesn't I don't really care if someone's hyperbolic about something like I'm
pretty sure Wolf actually did say in his video that like it's done damage to his childhood or
something some way. There's something that YMS picked up, funnily enough, in his TLJ video. I
think he saw Wolf's first or something like that. It's just it can all be discussed. It's fine.
Either way. You know, Hello Greedo is an interesting one. I don't know what else to say about that.
That's the nice way to put it before I asked Rags what's your take on Hello Greedo?
Fuck Hello Greedo.
There you go.
No, it's just the most it's it's it's such bad faith arguments and dull content that doesn't
have any intellectual merit to it. It's lazy thinking. It's it's just it's low tier stuff
that you like you cover if you're a starter YouTuber, and you just want to kind of learn
the ropes. You find these you find these these starter guys like Hello Greedo, and you just kind
of learn how to do the videos and stuff. And they'll they're they're good practice to help you
you know, learn how everything functions. Put your stuff out there. But it's not like, oh,
I took down Hello Greedo. It's like, yeah, that must have been difficult.
Very disrespectful to the actual Greedo. He's not even Greedo. He's clearly a Stormtrooper
lying in his own law. Does The Force Awakens use the wrong
font in the title is one of his videos. I'm intrigued.
The wrong font? What's the wrong font? Does it use Comic Sans?
I mean, the one thing I didn't note about his channel is that he sort of
he doesn't he clearly doesn't know what exactly to cover. I know a lot of people don't like the
fact that he he like jumped over parts of the Clone Wars, apparently, because he didn't like
the the episodes that have Jar Jar in them or something like that. But he seems to just try and
cover everything he can to do with stuff. Guys, he covered the bombers like more than a year after
the film came out, as like whether or not they valid enough like that four minute video. So
he's a strange one. Also, there's two more stupid chats. What made you guys, everyone,
decide to do YouTube videos? Oh, shit, the end of the show. I mean, you know, we can realize
that I was a gay man. I mean, the real the real answer is it just started out as a hobby and it
kind of took off. And so I kept doing it. That's really all there is to it. I didn't think it'd
get so big or get to this size, but it did. There was an audience for it. They liked it. And so I
I kept I kept doing it. I was inspired by a shit ton of other
YouTubers. And then I decided I had stuff to say. Yeah, because some things like say, for example,
like I was super passionate about Stoma and I was really annoyed that it had like no coverage on
YouTube in a way that was beyond the fact it's like it's a horror game. This kind of spooky,
but not that great low on mechanics. Anyway, next game, it's like when you realize that you
could put your voice out there and you have you can, you know, get a lot of influence, you know,
out into the internet sphere, then you feel a lot more invested in perpetuating the things
that you believe in and the ideas that you'd like. As you grow, you want to just keep expanding on
that. And then you realize a lot of people enjoy it and you want to do it for them.
You want to give people is like, hell, if you would have told me that, yeah, this fallout video you
did a million people are going to watch that. That's crazy to think about. That's insane.
A million people watched my stupid fallout video talking about how shit that game was.
That's wild. It's insane. Jay, why don't you feel the question?
Uh, I literally just started as something to do.
And it's only like later on and to like what I was doing, I was like, actually care about
ideas that I'm talking about now. I don't just want to make like, I started just making like
what I wanted to make initially was like a variety show of, hey, here's, I'm just going
to entertain you for like five minutes with whatever the fuck. And the ideas came later.
Like I actually want to talk about things I care about now and get like talk about writing
ideas in that. And that's only been really within the last year that I started caring
about that kind of thing. But yeah, initially it was literally just, I used to make videos.
I enjoyed it. Um, when I was a kid, I made like Lego animations. I was like, that was fun.
Maybe I should make a new kind of video. And then I did. And I enjoyed it. So I carried on.
Where about you, Billy?
I just like to talk shit.
I like it. Nice and simple. I like it. I mean, that's kind of the same for all four of us
ultimately. It's like, Oh, talk some shit. Yeah. Since it was brought up at YouTube channel called
bite size mauler uploaded clips and mauls videos by subject. Yeah. And this is the problem. It's
like, if it, if they start making money from it, it's like, I'm obligated to be like, what the fuck?
Just just by virtue of like, you're just taking content and doing that with it.
Uh, and it's run by a guy who like really doesn't like me.
He's an idiot. Um, I don't want to say that fucking retard.
Rusty cheese knife is a fucking.
Uh, so yeah, honestly, I'm too fucking early with all this stuff. I don't know how I feel about any
of it. Like I'm not sure what exactly I'm supposed to do, but, uh, there's, you know,
there's ways on YouTube to get it so that your content is protected. Like no one can just
re-upload it. And so it'll probably get to a point where I would enable it on a lot of
my bigger and longer stuff. Just because I mean, fuck, I'm supposed to protect my own content.
Right. I mean, if my whole entire country is going to engage in laws that do it,
I don't know, man, it feels weird. Like, what would you do rags if someone was
uploading parts of your videos on a channel and it got like successful if it got successful?
I mean, if it got successful, they, I mean, if it, if all they did was upload clips, then I would,
I want the money from it, you know, unless they were doing something with it that made it
transformative. If it was fair use, go for it. But if it's, if all it is is here's a clip of
rags saying this, and it's just a clip of me saying something, then they don't deserve
money for that. But I mean, it depends on, you know, it depends on the extent of it. If it's
just a small channel, I'm not going to worry about it. But when it gets to the point where
it's taking potential revenue out of my pockets, then yeah, that would, that would be where I'm
like, Hey, that's my stuff. But generally, it's one of those, it's generally, it's better to
just take the free publicity stuff. Yeah, I'm probably not gonna do anything about it until,
I don't know, it's presented to be an issue in some way beyond just looks like he's messing
around for now. I don't know if he's kept it up, because I think he very much doesn't like me anymore.
What's it called? He can bite sized molar, I think. Where did he used to like you then?
I use a big fan of mine at one point. But then for some reason, he, he hit his head on a coffee
table or something. And it just all went downhill from there. Three months ago and four months ago,
what's the latest upload for this one? Yeah, he hasn't uploaded since three months ago. So
I imagine it's staying that way. I have no idea. And it was I who asked the question about clones
Jay, that's from precious crystal fox boy. So they I'm happy to know that. Yeah, it wasn't just a
massive coincidence. Billy, you are back now, right? You're here. Yeah, I do. Do you want to talk
about your channel, your like actual personal channel instead of why people should subscribe?
Oh, I just do a lot of music and I haven't. But there's a bunch of videos there. Oh, sorry. Yeah.
I got like a bunch of music videos and stuff on my channel. I do rap a lot. So I don't know
if that interests anybody. It's it's I don't know, it's something I did. And then I got into
commentary and stuff when people started talking shit about how I look. So I started talking shit
back. And I don't really do that anymore, because I started to look really pretty. So everything I
do lately is like drunken peasants, you know, it's like my own channels, like a side thing,
when I want to make a new music video, I'll pop over there and put it up. There's new stuff
sometimes. So if you want to follow and check me out, you can do that there. But it's not really a
living channel right now. You know, it's like an archive for all the old shit I've done. I still
get, I don't know, people watching and everything. So if you're into rap or I don't know, comedy,
you can check it out. But it's really, it's just like, it's not like the average commentary channel
or anything. It's just shit talk, weirdo stuff. Well, there you go. Other than that,
subscribe to drug and peasants because we're going to be there. Hopefully. Yeah,
it's going to be fun. Yeah. And yeah, anything any of you guys want to say before we pretty much
close out? Arrival is good. Be confirmed to be continued. A rival will help to push you to your
highest potential by constantly challenging you. Can we can we call the arrival of a
rivalry of a rival? Why just just call it the arrival revival?
It was the toxic. Oh, is it this?
Yeah, no, they did. I believe Jay and rags read out all the details in the bottom.
Yeah, it was really good. Don't worry. I put a lot of yeah, I, I went down there and took a look.
You know, you know, I can't believe you didn't ask me if I want to promote my channel on your
podcast for the second time next week for the sixth time I've been on. If you guys want to
subscribe, loads of people who don't know who I am. He makes horrible videos. He always attacks
eFap. This is why he comes on to try and defend his claims and he never does. Fucking are toxic
fruits better than his toxic fruit. Yeah, go on. I got you made me feel bad now. Talk about your
channel. Don't go to it. That's my closing statement. Got him. That's, that's quite the
sell. I don't think I don't think many people will be able to resist. I've got one other request,
if I can go for it. If anybody saw the Shazam movie and liked it, would you tweet at me? Why
you liked it? I thought it was pretty fucking horrible, but I don't know. I have bad taste in
movies apparently. So I just, I don't know why anyone would say that. Yeah. I just thought it
was fucking, I don't know, lame. I don't know. And it's, it's, it's hard for me to explain. I was also
pretty high last night, which didn't help, but I was like just watching the film and I was like,
this is not, is this good? Fucking hell. Look at his URL for the, I'm trying to get your Twitter link.
Look at that URL. What the fuck? Question mark ref SRC equals T a W is the Google camp.
What the fuck is that? What is that? Am I a Russian spy? I think so.
Why would it do all that? You can't be a Russian that you like the lost Jedi.
All of that ridiculous link to his Twitter and ask him, tell him, tell him why you like the movie
guys. If you did tell me how you like Shazam. Cause I feel like I could be wrong here and I want
somebody to set me straight. I think YMS did a video on it. Uh, I need to watch that. I definitely
need to watch that. I don't watch YMS anymore. You're a racist and that's why I went, I went
to see the new Neil Breen movie with fun. Oh my. We're lucky that apparently just before closing
out, uh, Bayowin's got one more meme for us. We'll have to, I'll, I'll show it at the beginning
of the next defab as well. So the wolf can appreciate it. But, uh, actually I'm going to
boot him out so he can't see it. It'll be a surprise for him. Yeah. Oh,
it's not loading for way. Why does she have a tour flashlight? Look into the egg,
into the egg. Oh, that's the, that's the Prometheus tank thing. Yeah.
That's fucking beautiful. It's a rhino egg. Crazy. I don't know that we can confirm that
Jay, that's some high law. Well, it's going to love the eggs. I love it. Rhino's,
rhino's have eggs. Yes. We all know that to be true. All right. That's about it. So thank you
all for coming. Thank you for your very kind donations and art. It's always amazing. And
that website is now going to be a pretty much a major host of it. I guess the, uh, the link to
it will be in the description for now and potential future. Who knows? Also pop it in chat again.
And yeah, thanks for watching and thank you, uh, Ben and Billy for, uh, for coming on. It was,
it was great. And then Rags and Jay and Wolf, of course, Rags being our, uh,
enormous coveted guests. I always make time to be a guest here.
Wait, all of you go separately.
I closed the room separately. No, I mean, you all said a thing and I have no idea what any of you
said. Well, I was looking at the website, which just says Rags as a guest 30 appearances and was
referencing that top memes right there. Yeah. I'm just looking at the memes. I'm just going to say
that that's about the end of the show. It's been great. Uh, catch you guys. I'm going to say
hopefully next Sunday. Let's just say that as an expectation that we will subvert eventually. Um,
been fun. Goodbye everybody. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.
