It's totally casual. There's nothing to be concerned with. Let me make sure chat's actually
good and running, and then I will... This is a complete, like, out of nowhere as well. I
actually said there won't be any FAP this week, so people can be like, what? What the fuck?
Unsubscribed. I like the text messages you put in the... I was trying to make it work.
Yeah, but once enough people talk, no one will see the horrific messages I've sent about Fortia
behind his back. Where's the thumbnails of Nizhia and Happy Ghost? I fucking changed the thumbnail!
God damn it! Hello everyone in chat. How do you do everybody at Gatoru? Yeah, I guess I've uploaded
the thumbnail twice. I hope that actually changes for people. I'll be embarrassed and otherwise I'll
be like, what does this have to do with that? Actually, no. It'll work even with Amnesia.
Oh yeah, by the way, are you going to check the watch together? Oh well, I mean, I guess I could.
I was going to say, I'm not watching it properly. You know what's great is it shows it on the stream,
but it cuts off the last six letters, so there's no way the random public could get in because
they'd have to guess all six. So, haha, I didn't make that mistake, which would have been embarrassing.
We made that mistake a lot on out, like Rags in particular.
Rags is like a 60 year old man when it comes to computers.
When I had him on screen tape for this time, I was like, is everybody good to record their audio,
give it to me? Then he was like, what do you mean? I was like, record your audio on your end. He was
like, he was like, with what? I was like, audacity? And he was like, what's audacity?
And he was like, Amnesia, I mean, Rags, no, please.
Yes. Hello, chat. How do you do? Yeah, look, someone just said I was watching your Amnesia
versus Soba and you were saying you would respond to Joseph when this, when this video comes out
and it came out. That's the wondrous thing. So serendipitous. I'm not even kidding. 2015,
I think I did that series or was it 2016? But either way, he said during his Soma video
that he was going to make a video to explain why horror games just don't work. And I was like,
bring it on. But it's obviously it's very subjective, but there are also some points
in here that we can definitely get our perspectives on. But he very famously said, which I will meme
until it's I'm dead, that Soma is not a horror game because it's not scary, which is the most
retarded statement ever. And he's actually when I was watching this video, as soon as I got to the
part where he said summer, I'm like, yeah, I'm pretty sure he's going to respond to this one.
Oh, yes. I mean, so is my baby. I don't I don't mind admitting that. I think it's an excellent
game. Fun fact, because I'm new here, even though I've been friends with Mahler for a little while,
I actually met Mahler because if you guys recall, he did that video on Outlast and he was he was
picking out a bunch of other YouTubers that kind of didn't do very good synopses or just didn't do
a good job in general. And I was one of them. And it was really funny because I came I was watching
it and I got this like pit in the in my stomach. And I was like, fuck is my video gonna pop up in
the moment that I nearly had a panic attack. I was like, fuck, he's gonna rip me apart.
It was really fair. You were right. Because I was at the point of already trying to be like,
I've got to be nice. I gotta stop being mean. Like, people got really upset when I
rip into people they like. And I don't blame them. It's like, no one likes to see that. But
if if you're like Patrick Willems level, where you literally say like, up is down,
but down is up, and you just be like, what, why do you? And you don't find any easy on me,
you just kind of nit picked a point here and there. But yeah, after that, I messaged you on
Twitter. I was like, this is a really good video, dude. And you're like, Oh, thank you. And then
and then we became the greatest person in the world. Yes. So I may as well get around because
I know that there's there's a lot of people in chat would be like, okay, I know mauler.
So to my left is Fringy, who you guys he was on before for the for the Black Panther
epap, which was wonderful. Yes, that's right. The, the Rhino milk episode, the beautiful,
beautiful Rhino milk episode. So welcome back as a as a recurring guest, which this was a yeah,
so I should probably say is all this is an emergency epap, as we all get every once in
a while, you need a bit of an emergency one to pull out, you know, if you how you feel in the
moment, Joe's fantasy released this video. And I was like, Oh, my goodness, I want to respond,
but but rags is out of town. So I had to fill with with a bunch of these freaks like this
fringy person was was the first one. Thanks. Thank you so much. Then you go for this.
Then you got chase face is next up who I mean, yeah, he just explained like, that's that's
pretty much how I met him. I said, he's piece of shit. And then he was like, Hey, and then it was
like, Oh, you want to hang? Yeah, okay. I'm a little weeaboo faggot. I don't know why he talks
to me. See, see, that's you get yourself down when when you made what I would call was the best
video I've ever seen on klanoa. That's my, that's my thank you. I was generally find a way to promote
that one day, I just got to slip it in somehow. It's not awkward as hell. If I ever release a video,
I'll be the first step. But yeah, so he'll he'll be here to check this video out. And then to the
left of him would be a good friend of mine, Smiler Al, who was actually on I think the first
episode of if up with a different icon. Yeah, I can't remember what chapter that I don't think
it was the first one. It was one of the earlier ones. And it was you were there for Macintosh,
weren't you? Yeah, that was yeah. So that was like, what, third? I think so. But yes. And then
to the left of him is Mr. Metal Commander, who's never been on here before, to my knowledge.
Yes, that's true. Yeah, he hangs out like with me every once in a while. We like do stuff. And
he's good friends. So how I think we've all seen this video, aside from Alex,
not necessarily because we wanted to practice, you don't really do that on the show. But because I
was so interested in seeing what the arguments were. And there's already been responses that
I love watching Joseph Addison respond to criticism. It's so hilarious. He's a
he doesn't take it. Well, he gets very, very prickly.
It gives you a good idea of how they view themselves. If if because every now and then
someone will give me criticism and my immediate responses like, fuck you, you don't know what
you're talking about. But every now and then I have to stop to go. No, you know, that's really
the point is I was wrong. For instance, on Twitter, this is what he said. Way more people
criticizing this latest video without watching it than usual. I hope it doesn't mean it's always
this high and it's just more obvious this time. Why would why assume that? What if they did watch
the video and they disagree with you because of everything that they saw? But not fringy. They're
just haters. They're all haters, dude. Come on, get with it. Genuinely. Also, it is fringy on behalf
of the poor guy. He's he gets called fringy a lot. I know. It's okay. I got your back, bro.
Yeah, the when I saw the title of this, I was like, man, you really going to explain this in
13 minutes, like horror games. That's a very large genre, you know, because like, if someone said
why games don't work for me and then the video was I literally am dead. I have no arms, legs or
senses. So you'd be like, okay, but like, if someone's going to go out to like games because
I never played them or I don't like it, you used to be like, you surely gonna have to have a lot
of substance because it's going to take a while. Yeah, you would you would think that I mean,
you're effectively trying to say this entire genre that is effective for the majority of people
doesn't work. It's a pretty bold statement. And on top of that, then you there was like a
subreddit post for this video. And someone linked my soma videos on it. And Joseph Anderson actually
commented back to it, but he completely ignored my my videos, which I don't blame him because
I actually saw a couple of comments that we're just talking about your mallers video was way
more on point and they got criticized you but they were like, he's still an asshole like
narcissistic. It's not it's not exactly untrue. I was like seriously looking back and so what I was
like bad I was I was I was annoyed though he'd I genuinely think he dealt damage to soma like on
the makers of soma. Yeah, I remember how fucked off you were when you were making new videos on
that man. I have so much respect for frictional games and watching someone so influential say
yes, a shitty hard game. I'm like, Oh, fuck you. Like you'd have no idea how much effort they put
into making it a good game. Like, I mean, I'm a youtuber. If I don't like something poo poo,
it's not good anymore. Sorry, boys. Sorry, gamers. That's just the truth. And like he said at one
point, there's a there's a part in the game where you do a thing. And he talks about it in terms of
story analysis as if there's no choice, which there is a choice in that part and it betrays
the fact that not only did he not know there was no choice, but he only played the game once.
And to me, I'm like, Oh, played the game once. Yeah, because you forgot about the wow being
destroyed at the end. I think that's the part. Yeah, but you know, and there are valid complaints
for soma. I don't deny that it's just a lot of stuff he said was really dumb. I should say
straight away that we're probably going to be shitting on Joseph Anderson quite a bit in this
video, which you might notice is a bit of a running gag with all of maulers content. I want to say,
I want to say upfront, I've known about Joseph Anderson for a while. His perspectives are
interesting. I don't explicitly hate the dude. If he watches this, Joseph, I don't have anything
against you. Oh, I mean, I'll let him know that me and Alex both watched his the witness video. And
we say something along the lines, Alex, where we were like, why can't all of his videos be like
this? Yeah, well, I think the thing was with that one, it was I also most of the videos that I watch
out like, you know, I've played the games or whatever. So I don't just like instantly disagree
with him just because it's him. But the witness was actually like, Oh, yeah, no, I did research
with mine. He like personally got into it. Yeah, yeah, he did. Yeah, there's a lot of insight into
it. I wanted to comment on about the other title again, the whole why horror games don't scare me
out. It kind of come across as like, that can kind of pretentious brag when somebody like like brags
about how many like how much alcohol these drunken one miles. I'm sure that's not what he's going
for. You know, it doesn't touch me. I'm not I'm not affected whatsoever. But there were a couple
comments saying, Oh, look at a big the big manly YouTuber. He's not scared of us little games.
Okay, okay, son. Well, like, I was watching DSP play amnesia recently. I like this. There's a
bit where a door like flings open and wind just goes whoa, then he goes, Oh, wow, a door is that
supposed to scare me? I'm not scared. And he like, it comes across you're like, man, you really just
puff it up your chest there, aren't you? And I think that there's a bit of a disconnect for how
like, you're not supposed to be like, I'm, I'm courageous, it can't scare me. The game wants you
to be vulnerable to let yourself sink in, you know, and pretend for a second that you're actually in
this situation. Because obviously, there's no reason to be afraid of any game or film because
none of it's real, ultimately. But that's not why we do these things like this. We'll get to that
we'll get into that. So yes, I actually do think that Joseph is one of the better creators when it
comes to analysis and sort of video essays and stuff compared to people like downward thrust or
fucking other 100 names, not even on the same level. I just this is the thing I would be a
perfect world if everyone was on the on the same level or up from Joseph Anderson, because we could
be all having decent conversations instead of being like, wow, this guy literally did this for money.
Like also Joseph Anderson, if you listen to this, if you're listening now, or in the future,
please for the love of fucking God, get a better microphone, tweet me, I will I will literally help
you shop for one preamp. I'll help you set it up like everything just so the love of God stop using
your headset. I know it sounds be but my my criticism with that side of it would be like,
please sound more interested when you read your scripts. You sound half dead when you do you're
like, this game does this and this and this over here. Like, have you ever hit and make a joke?
You're like, go, why did the chicken cross the road? Get to the other side.
And then it carries on. There's a nice little gap. And you're like, oh, shit, that was a joke.
Like a bit flat delivery, because I'd say probably I guess to me the immediate comparison
with him would be to Matthew Matosis. But yeah, I find that Matthew Matosis is still
more interesting to listen to the fucking accent. I love Matthew Matosis.
Yeah, same here. I think he's one of the best sort of video game critics on YouTube.
Yeah, absolutely. I would definitely agree with that.
Some guy said I can't call people out sounding half dead and bored. I deliberately
tried to sound alive and well in my three hour videos. You sound like a fucking super villain
who's like slowly jerking himself off. Yes, I but I do appreciate that he puts a lot of effort
into his videos. Good for you, Mr. Joseph. And today, I know that the initial response to anybody
watching this will be like, man, you can't just let him have an opinion. It's like, we're going
to generate our opinion on his opinion. So his reaction culture, everyone get used to it.
If you if you want to say that you shouldn't say anything about it, because it's an opinion,
then we get to have that defense to give it give it over. It's ours. You can't keep it just for him.
You know, that's not how it works. Also, it's neat. We're on the 11th episode of eFap. We finally
passed the 10th on running straight ahead into into progress shouldn't I don't know. It's just
cool. 11 is cool. Okay, shut up. I'm looking for adding very little value to it. But yes, I am
ready to go. Is everybody there? Yeah, yeah. All right. Here we go. Yeah, boy. When I was a kid,
I was terrified of scary movies. Half of the reason why is that I watched some ridiculously
over the top horror movie when I was five years old and had nightmares for weeks. The other half
is a stronger version to being startled. As I got older, this I don't know you guys, but I can't take
seriously what people say startled. It reminds me of when people put Undertale music in the
background for the entire fucking video. Oh, is he is that what that is? Yeah, it's all the whole
thing. Oh, yeah, I wouldn't have chosen on which is fine. But it's like it's not 2016.
Go with bloodborne bloodborne would have been great. It's nice and creepy. But yeah,
startled reminds me of I am so startled. Okay. By the person who knows this reference.
Don't look me haggard. Friggy Chase, do you actually watch South Park or you both? Oh,
yeah, I love South Park. It's been a while. It's the giant watch TV anymore. I think it's
the giant like, is it gerbils or hamsters that attack the place? Yeah, it's a reference to
Cloverfield, I think. And I can't take the word startled seriously. I'm so startled.
You know, like, a starlet makes me think of stuff like, so you walk, you walk out of your bedroom,
and then like a brother or sister just standing and you go, Oh, hey, what are you doing? That
level of like, that could come from even like, you know, playing Mario like nothing. But I mean,
he uses startle quite a bit. I was just like, why not scared? But I think he considers them
two different things. I don't know. This is the other thing that someone brought to me though,
like, for a video like this, you got to be so clear on what these words mean, because otherwise
we're all just sitting here like, what is the difference between being scared, being spooked,
being startled variables, especially with what is what is horror, even what is what is it describing?
What is it to be terrified and horrified? What are the if you Google it, terror beads, great fear,
or great horror, and it's like, wait, it's hard, great fear. How does this work?
It is literally startled right now.
Let's let him go on.
As I got older, this extended to horror games. I remember getting chills when I was 11 years old
and saw this scene in Resident Evil for the first time. The remake version is still pretty spooky in
my opinion. It's funny, I actually got the remake for those the first one I played a Resident Evil
alongside mall combat. And this scene scared the shit out of me when I was younger.
I played two when I was a kid. But like the remake of one is is really fucking good.
Also, he says spooky a lot. It comes across as a little bit like, do you get this as a little
bit condescending? It's like, stop referring to scary as spooky. It makes it sound like you're
not taking it seriously at all. Yeah, in fact, in fact, nothing in video games truly scares me
anymore. Truly. You could explain this away by saying I was a wimp when I was a kid, and that I
grew tolerant to spooky stuff as I got older. However, there's a problem with this answer.
Horror movies still scare me. Sure, it has to be above a certain level of camp and actually
try to scare instead of startle. But these movies, what does that mean? I think what he's
yeah, I think he's drawing a distinction between movies that only scare you because they get catch
you by surprise. Yeah, isn't really like the which I find to be cheap, like the insidious style
conjuring the nun films, which is the most it goes. Yeah, like atmosphere versus
I guess alien, which I'd say is a horror film, but doesn't really do jump scares. It always sort
of builds up, builds up and ramps up towards I guess what you see coming or what you don't see
coming. Yeah, yeah, I could use attention. Does anyone know what I will film this is he's
currently using? I don't know. Actually, I don't recognize it. No idea. But these movies certainly
exist and can creep me out. Same for a few horror books. Yet games can't do it for me anymore. And
after years of thinking about it, the reason why finally coffee was playing. Well, what's what are
you? Well, what's wrong? He's not gonna shit on this is he? I don't think I can't I don't think
he's gonna shit on it's more like shitting on the genre not shitting on any specific game.
I don't know if that makes it better or worse out. I'm just gonna grip my chair alarms.
Games are of course interactive, the boundary between its characters and the audience is much
thinner than in any other medium. For the majority of a game's runtime, you are in total control
of a character and the line between you can blur. I agree. This is especially true in a game that
has a silent protagonist that you make in a character creator. But it's also true when
your character is their own entity independent of you in some scenes. No. Define for everybody.
Sometimes what's together can be a little bit glitchy. It's good for me. Sometimes I have
issues where I try to pause it and it just ignores me. Do you want to pull it back a bit for you for
me? Yeah, a little bit like 20 seconds. Sorry. That's right. And the line between you can blur.
This is especially true in a game that has a silent protagonist that you make in a character
creator. It's also true when your character is their own entity independent of you in some scenes.
This should in theory strengthen any situation that involves fear. In fact,
this is why it took me so long to realize why video games don't scare me because it
I'd like to stop there because I'd say that, yeah, it does actually make it scarier just
for most people. Um, it definitely makes it scarier for me. I hate to reference like amnesia
basically is for every single counter argument because that's probably what I'll do. By the way,
just for the record, Joseph Anderson, I don't think he completed amnesia and someone asked him.
I think I told you guys before one of the top comments was dude, play amnesia with the lights
off with headphones on and tell me that's not scary. And he replied to it saying it was boring.
Like, it's, I don't know, someone with ADHD, I can kind of understand that, but you still have to
give it anyone can find anything boring or exciting. That's, that's besides the point.
It's more about like, um, with, with amnesia, especially considering what he's just talked
about, I get like this, I was Daniel, right? When playing it, because, uh, what's really cool about
that game is that you learn about Daniel's history and instead of the character reacting to it,
like, Oh God, I did all this. It's up to you. It's on you. Cause this is you now,
you're getting told about all these things. When you start the game, you're a blank slate,
just like you would be going into the game without knowing anything. It's like,
if you get immersed, you become that person. And you know, that, that worked flawlessly for me,
but like he's going to explain why it just can't for him. And I, and it's interesting.
Cause I think, uh, for me, he said this, uh, in a PM one point, but it's just like that
interaction is why I pretty much say that like video games scare me more than any other medium
because I get so entwined with, as if I'm actually there, uh, when, when I'm, I think it's
perfectly normal reaction to any video game. It's like when you're in the middle of an intense
firefight and a shooter or something, and you start actually panicking when you think that,
I mean, you're not scared, but you start getting frantic about it, even though,
yeah, it technically doesn't matter because you're just played over again, but that's,
you don't think about that. I don't, I don't find like sometimes you'll be consciously aware of,
I'm going to have to respawn and do that all over again. But I think most of the time you're in the,
you're sort of pulled into the experience. I mean, that's how games work. That's why games are fun.
Well, this is my opinion, which is why I mean, we'll, we'll get there. But like,
I always felt like this video should have just been a conversation about immersion rather than
yeah. I like to have said that you're peaking a little bit.
So if you can turn your microphone down by like five decibels or something,
okay, actually, I could just like, I can just turn it down. Hang on.
That should be better. Yes, I apologize. Yeah, I mean, the video so far is fine because he's
just setting the groundwork. So it's like, yeah, this is great. We're still waiting.
We're getting to it.
We're getting to it.
Fear should be one of, if not the most powerful emotion that video games can invoke.
When you're watching a movie, it's a character that you are passively tethered to that is in
danger. You can't change anything that happens, although you may become so involved that you start
yelling at them not to split up or to not go through some spooky door that obviously leads
to something horrible. But you yourself are never in any peril.
What he's just said would be arguments for why movies don't work as well as games.
For many people.
What's the fact that if someone told you it's like, it's predetermined, I have no interaction
with it. So I'm not really scared for them. So I know that they're dead or alive either way.
You know, I don't agree with that statement, but someone can make it. And I just wonder how
he reacts to that. Sure. How he reconciles it. Because obviously he would say, well,
that's on them. This is for me. And it's all subjective. I'd be like, okay,
I thought we could have a conversation, but fine.
When you realize this, you may wonder why do you feel scared at all? Well, an answer,
but not the only answer is empathy. Either you are invested in a character or you are
imagining what it would be like if you were in that same situation. If you were being hunted
by some unstoppable supernatural force surrounded by zombies stalked by nightmares. Terrifying.
If you were to, yeah, why did he use Twilight footage? Right? I think it's supposed to like,
sort of be a joke. I've got to imagine it's a joke. Like he's pretending that Twilight is
always like a morrow. If you consider it just why it's not a conscious thing that I didn't
catch the first time. I was like, is that fucking Twilight? I can't just go straight away. I was
just like, well, okay, go on, go surrounded by zombies stalked by nightmares. Terrifying. If
you were to jump into the situation in place of the character, you can imagine how vulnerable you
would be. So again, doesn't it feel so intuitive that in a video game, everything should be heightened
since you are that character. You are in control. You are in the dangerous situation instead of the
characters on their own. Well, turns out, no, not at all. Is that right? This is a problem with
script, right? You could be like, that's just his opinion. He's like, well, he just, he just said
it as if it's just not an overarching problem. Just his personal, you know, I was thinking about
I think last night where I think more or I had a conversation like about
Marvel movies. And I think it was something to do with, you know, the heroes just dispatching of
the goons. Like it's nothing but never taking out the actual bad guy. And I think what we like,
I realized that it was a petty non-complaint that didn't matter and that I couldn't apply to
anybody else. This is what this video comes across as to me. I do want to read, listen to this again
in case he actually did sort of add in a subjective part of it. Cause I could have sworn he just said
like, it's just not the case. Well, that's not the case. Yeah. But does he say everyone in chat
saying he says for me, so I'll, uh, I'll let it play. Since you are that character, you are in
control. You are in the dangerous situation instead of the characters on their own. Well,
turns out, no, not at all. At least not for me. Okay. He saved it.
Hang on though. He said not at all. At least not for me. It's like,
all right. You got so, you got so fucking side swept by that first comment. You're just like,
this is true. It's like, it's like a police show up and you go, I didn't do anything. They go,
and they slowly back away.
Video game protagonists aren't human. You cannot fully commit to imagining what it would be like
if you were to take their place because you are already in the place along with them. In addition
to the superpowers, every video game, this is where it gets really confusing. This is where it
gets pretty ridiculous human. Uh, so I think his first, I mean, I don't know how to break this up
because it's all fiction. It's, it's not, it's real. I think this is his first mishap is because
it seems like he's applying a different criteria to video game characters than a film character or
a book character. Yeah. When he says that they're not human, I'm pretty sure he will refer this to
the fact that he believes that respawning is a super power. Yeah. That is, so you cannot
relate to any of these characters. Does he have any time, um, talk about identify with your
characters? Uh, this is 30 minutes. Isn't it like the whole emotional investment? Like, you know,
because like he's using ideas at the moment. It's like, you know, whether or not you, do you like
empathize with him? None of that matters because of the fact that you cannot be a super super
human being that, um, you respawn. But the irony is like, there are games where you play as super
characters and you identify with them. It's a system shock to like contextualizes how you can
respawn and still be the same person again and again and again. Well, that's the thing. I thought
they're not horror. I was going to say like these, these are characters with powers, telekinesis and
stuff, but you get, I was super invested in bio shock because like, and it didn't matter that,
funnily enough, that's actually working as a counter as well because that has a narrative
to account for respawning. He does mention that, but um, he doesn't necessarily, he like mentions
that's a thing, but he doesn't say if it works for him or not. He sort of just moves on. I think you
needed to spend more time on that because there is a distinction to be drawn between a game that
contextualizes respawns and one that doesn't because the one that doesn't, you just got to treat that
as non canonical. Like this is what might have happened, but it's not canon. You got to do it
again. And once you think of it like that, there's no difference between a video game
and a film because it's, because it's still a set, you know, set sequence of events until the end.
So if he could get terrified, like it just seems to be this weird boundary that he's put there.
It is a weird boundary because you start to ask yourself, like he says, like, this is a super
power, therefore you cannot relate. And it's like, there are plenty of superpowers these characters
have. This guy is a super power. This guy is in a different part of the universe,
fighting and just literal demons in chat. Kyle Castorana said, even if you can't respond,
IRL, you also can't get chased by a xenomorph either. So what's this point?
I was going to say he rags on about Soma, but it's like Soma, when you get killed,
like you get like a free guy kind of thing where like you get, you get knocked down versus like
dying, like respawn in the menu, like actually gives you, it tries to make it like, you know,
oh, you've got another chance. And that ties into a second issue, which is that there's
no repercussions for death. Which is not true. You have to do it again.
How would you have repercussions for death and not break your immersion because you would have
had to have died, which is impossible according to him. We should, we should wait. You have
repercussions. You got to do it again. That's the repercussions. This is why, this is why he needs
to be like talking about this with someone before making this video. There's so many conversations
to have so many different ways you can take this because I have no idea what he was trying to say.
I feel like when he scripts it, he's just like, this is inherently valid. Moving on.
But the thing is, this is, this is before he's gotten into the meat. So we'll give him a shot.
I want to see, he does say here, I'll relate some cause of super power. And I think the first
thing he says is because of the, they respawn. I don't think he says anything else.
Game protagonists aren't human. You cannot fully commit.
Aren't human thing is bizarre. It is. It's really strange.
It's kind of just misphrased, I think.
I think he's trying to make a point there. I'm just not following what it means.
Have you guys ever played a game that you connected to the person? They're not human
anyway. They're a different, they're like an alien.
Crash Bandicoot, Crash Bandicoot.
Clannoyle in the co-op.
Clannoyle, exactly. Yeah.
You don't need to be human to, this is the, damn it.
To imagining what it would be like if you were to take their place because you are already in
the place along with them. In addition to the superpowers, every video game protagonist has.
Typically, a main character in a video game can't die.
I have to say, just listen to that part again, but listen to the music. It's so like,
why did you choose this track?
Are already in the place along with them. In addition to the superpowers,
every video game protagonist has.
I mean, I don't even know what song it is, but it's just like, why?
In his defense, it is kind of hard to find good music for like horror.
He likes Bloodborne.
No, just put a Bloodborne soundtrack on.
Well, I was going to add without using the same soundtrack over and over again,
because Bloodborne is good, but if every video had Bloodborne music in my game.
Well, Silent Hill's music would have been perfect for this.
I was just saying, take a horror game.
Even the Alan Wake soundtrack would probably work, to be honest.
I've not heard it recently.
There's a lot of choices.
There's a lot of choices.
Just comes across as carnival music right now.
That's weird.
It's fine. It's fine, Joe. I don't mind.
I'm more interested in the script.
The protagonist has.
Typically, a main character in a video game can't die.
Sure, they can get ripped apart and paled through the chest,
blown up, all sorts of things, but they always come back.
Sometimes it's contextualized within the game's world.
Sometimes it's a simple reload screen and you're good as new.
Better actually.
See, and that's the issue already.
So they did die.
You just now go back to a reality in which you did not.
It's almost as if players want to finish the game.
I mean, that's kind of the point that I was making before.
It's just you got to treat it as non-canon.
That's how you reconcile.
Yeah, you tried again.
You didn't.
It's not like a guy who dragged your body back to where you were.
It's an alternate.
Injected you with a thing that resurrected you.
It's like, no, that's done.
That timeline is done.
It's a non-canon fail state, essentially.
Yeah, unless contextualizes it.
That's how we all go forward with it.
We're like, that's.
Something that you don't even think about, though.
It's just that's how it works.
That's the crux, isn't it?
It's like he's saying he thinks about it.
And that's like, okay, that's your problem.
Well, many would argue that he's only explaining his problem.
He's not explaining a problem.
But the thing is, he's absolutely explaining a problem.
He's not suggesting solutions to this problem.
It's not a problem.
Right.
That is the problem with the video.
I also saw him say to somebody on Twitter that it's pretty.
He was effectively saying that video game characters have superpowers
because they can't die.
So he's not stating it like it's his opinion.
He thinks that that is a fact about video games.
Not to mention.
He does account for this in a bit, but it's just like this.
This line of reasoning already makes us wonder.
It's like, so you want it.
You want permadeath.
Does that solve your problem?
Right.
Yeah.
And obviously, again, does that solve the problem?
No.
Because you still have to restart the game.
So it will never work.
The other issue is that you get.
You get let's say let's say he was saying he's not saying this,
but let's say he said alien isolation, amnesia, whatever else.
It would be fixed with permadeath and then he's happy.
Imagine the amount of people that would never complete these games because of that.
Like the amount of people who say my mission was broken
because I can't have to restart the fucking game.
And it would be super scared.
And that would make it worth it.
All the sales they'd lose.
Let's tell you what is so scary playing the same like five hours over and over again
and being like,
there we go.
It's annoying enough with certain games that have saves.
There's like alien isolation can get you replaying the same past half hour or more
if you die without having saved.
I mean, that's kind of the problem when it comes to horror games
because as soon as you die and you have to go back immediately,
like you get the chance to sort of rectify that non-canonical.
Yeah, but that's the point of games though, isn't it?
Like to figure out what you did wrong and do it again.
They highlight this issue.
They're like, when you play a horror game, it's scary up till you die.
And then you're like, well, that's the high.
Here's something that always occurs to me.
So like outlast when I played that in, you know, fucking 2014, whenever it came out,
that was the scariest shit ever because partially I didn't understand how the AI worked.
I didn't know where the enemies were.
It was just complete shroud of mystery that I was walking into sprinting into even.
And then as soon as I played it again a second time, it was not scary at all
because I immediately knew what was going to happen, of course,
but I knew I started to figure out the AI and then you could fuck with them and play with them.
So as soon as mystery starts to, you know, become more clear, for example,
when they were remaking Resident Evil 2, like the new one that is,
they did an interview with the guys who worked on the first game.
And the interviewer was this British guy and he just asked him like, okay,
I have to ask you how do the Crimson Heads work?
Because it terrifies me.
It's so scary.
And he just laughed and looked at him and said,
I think it's scarier when you don't understand how it works.
And like that always stuck with me.
I was like, yeah, that's true.
Because as long as you don't understand it, it's fucking terrifying.
And I was just going to say that the idea that you die and then redo even 10 minutes of a game,
it'll start to sap the fear factor, which is actually kind of what Joe's fans is getting at.
But it's it's different for everybody.
For a start, like you could have someone literally restart the same section
10 times over and they're still terrified because they're just that invested.
But Frictional tried to fix that.
They were like, okay, so when you get hit by a monster in Amnesia, you get tagged for damage.
And I think on the lowest difficulty, if you have a lot of health,
it can take three hits from the basic enemies until you die.
I'm so like Alex pointed out, you you get you fall to the ground.
Everything goes black.
And then you wake up, you know, X amount of time later and you get up and you have a limp.
The idea being because it matches the narrative that the monsters only come after you because
you're moving and making noise.
And once they knock you down, you stop.
That's it.
So you carry on.
You're like, oh, thank God I escaped, you know, death.
And that was their angle.
They were like, they were trying to find a way around it.
But the fact is, like, you still die in those games.
Eventually, you still have a failure state because it's a game.
And they didn't want to make a fucking rogue game where you like,
restart the entire game.
This is the thing.
There's so much nuance to this, this topic.
Since you've learned something to avoid that same death next time.
See, it's because of the interactive nature that this doesn't work.
When a character is in danger in a movie or a book, there's a lot of people argue it
ruins a script.
It would not have ruined that sense to say this is why it doesn't work for me.
Oh, yeah, it's fine.
Absolutely fine.
The danger in a movie or a book.
There's already a set ending for them.
They very well could die in the scene that you're watching.
As I say, is he discounting the choose your adventure books?
Yeah.
What's his perspective on rewatching a horror movie?
Are they ruined after you've watched them once?
I know she dies.
Fuck off.
That's what I'm saying.
Like, I don't watch Alien again.
Dallas is just going to kill, you know, horror horror movies don't work for me
because all of these characters are actually actors adhering to a script that was not somebody
once you recognize this horror films aren't scary anymore.
Anybody could make these weird arguments.
It's just not that strong.
Yeah.
See, there you go.
There's already two people have said, like, isn't it pretty obvious?
He's just arguing for himself.
No, it's not really not.
And you'll never know exactly what he was actually arguing was a
definitive issue versus an issue for him.
And that's precisely why they do it.
They they'll avoid it.
And you could be like, Joseph, did you make a singular point in this video that wasn't subjective?
Do you make anything in terms of mechanical criticism?
I'm pretty sure you would say, like, well, no, I did share something.
Is there an issue that he didn't explicitly state that?
Well, I haven't got a quote from him, but I'm assuming for the fact that he released
this video that he wanted to share something of a mechanical analysis
rather than just saying, this is all my feelings.
Since that is kind of what he does, you know,
because he does loads of great teardowns of stuff with actual, like, actual shit, you know,
the Mario one, he tried to, like, sort of prove tedium by showing how many of the same thing there
is. And obviously, you can't you can't prove that there's a feeling that someone will definitively
have, but he provided great evidence for why you may feel it is is where, you know, and that's fine
with me. But like, this is my problem with this. He's like, this is why I feel this way that, you
know, you die and respawn in video games. And we're just sitting here like, you enjoy anything then
because this thing shit happens in basically every piece of media that are limited by their own
delivery. Well, limited by the fact that they aren't real, you know, like, it would have to
be real for it to be truly authentic. Otherwise, somebody's actually kidnapped Jordan Anderson and
hold his throat for him to feel a sense of immersion. I think this is all rooted in the
problem that for him, it seems to be that death is the main thing about horror, like dying is the
main scary part. And scary part isn't necessarily atmosphere. I wouldn't say sorry to interrupt,
I wouldn't even say that it's dying. It's like the looming threat of dying and all of the other
sort of audio cues that come with it personally, like I'll talk about Visage in a little bit,
because that's the really hot horror game that everyone's been playing lately. But that game
has a lot of really interesting kind of horror philosophy behind it in terms of design.
I just want to clarify as well, even if it is just his opinion, we're still welcome to counter
or criticize. If he says something like, this is just how I feel, then we go, okay, but that feeling
sure, like say, for example, I said, I love all kinds of bright lights, but I hate torches.
You'd be like, why? And then someone goes, that's just how they feel. It's like, yeah, but
we want substance. That's just, that sounds like nonsense. Like, it's weird.
And yeah, you know, so, so call us assholes if you want, but we're trying to dissect his,
his points, even if they're all assholes. And you're, you're right. We are assholes.
Ending for them, they very well could die in the scene that you're watching,
or face lasting repercussions for mistakes. There's tension because every injury and every
death is canon. Whereas a death in a game is a release intention instead of cranking the
pressure even higher. You hit a fail state and restart. Suddenly that monster that killed you
isn't nearly as threatening anymore, since you've just experienced the reincarnation superpower of
your, but you know, you can kill you again. Superpower. It's not fail effect. I can't even.
I want to stay silent. I'll let you guys have takes because this is this so much to unpack.
It's ridiculous. Yeah. Well, the first thing I would lead with, I think was that he doesn't
seem to make the connection that the main continuity of the game is canon in the same
way that the film is canon. So why is it that there's this distinction where even though we
can recognize that both have a canon continuity, only one of them is effective. As people are
saying, respawning is not a fucking power. You die. Now you're playing with someone who did not die.
That's the, it's like, I guess he's pushing that point in of immersion and atmosphere.
I would say that like, if the character isn't aware that they respawned, then it's not a
superpower treated as non-canon. What happens when Joseph Anderson plays a horror game and he managed
to not die? Does it become effective? This game's kind of easy. I have to, I'm not saying get good.
I am not saying get good, but if the problem is I keep dying and now I'm dismissed, like, uh,
what about that guy over there who completed it without dying? He said it was the most terrifying
thing ever in his canon. He never died or he died at the end, whatever. Well, in your canon,
you died like 20 times according to you. It's so like, how do you reconcile that? And you're saying
you always had that superpower though. You always had the super power to respawn. It's like, yeah,
but okay. Right. But here's, here's something I've actually been thinking about. Um, I, I was
thinking about, you know, how with a film, if you're watching it, you know that at the second act,
the main character is probably not going to die. Like, yeah, there's a slim chance that they might,
but you pretty much know that the main protagonist isn't going to die before the third act. Um,
you could, what if you were to take somebody, sit them down in a room and get them to play
a horror game and you didn't tell them if there was permadeath or respawns. What happens now?
Like if, if Joseph Anderson got taken into a room, sat down to play a game and he wasn't told
if it had permadeath or not, what, what would happen? You know, what, what would change?
Personally, when you find out while playing, you guys know layers of fear, right?
That game didn't have any kind of actual death in it. I'm pretty confident. And I just found it
really annoying because what would happen is you would walk forward into a scripted death animation,
fall down on the ground like you're dead. And then you would wake up, respond in a new room.
So it just progresses the story, which isn't really a death as much as it is.
Oh yeah. It's like the story. But I found that really fucking annoying when I played that when
I figured out, when I figured out, it was like almost a mechanic that was slapped on
because they didn't really plan for you to actually say, for example, the monsters come
and you run into it instead of running away just to test what happens. And it's like, uh, you follow
like, Oh, okay. It's a bit weird. And yeah. And, uh, cinema since, since just mentioned in fairness,
that, um, you could argue the superpower aspect is that you get the experience from that previous
life. But I mean, my question would be, well, what happens if you repeat playing a game or what
happens again with films when you watch a film for a second time, I'm genuinely curious,
does Joseph Anderson think that films at horror films are terrible after you've watched them once
like a second time cannot work? No, interesting to know. Yeah.
So yeah, I would say a lot of it is just kind of comes down to the detail. Like if you, even if
you know, this character is going to die, then you can still be freaked out by the details and the
tension and just sort of like the pacing. Of course, I agree. Cause I love rewatching some of
the greatest horror films. And just for the record, obviously I'm nowhere near as like,
I'm not as much of an intellectual powerhouse as any of the people in this chat who probably have
way more experience, like actually sitting down and thinking hard and critiquing things. I'm just
like, yeah, I like fucking this game at did a cool thing. So I see what he's saying.
You overestimate me.
Yeah. I'm just thinking that like a lot of the, a lot of the best horror films, um,
or the ones that I enjoy the most are the ones where the dread comes not just from what's
happening in the film, but I guess the question that it raises, like I'd say, uh, alien and the
thing of two good examples, because whether or not you've watched it before the idea of that
creature, it's still terrifying. And the idea that it's maybe possible because there's so much stuff
in space, I think is probably the more effective horror component of it for me personally.
Yeah. I think the more, the more I think about like the details of something and then if it
were to make sense, just what that would entail. Like, for example, a lot of, uh,
SCP related content, just the amount of detail that goes in the backstories of those, just to
make it so like spine chillingly terrifying. The more you think about it, that's the kind of stuff
that really like keeps me up at night personally. Just sort of two pieces of information to throw
in one being, so I mentioned the thing and it's like every single time I watch that film, it just
works. Like it creeps me out every time. Um, but, but CinemaSins since mentioned that, um,
there's no, there's no, it's rare to find a horror film that will be as scary the first time around
simply because you don't know what's going to happen. And it's like, I don't necessarily disagree
with that. I think that's what I'm getting at. It's like what Joseph Anderson's describing
as ruining his immersion. I'm trying to say like, isn't that par for the course and basically all
media, right? Because eventually you know that it's not that bad. I guess you know it's going
to happen. Yeah. There's no easy solution really. Yeah. What can you do other than bar
people from having access to it again? We've been lingering on this. Bands you on steam.
It's like a thing you have to agree to buy a bio. Sorry. You try to, you try to get a different
account and some steam official comes to your house like, excuse me. Now that's horror. That
is horror. State and restart. Suddenly that monster that killed you isn't nearly as threatening
anymore since you've just experienced the reincarnation threatening by the way,
because this monster has just killed you is no longer as threatening. It's like,
I don't know. I think it's pretty threatening. It's proven that it can kill me, but I think
I think what he should have said there was scary probably like, yeah, yeah, no problem.
It's not even taken into consideration that games are mostly for overcoming a challenge of some
sorts and not for your character to be dead all the time. Asaurus. How do you explain primitive
and battle? Well, you can still restart the game. No. Superpower of your character that you always
knew was there, but may have blissfully ignored until now. Imagine this happening in a movie.
Death ruins horror games. Now it could be that many can still separate themselves from video
game. You know, where it's like, Oh, this is my said death ruins horror games. That doesn't sound
does that sound like an opinion or statement as everybody will say, he only needs to say
it's his opinion once or twice or five or 10 times, but then you understand that it's always
his opinion. Even when he makes statements to say, I'm annoyed at just how much screen time
dead space is getting. Cause that game is scary, but I don't really think it's that scary to warrant
like using it that much throughout the, it strikes me as like, he only had like a couple of horror
games in a steam library. He's like, all right, I'll just cap capture a little bit of this. Alex,
what do you find scarier? Alan Wake or dead space? Yeah, I'd go with dead space.
I was more creeped out by dead space, but it could be, I could argue is for more arbitrary reasons.
Like I think no, actually, to be honest, but like, which one's more atmospheric? I'd be like,
there's more probably jump scares in dead space. But I also think dead space is more atmospheric
because of I tend to prefer like science fiction horror for whatever reason, more so than other
types of horror, maybe because there's a little bit of plausibility to it. Like it might be plausible.
So this is able to go on sometime in the future or it is going on right now.
Perhaps that well, space is so big. There's no way that we could actually like paranormal
we know is not real. Like it's not real. Whereas science fiction is plausible.
We're gonna have to keep saying this. I told you we'd have to keep saying this. Someone said,
did you just read the name of the video? So why horror games don't scare me, meaning everything
is subjective aside from the times where he's not. Guys, please listen. He makes statements that are
definitive sometimes. Okay. And we're trying to figure out which ones those are. It's tough
because I guarantee you Joseph Anderson probably would be like, it's subjective if it can be
counted. If it can't be counted, it was objective. It's like, it's almost like they didn't watch any
of your other videos. And it doesn't mean that we can't criticize it even if it is his opinion.
It's almost like I should put that just in big, a big fucking a stamp on the screen the whole time.
All of their real human weaknesses in their place and be spooked. I will never say that
is an invalid reaction to horror games. However, doesn't it also mean that the game has failed to
fully connect you with the character you're controlling? Think of it this way. There is an
Olympus Monsized difference. I want to hear that. Yeah, I kind of do as well. I don't know how to
movie death ruins horror games. Now it could be that many can still separate themselves from
video game protagonists and imagine themselves with all of their real human weaknesses in their
place and be spooked. I will never say that is an invalid reaction to horror. So you're saying
you could play it and just ignore the fact that these people have more power than you
and just feel scared on behalf of yourself as opposed to you wouldn't be as scared playing
somebody else. I want to see what he says afterwards because I feel like there's something
that I'm thinking about with all of their real human weaknesses in their place and be spooked.
I will never say that is an invalid reaction to horror games. However, doesn't it also mean that
the game has failed to fully connect you with the character you're controlling?
Okay, right now I know what I've been thinking. If I were to make it a point that a film isn't
scary because I recognize that they're actors reading a script, then I could easily make the
same argument that hasn't a horror film failed in some way because you have to force yourself
not to think about the fact that there were a bunch of camera guys behind the camera
and that somebody sat down and wrote this and that a bunch of actors shot several scenes at a
time, you know, it's not seeing how somebody could make this argument. It just seems like
you have to deny the fact that it's fictional media altogether.
And he's just said like, isn't that a failing on them to miss out on being able to connect you
more so by making the character more so like you and I just be like, again, I don't really understand
where this is coming from. I can connect to, you know, like a space marine gible running around
if they've got a great character versus an actual human in a normal day job, but he never says
anything and it's just taxes. I'd be like, I don't care. He has nothing to do with your actual
capabilities. I mean, the darker glow in chat said nightmare on Elm Street is just Robert
England reading a script. Those aren't even real burns. Not even real blood, but he kills the actors.
It's just fucking fake blood and shit. I bet those actors are still alive today.
This mon size difference between holy shit, that character is going to die and holy shit,
I'm going to die. And this is all something a horror game has to deal with before deciding
whether or not you can fight the spooky enemies and whether that combat will be purposefully awkward
to try and raise the tension. Wait, wait, wait, wait. So a difference between the characters
going to die and I'm going to die. And see, this is, this is why I don't think he's been precise
enough in a video game while you are playing a character that they are a character. Not to
mention, I don't think I personally, I think it's more complicated than just those two as well,
because even if I in a video game, there are characters I'm not playing as that I care about.
And I care about myself and I care about the character I'm playing as. There's also the aspect
of just drop me in an environment that's scary with no characters. It's just a camera and I can
get freaked out if you have the right atmosphere. And so how do you explain that? Is that me being
afraid for my life or afraid for a character's life when there isn't even a character?
Horror isn't just dying. It's not just about dying. Like there's, there's more to horror being
effective than just dying themes, tone, atmosphere, sound design, presenting, presenting the ideas of
Lovecraft to people is enough to freak them the fuck out. Yeah. Like Cthulhu, man. That's scary.
Yeah. If it actually existed, you can't do anything to stop that. That would be terrifying.
You'll point out he's using Hollow Knight's music now. I've sort of, I'm paying so much attention
to what he says that I've just ignored the music at this point. Yeah. I don't want to pick on it
too much. But why does he keep using Twilight? And he mentions like character in film. It's like,
People find out that he was joking, but I didn't understand how it fit in as a joke in that one
particular shot. Yeah. Yeah. Cause like, I don't, he's like not joking for that first part. He's not
joking like that, is he? Was he? I don't know. I don't think he is. I don't know.
And this is all something a horror game has to deal with before deciding whether or not you can
fight the spooky enemies and whether that combat will be purposefully awkward to try and raise
the tension or something closer to an action game and an enjoyable part that isn't meant to be scary.
Do you catch that? He, he implied that like you can't enjoy the combat and stuff like Resident
Evil cause it's too clunky. I'll let him go. I'll let him go. He's fine. He didn't reference
Silent Hill because that would be the one of the worst offenders. It's like, uh, I don't even
necessarily disagree with them to be honest. Like it works. It works. Yeah. There are games that
obviously like amnesia's sanity system is absolutely an example of them trying to cripple
your standard abilities as a gamer to make you avoid them. It doesn't want you just to like,
just run circles around them. Yeah. It wants to make the enemies stronger by making you weaker.
Like there are a lot of different design ideas you can do. And again, this, this is a conversation
that could last for like an hour talking about how all different games try to weaken the player
and strengthen the enemies and all the different methods. He's like, he's writing it off so broadly
that you're just like, this, you know what, this is my conclusion of this video. It makes me wonder
what the hell he thinks about like a million topics when it comes to horror. This is just so vague.
It can talk about it for more than 13 minutes. And now you know,
across the board, it doesn't scare him. So there's your answer.
Check me. This is where I conclude that most horror games aren't truly scary, but aren't
set for what I will say as well as he has not got enough references. We've got Dead Space,
Alan Wake and Alien Isolation. Twilight. Yeah, it's either Hill two at one point.
He did. Yeah, he briefly mentioned it. Like what I'm saying is like, go for, I don't know,
go for some more. Like, I mean, he's going to have more references as we go, but I just mean,
well, get, get some more in there and explore the mechanics. I don't know. Feels kind of weird
because like, I just never look at, uh, like Dead Space and Amnesia and Silent Hill, for example,
those three, it's just like, wow, how fucking different those three are, you know?
Yeah. It's funny. Somebody mentioned in chat, uh, he needs to play until darkness.
I'm pretty sure he mentions eternal darkness in this video. Uh, does he, he mentions until dawn
as well. Oh, we'll let that, I want Alex to hear that. What? Well, I heard that Edward was erect.
I saw, I saw ED and then you say eternal darkness and I was like, oh, I thought they were talking
about erectile dysfunction. That'd be a good game for me. That'd be a good horror game.
Very horrifying. Not terrific on their own. They can have disturbing imagery,
oppressive atmospheres, but this is done in the same way that many other genres theme their games.
How is that not horror though? I don't see, how does he even separate that out? How can you do
that? So horror themes and horror are not the same thing. He's like, oh, the, the atmosphere
and the imagery and the artwork, that's just themes. Like what was theming? What do you mean?
He needs to be more precise of what he means. He did this in the Soma video. He said that,
Soma will have atmospheric sounds. It'll have visuals that are terrifying,
but all of that is just like this stuff telling you to be scared. It's not actual scares.
I'm just sitting like, what the hell is actual stuff then? Like he said true something earlier.
Just tell me what it is, Joseph, please. By the way, a few seconds earlier,
Jenna just pointed out, this is where I conclude most horror games are not scary. That sounds like
an opinion. Not horrific on their own. They can have disturbing imagery for the back.
Meant to be scary. This is where I conclude that most horror games aren't truly scary,
but are instead worth. Yeah. He said they're not scary, but they're not truly scary,
but horror themed. That's such a, that's the kind of shit that triggers me in Alex,
because it just doesn't mean anything. Not truly scary as what you would conclude.
Doesn't fucking mean anything. It's not horror. It's not trying to scare you. It's the same
shit you did with Soma. Well, he, in that Reddit post, someone called him out for the Soma thing
and he was like, okay, well, I wasn't scared, exhausted, thrilled, spooked, startled. I wasn't
at all out of, out of breath or whatever with, with Soma whatsoever. It didn't do anything a
horror should do. Therefore it isn't horror. And it's like, that's not how genres work.
What? Patches a spider said my themes. Yeah. Well, you said that it's like the most
robotic response ever. It's like, Oh, well fuck it. I can't help you with that. I'm sorry.
It'd be like, if I, if I said, you know, I watched alien and yes, there's a spaceship.
Yes. There's, there's a planet that's never been visited before and it's in the future, whatever.
But I didn't get the sense of technology. I didn't get the sense of progressional futurism.
So it's not really sci-fi. I watched, uh, Terminator 2, but I didn't get the sense of
action or thrill. So it's not an action film. None of it is real. So it wasn't worth it.
They were all actors bad. They were all just actors. Did you guys know this? It's like
huge revelation. Horror games aren't truly scary, but are instead horror themed,
not horrific on their own. They can have disturbing imagery, oppressive atmospheres,
but this is done in the same way that many other genres theme their games,
action combat and, or a puzzle solving in a fantasy setting, sci-fi setting, historical setting.
It's spooky setting. I know it's not like, I know he's not focusing on that particular game,
but like, it's just when like the footage lines up a bit. I'm just like, it kind of works. We just
think it's intentional. It's like, no, it's not. Oh, we got, we got a nice thing. And then another
thing. Gallus said, tell chase. I like his content. Say your face. Fuck you. Just kidding.
Thank you. That Michael said, I like what are your dark souls with his baller,
but Joseph Addis is a better content career. Oh man. Fair enough, man. Fair enough setting,
sci-fi setting, historical setting, a spooky setting. This is by no means.
Damn it. It's like, it's like referring to Red Dead as a rooty tooty cowboy shooty.
Forget it. Western sci-fi setting, historical setting, a spooky setting. This is by no means
a bad thing. Can be fantastic to go back to silent Hill one and two. I was able to appreciate
the atmosphere in both games immensely. Surprisingly. So for the first game where
the dated visuals sometimes added to the experience all these years later,
but I was never scared. Just like no modern horror game has scared me either.
My name is Harry Mason keeps like, okay. So to clarify, just immediately get ready for it.
Don't bother with that. When talking about this, like what,
explaining why a horror game is not scary. And then you go, I played them and they didn't scare
me. It's like, I don't care. It's not good enough. That's really not a good enough response.
This is his opinion. Thank you. Thanks guys.
It's like, it's like playing the first bit of shoe and going, oh, I didn't really kill anyone.
It's fucking boring. You know, they're all just fucking code. They were just code bad.
They weren't responding based on.
The game that has scared me the most recently, isn't a horror game at all.
Although it does have some reason to be able to scare you then.
Right? No.
Right. Because that's how it works in film. So it should work in games, right?
Nope. Sorry, fringy. He said no games, scary. Well, no horror games, scary.
That's true. Oh, you're fucked.
It's just an opinion, fringy. What's wrong with you?
Wow. Neckbearded leaders over here. Jesus Christ.
Gatekeeping opinions. Having an opinion on opinions.
The game. Yeah. Seriously, brace yourself for his example of a scary game.
Has scared me the most recently, isn't a horror game at all. Although it does have some unsettling
elements to it, they aren't a core part of the experience. I'm going to show it on the screen
now and I'd like for you to give me a second to explain before you shut off the video.
I hate this part. You go so fast.
So you go so fast here, like you're talking to me from clicking off, but it's weird.
Oh, that fucking instant fucking blue ball. So I'm so flaccid.
This is a part where it threw so many people in the comments section.
They're just like, don't stop. Like what? What's happening?
He's just talking about perma-death, but yeah, of course.
He's going to explain it, but it's so confusing. Like
you have a bunch of people and it's like, what are your favorite horror games?
And he's like, oh, Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Amnesia.
Don't stop scared me. And it's like, okay.
I thought Mopo printed scary.
And this is the thing. You can be scared by literally anything you could play.
Simpsons hit and run and say it's the scariest game you've ever played.
I'd be like, okay, that's your opinion.
I've seen the fucking textures in that game, dude. It's pretty fucking terrifying.
Just before you continue, is he just, is this game going to be able to be compared to against
like games in Minecraft where you can die and I know you can say it on Minecraft.
Well, one of the top comments was, if I've got this correct,
one of Joseph Anderson's top horror games would be Minecraft Hardcore Mode.
Yeah, yeah. And then like, what about like XCOM with Iron Man node on?
Because that would actually be like, you know, well, a lot more violence.
And I like, and well, in games like Don't Start, you reset, you restart the whole game, don't you?
With XCOM, you restart like, well, you have to, well, you have to get new soldiers if they all die.
But you can eventually lose the campaign. But I don't know.
Well, if you spread out your save points enough, it becomes a horror game.
That's when you start to get to the question of, is the fear of progress or the fear of loss
the same as being terrified by an atmosphere? Like when I'm like, oh, Jesus Christ, all these
people just ambushed me and I'm going to lose all my XCOM dudes. No, no, no, no, no, no.
Is that the same as me being like, oh my God, the monster spawned in the room and I don't know
where he is? Was that like, has anyone played The Forest? Because that plays like similarly
mechanics like things like Hunter gathering and there's an enemy threat around your base or
whatever that you've got to keep an eye out for. And that's actually like trying to be a lot more
scary. It reminds me of The Descent, the film. Yeah. And that's the thing. It's like a combo.
Could Pyramid Death work in a horror game? It's like, well, I think Momstrom was good.
So that would be an example. And then you go, can does Pyramid Death make a game horror? And it's
like, I mean, I don't think Rogue Legacy is a horror game, but I've seen some people say that
Fire Emblem is a great horror game. We'll wait for him to sort of make some statements before we
explore it because we want to see what he's going to say. Okay, still here, I'll speak quickly.
Don't Starve has some elements of psychological horror, but they're kept light. You have to manage
your hunger and sanity. If your sanity goes too low, you'll begin to hallucinate. Monsters will
appear and fight you. Your sanity will also drop along with your health if you are caught in total
darkness at night. None of this would be particularly effective, except that Don't Starve has Pyramid
Death. You can construct extra lives for yourself, but they weaken your character by lowering their
maximum health and you need to commit resources to building a new one after each death. These are
substantial enough hurdles that every life is precious. So when you make a mistake and realize
as night begins to fall that you are low on food, health, don't have the materials on hand to make a
light source and have only seconds to solve these problems, you may feel, oh, no, I'm doomed. I'm
dead as you scramble for a way out. Death has an meaning. Okay, but you can restart the game.
I'll just do my best to be devil's advocate. I imagine he would say, yeah,
but this entire set of progress, all of these individual things, this was a whole experience
and now it's gone forever. I don't disagree with the notion that when it's Pyramid Death,
it can be a little bit more terrifying, but it might partly be just that you don't want to get
to that point again. You know, like you don't want to go to the tedium of work. You wipe back.
Absolutely. This is perspective. I understand perspective of like when, you know, you've come
so far and you realize that you're about to die and it's like shit, shit, shit. It's all on this.
Like I'm about to lose everything. I would agree with this point except that it contradicts other
things that he said. There's a counterbalance though, because if, if games started doing this,
then we'd have, you know, John Cerf Ornderson making a video saying horror games don't scare
me because I know that if I die, it's all over and I don't get another chance. I don't get to
remain immersed in my playthrough. I don't get to actually see what would have happened if it
played out that I didn't make this one mistake that led to my death and games would be better
if not only you had some, some option to save state, like let's say you have a typewriter that
you get to put an ink piece in. It's limited so you don't spam it, but it makes you use it as
a resource management sort of thing. And the narrative could be that it's a different piece
of canon that you died in. You get to go back to a time you said, you know, and they know, they know
less valid. So I'm just like, this isn't, this is just, this is all stuff that's been talked about
already to me. Like this is all old news. Like we, we understand the difference in genres. This is
why permadeath is a thing and not permadeath is a thing. It's like two different kinds of things
you can play. It would just be like me saying like, um, I don't like action films because there's no
sense that, um, of dread or something. And you're like, why are you looking for that in an action
film? You're like, well, I don't know. I want it in it. And you're like, um, okay. Again, because I
don't think he mentions Monstrum in this entire video, but I'd love to know if that's what he's
looking for because it's got randomly generating resources. It's got permadeath and it's a horror
game, absolutely. So I wonder if that would, I wonder if he thinks that's a good horror game.
There's a bunch of games that do that and he doesn't mention any of them because
I also think these exist. There are games catered for this taste. Go fetch them.
Yeah. Monstrum, Rogue Legacy, Binding of Isaac,
Enter the Gungeon, the forest, forest.
But those aren't horror games, guys. Checkmate.
Well, I was going to say, not all of them are strictly horror.
By his logic, they are.
By his logic, they are.
That's why Binding of Isaac has some horror themes though. I mean, Binding of Isaac is
about the biblical, well, based on the biblical story. And I mean, that's a pretty terrifying
scenario where you. And now we get into what defines the genre,
which is a conversation me and Alex never like to bring up because it's just like an endless pit.
But the idea that we were talking to a monk about this while he was streaming,
so he's playing Destiny and I was like, imagine Destiny, but you just raise a fog wall three
meters out from where you are. You make everything get washed out and darker. You make creepy sounds
in the distance and the soundtrack is just low violins with a breathy sound.
Like you start to go, hang on, am I playing a horror game? Like what's going on?
And that's that's the kind of thing. So if that was throughout the entire game,
you'd be like, this game is clearly trying to be horror versus Mario, where you apply that for one
mission. And it's like you're in the spooky village mission and you jump through and it's
just spooky enemies. You're like, oh, that's cool. A little cute little spooky level.
Yeah. Now I'm even wondering, could you make the argument? I don't know if I want to say the
spoiler specifically, but I've said that there are points in like Avengers infinity war where
you're supposed to be shocked and kind of worried for the well-being of a character. Is it scary
to think that a character you really like is going to die? Or is it not? Like, is that horror
or is that just being scary? I feel like a 12 year old girl.
That's a whole subject all on its own, which if he was here, I guarantee you the answers would end
up getting us concluding that he should have been a bit more clear at his video because
there's so much to go over. Or he would just block you on Twitter. Oh, well, yeah, that's gonna.
I'm so close to that. If anyone else references my videos, but someone else just brought up in the
chat is very true. Amnesia, Justine. I don't know if any of you've played it. It's like the bonus
piece of content they released with Amnesia once it fully released. I think it's a small story.
It's the, I think the developers made it. I can't remember if it's just a mod they officialized or
not, but it's a small story. It lasts about 40 minutes if you do it correctly, but there's like
three different challenges. There's lots of running around and avoiding enemies and stuff,
but it's permadeath. It's supposed to be a short story compared to the main game,
which is why you're talking about the hard mode, which they just added officially with less like
month or two. See, now that's another thing I want to get his perspective on. Joe, they added
permadeath. Does that make it better now? Cause I hated it. No, it's boring. So I mean, it's not
necessarily a permanent death. You do get saves, but they're very, very few. He must love devil
may cry down to must die mode because that's part of the life. I think well, dead space too.
Has the, um, what's the mode called? Uh, it's, it's like some, if bio's in chat, he'll know it,
but it's like, um, you know, just some name, let's just say fucking dead space, reloaded.
And this is just that you, uh, you get permadeath and that always two saves throughout the entire
game is what you get. No, it wasn't a bioshock. No, bioshock is a brass balls mode would be
permadeath, but you, I think that's, yeah, you get a save per level as in like, you go from
medical facility to the like, like four frolic sort of thing. Um, what we're basically leading
towards is the idea that as once it's permadeath, it's more like, even if it's an action game,
it becomes more scary than a horror game. If it's got permadeath, which is more fear of losing
progress. And again, this'll make it scarier for many players, but it'll also ruin it for many
players who just be like, Oh, I can't be asked to play it because the second I die, I have to do
it all over again. I can't be asked. That's not scary. That's boring. And so I asked him, it's
like, how do you reconcile that with your, like, this is the answer. But I mean, well, I think
we're getting to that. I think he starts talking about those. Yeah. How to, how to fix, uh, horror
games, how to fix the whole self-imposed permadeath. That's something I see a lot of like hardcore
streamers do turn to things scary here. Like wouldn't Nuzlocke sort of be like that?
Yeah, in a way, I guess. Horror Pokemon. Horror Pokemon.
You scramble for a way out. Death has meaning. Unlike almost every horror game out there that
I've played. Oh, here we go. Does this mean that I want every horror game to have permadeath?
Well, yes. Oh, he said yes. He said yes. He said in a way. He said in a way.
I know. I know. You guys are straw bad. There are too many horror games. There are too many horror
games that have mechanics that can instantly fuck you over. And then if you want to restart,
like, you know, four plus hours of progress, some people like that. Like, and I was obviously
there's game modes or there's difficulties in games that let you do that. Like nightmare mode
is typically what it's called or whatever, but I'll say fuck that. I can't do them. Like basically
it would have to be a perfectly designed game where it was never cheap or did something that
was unfair. It would otherwise it would be frustrating as hell. And the feeling of it
being unfair. Just the time as well. Just the time. Like, you know, everyone's got different,
like, you know, free time in there, you know, to play games and shit. Like for certain people,
if it's like, oh, you reset like six hours plus, like, that's like, no, I will not go back to that.
You know, some people, some people in the chat are making a good point. We are just kind of like
talking over what we presume he's going to say, but apparently he feels. Let me do it. Let me do a
disclaimer in the same way that Joseph Anderson would. All the stuff we just said is not related
to him. If it sounded like it was, it wasn't. I would like to be. There we go. Sort it anyway.
But yeah, I wanted to be corrected by whatever. Yeah. But yeah, just just to clarify, the format
that we do this in, we will absolutely think that Joseph Anderson says one thing when he's actually
saying something else once we carry it on. But that's going to happen. And then we will account
for it where we find them. You know, and that should be okay. We'll we'll we'll absolutely
correct the record if you will. So yes, let's continue that I've played. Does this mean that
I want every horror game to have permadeath? Well, yes, in a way, but it's not that easy. Like most
problems that encapsulate entire genres. This is complex. It's why I've always tried to make that
clear when I've criticized horror games in the past for not being scary. So in particular,
it's not a specific failing. It's jumping back. I wish he would rephrase it. It's like,
it's not scary. What about that guy over there that said it's scary? It's like,
oh, well, it's not scary for me. It's like, yeah, he could have said that.
Honora-wide if you can reload after dying. I also fully expect that many people will disagree with
me. But just consider how much more powerful a visually terrifying enemy in a horror game would
be if it also had the ability to inflict tangible consequences upon death. Why is it not a tangible
consequence to go back to a previous save? Yeah, I know. I mean, that's that is the main consequence
of dying. You have to do it again. What do you think checkpoints are for? It's the developers
saying, okay, this is the amount of time we can keep it as a punishment, but that won't
piss players off too much. That's what a checkpoint is. How about they just release like a special
horror edition games console where if you die, the game console just bricks itself. You know,
is that with that with that add enough? I guarantee you at least 1% of the population
likes that sort of shit would really invest in that mechanic in demon souls where the more you
diet actually start stacking against you. So does that mean that world tendency? Yeah,
indeed. So I guess demon souls is more of a horror game than soma.
Oh, okay. We have to stop. I mean, I do think I do. So games do have a spooky atmosphere,
though. I don't think that spooky God, what have you done to me?
How much more frightened would you be if it caused you to truly consider retreat as the best option
making you say, please don't kill me, please don't kill me. How do you play amnesia or not?
Get to that point. It's literally designed so that that's like your main option.
I'm sure you guys are hearing, right? You just said like, imagine you respawn.
I mean, because that's the thing, right? There'll be people who play amnesia and then go,
I don't care if I die, I'll just respawn. And for me, I'm just like, you're not really,
you're not really meeting the game. Are you there? Just like if someone's watching, I have a
for older friend of mine said he's never scared by horror movies, because it's not real. Like he's
seriously a thing that you'd say. Here's kind of my take is I forgot the name of the, the crazy
doctor in Outlast. I like how that's all I'm fucking talking about. This whole stream is just
Outlast. That's like my only frame of reference lately. But like, the crazy doctor in that one,
do you remember his name, Mueller? Traeger. Traeger. So Traeger is one of the only examples
that kind of jump to mind when I think of what we're talking about. It's Yeah, I can die. And
I'll go back and won't be that scary. But encountering him is really terrifying for me
and the way he chases after you and screams like a madman. Like that. I was I was actually going
back and recording some Outlast footage from my evil within two video where I talked about why I
hated the evil within one. And just I had to stop there because I kept getting really uncomfortable
consistently running into Traeger and wondering where he is. Is he around this corner? Fuck,
there he is. And it really just freaked me out. Yeah, it's like, you don't actually care if he if
you're gonna die. It's more just the presence of him. And this is how I felt when I first played
Amnesia, I just didn't like it when any of the monsters were were in the vicinity. Automatically,
I was just like, No, go away. And the game fucks with you. It just plays sound clips from them,
even if they're not there, you'll just be sitting there like, I don't know. I don't know if they're
behind the corner. I mentioned that game Visage, and whether or not you like the game mechanically,
a lot of the audio design is so great that even if you know that an enemy is nearby,
and that's your your cue to like, run the fuck away and get away from them. It's so uncomfortable
that that in and of itself, regardless of any mechanics or consequences, you just your immediate
instinct is I'm just going to run away now. It's complicated. It's all complicated. I don't
like it. You know, in fitness, what the collective point here was like,
to be so scared in that you'd lose all your progress that you in dead space, you're just
like, I just want to run away from this thing. I just want to sprint away. And it's like,
that could offer the scariest experience for somebody, but it could also get someone else
being like, Oh, man, this thing's gonna kill me. I lose all my progress. I'm not playing this again.
And again, I just I wonder, because he's very convinced that this is like a solution,
as opposed to an option. Retreat as the best option making you say, please don't kill me,
please don't kill me, please don't kill me as you run. Because if you do die, you can't simply
respond with nothing lost. And also consider the opposite that sometimes that's not true.
You'd have time lost, right? Yeah. Yeah, that's the main thing. Possible items you collected
and experience you gained. And I don't know, it's contextual for whatever game he's playing.
Yeah, that's the thing. And yeah, he, he's deliberately missing here, because he's about
to make the point about how you can waste ammo. And he's, he's put a little disclaimer in the
bottom left for anybody in chat who feels like they want to be a smart ass. He's saying, Hey,
I'm deliberately missing here. For anybody who won't understand that. And I'll leave a
shitty comment below. Checkmate atheist. I would just be like, you're right, mate. I don't think
anybody's really going to assume you missed like seven shots in a row by deliberately whatever.
Maybe they were, maybe they're fair enough. Anderson, fair enough. I like how defensive
a little bit, a little bit. I would have, what I don't understand about it is I would have had a
clip of you just unloading a clip into one enemy. You'd be like, Oh, you're kind of wasting ammo
there. You know, I think that answers the question just fine. And also consider the opposite that
sometimes if a fight goes so poorly for you that you wasted too many healing items and ammo, dying
becomes an attractive option since you can restart and have a better second take. This is a problem
that's actually in a couple of video games, for example, RPGs where you choose a particular class
and outfit and then you find out about two hours into the game. Oh, if I was that class, I could
have done this. I might restart just because one of the few, one of the few pitfalls of
Deus Ex Human Revolution. If you built stealth once you got to the boss fight, it's like,
certain flashbacks question super quick. Lord Zarkon in the chat said time loss is not a problem.
Well, I disagree. I suppose we have to say it's subjective then I don't understand how you could
possibly that really is. Well, I just just went on about like, you know, the six hours of me would
be like, you know, half a day's well, almost a full day's shift in work. You know, that's like,
that's not something that I could just throw away. Also, he's arguing for total time loss versus a
select amount of time loss. So it's just where you draw the line then. Yeah, how much time is too
much time. And again, that's what I was trying to say about how, how devs create checkpoints.
They're trying to find that balance. Because it's it is an actual thing. And it is absolutely
subjective. For me, if I get 20 minutes removed, I might go Yeah, I'll give it a shot again. 20
minutes is fine. And some other guy could be like 20 minutes fuck off. I'm gonna go play Mario.
And again, so just said you're like, Oh, this is so flim flammy. There's nothing I can work with.
You may even get angry at the monster when it takes too long to kill you. So you can see
the reload screen. Yeah, such a bizarre point. It's not gonna happen.
It's ready option menu. They mostly have a load game.
But he goes as far as say, like, you know, your your waste resources, therefore death becomes
a good option, because you'll get reset on those resources, which is like, yeah, that happens in
games. I wouldn't disagree with that. He would be happier if they added like suicide button for
those like rare situations where you just want to get it over with. But then to argue, it's like,
oh, but it's so fucking annoying, especially when you like you want to die that the the
enemies take too long to kill you. It's like, what mode you play God, with three necromorphs take this
long to kill you? That's another thing. We've kind of gone over already. But I just wonder, it's like,
no, you know, the dead space has like harder difficulties. Like, what do you do you consider
a different experience to be on easy versus the hardest? I'm assuming you do.
For example, the outlasts hardest difficulty is a permanent death isn't not.
I'm asking this sort of to chase, I guess. Yeah, there's I think there's a lunatic
mode where you have to do it all in one shot. So yeah.
Does that I would definitely argue that that may Yeah, it makes it way fucking more terrifying
because there are a few moments in that game where you can just get one shot or cornered.
And maybe maybe he'd be like, no, you need more changes to make that work.
I'm not really for or against Joseph Anderson. In this case, like I understand where he's coming
from. But I understand why you guys are sort of picking apart his points. Because it's,
it's all kind of like you said, it's all sort of relative and his personal opinion,
which yes, everyone in chat is saying, did you even read the title? It says why horror games
don't scare me. Yes, we get that. But we're talking about buying the same level of scrutiny.
If I was to come into discord one day and say, Hey, guys,
horror games don't scare me. Because when I die, I just get resurrected. And then the rest of them
the rest of them don't just go, Okay, that's cool. What do you mean by that? And then they ask me
questions and I don't go. It's just like, stop. It's just a conversation. It's okay. Nobody,
nobody's dying. Mahler, have you ever considered having one of your very vocal objectors and chat
just like, come on discord and join the call and kind of like, give his stance and just kind of
have a debate about it? I mean, it'd be great if we got someone with not only a good mic,
but great arguments, but I feel like that's inviting potential. Yeah, that's, that's the
thing. I feel like if we did invite someone that's like, doesn't do that in the chat,
if someone was constantly complaining in the chat, and then we got them in the call,
it would probably be very revealing. Also, I would love to have Joseph Anderson on the stream. But
there's, I don't think there's any way he would ever know. No, no. I'm pretty sure he knows about
me. I doubt he's a fan considering my Soma series. I can speak about myself. Like whenever I'm on,
in my videos, I'm intellectual and I have a lot of very educated research points. But as soon as
you get me in a live stream, you realize how fucking retarded I actually am. Like that kind
of ruins the whole image of like, credible, professional critic. Anyway, here is that.
Of course, you can't slap permadeath onto a game, step back and then consider it a job well done as
you pat yourself on the back. The only reason it works in Don't Starve is because each playthrough
is different. Each attempt is a challenge to live as long as possible, and you learn and then try
again with each reach. It's a guarantee of death in Don't Starve, right? Don't Starve will always
end with a death. I think so. It might be a mechanic, like an item that gives you a saving
throw, but otherwise, yeah. That's absolutely an argument that someone could make for why they
never want to play this and they can't get a missed in it because there's no victory.
You know what I'd be like, fair enough. There are certain things that you wouldn't be able to do
in horror games if they did permadeath though. Let's get real. Well, Monstrum still counters this.
Monstrum has randomly generating enemies and resources, and it's a quick horror game. So I'm
still, I want to know if that's what he would be like. You know what? This is the perfect game.
This is it. They did it. I don't think he's played it. Yeah, it's a kind of bizarre hill to die on for
fucking Don't Starve together or whatever. It's such a strange example, and I feel like it's because
he hasn't played enough horror games. And I'm not saying this condescendingly. I mean, he hasn't
actually gone out and searched for the game he's describing. You know, he's like, I wish, it'd be
like me being like, I wished it was like a war simulator that like was authentic and did it like
World War II and had a bunch of like, you could fight in the air and fight with people. But like,
Call of Duty is so goofy. And like, I just can't believe it. And then you got like, Medal of Honor,
which just doesn't work for me. I wish there was one out there and people are like,
and you're like, why don't you play Battlefield? And you go, what's Battlefield? And you're like, oh man.
But that's what it feels like. I just want to reconcile Monstrum. I think that's my biggest
thing. Because there's probably other ones that I don't know about. But I do know about that one,
at least. Oh, actually, this one. What about like a game like Eve, where like, you're gonna lose like
real world value money in your ships being destroyed? What does that do for him? That's
gonna be the biggest horror game. A game where you strap yourself into like a chair that stabs you
when you get stabbed in a game. I bet there's real money to be had there, honestly. There could be a
Twitch series, couldn't there? Oh yeah, you would get so many. I think they have that, but on the
scale of pads that electrocute you or something, right? There's probably something that exists
like that already. Well, I've seen retards like put dog collars on their necks and like,
give themselves shocks and all that. In that case, it has to be. Someone said if you played
observer, you played Avenue L. Does that have any relevance? It's quite unsettling. What's the
respawn mechanic like in that? It just takes you back like a tense, like a minute or two into the
game. There's segments in it where like, kind of like a toned down or like a more stripped down
version of Amnesia or whatever, where there's enemies walking around like a strict pattern,
and you just gotta like duck and cover behind like chess high walls or whatever. But you just
come back or is there a narrative? If you die, yeah, yeah. It's just really, it has got a lot
of really good attention in it and I love the atmosphere. It's dripping in it. Also,
Mahler, I want to say, would you like me to read donations since I'm kind of the chat boy right
now? Oh, I usually with the FAP will. So like at the end of this video, I'll read them all in one.
Okay. Because I'll just say really quickly, Sal King donated in 1999 and said, can't stay
for the climax of the EFAP, but so happy to finally catch one live. Love listening while I work. And
I'll suck as many danguses as I have to be to, as I have to, to be on one. Oh, I don't know if we
have a dangus requirement to get on to. I mean, how many did you have to suck for any to get on you?
I don't think I had to suck any. Not even a single dangus. So yeah, I'm not sure who's been
spreading these lies. I reckon it's probably. I lost count. I was, I was wondering if you were
going to jump in Chase with like, what? You didn't have to do any. What can I say? It's
just a life pattern. Even here, however, having to start over can carry too harsh of a punishment
when you've been playing for long enough and can cause you to give up. Transplanting the system
onto a linear story game wouldn't work. Other changes would have to be made to God, that music
choice with the fuck. He pretty much just said what we've, we've gone over the whole, like,
what he's just described will be an immersive to lots of people. And he said, and you can't just
plonk it onto a game. So it might not even work. Let's see how he, because to me, I'm like, well,
then that's it. Then we've just described that there are differences in genre. You could choose
whichever one you like, but I'll see. I'll see how he, how he drastic transformation into a
roguelike is an obvious one. Randomized areas, monsters, traps, and even pieces of a story would
work well in a horror game, making you constantly uncomfortable and never going through the motions
brings with it a lot of what horror needs to be successful, in my opinion. Throw in some subtle
ways of messing with you, sort of like what Eternal Darkness did on the GameCube, and you may have the
right recipe for a horrific game with permadeath steaks that won't be frustrating. Oh, maybe.
I mean, I already consider Amnesia to basically be fucking peak horror, so I'm good. Uh, Jenna
Hart said a boring film is a horror film, because every time you fall asleep, you have to restart,
lol. He said, uh, he said for me and in my opinion, so, uh, you know, there's not much
to work with here. He just said he would be like me saying, um, the way to fix, uh, FPS is to
literally just add a God that shoots lightning every once in a while. And then I go, it could
make it work better. Just my opinion. And so you guys are like, okay, then. Yeah, sure.
Oh, we can't really deal with that. Fuck right off, then.
That's his opinion. We gotta respect it. Yeah. Okay.
Until Dawn on the PlayStation 4 shows that another way is possible, because it's the only
modern horror game that has made me uncomfortable through its mechanics.
In case you're unfamiliar, until Dawn presents itself as a typical slasher horror movie that-
I don't know what to say here. I didn't find it very scary at all.
I could not find until Dawn's scary. See, I can concede the point of like,
you know, the game from the get go tells you like your choices matter and stuff.
It tells you, you know, like, knowing that your characters in any given moment can just
die immediately. And then it'll change something about the story. You know,
even if you like the character, I can understand. How could you like any of these characters?
Not only that, but like, I was convinced that I'm not even sure the game was trying to be horror.
I thought it was kind of trying to be kind of campy.
Oh, well, do you remember when I played over yours with, um,
yeah, we, we could, we laugh at a load.
I remember. I remember how the character Jessica got killed. Like, she just like,
I just chose her to go down the safe path.
I remember it one for once. So you were the, you were the boyfriend and you were,
your choice was to go down like a slippery sort of slope thing that said fast.
Or you could go down the stairs, which is safe. Yeah.
You chose safe and it caused the character to die. And it's the most.
Well, fuck that.
So when they say your choices matter, they write in that your choices will lead to people dying,
but you'll have no fucking part in it. They'll just be like, oh, I guess I choose.
It's like, choose this side of the coin or this side of the coin.
You go that way.
It's basically that you're mostly not going to know.
And yeah, hilarious dialogue. Someone just said, yeah, the dialogue is fucking
stupid.
Also, I mean, it didn't take long for me to figure out who the main characters were
and they were going to last till the end. The main characters were
action man and the action guy. Yeah.
I thought I thought the technology just to make like the deaths gory and then some of
those special effects in that game was pretty all right.
But I don't really have much to say about it in terms of a horror game.
I was like, it was more just like an interactive heavy rain-esque movie.
It was a bit of fun just to see what happens. But like, you know, Alex started to actively.
This is the best story. He decided about halfway three wanted to kill all the characters.
There's a sequence. There's a sequence with the boyfriend and girlfriend.
Genocide route.
The girl is like putting her hand down. She's like, save me.
And then you can choose to save yourself or here. And I was just like, fuck it.
I'll save myself. Screw her.
And he jumps. And then the game offers it to you again.
And Alex is like, no, absolutely save myself.
The irony is when I played the game, I chose to save her, which kills you.
That's what happens. You die and then she survives.
But if you choose to save yourself, you both live.
Yeah, exactly.
And so Alex inadvertently saved more than I did by trying to kill them.
It's bizarre.
And so, yeah, I would say like you cannot ignore how stupid the choice system is
until going for the horror aspect. That is the interaction.
But you know, it vibrates on your leg. I kept resting the control of my leg.
It had those weird like six axes motion sense a bit with the controller, didn't it?
Someone says it until the ones like telltale. It's like, yes.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It was just as cheesy.
Well, we'll eat in and campy as fuck.
Tilled on on the PlayStation 4 shows that another way is possible because it's the
only modern horror game that has made me uncomfortable through its mechanics.
In case you're unfamiliar, until Dawn presents itself as a typical slasher horror movie that
you control different characters in throughout its runtime.
You make decisions that cause changes in the story.
And sometimes these can result in death permanently.
These dumb teenagers do not come back after.
Other than if you restart the game and then they wouldn't die because it would
be a different fucking timeline just like every other game.
How is that different? Explain to me.
You're like, oh, well, that's a different game save.
It's like, yeah, but that's exactly the same level of immersion.
You can be like, well, they could be alive.
All I need to do is go back to the main menu.
For him, it seems to be that it's all in one sitting.
You can choose chapters as well, can't you?
In Until Dawn.
I think you can.
Well, basically, you can go back and make changes that will
bring them back or kill characters. It's your choice.
Afterwards.
Please do not think I am parading Until Dawn around is a wildly successful horror game
because it has huge problems.
But it's undeniable that knowing characters can die
adds a great amount of tension whenever they're in danger.
But only if you empathize and care about them, which I've found impossible.
Yeah, I was on board with Alex laughing at their deaths.
Like what?
There's a great highlight on one of the videos where a guy's face gets bashed in
and Alex just bursts out laughing.
And it's because of the toad.
Alex was convinced that this was like a funny game, not a horror game.
Because like, like slasher horror films, like we call them horror.
But like, most of the time, like the deaths are just like hilarious.
And just like, you're just waiting for the next annoying,
like, well, most of the time with the teenagers, like, you know,
just like swear, like, if you're like watching a Rob Zombie film,
or you're just like, oh, with these characters, just shut the fuck up.
And then they get their heads blown up.
Are they supposed to be teenagers?
Because they all look like they're fucking.
Oh, no, I just mean, like in like slasher horror films,
like, you know, like Halloween or these are like in their 20s or whatever, of course.
But yeah, the principal still is the same.
They're annoying as fuck.
And you're just waiting for them to die.
And then when they do, you're just like, oh, fucking Ray.
Yeah, you're rooting for Jason at that point.
Yeah, you get a fist bump in the air.
You're like, fuck, yes.
And there are there are, I would argue that it's definitive.
There are characters that are so fucking annoying and until dawn,
like the one of the bratty girls.
There's a dumb blonde and a bratty Asian girl.
And they're the most like vapid characters.
You're just like, oh, the one is the absolute worst.
Because even when you like save her, protect her.
Yeah, she lasts really long no matter what.
I think most people are really happy when she does get me wrong.
I don't like that.
I do enjoy.
I did enjoy playing it, but it was not like it.
I was not.
There's no tension or scary.
There was no spooks.
I'm sorry, Joseph.
But you know, it's not really quickly.
Cinema since since to play devil devil's advocate here when a character
in until dawn dies, you can continue your play through in games
where you cannot continue your play through without a resurrection.
It's impossible for a death to have lasting impact unless you stop.
Right.
But I mean, like, what can you do about that other than restart
the whole game from scratch?
Like you need to be able to play the game.
You know, you need to be able to when you when you change that mechanic.
For me, you're changing the sub genre.
And so you can choose to play that if you want.
If it gets you more immersed, go find those games.
You're not arguing why this game isn't as scary.
You're arguing why it's a different genre.
I know you might be like, well, he's arguing why it's less scary for him.
I'm like, yeah, that's fine.
But it's not a fault of the game or a fault of the genre.
It's literally something that you don't connect with.
Like we've been arguing this the whole time.
It's just like me saying, you know, mystery doesn't work for me
because there's always a twist.
Like, oh, I mean, I'm bored.
Can we watch anime?
Especially the first time when all you know is that decisions matter
and you're not aware of the specific places a character can meet their end,
which is a way that's precisely what pulls me out of the game
where I have no impact on how things go other than flipping coins every time.
That shit bothered me because I actually took it seriously my first time around.
I was like, oh, cool.
This is like,
I remember the start of it where like then one of the characters
have a BB gun or something like that and like has the option to shoot or not.
Like you throw a snowball at a bird or something.
Like, yeah, yeah.
It gives you the option to kill an innocent animal or whatever.
And then you killed it.
Also, fuck generic.
She order says there are lots of actual games where you can make choices
that kill off characters.
Suikoden, Chrono Trigger, Quest for Goya, Resident Evil,
all of them closer to horror than until dawn.
And that's a really good point because the bad ending of Chrono Trigger,
I don't know if you ever played Chrono Trigger,
but it's fucking it's an ingenious RPG.
When the whole point of the game is to stop this looming evil creature
who's like burrowed in in the core of the earth to stop him from destroying the earth.
And if you lose in the final battle against him,
it actually plays out as one of the canon endings.
And it's horrifying because a big message pops up.
You hear the monster screech at you and then it says,
but the future refused to change.
And it's this heavy like you were not enough.
And it's like really, really heavy,
especially when I was fucking six years old and I played it.
I was like, Oh my God, this is on my shoulders.
You're pathetic.
Yeah, well, this is the thing.
I feel like there's a great conversation in this video
that doesn't make it there because there's so few examples and so little time.
So we're just like, Oh, okay.
Bye bye.
Yeah, sure.
All you know is that decisions matter and you're not aware of the specific places
a character can meet their end,
which is a way until dawn can reinforce the idea that death can become meaningless.
When you look up after you're done and find out that the tension in many
scenes was faked because characters can't die there.
Something similar could be done in other.
That would be like movies, right?
Which we haven't really heard him account for.
Like, how does he deal with that?
What is this?
What is commentary on that is, I wonder?
Which is weird because his point is that the films do scare him,
but that games don't.
So he needs to spend more time on that.
And he accidentally just alluded to the fact that
until dawn is more of a movie than a game.
By the way, it's interesting that it keeps using footage from the evil within
because that is one of the worst horror games.
I can tell you that if there was anything close to horror from the evil with it,
it was within the first like 10 minutes.
And if that because that's that's it, like, does so many of the things.
I mean, maybe it's to support his point.
Of course, I'm like half paying attention at this point.
I'm just enjoying your answer.
But like in the evil within, every time you die and every boss has a one hit
kill mechanic, every time you die, you have to go all the way back to the start of a fight.
Like, that is such a fucking guy.
I just I don't even have a point.
I just want to say, fuck the evil within them.
I'm on your team.
Even with it took so damn long to complete as well.
And I did a video on it.
If any of you watch it, just saying it's a little plug right there.
Chase face on YouTube.
Search for the evil within.
I wanted to ask everyone has has anyone here played deadly premonition?
I have that game only for a little bit.
Only for all right.
Because I really wanted to know what he thinks about that game
because that game has all the cliches and tropes to try and be a horror game.
But it's so it's played out so cheesily bad.
It's hilarious.
It's like completely unintentional.
Well, supposedly, I sometimes doubt it and question if it was intentionally bad.
But it's like a fun experience to watch.
And I would love to see what he thinks about that as a horror game.
Me too.
Also, there was somebody coming who was I was talking to somebody came up with an example of
a horror game where you can't die, but is typically known as being scary.
Is there any anybody you can?
It was a game I had prepared thinking about it.
But I completely forgotten now.
I mean, what I can argue is literally the opening 40 minutes of amnesia.
I wonder how Joseph Anderson felt about that because you can't die, right?
So there's no death.
But there's no I think
getting off the topic of hermit death and dying and checkpoints in general,
I think that some of the best horror games I've ever played are ones where
the AI is really good and it makes you feel like you're not just fighting against something
that is a computer program, but actually living and breathing.
For example, probably not like the perfect example, but Resident Evil 3.
Nemesis stalks you throughout that entire game.
And he's so tenacious, and he's so cunning.
And he finds these opportunities where he just completely catches you off guard that
it feels like the way that they've scripted him, like he actually wants to kill you.
And he actually has a lot on the line to the hunt you down.
And something about just that tenacity made it so terrifying for me,
knowing that he would try to get me no matter what.
Like nothing would slow him down.
Is it true you couldn't die in PT?
Yeah, I guess.
That would be an example for Joseph to account for.
I wonder what he thinks.
Yeah, I guess the kind of for that is just that it wasn't a finished product, I guess.
But yeah, it was like a teaser when it so.
Yeah, it wasn't a long.
Well, this is kind of what I said about the opening to amnesia and
just a horror game scary up till he dies.
Well, that's yeah, that's exactly what I was.
Apparently, you can't die in PT.
Oh, yeah.
Because like, see, for me, it's the whole idea of what is leading up to your death.
Like, it's okay, whether you die or not.
I'm more concerned about whether the creature itself is what scares me
instead of just the looming threat of the checkpoint waiting for me.
Well, because yeah, because it's interesting what you said about like Nemesis.
But in amnesia, they made efforts to say you're like miles ahead of the monster.
You're obviously supposed to be running away.
The soundtrack was most supposed to make you feel like he was right on your heels
because then they're able to rubber band it really easily as in like,
they'll push the monster closer and closer.
But then if you start slowing down or fuck up, they might slow him down a bit to make sure
they want you to escape.
They do not want you to die.
They want you to escape and be scared because that's like the primary experience.
A lot of it is about framing.
For example, since Dead Space has been so fucking prominent in this video,
in that very first part where they're like, run Isaac and you have to run to the elevator.
They have it scripted.
I'm pretty sure intentionally so that right when you run to the elevator,
it takes just a moment too long to open.
And then one of the necromorphs is like right on your ass and you're supposed to go
and just like run in and feel that sort of like icky icky get off.
Of course, you know, the first time that you play it and when it opens the doors up,
and then you're like, oh, he's got me and then the door slashes,
gotten caught in a little baby switch.
Yeah, well, we'll try and get back on the tracks of what Joseph's talking about.
Welcome back to your done and find out that attention in many scenes was faked
because characters can't die there.
What are you talking about?
Something similar could be done in other games without resorting to permadeath
leading to a game over.
Imagine a Yoshi's Island style relay of characters along for the spooky ride.
And if you die, then that's one dead from the roster.
And you move on to the next one with the other like inside or little nightmares.
Death could result in it skipped for me, but I was going to say,
yeah, do you play a game with like a team of four?
And then if you die as one, you move to the next.
Like, I try it, but I don't think that's a solution, really.
Yeah, because for me, it would be like, well, surely if like,
if you're particularly shit, the game, then you're not gonna have enough time
to establish the character to like empathize and like,
and like, you know, like want them to live.
If they're literally just like, oh, hi, I'm your childhood friend.
And they're dead.
It's like, oh, so long.
Tension, you know, it's gone.
Just to clarify, he wasn't talking about Yoshi's Island.
He was saying a Yoshi's style, like relay where it's like multiple characters.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, no, I thought that's it.
When he said, I was like, what?
And I'm not gonna talk about like, I'm not gonna take Mario characters.
Like, seriously, you know, that's not their purpose.
Just to bring it back to you guys.
I was correcting chat because some people were like, really?
Yoshi's Island.
Oh, he did use don't start.
You have just a random dude in that universe.
That's the thing.
Then the random dude goes, I didn't like that game because I knew that if I died,
I would just end up being one of the team.
And if I died as them, it'd be one of the other team.
It was only really scary when I got down to the last dude.
What do you do for that guy?
You know what I mean?
Like, I'm just saying this is different.
It's not.
It's kind of like, there's no never be a perfect solution.
No, I don't think they will be just like,
you have to put all of your eggs in the basket of
making sure that up until the moment of dying,
it is the most pantheringly terrifying thing.
To bring it back.
Just thing I said earlier, there was a friend of mine who just didn't get scared by horror films,
but he watched Paranormal Activity and he came out of it and he was like,
that was a little bit scary.
That was probably the most scared I've ever been.
I wasn't really scared, but it was the closest I've been to getting there.
And to me, I'm just like, it's whatever you personally require to bring that wall down
between you and the content.
This is why I said at the end of my Outlast series,
like I wouldn't blame anybody for finding it the scariest thing in their entire lives.
I wouldn't blame, because I think all the elements are there.
It's so subjective.
Jenna Hart said, that's Yoshi's story, not Yoshi's Island.
That's Yoshi's story, not Yoshi's Island.
God, I hate this guy more.
You said Yoshi's story twice.
Yeah, I tried to correct it, I thought.
No, you got to take the opportunity to rip it.
The rage is making me warm.
I was trying to help you, Jen, I'm sorry.
No, the second one is Yoshi's Island, that's the second choice.
The rage is making me florm.
Move on to the next one with the other one gone forever.
Or in a game like Inside or Little Nightmares,
death could result in being moved to a different line of progression for a worse ending,
and then an even worse one after that if you die again.
But see, the problem becomes right.
So we've just been arguing about how when you die in like,
you end up in a different arguably timeline,
arguably dimension is whatever you can put in your head cannon.
And if he says, nah, what it is is actually a reset.
Like, let's be honest, you could be like,
well, what you've just said, even if that's in the narrative,
if they say on a big piece of text,
and so Jimmy was taken to a different universe in which he did not die,
be like, yeah, that's just bullshit.
It's actually the mechanic of just, I'm just alive.
Death doesn't mean anything.
Here's a quick question.
Has anyone played True Crime Streets of LA or New York?
I played it briefly.
Right. So at least in True Crime Streets of LA, from what I remember,
there were parts of the story where,
depending on the outcome of that particular moment,
the story would divert like in a timeline.
Later on, when you complete the game,
you could go back and see the actual timeline,
and then go back to those options and choose the different option.
Most of the time, it would be like if you got defeated by the boss,
the boss would run away.
Instead of like, you know, you try and start again and do it.
It wasn't a horror, but like, those kind of like,
alternate timelines that like, it's a lot.
Well, not that it can't be done, but it is a shit ton of effort,
especially to make it all concise and still like have investment in it.
Without like, because if you, again, if it goes back to,
if you just kill off all the interesting characters,
it quite loses the interest and the attention from it.
Again, this is in my opinion, you know, but yeah.
Well, this is, this is why as a subject, I'm just like,
you're going to have to get into some serious mechanical discussions
before you can say anything that's with more than just saying,
well, if you're not scared by it, that's, that's you, man.
Everyone else gets scared by it.
Oh, some people get scared.
Not a detailed or a little prick like you, mauler.
But nobody wants to have that discussion, just crap.
If someone just goes, well, I got scared by it.
I guess you didn't.
Well, it just reminds me of the conversations about like the last Jedi.
Well, I liked it.
It's like, oh,
Joseph Anderson put this video up for a reason.
It wasn't just to say, our games don't scare me.
It's like, I know people would be like, well, he's explaining why.
And I'm just saying that, yeah, but how does he,
he's not accounted for so many little things that you can sort of poke holes in here.
He's not qualifying enough enough for you, you're saying?
I mean, I'm surprised he's qualifying enough for anybody.
I like how everyone in chat is just commenting about how
unfitting the Undertale music is.
It's up to him, it's fine.
The idea here is that you can still continue and finish the game if you
get grabbed by the Ghoulies, but that you really, really don't want to.
The alternative is that horror games require more suspension of
disbelief on the player's part and that you should meet them more than halfway.
And that's not necessarily true.
More suspension, disbelief, because you could argue like, you know,
like League of Legends, for example, like to get into it,
you'd be like, you can have to, if, if one was to try and get into it,
as if you were actually on the battlefield,
there's a lot of things you'd have to ignore to be able to cut right into that.
I wouldn't necessarily say horror games have the biggest amount of required
suspension of disbelief, but you know, I guess that's subjective too.
Master Clockwork said, come on, guys, you're almost there.
You should meet them more than halfway in order to be scared.
I reject this idea because I don't have to do that in order to appreciate.
Oh, sorry.
What's he rejecting?
The idea that you have to just play it again.
The idea is that you can still continue and finish the game if you get grabbed by the
Gooleys, but that you really, really don't want to.
The alternative is that horror games require more suspension of
disbelief on the player's part and that you should meet them more than halfway
in order to be scared.
I reject this idea because I don't have to do that in order to appreciate scary movies.
And that I...
Yeah, but that's you, buddy.
Yeah, that's he knows that's not a good argument, right?
Because I could just say the reverse.
It'd be like, Joseph, horror games, films don't scare me.
And for all the reasons we mentioned before, I know that that's just a set.
I know that they're just actors.
I know that this isn't actually real.
I know that these people, Robert Downey Jr. is still alive, so he can't die in this.
And then he's like, okay, you have to have some suspension of disbelief.
And I'd be like, I don't want to play horror games.
And you know, you could be like, it doesn't bother you.
The fact that horror games are literally code.
I'd be like, no.
It gets kind of complicated, doesn't it?
Because there really is no perfect solution.
And obviously, we're not saying there's a perfect solution.
But it's going to be impossible to please everyone.
That's the point of genres and sub genres.
You go and find the thing that works best for you.
Yeah.
And what he's described exists.
He can go get it.
Bean just said, can you guys just watch anime?
See, finally someone with some sense comes in.
Jesus.
Never have to adopt this mindset in order to be impressed by other genres in games.
If something in a game is visually stunning or a boss fight hits the right level of challenge
and engagement, the game is responsible for getting me there without me having to
pretend to be along for the ride.
I don't want-
I can say the same about movies or books.
I can't get into a book because it's just fucking paper and pen.
What the fuck's this?
Also, Jenna Hart said it's also a thing that he is saying that he'd want to know every mechanic
of how a game works before playing it.
Isn't the element of the unknown most of the fear?
Yeah, I would say so.
Is that something he says?
Like, I'm not saying it's not.
I'm just verification.
I think she's talking about him.
It's also a thing that he-
Is he saying he'd want to know every mechanic of how a game works before playing it?
You mean like he wouldn't want to-
I mean, I'm guessing he's saying he would jump into amnesia
hoping that it's going to have the mechanics he wants.
And then he's like, oh man, it doesn't, you know?
I doubt he wants to know all the mechanics of a horror game before playing it.
That's the thing as well.
He's clearly not going to do it, I don't think, like in the next three minutes.
He's not even talking about or coming for like VR horror either.
Yeah, like what's his take on VR horror?
Well, that's actually the whole thing is putting you literally in front of the screen.
Well, you know what I'm getting at.
Go ahead, sorry.
That's a really good point.
I was done.
So I was going to say, I could have made this video.
Why I don't read books.
And then I go, because books are just weirds,
and there's no actual tangible information.
As in when you watch a movie in a game, you get a landscape,
you get a characters look, it's only described in a book.
And so blah, blah, blah.
Then someone makes a video saying like, you know, books are the only thing that work for me,
because they tell me they describe stuff.
So I get to imagine a world and I get to live in my head.
But this amazing mystical, like everything is for me.
But when you lock something down, like Game of Thrones into an actual series,
everything's definitive and everything's answered.
And this is how it looks.
There's no, you don't get to imagine it anymore.
And it takes away everything from it.
And it's like, you can make both of those videos.
And on the topic of like VR being, you know,
more engaging and immersive than normal horror games.
That's true because like Dreadhalls, for example,
is a game that's like creepy enough, but not terribly creepy.
But as soon as you play that in VR becomes so much more intimate and personal.
It's no longer just me navigating around and keeping my guy from dying.
Now it's like, they're in my face.
They're screaming in my ears.
Like it's a whole different experience.
Well, they said, because he's never played VR horror,
you want him to comment on something he doesn't have experience in.
And be like, so then he can't be definitive.
He's saying why horror games don't scare me.
And he hasn't even played all of the horror games.
So all of the subgenres.
This is another problem with this video.
He's pretty, he's playing it as if he's actually gone through
all of his options, which he hasn't.
Yeah, when he's like reference, like, well, like eight games with footage.
I've thought about making like a more all encompassing video
on like horror games and the horror genre.
But the problem is like, I haven't played the, you know,
Penumbra series of games.
There's a lot of horror.
Like, I honestly haven't played most of the Silent Hill games.
So I feel like I would just be kind of speaking from a place of ignorance
if I did try to be a voice of authority on that.
So that's one thing that's kind of weakening his argument a little bit.
Yeah, it happens.
And that's, that's kind of what we're concluding here.
It's like, we want to see what he says after he does X, Y, and Z.
Yeah, if he, if he was clearly, if he conveyed a lot more
competence and sort of expertise in all the different kinds of horror games
and gave a lot of different examples and showed a lot of different instances,
I feel like he would do a much better job of convincing me personally,
but he's really just sticking with like.
So we have to clarify every statement.
That's how this works.
Someone said you have to comment and you have to play everything in a genre
to comment on it.
No, it's when you make a comment that counter something that already exists.
It's when it's like, it fucking helps.
It does help to play all of the genre before you say a genre is X.
Which is again, I wouldn't bother.
There's no much point.
It's like, what is in every horror game?
You go, uh, I don't know.
Atmosphere.
It's like, nope.
No.
And it's like, no, not every horror game has that.
Plenty of horror games.
That's in the cinema since, since said, well, this has been fun,
but I'm off to drink until I wake up on the floor of the McDonald's bathroom.
I'll let you decide whether or not I'm joking.
All right.
See you around.
That's real horror there.
That's a horror.
You're like, oh, there's always the threat of danger in every horror game.
You go, nope.
There's games that have been made that have absolutely no intention to put you as a threat
just to present ideas to you that are spooky.
Something like that.
Genre is very, very broad.
There's so many things you can do within every genre.
And that's because genre itself is only supposed to just be an identifier.
Basically, if I'm going to describe a game to you, I can start with genre.
So it puts you in a mindset of like, oh, I can expect some things and then I get more specific.
Like these are the mechanics and that's the sub genre and so on.
So somebody, uh, without warning, this guy is desperately trying to be like super bunny
hop that ends up being I hate everything.
Oh, yeah, I like that.
That's a star.
That's a burn.
This video is called why video games don't scare me, not why video games aren't scary.
He's not being definitive on purpose.
Yes, he is.
He just said solutions for horror games.
And what was the line earlier that, um, game games have the problem
because he doesn't have to come as far for immersion like he does with with movies.
Yeah.
And it's like that.
That's kind of what makes it complicated.
He starts off subjective why they're not why they don't scare me,
but then he kind of goes into the objective and talks about the genre just like, you know,
objectively.
And this is side by side with the fact that he's highlighting options that he may not have
experimented with with games that exist.
Monstrum would be the one thing I want him to play desperately just to get his perspective
on it and to explain to me why Monstrum doesn't satisfy his requirements.
Because it does everything he's said would work for him in this.
You know, after after this video, every single good horror game that comes up,
you're going to link him to it and be like, Oh, what?
Does this fucking scare you?
Tough guy.
I wasn't too good for this one.
Let's go on to now.
This one video horror games to give me the option.
And again, I think he'd be fine.
If I would have cut this video right down, you could even make it like a minute.
And all you need to say was, um, I really don't get immersed into horror games
because it always pulls me out whenever I die.
And I know that's not a thing many people experience themselves.
It doesn't bother them at all.
Really bothers me.
That's it.
And you could be like, well, that's boring.
And I'd be like, exactly.
So when you actually start adding references,
that's where you can start actually comparing and ripping them apart.
If I tell you, I don't like Black Panther that you go.
Yeah, that's fine.
But then if I tell you because Sonic the Hedgehog is in it, you'll be like,
that's not true.
And then I go, that's my opinion.
You're like, that's not true.
It's a jumping off point.
If this was only his opinion, the video would be extremely fucking short.
Yeah.
To roleplay as someone who's scared.
I want to have no choice but to be scared because that's what terror really is.
Oh my god.
That's what real terror is.
See, I actually stopped before this and I just, I just texted you and I said,
yeah, okay, I think I get the idea.
Like, shortly after the halfway point, I was like, I think I know where this is going.
There's real terror.
To have no choice but to be scared because that's what terror really is.
It comes at you with surprising potency, hits you with a jolt and leaves you both hot.
That's not true.
Stop using the evil within footage when you're praising scary.
That's so triggered right now.
And with his goofy music too, it's just such a jumbled like, what's your message?
You should play the fucking tem shop though.
Blam, blam, blam, blam, blam, blam, blam.
Just to see the fucking mission.
Well Beethoven's fifth, just throw that in there.
Uh, but yeah, the, uh, just the idea that he just said it should jolt you,
nope, nope, nope.
There's no should in horror, not a thing.
There's no should in any genre really.
Cause you can always stretch and you can always do a little thing here, do a tweak here.
This is what terror should do.
It's like, you know what terror should do?
Terrify you.
And if someone says, yeah, Outlast terrified me, but Amnesia didn't, uh,
Mario terrifies me, but Sonic doesn't.
I just be like,
Have you, have any of you guys played Visage?
It's fairly new.
It's only like a month or two old.
I have not.
It's, it's kind of PTS coming.
Obviously it's going to drop hills because you're in an abandoned house and there's
like spooky ghosts, like kind of creeping up on you invisibly.
But I definitely recommend you guys watch a playthrough of it,
like including everyone in the chat, watch someone else play it, play it yourself.
It actually does a lot really, really well.
I'll get into that more videos over, but that currently that's like my number one horror game.
I actually want to make a video on it.
Just commending a lot of mechanics to it because it's so,
it keeps you on your fucking toes.
It's really good.
The cause to be scared is real terror.
Yes.
Have no choice but to be scared because that's what terror really is.
It comes at you with surprising potency,
hits you with a jolt and leaves you both hot and cold at the same time.
Just like the jump scare.
That's about to appear at the end of the sentence.
Just kidding.
I wouldn't do that to you.
I know.
Right.
Do you know why he's accurate saying hot and cold there?
Because if he did have a jump scare, it would have been confusing
because of the stupid music he had.
Diddle, diddle, diddle, diddle, boom!
He'd be like, what the fucking...
What?
Like, what did you just...
Yeah.
About to appear at the end of the sentence.
Just kidding.
I wouldn't do that to you.
Death isn't the only way to inflict punishment for being caught by a monster.
In fact, as always, my proposed ideas aren't meant to be actual things that could be done,
but rather demonstrations of what a game could look like on a surface level.
And these games exist.
Go find them, Joe.
In this case, it's to make monsters genuinely terrifying while you are...
Oh, fuck off.
Make monsters genuinely terrifying.
You see, this is when I feel like there's weaknesses in the script.
You use true, real, and genuinely.
None of those things mean anything.
Tell me what true horror, genuine horror, and real horror are.
It's genuinely terrifying while you are in control of the game.
A failed state may force you to make a difficult choice in the game's story
or ask you to choose which supporting character will receive punishment for you.
Now, I mentioned this to you before.
I think we talked about it the other day.
There would eventually be a point.
If the failed state meant that there was some impact on the story directly,
eventually it would reach a point where if you died too many times,
it would stop having any effect.
So this is an imperfect solution.
Yeah, it just delays the same problem he has.
Yeah, exactly.
Eventually, he'd still not like it.
So what do you do?
And like, I guess the point where it's like,
Joseph, you just want it to be real life, but you don't actually die for real.
Like, somehow.
And then I think VR might be the solution just to get him
so immersed that even a death can bring him back in, you know?
I don't know if that'll do it for him.
I don't know what'll do it for him.
I just hope you get there, Joe.
Because, man, being freaked out.
We just want to see you happy, Joseph.
Yeah, we just want to see you happy.
This is really just an intervention.
We want to make sure I enjoy video games again.
I don't want to save you so much.
Doing this for you.
This is what?
This is an intervention for Joseph?
Absolutely.
Joseph Anson.
Notion.
No, he wants to play with real humans that die.
He's like, he's just buying people.
The deep web is true horror.
Play my game.
Stake.
The balance here is to never make this punishment result in a game that is
worse to play after that point.
Just like a setback caused by death should never become a tedious trip
through repeated content no matter what.
The tedious is subjective, my man.
What can you do?
If you're impatient, a lot of these games are going to be objectively flawed.
But it's like, what's the alternative?
That's the one thing I'm confused about.
Well, let's think about it, I guess.
If somebody wanted to make a Dead Space-like horror game
where it has characters in a story,
how do you make it to where your deaths impact it,
but eventually you'd reach a point where they stop impacting?
Or if you forced them to restart, how would it not be tedious?
You can't make a game like that.
Like, so what can you do?
Think of the most energetic and bombastic piece of content ever.
There'll be someone out there who goes, that was boring.
You'll be like, why?
You go, it was just balls to the wall constant action.
That doesn't faze me.
And there's a lot of people, like when I was younger, I was a teenager.
If something was popular, like Halo, Call of Duty, what have you,
my default, just because I was a little cunt,
was I would just be like, you know, I don't like it.
No, yeah, I know what you mean, especially people out there.
Rapping something that's like beloved and then being like, I don't get it.
Yeah, like I love Undertale.
And I understand that the fan base is like complete cancer.
And it's a lot of like young children, much like the FNAF series.
So it's like that really gets at some negative points,
but I can still enjoy it.
Despite the fact that there's other people out there that hate it.
Hey, FNAF has Pimitath.
Maybe Joe would like FNAF.
I think it does, right?
FNAF is a horror game masterpiece.
I mean, let's be fair.
It has the technically randomly generated enemies
in that they'll change which order they attack you.
And there's a lot on the line.
If you die, it sends you back to night one.
You have resource management in it.
Like this could work.
I actually like FNAF, like in terms of just a lot of the effort
that went into it and just sort of the atmosphere.
It's got plenty of fucking flaws.
On a mechanical level, I can understand where the appeal comes from
in terms of like balancing all of the being like,
I've got to account for each entry.
Each enemy could come in while also maintaining light
and winding boxes and stuff.
It's a lot for your head to work with.
I just, I don't know, I wasn't, you know what?
You know what I'm going to say, Chase?
It didn't scare me.
We need to make a game that will.
We need to fix FNAF.
This punishment results in a game that is worse to play after that point.
Just like a setback caused by death should never become a tedious trip
through repeated content no matter what the game is.
The other important thing is to make sure mistakes are always the fault of the player
if the punishment is going to be associated.
You can't do that.
There's always going to be, because it's not just about it being factually the player's fault.
It's also like, you know, like people say Dark Souls every time you die,
it's always the player's fault.
Like that's a thing people often say, but it's like, it's not true.
There are several deaths where you'll be like, oh, that's boxes.
Like, how is that?
Like, how is that the player's fault?
Like, come on.
And what I'm saying is a limitation of the medium.
It's like, video games is pretty tough to make it so that every single time anything
bad happens, it's completely on the player.
And even if it is, is it important that the player feels that?
Because a lot of players won't, and then they'll come to the same conclusion you do,
where they're like, yeah, that's shit.
I'm not playing.
This doesn't scare me.
So what relevance is it ultimately?
Like, this is why I'm just...
Yeah, I think a lot of the issue is that he's kind of speaking as if there's like a tier,
as if there's like games that are objectively, undeniably scary versus just these,
which are kind of scary or could be considered scary.
He's going through so many subjects.
This is why I knew this would be interesting, because we've, we can,
how are we doing?
Two hours for 11 minutes.
Like, it's, and we're trying to speed it up every once in a while.
Trying really hard, yeah.
So much to say.
Someone said, TDS is subjective.
Okay, what if after playing DS2 for 100 hours, the game randomly started everything over?
That would be tedious, right?
Arguing where the line is is different from no line.
No, there's going to be someone out there who says that's not tedious.
They could be insane.
It doesn't matter.
It's a subjective.
Tedious is a feeling, right?
Like, let me, let me make sure.
It's like the feeling of tedium, which is essentially a vision of boredom, as far as I know.
If you were to say it's repetitive, I wouldn't deny that.
If you're going to say it's, I don't know, counterproductive.
The state or quality of being tedious.
Let's look at tedious.
I'm curious.
I just want to check, because, you know, I haven't looked at the definition for it.
Too long, slow, or dull, tiresome, or monotonous.
All of those things are subjective.
Is something too long?
It's like, well, everybody's going to have a different take on that.
Slow, again, same thing.
Dull, same thing.
Tiresome, same thing.
Monotonous, same thing.
I suppose you could argue that if I spoke in the same tone, I would be monotonous objectively.
But if you had all of your resources in Dark Souls 2, and then they randomly took them away
from you and restarted the game, wouldn't that be the opposite of monotonous in that
you'd have a completely different state compared to what you just had?
I think it's just tough to be like objective when it comes to this particular genre that's
always been so, because the thing is it plays with your psychology.
And psychology obviously like varies from person to person.
I'll just say, it can't be things that are objectively terrifying.
No.
Yeah, that's the main problem, is we're not really-
That's why we need to know these words.
Yeah, we're not defining our terms and variables.
Because people are like, oh, this is so tedious to define every word.
But it's like, I don't know what you're telling me unless I know what you mean by the word.
Is Joseph Anderson saying the thing is repetitive, or is he saying it's boring?
Those two are very different things.
And I'm happy to agree with one, but not the other, because
all five of us in this call would react very differently to
do every situation in every game. That's just how it happens.
There'll be times when we all sort of agree.
Maybe he'd like to just stick to roguelike games,
because since that is like a big thing for him.
I'm not being facetious when I say that.
I don't agree with you.
I don't play puzzle games because I just do not have the attention span or the maturity
or the patience to do any of that shit.
So I just don't play them, but I don't go around saying like,
puzzle games are not gratifying.
They're just not.
Yeah. And if you said, why puzzles games don't, don't puzzle me.
And you're like,
and it's also possible that when you're, when you're a stupid little kid,
you don't understand anything.
So you can throw any horror game your way and you'll be really impressed.
Like, holy shit, that was terrifying.
But now that you're an adult and you understand how game design works
and what the rules are.
Like, for example, whenever I play a horror game or any kind of action game,
no, actually just horror games.
If I know that the game hasn't taught me how to do combat yet,
then I generally feel safe until it does.
Because then once it teaches you how to use a gun,
how to equip the gun, et cetera, then it's like, okay, now this is fair.
So when a game throws at me a monster that I am actually expected to fight
or run away from, whichever, and it hasn't taught me how to fight yet,
that always catches me off guard and I'm always impressed.
So this is more of like a discussion about,
I guess, knowledge of game design and that may take you out of the experience.
Yeah, partially.
Because sometimes I watch a TV show where they're trying to pretend like it's reality.
And I'm like, that shot could only have been achieved if the camera was put there.
And you walk like, this could have only been achieved if you shot this twice,
but you're making it seem like you shot this once, even though it's, you know,
reality TV, it's like, well, I can't enjoy this now.
Because now I recognize the farce.
Yeah.
But I don't know, like, I guess in video games,
it's a little bit different because you're, it's, it's real time.
So there's a level of unpredictability to it.
Yeah.
Also, someone in chat said, who's the crying human Pepe?
No, that wasn't me.
Sorry to interrupt, go on.
You know, it's really suitable as well, because he's staring at the video on the stream.
But yes, I'm relatively certain he ends at two minutes before the end.
So we're pretty close to the end here.
Yeah, it's just a lot of power through it.
It's unique to the horror genre.
What is unique is that you're meant to feel frightened for yourself and for the character
starring in the game you're playing a character that is an immortal force of nature that can
never be killed, only stricken with inconvenience.
I can be killed.
I don't Yeah, I'm sorry, Joe, but they can be killed.
And then you, you, you respawn like, you mean like, see, this is why everybody thinks
permadeath is all he's after, because you correct that statement too.
Oh, I mean, they don't permanently die.
And it's like, so you want permadeath.
You know what the death is?
Sorry, I'll be really quick.
But what he needs to do is when he dies in dead space in amnesia, in alum, wake,
he fucking restarts the game.
It seems like he has, he has questions that he doesn't even really understand himself.
I don't know if he I don't know if he's properly articulating his point.
I don't know.
Like, I honestly don't know.
We can give it a second.
Listen, if you guys want.
I was gonna say one thing is like, did he also inadvertently admit that so it is a horror game
because they didn't tend to find you or still off the cards?
You're right.
Because he said like the one thing you can guarantee for what he said that is the one
thing the horror genre is supposed to do.
I was like, Oh, what's he gonna say?
And it's like, it's supposed to frighten you.
I'm like, yeah.
Yeah.
So can we do that with that?
So can we pull your head out your ass now and stop calling it not a horror?
No, it doesn't scare him.
It's just not a horror.
Unique to the horror genre.
Fuck.
What is unique is that you're meant to feel frightened for yourself and for the
Because he said it was a failure.
The summer is a failure of a horror game.
Okay, but would it not be better to say that a horror game is a game that is attempting to
make you feel like why is it defined by the reaction from the audience?
Shouldn't it be defined by the intentions of the people who made it?
Didn't he say it's supposed to make you?
He said it's supposed to make you feel frightened as opposed to they're trying
to make you feel frightened, which I guess is the distinguished.
Because it because this is more me going back to the whole soma comment.
Because I'm sure it's something that you're interested in.
The obvious the obvious point is just because you weren't scared doesn't mean that one other
people weren't scared and two that the author of the publisher or the developer, whatever
their intention was to scare you just because you weren't scared doesn't mean they failed.
Yeah, like I guess it's sort of a middle ground.
You know, if I wrote a book set in like the middle ages, and it was all about swords.
And I said, this is science fiction.
You can be like, well, it's not.
And then you you justify it because one character has a wristwatch.
One of them has a wristwatch.
See a sci fi for the people in medieval times.
He got that from a web.
I mean, it's it's middle ground, I guess.
So there's a middle ground between what the developer intended and how the audience perceives it.
Well, to remind me, Al, we had like a conclusion about the conversation that is of genre.
And it was like, what is the purpose of identifying a genre in the first place?
Why do we do it?
Well, yeah, because when it comes down to it, when you have these people who are saying,
like, you know, this game is not X or whatever, it's just like, okay,
if I agree that someone is not a horror game, what does that does that happen?
Does that detract from anything?
Does that detract how, you know, how I experienced it?
No, I shat my pants still.
Okay. Does it make me like think less of the game?
Like, you know, objectively?
No, because, well, I disagree.
But like, you know, if I just assume I went with it, it's like, yeah, does it actually
like knock off points of the scale of like how I rate the game in my head?
No, it doesn't.
It's just an arbitrary shit place to die on a hill for because it's the same argument with
people who say that, like, you know, certain games, well, all games are technically RPGs
because you're always role playing someone.
It's like, what does that prove?
What does that what insights like give us?
How does it change my position on anything?
It's just a fucking it's a misnomer.
It's fucking bollocks.
I mean, any of you want to respond to this?
Problem is, and they're referring to us.
They don't even talk about what Joe is trying to talk about.
He talks about gameplay systems of horror games.
What?
Let me put this out there, just just for clarification.
For all the people who Joseph has actually commented on certain people for this, he said,
like, you got it.
Thank you.
You got it.
Why do you think so many people haven't got it?
Like, whatever it is, a lot of people fail to understand what you're saying.
To a certain extent, you could go, well, they're just stupid.
But at some point, you've got to wonder if you've done something wrong in terms of the
way that you've committed it.
Quentin said the same thing about his response to Rags and me that we didn't get the points
he was making because we were taking them down piece by piece.
But then once we'd gotten enough proof, he was just like, OK, fine, I made a mistake.
It's like, we've gone through this entire video responding to the statements made.
What do you want from us?
Like, that's the best we could do.
Um, I don't think well, you just said because he doesn't articulate it well.
It's like, I agree.
I would say so.
Like, maybe maybe his points would make more sense in a one on one conversation.
But this is the thing.
You can't blame somebody for failing to understand your argument.
Man, I got to defend you there, Fringy.
Someone just said, when does Joseph Anderson call someone stupid?
It's like, no, Fringy wasn't wasn't actually saying that was a quote from Joseph Anderson.
Don't worry.
What?
I don't even know how you got that, but that's not what he was saying.
I'm not even sure that came from.
Lord Zarkon said earlier that they're not we're not trying to think.
And by the way, referring to us as they we can see what you're saying.
It's very rude.
He said we're not trying to understand from Joseph's point of view.
And I asked him how so and he said from his point of view of not being scared.
The video is him trying to think of ways to change that.
Not really.
I mean, he only spent like two minutes proposing alternate ideas.
And only that we've said several times.
I know Chase has definitely said it, though.
It's like we can kind of see what he's getting at.
But he's like he's hard.
Like he's not explaining it super well, but like I get the gist of what he's saying.
I just don't entirely agree.
Like I'm not I'm not on the anti Joseph Anderson.
I reckon it'd be a great conversation if I was to be able to talk to him about this
just to see what he says about all these different mechanics and how
he's getting some of these games exist.
And I'm willing to bet on all of this is given it as much thought as you have.
So that might be why he probably he made a video on it.
And he said that he was going to make it like two years ago.
Is that right?
Like when he when he talks about soma.
So it's been in production this long.
I'm really disappointed.
Oh, are you longer than that?
I doubt he's been working on it since then.
No, no, I don't think I would.
I'm going to put all this is this is my opinion.
It's not based on facts.
I think he rushed this video out to make it for Halloween.
Yeah, he missed Halloween though, didn't he?
I think it was a day after Halloween.
Yeah, I reckon that he was like shit, man.
Halloween would be a great time to release the video on why our games don't scare me.
I better throw that together quick.
Lord Zarkon said, I agree.
He doesn't explain it well.
And I don't agree with most of the video as I'm a bitch.
We're all bitches.
He redeemed it at the end.
Yeah, none of us are perfect, especially not.
Hell, it's called every frame of pause.
Like how bitchy do you have to be to do that?
God.
I'd like to chat to him about this though, because I think it's an interesting topic.
Yeah.
But I think it's perspective is a little bit bizarre.
Absolutely.
This is the thing I told you before I started this video up this time.
I was like, how do you do this in 13 minutes?
Because if it was one minute, I would be like, yep, I can totally see this working.
But 13, that means he has to actually bring in references.
And there's no way he's going to bring in enough.
And you know, we've gone through it.
Yeah.
And that's the case.
It was assumption.
Yeah.
He made a three hour video on Super Mario Odyssey, but spent 11 minutes trying to.
Genre.
I didn't even make it through that video.
Like, what was his Mario not to get to?
What was the just?
He didn't like it.
He goes through every, he goes through every moon collection.
And he did say, I remember reading this, he said that for the people who found the video tedious,
that was the point.
It was the idea that he shows you how to collect every one of them.
And then you as the, as the viewer go, man, this is boring.
And then you realize that the game was boring.
So fucking meta.
Hey man, you didn't get it.
But it, you know, it is important to remember though, that when it's presented in that manner,
of course it's going to come across as tedious.
But when you're actually playing the game, it's a totally different.
Like when you're playing the game, it's not a literal list of just things being read out to you.
I'd need to watch the video again.
So I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt and say maybe it did
have the intended effect that he actually wanted.
But I mean, if you're going to say, for example, there's, there's 16 ones that you
collect by running on the spot for an hour.
All you need to do is tell us that really, because that's, that's, that sounds awful.
But if you show for that, for that video, he compiled a one hour and 12 minute video
showing how long you have to wait for the, you got a moon animation, just to like,
just to be like, oh, this is how long it takes to watch animations.
But he comes across as like he hated the game.
I remember reading Reddit threads are really pissed at him.
Like, and I remember I told Alex about this because I just read it.
I could, I could not giggle.
They were like, people shouldn't have a problem with this because Joseph does research.
He actually played all of the 3d Mario games up to that point.
But the idea that I think that's, that's probably one of the reasons why he gets so
much flat because I actually didn't realize just how many people dislike him or his content
or perspectives, because I always just thought he was like, he made interesting perspectives.
But when you do genuinely, I think I get way more hatred than he does.
Like, I think he's right.
I always thought that you relatively a golden boy on YouTube a little bit.
I didn't realize that's the, what I was going to say is that's kind of the main problem when
you sort of, because with my videos, I kind of try to approach from an analytic perspective,
but I'm not like an analyst by any stretch of the imagination.
So I'm totally open to be corrected.
But it's interesting because I guess he does sort of brand himself as like an analysis guy.
So that means whenever he makes a small mistake, or he sort of makes an oversight with something,
people come down on him pretty hard.
Yeah, it happens. It happens to me, I've been, I've been paying for a thing that you can't
backstab the jester robes ever since I said it on the Dark Souls 2 series is like a million comments,
point out how wrong that is. And it doesn't, it's like, I'd say it's 1% of the videos points.
If that's, that's actually overstating it, but I'd be like, yeah, I've got to accept it.
That was a mistake. And it's like, my bad. I didn't, I didn't realize I wish,
I wish my Dark Souls expert friends would have told me it's their fault. Really think about it.
I am you tube man. Also, keep late master said issue is that Joseph values immersion above all
example, the alien being invincible in alien isolation, quote, didn't make sense.
The alien couldn't be hurt or seem to be following me the whole game.
I can see that. Yeah.
I mean, the the enemies in amnesia, you can stun them, but you can't kill them. You can find weapons
in amnesia, but you can't equip them. The the only counter narratively there is for that is that
Daniel's not a guy who can, you know, fucking use web as recycle. Come on. Average human can pick
up a hammer. Not like it's impossible. And then last thing really quickly, left window added
mauler and guys. We are guys. Do you have to be scared for yourself in a horror game for it to be
good? Can you not just be scared for a character in the game you're playing? I think like 99% of the
time when I'm scared in a game, it is because it's me. Like, for example, Resident Evil four,
that game is terrifying because at any given moment in time when you're playing that,
you know, you die, you're gone. But then contrast that with Resident Evil five
and you have a partner to bail you out. It immediately becomes less scary.
How's this for a left field thing? I don't think you have to be scared to consider the
horror game. Good. You can recognize that it was well constructed and it just didn't work for you.
Sure. Or that it had appropriate theming, even though you weren't personally scared.
All mechanics were really solid and the story was really well written. But you can be like,
I just wasn't immersed. Didn't work for me. And that's kind of what I feel like this video is.
These games, I just don't get a boost. And I'm like, that's great. Let's just let's just let's
polish this off. We're so close. We got like two minutes. We just added like, we can rewatch it.
What is unique is that you're meant to feel frightened for yourself and for the character
starring in the game you're playing. A character that is an immortal force of nature that can
never be killed, only stricken with inconvenience. Ironically, just like the monstrous supernatural
villains that slashed their way through their victims throughout the course of their movies.
It's a strange conflict when you realize it. It's like Superman being afraid of a spider or Jason
being afraid of some boobs. So next time you're playing a horror game, ask your I'm sorry,
I just don't follow. I think I think what he's trying to say is because you can respawn,
you're not at risk. So there's no reason to be afraid. We've already established there's so many
games that remove that mechanic, or at least have a different mechanic. It wasn't just that like his
use of words, like for the unstoppable force and all that. It's like, look, when I'm playing these
games, I don't feel like I'm fucking doom guy when I'm playing them. No, I feel like the characters
in those contexts. I feel like the vulnerable Daniel in Indonesia. I mean, that's that's the
immersive aspect of a video game is that you sort of feel like like you're not really perceiving it
as you in the game, you're you're sort of trying to fill the shoes of that character.
Um, it's a little bit different, I think. It's a slightly different thing.
Man could totally be afraid of spiders or act of phobia is about being irrational.
It's a kryptonite perfectly. Um, but yeah, just the also the idea that like,
the death part isn't necessarily what bothers me in amnesia. Like I'm not fearing of dying. I'm
just fear the thing itself, that creature. I don't know where it's from. I don't know how it operates.
I don't want to be in the room with it. I want to get away from it. Me dying. All that is is a delay
before I end up in that room again. Well, if you don't play this video, I'm going to fucking come
over right there. I'm going to make you fuck off. And that's going to be proper incentive.
Self, are you really as scared as you could be? Or are you appreciating the fiendishly
realized theme of the game instead of its actual scares? But how is the theme not be scary? The
actual scares, but not the themes again. Oh, it's did. We did. We got to give him
every piece of context. Okay. Next time you're going to ask yourself, are you really as scared
as you could be? Or are you appreciating the fiendishly realized theme of the game instead
of its actual scare? And remember, no matter how weak a horror protagonist may be compared to other
genres, there's no way to dismiss their immortality. Yes. Stop it. Stop the game. I'm so
sorry for your blood pressure. He's already provided counters to that in his video. He's
been talking about other mechanics that are in games that counter that. They were horror games,
were they? They were roguelites, but they are roguelites that are horror games.
Called until doing a horror game, mate. So I don't know what his fucking rules are.
Go, go, go. I got to listen to it again. That was make sure. That's all I want to do.
How we before a protagonist may be compared to other genres, there's no way to dismiss their
immortality. You are a person safely separated from the horrific world, remotely controlling
an unstoppable job. So how is that any different from watching a film or an action? Just go into
a fucking jail and just start like making fun of everyone. Well, yeah, characters.
I'm not invested in this action because I can't die. There's no risks. I'm just running around
shooting until basically always saying here, if we extrapolate this point further, is that media
is incapable of being immersive or entertaining because you are not involved in what's happening.
I enjoy this game for its scary themes, not its scary gameplay. Therefore, it's not scary.
For fuck's sake. I enjoy this film for its action themes,
not this action. Therefore, it's not an action game. Do you get what I mean with how like in
an action game, it's pretty crazy because you're like, can I kill those guys before they kill me?
That would be the exchange. And it's like down your accuracy and your positioning.
And why the fuck does it matter when you can just respawn, right?
Yeah. Well, well, Weisenlacht said there's no way to ignore your immortality. That doesn't
sound like an opinion. Yeah, no, it's an opinion, guys. Read the title of the video. What's wrong
with you? Shit, mate. Wasting the potential video games have to fully realize what we've
all wondered while watching horror movies. Fuck you. That's just you, buddy. Sorry,
but genuinely, I think games realize horror better than most, most of the best movies.
I mean, isn't this kind of insulting to video game developers who make horror games?
You're pretty much dismissing all their work because you can respawn.
Films are amazing, but like games get to be films plus a bunch of other stuff if they want to.
They get to add a whole bunch of other things. It depends on how they're made.
There's some things, though, that, you know, that there are some games that could there's
some films that we just wouldn't translate to games. I don't deny that. But he's like talking
about how it's just like we learn from films what games could be. I'm just like, what?
Oh, fuck me. We got we got a list of that again, though,
because don't want to straw man and don't straw man him. There's no way to dismiss their immortality.
You are a person safely separated from the horrific world, remotely controlling an unstoppable god
wasting the potential video games have to fully realize what we've all wondered while watching
horror movies. Have we all that what we've all done? Why is he now showing Undertale?
That's a good question, actually.
I don't get how that fits in that just stuck out to that. A lot of his like references are
hit and miss like, he's like, I just got to put in some B roll. Fuck it. Is he saying
Undertale realize some potential that games hadn't previously? Or is he saying it doesn't?
It's self-aware.
Your games have to fully realize what we've all wondered while watching horror movies.
What would I do if I was trapped in this situation? I eagerly.
I mean, it does realize that because you're still playing the game.
It does realize what you would do because you're still.
Yeah, but it doesn't because he can't respawn while this person he's playing as is.
What if he's playing? I don't know.
What if he restarts the game the second he dies? Does that solve the problem? I don't know.
Does reincarnation exist? The true horror question.
How do you know you don't just come back with a white memory? How do you do it?
I do if I was trapped in this situation.
I eagerly await the game that pulls this off for the humans instead of the monster.
Most Suitable Music.
Yeah, I think that's it. Yeah, there we go. It's just a Patreon.
No, we did it. We did it. We did it. We did it. We did it.
We did it, lads.
Did you say there was something you wanted to say for the end, Chase?
Yeah, I really do think people are saying in the comments like,
Chase, you really should make sure these guys play Visage.
Yeah, if you guys haven't, seriously, look it up.
Oni plays a really great play through of that.
Because Chris O'Neill, Oni, he is particularly very difficult to scare.
It takes a lot for him to like a horror game. He can still get scared, but he'll still have
criticisms. And he really, really liked Visage. He played it with three friends,
and they were all trying to fuck with each other and make little noises.
Like, is that in the game or is that real life?
And it's just like a really great time overall to watch him play that.
And he's super, super critical of all games forever.
So for him to like Visage, I think kind of lends a sense of credibility to it.
But just more than anything, when you play Visage, the whole thing is,
much like Amnesia, don't stay in the dark. You'll go insane.
But unlike Amnesia, when you stay in the dark in Visage,
like your insanity builds up. And then once it gets to be too much,
you can actually get killed by a jump scare.
And the game will constantly do things to turn off the lights,
and certain sources of light will reduce your insanity.
At one point, you can get to be too insane, and you can only restore it with medication.
Like, there's a lot of interesting balances. And there's one part where
a big specter monster thing, you'll know it's near because you'll hear like kind of whispering
and visual flickering, and you need to like get away from that area.
And if you don't, it'll kill you. So it lends a real sense of hostility and threats versus
because it's not just, oh, no, I died. I have to go back to the respawn.
No, it's you literally everything in that game makes your fucking like your spine tingle with
fear. There's an M you're on the corner, you just hear him going like, and you're just like, nope,
concern in this way. And it doesn't really matter. You know, if you have to respond,
because obviously you will have you if you that's subjective chase.
I'm nowhere near the fucking mental level. You guys, I'm not even following along with
your train of thought. I'm just thinking, I'd like to play a scary game.
No, I will. I will look into it. It sounds interesting.
Yeah, it's great. It's really it's only early access.
So Chase, what's your conclusion in this video?
Joseph Anderson can I want to take a big poopy on his son's chest.
You might take that seriously and tweet about it.
No, like once again, I really don't. I don't really have anything against the dude. Like,
I think he sounds kind of like he's full of shit a lot of the time. And he speaks with an
air of authority that he doesn't really he doesn't really back it up, I guess, like, especially this
video was super weak, mainly just in the sense that he started off subjective kind of went objective
showed a really limited range of games. And that didn't really fit with what he was talking about.
I mean, I'm still trying to piece together how Undertale fit for that shot.
I did see someone argue that when you die in Undertale, it sort of changes the storyline
instead of death or life or something. Not really, though, you just restart.
Fringy, what's your take?
On the whole thing? Yeah, sure.
Man, you know, I can't. I'm just this could have been a really interesting discussion, but
the it's too short, and it's not well articulated. So yeah, just ends up being this confusing mess.
If he provided a lot more examples, then a lot better, I think.
I'm not sure that it would have been because I think it's conclusions are just ridiculous.
And there might be the problem of cherry picking, he'll pick all the games that match what he's
saying, as opposed to ones that don't. We assume he played them because he's making comments on
the whole genre. Berman gaming said the real issue is that he has no clue what he wants from
horror. He doesn't want death, but he also wants immersion and everything.
Immersion's a fucking magic dragon chasing. Like, it's not something you just get. It's not like
you make a game, you go, this will be immersive for everyone. It's like, no, you can make decisions
that will work for people, but won't work for other people. And I always thought that was the
thing we agreed on. Are you saying that it's subjective?
I just, man, the amount of people who played Amnesia and said it was crap,
boring, and is a pathetic attempt at being horror. I was like, I mean, if they didn't get spooked,
if they didn't, if they didn't connect with Daniel, they didn't give a shit about the story,
if they found the atmosphere to be more encroaching and annoying rather than
immersive, what am I going to do? Tell them that they felt things wrong?
And, you know, you get this, where it's like, but if they had done this, then I would have
been amazed and maybe other people would have been, it's like, just for you.
Alex, what's your takeaway? Used until Dawn and Twilight, and ironically,
I can't get over that. How dare you, this joke.
You didn't clarify Soma. Is it a horror? He never answered the question. Tell me.
Yeah, honestly, yeah, that's all I have to say, really.
Really quickly. Where was it? Elisa Silva said, when you make a game for everyone,
you make it. It's the same with marketing, truly. Like, when you advertise to everyone,
you have to choose a specific subset of the demographic to market to, or else it's not
going to be effective. It's palatable to everybody. It won't be palatable to anybody
in a very significant, core way, oftentimes. It'll just be like, well, it's the idea of, like,
the popcorn movie, right? It's the one everyone goes to see and goes, that was neat, moving on.
As opposed to, you bring up a movie that barely anyone sees, but those are the people who did,
they go, oh my god, that was like, that was fucking Citizen Kane.
Because it's, like, tailor-made for different people, I suppose. Let me get this subjective.
I keep saying it. That's the meme from this fucking stream.
Metal, what did you think of the video?
Not a whole lot to add, actually. This is poorly phrased at some points. Could be an interesting
topic to discuss, but I don't know. It stands out definitive in the end, and I don't think there's
any follow-up on that shit, so. Well, let me ask you this, guys. Did you feel
you were broadened on anything thanks to the video? No.
He kind of just made some opinions that I've thought about in the past, but he kind of tried
to present it as, like, this is a, like, again, I know which has opinion. He kind of tried to
present it as, like, this is a flaw of game design in horror. Subsequently, I don't like horror games
anymore because they all do this, and it's a flaw. Like, that may not have explicitly been
what he was trying to say, but it's certainly kind of how it came off.
Yeah. I mean, hopefully this just spawns conversation, not just with what we've
talked about, not just with the chat, but comments as well, because it's an ongoing
discussion. It's very interesting what makes horror games scary, exactly. It's just whenever
someone comes out and says, this is what it is, like, uh-oh. Like, that guy's gonna have to have
some really strong references, you know. I'm now going to tackle the superchats all in a row, so
Michael has said, I got the dose. Also, I got another anime recommendation, Mob Psycho 100,
by the same author that made One Punch Man. I couldn't get into it, but I hear really good
things. Granted, I only watched the first episode, so I'm talking about this, but it just didn't
hook me. Anyone else hear that one? I do hear everyone say it's great. Yeah, I've heard of it.
It's on the list. Funny enough, in the manga, Saitama wears a Mob Psycho jumper, and I was like,
I recognize the name, but I googled it, and I went, oh, oh yeah, that's the anime I need to watch.
You know, if you want a really good, kind of tying it into the topic of the video,
if you want to see a really, really good anime that has a lot of sort of overarching,
it's not really horror, but it's definitely, it's more psychological horror for sure. Check out
Monster. It's like from fucking the early 2000s. That's a really good anime. I know that Alex
has just waited to be like, will he be right? It's about a surgeon who regrets not operating on
a guy, and then he confronts the grieving family afterwards, and they're really upset with him,
and he ruined their lives, and then he's like, fuck, next time I, because originally he was going
to operate on this guy, and his boss was like, no, operate on this other guy, because he's donating
millions to our hospital, and he's like, all right, and then the guy ends up dying, he feels terrible,
and then later he gets an opportunity to save a little boy, and his boss is like, no, go save
this guy that's donating a bunch, and he's like, fuck you, and he goes and saves the kid, and then
it turns out that the kid grows up, and he's a mass murderer, and now he needs to stop his,
that's not actually too inaccurate, because he's a member of like a- I know, I know.
So the next donation, horror games are for queers, thoughts?
Hi, I'm queer, it's continued. You might as well just suck a dick,
frankly, I'm just saying. That's a good question. Which essayist is the closest to Godelb?
I don't think any essayist should ever be anywhere near what happens in those videos, because,
if anything, the voice is based on Mark Brown, the content was more based on H. Boba Guy,
a lot of quotes are used for those different people, so it's really up to you guys.
What do you subjectively feel about that? Can't wait till this later, it'll be a great way for
tomorrow. Thanks, Skull and Wheels, great to see Chase on this one, his stuff's always good.
Chase? He did this video the way that he did it, top Jared reference there, I'm afraid,
if no one gets it, it's top. This better be longer than three hours,
where I'm pulling your wheels off, Skull and Wheels, General Saint Chief of the
Goddamn Podcast Army. I don't think we're going to make it to three hours, we'll get close, though.
Very close. That's why we started at 12 past eight.
We're two hours and 40 minutes right now. I always hear everyone praising Super
Patch Wolf, and like his video essays are pretty good, but I just can't get over the way.
I know, I know. I really do enjoy his content, especially obviously the anime shit, but yeah.
It skews me out, it's like back up, dude, I can hear you fine, project a little bit.
Because there was one time where I did a horror anime review, and I talked like this.
Do you ever have seen Salad Fingers, he reminds me of that.
It's like whenever people do that, it reminds me of people who are just like,
tell me my voice.
That's more horrifying than fucking until dawn.
Absolutely. Fucking sound effects is terrifying.
Yeah, most of the sound effects and shit.
It's like you don't know when something's going to jump at you and fucking jump scare you in that
show. Anita Sarkeesian just announced Spooky Game 2. Finally, yeah.
No, reread the name, reread how he spelled Sarkeesian.
Oh, oh, Anita Sarkeesiani?
Is that... I don't get it.
I don't know, I think he was just memeing, but maybe.
Sarkeesiani, like a pasta.
Joseph Anderson is a pretentious idiot who desperately wants to be Mathematosis.
I still think that he's actually decent, I just got angry at him with the Soma thing.
Because I have to remember that there are so many content creators, there's so much
worst... This is one of his worst videos, don't get me wrong. It adds nothing to the
conversation in this video. If anything, it'll confuse lots of people because you'll have
people parroting this now. Horror games aren't scary because you respawn. You'll be like, oh,
god. We have to unpack that for you so that you realize that...
The weird thing is, I completely understand where he's coming from, but what is the solution?
Well, you often get a bunch of chase when you're paying attention.
But yeah, I genuinely think his Soma video, it does more bad than good,
but I thought his Witness video was good. I liked his video on...
Trying to remember what other ones I've seen.
Oh, controversially, any of you guys played Inside?
It was the sequel to Limbo, one more sequel. Spiritual Successor to Limbo, I guess.
I've seen all of it.
I was not impressed. I played it, and I found it kind of lame, and I watched his video on it,
and he pretty much articulated everything I had a problem with.
And I was like, I don't know if it's because I was biased against the game or if because
it was a well-made video, but I enjoyed that one too. And I think it'd be great to actually
have a conversation with, but I know there's no chance that's ever going to happen, especially
with this stream. Here's the thing, so not talking about anyone in particular, but I know
that all of those fucking YouTubers, they get critical acclaim, and then they get into their
clicks. They're all a bunch of fucking cunts. Like, I can't say anything about anyone in
particular, like I said, but I have met basically everyone from every fucking circle on YouTube,
and they all put on this air of like, I'm really reasonable and approachable and nice,
and you meet them, and they're just like huge cunts.
Have you met that asshole mauler guy who doesn't let people have feelings?
I hear he's a racist.
So true.
He doesn't like women.
You didn't like Black Panther.
He doesn't smell bad.
Black Panther.
Uh, it's infuriating. They conflate genre and themes.
That's another thing we didn't even really get to get into. Like, uh, what is it that defines
the genre versus having the themes of something that might be present in a genre? And this is
what I just said is so fucking complicated to go through. You'd need like 10 hours to be like,
okay, so this is like every single thing that is ever relevant to this conversation.
Mauler, are you gonna make a video like replying to Joseph Anderson's video? Because I would
actually, unironically, I would really love to see you break it down and give examples of what you
think of this stream will be that I'm busy with people that desperately waited my next TFA stuff.
I'm still working on it, but I really want you to do more like horror game stuff because that
shit is so enjoyable. I know I have a lot of fans are upset that I'm not doing horror anymore,
but the thing is the channel was never horror game challenge. Just what I tackled first.
That's that's what you did it really well. When I did my highlights back when I did
ukulele after resi or some people like what the fuck?
I was like, I wanted to cover it. That's all that's like Star Wars. Like what what is what
is this channel? It was like, oh, it's just non specific. I just fucking do what I want.
Pretty much. Yeah. And I think it's it's better for me, for making things if I don't
force myself to stick to one, let's say just format or focus or genre even. So yeah, you know,
there's going to be a horror game I'll cover in the future guaranteed. I just don't know when
exactly. Someone did ask earlier what you think of foolly coolly. You know that anime? Nope.
FLCL. It's a six episode OVA. And I think you'd really like it in terms of just like the pacing.
It's basically like a weird surreal music video. If you want to like a sort of test or more,
I probably would think of this thing. Then if Alex has seen it, he can give you sort of a
because me and him tend to follow the same sort of result on a lot of media.
Yeah, on this one. Can't say I know anything at all. Okay, you guys should check it out. It's
really good. And they made seasons two and three recently by a completely different team
with a much more limited budget. And it sucks my asshole. Oh, that's like, that's my fear.
Like so many animes. Someone said Joseph to school for school Anderson. So I'm gonna have to go
ahead and say now really don't want any hate towards Joseph Anderson. I just felt like this
was a great opportunity to talk about all the subjects. And as much as we've been like,
maybe someone here said that he's a dick or he's retarded or he's an idiot, or he's pretentious,
like any any insult, of course, he was just said casually, and we don't actually want anyone to go
hunt him down and tell him he's a piece of shit. He's not a bad person or anything like that.
No, we don't even know him.
We'll just remember, like, we're just disagreeing with a lot of things you say we don't like, you
know, yeah, we're not hating or I'll hate the hate of him. Genuinely had a long passionate comment
in one of the earlier refabs saying, can you please have a disclaimer discouraging witch hunting?
And I was like, I really wish that wouldn't be necessary.
You don't really need to tell your audience what to do people gonna do it regardless.
Well, this this saying that if discouraging it meant that instead of
10 people witch hunting, there was nine wouldn't it be worth it?
Not really.
I mean, that's what I'm kind of saying on principle is like, you guys
know that you should really do that, right? You don't need me to tell you that.
It's like, did your mom not raising that probably that I think that's okay.
People feel like it's a sort of responsibility thing. But I mean, I'm never going to be
encouraging people to do it. So should be Yeah.
But I mean, yeah, don't, please. And again, I shouldn't need to say it. But like, man,
like the people, you know, like the whole like people scared, what's your name,
the actress for Rose off Instagram. And I'm just like, I mean, surely that's only like that
validates the the evil, if you will, because everyone receives evil. But then it's only
once you take an action of like running away that it becomes like a real thing that people
like report about it. You're getting like a lot of actresses probably experienced the same thing.
Maybe she experienced more hate than others because she was Rose Tico. But again, why?
Why go after the actress? She had to read the script.
There's a lot of people out there that hate their fucking lives and
event to just like shit on people that are doing way better than that's what I've gathered. Anyway,
it's not like a blanket accusation. But that's just a general truth I've noticed.
There's a lot of people out there that they do that to like blow off steam.
That's mostly YouTube comments section. So it's just a fucking idiot. I don't know what he's
talking about. Oh, yeah, there are a couple of comments that I'll receive. And I'll be like,
I wonder if they just wanted to say it instead of they actually wanted me to read it. I wonder
if they'd be like, I prefer he doesn't read it. I just want to say it. I go ball in the chat said,
don't eat babies, guys. Why not? Tasty.
That's against the law. No one else wants it. You know, yeah.
You know how bad my my little pony friendship is magic is the best horror theme game ever made.
Fucking ponies. Goddamn. Like, I think that's that's a fair perspective.
No, yeah, Patrick Wilms made a video on Michael Bay and everyone's wondering if I'll cover it
just because Patrick Wilms but um, I from what I saw, I was just like, man, this seems fine to me.
Like, I don't really it's not when he has a concept of why you should not care about plot holes in
writing. That's like, that's explosive in terms of its subject. But if he if he says stuff like,
you know, there's certain techniques that Michael Bay uses that are actually good versus bad, I
should be like, am I and I don't necessarily disagree with that. And also the fact that it's
like a 40 minute video or something. So we'd be here for I say that as if anybody's gonna say
that's a problem. Like, yeah, fucking eight hour eFAB go for it. No, good horror, regardless of
media triggers your flight or fight instincts on a subconscious level as consciously you know you're
not in any real danger. But again, that would be like some guy out there says that that did not
happen for him. And then some other says it did it for him. So what do we say about that game?
Ultimately, if it did it for some and not for others. I suppose it would be good subjectively
as does do you want to do it again? Chase this the fucking subjectively with echoes. Yeah,
as are you? Yeah. Start over so I can like time it. No, Patrick made a video recently praising
Michael Bay. See, a lot of people may want to kill it. Alien Isolation does have a suicide.
Alien Isolation does have a suicide button. It's the shift key. Are they implying because when
you run the alien can find you easier? Yeah, it just instantly just goes I'm fucking here,
please get me. Can't stay for the climax of eFAB but so happy to finally catch one live.
Love listening while I work and suck as many danguses. We did read that one before and I
appreciate it. Thank you very much, Sally King. I never got notified that you're all streaming.
I am so sorry. I don't even know if the bell even works. So I can't even recommend reading it. I
don't know. I think it does. You don't really die in Undertale. You just go back in time.
This way. Couldn't you argue that in all games? Yeah, I guess so. And you're a superhuman, you
know? Or you could just you could be like, there's a God out there who doesn't like it when I die and
he just goes to go to the unstoppable force on to you. So true. When you're going to watch
such talk about G.O.G.O. I don't know. I don't know. Probably. Don't witch hunt people unless
it's H bomber guy. Oh, he said so we're fine. That's true. Well, when you're a fucking smug
and self-righteous and he kind of demands a chase. Did you see the tweet from him where he said,
I actually love it when people call me smug because that means they felt I was saying
things with absolute confidence when I have trouble doing that. He was meaner. He was smug
about being smug. Yeah, it's just it's like when you get someone who's that confident
that that, you know, it's like, it's like when people say you mad, bro. It's like, no,
you're just a fucking cunt. I was going to say, you can be confident without being smug. You know,
you just make statements. So you don't know. It's just annoying. That's all wrong. It just
makes him abrasive. When he was when he was doing the shit where he's like, oh, Matthew
Matosis, the game too hard for you. Oh, it's like, fuck you doing people. It's like he's
in your video. People fucking love Matthew Matosis. He's so likeable. He never takes
shots at anyone. He's always a mauler. He's always he's always so sweet. And he just kind
of does his own thing. He's not really been active on Twitter. He doesn't really have much
of a presence elsewhere. He'll he'll stream video games that he likes and you hear him
in his streams and he's just he's just having a good old chill dude. How could you how could you
find anything to even if you disagree with him, how could you bring yourself to be condescending
to him? So you must be a fucking giant turd of a person. That's why I was like,
throw up that shield chase. Like you can't say anything in my opinion.
He's got like the ultimate critic plot armor is too good. That's what it is, man. That's seriously
because I think it's relevant to say in my opinion in a script, I just don't feel like
people use it that way much anymore. It's more so to be like,
fuck, I just shot the script out a day. I'll just put in my opinion at the end.
Yeah, I'm not using any references here, guys. It's just my opinion.
Please all sorted. Remember, guys, if you disagree with me, it's my opinion. So
yeah, since my favorite counter argument is when people say if you don't like it, don't watch. It's
like, no. I mean, if you if you continuously kept watching a TV show just to hate on it,
I would ask you like stopping anytime soon. I pointed out that the Super Smash Bros.
Direct from yesterday morning was like really underwhelming. And I had so many people in my
mentions on Twitter saying you're the worst kind of smash fan. It's like, this is the only time
I've been critical of that coming out. If you watch the first time expected to be good that you
said it was bad. They were like, why are you watching it? I'd be like, I thought it would be
good. I had expectations. Why didn't you decide whether you liked it or not before you consumed
it? You fucking idiot. I was gonna say, because we wrap it up. Fringy, would you like to tell
people why they should subscribe to your channel while I post it in the chat? Oh, I I've I've
posted like four months. Just just just make it up. Just do it anyway. Listen and believe me
when I tell you that that's the best channel in the world. Subscribe. So Chase, why should
people subscribe to your shitty channel? Um, because I just kind of did like, you know how
Dunkey just makes videos and he just like has opinions. He's like, I like this. It's kind of
like that. But I don't, you know, I don't try to do anything like that. Where it's like, oh,
look at how funny I am. It's just like, if I like it, sometimes I'll do something really sentimental.
Sometimes I do something really like analytical. Sometimes I'll just review shit that I like,
usually animating games. I don't know. I don't fucking care. If you don't subscribe, feel free.
Well, let me just say that for the people listen and believe yes to this. Go and find
Chase's video on Klonoa. Try and the challenge is try and watch it without feeling sad.
I'm a little, it's a little campy. I'll let you know ahead of time. If you watch my Klonoa video,
I definitely play up how emotional it is because I was like extremely depressed when I was, I was
pretty taken with it. I think that it was appropriate. Is that bad? My, my, my girlfriend
at the time, uh, left me and then fucked five other people within the course of two months.
So I just needed to, that's actually, that's actually the reason, but I couldn't say it in
that's actually what happened. So that's why I made a sad video. I was like, that fucking bitch.
And then I suppose, uh, Alex and Mel, if I don't know, uh, what do I do?
Also Twitch streams are not allowed here. I get it.
Wait, you stream.
Oh man.
That wouldn't change. It's just like, wow, dude.
Yeah. I was going to say at least with Mel, I can actually post his Twitch channel if you guys
don't check it out, but I just stick around in games, but I don't do anything.
Yeah. For me, it's just expect to see me in another mauler stream sometime soon.
Maybe.
And yeah, uh, like I said, you know, uh, a lot of people will probably,
there's probably gonna be a top comment saying like, you guys just don't let people have opinions.
The idea was to have opinions about the opinions and to tackle sort of the, the whole point of
Efap is to look at the scripts of video essays pretty much because, um, we're tired of the idea
that you, you say a bunch of things and then you go in my opinion and then there's no discussion.
It's just boring. And I get it.
If they just came out and they said, I really like this YouTuber and I'm annoyed that you
tried to put holes in any of their arguments, just fucking say it. Well, I'll actually respect you
if you come out and say, I'm a massive fanboy fucking loser and I don't actually have an argument.
Why would anyone say that?
At least you're honest, you know, um, I've just been like, no, actually, objectively,
it's very true. And you were just a neckbearer. Yes. Open invitation for Joseph Anderson to
come and talk about the subject. If he would like to, no pressure. And, uh, uh, hopefully
you guys enjoyed this wherever and whenever you may be listening to it, it'll go up on the, um,
the second channel, which is called Moolah. Uh, you can find all of the past Efaps are, uh,
are on there. And if Joseph Anderson does see this, if Joseph Anderson does see this,
I promise smaller really doesn't bite. He's not as, as, as edgy in, in person or, you know,
on calls anyway, as he is in his video. Man, I would love to listen to Joseph Anderson talk
about video games. I would, I would, yeah, you're super nice. Like the fact that you fucking like
tore apart my video a little bit, I was, you think I wasn't butt hurt. I was super butt hurt.
I was like, this fucking asshole. And then I messaged you and you were so nice. I couldn't be mad.
Yeah. Same thing with, uh, wolf. Well, yeah. Uh, I said the wolf made a really bad video on
Thor Ragnarok. And he was told about it and he left a comment on my video being like,
what the fuck you say? And then I was like, want to have a conversation? He was like,
okay. And then we literally just talked about what we like about movies and stuff that we were
like, what are we friends? Okay. It's mostly your voice. Like you just fucking make me rock hard.
And I'm just like, I gotta keep talking to this guy. Um, I just, I heard your voice and I just went,
we got, we got two minutes. We got two minutes until three hours. We got to fill it. Uh, someone
talk about something racist. Oh, I'm sorry. What are you doing on the rest of your day?
A podcast like now, but it's not like I'm still waiting on somebody.
You're doing a podcast right now. You idiot.
I have to wake up early to do podcasts with you.
Fricking. You know who you sound like? Oh, what's the name of that Australian guy
that did a bunch of Australian guy. No, no, no. Fucking game. What's his name? I'll get back to
you. Keep talking. Is it alpha rad? I'm trying to think. I don't know. You gotta help me out here.
Uh, is it Taika Waititi? He's Australian.
He's New Zealand, isn't he? Yeah. Same thing. It's the same thing for me.
Oh, right. And Canadians and Americans are the same.
You have to say English and Welsh are the same to get to me.
Yeah. Oh, English and Welsh are the same.
You're a butt. You're a butt. You fucking walk.
Muse silk. That's who you remind me of.
Muse silk?
M-U-S-E-L-K.
Muse elk.
Yeah. Like listen to one of Muse elk's videos and tell me he doesn't sound exactly like me.
Is he a YouTuber?
Yeah, he's a YouTuber. He does a lot of Let's Plays and stuff.
It's like fucking one-to-one. Sorry, go on.
We are pretty much at three hours. I'm going to say thank you all for
for guesting. Thank you, Joseph Anderson, for providing the opportunity to talk about this
subject in such detail of pedantry that we often do. Thank you, chat, for the donations
ad for the interaction. It's been fun and hope you enjoyed it. I'll see you all next time. Goodbye.
Fuck you.
