Here we are now I'm gonna turn my fan down so it doesn't affect my microphone as badly the sacrifices. I have to make I
We couldn't hear it before
Um, that's the interesting thing as far as I'm aware you guys can't hear it
But the people on the stream definitely can you can definitely hear it whenever I listen back on streams
You can just get a sort of
paint noise in the background
And
Yeah, it's it's beneficial to to the world if I just buy boil all good though
Okay, you know, we probably would open with discussing a bit about far from home
But uh feels bad the right rags will see it
Eventually, we can go spoiler free for a little bit if you guys want. Yeah, um, I liked it
Did you two like it?
Yes, it was a movie it was a movie it was good. Yes, it was a good widget movie
Uh, I am totally aligned with Jeff on that one. Like it was a good movie and not a great spider-man movie
Well, I mean, yeah, we probably can't go much further without getting it into sort of spoilers even in the vaguest of
Yes, just like this. It was light. It was fun. It was funny and the humor worked
But it doesn't after watching something like Endgame or even Ant-Man and the Wasp last year
This movie feels very almost inconsequential. Just you know, you don't need to see it. Oh
I thought Ant-Man and the Wasp was really inconsequential
Agree
Yeah, it is but it had a few moments that built towards something with Endgame this obviously Endgame's over but there's like nothing
With this movie. Anyway, never mind. I don't want to spoil anything. Mm-hmm
Yeah
I figured that it would be a good framing to say like any any judgments we try and make or at least points
We try and make will have to be irrelevant of far from home not only for rags sake but just so that I don't know we
Just pretend that we would having this conversation before far from home was really
Nice to go. Yeah, Michelle was much better in the second movie. She was I she was oh, yeah, she was better
It was agreed
Tom Holland was better
There was definite improvements. So
Yeah, I guess we just like I'm just giving people time to
Jump in before we start but maybe we could talk about how we're gonna approach it, you know
There's there's so many different things to attack first. I imagine people you guys are gonna jump to
spider-man's character first and foremost
We picture that but do we want to talk a bit about
I
Mean it just makes sense to sort of start here cuz I think this is gonna come up
So how would would you would you guys say that it's a poorly written film homecoming?
No, no have a very very average
Either one of you's did you want to say anymore?
Yeah, I did I don't want to you go first Jeff. I don't want to step on you. I was gonna say is I have I
Watch a lot of bad movies for fun
So I've definitely experienced a lot of poorly written films like samurai cop movie makes no sense at times
spider-man homecoming
Aren't from beginning to end it's logical I just
Like dislike but like on the most basic level it it's a movie that works it's not broken
I don't go I mean, there are some internal logic issues based on like other MCU stuff, but you know, I
Don't know how much of the score I would take off based on those things
Okay
Gary
okay, so
Rich movie I have no problems with like plot holes or anything like that and
a
Logical discussion because of my emotional attachment to this character from the age of four years old and
feeling like I know this character better than I know some of my family members and
Yeah, like objectively it's
Just a very average movie, but again, I feel the same way
As far from home is it like it doesn't?
Impact me very much and but some of the decisions made with the character. I just absolutely
hated and
It was part of Tom Holland's performance that I hated so but actual writing story progression
Not that's not the thing. I have the problem with
Figure out how they're building the spider-man universe within the MCU and how I feel like Sony has done it better
in the in the beginning not the latter but and
It feels like the MCU is making conscious decisions to make changes to a character that they're gonna end up ruining in the long run
Because there's there's long-term effects to these changes they're making and then unless they just want to make a couple movies and be done with them
And then that's whatever and which maybe they might be doing I figure since we're these are almost like opening statements
Do you want to what rags what's your take on homecoming? Just so everybody gets a good like
B thing before we go
well, I think homecoming is both objectively and subjectively for me and the top three of the MCU I
think it's one of the best written of the MCU movies in terms of all the details that make it come together and
All of logical consistency of the events that occur in it. I think Tom Holland is a fantastic spider-man
I think he really captures of this this kind of youthful
Yearning kind of character who looks up to people and you learns along the way
I really really enjoy
Homecoming think it's really solid
All right, and then yeah for me. I just think it's a
Extremely well-written film for the MCU. There's an expectation that superhero movies have to be of a
But of a lower standard you get you get a lot of people being like, oh, it's just a superhero movie
The same thing with Star Wars. I'm not a huge fan of that attitude. It's like that these things
they can be elevated to a certain degree and like it's no secret on this street, but one of my favorite if not my favorite superhero
movie is Civil War and
Spider-man homecoming comes below it in the MCU, but it is literally second
I've I'm surprised by how much I pay attention to homecoming that I'm rewarded through a
Lot of what is essentially the cause and effect how everything lines up how it sits in the MCU and how it tries to
Solve a lot of the MCU's problems in a meta sense
So like if you guys remember this was this was post like phase three or during phase three where a lot of the complaints were
That the villains in the MCU suck. Yeah, none of the films really recognize that they're in a universe together
They all seem to ignore each other
Like the characters that are not really seen or the the the events of one film don't really affect another and
Soundtracks are typically considered very like cookie-cutter or interchangeable and this movie took a lot of steps to try and
Let's say evolve the the films and then while maintaining the strengths which being that there's a is a hero's journey of a sort
Occurring in the in the film that has a nice progression that leads a character from one position to another one
through a lot of adversity and
fuck do I love vulture as a
Great not only a villain that has just great motivation, but one that's created by the events of the MCU
In a very realistic down-to-earth. I would call way
but you know that I am very fully aware that a lot of people hate homecoming and
I think all the four of our takes have both upset and pleased the people in chat already and
this part of why we're having this debate is because
Every time we tried like praise homecoming we get this surprise avalanche of like what the fuck is wrong with you homecoming is terrible
I think a lot of people think it's the worst spider-man
incarnation in a movie
What are you guys?
That's the thing I think the worst spider-man movie I've seen is probably amazing spider-man 2 if we're looking at
The broken film. It's really bad
But killed the horrible in every way. It's the last time I've had nerve rage inside of a theater and walked out
Oh, yeah, I stopped my wife. Yeah, I got mad in there. I was so mad at the end of that
I was laughing a little early. This is probably the fact that the connection we have to spider-man is probably different
I was just like well this this this iterations ruined
It's like not that I didn't think of a despite about what was that particularly good, but it was better than the second one
But at least I that was my take
Great. I'll go. I'll agree with that one. It's a very low bar, but yes
But yeah, we I guess I guess we'll just try and move on some criticisms so where do you guys want to start?
I give you the floor
And unless you want me to start like we can do it either way I could talk about what I think is something good
And you could criticize it or vice versa
I'll just start out here. I'll start again with it. This is gonna be hard for me to judge
Objectively, I don't know if I even judge any movie objectively. I'm a I'm an emotional gut person and
Again spider-man. I've been a fan my entire life. I sold the comics. I've read the comics
I literally forgotten a lot of them too because of you know drugs in the 80s, but
It's something that has been a connection
I've had a connection to this character through good times and bad through many many years now
I gave up on him in the comic books
Because you know the comic book spider-man is no longer that spider-man either
So, you know, that's something I need to expect that there's a basic logic to the character
There's a very very basic thing to spider-man and Peter Parker. He is the everyman. He does not win
He does not get help
He is very grounded in that way. And that's why so many people like him. He doesn't have a babysitter
he doesn't get a bunch of tech because he doesn't need it because he's smart on his own and
There's a lot of reasons he can't join other superheroes or have a girlfriend or have a normal life
Because he is a kid trying to work
Bury things out and it's the first time and that's why it connected with so many people at that age
Because they think you know as a kid, by the way
I'm very against this as an adult being able to see yourself and identify with a character
I think as an adult you should be able to just enjoy a character that's presented to you. But as a kid
Yeah, I don't totally saw myself in the mask and when I was running around my first visit to San Francisco
I was pretending to web all the buildings when I was like seven years old and I was swinging through the streets
That was spider-man to me. This is a
This is a Disney version of spider-man it's a
Disney
XD version of spider-man and that's
You know, so that's a built-up resentment
I'm gonna admit that for and nobody's gonna be able to talk me out of that by the way because
You fundamentally change the character. It's the same problem. I have with Star Trek you fundamentally change something. It's not that thing anymore
Her man label they don't even use the right logo. So they got a couple things right in homecoming
I'll admit that but for the most part the character is completely wrong
So you'd say it would be unsuitable to label him spider-man. Yes, cuz yeah, I'll get into particular criticism
There's one big one I have that actually people argue with me on but I can't stand it. Yeah, that's okay
So would you be a partial to the to the to the counter that I would say you're right
He's not the spider-man from the comics. He is the spider-man from the MCU
Yeah, I understand that argument, but you would think that the MCU would be the one place to get him pretty close to right but
Right, but what is right?
Sam Raimi in film Sam Raimi spider-man is close, but it's it's not that close and spider-man is not like Batman there hasn't been
Nine teen different versions of a based on the artist and the writer
Spider-man's been pretty much was pretty much the same
from when Ditko left to
God the 90s and then they started messing with him a little bit and Todd McFarlane came in
I thought did some very good work with him and
but he's
Character-wise has been the same for a lot was a
Decades decades now, you know with Batman you can argue Bruce Wayne has been a different Bruce
Well because they've changed the realities many different times
But it Peter Parker spider-man has been the most consistent character throughout comics because he's honestly the easiest they over complicated it
So you would think you would get something better in the MCU so is it my expectation?
Yes, but I think I think that's a lot of comic book fans
And even even if you just watch spider-man the animated series, which got the character, right?
It's very inconsistent and he's too young
So I guess the the problem is twofold first is that I'm not a hundred percent convinced and maybe we'll have this conversation
That he is too dissimilar from the primary traits that Peter Parker spider-man should have but aside from that
I'm not sure that he has to have those things if someone is trying to do what you would call
Adaptation or interpretation of this character in in a universe that isn't built for him
It's built for this this, you know movie series of characters
and so if he's to arrive he needs to slot in with purpose sort of thing as opposed to
you know, there's a lot of different ways they could have placed him into the MCU, but I'm suggesting that
He is as a result of the world that he is in as well as who he is as would be applied to all of them
like there'll be concessions slash
Adaptations to all of the characters that change them from their comic counterparts to account for the world's they're in like
the one I usually bring up is that I'm aware of the comic book vision of Civil War storyline and I
Do not like it compared to the film and so if someone was to tell me it's like they're not faithful
Therefore they shouldn't call it Civil War. It's not
It's it's not it's not good or it's not it's not Civil War. It's not Captain America. I just be like, okay
It's it's their vision
And to say it's not the comic book spider-man to me doesn't necessarily matter
I would just be like is it is it still functional? Is it still well written? Does it still have the
required elements that allow it to tell its story of a hero becoming or a kid becoming a hero is what I would consider this
template of a spider-man story, but if you'd like to we can get into
What elements of spider-man's character? Do you think are missing from homecoming? Oh
I just wanted to say to jump off a Gary's point the what spider-man lacks in the MCU is
If they made Batman movies without his parents getting killed one thing. I think a lot of people and it's not just comic book
It's every adaptation pre Disney. It's always this guilt complex, you know, the great power the responsibility
I made a mistake. I have to pay for it through my superheroing
MCU spider-man has no guilt has no responsibility
Like modern-day social media people just everything is oh, it's no big deal and we just kind of gloss over it and don't have any struggles
Spider-man is built on struggles. That's in the character. He's supposed to be beaten down with life
In this one, it you know, well, hold on. I can't say that fine in homecoming when he faces adversity
Iron Man swoops in to save the day when the trolley you're not the trolley the fairy gets split in half
To take care of that stuff on his own other heroes don't just swoop in and take care of it
You know
He's supposed to get through the event and then go home and you know have his light shut off and be hungry and this and that
Just all the aspects of the character from every form of him just isn't there, you know
Superficially, it looks like spider-man and it's this modern
Deadpool light spider-man that people have been writing for about ten years or so. So you get that but
And the deeper themes that's just always been there it's like you could say well
It's great that he lifted the rubble in the basement and that's you know reminiscent of the master planner saga
Yeah, but the the internal struggle of the character outside of that one moment's never there
It's just there's so many things that this spider-man
Fails to hit for somebody who's been reading
In comics since I could read I learned to read from comic books and spider-man has always been a consistent thing up until about four
Years ago didn't really miss issues now spider-man's unreadable
Just like all of Marvel and that's when my problem comes to jump off Gary like they just you know
this Disney vacation of spider-man
See these movies out of you know responsibility for our channel, but you know of the enjoyment and it's not really there anymore
What about that third act then because you said Iron Man swoops in to save the day?
That actors is all pizza on his own with his own tech and his own decision to pursue the hero life
expensive his social life I
Like that, but see we're under the guise of we gotta we can't acknowledge the next thing
Stuff MCU stuff there's no certain characters face no real repercussions
Would you say Peter's one of them
Yes, I would the Guardians face no repercussions
It's like group sacrifices himself and guardians
You know the we are a group moment and then at the end of the movie he's reborn is the little baby group
And he just it's just all fun and light-hearted, and that's nothing wrong. There's nothing wrong with that
I
Mean there's degrees of consequences right because I'm assuming you're on board with the idea that there are still
consequences as a whole like Iron Man and is obviously
Dead now in the universe so that would be a major consequence for his choice to save the world that sort of thing
So we do have it
It's just that you're you're concerned that there's not I guess more consequences or consequences that are equal to the actions that are taking place
Is it in his personal life? I mean, I don't want to sound like I want to watch
You know people be tortured, but that's kind of what spider-man is I I was talking to Gary about this off-air once
I'll just use a comic book reference like he needed money
He found a way to make money taking these weird photos of a science lab and like the radiation destroyed the film
So he goes through this big journey, and you know wins a spider-man, but he's still screwed over as Peter Parker like
best example for me
In the first two rainy films cuz I the third one I acknowledge is not great it has moments of greatness
It's still a pretty bad movie, and I don't hate homecoming. I just don't like this spider-man. I'm not invested. I don't hate him
You know at the end of the second one. It's like he saves the day
beats Doc Ock all the little Doc Ock saccharides himself, but we have these big epic moments and then
He loves go off to the guy. He's mayor
She's gonna get married to and he goes and he sits in an apartment
And he just accepts that now yes, she does come back, and they have their moment together
But you know the first issue of appearance of spider-man
He walks off into the sunset or the the moonlight defeated after uncle Ben had been killed and all this stuff
He doesn't have these big wins
You know he gets defeated by the scorpion the vulture beats and all these people beat him it takes time
I understand these are thematic things these are movies, but we just
Too light-hearted. I'm not saying he needs to be serious, but
balance it better
um so it almost seems like there's you want him to you have consequences to a particular degree because I was gonna say like
There are a lot of things that happen in the film that are definitely
They're detrimental to his life. Thanks to his choices of trying to become a hero like I'm not trying to be condescending
It's like okay, so you got the he keeps losing social capital in favor of pursuing like criminals and stuff
And fighting crime you get like lines from Ned
With disappointment and like the whole like I guess we're just still losers and how like all of the people in his
Class don't take him that seriously, and they're like like like Liz. I think says
You know the last line in the film where she's like you say sorry a lot. What are you even sorry for like?
He's not taken very seriously anymore because he's unreliable and he constantly pursuing other things
He drops like four of his different classes in school. He almost gets expelled
There are a lot of elements that are that are definitely affecting his life like
Aunt May is distraught because of the fact that there's no idea where the hell he's going or what he's doing
They're all very low scale
compared to something like him losing someone or or I don't know getting like a permanent injury or
losing a house or something like that, but
The idea being that the film is relatively small scale in general
And that I think that the bigger losses for this version of spider-man is going to come once he's once he's older
Cuz right now he's easy 15 in the film
Thank 15. Yeah, yeah, and all that stuff really matters when you're 15. It's very important to him
He loses obviously his chance with Liz is gone. Thanks to his choice to take down vulture
But
We act like the his interaction with Liz is actually important because the audience knows
Well, whatever name is Michelle character
Home or far from home outside of it, you know, she's interested. We can see that's gonna come along
It I feel like he does have certain consequences, but it's like
It's okay. There's some silver lining. He's gonna you know, he's gonna land on his feet and be okay
Yeah, no, I mean I was gonna say that's
and as for Liz like I think it'd be fair to say that nobody knew exactly what was going on unless you had like matter information in
your pocket because
We didn't know her name was MJ until the end of the film again, assuming you didn't look into casting
Voices and labels and stuff and that isn't Liz an actual love interest in the comics
or
Not really relevant. I mean there in the very beginning
Betty branch he's an early on character when it was I mean, you know when it was more soap opera II and
60s comic
But nothing major more important
Yeah, so all I'm trying to suggest was that there was there's plenty of groundwork to assume that that could have been a relationship and
Spider-man lost it in favor of becoming a superhero or choosing that life over his
social life several times
Okay, so in homecoming
Stating the consequences are there
But the superhero consequences that the overarching thing
That's the biggest problem here is there's a bunch of things
I have a problem with and I have a I have more of a problem with Aunt May being hot and young
Now than I did even when I first saw the movie because I think that really takes away from his character again
And there's little things etching away at his character. So yeah, he there's a big battle at the end, right?
But it's kind of dark bad special effects gobbledygook to be honest with you
I didn't get much out of it. I just thought it was really dark and blurry and I watched it again right before here and
Not super well done. I like the vulture. I thought he did a great job, but you know the Iron Man
two particular things that really bugged the hell out of me were with Jeff when he when Iron Man swooped in and saved him
saved him from ripping the ship being ripped in half and then chastising him and then him being trapped and
talking to Karen in the suit that
That that scene bugs the hell out of me where he's asking
You know girl advice with it from his female AI that spider-man would never have it's so out of character
And I know it's from ultimate spider-man. I'm gonna hear the arguments. I know that I've read ultimate spider-man
And it's not the best version of spider-man it's okay, but it's very much
Wouldn't there be an argument there for your picking and choosing what you think is the authentic or great spider-man versus what is?
You know presented to us by the IP and then and then the same argument could be made
but I don't care about spider-man, so I mean, but the biggest difference is is
Hardcore fans were the ones who spread the word of mouth and we're also the ones who know the most about the character and
When they they definitely want to please everybody I understand that so I go into a movie
I don't expect to get the perfect version of spider-man and comic books
It's I that's never gonna happen. It's an adaptation, but I'm big on spirit of the character
Big big on spirit of the character. This is why this Peter cries too much. He whines too much
I've never I can't Jeff help me here. Maybe in ultimate spider-man. He cried a lot
That's like teenage drama bullshit
And and and Jeff and I have had this conversation
he was a teenager for a very small percentage of time in the comics and I am
Listen the one thing they did right. I'm glad we did not see uncle Ben get shot again. Thank God
I mean, thank you and
Another thing they got right is they played the actual theme before the movie
So I was fired up when this thing started, but it kind of went, you know a downhill
Just yeah quick note
You do prove in the right films though
To approve yes, I understand Toby cries in that as well. I'm not a big fan of that but
If you look back
When spider-man is is crying he's crying in the rainy films when somebody dies when spider-man is crying in homecoming
He's out of fear
He's fit here. It's wait. That's so
What what what senior referencing just so I know?
Um, and that's the argument I always get he's 15. Okay, I was 15
Okay
So
Okay
What are you talking about the scene where he's without me because I would happily
With the scene where he's all crying. He's oh no. No when he's lifting up the thing
Yeah, that's you know
And also I had a problem with him crying in infinity war two
I did when he's almost dying when he's crushed by the the turbine thing. I think it's bad that he's crying there
Yeah, I couldn't take it
Okay
Really traumatic thing to happen to someone of that age with those stakes involved
This brush with mortality is probably really really emotionally
He's already had brushes with mortality. Oh gosh
Okay again, yeah, I was gonna say like
He's he's his kids and he's about to die. Like I don't know I if I'm about to die
I'm probably gonna tear up myself if I'm being completely honest with you even at my age
And I don't know about that. That's a strange argument. I I'm just a cold hard asshole, but
Yeah, when I was 15, I was I was in some pretty tough situations when I was 15 actually and I didn't cry
I guess spider-man can either well, so to rewind the first thing you said when you
The brave care he you know it may be afterwards maybe if somebody's dying but for his own fear
Maybe if they put in a context that like he's more worried about like Aunt May or something like that. Sure
But for himself no, he would power through that
Well, he did
That's why I don't like the decision of him being a kid again either
So that might be on top of that's power through it
But yeah, I don't know it's yeah, basically Michael you're right
No, I it's just it turned me off personally. I was like, you know, that's he's he's really whiny
And you know and I liked him a lot in Civil War by the way
I thought he was very good in Civil War
But I think what they set up there never happened for me personally in homecoming
So to move away from the crying thing the first thing you said when you because you you brought quite a few criticisms
Oh, you said that aren't may being hot is a problem for his character. I'm curious what you mean by that
Okay, this is gonna sound crude y'all sorry
Okay
So what how that may be that may being elderly was again important to his character because he had this constant level of worry
May that was kind of his highest priority for for the longest time is what's aunt may gonna think, you know
She's always having these health problems. He's you know, and and listen there
I remember in the 90s people were hoping she would die
People were wanting her to die and they eventually did do it
People got tired of the aunt may thing for the longest time and sometimes they go long periods of time
You know without mentioning it very much either
But that's an important part of the character making her young and making her younger is fine. I
But young and hot
It's it's funny at first and again, I didn't realized I minded it that much until actually after I saw the second movie
It's more of a second movie thing with me, but it bugs me a little bit
I think again, it takes away from the character. It takes an important part away from the character because he has this huge generation gap
So she does not understand a lot of the things he's going through even when he's in his 20s
so I think you know now we have this cool hippie mom who's getting hit on and
You know, yeah, it's just a weird element that I
Didn't like very much. But again, maybe I'm old-fashioned. Um
So for me
I was just happy to just to see a different vision and see how it's gonna affect the storyline cuz like
I think the biggest tell for me that I was like, oh, this is not the aunt May that uh, I was expecting in a
Relatively positive light was when he says
He's trying to he's trying to bullshitter about the what happened with the fairy and she just says cut the bullshit like give me what actually
Happened. I was just like oh shit. This aunt May's like on the ball. She's not just gonna be like Oh Peter
Okay, which means she's gonna figure out II spider-man with everybody else and
Well, so it gets them to have very grounded conversations very quickly
There's this there's this element of she knows but you just said like she's supposed to have a generational gap
Well, I would argue that I prefer that she understands him
She she she talks about how like him sneaking out every night
Isn't something that's necessarily worrying her because it's something that she used to do
but she wants to know the truth about what he's doing wants to know what's happening because she's obviously very concerned for his life and
I just like that they have a relationship with it very close and that she is essentially his mum
Like a young mum. The thing is we have to remember she looks young for her age
She's still I'm not sure what cannon age she is in the film, but isn't Marisa Tomé in like mid 50s
She's just really early 50s. So she's like 30 years older than the actor Tom Holland
Yeah, so that'd be like how my mom and I are 30 years age difference
Which you know, there's still a relatively significant distance. You can you can definitely generate
Yeah, it's still it does. I'm used to elderly Aunt May again. This is an old-fashioned thing, but
it
Really makes a difference with the character and it's not something you can really explain unless you've read it for
Many many years and that's that's where the rift is
you brought the whole uh
Well, that's fine. You talked about, you know exposing a secret identity. They took that away. That's such a
Part of his character it goes into play with you know, and may not knowing this person not knowing
instead of her being able to sympathize and relate we're supposed to be like
Is there the reader you're supposed to go if only he could say this one thing all of his problems would be solved
But if he says that one thing everyone's lives are in danger. They took that away
Have they literally it wasn't there to be told yeah, they have I
Mean nothing there to take it away
You have to have it to take it away
It was never even the character. I'm trying to get at that
Took away. I don't care about the character. What I care about what's in the film
I'm getting like what I guess what Rags trying to say is like the the she's not
You're sort of judging her based on what she is in the alternate version, right?
I'm judging like like well, I guess it's just another point that I agree with Gary about why I'm not a big fan of it
Okay, it's not always meant to relate like we're
It just is the character in any in any iteration worse. The audience is supposed to be doing to relate with them
Well, see so like in this iteration
I don't think Aunt May is as important or at least as explored currently as she may probably is in the comics or in
Well, I'd have to rewatch the Raimi films. I can't remember how important
She's just meant to be like something. He's like responsible for it to protect
Things she's like his moral center. We'll see like in the part two when she or Parker is like old spider-man killed the Sandman
She's like spider-man doesn't kill secretly. She knows who he is type of thing like you're supposed to imply it not
Yeah, no, I imagine
They'll be doing more with her one spider-man is an adult in this continuity
Like for now, he may have very well have to protect
Does that validate this movie? Well, they're gonna do it in the future. No, it's me saying
This is the thing did they do anything great did they do anything with caps parents in his movie?
Is that a detriment to his story?
Those parents aren't even a character
Yeah
Your fundamental character stuff and I mean it's great and fine to look at this as an objective film
But it's a franchise we're talking. This is multiple spider-man movies in this is Marvel who is running this thing with in conjunction with Sony
But you have aunt May for a large portion of times was scared of spider-man
that didn't like spider-man and
Now all of a sudden she's like knows about it and that she's cool Aunt May and she'll probably go skateboarding with them later
And it takes away from the character completely spider-man is supposed to be essentially a lone
Lone for the longest part that's the most effed up thing. That's why it's kind of cool
You know his relationship with Johnny Storm a little bit. That's why he would get some relief
He'd be able to talk to somebody or even daredevil later on
And and they don't know him as Peter for the most part except for Matt, but
and
And he stood he feels isolated as hell
It's a major part of the character and that's why we we love him because secretly he is like the baddest ass in the Marvel
Universe and nobody knows it
Don't think he's a bad guy and I'm going way back with this. This is fundamental to spider-man
so if we just want to look I'm I'm looking at spider-man widget objectively over here sure it's fine, but
It really isn't you're not seeing the best version of this character and it's disappointing because this is from Marvel if it was
Universal producing this film. I'm because it's pretty good version. Yeah sure this Marvel
So yeah, I don't think it's wrong of any fan or me to have expectations with a spider-man film
Which we've seen plenty of films for so I think that absolutely plays in to how you judge this film
You it's not apocalypse now. It's not a separate film. It's part of a franchise. We already got a sequel
Okay, which again they made a couple improvements on all of it. Is this an attitude we maintain for everything. That's an adaptation
Everything no, no, it's I would say with certain things that are that transcend
Like Star Trek transcends that's American mythology spider-man is American mythology if it's just like an
Adaptation of
Like your latest ugly even the expanse and stuff. I wouldn't take it that seriously Lord of the Rings. I would take stirrs
Thane I'm not saying it makes sense. That's just what it is for me
So
You you would have I'm assuming you would have a sort of rule set for when an adaptation must be faithful versus non-faithful
But with spider-man, I would make that like it's a rare exception. Usually I'm pretty I'm not like
Crazy about getting something right but I'm the character of spider-man
I don't even expect like them using the Jitari the technology to create the vulture. I am fine with that is a great idea
I thought that was really well done. That was a good way to bring in
Like admittedly a very silly character that I liked in the comics that works great in the comics
That does not work very well in a live-action film thought that was a very good decision
His leap from I'm going to I'm like kind of the
Guy who got screwed over by the corporation to murdering one of his people eight years later
I mean he did that max that was that was yeah
But he wasn't too sorry about it and he's like you're the you're the shocker now, I mean
Tough but I was okay with that was like fine fine and
Yeah, Michael Keaton was one of the good things about it. So that's that's me
Not minding a major change from the comics and being reliant again on the MCU. I thought that was a good thing
That's an example of a good thing. When how do you just like define when the changes of battle good? I
Define it when it comes to the actual character of the comic and how it speaks to me personally because I can't I don't I
Can't speak for anybody else. I'm not going to try to speak for anybody else. This is for me personally. Okay, and
And how it it fundamentally misses like I've said
Some of the characters it's a version of Peter Parker
That's not even that close to the ultimate version to be honest with you
The reason I said that about about caps parents theoretically, right is because we could have MCU to or you know
A TV series that reboots everything and cap story could be dependent on parents that guided him into being the man
He is and Tony Stark story could literally never mention his parents and you might say something like well
That would be comics inaccurate while I would be like, oh, well, I mean, let's see what they do with it
Let's see how it goes in this continuity of spider-man
Aunt May and Uncle Ben are not as important as someone like Tony Stark to Peter's life or at least Peter's pursuit as a superhero
Is that worse or is that different?
That's it's worse. It never becomes his own man
Doesn't he? Oh
Go watch. I don't care about the next one. You have to still watch it. He's he's still not his own man
He is not his own man. He never becomes his own man. He's a shadow of that even
Thematically, he doesn't become Peter Parker, you know his own identity. He's still Tony Stark light the world needs him to be that
Disney needs him to be that it's all about trying to replicate
It's brand longevity. These movies are pop culture fast food in and outs better than McDonald's to some people
Maybe it's got holler higher quality meat, but it's still the same thing these this spider-man is not
You know this is a piece of filmmaking
Okay, you know, so
I
assumed like in the film
Iron Man rescuing him from drowning and Iron Man fixing the ferry for you guys crossed the line in terms of taking his agency away
Think of a train scene from spider-man 2. No one is there to back him up
He does it through his own will and he basically passes out from exhaustion. That's his journey. That's his thing
That's him saving the day for the third act of homecoming
The third act of homecoming didn't what it didn't land for me a story wise that made sense
It wasn't a very good scene because it wasn't well directed. It was too dark
I didn't like the some of the effects some of them were fine
But I couldn't really it was just gobbledygook and honestly, I've seen it twice now and I barely remember it
Man is the gold standard of comic books. You should not be making
Subpar at average mcu-ish movies. This will be completely forgotten
Homecoming will be a blip compared to spider-man 2 in 10 years. Why I disagree. I'm not forgetting
I disagree too. Um, my two favorites are spider-man 2 and homecoming
Spider-man movies, um, so
The the idea is argue it's already a blip. I think a lot of people it's uh, it's kind of forgotten
That's that's fine. A lot of you like what you like. I understand that people people might forget
What you like
so
Like like the idea that I'm trying to sort of gear us to the topic of
Him being his own his own man as as jeff put it
Well, you brought up the third act and then we went to it's too dark and the effects weren't great
Yeah, well, yeah trying to keep steaks dirt me on talk is like herding cats, man. Good luck with that. It's okay. Uh,
uh, so
Him being his own man
Jeff made the best point he he hasn't become that yet. He won't
Become that uh, he's got one more film. We got one more film with tom holland. That's it
Uh, so we've we or is this whole his journey to become his old man and his old man in the last five minutes
We're gonna get it. Well, that's
Again, that's not spider-man. That's not the one
I uh, i'm a little bit confused because like he's in homecoming. Um
Per I don't know that there's a scene where he does what tony tells him to do
Like did you want to just give me an example
Might not be but the whole it's a shadow put over him is tony. Probably. No, he probably doesn't do everything
tony tells him to do but it's there he's got a suit with an ai his back and disabling it against the rules and
sneaking out and
Clearly violating what tony wants him to do
He still has the safety net from what tony's built for him
And then and he loses it because he doesn't use the power with responsibility
Does lose it but he the fact that it's even there is a problem for me why why
because he's
It's supposed to be his own ingenuity. He's not supposed to bounce like okay
So when tony stark goes to see him in civil war and he's like, this is impressive
Okay, or if we want to talk about like the adaptation in the game where he has so I mean it's 2019
It was 2018 when the game came out. There's going to be technology. I'm not expecting like
A cloth suit and transistor radios like it's 1965. I get that same thing with uh
Building up iron man and making him more modern with the vulture point too. I i'm cool with the chitauri desire in fusion
You have to have it make sense
Uh because stanley and steve ditko didn't know about science
I think it was what was it gary like the magnetic pull of the the earth or whatever has gave the vulture his powers
Like something stupid like that. That's not gonna work. That's when you take too literal
I mean there is a point of too literal but with spider-man, you know some technology like the web shooters that's cool
It's that he's has that but
The doesn't the suit tell him how to get out of that warehouse or how to do this or how to do that
Or how to gauge certain things. Um, he he suggests hacking the security door in the warehouse
The suit just helps him like a calculator would help you even has a calculator in that scene. I think
It's his idea
And that's similar for a lot of his uh interactions with the suit throughout the film
He'll have an idea the suit will facilitate the answer for example
The structural integrity of the building like the washington monument
That's not something that you would know as a human being like it's how long until it breaks
Pretty hard to tell but the suit that and calculated that's like a part of the character here
He would have to basically do it by the seat of his pants. This is an adventure type of thing
Well, the suit creates the ticking clock the suit is like you have this much time
So spider-man has to do it within that time frame
For me another problem with the suit since they took away the internal monologue of spider-man, which is its own thing
The cartoons had it other iterations of the movies had it the suit to me is like the internal monologue
I don't know if I like it. It's almost too literal for some of that stuff
I I don't know. I just think it takes away from him using his
uh
His ingenuity because he has um a crutch in many ways
Okay, I don't know if it takes away from his ingenuity
I was gonna say like the he's still he's given a tool
It's how he uses that tool that makes him who he is as far as I can tell
And the suit is only ever at his beck and call this the suit is waiting on to a
I look at it like this, you know how tony built the suit in the first one in the cave
Yeah, the spider-man technology is that but it's supposed to be rough around the edges. It's not
Sexy thing. I hate the android garfield movies, but at least it's like well
Maybe I order a piece offline or something like I can get that but like to have the the biggest industrialist in history
Provide you with this
I I get it at the end of the movie. He doesn't have the suit and that's fine. I like that but I think
uh, we've seen other films third act spider-man specifically the first one from 2002 where uh,
you know, just to use a phrase the chips are down and he basically
Overcomes it better put like that overcomes it better
Like this, I think from a movie standpoint. It's much more entertaining to
See the personal battle between him and the green goblin in that warehouse and how he's going to do this to mj
And all this stuff and all the themes of the movie come to a close and something
And then to watch the character still lose the thing he wants
Then the third act of this where there's definitely something personal between him and the vulture. Yeah
daughter
well, not just that it's the recognition that um
But like the the whole speech in the warehouse before vulture drops the rubble on him
The fact that he sees them as equals and they're both just trying to achieve something that is going to help the overall
Elements of the world at the expense of people like tony starkle the rich above
and so uh
But but spider-man's principled he's like you're a villain you're a bad guy you're doing x and vulture's frustrated by that
But he's he's just gonna have to put up with it. It's part of why vulture doesn't
You know give spider-man up. It's probably why he doesn't kill him when he has two opportunities to
Vulture's not a bad guy. He's he's he's you could say that he's spider-man on a bad day
You could absolutely force a good character to
Enter into what vulture ends up committing himself to and then he goes too far
Like the idea that he's just doing a cleanup crew
Just trying to make some money and then he ends up uh getting screwed over by tony stark
Making money from the masses he creates
And it creates this working man villain that was only evidence trying to provide for his family
And so there's a there's a level of camaraderie in their goals
but it's the execution that separates them and uh
Obviously the connection with the daughter is important as well
Like political allegory isn't lost either
so
Sorry subtle political I said
Oh good
I there was uh, he's protective again. Peter's kind of protected by an adult in this
And uh, you know, that's the one thing that made him very vulnerable
You know psychologically in the comics. Okay, and this is something you're gonna miss here because the constant
Overarching shadow of tony stark existing is what takes away from it
Yes, he doesn't use his tech at the end
But we know in the back of our minds iron man could fly in any second and save his ass even though he doesn't know
What he's got. Well, we don't know that see we have a doubt
I have a doubt when i'm watching this movie it takes away from the character when he is babysat by tony stark
From the get-go even for a second
Even if they don't use it again, it takes away from the character because I don't buy into it
I don't buy into that. He's all the way on his own
I and listen that again
They already showed him swoop swooping in and they did that to kind of trick you at the end
So he does do it on his own but tony stark's still alive. He's still there
Well, peter literally comes inches away from dying
Is a trick of filmmaking that I personally did not buy into and I don't and I think again
It takes away from the character
Now is this me being stuck on some old-fashioned things that I should just get over it and get you know, and uh, yeah
Maybe I I I but this is how I feel about this movie
They didn't convince me as a lifelong spider-man fan that I was watching spider-man. I was watching disney xd
spider-man
and uh, it's it's nowhere near nowhere near the character in the comic now I again, I don't expect perfection but
We'll see in time but 10 years spider-man 2 will still be remembered as a gold standard of superhero films much less spider-man
And homecoming will be yeah, it was pretty good
That that's that's the most I hear from it. It's pretty good or
My chat most people don't like it. But um, you weren't convinced that he was his own dude in the film
You were convinced that tony was gonna save him at every moment
um
Uh, not that he was gonna save him, but tony's gonna be there in the end
I knew he would get his suit offered back and well also it takes away because we know
But and this plays into the film I know he's going to be an infinity war and endgame these are all
In my head and I know that they can't have any true stakes
Going these sequels and that's something. Well, that's a greater thing with the mcu that that they lose
But uh, yeah, it's it's very much the disney mcu xd spider-man with no real stakes. He's a babysitter
He's got a hot aunt
And he's gonna get the girl
And he doesn't really have um the problems that that spider-man. I read for decades did
He's a personally disables the babysitter protocol
film does
But then he gets well, he continues to get babysat though. We know this is it
Babysitting that tony gave him the suit or is it babysitting that he took it away like which
Man should have made his own damn suit. He did from scratch
He did from scratch
No, tony gave him a suit that he wore at the only gave him a suit because tony is a billionaire genius
Who's been making suits up to this point for a good six years?
Yep
So uh in continuity with the mcu man would have denied the suit. I mean for why you're on out. Why?
Why?
Uh, because he doesn't want anything to do with tony and that would uh, maybe i'm just trying to read out the why
Because it would be better for the character
So i'll argue that would not want the suit from tony because it would be bad
That continued being a problem in the sequel because he continued being
Babysat, you know, why why would deny this to be better for him?
Uh
Making a suit on your own. Uh as I would tell my son
It's much better to make something on your own than get but if you're out there trying to help people and save people's lives
And make the world a better place and someone says here's a suit that lets you do all of okay
Okay, they should do that in the comic and then that would totally uh, I don't make the character so much better
i'm talking I and I don't uh and I do
So I care about the comic and I can and actually it does
It's absolutely connected the film because it does sit in marvel on the film
so we want to try to adapt this character as much as possible because the one that's from the comic is the one that's
Been popular for five decades not tom hall and tom hallen will be gone in the next two to three years
And there'll be a new spider-man
And uh, we will see if sony even allows them
To uh, they had this movie has to make a billion dollars and marvel gets to have a say in the next movie
If it doesn't then it is a sony movie
And he starts teaming up with venom and it goes into crap, but I digress you are
No makes complete total sense in the universe in every possible way
Uh, but because it's an outside source it
Is bad
I'm talking about character. I'm not talking about making sense of the universe. I'm talking about what I personally buy as a character
I don't care what anybody else thinks
Uh, this is for me why I don't buy into this character because it he's baby sat
He's got a person holding his hand
Too many damn people know who he is
The way fundamentally for the character of spider-man who is supposed to be an isolated
Superhero supposed to be a secret badass you the audience are supposed to be the only one who knows that spider-man kicks ass
People think he's a villain
Um people most for a good part the cops think he's a villain jay jameson thinks he's a villain uh aunt may doesn't like him
Doesn't like him
Uh, yeah, these are important things that they taken away
Oh just if you if you can, what would you be telling us right now?
If you'd never read a spider-man comic and you'd only seen the movie spider-man homecoming
I would probably have been
Bored. I mean like the only thing that really made me buy into the movie at all is because I am a spider-man fan
The movie didn't move the needle for me. Like I said, it's logical. It makes sense
a goes to be pretty nice and it was like a very bland peanut butter and jelly sandwich that
Spent me. Uh, it made me it took away my hunger for a little while then it was completely forgotten
Wait, are you the mall? Are you the one that dislikes aquaman?
Uh wolf hates it. I think I I think it's bad, but I find it funny
The thing is like
I'm not an aquaman fan, but I enjoy the movie. I guess I would have the same experience
That was what you're trying to get from gary is
Uh, I know who aquaman is and he's underwater and that's about it. I don't
Don't
Care about the minutia of the character
But I am also a big spider-man fan. That's why i'm in the theaters for this stuff
That's why I skipped into the spiderverse
Because I read the spiderverse crossover from a couple years ago and I stopped buying comic books
So why would I go support something? You know, it makes sense like I get
What you're trying to get out from gary and i'll give you my uh answer like oh, yeah, aquaman
That's how I feel about it. And so I like that for what it is, but it
Was a much bigger grander picture spider-man if I never watched spider-man
It's there are points of fun
But there are just points of very just plain
Uh, the action is not really anything I haven't seen before. They're very small movies. That's a problem with mcu movies. They're
Maybe there's an allotted budget for a year or whatever how it works internally
We don't know everything and certain movies feel very small and it's not always to the benefit
I mean spider-man doesn't look very good and you brought up the music. I thought the ramones was a very
Cliched choice you see in all these other coming of age teen movies
It's just on all these different levels. I dislike the movie even comparatively the other ones. I just find it to be
plain at best
um, if I was to concede that it's uh unfaithful or um
downright disrespectful to fans or fans understanding of spider-man
Um if I was to be on that team
I still wouldn't follow that it's a poorly written film or even a poorly written character
So I like this is the thing when it comes back to comic arguments. I'm sort of stuck
Like okay, because I haven't read the comics so I can't counter you guys. Um
But when you talk about like fundamental aspects of spider-man's character like learning that with great power comes great responsibility
Balancing his life as spider-man versus peter parker having consequences in his social life for the actions
He takes as a superhero. I'm like, yeah, all of that's in homecoming
Yeah
What no, uh, actually it's some of it's in homecoming and some of the some of it's not now, um
I don't know. Yeah, it's been a long time since i've been in high school. So and I didn't like it then
uh
on high school movies I
uh
Try it's impossible. Like I said, it's impossible for me to look at something
Objectively that spider-man because I've you know
That I can't pick what you guys are have been into all your life
But I would ask you to to challenge yourself to truly look at that objectively and you'll find out you can't
You can't if you're invested in something since you were four or five years old. You might think you can but uh, I can't
I thought I could when I was you know younger too, but uh,
If that's a failing in your part then to give an example like
You know how invested i'm in buffy and angel, right?
But with this reboot that was baited if they did make a black buffy and then they have all the other characters and they're all
Just complete caricatures or insults to what they were in the source material
Um, I would be making arguments for why it's it's poor within universe
And if someone was curious like I could bring in arguments
It's like the difference between my arguments with tyrian in season four game of thrones. It's like yeah, i'm heavily invested
Uh since I was I believe it. I think I was older than four
I think I was six or seven when I first saw buffy
But like I would I would love it, but i'd absolutely be able to
This was the first few episodes. Yeah, I was not allowed. I I was I was watching when I wasn't supposed to be watching
Puppy when I was six. I was watching like freaking hr puff and stuff when I was six
My sisters were watching it. I was like, I want to see the cool show about killing vampires. Um
But yeah, so if they were to ruin and destroy and disrespect everything, um, I would still be very it's part of
Why I try what I try and focus on in my channel
I like to try and make arguments that are um irrelevant of
A third party or a meta because a lot of people and i've noticed this in chat
They'll be like armola has a problem with what they did with luke
Um, but he doesn't have a problem with what they do with spider-man
It's like what a what a hypocrite and it's like well in tlj as part of the continuity of the ot
The same storyline they're just continuing it if they were to continue the comics
Uh and completely assassinate spider-man's character
I would be absolutely on you guys's team
But when they've adapted the character if we had a story in a tv show about luke skywalker and they said it was a complete
Adaptation it's got nothing to do with the continuity of the other ones
And it's a story about how he goes from being a hero to a to a cowardly hermit who
Osakes the jedi. I'll be like, well, it could be good. We're we're missing a major
major aspect of peter parker's
Post of character. I mean we're we're see that's the pink
That's another big problem is there's a lack of contents context while i'm thankful
They did not show poor uncle ben getting shot again. A third time would have just been cruel
Um, you need to refer to it. It's a major
Major part of his character and you know, they kind of lightly go over his parents
But that's that's pretty that that goes with the comics. They never you know until much later
Spoke about his parents
All uh and
That's a life-changing moment that they are are they going to bring it up later? I I don't know
Um, but you we kind of get peter parker midstream
So if again as uh as i'll be i'll be honest. I I can't
I don't look at things. Uh
Objectively that are spider-man films. Okay, because i was gonna say like in this vision
We're gonna look at it. Absolutely objectively i'll try to dig down because I can turn off all emotions
I have this superpower ability to turn off emotions and look at something completely objectively, which i'm sure
So many people can do
Um, it's a it's a boring movie
Well, it doesn't matter if many people do or not. It's a boring movie
Um, so like the the ramie movies mary jane watson is very important
But she's not in the amazing spider-man movies because she's just not in it
Uh, gwen stacy's important to those movies, but gwen stacy's not in the mcu movies because again
She's just not in it. Um to say any element of a character just has to be there
That's in the form of a person
I would say you're almost restricting it in terms of being able to
Evolve as a piece of media. The idea that uncle ben isn't more important is is
You're arguing for a change not necessarily a better thing that that we're we that's something we still have to learn
I mean maybe that'll help your argument. I don't know. I don't know because we don't know
Well, no, it's very odd that they haven't referred to it
Uh, but I think what they have okay, but uh, they like it's been very light and it's curious
And it's something I didn't even notice until after I watched the second film i'm, oh, hey
They haven't really brought that up at all. So, uh, let's say they had everything that you're looking for, right?
It's it's all there everything you want, but
Right before they released the film they called uncle ben uncle john
Would it still work for you?
Uh
Then change everybody's name on parker and this and that
Okay, so would it work if they called it so i'm assuming you're saying it wouldn't work if they called him uncle john
Oh
So literally just his name being ben makes it better written than his name being john
Yes, because we keep talking about adaptation
Why the hell would you adapt something if you change everything about it make your own movie make a parody movie about something
We just changed his name
It's like when you complain about well spider-man was a black kid
It's not who he is then we should call him ben riley, I mean
Objectively, no, no, no, we should call we should call him
Exactly. So we should call spider-man ben riley. That's the opposite of your point
Actually, no based on your argument if any name can change that doesn't affect the character
That's not fundamental then ben riley was a spider-man for a little while. So you can you can call him ben riley
If that's who that should be objectively. Okay, as long as we get an entertaining movie
No, that's not how it works. Really. So it's not how is it not how it works?
How how exactly is that not how it works?
That's important if ben riley if you want ben riley to be the spider-man then then riley can be spider-man
Yeah miles morales can be spider-man
Yeah, we yeah, we could just make it a spider-man. Uh, if we're gonna change
Yeah, that that makes zero sense whatsoever you can
If you can make a spider-man movie and change everybody's name, it can still be an objectively good movie
Well that yeah, but not a good spider-man movie that depends on but very bad
Well, we again, I wouldn't have a problem with saying that it might not be a good adaptation. That's fine
Um, i'm much more of an advocate for the character sue spider-man
Yeah, like I removing all of the um, let's call it the paint. Um, this is a film about a teenage superhero
learning responsibility
And discovering why he wants to be a superhero through a father figure and mentor
While uh maintaining a social life alongside a superhero life fighting a villain that is very much a reflection of the world around him
You'd be like can we can we have that be spider-man? Yeah, why not?
Um, would it be faithful to an adaptation?
It's like potentially you'd have to you'd have to do a lot of work to make sure it fits in with everything
And if you fail to do the adaptation, which they may very well have happened here. Um
Would it still be potentially well written and that yeah, that's the main thing
I'm advocating for I just want to because the problem here is that um a lot of work in writing might be
Chat on because it's not quote unquote faithful to a degree that that a fan may or may not have wanted
The one I would always bring up is just hill house. It's not faithful whatsoever
Um, but it's a really great piece of work and I would hate if if everyone discouraged the man who made it
Uh from making any content ever again because it wasn't faithful
um
though I I I understand the argument and I think it is it is what we would call disrespectful, uh to claim an adaptation when you're
Not touching the source material at all. I absolutely understand that argument. I think it's fair. I just um,
I want to try and try and look at it without uh, looking at the source material
as if
it has to be that and um
Again, I feel like this is an element of hypocrisy from from the other side
In that the mcu itself is considered to have strong movies and weak movies
But I don't know that any of the films are an accurate adaptation from any of the comics
In the mcu, like you'll have ones that are stronger. Nobody's arguing that nobody's arguing an accurate adaptation
We're arguing spirit of the character. That's what i'm arguing. That would be an adaptation. You haven't heard me bitch about the costume
I mean I could
When you say spirit of the character you're drawing from the source spirit of the character, which is what what drawing from your source material capturing?
Peter parker something they uh, they did excellent in the ramy films
They did excellent in the animated series. They did excellent in spectacular spider-man. Of course, they did it in the comics now
since disney has taken over they have fundamentally changed the character in
A lot of ways, but we're talking about something that's ingrained
Erika mythology it's grained in the memory. We can talk about hill house hill house and compare. Uh, it's it's a very bad adaptation
Uh, I doubt if I asked a five thousand people in san francisco, they would know what hill house was
So it's based on how aware people are
Absolutely, you have to consider off if we're just gonna like this is okay. This is a
An argument of an adaptation and i'm just going to look at this as a film by itself
Well, then go ahead and adapt lord of the rings call gandalf fred
Call the uh, make saron a woman and uh objectively it could be a great movie
Do you think people would call that a great lord of the rings movie? That's our point pretty much. No
No, no
Now you're arguing arguing semantics here. I mean, I think that's what we're doing is we're you know
That is important because a lot of people are conflicting badly written with badly adapted
I didn't say it was badly. I'm not saying you said it boring. I'm saying that's why this conversation is taking place
But the thing is, you know people think what they think and and if they're gonna say it's badly written
I understand that and uh part of they they've they've well, that's cool. Uh, I think it's very blandly written
I don't think it's bad though. I I never said it was bad. Um
I think uh, so many people they made so many changes that people who were long-time fans
Uh, and this is these again these long-time fans are people you need and it's not people you could just need to willy-nilly forget about
Because objectively I want to make something that's fundamentally not spider-man because we're changing all his
Surrounding characters or changing his costume or changing aunt may we're not going to put
J. Jonah Jameson and I mean like essentially it is a completely disney
Fied non spider-man spider-man, which they almost should have just called ben riley or miles morales
Probably would have been more acceptable at this point
I like tom holland and peter parker in infinity war. I like him in end game
I like him in civil war and I liked him. Okay and far from home, but is he like definitive spider-man?
I don't know. I I just know what I see in my chat in all of her comment sections and in jeff chat and sometimes in yours
You know people don't love toby mcguire, but all of a sudden he's gotten popular again
How because people aren't feeling like this spider-man truly resonates
Of course, we're going to have the mcu fanboys and girls out there who are just going to love everything right now
Talk to me in a few years on that one. I've been through this
This is my not my first rodeo with a butt with uh, what doomcock calls hypnosis people get all caught up into it
Uh, and listen, you might have a favorite movie and you just attached yourself to this one. That's fine
I i've done that as well too to some pretty goddamn terrible movies that I love to death that suck and I can't defend
but
If we're going to argue that this is a spider-man film
Uh, I would say it's not a very good spider-man film to look at this objectively again is just arguing semantics at this point
Yeah, I almost feel like we wasted our time mauler watching this one again. Okay. Yeah, um obviously did
The
I feel like I got it all wrong and I am I just need to look at things differently again because I need to be objective about
Spider-man, I wouldn't uh begrudge anybody for not liking it, especially for the reasons of adaptation
That's pretty much what i've been on board with since the start. I've been told again and again and again
Just disappointing by fans that I think it's a well-written film and i'm always confused and like it is a well-written film
And like well, no, it's not don't you see that don't you see and then and then the arguments I hear the most are there's
No consequences for any of peter's actions, which is not true. There's no dichotomy between peter parker and spider-man, which is not true
there's no, um
Idea of peter being his own person
There's no exploration of what he wants and who he is
Which is not true
and if we want to go through these arguments i'm willing to
Because it's all in the film and I feel like it's all in the film, but there was no consequences not within the film
Okay, but the thing is this is a part of a film series. This is an interconnected universe
So we do have to discuss the progression of character and story that have happened in previous films
Because they affect it because when you go to the next film, there are no consequences because of the blip
There's zero consequences. We either we're even missing characters
We still have a babysitter and what a lot of what happened within the frame of far from home
Didn't matter because it was uh, i'm trying to think back jeff
Was it referred to did they refer to anything? Uh with the villains
From homecoming and far from home. No, no, what do you mean?
That that actually happened they don't happen anymore
Well, they're not referenced at all. So I don't know
Are you saying a consequence? There's no consequence the character because it's uh,
Because yeah, he doesn't look like he's changed at all. They don't acknowledge it. So therefore
Let's yeah, let's do this. So what does peter learn in homecoming?
What is peter's journey in homecoming?
Here's journey in homecoming. Uh, he gets uh, well you tell me all right, so peter starts the film
Desperately trying to get tony's attention as well as through happy to go on a mission
The first thing he tells ned is yeah, he's an avenger. That's yeah, that's the way it works. It's done. He's like, oh man
That's so cool. Um, and then he's going out every day according to aunt may and uh, he's he's fighting crime
He's trying to discover things to do. He's desperate to be an avenger to be a superhero to be that guy
The first significant battle he has is against these people with with boosted weapons and uh, he lets them go
There's a big consequence of his action to go and save the person who's running the sandwich shop to the criminals that escape
He's like, oh well the news report the next day as um
They represent. Oh look, we've got a local crime thing happening. Uh, local superhero spider-man and he he picks up
So it saves the day, uh, sort of, you know
He did the best he could and the picture has spider-man with toilet paper attached to his foot
An awkward photo of him coming out of a porta party and peter's disappointed with that
He's like and you get this sense that peter you did you saved the guy. Why are you upset?
Why would you why would that annoy you that? Oh, the news report says you're lame. Who cares you're doing this because you're a hero, right?
Remember civil war his motivation is that uh when you have power and you choose not to help people
Then you may as well have made the bad things happen in the first place
So the film's telling us already in the opening that spider-man's corrupted to a degree in his personality probably thanks to civil war
He's played with the big guys
Got this potential recognition big fan of the avengers and now he's swallowed it too much and all he wants is the recognition
So the film moves on he gets uh, he's still using the suit
He's just trying to get on with his life. I'm trying to draw the connection for this particular journey
So i'm going to skip over a couple of scenes
You get to the um, the washington monument, which by the way is caused by him major consequences for him getting involved in the weapons
Shit that's way beyond him. He doesn't understand how they work. He nearly kills all of his friends
He does save them unbeknownst to tony that it's his fault and he celebrated and on the news report
It shows a celebratory spider-man and he is saying he saved the day the whole school is very happy with him because he's
Here he's walking through the hallways with a big old grin on his face. He's done it
He's achieved the label and then the next scene we see him talking to net or I think it's the same scene
And he's like all I gotta do now is bring in vulture and then i'm out i'm not doing this school crap anymore
I'm gonna be an avenger. He's going upstate with us and net is like, what are you you?
You've already skipped out on all these classes. The principal's like hounding you you're in trouble and he's like doesn't matter
I'm a hero and so peter's getting the wrong idea. This is not why you're supposed to be a hero
He's supposed to be much more intrinsic as a value of saving lives. So then
movie progresses we hit the ferry
And he's approached this scenario where he has the the buyers the sellers and the weapons all in one place that he's managed to find
On his own in fairness to him but against tony's recommendation because tony said the police will take care of it
This is
Not something you're ready for spider-man disagrees
He goes in headfirst and not only does he get all of the enemies prepared?
But the fbi think he's the bad guy so it fucks up everything loads of people get hurt
The water in the cars flying everywhere you see a whole bunch of like civilians getting
Potential i'm not gonna say killed because it would be pretty bad if he actually got someone killed, but it's it's very bad
And tony's like you fucked up
And spider-man says I just wanted to be like you his whole motivation up to this point is the label
He wants to be ironman or tony stark. He wants to be recognized as an avenger and tony's like
You're supposed to be better. You're supposed to be better than the guy who just wants it for the glory
This is why you're irresponsible. You can't have this tech. You're gonna fucking kill people. You're bad. It's not happening. He goes
And then spider-man goes back to being peter parker spends the whole
Next set of scenes in the film doing peter parker things. He's just um, he builds the death star with ned
Both smiling just being friends. He's pursuing liz and actually having some success. He's doing well in classes
Spider-man's gone because spider-man was only you know, you know, he was only going for the label. He's just a hero
He's just he's fucked up. It's over
then he's faced with vulture and
Vulture threatens to kill all the people he loves if he ever gets involved in trying to affect his business ever again
and so spider-man's faced with the idea of
What was I doing this for in the first place? It was to stop bad things from happening. It wasn't about glory
It wasn't about recognition
And so he uses his old suit uses his old tech and he goes without a safety net or recommendations from someone else
And he defeats the hero and at the end of the film
He's given maximum opportunity for recognition. There's the the interview. There's all these photographers or whatever
There's going to be this huge announcement that spider-man is the new avenger and he declines it
He's not interested anymore
The point was to be a hero because it's the right thing to do not because he wanted to get the recognition the label
so the film
is essentially about
Why he's a hero while the second film is about his identity as a hero
But I don't want to go into that for rags to say because I think rags will really like the second film
yay
And we can't yeah, so we'll refer to everything up to that but we're talking about consequences within a multi-layered story here
And again, we can't look at this film by itself
Okay, so what what did I say that is ruined by other?
Okay, what that's ruined the character for me personally, that's what we're talking about here. I'm not talking about anybody else. I don't care
It was talking about what didn't work for me within that or what part was your question
I thought that so from what I said, it sounded like you were saying that um
Something damages that through line if you look at the other films hero's journey
Not necessarily just just what I was describing
But there is a hero's journey in there. There's objectively a hero's journey not spider-man's hero's journey
uh disney's
uh little helper boy
Who who finally came out from under the wings of peter of tony stark to go right back under him again
Uh in the next film he is in but for that moment, yes
He has that moment of independence, but he knows because the specter of this is there
He can call tony whenever he wants whenever the chips are down. He could pick up a phone and call tony stark
He didn't cut he didn't cut uh ties with him
I don't ever want to see you again
That would I would buy that I could buy within the film again. I've made a ton of exceptions with this film
I I you know, I I don't like michelle's mj
But ned and all that and uh the dumb flash that's fine. I'm fine with all that
It's robot. What does it work? I mean i'm gonna swap us to singapore. Hopefully that solves the problem
Who's uh, it was giving you a bit of a robot voice. Do you want to just repeat what you're saying? Sorry
Okay
so
It's it's not a true spider-man hero's journey because the specter of tony stark is always there
We know even though it doesn't happen
All the audience in the back of all of our minds knows that he can if he ever really gets in trouble
Tony can bail him out. That's
Fundamentally not spider-man in any way shape or form
That is not the character of spider-man. You are watching
Uh a widget spider-man
It's it's just not now you might like it
You can't expect me to like it and I know I can't expect a lot of other people
I understand why people if you're just a normie and you walk across this movie
You ate some popcorn. You had a good time rock on good for you
Awesome
But uh, I don't think this is a great film nor do I think it's the worst film ever made
But I think it's a very very bad spider-man film
That's always been my argument always will be my argument because spider-man does not I don't know how many times I gotta say it
Does not rely on anybody. He doesn't have anybody to rely on he is utterly alone in so many times and
Yes, they've changed it in the comics and I hate it in the comics, too
Because it takes away what made him popular
for five decades
we're already seeing that popularity erode now and
You know with the we have to look at it in context with the other films and I can't I don't want to ruin it
for rags, uh the the next film which
I agree. I think he'll enjoy and again, I somewhat enjoyed because i've gotten over
That uh, this is this is not spider-man again, this is nowhere near spider-man. Um
To explain if you haven't been a lifelong fan and you just I mean if you're just
You know, you don't care. That's cool
That's fine. But you can't you know, and there's probably some huge spider-man fans who completely disagree with me and that's fine
uh, but
How do you feel?
well, I mean I
Basically, I don't really need to reiterate a lot of the spider-man points because you know
I think you and I are on the same page
But you know mauler you brought about how you think this is the second best
Written or just your second favorite film in the mcu
For me and at least the four guys on my channel and a lot of our audience like I would put this
Damn near the bottom. I don't think it's a bad broken film
I just feel it doesn't offer anything not even that this we can take the spider-man fan out of me. It just is a very
forgettable bland
Uh safe movie, you know other movies feel like events. Yes part of its marketing, but yes part of it, uh connects to the culture
This and like suicide squad and these other movies just come and go now. This is a better film than suicide squad
I'm, not arguing that but there are a lot of other mcu
The reason I think spider-man
Will feel like a bigger deal in the mcu is because spider-man is the second biggest superhero
Currently in third biggest of all time superman batman then spider-man. Sorry wonder woman fans. That's just how it goes but with
You as a whole you have other movies that like we latch on to culturally that will feel bigger, you know, I personally
Always will believe that the reason iron man is such a big part of this
Isn't necessarily a thematic choice in terms of oh, it's going to make a great story
It's it's going to get people to see our version of spider-man because they're burnt out
Spider-man movies sony has damaged it. Okay with
Garfield movies so like I when I heard iron man was in the film
And this is the thing I went into homecoming expecting to hate it
So I was told by a lot of people that it was very poor
And one of the reasons being that iron man is far too influential in the film and I was like, okay
I could see why he's in it considering civil war, but yeah, I hope this isn't you know
Iron man's film and then spider-man sort of got a bit parks. That'll be embarrassing. Um, but I don't understand
Really that argument after seeing it. I was like, oh he's in the film for about
seven minutes
And it's mostly I wasn't done. Okay
All I was getting at is iron man is the big superhero of this like, you know, the popular culture right now iron man is it
He's passed away it's over and done with but he was it they latched spider-man on to elevate
It was like a hollow product there's no
Uh to me it has some good points, but as a movie
Um other films in the mcu feel like they they have a have more of a purpose
This is a lot like the venom movie where it exists to make money, which most products most movies would exist to make money
But at this at the end of it, it's like, okay. I saw it. I turned off my brain
It was what it was. I'm not thinking about it. Like I had more
Uh thoughts about the the line from guardians to about you know
He may have not been your he may have been your daddy, but i'm your father
Whatever the line was like to me that one line had more of an impact
In terms of like a character and like how you feel and how you change how you feel about watching these movies
Then all this spider-man stuff because it's all just light fun and inconsequential
There's no bigger picture implications. There's just
I mean I we we live in the post avengers world. I expect more out of this stuff
And I don't feel like this delivers. It's it's just good enough. It like crosses the bar of what I would consider a fine
Good movie. It's not bad. It's not broken
But it doesn't elevate itself to become something that will stand the test of time
I know we bring up spider-man too, but that does that I mean I remember sitting in the theater
It was like a wednesday when the first day it came out and it's going wow. That was something this one. It was
Also had that feeling about other disney movies too like the wow that was something the first avengers infinity war
Parts of guardians captain america winter soldier and silver war like even just in the realm of the mcu. I felt
Moved and using air quotes that you can't see I felt something this just feels like hey you go
It's it's coca-cola. It's consumable and you're out and yes, you can analyze it
And i'm not trying to take away your ability to or uh belittle how you feel about it
But I just I can't there's there's no meat to it. It's just very one-dimensional for of a film
Okay
so what I would describe as the meat would partially be the what I what I
Previously talked about about like this this idea that we see this story of a teenage superhero learning
What his true motivation to be a hero is like that was that was a piece of meat for me
I was I loved the storyline of him
being faced with the
The realization of what he was pursuing was not what he actually wanted. It was just a
You know sort of like a misunderstanding of his own self
then there's the um
The element of what is going on between him and tony his father and son
the um
The betrayal tony gets from him which is residue from the fact that he's just dealt with cap
Essentially destroying tony's idea of what was protecting the world now. He's got his son figure
uh lying to him and manipulating his technology and
You know, he comes back by proving that hey this guy wasn't trying to do it for glory
He really did just want to protect the world
So it makes the relationship stronger and it's again something of a of a meaty element to it for me
um having such a major repercussion in vulture as a result of the mcu
Having him explain to me in the film
Why he exists and what what it is the avengers are doing to the world when you consider their negatives rather than simply their positives
that was
Quite a meaty experience as well
and then um, i'd have to say the climax of having him in the car with liz and vulture and
He's
multiple dynamics running at the same time of a father trying to grill
his daughter's boyfriend
At the same time as spider-man trying to protect his identity with a a girl who has these small pieces of information that
On their own may be irrelevant
When placed in a pattern in front of a guy who's pretty smart who's aware of what what's going on gets to piece it all together
results in pushing peter to this this portion where he's gonna have to choose between
being
this happy-go-lucky
student focusing on his life
Or to help the world and be a superhero all of these sort of big
Payoffs and elements in the storytelling was something that I found very entertaining to watch and if you would
Popped it all out
You'd called all these characters different names even tony if you'd called him bob
Stork and and and the main character was that a billy guy you're talking about. Uh,
Gary, I would still be here defending it as a strongly written movie
And then if if you said oh, it's an adaptation of the dark knight comic book or something like that
I'd be like, oh god, what what were they thinking? What does this got to do? I'm, sorry
Yeah, like you know, I understand you're upset completely
Um though it is still well written and you know, I don't want to repeat myself
I'm just saying that that's where my perspective comes from I suppose and I completely understand where you guys are coming from as well
Yeah, I think it's important to understand where we're all coming from yeah
Absolutely. Yeah. I mean there's like little scenes in there that are good. Like you said when uh, when he talks to peter, but then it gets
Taken there's so much that gets taken away at the end. There's so much of the stakes that don't mean anything. Um, and again
Film I would have loved
I I I like uh, michael keaton a lot
As vulture, I want more of that. That's a good thing
um
but
Um, yeah, there's little moments in it but
Just
It was not I I watched it again
I I've only watched it once since I was in the theater
So I want to watch it beforehand and then I watched uh, some of the actiony scenes right before this
I still can't remember very much of it. It's just
That uh, it was pretty exciting uh when he was climbing up the um, washington monument
That was cool when he was uh, and then that I noticed something else. It's like he's not in new york
So they were they were really trying to make this not spider-man in a lot of ways. This was a this was a deliberate thing
Uh that they wanted to do
All the time no, it's just it's just different and again, this isn't something I have a huge problem with
It's just interesting that they made a definitive choice to and he was in the beginning
But they you know have him go to washington and then in the next film he's not in new york
And it's just it's just odd. It's a it's a it's a weird decision. I'm not saying it's bad
Uh, and it's something I didn't even notice till I was watching it. I'm like, oh, yeah, he travels
uh, and maybe they're trying to make it less of a new york thing and more of a a world, you know
Well, my understanding was spider-man and this is something that uh
Fringy actually was was talking to me about at least this this is part of his interpretation
I suppose the um the scene where he's running through the suburbs. It's very much not a spider-man environment
Like he can't he can't perform as well when he's dealing with
houses and trees versus city blocks and stuff
And so it's almost like he's struggling. He's still learning
We're seeing a spider-man in an environment that we haven't seen in the movies before where he's trying to chase somebody through a suburb
Because it's yeah, what's spider-man gonna do and we see the results. He's very clumsy. He's very irresponsible
He terrifies children like at one point
um
But it's obviously supposed to be an entertaining sequence and one in which he's he's absolutely unprepared for because these movies are all developing him
um
I wouldn't be surprised if we get to see
More of what you guys are looking for uh down the line and that what we're seeing right now is his journey toward there
I'm not saying it's a guarantee and i'm not saying that you should like these movies if they do that. I'm just saying that um
Hopefully the the mcu can provide you something of what you're looking for one day. I don't know
I don't think we will
Much like the andrew garfield ones. I think this will suffer the fate of we only get all the spider-man movies
You get to a certain point and then it reverts right back
And that's why spider-man will always be one of the biggest missed opportunities because you'll have the strong open and then sequel
Which is good and then you'll just either have a third movie that's great and they'll revert
Or they'll have this third movie that was terrible like the real third one and it'll revert
And just it's all with rights and all these other issues like spider-man as a fan you just
Get that great, uh run of anything like captain america his run was great iron man
His run was great and they appeared in other things with spider-man
It's always like you get to where you want to go with spider-man and then let's restart it because uh, hollywood
Is just so obsessed with like this ditko lee first 30 issues spider-man
He's a little kid what she should be out of his growing pains by now. He's much more of an interesting character
years down the road
Um, yes
Go ahead
I was just going to go off with jeff and a lot a lot of us hardcore fans
Just know what you're missing and listen
Listen, this is pie in the sky stuff and jeff is right sony has a a modus operandi
They they they are definitely even though the mcu that that's the only reason this is watchable right now is because kevin feige is involved
uh, otherwise it would be battling venom and
freaking carnage in the first movie and it'd be terrible, um
But we know there's so many good spider and the thing is
And this is what my worry is is we've seen peter parker so much that by the time this one's over
People are going to want to go see miles morales. Well, never have have have
You would never have seen the real spider-man not once close with the ramy stuff, but not once
And that's that's a bummer
Um the missed opportunity just to uh, you said that um, iron man had a great run, uh jeff
Do you think that iron man two and three are strong films?
Oh, but what I mean is he he gets to become iron man and be iron man consistently it's like
Uh, okay, for example, batman begins. I like that movie
But then I like that he's fully batman in the next film
That's when he's not batman and reverts back in the third one. I have a problem
Iron man becomes iron man tony stark crows in that first movie
He continues to grow but he continues to be at his uh, you know
His full power as iron man and he develops an interesting way spider-man is always
Um stuck in that first gear tony stark's, you know all the way
So that's what I mean by good run
It's not about quality of films that the character gets to advance beyond one point and we've only really had we've only had one
version of iron man on film
The robert downey jr. It went to the end. It was great
Spider-man, this is the third actor that's done that where it's go it goes
We're getting ready to get into the next element. You know, the growing pains are over the first
Archivist cares life type of thing and it's like we're gonna redo it again and then redo it again and it just it's it's frustrating
Uh, yeah, like uh, so if I told you I didn't like spider-man homecoming because god damn it i've had enough spider-man
My an argument against me could be okay. That's you man, and i'd be like, yeah, that is me
What are they and then they're like, well, we don't we can't actually talk about the writing of the film
And then the third guy says i'm not tired of it because it's another spider-man
I'm fucking tired of it because god damn they pissed all over his character
And then someone else is like what character and they go from the comics which comic?
Well this this particular set from this number to this number. This is that is spider-man
It's like according to who you're breaking down the argument a little too simplistic about that. Uh, the reason I say like
Listed issue numbers. It's because everyone pictures about the sam ray movies. Well, he does this he does that because they adapted something specific
Uh, the one that we're talking about, uh is trying to adapt something specific, too
Uh, if you want what I really want is broad strokes of like the character like iron man
He's not an alcoholic in the movie. They play at they tease at it, but then they get rid of it
That doesn't make me hate it, but he's still that
Uh conflicted man, he has other demons
Can I just uh take that away someone in chat said according to mauler ghostbusters 2016 is a great movie
If you just ignore the original films ghostbusters 2016 is terrible on its own
And you could have had um a soft reboot of ghostbusters. That was good with women
It's possible you need a really great comedy writer if you're gonna go with that, but the comedy was godawful
The story didn't make any sense
terrible film
Um would never work though. No matter how great the movie is
Well, this is the thing if someone told me that um, it doesn't matter what they do because it'll never be the source
I would be like well that seems stifling i'd like to give them a shot. Um, it's very unlikely
They'll be able to pull it off. I'd happily agree with that. But uh, it's possible
Yeah, I would say it doesn't really 16 couldn't have been good because it was all women
Well, I can't hear your mike soft
but is
Is are we saying 2016 ghostbusters couldn't have been good because it was all women
I'm saying ghostbusters 2016 couldn't be good because
Certain movies are lightning in a bottle. You can't and you don't need to try to replicate it
You know, it's not it ghostbusters is not an adaptation. It's its own entity
And even the second ghostbusters isn't that great?
But the first one is how that I don't see how that means it couldn't have been a good movie
Because it's what does it need to exist for like I mean
What are you trying to get at are you trying to say that if I made this uh oscar worthy film?
That's ghostbusters the remake that uh, it's you know, it it needs to exist. It's great
I mean, what are we trying to?
Get a pinpoint because I think what the audience is saying is why i'm curious why you've you've you've said that it couldn't have been good
Because it's not ghostbusters is ghostbusters. It's one specific thing. It's not
Uh up to your interpretation of how you're going to change it and mold it to whatever modern settings
It's it's that one film. It's that 1984. It's all those people. It's all the
Special effects artists the the editors everything. It's just that one thing. That's what ghostbusters is
It whatever you make isn't going to be ghostbusters. It's your take on it. It doesn't
Obviously, it's not going to be a one-for-one exact copy of the original. I don't see how that
That means it couldn't have been
a good ghostbusters film
Good they couldn't even make a good ghostbuster sequel with the same people. Okay, there's just something about uh, right place right time
Same with star wars
We can say that we're 0.00001 chance that somebody could have independently made
A good ghostbuster film with a bunch of women, but i'd say the chances of it sucking
Greatly outnumbered that minuscule chance we would have gotten a good film
Whether men half men women fucking stanley cuber comes back and directs it learns comedy bill murray de-ages himself 30 years
We still probably
Wouldn't have got but yeah, I get what you're saying, but I think it there's just
We've gotten a good good film. Uh, this next one coming out
You know, it'll probably be
So is it going to be a ghostbusters film or a film that says ghostbusters on it and we're even bringing maybe bringing back
Some of the old people we'll see we'll see but I think
Uh with the people involved there was little chance it was going to be good
But of course, there's always a chance something can be good
Okay for now, but but there's lightning in a bottle. I think jeff was saying is
Ghostbusters like terminator. Okay term people keep on trying to remake terminator terminators and arnold schwarzenegger action film
The decent uh tv series that nobody watched except for me
Uh, but that's it. I mean that's it. Well, I mean
You know, uh
Like I don't even know what the hell they were thinking with genesis or with dark fate
I don't know why they think that's gonna play. Well, I don't know who's telling them that these ideas are what the terminator
Like established fan base would like to see in continuity. I don't know why they would think
Any of that was a good idea. Um, could we have a good terminator sequels? Like I I I feel like we could
Same with predator and alien. I'm still holding out. Hope the one day we get a movie where I go
Hey, that didn't make me vomit. That was all right
I think those are all dead franchises though, and i'm not trying to be the negative guy here
But look at I love the first two terminators after that. It just
You know, it doesn't bring anything new to the table. It's like oh well judgment day didn't happen
Hey, oh wait, we're gonna time travel with judgment day and with alien
You know, the first one's great
The second one's my personal favorite and then after that it just it's less and less same with predator that first predator is so tight
Almost perfect in all these different ways. That's a movie that I will say i'll say that's arnold's best film
You know the predator it works on so many levels from what it is and then you get predator too, which is okay
I'm not going to dump on it like other movies
But then you get alien versus predator and predators and it it's always either law of diminishing returns or just like law of diminishing creativity
It's it's cashing in on ip's and that's a bigger problem. We can try to have you know, philosophical discussions
We can try to break down certain things
but at the end of the day these movies exist to cash in on things from the past that were created with passion and
Creativity, you know even star wars. I know we talk about stars on my channel every day and that's fine
But like when you're passionate about a story you will come up with ways now all these things
mcu
dceu all this stuff is
Filmmaking by committee and the same approach to the script writing isn't there. You don't have the same caliber of people working on stuff
That's why you get a lot of hollow garbage bullshit. That's why you get your men and black internationals
That's why you get your x-men dark phoenixes these things
Um, you know movies used to mean something to a lot of people it used to be you know
A goal. I want to be a film writer or your screenwriter. I want to do this
I want to do that nowadays people are just always bouncing onto other things and then you know
It's just it's just a step to somewhere else same with comic books
Conbooks have suffered the most because you had these guys and mostly guys
I'm just going to say it like that that wanted to be in the comic book industry
You had your ethans you had all these people. This was my goal
I'm going to become the best at it and then it gets infused with all these people that are like
This is a stepping stone to the next point in my career and it suffers creativity
Creatively and you have very few people that are putting out a great product. It's everywhere
That's our entertainment landscape today and I look at uh, you know, the spider-man movies the same way
You know, maybe you could you can throw the nostalgia card at me, but i'll throw out
Uh all kinds of other points to it
But like you had sam ramie who somebody who likes loves cares about spider-man on a level
And it shows uh this guy you don't have to be you know
Having pictures of spider-man painted on your wall like he did to prove that
But you have to know your characters or know your things what and this director has very little power
It's all kevin feige in the bigger picture and it just it all suffers
What would you say in relation to sam ramie not respecting or liking venom?
I would say that is an avia rod problem because
I think from the outset it looked like sam ramie had a much bigger
uh
Spider-man's one and two when you get to three it's a producer game like kevin feige
Do you know this just john watsky?
I had to look him up because I hadn't heard of him before
Like mark webb they hire these directors for spider-man films that don't have a vision, you know, sam ramie's
Vision is all over spider-man 2. I mean that scene with doc oc in the operation. That's eagle dead
Oh, yeah, definitely down to the chainsaw
And running and screaming into the camera. There are horror elements all over that
He has an artistic vision that some people love that some people hate there's some hokiness some campiness, but it's still his identity
This new spider-man much like mark webs has no identity. It's
Whatever the current it's current year the movie with spider-man
And that is I think that's another point where gary and I always get mad about like the interpretation of the high school
Supporting cast it's like oh we need to represent modern day. Whatever. That's cool
Put other kids in there too to flesh it out, you know
Ned leads is I think he has red hair, right gary
Dude or betty brant has dark hair and is older than him just like and that you know
That is part of all the disconnect with a lot of the uh spider-man fans
Mm-hmm. I was literally I have no idea. I was just going off
I'd heard that um, he really hated venom as a character
He didn't want him into the movie and though he was forced to have him was is that what?
India red owns the right culture
Yeah
Exactly
That's right. The Mysterio is gonna be played by bruce campbell. Yeah, I actually found that out today. I saw it on reddit
I had no idea that was going to be the case. That sounded like that would have been fun to see
Unfortunately, we didn't get really fun to say
I don't think anybody would complain if they if sony just did a one-off spider-man 4 with toby
I think that would just make a ton of money
but
I imagine they can't can they can they even do that right now with how like the ip is working and I imagine
Marvel studios wouldn't want them to be doing that with uh, oh god. Yeah
The way it goes. Well, I read this, uh recently if spider-man far from home makes a billion dollars
Then martin the mcu has some say in the next movie if it doesn't then it's a it's an independent sony film with tom holland
Looks like it's gonna make a billion dollars. So I don't think anybody has anything to worry about
I'm curious when that's going to slow down for the mcu when they're going to stop because I
You know call me an idiot, but I didn't think that captain marvel was going to make that much money
I know I know it makes sense because it's sandwiched between two
Enormous movies, but I still didn't think like
Who's who's so desperately interested in seeing this if you know what I mean, but um, yeah, it still made that much so
It was surprising for sure, um, I think once we get away from endgame, we're still in the endgame time frame
So and plus they're going to announce phase four
And the only movie they have in production right now is a dead person black widow prequel who just got in a bunch of trouble
with hollywood yesterday for speaking some truth scarlet joe hansen did so, um
Yeah, so I guess we're gonna get an internals announced. Did you know did black panther make a billion?
It black panther made a ton of money and that was that's all the only one that didn't make money
That's weird. That was in the infinity war time frame and I understand
Rags, and I'll probably agree on this one is ant man wasp an ant man. That's why I call it the wasp an ant man
Yeah, that one was I don't
I mean yeah, I saw it. It was oh, it was fine. Yeah, it was charming little movie, but
The thing that happened. Yeah
Well did that one i'm assuming that one made the least out of
Literally the last like probably like seven or eight or more
Um, that's within the looking up right now
Uh within the infinity war time frame, I believe it is the one that's done the worst everybody else
It only made 622.7 million black panther made 1.3 billion. So wow, okay
Yeah, well, so this is the thing, you know, like
Posing those of controversy with estin like this will be the black people movie. This will be the women movie
I always think that that is it may increase sales for the people who are interested in that sort of thing
But I always thought it would decrease sales to a degree as well
And so it may level out or cause problems. But yeah, I don't know it works. I guess for those
Frickin work like a charm and it's shocking and hopefully the next one's going to be internals by the way
That's going to be the gay people. Uh, that's going to be the gay the gay people movie
That will be released during june during pride month because they did captor marvel during on uh international women's day
And they did uh black panther during black history month and that's mcu, is it?
He's going to have he's got they're going to that's going to be their first, uh
Gay lead in a film. So they're going to release it during pride because why not it worked with black panther
it worked with captain marvel
and uh, well, yeah, so
2021
I think it's coming out. Uh, and uh
I actually the the comic is interesting. Uh, I
I doubt it's gonna be good at all
Or watchable, but we'll see. Yeah. Yeah fair enough. Um, so the point of today was essentially just to explore
Uh the y on both sides and I feel like we've done it why
I feel like we did it. I think that i'm hoping that the audience now knows
Why you guys?
Well, I would imagine you guys strongly represent the portion of the audience that feels the same way as you do
And I would hope that me and rags, uh do the the opposite
I don't know if um, there's probably I can guarantee there's gonna be a bunch of people like why didn't they talk about x y and z?
Um, is there anything else? Is there any topics you can bring it up?
Yeah, I because I was gonna say, um, if we've got time, I wouldn't mind just uh responding to a video you guys it's always fun
Absolutely, but I just I want to say I think jeff and I are in the minority
On the homecoming thing. Uh, I know like we're in jeff's chat in my chat, you know people will gravitate to our opinions
I completely understand that but considering how much the movie's making considering what?
People say about it online. Wait, you know mostly I yeah, I I
Will concede that I am in the minority on this one. Um, but
So is that you guys didn't talk about x y and z
Yes, do we?
uh didn't
Yeah, it'll be like the michael keaton batman thing gary
There'll be that portion of time it'll pass and then everybody will kind of be back on the old
Hype train and it'll just kind of ride itself out and new ones will come out and they'll accept it
But people will still kind of remember the old one. So
I think that's where we're headed with spider-man and i'm okay with that. I got well, I look at it like this
Yeah, go ahead spider-man movie at a really important age
So I it's not like i'm dying to see, you know, my version of spider-man. I got it
I got it on blue red dvd
Uh people have been quite forgotten amazing spider-man. Yeah people still remember it for how awful it was if you know what I mean
but like
Uh, like like I don't know how long it'll take I I agree with you guys because I think those movies will
Into dust over time. They'll I think sony will want people to forget them
um
As for whether or not homecoming and far from home, for example will be forgotten
I think it's going to be much harder for those films to be erased if you will because of the fact that it's a part
Of the mcu so we're going to have this character for a potentially long time depending on uh happens next
I I will also say I would much rather have tom holland be the face of the mcu from here on out over brie larson
Oh god, I don't know that anybody disagrees with that
Jesus christ, I I want this to happen. It's not like I'd I would rather not
Yes, give me tom holland all day long. I will learn to like it
over that, um
So
Yeah
All right. Um, like I said, is there anything else anyone wants to say before because I just want to
Jump into it as soon as I can so that you guys can spend your time with it and have fun with us before you have to go
Uh, you guys are great
Oh, well, let me say it's nice to have a a a debate and uh, and still like each other in the end
See that's how it's done
She keeps making noises. Stop it. They hate me. Yeah, which is fine
Um, well while you figure out your computer issues i'm gonna use the loon be right back. There you go
If you guys want to catch a a quick pee break or get a drink
Anything is fine while I get this room ready and uh
This video and yeah, so just to give it a little bit of a setup
We're gonna we're gonna check out a video and I don't I haven't seen any of it
Uh, this is the first time for me because I usually watch them
At least a little bit ahead of time to make sure there's actual content for us to respond to but I was just like
How are the fans killed star wars?
like
You gotta wonder where they're coming from with that argument. What do you guys think from the title alone?
It's misguided
Yeah, because i'm a if someone was to make the argument that we're the reason that star wars is heading downward or something like that
I'd be like that's interesting. How are you going to qualify that or if they said the
We've damaged, um, the sequel trilogy by criticizing it i'd be like, absolutely
Like I hope we continue to do that
Yeah, that's the whole point
So here's a link to the um to the watch together once everyone jumps in and rags his back we'll be able to
Check it out. I've this is actually
Yeah, hang on. What did I do boomer?
You're right you're watching the lonely island. Oh, this is just a default video to ignore this. Oh, I love this song
I actually have no idea how the how these how these get chosen for watch together
I don't know what what determines a default. I wonder if it's advertising or not. I guess it would make sense
Um, okay, i'm gonna be like oh, all right. So is everyone ready?
Eddie
Everyone dave lee down under never heard of him. Neither have I this is all I know
This is a good video, but this will be exciting. We'll use it as a vehicle to discuss stuff regardless
Like my videos don't forget to follow me on social media to keep up to date with all the latest news
Regarding my channel and my content and most importantly don't forget to subscribe below or at the end of the video
Well, yeah, there you go guys if you want to subscribe
There you go
Hey, do you guys ever do that? Like uh suggest subscribing before the videos even
Started I don't know because it always seems odd to me. It's like when you want to try and works
If it works fair enough
I have not done it and it absolutely works. Yeah. I um, i've never done it. I've never told people like or subscribe
Maybe
I mean, well, yeah, there's there's those different strategies. I have and I don't think I have anyway
I'd have to recheck all my old videos
Star wars the last jedi has opened to become one of the most polarizing and divisive star wars movies ever remember when it was that high
Yeah, it's a bit lower than that
Well, that's the thing. I should probably
I should probably check when this was made then because this is apparently
january 11th
Uh, so a month after the film came out this this will be a hot take
nice
Hot off the present. This guy's opinions changed. Yeah, it would be interested if it has yeah
Fans and the majority of critics are seeing their prizes. It is a damn good star wars movie
This movie what really made me happy
So let's let's chris tuckman's take on a lot of movies made me happy
It's better than why mess. Yeah, you know, it's a bit extensive compared johnson
You've made a fantastic sours movie a fantastic movie. At least chris tuckman could probably tell us why he liked it
First time I saw it. Yeah. Oh you guys love these guys, right?
Uh, these are my favorite
No show we covered. Uh, so these these these are part of collider, right?
Yeah, or they were at least oh they were well we covered them regs, uh, they had like it was like that freak out that um
What's his name christian something?
I remember the whole video we looked at are they
He's part of the group. So the guy on the right
He like freaked out because correct me if i'm wrong guys
but he was not invited to a star wars celebration and he was upset about that and he
He was busting his ass being a fan he was being a fan he was busting his ass so hard
You know how hard it is to watch the movies and talk about them
you know much
I was buying action figures. You know how much time that takes I had to park get out of my car
I wasn't being a man for free like these plebs the fact that he thinks I entitled him to a free invite or whatever
Well, I don't know if it was free, but I did invite I just it's just I want to return on my liking investment
I thought it was utterly hilarious when the guy is just like no you'll do it
You'll do what we tell you to do. I was just like oh when your opinions and your presentation is bought for you, you know
Yeah, it's like man. Make sure you tell us this on air. Mr. Producer. Jeez. Good job
Yeah, I always thought that was actually kind of odd in the one thing i'll give christian on over is like
Why would he do that on air?
That sucked it's gonna affect how people perceive him like do you want it to be that way as I just be like
Why are you trying to sabotage him? Don't
Um, or at least, you know, you say uh, take a break take a break right now
We need to something important's happened and then you can talk to him
Not so much i've seen it twice now and the second time I saw it
I loved it the second time. I certainly give it a good time. No alcohol required
That was such a bizarre thing that was happening with tlj
Everyone was saying you have to watch it the second time before you can appreciate how good it is
You guys hear that a lot. Uh, we got a lot a lot. Yeah, just like I remember it
Why do I have to see it a second time? I can't remember what happened. Yeah, you're not smart enough a second time
Oh, I thought you didn't get it. You had to see it a second time because you're a simpleton
I mean you still you get you get people be like two times. Uh, three times I think is where you really get to
fully understand the quality
Okay, I think you're just trying to sell tickets at this point
They want to they want to color your perspective for a second viewing that you'll remember more than the first
So if they say all right, you need to believe it's good and then watch it is essentially what they're trying to do
It's like it's basically a micro version of what a con artist does
And hey, it probably worked for a lot of people
You know on my second I heard that some people like I hate everything watched it for three times
And the third time he was not bored
Three times he wasn't even bored
Good time
You are a worthless freaking piece of plastic. You're the worst thing i've ever seen in freaking star wars
You're the worst character. I hate your face. I hate you daisy. Really? You're freaking garbage
So I think this is interesting
So he said like people liked it and he's got these these calm civil reviews of people being like I did I enjoyed this film
It's very good. He's like and then some people didn't like it and shows this guy
Breaking out a toy and saying I hate your face. It's like, okay, so oddly oddly
He's looking at the camera while talking to the action figure, which is weird. I feel like he's saying this to me
He hates your face
He's like i'm so sorry. I didn't
I'm eternalizing all of this
I didn't mean to be aware of the piece of plastic. I'm so sorry
Hope you could be more human
Oh my I hated it
This movie took everything that you like about star wars that you love about star wars that you thought you knew about star wars
And it's on it and it's on it again
And then it sets it on fire and then it's on it again
And i'm not hating on this because I don't like where they were taking it
I'm just hating on it because so much of it was just poorly thought out and poorly written. I honestly love that dude
I could have wrote a better movie. Like what the fuck was that?
I'm just gonna say it right now
The last jedi has brought out the worst in the star wars fandom
Never have I seen the star wars
Well, I was like is it is it the worst because they didn't like it and if you didn't like it that means they're the worst
No, because they're supposed to like they're beating up figurines with plastic bats rags. That's why no fan base has ever done something so rash
Oh
It was community so angry so vicious and so nasty even turning up other fans who like the movie
Right me if i'm wrong
But people have been nasty about opinions on everything since the dawn of time
Like it's not this new phenomenon that star wars brought out of people
Yeah, humans can be assholes cave art
Somebody grunted that sucks. You have no talent and you're a hack and they fuck you
You don't know what you're doing
Look me make antelope with hand
Your antelope
This is like uh, yeah, the one absurdly intelligent one. That's like i've really got to talk to you about your realism here
This is not representative
Like what I feel like cool antelope could make a better picture of an antelope
Then that one guy went to france and painted all that beautiful cave art
But of course, he was the first suicidal sad caveman artist
He never sold a single cave in his lifetime. It was only after he died
It was appreciated
thousands of years
Like listen aug your artist shit, but once this wheel thing takes off, we're gonna make it big. All right, gonna be huge
Don't forget to sign it on the bottom. Use your hand. They'll be able to interpret that
Yes, these are real comments posted on some of my
All right, let's see what these say
While many have expressed their hatred on the movie and the film makers others have turned their vitriol towards disney. I'll pause it
I thought I was gonna okay deal with this problem
You okay. The last jedi was a pile of poo
anyone else who says otherwise is either a not a true star wars fan or be a
I think I know what that is. But
Uh, you are the dumbest person I have ever seen in my life. Take your opinion and stick it up your
but
Um, your opinions suck, dude
They didn't pay you, right?
Uh, your ranking reflects you as a sick
Blank these are real
The last jedi was garbage and only idiot millennial beta males would ever like that piece of feminist crap, which isn't true
However
It is it does seem to be a very broad
Accuracy that I have noticed on youtube
Uh, you are the dumbest person i've ever seen in my life. Take your opinion and stick it blank. Uh,
Some of the because some of these like fade in and out of each other
Some of my star wars videos while many have expressed their hate. Look at these comments
I won't give you the ones that your opinions suck. It's like, oh no
Oh, no, are you b are you okay? Are you gonna be all right there?
How devastating the filmmakers
Just get over it
It's fucking gross spine. Don't get over it. No, man. This is the worst fans have ever been
I don't know if I've never seen fans this bad
While many have expressed their hatred on the movie and the filmmakers others have turned their vitriol towards disney
The parent company of lucasfilm responsible for made it I was about to say imagine
Who well, who are they gonna blame the local school janitor? Like it's it would be disney. Why would it not be tisney?
The production of the new era of star wars movies disney killed star wars has quickly
buzzword for those who hate the movie and its predecessor the force awakens blaming the studio for
Ruining the franchise with supposed feminist agendas desolation of lifelong favorite characters a shift towards
Friendly entertainment and of course the decanonization of thousands of expanded universe. Yeah, that would overwhelmed it
This is not canon anymore
And we'll use some of the elements of it and call it our own
Which was their whole intention anyway
I guess they didn't use the good ones. Well, they didn't
They did not they used the bad ones that adapted them badly. It's like oh great. Yes
Stories published across printed media television and video games
Which die hard star wars fans had immersed themselves in for almost 40 years
The thing is though that star wars has always featured strong female characters and has always been aimed at children
So do you guys remember the major criticism everyone had was this movie has female characters and it's meant for children. This is bad
Yeah, no, I don't you don't remember that oh, no, I don't I don't ever remember anyone ever saying this
Damn
This time i've literally heard of it right now
um
Okay
The problem here isn't that I think when the problem here people have isn't that it was made for children
It's that the elements of the film that are designed for children
Or for laughs and comedy are in direct contrast in awkward ways tonally
To the things that are happening around them. That's what people have a problem with
Yeah
I suppose a lot of people might assume those things are the children oriented
Elements because a lot of children can't you know necessarily pick up uh tonal clashes
They'll just take every scene for what it is and be like yay
Fine. Yeah, um like uh, yeah space puffin, but when like it
Yeah, so much awkward comedy in tlj
So so with the lightsaber bonking on your head, I remember being like, oh, I thought this was serious. Okay
Was made for children by people who don't have children and no have no concept of what these little things are
They probably know more about jawas than actual children
Uh, the original star wars movie was not made for children
George lucas made tried to make a movie for everybody. Okay. It was just a sci-fi movie
That was pg when it came out and the toy thing picked up later as jeff knows
But when it originally came down came out, it was of course it was supposed to be family
But uh the hollywood off what you got you just said it well
Right like they try to dumb things down for kids that they don't need to do, you know or make them just bad outright
And yet people are getting choked to death. There's a severed bloody arm at the beginning of the first one and it's kind of
I mean there's there's non-kid stuff in there. Absolutely
Dude when when anakin got like burned in the third prequel i remember being like whoa
This is film guys
Yeah, full you don't actually like terrified. I wonder if any kid children got nightmares from that. I imagine they must have been
Yeah, I was
Seven when I saw star wars and the only thing I remember other than chubaka was being uh a little creeped out in the cantina
Because all the monsters and stuff
and uh
Yeah, and uh dars bader, you know choking a guy. I remember that that's that's stuck in my hands like whoa. Whoa
Well, you know that that wasn't real kid friendly back then
So yeah, that's this it was a dumb argument. We've heard it a lot though a lot
And it usually gets really simplified down to this film was made for kids instead of me and it's like well
Maybe it's not meant for you to be like who's saying this?
Is
Characters and has always been aimed at children if I want to also kids were less pussies back then so
For sure
Star wars fan how old they were when they first fell in love with the franchise
I could guarantee you that almost every single one would say that they were under 10 years old
In fact george lucas has even gone on the record saying that star wars is for 12 year olds
You know, it's hard for people to realize and i'm not supposed to say this
And I wasn't supposed to say it then but you know, it's a film for 12 year olds
Okay, so sure. There's no collaboration on that comment in any way. What is the what is the target demographic for a film like wally?
Probably something similar to what he just said young nine
And it's might even be a little young yeah 10 12 so and yet it's my favorite pixar film
It's like oh you chose a bad one. You're supposed to go for the ones that are more adult oriented. I guess
I don't know. Like what it's not it's a non-point to me. Um
I'm just like, okay
What are you trying to say the
Doesn't you think that there's an interesting element there that uh, if people are complaining about
childish elements of the sequel trilogy
Non-specific and they're not doing it about the ot and clearly there's something going on like they're identifying an element that
May not be to do with the fact that it's for children because it might be something else
But it just I find interesting that he's like george lucas said it was for kids argument over. Oh
All right. Yeah, don't even know what the argument was but okay. Exactly. Yeah. What was the context george has changed his stories like
10 times over the the decades. Uh, it's it's uh anywhere from uh,
An allegory from freaking world war ii vietnam fucking kids movie. What whatever it's it's it was a sci-fi
Movie that he wanted me to make at the time george had no kids
So he can try to make something for a 12 year old all he wants without having the real concept of it
He was just an artour at the time and trying to again to make a good film. So yeah that argument. They just pick it out
Anytime something's bad. I mean, it's not just for star wars. We've been hearing this for a long time guys
Like it's it's not made for you. That's why you don't like it. Well, then
It's not made for you either, but you like it. So I don't get the logic there
It's that movies are supposed to be made for everybody
Well, then uh free larson said that a wrinkle in time is not made for white males
I was like, oh wow
How insulting that you're saying that terrible film was made for like black people, I guess like what are you talking about?
Exactly. Why are you what do you like? Why do you hate him so much money?
Yes. Oh it did it
Standably maddening for those who devoted so many years to the stories
But from a storytelling point of view it was the best move to keep storytelling original and concise by providing lucas film and their
Storytellers a fresh slate to work with how a fresh well a fresh slate by continuing the story
What?
All right
Wouldn't wouldn't a fresh slate be take place in a completely different part of the universe at a different time with different people
No, okay
Well, I hate that argument. I'm just like, of course, it's not they're using all of the things from the other films
They're continuing. Well, how is this a clean slate the same actors?
It's a fresh slate when they use the same actors in continuity with previous ones. All right
I don't think this guy knows what a fresh slate is
No, he doesn't
However, when presenting with the facts some star wars fans will use anything they can to prove that disney has tarnished the franchise
Even trying to convince you that mark the actor behind luke skywalker hated the movie himself
No, they'll just say you're talking about a context, you know what I like about the context arguments, right if you have someone like
like mark saying
Luke is behaving out of character
They say that you take him out of context as if to say he said I am about to lie
Luke skywalker is out of character
It's like that's not the context at all. What why do you think that like there's some beautiful sentence that removes the one that we're using
It's insane
Using a compilation of clips like this to justify their own thoughts. I've had trouble
Accepting what he saw for luke. I said to ryan
I said jedi's don't give up, but if he made a mistake, he would try and right that wrong
So right there we had a fundamental difference. That's the crux of my
problem
Luke would never say that but what they're not showing you in these viral supercuts is
context
I knew who was gonna say everyone does. They're just like I am
Blown away. He just changed my mind on the whole thing
See the statements he just made they're going to be invalidated in a moment by these other statements that'll have nothing to do with them
And this is the thing, um, I never claimed that he hated the last jedi
I don't think there's a quote where he says he hates the last jedi certainly didn't fucking like what they did with luke
There's I don't know if there's any debate on that just because he says it 37 times doesn't mean there's not context that
Reimagines all that he said and how wonderful by the way because when do you get that when do you get actors promoting a movie?
getting to speak honestly about the project like
Something to really appreciate that we're not going to get very often
If
an actor is
Being interviewed on the press for a film that's supposed to be positive and he's bringing up what you guys just said the same thing
Over and over and over again. He's trying to send a message that he can't outwardly say
Obviously he hated the film and well hated what they did the luke
uh
But let's hear the context
But again, I mean I have to say having seen the movie I was wrong
I came to really believe that of course he's gonna say that I mean wrong about what specifically
um, because i'm curious what that what that actual quote was in reference to was it about wrong about how it could be executed or
Because luke not giving up. I mean that wouldn't change based on
Him seeing the story run through versus setting it up because it's just like a fundamental
I
Was absolutely wrong because when I cashed that really big paycheck with those
Had a lot of zeros on it. I realized I like this movie as long as the money is good from this paycheck
If I remember correctly the other very interesting quote from him is that um, if the film is good
Ryan's fault, but if the film is bad, it's ryan's fault like I remember him
Basically trying to put out the point that as far as he's concerned luke is out of character, but it might work and if it does
It's because ryan managed to make it work and if it doesn't it was because he couldn't make it work
And you know, maybe mark's referring to the fact that it was well liked or that he even maybe enjoyed it himself
But it doesn't change the fact that his criticism is absolutely accurate. This is not
It's very out of character for luke considering the end of the sixth fucking episode
But what you don't get is that we missed 30 years in which he went on a crazy journey that actually developed all of this
We just didn't need to see it
That ryan was the exact man that they needed for this job
When hamill went on the record to rectify his statements all of a sudden he became the target of fan scorn
So I I think you guys probably heard this one as well where they're like, ah, see he's going back on everything
He said he's disappointed. Whatever. I always took this as um
he was
He regrets saying what he said because it's uh
It's just he thinks it's probably caused more of a rift between the people who like the film people who didn't like it
Because they'll be using his quotes and uh
Trying to represent that someone who is intrinsically tied to luke skywalker thinks he's out of character
Surely that would be a significant argument and blah blah blah and it's like oh if i'd never said anything
Maybe people will be getting along a bit better
I always thought it was like an altruistic move, but a lot of people, uh would go with the fact that he's just trying to
To sort of smooth over his uh
Set of oddest statements
There's a lot of ways to interpret it. I guess I there is I I would argue that both are probably true
He probably did feel bad for dividing the fam and let's face it. I you know considering mark's
Politics there's certain people on the side of the fandom menace that mark wouldn't want to associate himself with which is too bad
because they're good people fandom menace, but um
But I think he also got a talking to I think he got sat down and then went mark
You can't yeah, he says he regrets it
Yeah, not that not that he was regret things for a variety of reasons
Not that he was incorrect or that he was sharing feelings. He didn't actually have he just simply regretted saying it
Good point
I regret saying my wife looked fat in that dress
With fans shouting damage control
And insinuate I mean it absolutely I think even mark hamill would agree as damage control
He's trying to account for the damage that's been done
And there's no way about that
Yeah, this meme makes sense to me
Yeah, also that because of
Influence from all of these sources that are like you better essentially say this and don't uh, I don't obviously this this came out before
It happened, but it's just funny to look back on now. It's just like all those hateful fans being like, oh, he's just not even
So you remember what happened what he shared that photo of uh,
The photoshop of the original cast all back together. We never got to have and he got like ripped apart
How dare you
Want to hang out with your friends on screen for 30 seconds a minute of screen time jackass
That was crazy because even I was just like why would they be mad at this? It's like oh apparently he's stoking the flames again
It's like how
It was literally denying the existence of people for that picture
And he'd been threatened by disney over his comments when hamill rectified his rectifying statements. It was a lost cause
Rectified his statements. He literally says in this tweet that he's enjoying the conversations both pro and con
He's enjoying so that means he's enjoying conversations critical of the last jedi. So how would that be an example of him?
Like bringing it back. Everyone's entitled to their own opinion. Look at that hamill himself
There you go, it's all valid
Not taking anything back
He'd already lost the fans who'd blasted disney a week earlier for disrespecting him and his character were now
Disrespecting him themselves suggesting that he was lying to his fans
Even when presented with the full story some star wars fans blood full story story. What full story
You have to present to present that first
Do we have the full story to this day? I don't think so
Yeah, no, we don't
Who knows what happened with him and the studio execs and the people paying the bills who knows what they said to him
Who knows
Full story complain about something
Anything has still found a scapegoat in disney to blame all of their disappointments on so make way for the rise of disney killed star wars
But you know something
It never had to be like this disney never had to take control of
I like that he says this as if we disagree. We're like, yeah
Yeah, this is all in response to something
And george lucas never had to be distanced from the sequel trilogy. So how did it get like this?
Did disney killed star wars or
Did the fans?
Oh
Here comes the argument, I guess
Hmm when star wars opened in 1977
Film goers had never seen anything like the galaxy far far away ever before I see we really started the beginning for this one
We are
All right. Can we go back to the one that is like we're clearly specifically talking about one singular specific film
And you're going back to 50 years ago. I imagine this is fluff
I don't know how important this is going to be but I guess we'll find out
Oh, why don't we see george's parents having sex and conceiving george? I want to go back further
Yeah, it all began with a big bang
Little george lucas was born 19. Love it. It's like, okay. Okay. Okay
Innovative and it was all inspiring
It wasn't long before george lucas's small independent science fiction movie that no studio wanted to touch became a worldwide phenomenon
By the end of the 1980s george lucas was a god amongst nerds the world over star wars had spawned two sequels
To form a trilogy now known as the original trilogy. You guys know that
What there was an original trilogy. Yeah, um from which all other star wars works are derived in some way
Well, I just this is why i'm asking because I didn't know I find this very interesting. They were movies
Well, I thought it was a tv show but apparently yeah, there were movies first films
Yeah, I thought it was in a series of elite telegram messages
in code
Sumerian code three television specials two cartoon serials and a multitude of books and comics
Which would go on to form the foundations of what would eventually be known as the star wars expanded universe star wars media flourished throughout the
1990s mainly spurred on by the hype surrounding george lucas's announcement to finally produce his long rumored prequel trilogy of movies
When 1999 rolled around the hype for star wars episode one the phantom menace was real
Fans flocked in droves to see the first installment of the saga for 16 years
Some even camped out in front of cinemas for skipped over a big thing
Yeah, he skipped over a major thing. The the the 20 year anniversary. That's the reason all this stuff happened
I mean it was behind the scenes, but the 20th anniversary was huge that brought star wars back in such a big way
I
remember that
You know, it was kind of a slow burn you remember jeff
It was like, you know from 91 to 97. It was a slow burn and things blew away like 96
and then howard stern was complaining because the
In the theaters and they were like number they were making like 30 million dollars on a weekend, you know
with uh, which the special editions was
I know then too sure that that was but it was a great time to be a star wars fan
Okay was it was so much fun
Not as much fun these days
To see the first installment of the saga for 16 years
Some even camped out in front of cinemas for over a month to ensure that they were the very first to see the movie
And when curtains closed on opening night fans around the world
They loved it
Fantastic go see it as quick as you can get enough of it. I want to see it again already thumbs up a thumbs up
Um, god, what are they saying if I could it was intense i'm curious
But I mean do you guys have a have an insight to this like
Were there a significant amount of people who didn't like the phantom menace when it first came out or was there not?
Um, one of them it took it
I hated the movie. Yeah
Okay, so it took time that uh, the hypnosis
Was in most of the people that uh, my theater
Did not erupt in applause. I remember walking out of it
Going I think it was good. And then by the next day I realized it was it
And uh, I but there was definitely hype behind
Was torn people were torn people knew it was bad, but we're saying it was good
That's what was really happening with the adults. I can't speak for the kids
But uh, i'm sure some kids like absolutely loved that movie because it truly was made for like nine eight years old
That's what I was. I was like, oh my god. He made like a
Like a eight a movie for eight year olds. It was so
Freaking bad. Uh, but at the time though people were saying they liked it. It was split
It was pretty split
Oh, I remember
That gary ever watched the clerk's cartoon
Yes, oh, yes, that's good
They had a joke about it back then because that show came out in 2000
So just a few months after the movie was out. So I mean it was there
But one thing I don't think these videos take into account in all the geek culture videos is that star wars really wasn't cool
The late 90s that movie came out and then people got back into it
But like the a certain age group still didn't like star wars when episode one came out
I went to a school where nobody watched star wars but me and then the next one and then this came out
Still nobody really watched it. So maybe it was just me
But I don't remember everybody, you know rocking the star wars stuff. It was like slightly older people
Yeah, it was it was still older people when uh, you know late 20s at the time it was gen x thing
So a lot of people in their, you know 25 26 27 at my age
were there
And they were trying to work it out in their head
But I will I will freely admit I was I was under hypnosis when I walked out of the theater
I'm like, that was pretty good. You know, it wasn't perfect, but it was pretty good
But there was you know, a lot of people did this but I was with my friend doug
And j and we sat down and before it started we had that like
Anybody's ever seen fanboys the end of fanboys when they finally get to the movie and they're all what if it sucks?
We asked ourselves that and we got our answer
unfortunately, but but by
Six months had went by everybody thought it sucked. It took just some time
Interestingly unlike the last jedi. Yes. No, no there it
Oh
Let's watch the rest of the video we'll get into the two phases of the last jedi hate that I found were really interesting
It was incredible. I loved it. It was awesome. We got tickets for the 9 a.m
Show we're gonna stick around and see it again. I thought it was better for the jedi personally
So it'll be a great movie 20 years from now
Unless the next two really suck, but I don't think they will but then
Something happened with the heart of the movie fizzled away audiences somehow decided they no longer like the movie
They somehow decided somehow
Somehow decided somebody put a spell on him
As if it's like magic
It happens think about it. They didn't reflect
They didn't actually analyze the film. They didn't actually look at it. No, they just somehow
as if by magic
How could this have happened?
That's not what fans are supposed to do thumbs way down
You didn't like it. No, I couldn't believe some of the things they wrote about
The prequels, you know, I mean, but really beyond I didn't like it
They hated the new characters like jar jar binks
They hated jake loyd's portrayal as a young anakin skywalker to the point where he was driven into a super early retirement from acting
They hated the special effects and most of all they hated george
All right, I think I deserve a public apology from george lukas
That's the uh, the people versus george lukas, right
If so
I think I think it's to do with that fans
Tired rated against both the new movie and george himself and with each coming prequel the hate got worse
And the movies got worse
I mean, I actually think that I guess the third is an improvement
An insult to injury george's revisionist versions of the original trilogy the star wars special editions
And later the star wars special dvd editions with a target of backlash with fans furious that look
So I think I see where he's going now
He's going to explain that uh people hated on this stuff so much george sold it to disney
And so whatever disney did to it is kind of george's fault and thus the fans fault. Is that a joke and that's where he's going
unlikely
Looks like game of thrones. It's all george r martin's fault
That argument was very strong. Yeah
beloved films with updated special effects new songs new scenes and
Well quite bizarre changes the immense why you called it bizarre
What what what how did you somehow come to that conclusion?
I was about to say the one that he showed for bizarre. I don't I think I think you see the logic right replacing
the actor they had at the time for
Return of the jedi with anakin's ghost from episode three you could see how they came to make that decision
I don't think it's a wise decision, but you could see how it happened
huh
like uh
bizarre decisions, um
I'm trying to think of like the stupidest sort of changes they make in in the sort of
Re-releases, uh, I don't know having a little haven't made a shouting. No, I thought that was really awkward. Yeah, that was terrible
And you know, it's interesting he's calling out this bizarre change. So it's almost like almost maybe maybe
There are actually reasons why people don't like some things. No, they're just hating
Oh overly aggressive
New scenes and well quite bizarre changes the immense hatred even led to the creation of a documentary called
Yeah, the people verse george lucas
Which basically gave the star wars fandom a soapbox on which they could rally against their once
But yeah, I think that's probably what was important. It felt like they were being heard once this thing came out, right?
uh, a lot of people anyway
It was like a
So I haven't seen it. I've always meant to watch it and I never got around to it
But it's supposed to just be like a big sort of collaboration of how he fucked everything up with the prequels
um
And it's just funny to look back on that now because of what's happened
Just how was
Coming forward. Yeah
I don't know who this guy is
But I could tell from the questions they were asking me they were it was an open invitation to trash george
And I have issues with george, but I love that man. I would never you know, and I don't talk outside the family
It's just brutal imagine george and he's not family them
Running on a bed made of people a lot of people view george lucas
as the antichrist
All right, a little hyperbolic
Yeah, not at all
Build his destiny or has he destroyed his legacy when the prequels were done and dusted the hatred for george and his movies continued
Ah there you can see I hate everything making a video called. I hate george lucas going over how he just destroys star wars
It's like man. He changed his tune when the sequels came about he was like guys stop being so hateful
These films are about love
films are about togetherness
I mean
interesting, I guess he
He he he had a character arc of sorts
yeah
Fans constantly took to the internet to rip apart lucas and his movies and continually harassed him in the streets
The way he was treated simply for trying to entertain his fans. He just tried to entertain his fans
That's all he wanted to do is bring smiles to children orphans. That's montgomery. I recognize where he is right there
That's san francisco, man
Neat neat. Um, yeah, he's all that billions of dollars. You know how like it it's really hard to transfer that money
It's really heavy
Uh, if you're actually carrying it around and all those cars he has to buy. He just wants to entertain us though. He does
Disgusting
Over the few years that followed the release of episode three revenge of the sith the final star wars prequel lucas continued to deliver interviews
And with each following one looked less enthused and more broken lucas seemed over it
He no longer wanted anything to do with star wars and continuously denied the possibility of any more sequels
What if someone else beside you came to you and said I want to make episode seven
Could you see that happening? No
No, absolutely positively. You're really up closing the door without any wiggle room whatsoever that neck on him, man. Oh
Like he changed his mind
It's almost like a money
Kind of and somehow
He just changed his mind somehow. I wonder what it could have been that changed his mind
I wonder he gave all the money away, right that uh
got from
Believe so. Oh did he also changed his story on that multiple times over the years because there were there was always the rumor
they reported on it in the fan club newsletter called banthe tracks that I was a member of
That seven eight nine were planned out not written but planned out
When he sold it in uh, was it 2015 or 2014 or
12 actually 12. Yeah, it was seven years
October
Where I was changed his mind over seven years
As it happens were you deaf?
Like the kennedy assassination you knew where you are you guys have no idea what i'm talking about
I was in a class in college and i was in a kennedy the president got shot. Yeah, we know who that is
I went yeah, I went to his uh brave and decent
Yes, no that used to be the old, you know, you know where you are when kennedy got shot
Although i'm not even that old but i'm sometimes I just
Isn't that oj for the 90s you again jeff? Yes. Oj. Oj is a better one. Yes. Where were you?
I was just saying I was in college. I remember the exact class guy's name with dr
Newworth and all of a sudden somebody's like hey disney bought star wars. They're making more movies
And I remember standing outside. It's classical. Whoa
So you were you were actually positive about it then
Oh
I was confused. Oh because I think that
It's been I thought they attached james jabrams right away
I just remember vividly where I was talking about it and I even had the thought i was like
I wonder if it can be worse than the prequels and it was so
Yeah
I was actually excited about it
Yeah, I thought it was good. I thought it was I thought it was a really good thing
I heard kathleen kennedy and disney. I'm like, oh this is cool. Oh, this is great
Uh, yeah, oh well. There is no episode seven when the new when the newest installments was
The star wars is going to be seven eight nine
Harrison mark
He would even tell the new york times in 2012
Why would I make anymore when everybody yells at you all the time and says what a terrible person you are
You go to make a movie and all you do is get criticized
And people try to make decisions about what you're going to do before you do it
You know, it's not much fun and you can't experiment you can't do anything
You have to do it or it could have been good
This was a far cry from the man who since the 1970s had planned on a three trilogy nine movie story. Well
Maybe he wasn't the man for the job after a certain amount of time. Who knows?
Yeah, maybe some people they have their
Good things that they do and then that's it
I mean, I don't think ridley scott was the man for the job of taking alien forward after uh,
We we got to prometheus. I I was beyond over the moon excited that he was doing it
Then I watched it and I was like, oh
Okay
But and someone's like well, it's ridley scott. I'd be like, yeah
It's older ridley scott separated by decades from that original property
and george
Of awareness enough to realize that he wasn't really he hated directing. He wasn't into it
That's why he didn't do the next two
But then he somehow talked himself into directing the next three was just a bad idea
You know, um, like we we've talked about uh on your uh on your channel
But like do I think joss weeden will ever make something like buffet angel again is like no
unfortunately
Um, so what happens people change over time I suppose
uh
Ah
Yeah, that explains it pretty much had planned on a three trilogy nine movie story arc
It one time said would you consider playing an obi-wan type character handing x caliber down to the next generation?
I said when that would that be and at the time he said around all around 2011
I hope you enjoyed this special showing of the star wars trilogy as you may know the films
We've just seen are only the middle three chapters in george lucas's master plan for a nine part saga
Lucasfilm continuity editor alan count. I had that book
It was a cool book. You guys have that one secrets of secrets of um
That one yes secrets of shadows of the empire
I guess it's secrets of star wars shadows of the empire. Yeah. Oh because with the red I put the red
But uh, yeah loads loads of interesting tidbits in that book I remember finding a lot of fun when I was here
Hmm
Would refer to lucas's nine films in the 1996 book the secrets of star wars shadows of the empire
and even in the
1980 interview with preview magazine lucas would refer to star wars as
A nine part saga that has a beginning a middle and an end it progresses over a period of about 50 or 60 years
All right about 20 years between trilogies each trilogy taking about six or seven years
Lucas would also write something to a similar effect in an introduction to a
1994 reprint at the very first star wars really curious where he's going with this
Yeah, we have five minutes left man 1978 splinter of the mind's eye
But by the early 2010s lucas had seemingly lost all desire to complete his vision
Furthermore lucas would continually express his desire to instead return to a star wars fans killed star wars
Release to the general public they're gonna be small topic
You said it's somebody i'm gonna go like is that man?
I think I think it's gonna be that he's gonna circle this around. He's like you see
It was the fans that gave it to disney
Go off and make these art films that nobody's gonna want to watch
Yeah, i've i've earned enough i've worked enough to be able to fail the rest of my life
And that's what i'm gonna do
This was his final middle finger to the fans who disrespected him and his artistic vision for so long
I will be directing. Yeah, they showed them
He sure showed them
Yep, i'm not sure how that's a cool. Yeah guy moment, but okay movies generally that will be shown
He's like ha ha I could fail for the rest of my life. Ha ha
That sounds fun
Is he implying he sold it he sold it to disney out of like a bitter resentment for the fans like oh
Like all right, that's his fault though. I mean
That's also what you think he's not a good director he knows he's gonna fail at the next movies no matter what so
Yeah, good job
Generally that will be shown anywhere in 2012 after over a decade of harassment news
Broke that the wonk disney company had acquired star wars for four point zero six billion dollars far less
Than the franchise was actually worth considering having only released three movies since 2015
Disney have already made lucas just wanted to make a quick sale to lighten the burden of carrying the world's most popular franchise
On his shoulders for almost 40 years or or or or alternatively he wanted four billion dollars
What I mean, I don't know how he disseminated the money exactly
But also the idea that he's like people want more star wars fine. I don't want to be the one that makes it
There's a lot of purposely
It
Like exactly four billion dollars. He took so much less of the money. He couldn't spend in his lifetime ever
But uh, yeah
Those fans make some easy cash to fund his experimental films. These are my kids
It's late to and you sold them. I sold them to the white slavers to take these things and
and
It did seem at first however that lucas would be somewhat involved in disney's announced sequel trilogy
Handing over all of his treatments to the mouse house to finally complete his vision kathy and I have been
Working on future star wars films. We started working with writers and started working
Uh on all the processes of doing the films. I have story treatments of
Seven eight and nine and a bunch of other movies and I sort of moved that treasure trove of stories and
various things to kathy and you know complete confidence that you're gonna
Take them
These treatments would eventually be thrown out by disney march to the disappointment of lucas. They looked at the stories and they said
We want to make something for the fans
this is such a like uh
Again, i'm just like i'm almost I was about to say like well i'm having fun with this because yes
It's like the content creator here hasn't really done anything other than stitch together. Just uh
gorg sharing his sort of
timeline with disney, so i'm just like yeah, okay
How does this proof fans killed star wars?
How we get it?
Waiting for it. We're running out of time. They decided they didn't want to use those stories
They decided they were going to go do their own thing. And so I decided
Fine, they weren't that keen to have me involved anyway, but at the same time I said i'm not gonna if I get in there
I'm just gonna cause trouble
Because they're not going to do what I want them to do
So and I don't have the control to do that anymore and all I would do is muck everything up
And of course funnily enough all of a sudden with a new enemy fans rallied against disney angry with their mistreatment of george
His ideas and his saga go screw yourselves
I hate
Okay, so if something is considered bad and something else is also considered bad
To the point of making another thing seem less bad
This is a reasonable response the idea that you're like, you know what? I will take george's
movies over what they did
Because disney, I mean the last jedi
Oh, how do you how do you make something worse than that without being deliberate?
Like how do you accidentally make something that horrifically bad like it's it's impressive. So we all assume
Even if we didn't like the prequels the george would have a stronger episode seven eight and nine
I don't even know if there's much dispute on that from people who dislike tlj at this point
It's really weird, but I don't know if it was like tonight or recently
But I I had this weird dream about watching star wars episode nine and it was like bizarrely terrible
And everyone loved it. Anyway, you know
It's it's weird that it comes into my mind
Like the the movie had literal
Shots of like disney executives talking about how good the film is and how people don't understand it in the film
The credits rolling halfway through the just like that was really good that was really good. It was really good guys
He did really great. It all makes sense
I think fandom collectively can have evolved opinions over time
That's just it. It's like we appreciate that. It's crazy how that happens. But uh
It's still the fan's fault I blame the fans I do too
They somehow believe we'll be able to fix disney's supposed mess and restore the expanded universe to its former glory
But again, it never had to be like this
Just imagine a world where the original expanded universe still exists where george lucas releases
His very own star wars trilogy using his own specs and his own ideas
The perfect world for star wars fan. It could have been great or terrible too. I guess we'll never know
Well, we clearly very nearly had that and if it weren't for a decade of fan backlash and harassment
We would have don't you just wish we could kind of
Rewind the clock and also we could have had him sell it to sony and they made worse films than everybody
Or they could have made better films and now we could have had him sold it to
Quentin tarantino for some reason and he made a trilogy of star wars
It's like yeah, all these different things could have happened. Apparently we ended up in one of the shittiest timelines
But what are you gonna do? Yeah some Mandela effect
He also, I mean what's not widely known jeff. You might be able to elaborate on this
But uh, I I remember hearing this at the time. So he wanted spielberg to direct
he didn't want to direct the the prequels originally
And uh, actually people were actively trying to talk about of it. And of course as george does
he what he does he gets rid of people and he brought in rick mccallum rick mccallum is a
Oh, he sucked by the way big reason they're glorified. Yes, ma'am
Yes, uh, and exactly and that that that what's led to it
But I mean we can go back if george did this and if george did that
They would have been better than force awakens on last jedi, but they still
Could have sucked certainly but they would have been better than
The last jedi and force awakens because at least the guy who created them would have done them
And at least there's something behind the prequels, you know, yeah, they're bad, but you can argue. I mean there's
There's some interesting things and that is the guy who created them. So those we can't argue with that. No. Oh, sorry
There's a delay on my end. I was sorry. I was good
Yeah, I was done. Sorry with the prequels. There are moments of uh, I won't say greatness, but some really awesome moments
Visually, there's some great thematic moments
These disney ones just don't have any of that and all I would say is if that was a possibility with george lucas
7 8 9 we'd at least have uh, the characters be a little more respected because
He cares about them. They're not product
Let's put it this way if if you told me like hey
Would you like to have these films remade by that guy and you go what guy that guy on the street right there?
His name is bob. Do you want him remade by that guy? I'd be like sure
I'll take bob. I'll take bob star wars. I will take bob star wars in a heartbeat
Oh go fund me bob star wars. Come on bob five dollars for that maybe 10. Um
Go bob you go. How about him?
He's heard of star wars
And they're like, what about this apple like yeah, i'll take the apples. I'll take the apple star wars. Yeah
Literally like it I don't picture people doing worse unless you just take the last jedi and you just try and
Add more terrible things to it. I don't know unless you specifically go out of your way. Yeah
Which kind of sounds that's what like that's what they did. They went out of their way to make it terrible
They just didn't think it was terrible
Dj voices and chat said one of his last name is chipmunk
Well, we might regret uh had to go for the reins there
But hey, I might even give that a shot. Why not?
I wonder what bob chipmunk would have made that would be quite uh, I imagine it'd be a funny film at the very least
Oh, yeah
Back to this moment in time before the hatred before the dark times and just leave it
Right here. It was amazing. It was everything. I thought it was going to be a more movie was still terrible
That feel when you're like you're only supposed to like media
Yeah
So, how do you even like media if you don't dislike media like it? How do you have a scale?
How do you have experiences like you can't just like everything you wouldn't even be a human
Just consume product and then consume next products
The only thing fan backlash achieved is distancing the core fan base from george lucas and his creation
The only didn't the oh, oh jesus
Force him to do anything
The only thing fan backlash achieved there's a lot of thing fan backlash achieves is uh
As this video is trying to prove I guess
Was punished with four billion dollars a poor man
I hope he's all right
Worry about george every day. I do yeah
Forced his hand into selling his baby for less than it was worth simply because he no longer had a passion or desire
No, it is disney. I love that. He's trying to sell this as an actual sad thing. He sold it for just four billion guys
He's a
Gillionaire. Oh what a poor like how could you look what you did gone through it?
Look what you did. You made him sell it for less
24 billion now he's on the streets and homeless
All that poop on the streets in san francisco. It's george
Because he can't afford it because he went through his four billion
These new star wars movies continues
We'll come to a time where we never have a new star wars ever again fine
Oh, no, fine. I'm fine with that
If you told me that if disney don't make the movies, no one will i'd be like, okay
I guess that's just we got other stuff
We'll survive like
It's okay. It's the one thing I wanted to bring up like this guy acts like star wars has to exist forever very few franchises
exist forever
And the ones that do hobble on as a horrid corpse. It's like it's not a good sight
Yeah, you got alien and predator and
All of these films they should have died at their second iteration
Is a weird pattern, but i'll take it
they're always making new movies and books and games and comics and
Whatever it is. It's like well, we'll find some out. We got plenty to do
We don't just watch one movie over and over forever. Yep. Those times are over and uh, not a word at jj in this
Yeah, yeah
JJ
Who's jacked up two franchises nor is there any comment on the film itself?
Just earning this
Interesting
But films are just these these nebulous, you know frameless blocks and we just see them and then we move on
It's the fan backlash that ruins the chance to see more
beige cubes somehow
Remember somehow people decided they didn't like them somehow may applaud and pretend that that's what you want
It isn't oh, who wants oh, isn't it now?
Did he just claim it? Is it what we want that we don't want anymore?
Is that really yeah have a new star wars ever again?
And while you may applaud and pretend that that's what you want. It isn't are you glad that he's telling you guys what you want?
It really is though
Like I really wouldn't if there was never another star wars movie made i'd be fine. I'd get over it. I'm fine with that very fast
I mean remember when all the extended universe stuff was being made
It was probably done under the impression that that was all the star wars there was
I thought it was gonna stop with one through six
I thought that was it and then I think a lot of everyone thought we would have stopped with four and then four five six
And then one two three four five six and now one two three four five six seven nine ten one two three four three
So just go fuck it ever
We're gonna have a hundred of them and they're all gonna be the exact same story over and over again
But now we're at the point where solo movies can't even make money
In record time too
It made it made no money in record time record time it was it was a singularity of suck
How the fans ruined solo a star wars story
It's so low
You fans are ruining everything
Those pesky fans man without them. There's the
I'll be fine
Sorry about that. I was just saying let's just not bring up why this thing is here in the first place. Yeah
It's a bit of irony, right? It's like fuck you guys. You're ruining the franchise. It's like it wouldn't exist without the facts
No
Again and while you may applaud and pretend that that's what you want
It isn't who wants to live in a world without the possibility of a new star wars movie ever again
I don't know. It seems pretty tempting from this point of view
Yeah for the second time that I guess me this this this person here. That's me
That's exactly what I wanted
Does anyone think episode nine is going to be this great star wars movie? It's like it's pretty fucking
Impossible considering it's a sequel to those two disasters. It's like I don't think so
Well, or even if it's the greatest movie ever you have a broken trilogy and you cannot excuse that
Oh, well, this is the thing if you write everyone can you can't
We've brought this up before but you can't write a consistent kylo or a consistent hux. It's impossible
It's like which which continuity you're drawing from. Yeah
Oh, I also I want episode nine to be amazing in an incredibly good
So that when it comes out and it's incredible and it's good and it's amazing
We are we're all going to point out see episode nine is great and it's amazing and they can't say oh you just hate
Stuff because it's star wars like we'll have a clear distinction between star wars is that we find really good
Directly after star wars that we find terrible and we'll be able to point out the reason
But man, would you need a super talented writer with a lot of time?
But it'll be shit
And what did we get jj abrams the bad who can't finish a story is finishing the story of this horrible trilogy?
Okay
Doesn't finish anything ask his wife. Um, so
Here's the deal with the
I don't even know where i'm at, you know, i'm old
listen basic
Assault of the earth person so I don't understand everything I get it, but I don't know where I am
In with the characters, I don't know like we're like
Like we know a little bit about them, but it's those two movies were so different. What the
Frack is the first order. I don't even know what it is and how it gets its money and why it exists and
I'm sure they explained it away
That oh they didn't explain that much in the original trilogy, but it is
2019 and we need a little background. Um, what is the resistance really just seven people and uh,
Oh, they'll be restocked everyone will be restocked in the new one
It'll be game of thrones
Respawning they're all back. They're okay some great
The next trailer will probably have some shot of like a big space war and he'll be like, oh great. Yeah
We have po leading a fleet of um fighters into the heart of some giant machine
Destroy it and we'll have a shot of kylo and ray facing off with their lightsabers and a shot of luke
Maybe as the the ghost and just be like yep. Yep all this stuff. All right, bring it on. It's gonna be great
so like if you had to buy an action figure of one
New sequel character, who would it be?
Depended on it the new character
Yeah, yeah
Like just just one of them if you had to pick if someone was like, all right little timmy
You have this here's your money go to the toy store
And buy a star wars toy one of your favorite new character
And you're at the toy store. Who do you buy? Maybe po
X found cdao's character in the beginning of the force awakens
I would buy one of him because it's max von cdao, but po probably
Is the only I like to this is the thing and when I when I look at tfnt lj
I don't listen to the whole like po was the evil
Naughtyman throughout the whole film and he learns to be good at the end. I was like, no, he was right the whole time
He just had a bunch of idiots surrounding him
Which is unfortunate for him
But you know, what are you gonna do and you know, if anything he has he has a he's a tragic character arc
The idiots telling him he was wrong
Convinces him to make a huge mistake in the end of the film and veer off from destroying the cannon that's going to obliterate his team
They they instilled a sense of uh, low confidence within his character that was his arc he's he's regressing
Yeah, that's a shame but you know
Writers were so bad that they thought by writing somebody
Somebody who was in the wrong who was indeed in the right the whole time the writers didn't recognize that
And when the film ends po and now of course they didn't do that purposely and you guys don't watch star trek and thank god
you don't because
You value your minds and your sanity, but uh, the same exact thing happens in every single episode of star trek discovery
Uh, it's pretty phenomenal how bad it is. I just listened to red letter media talk about it. It's much better
It's much better. Oh mike. Have you seen star wars?
Not me I for one I love star wars I love all of it
I don't think it's dead at all. In fact, all right then
All right. All right
You you love even like all of it
Like even the bad ones you love if if you love the bad ones, then what's the point of your love exactly?
Maybe he thinks they're all the bad ones
What value does your love have?
He loves it unconditionally love is worthless
To a franchise of films that have very varying degrees of quality like holy shit
Like even if it's shit, I still love it. It's like well your love doesn't mean much
Well, it's gonna say at that point. It's like oh, so you just need your lightsabers and your spaceships and um
I don't know desert locales and then you'll be good i'm guessing there's nothing to do with the writing
It's like you're just a mentally handicapped person
Clapping on the screen as bright colors flash in front of you
Like all right
That brand deal
Yeah, ultimately would have loved to have seen lucas complete his nine movie vision
I think disney has breathed into it a new life. So do I so do we now breathed into it a new life?
Yeah, I picture this
A picture this sort of like adult male walking around the disney breathe into it
He just like crusts over and all of his skin starts to go all like thin and pale
He just like slowly turns into a skeleton. That's what they did to style
It's like this relatively healthy. Okay, dude, just living his life. So that's what style was this. Okay, fine
The disney like he just fucking falls over and turns into a pile of ash
They breathe new life
Makes total sense
Tonight future for the franchise, but if you really do believe that star wars is dead
Don't blame disney who thinks that well
People don't people don't say it's dead because it doesn't make money anymore
Like it's alive and well in that aspect
I think people would define it differently like literally with every person what it means for a franchise to be dead
Yeah, it's like game of thrones is dead for many people. It still made made a shit ton of money
Yeah, the highest ratings of the latest seasons was clearly not dead. You're like, uh, okay
Mm
Legacy is dead. Yeah, if you want this thing to get I mean if star wars is going to end right now, then no
Okay, they they made their money
They made their money back and if they don't produce anything else and they put a little cherry on top of this and it's done
then I guess it
It's not dead. They just ended it but it they wanted to continue obviously and it's dead
It's very dead. The legacy is dead. People don't care
At least it's at least relatively dead
Like this is the biggest franchise on earth at one point and now it's kind of like awkwardly trailing a lot of franchises
I look at the trailer reaction for episode nine that thing didn't scratch the surface compared to spider-man
I don't know like it feels very interesting to see that they can they MCU pass up star wars. Yeah, it's uh,
Uh, I figured it would happen. I didn't figure over to happen this fast
Uh, we'll see how long but
Was is dead don't blame disney blame yourselves
I killed star wars nice one rags
I I didn't mean to I just meant to wound it
Shot at the foot didn't mean to go for the kill shot
oh
At least we know at least we know to blame you
We can redirect the hate towards you now
How was um lightning round of hate for a lot of people anyway
You did
But you didn't you haven't explained to us. Why no, no, you spent 60 minutes just to tell us that he told us
He told us the still just the lucas was upset with people telling him he'd made a bad film
And so he sold it to disney and thus it's our fault
Oh
So if we told him movies then we wouldn't be what well the part that he forgot to mention was that uh
It's also george lucas's parents fault for birthing him and then it's their parents fault for birthing them
And then it's I guess
Um, it's rags parents fault for sure for killing for creating the person who killed star wars and then whoever invented film
Like whoever invented projectors
Do you go back in time to kill my parents to save star wars?
Mm-hmm
It's a quite a conundrum. Oh, this is a big question, man
If you're a first-time viewer to my channel and you've liked this video and you'd like to see some more then please not really
No, this no, this video is terrible. It was a waste of my life
Wait, why is one of his videos that are recommended star wars is dead to be?
I guess he's making maybe sort of parody or something. I don't know. Yeah
I don't know. Maybe
Star wars is dead to me star wars fans keep killing star wars
So we had how star wars fans killed star wars how we keep killing star wars
Star wars fans really killed solo
Did the solo boycott really work it's like well it lost money
Well people that's the fucking argument about captain marvel the captain marvel boycott didn't work because it made money
As if a boycott means that a thing cannot make money
Yep, it made money. Therefore. It's good. Oh, that's a good because it made money. Oh, yeah
Oh and star wars fans resurrected star wars and then killed it again. I like the idea that they killed it several times
You pesky star wars fans. You won't just let it rise again as a zombie corpse. You have to keep knocking her on the head
Like how x fill in the blank youtuber died
All right
Yeah, there's like growing and growing and growing a million of those for great and array and then he keeps like potentially bringing his channel back
So people have to like remake the how he died videos because he stops again for another year
So they're like, oh now he's really dead
Yeah, I think that um the way to definitively declare that star wars would be dead is that they start making
Films due to the fact that they can't make returns on them like they're releasing films that just aren't making money
That's when you know, the franchise is fucked
Yeah, then you'd have to wait a bit down the road for a reboot that gets people interested or something
Like a tron or whatever
And you know that happened with silos. So
Whoops
Not to say that that'll happen with episode nine. I think that people will be interested to see how this trilogy is going to end
but uh
Who knows after that who fucking knows dude?
No, not episode i'll be great
They're gonna they're gonna tie up all their loose ends. It's all gonna be neatly wrapped up
in a clear concise logical manner
Imagine they did that like unironically like all four of us come out of cinema and we say that was an amazing film
I mean, I that's what I want, but I don't think it's gonna happen
I'm just so unlikely because it's like oh my god, imagine
We're gonna get force ghost han
Well on solo force ghost why not I want force ghost um
Force ghost, um puffins. What are they called?
Perkins?
Porgs porgs, I went force ghost porgs
Then all they do is go
Whole film they just crawl up on dashboards
And all the kids clap it would make for a great film undeniably
Porgs really are what make star wars star wars. I love the porgs
Like jeff's video cooking one that's that's my favorite thing about them
They taste like chicken
I would hope so
Fucking chewy wouldn't be eating them if they didn't taste good, right?
That's true. That's like the most significant thing he does in that whole movie is eat a porg
So really it's true
Well that puts us at the end of that video, uh
We're at the um
The three hours and I I believe you guys said you had three hours free. So if you don't feel that you have to uh
Stay any longer, but I will make sure to do it
You guys want to talk about your channels for a bit?
I'll I'll have uh jeff. Do you want to go first? We'll get you get some shit plugged here
You guys uh can be found in places. Tell everybody where
Hey folks, well, sorry, I had some connection issues. So my uh, there was a slight delay when I spoke
That's why it sounded weird, but I host the channel world class bullshitters. We've been talking about star wars. We talk about geek culture
How the entertainment landscape is crumbling thanks to disney and all the stupidity that we see every day
Uh, so you can find me over there. We put out videos a couple of times a week
We have a podcast every thursday night. Thanks to disney. We're real interactive with the fans
So if you guys are looking for something to uh, you know get involved with rover in the fandom menace
Gary's a part of it. We cross over all the time and uh this tuesday night on my channel
We have a show called the high council, which mauler will be a part of now
So that'll be 9 p.m. Eastern standard time. You can figure out the rest of the world and uh, mauler is always
Thanks for having me on man. Absolutely, sir. It's always wonderful
um
Gary, would you like to share a few words about your channel?
Sure, uh, i'll keep this very brief. I talk about stuff. I don't like like star trek and star wars
I talk about stuff. I do like like the orville wars
You kill stuff and uh, I and I enjoy killing star wars
I want to kill it some more later right after I get off the air. I'm gonna continue killing
Because you know, I just want to copy rags basically
Uh, that's what we're all doing here on youtube though. I just want to inspire a new generation of star wars killers
Who are doing it so well?
I'll be live tonight at 6 p.m on my channel with
Doomcock you guys might remember doomcock and we do a show called the inquisition where we put pop culture on trial and tonight
We'll be talking about
the female 007
All right, which is kind of a hoodwink. Oh, yeah
There's a female 007. That article is a bit of a bait though
Right because I remember seeing the title and I was like they're making a fee and then it was like is it something to do with?
Uh in the film there's going to be an acting agent 007 that he's going to
Do I you probably have a much more information on this than I do we have replay
Uh, the the basic premise of the film is bond is retired
So he's in jamaica
and 007 is a
code
right that gets
Assigned to specific people
So they assigned it to a woman
And I think it's either a a very clever way to appease the 10 people on twitter who want a female bond
It's like here you go
You got it right here within the same movie and it's lashawna lynch from captain marvel, by the way
So it's the plank of woods person friend
But she she had such a great role. I
It was amazing iconic you stole the scenes iconic
Uh, she she had the as good of a blank expression as brie larson did I will say that
um, so she'll be playing uh a 007 so that uh, but phoebe waller bridge from fleabag
Is writing this and this was her idea i'm thinking
It'd be either setting stuff up for the future or
They are just going here's your female bond within a movie and now we're going to move on and actually just do bond stuff
which would be nice but
Sounds like it's gonna be you know
Well, there you go, you can catch coverage of that on uh, there'll be on neudrotic, right
Not brief my apologies
I don't do anything brief
And uh, uh
So thank you for having me thank you rags. Thank you. Uh mauler and jeff. It's good talking to you
Sorry, I got to cut out and thank you everybody in the chat
You guys are brilliant and i'll keep listening in the background if you guys are going to stay on
So if you want to talk shit, that's fine. I understand
We uh, well, uh, I imagine both of you gonna hop out and then mean rags will be uh, just
Chatting while going through super chats. I think will be the plan. Well, uh, we'll kill star wars a little bit more
I got a few uh, I got some time today nothing else going on
So I figure I could uh get in some star wars death and resurrect the old star wolves and kill it again
Then um, let dinner settle
Maybe a little dessert and then back to killing star wars. They like swimming. Do you have to wait 30 minutes?
To kill star wars after you don't want to get it
Okay
Well, if you get cramps while you're killing star wars that impacts future star wars killing down the roads
It does you want to pace yourself? You want to play you don't play the long game when it comes to killing star wars
You can't kill it just once apparently
no
Three times a day I got it
Yeah, so yeah kill star wars
um kill stars
Thank you guys for coming on it's been great obviously
See ya
I'll have you on soon. And yeah, i'll see you both soon enough. I imagine
That's tuesday night. Tuesday night. Yeah, yeah, dude
Toodly doodles
So glad they're gone
Now we can kill star wolves in peace. How much I can i've because i've been all this whole time
I just wanted to talk about how much I love star wars, but I didn't let them kill me
Um, I since since it's nice to have like a sort of three person thing
I've actually said uh jake and hop on if he'd if he'd like to so while we're just discussing topics
The jay guy some people like him. Yeah here get um
Get here i'll get dev on
who uh
Short fat otaku. I'm gonna message him. He's online. I mean
Wouldn't he what do you want to have him as a full guest rather than coming in on super chat, right? All right
How about let's get?
Let's um, let's get
Um
Let's let's meet a new jay here
I gotta find a way to get how about
Um, why not fringy? I don't think I think fringy's asleep right now
Fringy's asleep because he lives on the bottom of the globe
I mean he lives on the opposite end of the flat earth disc that spins around in space that we all live on
How do you know how do you do jay? How are you?
Oh, i'm turning great i'm getting criticized at the moment. It's really fun on your video or on something else
Well, no, um high top sent out a tweet. Uh, I just made a response to high tops video on um
Far from home funnily enough that kind of fits into the stream today
But uh, he tweeted about it it was it was a relatively harmless tweet
He's like i'm glad you got something from the film. I didn't i'm like
It's not what I was talking about but okay
I haven't seen your full video yet. I saw a bit of it
uh
Yeah, that's like
That whole tweet is just like all of the replies like wow, what a pretentious cunt that guy must be like what about you?
Yeah
You're not you're not pretentious. Yeah, the other thing maybe but pretend you are you are a cunt though
Yeah, you're not pretentious
I mean, we gotta give credit where credits do you're a very down-to-earth cunt
Yeah
Um, but how's your how's your how's the response to the video going? Is it relatively positive?
How's your it's uh, it's positive most other places but um
Yeah, that one tweet thread is like oof
Yeah, but it's like
If a tweet thread for me started with oh rags who's added to da da da. I mean, I wouldn't even finish it
I'm like, this is pointless. I don't even care
interestingly, um, like
Everybody wants me and rags and wolf and uh and fringy
I imagine to see the uh, the high top videos and we're gonna be looking at them next week
That is the plan and we'll be having
Adversity and fringy as guests because oh, yeah, I I meant it
I for some reason I convinced myself that I said it but I I guess I didn't because a lot of people have been asking
Um wolf isn't on this podcast. He was unable to make it and um
He won't be able to make next week's either. We're trying to re- sort of
Redo which days are doing what because I think that he's uh, his sundays are now unavailable
And it might be turning into saturday's which is good news for a lot of people. I think
Unavailable on sundays
Uh, well, he's working sundays now, apparently has he adopted a new religion where yes services on sundology are required to be
Devoted to the lord sundology. I see
They worship sunday. They worship sunday
Darnagy
Um, but yeah, I have seen his video and uh, man when he says that um
You can't have
Someone who's trying to like move on with their life and pursue things while also grieving something. He says like these two things
cannot coexist
Yeah, it'll be interesting
Let's uh, yeah, you know, so everyone will be able to see our response to that eventually and uh, yeah
Well, what did you you you you were here for a lot of debate jay? What did you think?
Um, I think homecoming is good and it's also different from the comics though
Which like I can understand why people would be upset about that, but it doesn't make it not good
I agree. Well, yeah, I mean that's pretty much where we stand. Um
I think I think they they sounded like they were on board with the idea that it was uh
Decent in terms of storytelling, but they uh, they're staunchly against the idea that it's should be considered
a strong spider-man story, which is uh
I think that's fair. Um, if I had read the books the comics the idea being that to be a strong spider-man story
You'd have to be adhering to the source material. Uh, if that was your metric
Um, i'm not like I I heard like the first half of it and then I I went away
But uh for the first half of it
I was basically hearing them go. Oh, yeah, but he doesn't have you know, it takes away his agency
And then I mean like but he does have loads of agency
Just he doesn't build his own suit
That doesn't mean he is it's like loads of criticisms like that that I was like, yeah
But he does do that just not in the exact way he does in the comics
So I don't know yeah, I think
Like I said, man, well if someone said that he was like, uh controlled or
Sort of pushed left right and center by tony in the whole film
I just feel like he pretty much subverts tony's instructions throughout the whole thing
Um
And some of it to his benefit some of it not. Um, but I should yeah, I was gonna say donna
Have the hopefully the discussion was enlightening for people who didn't understand one or the other sides. That's the main goal. I think
Because um, I wouldn't want to argue for it being a faithful adaptation because I don't think I would have any capacity to I just
Wanted to talk about it as a terms of writing
Well, yeah, I have no idea how faithful of an adaptation it is
Uh
From what I hear it's bad like because it's certainly not just those two
It's the thing that is like so many people come and go
Oh, it's a bad adaptation because of things like oh, he doesn't have agency in it when he does
It's just that's the the thing that what I often hear is that he should have
Almost strict agency in the same way that iron man has in his solo film
Like he shouldn't be in any way shape or form
Sort of coddled in any way like I said any character no character should be
uh
I don't know telling peter what to do or how to do it. I guess I don't know
Oh, it seems kind of arbitrary at that point like he's the same character, but he's in a different situation
Well, this is why I said i'm on board with essentially doing anything with a character if it's well written. Oh, yeah
Take uh, take batman and make him kill and you're like, how could you do that? It's against his character. I'd be like well, I mean
You know, there's gonna be a storyline. I I I don't know if people consider the dark knight batman to be
Like an assassination of batman's character, but he kills harvey den in that film
No, it's not like in comics
I don't know. That's another thing. I'm pretty sure there is a batman comic where he kills somebody, right? I could have sworn
No, I did a video on this I got loads of angry fans telling me that um, he does kill in the comics
Even though I didn't say he didn't
well
Yeah, and so yeah, that's the thing. Um, i'm gonna start reading these and this is going to get
awkward probably because there's going to be a couple of super jazz that are going to be arguments in favor or against
Written topics and we're going to be we're going to be talking about them without
um the other half of the debate here, so we'll have to do our best to try and
Represent the yeah, the first one is from james moor it just says so it begins like yes, we did it
We managed to complete. Oh james. Um, my uh, my switch arrived
Uh, so I do have it or those of you don't know james moor bought me a switch
So I got it
They arrived I have it and you have which games did you say was it smash brothers? I got smashed with it. Yes
I'm still and because I will be carrying it around I I opted to get a really nice case for it because it will be
Used and I will transport it from place to place. That is the plan here
I'm still doing the spirit mode or whatever. I think it's called
I'm like i've uncovered about three quarters of the map. Holy shit. Is that mode long, but i'm having fun
It's spirit mode. Yeah, it's like you you you're on this giant map and you fight. Um, those are different sort of modified
Battles, it would be like this battle. The enemy is metal and you stick to the ground like, okay
Okay, um, some of them are fucking hard, but yeah, i'm excited
I'm really looking forward to playing. My sister told me that mario kart 8 was really good
Yeah, so that's when i'm also excited to play it a lot of uh, love for that game as well
Um second super chat. Hi rags
Hello
Did you guys hear about 007 being a black woman in the next film?
Yeah, so as we were saying just before he left
I think it's a sort of bait is supposed to make us think that that's happening
But apparently she's taken up his codename while he's retired and he's going to get it back
I don't know. Apparently that's a plot in the film
007 has always been just a name that like
it's a
The james bond is the thing is that james bond has I think he's always been the 007 has always been
James bond is the character 007 is the codename
It's a it's a designation that's given to people for them to just
Which partially explains how it is that all of them are 007 and it's one big continuity, right? Is that?
I should know more about this because i'm british, but I
I mean it's blasphemy, but I actually prefer the mission impossible films to james bond films
I am a traitor
How could you a fallout isn't good you have to remember multiple faces
Oh, no, you have to remember multiple characters
Can you imagine a world?
Oh
Feels bad, man. I can't
I i'm not entirely certain on this but I swear I remember like there's a bond film where like
The previous 007 dies before bond becomes 007 or something but
You know, whatever james bond
It seems like the kind of thing that people would beat at the moment because it gets so many people angry and talking about it
Oh, yeah, dude, if they make marketing if they make the new 007 after daniel cree goes like a black woman
I imagine it's like well, we're going to be hearing about that for a long time
Yeah, and it's going to do really well for the movie because like
You know
There's going to be the people who are like, oh boycott and then for everyone it goes boycott
Someone else is going to be oh, I wonder what this is about
Um, hi rags
Hello. Hi. How are you?
The one after that is my wife left me
Oh, i'm so sorry about it. Well, no, you're a free man
Your shackles have been released stay up. However late you want you can eat whatever you want from whatever containers you please
You're free you did it
Oh look this one says maula. Hi. Hello. They don't say hi to me that much
What's up massives
Yeah, living the massive life. Um, how are you guys doing today guys doing? Okay?
I'm doing all right. Yeah
Hmm
I think jay's upset about the response to his new video
Yeah, everyone is wrong. So too many bad takes in the world
It begins people love my videos they make it great I like your videos too rag is
Yay, I think you'll like this next one. It'll be great
Praise the cosmic early this morning and my internet went out and I was like in this
Oh, and I was really powering through it and then the internet's like
Oh you kill self
Praise the cosmic chicken. I thought you lads canceled the stream. No it went ahead
Uh, can't wait to hear the arguments from both sides again. I hope that's what was achieved
Um, ultimately by the way because I I know people are asking me about this
It's like would you make a video for a homecoming? I do want to eventually it's going to be a long time
Because I've got a bunch of other things I want to do
but um with the amount of
Just looking into it extensively. I think there's a lot of stuff
I'd like to express in a video about why I think it's essentially the second strongest movie in the mcu
um
But like I said i've got so much other stuff to do
You know estimated time of arrival five years from now and that might not actually be a joke
I did say arrival. I mean
Wasn't the uh, it wasn't like your estimated time of arrival for use part three like three months ago, though
Did I have an estimated time arrival for that?
I thought I thought you
Predicted that you were going to get them out once every month. Oh god
Well if I said that I was very wrong, but um
I remember I was like two months or three months late with part two. So
Yeah
Basically, whenever you expect me to make something times it by like a thousand and then you'll be you know
Happy because i'll bring it out early because you wouldn't be a thousand years old by the time it brings it
Yeah, assume mauler is never going to make another video in his life and you will be a
Very satisfied customer. I can i've noticed there's this unrest in my in my fan base
Like they're like what's going on? Make an I think bro
Um, I can like I can upload a screenshot. I'll probably do it on twitter. Um soon
I'll put a screenshot of like my timeline right now with uh, the game of thrones video. It's enormous
It's hectic getting everything in order and all references, right and not to mention
Proof scrubbing the shit out of the video to make sure what i'm saying is as accurate as it needs to be
Has been uh has been trying
But um, it was only a month since my last video and I tend to take
Like how many months am I allowed before I have to make a video jay you're my manager. Tell me
Uh, you're not allowed any time off. You have to make really like if you've not released it
Okay, right if uh enough time has elapsed that people have finished a previous video you have to upload another one
Yeah, if to be fair if you make a video and it's an hour long
Then that is plenty of time for you to make another video and put it out. I mean that video you make
That's an hour video. You have plenty of time, you know, you can slow down footage, you know
And you're not even making your own footage using other people's footage. How how can that be?
That's true, that's true
I fucking been going about it all wrong
but um, what's funny is i've been on nidrot extreme like I want to say three times in the last month or so
And uh every time if you keep listening to it, you'll you'll catch my progress in my video because i'm working on it
But whenever i'm like talking to people typically unless i'm playing a video game for a bit
And uh, I think the first time i was on with him
I was still writing it and the last time i was on with him. I was talking about how i've got i've got like
Uh 15 minutes or more of of the visuals done
Which is we're getting close folks because when i'm on the visuals part things go much faster
Yeah, they take ages, but it's usually the last phase before, you know, q and a oh q a quality assurance, but yeah that
Basically when I show my friends and I go is it good and they go
Um
How do I put this?
And they send me lists of everything being wrong
more of egos blue cream
And so but I am considering um doing tfa part three and then game of thrones episode six of eight instead because
People really want more star wars content and i've got it all written out
So it's really a matter. I want to make both of those projects. It doesn't necessarily matter which one comes first
In this case because episode five is the one that really pushed me off
Take me ages to explain why
Yeah, why are you talking about spider-man spider-man is coming out
Not for like another spider-man three is not coming up for like three years probably
Qa quality insurance. I said quality assurance assurance not insurance. Well, you also want to have insurance for your quality
That's true
Also, if you make a shit video you get paid
Yep
But you've been paying the whole time. So even when you make good videos you pay a little bit
Oh
But that also means when you make a shitty video, you know comes back
Rags liked your video on far cry
Oh, thanks. I'm really glad I really glad you did
That game was okay
The hell is this mola, please say nico nico knee
Anatta no heart knee
What is this
Like i'm very concerned about what it might mean
They're gonna edit that. Are you saying something bad?
Igao todu karu
Yazawa nico nico knee. Oh god. That's all getting spooked
Uh far from home is second only to spider-man 2. Oh lucas ever it's really liked far from home
You're gonna go are you gonna be able to see it within the next week rags?
Yes, because uh, yeah, i'm very very curious what you're gonna think
The homecoming debate let the chaos begin. Hmm
Um, I don't think it's important for a story to have a theme or lesson to be good i'm no writer
But what do you guys think?
No, I don't I don't think you have to it doesn't have to no they can help, you know, but you know
It's a nice binding and it'll definitely give a strong subjective sort of um
Feeling for a lot of people to feel like everything came to a point. There was nothing in the movie that wasn't relevant. Uh
Not only its its own. Let's say character progression or part of the plot but also to a big old whole
It's very satisfying for a lot of uh viewers
Oh, yeah
Apparently wolf is here. Hello
What'd you do? Hello wolf
So kawaii
Kawaii
Nidrotic come over here and massage these tits you sexy. Fuck eric. You make some very strange super chat
I wonder if gary had seen that
life
Uh, there are two efap references in my new witcher 3 review when efap is over come to my channel and give it a watch
That's mark the cyborg spelt with a c then mark spelt with a c
Okay
Not cyborg wait cyborg cyborg is wait cyborg isn't spelt with a c. No
No, that one is too and it's all one word, but um, yeah, he's got he's got references to efap parent. Oh, okay
Also, hi rags
Hello
All right. Why are we still talking about homecoming? The lion king is coming out next week. I know
Oh god, it looks like an abomination
When I saw the uh
The singing bit and the comparisons I was just like oh, it's even worse than I thought it was
It's like I don't understand how people were comparing. Um
Like the facial elements they were comparing it to rocket raccoon from guardians
They were like how is it that he's so much more emotive than like every animal in the film so far that we've seen
I was just like I I don't
That's what makes rocket. So great too. Yeah rocket's awesome
Wow, can't wait to see him and thor
Here is five dollars in celebration of catching your stream in the first five minutes instead of the third hour. Well, excellent. Yay
Uh, hey rags when you're gonna get kyoti onto efap know that is or no that he's from he's from sargon's
Discord he's he's special. Oh, okay. He's a special man
We need a new tonal slash jared for season three and four
There you go. Well people say that clean prince gaming is actually worse than tonal
Um, is that well, yeah because I know him is the alternate, um
Sort of he him and tonal are essentially the same thing
Clean prince gaming has the exact same like thumbnails and takes and subjects and stuff
As far as i'm aware like we still need to cover him. I i've said that before and
Yeah, it feels bad that I still haven't managed to do it. But there's a lot of things we say we're gonna cover on here
It'll happen at some point, but he's worse than tonaled. He probably has a lesser entertainment value, but i'd be surprised if
Maybe
Maybe come on mauler is just an adaptation if you're referring to the lying king
It could have been good the live action like it could have been good
Yeah, could have the reason why it can't be and it might actually be faithful for all we know to the adaptation not necessarily in
visuals but in writing
Imagine I think it is actually isn't it supposed to be a one-to-one. That's what i've heard
I haven't seen it. Oh, really if it's the exact same thing in the story, but it looks that ugly as fuck
Why don't I just watch the original?
Yeah, um, maybe it would have been better for them to have adapted it and taken some liberties and
Told a different story. I don't know
It probably wouldn't because we know like it would in theory, but then in execution they'd fuck it up
It'd be like yeah, probably I was gonna I was gonna think of an example, but then I remembered I haven't seen the film so
Yeah, um, but the yeah like it being bad the the argument of it having like a horrifically bad
emotional sort of
Representation on the characters faces that's not even going to do with it being an adaptation or not
That's just uh, that could be an element that's wrong with any movie. Yeah, that's just technical shit
Which you'd think they would nail but okay
Oh
Awaken my masters. Also. Why are you talking about spider-man black female 007 is announced slice and dice brothers
Here you go musically, although I love jeff jeff and gary I can't wait to
Hear them admit homecoming is great and hear their arguments fall apart
I mean it was more it was it was two arguments being argued at the same time that I think were both valid
But different it's kind of confusing
There's definitely a lot of words involved that could have overlap and stuff, but um, hopefully you got what you were looking for
Uh rags i'm looking to build a pc money isn't too much of an issue. So what parts do you recommend?
I would recommend a case
And a graphics card is a definite. Yes
I'm gonna say i'm also gonna say yes on a cpu
You're gonna want one of those babies
Um, but I mean it depends on if you want anything. I mean it depends on
What you want specifically it depends on what frame rates you want to play but i'm actually not a huge tech guy
I haven't really been keeping up too much with a lot of the new a lot of the new components and things that have been coming out
so
What I would I mean just in terms of general information
I normally tell people that if you're going to buy a pc
It's generally good to splurge on it
Because it'll last longer and it will give you far more in returns than if you skimped
So that's my advice
And yeah, he said he said money's not too much of an issue
But i'm imagining he would want value for money not just to buy whatever's the most expensive thing. Yeah
But if you can generally get something that's better and will last longer and just give you better performance
Go ahead and go for that. That's me though
But also wolf once you're done with the efap book i'd love to work on the screenplay with you if you're interested
Well, I think they're calling sex tape a screenplay now no, it's odd
Yeah, that'll totally get adapted to screen and uh, it'll either be like the best faithful amazing adaptation or it'll be like
Really insulting to efap lore and the hardcore fans will be very upset by the representation of the cosmic chicken
And they'll probably fuck something up like um, who do you get to play such an integral?
Yeah, they'll probably get like michael cera and we're gonna be like, no, he's supposed to be kyle ban. You guys have fucked it up
Yeah, it'll be her
Um those changes on mcu spidey are apparently because sony don't want disney having more of the rights midnight's edge has a video explaining it
I'm, not sure which changes you're referring to specifically, but yeah fair enough
Jeff, give me a kiss
I'm, sure he would have if he was
Uh rags, doesn't apostrophe come after a name that ends with an s
It depends not always
Oh, it depends. I'm
Like is are you trying to like not for plurals?
You're trying to do possessives then. Yeah
Depends, um
I mean like what are you trying to do to the word that's it depends on what you're trying to do to the word
Put an apostrophe after it if it's possessive then yes unless it's it's in which case you don't
Yeah, because he said a name that ends with s so
Typically you're gonna have an s at the end of a name
If it's if it's one without an s naturally then it'll have apostrophe before but if it has one already then it goes after right?
That's how it works
Yeah, that's generally a rule that I understand and it looks less awkward, too
That's why whenever I pluralize my name, it's rags apostrophe and that's all that you really need
Because if it's just s apostrophe s it's kind of like
Hi rags, this is for you and thanks for recommending mordhau it's great. Oh, yeah, I really dig it
Uh maula, when can we expect your critique of mega shark versus giant octopus?
20
96
Is the slated delivery date?
um
But you got to apply more the time to it in the long game
You see in 20 96 all the all the videos that have been done about it will have been done already
So you got to wait a little bit after the rush of videos
So people think you have something really insightful to say yeah
The real discussion about movies of that caliber take place much longer after it releases
You can't have a hot take on mega shark versus giant octopus. You need to have a lot of uh
prep work a lot of detail
A lot of themes in those movies. Oh, yeah, like if your if your take is that it's bad
Then obviously that's a very hot take
Uh, hello rags
Jeff this one's for you to go buy a holdo figure
Oh, yeah, that's right. Oh, I should have picked holdo. She's my favorite
For the question, I feel so bad for any child that was given a holdo doll
Yeah, she'd be like
Well, maybe the parents failed I don't know I don't know jay
Uh, why are we talking about spider-man when james bond just died? Sorry jeff
Well, sorry jeff. Sorry jeff
So y'all the actor is playing the female black james bond yet
Oh
The one in that captain marvel's friend. Yeah, that's i'm assuming if you're talking about that one
Then yeah, apparently it's captain marvel's best friend from captain marvel
Oh, she's cool. I mean
For the five minutes we saw her of her. She seemed fine
She was emotive and
Not wooden and
She was yeah, she was better than captain marvel for sure
If only she had been captain marvel, maybe maybe the movie would have
It I swear i've heard in the comics that character ends up taking up the mantle of captain marvel of something like that
That'd be nice take it go for it. Yeah, anyone besides gree larson. Yeah, maybe they'll do it. Yeah
Fun thing. I ran a poll on twitter like a few minutes ago before a few minutes before I I joined the stream
asking if
More people want drac's to head the mcu than people want captain marvel to head the mcu
I would absolutely be down drac's but he's so great
Oh my god now I want to see him commanding the avengers in like a battle scene just to see what he'd say
You fly man for it drac's is such an underappreciated character. I love him. He's so great
I love the in the second guardians film. They gave him so much material to work with
like, uh
Fucking hilarious while also having like a background that's actually very fascinating to me. But um, yeah
More drac's so well, it's like, um comic relief
But also this the scenes that have played straight with him are so like impactful
It's they have a delicate balance that they pull off there
So are y'all charging area 51? I think rags you're doing that. Yeah, let's do it. Yeah, absolutely. I will send a drone
20th, right?
September 20th, I heard was the date we're gonna storm area. Luckily. We've made our battle plans at the time of the assault public knowledge
That's why d-day worked so well
Because they knew we were coming just picturing this big charge of people. They reached like a gate or a door. They're like fuck
What do we do?
Like today we'll bring like I don't know
skeleton key or some kind of
Wire cutters or something, right?
Hey, well, this is the thing that's when a line is crossed
I haven't a bunch of people run up to a place like that'll be funny
But then if someone's like throw a grenade to try and blow up like a thing to get it up like uh, oh
That's the thing
If anyone shows up if anyone actually shows up someone will actually try and get in and then get arrested
That's how it's gonna go
And if that actually happens, who even set that up and why did it like get traction?
Oh, that's just a funny meme
It was a meme and it became something more
Um
I had a father. His name was ben parker not tony
Oh
Maybe in that continuity
Movie binge update 300. Well, it's a movie mostly style and not much substance though. I saw someone on imdb unironically call it racist
300 is what racist lion king. No 300
300 now is 300 racist
Is it because all the Spartans are white so many possible ways I was about to say yeah
Why are you even the greeks for white?
Fucking of course, what else would this blame for you? I don't fucking know
It's the hole that you get the guy gets kicked into his blackness
It suggests that people who are darker the black man gets kicked into the black clothes
If you want to punish people you get them close. No, no, it has nothing to do with that dude being black
Is he black? I can't remember. He's black. Yeah, i'm pretty sure he's black. Does that come from
Black as a whole yeah, I come from another place
Which is you know the blacks they're from a different place. He sends him back down the black hole, which is where they all spawn, right?
I don't know. I'm asking. I thought that was a part of the law of 300 black hole. I can't fucking do that
Jesus man, maybe I misunderstood the law fine
Goddamn, that's white people spawn from clouds and fall from the sky and only a few of them survived the impact. Oh god
Babies like there it was the land of the ocean they get picked up
Um, then black people spawn from holes. Uh, and but only a few of them can climb out of the holes. What about halfcast people?
Uh, they just they just get born normally
Oh, well the more you know
I hear that's a no-no word. I hear that's not one you're supposed to say but normal you guys keep calling them black
Halfcasters want to hear you're not supposed to say
Halfcast yeah, oh, what's the what's the correct term?
Uh, I don't know is it people of color the one that i've never understood
Mixed race I think would be the specific acceptable term
Oh, there we go
Might be something different in in three minutes though
Uh, gary here's a freeholdo figure for you, too
We'll make a note
Um
Can't watch live but wanted to put my bit towards the rhino farm fund also homecoming was a good film money split evenly, please
It shall be done
Why did you do this very good film? Yeah
I I mean well everybody has a different take on that rags. Did you know that?
You're gonna let people have an opinion rags, hmm
Nope
You killed star wars
Oh, yeah
Where is wallow if this is for him? Also, I want to send him a ryan johnson bobblehead, but I don't know how to
I I would actually love they make those to have a bobblehead of ryan johnson
I mean you could probably get someone to custom make one, right? I don't know
Yeah, i'm giggling it but
molar
Molar i've noticed in recent streams
You've been very dismissive of the adaptation argument and so i'm curious what your take is on batman doesn't kill argument against bvs
Uh, i'm not dismissive of the adaptation argument. I treat it as a separate
Entity of like the quality of an adaptation will usually be dependent on how faithful you are to the source by definition. Imagine
uh
And that doesn't always necessarily lead to good things like what if you have a source
Story that is poorly written. Are you supposed to be faithful?
Or are you supposed to take what they failed to to I don't know realize correctly
And improve it. It's a complicated discussion. And so
The idea that something is not in continuity with something else when they're separated by
Adaptation, I think that the the ruling that they have to adhere to certain rules is a little bit too
Stifling of it. So the idea that should batman be able to kill in an adaptation
My question wouldn't be that it would it would just be what story did they create with the resources they had?
And you know, they may have deviated very far from the source
But as long as it's all very justified with like cause and effect writing, I wouldn't necessarily have an issue with it
But if someone said but it's a poor adaptation, it's completely unfaithful. I'd be like, oh, well, yeah, probably maybe I don't know
I'd have to check it. Um
If if it literally comes down to it's not one-to-one and it's not uh adhering to the important parts of the character or something
I'd be like, oh quite possibly but um
Um
the the comparison I think
Uh, i've been i've been talking about with fringy as well. It's like if you had
What everyone agreed upon to be an amazingly written story about a hero that kills to protect his world or whatever
It's like finalized completely
Everybody loves it and then like the day before release they just changed the main character's name from tom jone to uh to bruce wayne
And it's like does it therefore make all of the writing bad?
I mean we try to get that across with um changing Ben's name to uncle
Uh bob or whatever I said
I think it's ridiculous to say that it thus turns the the writing bad. Um, I think it's fair to say
It turns it into a poor adaptation though
Yeah
And that's my take trade off sometimes with this kind of thing like
Uh say people want to start adapting this stuff and like a hundred years from now
Like look some of these names that can I mean superhero names already kind of sound like oh you can tell when this came out
like oh carol, uh
Like bruce, you know, they're all sort of the same sort of era of name
So like at a point where you're trying to put that in a modern in a modern setting
If you take that uh, if you take that so far enough that it would kind of seem strange to have like that name in a modern
Setting then you can have a trade-off between okay
Do we actually adapt it faithfully or do we give them a name that they would actually have in this saying?
Uh at that point you can make arguments both ways that it's a a worse adaptation, but a better
Film because it's a less faithful thing because of the name changing
and um
Uh shad was actually talking to us about how in the comics apparently spider-man's name is, you know discovered by everybody
And it's undone
By like a mass
Someone's gonna have to crack me on this because I haven't read them. I can't quite remember what he said
It's something like a mass spell
From like dr. Strange or something. Somebody does a thing and it makes everyone forget what spider-man's real name is
And he was like that shit and I hope they don't do that
And I was just like but wouldn't it be unfaithful of them not to but it would be like the comics again
And so so he was like, oh, yeah. No, there are some things that uh, you probably shouldn't
Remain faithful to I was like, yeah, that's that's um, that's interesting
um
And so yeah to give you another example that I often use is that uh,
I was getting more and more frustrated with game of thrones for not involving a lot of the elements of the books
Um, just saying stone heart will let everybody know who's a fan of the books understand that pretty quickly
But I wasn't quick to say something like it's bad because it doesn't have stone heart
It's it's bad for many other reasons and then
My initial take on what they do with tyrian at the end of season four was that like they fucked it up
Because they didn't do everything they're supposed to do in the books
But they you know, if you were to tell me can you argue why it's bad without even a single reference to the books?
I'd be like, yes, I can and it comes down to the fact of motivation and uh,
a lot of confusion
on exactly what the hell is going on between
Shay and tywin tywin and tyrian and and how everyone sees each other and what everyone's doing in those scenes
It's very confusing compared to
It almost feels like there's a missing element
And then you reference the books the books have this this element that binds all of it together and you go
Oh, that's how that happened
They didn't bring in this element
Then you find out a quote from the writer saying that they didn't have the time to put it in
I think is what they said about what i'm referring to
All of that makes sense in a meta view
But it would still not be relevant if it was really well written within the show's continuity
But I would argue that it really isn't it like fucks a lot of things up
um
And yeah, uh, oh, it was cool. It was mefesto in one more day mefesto
I guess did it who by the way, i'm very interested to see if they bring mefesto into the mcu because he's kind of cool
I only know him from video games, but um, he's a good his name. Isn't me fisto
Mephisto i'm actually not sure exactly how you're supposed to pronounce it but that's whatever I said was whatever I
Um, yes, the emotional impact is definitely washed down, but I almost think it doesn't even make sense. Um, a legacy
Anyway moving on spider-man homecoming is objectively good. The dawn did the dawn say that
That must be true. Yeah
Mysterio was a bad villain in far from home. Well that will be yeah
Well, we can't say anything because rags hasn't seen it. So give it a shot
Um, we will we'll try and discuss far from home. Uh
much more extensively next week, um for anybody who's curious about it
Morley a gay you do that
His gay what?
I don't know something about my gay
Uh, why talk about spider-man spider-man's out. I wish to see this gay
Oh, that's very true
My main problem with new spider-man is that he doesn't have consequences really for either homecoming or far from home
Oh
What?
Yeah, I know. I know it's it's a bizarre thing that people say and I I don't know I can't quite um
I understand why people reach that conclusion from homecoming
I do not understand why they reach that conclusion in far from home considering what happens and I do not get that whatsoever
But you can do this without spoiling it because it's so obvious. You can literally just say did you not watch the scene?
The scene and everyone knows what you're talking about
Like that's how obvious it goes transgender surgery
Maybe he does we can't spoil it
We can't now say that that doesn't happen because rags would like to think that that might be a possibility
Nobody ruin it for him. Jesus
You masses are the only thing keeping me at my job
Thanks for the pain you basement dwelling nerd sweat smelling rhino milking hate mongering autistic keyboard gremlins never change
Anytime the very sweet part about that
My favorite part about that is how super chats get more expensive the longer they are
So every insult cost more money
Wait, do they I love that. Yeah, they do that's the more you give you see
You see if you ever gave super chats every once in a while mauler, you would know this
But the more you pay the longer the message gets to be
Is that well, I just assumed that there was a cap regardless like i'm assuming you can't write an essay or anything, right?
I think you can but it has you have to like you have to pay like a thousand dollars
I think literally it's just like I think it might just be like a one-to-one ratio with the word count and not the word
Count but the character count for the money or something like that
You get more the more you pay essentially they're like tears there are levels
I mean, I don't know if they put a cap in because that would prevent like
Why would you put in it like, you know, then people are going to pay less money if someone wants to fucking
Paste a book into a super chat. I was willing to pay for it. I don't know why youtube would cap that
Oh fuck. I've I forgot to bring it up
Huh, there's a clip on twitter from do you guys know the name john campier do either of you know that name?
No
So I know that will cast bullshit as a nidrotik would both know him
They consider him quite the shill for like new uh new star wars films. He's reading off super chats
This clip man. He reads a name. I want to find it because it's so much funnier if you just listen to it
Oh, how am I gonna find this somebody who shared it?
Some people in chat probably know what i'm talking about. He's reading out
Super chats and he finds the name of one of them funny
But he doesn't realize what the name is trying to say
Um, it's like three words broken up when you put them together. It says something very different and he just reads it out without realizing
Yeah
Does anyone know where I can find that because I want that I want
I kind of want to play it and watch together
The lord of the shills
Can't um, yeah, I can't remember who on twitter shared it. Somebody liked a clip of it somewhere
It's all right. If I find it i'll put on the next defap. Um, we will have fun times with it
um
Mueller if you want to see spider-man at his best watch the two season spectacular spider-man show that is peter parker
Not some childish little doofus who leeches off iron man
All right
There's a lot to unpack there. Yeah, there's a little you know
I just i'm going to take him for his word that uh, the spectacular spider-man show there's two seasons of it apparently
It's very good. There it is
Uh, thank you guys for everything even on the day I had to put down my dog. You guys made me smile. Thanks for that
I'm grateful. Oh, yeah. Jesus. That sucks, man
Oh, yeah
Um hang in there. Yeah
Oh
Uh adaptation argument is for the gaze the dawn
From creamy sheave as well. So
You have a very trusted source talking about another trusted source making a statement. That's absolutely true. That's just
Do you like nerd writer's channel? I think we had that question last time. Um
I like some of his videos. I don't like some of his videos. I hate how influential he's been on how people design
video essays
That's my quick take yeah, you like him right trouble person, um, I can't remember which one he is
That's a really good side, isn't it?
He sort of blends it he's the one that has like
Is it like a coffee mug that has a spoon in it at the beginning or or is it like an actual soup bowl?
I can't remember. Oh this one
um, I swear i've seen
some of his videos but
None of them show up has watched for me
Hmm
Oh, yeah, he did the one on like donald trump's speech patterns, right? Yes
This is a strange video that he had made considering he was very focused on media, but yeah
They showed that um video in my english class when I was in high school. Wow
That was fun. Uh, the problem is that tony stark has replaced uncle ben as peters moral compass
Is
That true like uh, first of all, I don't know that that's a problem and secondly moral compass
What is peter parker's moral compass in homecoming
He goes against loads of like the like maybe
I mean he says don't get involved and peter does for the greater good. So you could argue there that peter's
ignoring
Uh, i'm as moral compass. I don't know
He already has this like with great power comes great responsibility line like right when he's introduced like he's already got it
I'm possibly i'm still stuck in the idea. It's like it's bad that it comes from him instead of uncle ben. I'm like why though
Yeah, because it's not like the comics
Uh, my issue with homecoming is flash even michael sira would have made for a better convincing high school bully
Bully's come in all shapes and sizes. Mm-hmm. I mean, he's not really much of a bully in this even like you see
He's just more of a guy. I don't think the films were trying to project him as a very effective bully
He's almost a heckler
And it's like well, you need to have a bully in peter's story and i'll be like, okay
Do you like could you just have the guy who's an annoying asshole
I'll say he could he I could see him fitting so easily. I believe him like in far from home. They kind of
Caricature his character a bit but in homecoming
Like he would he felt like a real guy that I would have met at high school
Well, I wasn't bullied all the time I wouldn't know
Oh, look at mr. Mr. Was the bully over here. Wow
We just established that flash wasn't bullying but you know
Wasn't bullying but you're a bully
Hey, why are you bullying rags, dude?
Yeah, I wish you'd kind of quit
It's bad enough that you have a hatred for the lgbt
Oh, it's because it's because you're a furry
I'm not a furry though
No, it's well, I don't care appearances is what I go off of. Hey, why does your profile picture have a shield?
You go around calling every dog a furry. Oh, it's kind of weird
Well, do they have fur?
That's what I thought some some do wait aren't wait are all mammals furries
Um, yes
All right
Okay, I am a I am a mammal
The clip the clip was found
I'm gonna send it to you guys
Fours at like zero and then we will play it all at the same time. So it's a twitter video. I don't think you can put them in the clip
Like i'm assuming this will work
You
You guys ready
Yes, okay three I closed my watch together, you know, it's all good though. We'll just sync it on twitter 27 seconds
three, okay
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, we're it's starting at what time zero
Zero, okay
Yeah again context. This guy's just reading out. You can already see the joke on screen
But we'll just go from zero three two one go
All right, uh smelly negro. I love that name
Uh, which uh, hi
How do you be that stupid
Smelly me yeah, how did you fall for that? So yeah, just all right, uh, smelly me grow I love that
Yeah, it's all on my phone I was like that can't be real how do you be that stupid
The fact that he says I love that name as well you're like, oh
This would be so bad it's just audio what's the thing that could actually get him in some trouble i'm not sure
You know these days
Oh, are you kidding? You see what people get in trouble for these days?
Yeah, but he's got like the evidence very clearly there. Oh evidence. Oh uj, you're so naive
What do you mean evidence that he made a mistake that there's context to what he said. Is that what you're saying?
Yes
Well, we'll see
Maybe maybe some people will be like, oh he's a bad but the like majority will come down on this like and see this
Like it's not like pewdiepie's career was destroyed he's doing fine. No, but he took it down for sure
Yeah, I mean you think he would if he was a smaller channel
Yeah, yeah, you are talking about the biggest youtuber on the platformers platformers what platform?
I can't think of a smaller example right now
Well, yeah, it's fine also pewdiepie did nothing wrong
Hey mauler, thanks for the video essays and efaps past
I hope you continue to make certain hosts such good and bad, but funny debates long into the future
Yes, thanks to rags and wool for their content, too
Yay, thank you
Molar and rags are right about spider-man the dawn creamy sheave just running out all these dawn quotes
Starting to wonder if you really got them from the dawn or not. It's uh
How do we how do we know for sure? Hello molar rags
Someone's got a question. Hi
Yeah, sorry. Hello molar rags jeff and gary. I must must ask
What are all your thoughts on the upcoming live action lion king remake any specific prediction like shit?
It looks really ugly. It looks weird. It looks awful
um
Is I just you get the the old good old-fashioned question of why?
like for all of it, uh
But if you're gonna do it, could you not?
Fuck it up a lot
I've already heard this getting bad reviews, too
And I was just like oh damn is this going to be the first live action disney remake that like gets panned critically
I don't know if any of them have been so far jay. Do you know about that? You're a nude
no
I just assumed that people are rational like that's my mistake, but I did your mistake
Uh, I have posted con of thrones vids on my channels, uh or channel
One of the vids is four minutes long with a jamie actor discusses his thoughts on season eight's writing
You're welcome to share and discuss my vids
Actually, I've seen a few clips of that
He says something along the lines of um
He would share like infusions or criticism of what jamie is doing in the later seasons and they would be like go away
like okay
Not to say that whenever an actor complains they are right, but it's interesting
Ooh, er posted a video a lot of people was what's the topic?
Oh, he's criticizing us
At least I think it is what
Actually, I don't know. It's just the last of us. Oh, I mean the film us
Yeah, no, not us us. Fuck. I was like what I love how my brain didn't process that at all
It was like the film us jay. What are you talking about when I say us? It's obviously the film
Um
Yeah, i'm not actually well i'll check that out late i'm alla go full critique anything new from him
Well, that's because you're a bad person. I don't know
I'm alla go full critique on endgame. Maybe one day i'm not against it. I actually would be interested in doing a full breakdown of it
I get messages, um every day of both can't wait for your endgame praise and can't wait for your endgame rage and i'm like
Oh
Nobody said your endgame meh, so I guess
People feel strongly one way or the other
A bad adaptation does not mean objectively bad movie
Kind of how I feel about
Just a daily reminder that spider-man punched a redheaded woman to death in a graveyard. That is all
What
Why does why is being her being a redhead significant there?
I mean no, she has to have red hair like the comics
He punched her to death at a graveyard race. Like that seems to be the more important a little bit of it
No, no, as long as she had red hair
Well
I'm assuming that's some kind of
Horrible flashback or dream sequence even though something kind of I don't know interesting thing if it's true
Hello nerd Rotic hello jeff from world class bullshit as guests of efap
Do you think if someone got herpes from drinking bathwater bought online they deserve it. Well, they're not here to answer that question
It's gonna happen
The dessert the bathwater herpes deserve it question the new episode nine question
Morley you never continued the game of thrones rage. Would you would love to see the finish of season eight? Oh, it's on the way
Iron man is the best part of mcu spider-man and that's its biggest problem
Second is fake mj who's barely in the film and still manages to turn everyone against her
Thirdly spider-man is too whiny
No
So fake mj, that's interesting, uh
In everyone against her does he do you mean like in a meta sense because the people in the film like her by the end of it
Um, I assume that must be a meta sense, right?
What's the thing I didn't hear
Let's say yeah, that's not true because like everyone I know who's seen that film loved her
Myself included. I wouldn't do it. I mean when you say that film who do how many people you're thinking about when you say that?
um
Probably like four
I was gonna say I don't know anybody who's loved her if someone said they loved her i'd be like wow
She was barely on screen
But like, you know
You know like enjoyed her presence significantly like she's great kind of a level
Yeah, fair enough, um, that's the thing I I don't really I didn't think too much about her in the film, um
Oh, and I saw a weekend warrior put out a video
Uh recently like as in like an hour ago or more probably more than that because we've been streaming so like five hours ago
but he said, um one of his biggest criticisms of
I was about to say but I guess rags
If you know if you've seen the trailer rags peter's interested in pursuing mj in the new film
um, okay, and uh
We can worry his problem with it is that uh, we don't
Homecoming didn't set up that peter was interested in her
um
And that's a criticism a lot of people have and I just don't really
Understand like do you need a justification for a boy to have a crush on a girl when they're?
16 years old some of these people i'm like, have you ever like?
Like do they not have like boyfriend girlfriend in real life is because that's
it
If she's a girl and you're a boy, that's the justification
I mean like i i'm in the middle camp of it would be nice to see
Them develop it further, but i'm fine with how that's what far from home is
Like no, but like it would be nice to see it would be nice to have an in-between stage where they
start like
Where that like where peter start seeing her that way instead of going from off to on
Well, that's the first moment is the off to on
No, it's not like the first moment is like, um
I was in like a development of his feelings not just a oh, I like her now
Well, you liked her
No, shut up
um, yeah, I uh
Well, I guess so is the question like if we get like a conversation where
They're talking about normal things and then he sort of realizes. Hey, I kind of actually like the scale. That's what you're thinking about
Yeah, like they could have done that over a whole movie
Um, like that would be spiderman 2 and then the arc we got in this one would be in the third one
Yeah, see so my take would be that um
He's developed a crush on her in the time
We haven't seen in between thingy and thingy and then this movie is developing how they feel about each other
How they work together who they are
I mean, yeah, of course, but like
of course it happened in the time that we didn't see them but
I I think it's it works fine the way it is
But it could work better if we see it develop
I think like if she was cardboard though, she didn't really say anything and then they kiss at the end of the movie or something
I'd have been like wow
crap
But uh, yeah, all we have to go on is he's just like man. I have a crush on it
What do and then antics ensue and development ensues? So I just yeah
I don't see the issue as I guess my take
Would it be improved by a scene in which there is some form of a stepping stone between zero feelings and some feelings?
I don't think it would hurt
Someone just tweeted at me specifically to tell me they hated her
All right. I know a lot of people who hate her
Uh, like I said when you said the four people loved or whatever. I was like, wow
I don't hear that a lot
Um, it's an interesting super chat a lot of soy from mauler and rags crying good
Well, no, we were trying to explain how it was good
But they weren't having any of it because it wasn't like the fucking comic book
Oh actually this person said crying good as if our argument was that crying is a good thing
I don't know. I don't understand the argument that crying is a bad thing. I don't know
I
Don't know man, especially if you like the rabies trilogy
He cries all the fucking time with this
He's a 15 year old kid who is trying to shoulder a lot of responsibility who brushes against death
Like I think it'd be weird if he didn't cry. Yeah, like if he was stoic i'd have been like man
Quite the constitution for his robot child
Crying man bad
Uh, yo, yo my fellow massives you've helped me my who've helped my writing a great deal with these vids
So, thank you p.s. Ryan johnson has a small dick
How do you know that?
Uh, I was 10 hours into an eight-hour work day when I happened upon a critique of tfa hearing a good argument is energizing
Twas an easy 15-hour work day
Oh, I mean that video is in 15 hours. So unless you played it on point two five speed
Which would be an interesting experience. I imagine
I hope the work day was improved by it though. Thank the thank you for the uh, letting me know
Good shit
I had a near fatal car accident. You don't cry. You don't realize it afterwards. It came to me and I was nearly dead
I don't know when the buildings when the buildings actively on top of you. I feel like at that point despair would set in
Yeah, especially when in the scene he tries
Quick and sudden oftentimes
Uh, he's trying to move it
He's struggling to breathe and then he's like almost resigning himself to the idea that he's stuck under here and he could die. It's like
Yeah, that's when you might cry and then he does he gives himself the pep speech, which I really like because it's really good
People are going to react differently to near-death situations. That's not that too
Everybody's a bit different down to the moments, but I wouldn't I wouldn't say that it's um
A sudden thing happens and he's suddenly gushing tears. It's uh, it falls on him. He tries to lift it up
He can't do it and then he starts despairing and and shouting for help
I think it would be reasonable to start tearing up at that point. Wouldn't you say guys?
Yeah, i'm sorry he's a bitch
Hey guys, what's the efap opinion on black mirror?
Um, I haven't seen black mirror when he saw the one episode I liked it, but apparently it was the best one
It was like the white christmas or black christmas or something like that. It's oh, that was great
There you go
I've seen a few episodes and the ones i've seen were great
I've only seen like the highlights. So
Spider-man is hella gay. Oh, well hashtag make
Hashtag make peter care about ben's death again
He's probably gotten over it
That's what I mean is you have to have that that's that's you need the that to do the rest of the stuff you can't have it be
A different father figure with a different dynamic that leads to different results. It has to be the same one
Every efap where maula doesn't ask his guests about the gamergill bathwater question is illegitimate. I think that's fair
Hmm
Um, no disrespect gentlemen, but these arguments amount to I don't like this vision for adaptation reasons and have nothing to do with
Its objective quality also high rags
Yeah, it's a shame
I mean they did specify that they they said like a film the film as a standalone film
They didn't at any point say it was bad. Gary to say it was boring
And that it's not yeah, it's subjective. Well, yeah, I mean it was boring at all. Well, yeah, I wasn't bored
I had a lot of fun
Uh, you should get tim pool as a guest. I'm sure doggo can get his contact info
Um, man, i'd love to have tim pool on what would we cover?
Was he interested in he likes movies? I assume he made he made he hated cap marvel
Damn, he should have uh, he should have come on for those captain marvel episodes. That was good shit
He could have met the dog asking you to with number of people asking you to do cinnaboo wins captain marvel are you gonna? Um
I I was about to say
Do people want that but i'm like it was probably a pointless question because I think they're just gonna say yes like um
So many people have like explicitly asked for it. It's been one of the most requested things i've noticed in a while
Well once maybe once he releases part two as well, so we can do one and two with part two is out
Okay
What did gay? What is your take on part one and part two of cinnaboo wins his video on captain marvel?
I couldn't be bothered to form opinions on it. I think he said some things
Uh and some of them weren't ways
That's very controversial. I like that you took some of it some I thought his jokes were funny, but
like
I I can't remember. I know I disagreed with him, but I can't like at points
But I can't remember about what or how often anymore. I think i've just blocked it out of my mind
Uh, well, yeah, that's a possibility then we that could definitely happen down
I I think that's the stuff that that's that's there that genuinely sounds like it's a response to
um
I mean it feels like it would be a direct response to like even following my video on it where i'm talking about how uh
She is like killing the dude the killing the cardboard cut out
But I know a lot of people have probably talked about that but
Yeah, he does. He says stuff. That's like directly response responding to those criticisms
And I I don't think his take is very good on it
But I can't remember why I just remember like going that's not a great take
Um
I've never i've never seen lord of the rings make me want to watch it massive
I mean we've talked about lord of the rings a whole bunch on this podcast
Value great writing stellar acting the sets and the props are all incredible. It's so well paced it
Ah, it's everything about it. It's just so good
But watch the hobbit first. So it's in chronological order. No
Uh, the biggest unseen argument between the two sides is the cultural values the different spider-mans espoused
in their depictions
Cultural values
I'd be interested to see that developed. I'm not sure what you're referring to and it ends with rags. Stop being a dick
How not being a dick
Daddy, it hurt when I pee, right?
Does wolf have the big gay? Yes
Nerd rata keeps saying objectively. I don't think you know what that means. I I think he was using it mostly correctly
He was he was openly admitting that he's not necessarily being objective about um, the arguments he was using
that is
Is his experience with spider-man since age four? I think is what he did he say age four?
six, I can't quite remember but he said that um,
definitely
affecting his sort of
Enjoyment of the film I guess
Um, at least spider-man is actually a teenager this go around instead of 30 all of that adaptations had issues
The new movies are good and fit in the mcu. Could they be better? Sure
No, you're not allowed to say the remit trilogy had problems. Oh, no
Maybe that's the third one. That's fair game
Maybe he's not understanding a shared universe. Toby spider-man was a standalone movie. Well, this is the thing I think that um
The idea that you would ignore the mcu as a whole when you're bringing spider-man into it is is uh detrimental to the the
The continuity that he is now in he's not just
Spider-man in marvel's film adaptations. He's spider-man in the mcu
And uh, yeah, it works out great for captured marvel, right?
Maybe one day we'll get um a new version of spider-man again like only we'll try again
They'll reboot again and ever we could get another
I mean, do you mean peter parker or spider-man because we're totally gonna get another one
We could get a miles morales or um the other the other names he was mentioning or peter b parker
I
Mean if they do the multiverse thing we can get toby mcguire in it
Tobis mcguire
Yeah, i i'd love to see that
Um as a kid, what if they come what if they got andrew garfield but not to be required?
Oh my god
There would be riots in the streets
As a kid you wanted to be spider-man but not peter parker and that's the point of the character this ferris bueller version of spider-man ruins that
Um, I think plenty of kids would want to be the tom holland spider-man
Yeah, well, you know, it wasn't I I heard the criticism being of uh, that you would want to be him as peter parker as well
Well, this dude which has said you wanted to be spider-man but not peter parker
yeah
So the criticism there could be that you don't want to be spider-man or peter parker
Or that you want to be spider-man and peter parker or that you don't want to be spider-man, but you do want to be peter parker
Would you be weird? Yes
Okay
Stroll poll you massives. I didn't I didn't know if there would be a point in doing a stroll poll
Like what would the question even be?
Like oh just do another one on the quality of homecoming because last time we had 60 40 and see if it's changed
Well, we didn't even get to talk about the quality. That's the thing
I mean, I got to talk a little bit about what I thought was strong about the movie
I didn't get to talk about everything but you know
um
Are you saying you want to do the same question jane see if you get a better split this time
Yeah
You're gonna say i'll set it up if you want. What was your question the first one? You should just do the same one
What's homecoming good? I think it was
Oh, well, yeah. Okay. Yeah, just set up and uh ping me the link and I will spam it in chat for everybody
Uh thoughts on disney's crusade
It's okay thoughts on disney's crusade through the entertainment industry
Is there practice of annexing and exhausting valuable ip's and major content distributors going to suffocate aspiring creators and visionaries?
Possibly we could also possibly be in a position where they're going to
allow the
sort of
the opportunity for new creators to rise through
I don't know
some kind of like
clogging of of of the movie industry so that people are desperate to find something new and then someone provides it that sort of thing
So maybe um, so here is the straw poll
We will post it a more than once. I imagine I um
Uh, just just just give you a vote. Yes or no, and I know that that's like, oh, it's not a very
Um good poll. It's not a very good set of answers. We're just going to compare it to last
How dare you disrespect the poll lights put my blood sweat and tears in tea
Ignore this j character. He's not real
You have to do you have a link to the previous one by the way, you could probably get it from
I was looking for that
Yes, I was I was wondering if I tweeted it or if uh, I put it in the description a good question
If I didn't that means i'm gonna have to like go through the actual stream and try and find it
Or I link it in the chat
Yep, looks like I didn't link it in the description my bad
Well, we'll just have to try and figure out comparing it at some
Either way, I remember it was about 60 40 so
Well, don't don't jump the gun there j anything can happen with this vote. Yeah anything can
How many people have voted yet?
Freaking j being all like ooh, so he is good now because everyone says it was that's you j
Glad you vote
I
Don't feel I need to dignify that with a response
Do you agree that an adaptation can be too far removed from the source like if in lord of the rings of reboot
What if gandalf was a young ripped party animal? It may be well written, but I am disappointed as someone who paid for spider-man
uh, so I would yeah, yeah, but that's false advertising at some point eventually
Yeah, and I and the fact that you just said it may be well written, but i'm disappointed
I'd be like you should be disappointed if they marketed it that way and you should feel
Disrespected and the source material has been shat on
But it was well written
And I know that that almost seems like
Disrespectful in a way I suppose, but I would just be like well if we're to remain objective here
have to be fair
Say that they actually did write a very swell story. They've just shat on the um, of course
And again, this is something that i'll have to deal with a lot of the time
like with game of thrones
or um
The laminy snicket adaptations though. I don't know how everyone feels about them being just bad on their own anyway
It's you know
There's some of them trying to remain consistent with because I do think that uh,
It creates a lot of very confusing conversations if you're to argue that as long as you're unfaithful to a to x degree
The content is now poorly written. It's like hmm
And
The thing that sort of tips me over in that argument is the idea that you just take a well-written story and change one name
And apparently it becomes a bad story to me. That's kind of ridiculous. Like it doesn't make sense to me
But if the framing is adaptation again, I don't disagree
Uh robin doesn't always do what batman tells him spider-man has been downgraded to a sidekick to tony stock
Very interesting
Yeah, I didn't see the movie where he was a sidekick to tony stock
Yeah, that's weird
Although that would have been a cool movie if they did that that would have been cool
Yeah, that would have been cool. Yeah, like a direct mentoring coming but
As well as homecoming that would have been neat to see
Yeah
We've really built up on their relationship
I gotta pee though
No, like he has to he has to learn before he's great
well, uh
That was something that uh shadow visti brought up. He was like, what if
We have him being a confident assertive character to begin with would that not be more?
Uh enjoyable for the audience
Would he not be a more likable character as opposed to seeing him in a weakened state?
Learning to become this this character that we all want him to be
Would that be so much more satisfying to see him grow into this amazing?
Well, I would argue that neither are more or less satisfying that it's necessarily about execution and that um
They're both different stories
We could meet a hero at his peak from the get-go
Or we could meet a hero that starts out with almost nothing and very low experience and understanding of why he does what he does
Always is about uh how they do the thing I suppose for me
Um unpopular opinion spider-man 2 is the best spider-man movie, but the only good rainy movie
I don't oh well, I guess the first half isn't unpopular as an opinion
But the second half I suppose is most people do consider spider-man 1 to be very good as well
I like spider-man 1 a lot. I think it's clunkier than the second one and I understand the idea of being like clunky
What does that mean? I'd be like, you know what I'm gonna stick with clunky because i'm not sure about how to qualify that
Just yet i'd have to rewatch the film
But I remember thinking it was good
Uh when we rewatched it for the cosmonaut variety hour efap, which I feel like was over half a year ago now
time flies
But uh
What are your thoughts on terminator dark fate?
um
We
covered it sort of in the previous efap when nudrotic told us
Oh, it wasn't the previous one. It was the nudrotic efap. He told us um a potential plot summary
I
I think it was when we were talking about the expanse and stuff. It was after that and um
Sounds like a disaster
When you start your terminator story with john connor is dead i'd be like hmm. Okay
Interesting. So here's the thing
Um, my mom is a massive terminator fan or specifically terminator two. She doesn't mess. Yes
Uh massive terminator two fan. She doesn't care for the first one, but she really likes the second one
And she saw that trailer in the cinema, uh and got really excited and I was like i'm so sorry because I I knew the leaks
Yeah that you could expect a video for me on dark fate because that will get me so pissed off
My love for terminator is embedded deep into my into my massive heart
And yeah, well we'll see what happens maybe it'll be great right guys, maybe it'll be great. Yeah, it might be great
Yeah, might be I don't want that movie to be great because sarah connor looks so cool in it
Like that's like such a superficial thing, but I want to see her kicking ass in a really cool movie
Right, come on
Y'all are arguing over meta narratives molar and rags would probably contend that they don't exist
so
um the existence of
The existence of a metanarrative isn't exactly something that
Would be relevant to talking about the specific
references from the film itself
like
well, it depends on interpretation and it also depends on exactly what you're referring to when you say metanarrative because uh
For example, i'm pretty sure that word gets used every other sentence with movie bob takes on everything
but um
If you're drawing something from like outside of the content to represent
What the film might mean in a meta sense
or if you're talking like like um
How how people are interacting with the film or how they're reacting and how what the film says about them like a lot of people
would say that kylo ren was um
A representation of angry star wars fanboys who didn't understand the content or were angry for no reason that sort of shit
Like if you look at the film from that standpoint with that metanarrative, it's uh, it becomes very blah blah. I'm just like, uh, huh
um
But yeah, I I would happily hear out the argument depending on the references I suppose
There are so many interpretations that can make the thing so much more fun to watch
But they don't make the thing good on its own if you need to like be told something before you watch it
You should already know if you're a peter parker fan, I guess i'm not a peter parker fan
A fan movie so a peter parker fan
Like a fan of which peter parker, uh, i'm guessing the comic one
I don't know
I don't read comics
Okay, lol mola can be subjective and objective at different times priced
Is that a criticism because I agree with that
Yeah, we can that's that's our whole point is that you can be both
Yeah, the whole thing is drawing the line
Make your choice now
I choose to be an object subjectism
I can accept that
That's the
Yeah, I assume they're running with the meta narrative that the film
is is uh
taking spider-man and removing
the elements of him that uh
Make him who he is as sort of like a humiliation or a way of
Making him subservient to the current mcu standing
there are a lot of sort of
Uh narratives you could run based on how you feel about how he was treated or whatever and I would just be like, okay
um
You can kind of run reverse ones
like the mcu respects spider-man so much that they're giving him the longest developed story from beginning to end to create what is going to be the the
the most heroic
and leadership fueled hero the mcu has ever seen
The point where iron man's story ends with him passing the torch to this hero who's going to be
The real face of the mcu not iron man
You know, you couldn't you can run these a lot of the times in a lot of different ways
As long as some of the references support it. So i'm just like, okay
It changes the events of the film
LOL good joke mauler. I'm just saying you could you could go multiple ways with it
Uh mauler, I had a dream where your youtube channel and twitter were gone and then I woke up to a notification that you tweeted
And the nightmare was over
All right
I mean even if that happened, I would still find a way to get videos out. So don't don't panic. It'll be fine
Uh, the inclusion of the iron man suit and tony's help earlier makes the contrast better when peters forced to fight alone in the last act
I agree
No, it's different from the comics
Um, because I think that someone else that shadow was talking about was the idea that like if he was fighting for himself
The entire time versus having the safety net and then having it removed
What necessarily creates the more engaging storyline? I would say that that's pretty much subjective, you know
You'll be as engaged as you're going to be
But um, I do like the contrast
That it can uh can make for a decent progression
Spider-man makes his own tools
He's supposed to be the little guy that always always takes the high road and he does it alone
He does not want to put other people in danger no matter what
What if he's in a situation where he doesn't have a choice he's like batman never kills people
Yeah, I can provide you well, so yeah, that's the fundamental argument here, right? Um
What if batman has to and you're like well as a writer, you shouldn't be forcing him into that situation
I would just be like what if he ends up in that situation?
How do you deal with this in life when?
You have a person who is very principled about something and then they're forced
To do x or y and both choices will result in breaching that principle, but one of them has to occur
And the example I always give is just two buses full of children one has 10 one has five
Batman's got to push a button to either kill the 10 or let the 10 live at the expense of the five
What does he do then?
And uh, yeah, it was really fun because uh
My favorite reaction to that is the character just rejecting the situation and then shit gets worse because of it
Yeah, this is there's a lot of ways you can go with the story like for example
He saves the 10 and then the rest of the the story lines can involve how batman's racked with guilt
He has to deal with the parents of the five
And there's loads of things you can deal with you wouldn't just go as out of character that you would do that
It's like well, what else is he gonna do? Let all of them die?
I don't know. And then so we extrapolate this to spider-man makes his own tools. What about a scenario where he can't make his own tools?
Spider-man is supposed to be the little guy that always takes the high road and does it alone. What about if he can't do it alone?
Why does he have to be alone like tell me why does he have to be alone?
Seems like an arbitrary restriction
And besides no, he's got to be alone because reasons he's not even alone in um
in the ramie films
So like the public help him when he's at his like moment of losing against green goblin
um
He only beats dr. Octopus because he manages to knock him out of his trance and then in the third film
He's his life is saved by um
Whatever goblin junior goblin
Junior goblin don't know
Um goblin or something
And yeah, and he does not want to put people in danger no matter what I think that's that's in homecoming
I don't think peter wants people to be put in danger at any point in that film. Does he?
I would say no
What if you actually understood the character we can play this game all day
What are you trying to say with that? I don't I don't actually get it either
I think this is like star wars if you don't care about what came before seven and eight are okay films
Well eight not so much, but if you do it's disappointing. I think seven falls apart regardless of what came before
yeah, but we're talking about a
Comic adaptation that is outside of the movie and previous installments that are directly related to the films
Yeah, the keyword being continuity. I don't understand why
people don't get the difference between
adaptations and sequels
Keyword continuity
Yeah
Not the same continuity versus it is
Uh, how would tony know where peter how would tony know where know where peter was at the end?
Well, there's the thing what nerd rodick was talking about
Was that he never felt peter was in any kind of danger because if ever he was he would be bailed out by iron man
If you feel that way, there's nothing anyone can argue out of you
Like there's just you know, you feel there's no stakes because you feel iron man will bail him bail him out
Eye on the other hand when when watching it was like, holy fuck. He's he's gone here
With his basic suit while he's on a jet that if he falls off it is most likely going to die trying to fight a guy
Who's way more capable of killing him than vice versa right now?
um
And and he runs out of his web shooter towards the end of it as well and he gets covered in blood and he's nearly
Killed this is what I mean. Like I was like shit, man
Like spider-man's getting pushed to his fucking limits here
Um, do I think that he was gonna die in the scene?
No
But I don't know that that's a failing of the film versus the fact that i'm aware of uh,
The mcu the fact that it's a film. Yeah, you know, I mean is he just getting like shot at and stuff?
Like what iron man gonna swoop in and stop him stop one of those bullets from its trajectory towards him
I
I'm pretty sure there's only one film that's ever built up the stakes in a way that made me not like
Because i'm aware of metanology that it is a film
Go. Oh, yeah, but the the good guys are gonna win and that was district nine. I was like, holy shit what's gonna happen, but
Well, I was about to say, uh only getting stabbed in infinity war. I knew that he was going to be in the sequel to infinity war
So
I know he's not going to die
But it was still a great scene
Like you uh, I can't you know, I can't like take it away just because i'm aware of his contract. It's just like really
I think this is why he could have been in
End game from from time travel stuff
Yeah, he could have been um in a different capacity completely. So
I mean he would have been if um
If say he did die from that stabbing he would have he would still have had to have been an endgame
Given the plot
Yeah, uh, I was like um when he sits down with Thanos. I was like something's gonna happen that stops him from executing tony for sure
But it didn't if it was to criticize the film that wouldn't be in there if if that translates
Because a lot of people were saying that they were like all of all the people who were dusted
We already know that this person's coming back because of this movie contract this movie contract and I was just like that's not fair
So, how are you supposed to tell a long-term long-term story with lots of changing stakes with characters that are having these kinds of issues
When people are going to be able to see contracts like
If that makes the movies less enjoyable for you, it's your fault for looking at the contracts
Yeah, typically I would recommend not looking at the contracts
Seems like uh
It's it's like it's literally like reading
It's like googling spoilers for a movie and then complaining that the movie was bad because you knew it was going to happen
Yeah
But in the case of like I said with nerd rodic
He he felt with what happened in the film up to that point that iron man was just going to swoop in
um
If you feel that way then, you know, there's nothing that can be done
I just thought that the film made it very clear that iron man had cut him off
That he was using tech that was extremely low gear
And the only tracking they had of spider-man was through the uh, the tony suit it wasn't a classic one
When I say classic, I just mean
Um, I hate mcu mj so much that I want the next movie to be an adaptation of one more day
Does she die I don't yeah, I don't know
I'm gonna search it up
I would love to hear some objective flaws about the film, but I guess we're not going to get that here
I well if we actually talked about the film we might have
I think that um
We may like this this there's definitely people who have said to me in like different
Formats p.m.s or twitter and stuff that there are definitely objective flaws that they so we'll be made aware of them
Probably as time goes on
Or at least the arguments here uh spider-man who decided to wear an alien symbiote in the comics would have denied tony suit
He
Would have denied tony suit. Oh, are you saying that it doesn't make sense that he would wear an alien symbiote?
But also conclude that he would deny tony suit
I think so. Yes
Um
Somebody just said um
I didn't hear the one possible counter argument you and mauler could have made about how the mcu stands for marvel cinematic universe
Meaning it's a different universe and then the marvel multiverse
I thought it was just obvious that they were just different
Well, the mcu stands for marvel cinematic universe. It's different from the marvel multiverse. Yeah, which I guess is what the comics are
Yeah
I mean the the idea is that uh
The separate continuities would be supported by the mere fact that they can't coexist unless
Unless the multiverse theory, but even then they would be separate continuities. Would they not as in
They're a part of one large continuity, but they can't affect each other
They don't necessarily have anything to do with each other until they interact
Yeah
Beowin has said that he has banished off twitter for a week
So he needs to send a meme to me so that I can send it to you for the efap
So we'll be getting a beowin piece here in a second and off twitter. So have you been racist beowin?
You've been a naughty man
There's a few memes today's one i've gone twitter's
I have to uh
I have to save the video ones for uh
Um
It takes away from roadie's character that he doesn't build his own suit
That's how stupid this argument is. By the way, I don't even like homecoming
Um, so the precedent that they take is that they're building from comics
I don't think roadie built his own suit in the comics or did he I don't even know
um
The argument makes sense from an adaptation point of view that's pretty much what our stance has been this whole time
Uh, but even then
Is it a good adaptation of something else? He does build his own suit
It's just not as good as the billionaire genius who's been building suits this whole time. Like doesn't that follow through?
And he builds the important bits of his suit he builds the like the
Interactive goggles and the web shooters and all that. Yeah, and then yeah, just those two things but tony like, you know
Adds a shit ton of bells and whistles and then finalizes all those things too
There's a huge budget
Someone said that on my uh, my discord they were like it makes no sense
The tony is able to build this suit for him when he's supposed to be the one who's the genius who came up with
The web shoes and stuff and I was just like why why would that not make sense?
One of them has a gajillion dollars and a huge lab
And lots of experience it's highly aware of all the technology as well
That's the thing that always annoyed me about like the amazing spider-man
And i'm not I can't really remember if if they do it in the toby mcguire trilogy
but I really remember annoying me and the amazing spider-man where
There's like a scene where he's like looking at what people wear for athletics. He's like, oh, it's always spandex
And then the next scene he has like a custom spandex with webbing print on it and like where the fuck did you get that?
Like is the film telling me that he just found that somewhere or did he take the custom time to like
That's not even being smart. That's being like good at crafts and like
To a ridiculous extent where it looks like custom made by professionals
Uh, this is bad. You shouldn't have to use the comics to judge a movie. That's an unfair advantage against casual film watches
I mean, i'm not i'm not sure i'd use that argument to explain why it's like a poor represent a poor way to judge the movie
um
or what it is specifically but
The the I still think um, how many in a percentage?
How many people do you think that will watch spider-man homecoming had read?
Spider-man comic book you guys reckon i'd say less than i'd say less than 10 percent
Yeah, that sounds fair. Yeah, I think I think I could probably go with that
And that's not me saying that that means x y z i'm just saying that that's that's uh, interesting to think about in terms of
Who the what the audience is?
Um, but the thing is you could make it for both easily
Yeah, no, definitely
Like the remy trilogy. Yeah, I mean the comic book readers love the remy trilogy from what I understand
Uh, it bothers me that rather than critiquing the movie i'm hearing complaints about a publisher's interpretation of a character
Exactly. That's what you heard
Molar i'm axing you aunt mae was old in a disney fanatical universe where you get the homecoming leeway
She was old thoughts on ariel being black slash the moulin trailer
I don't know the fuck's going on over disney hq. Doesn't doesn't the moulin one sort of
screw up the
What because if lion king is a one for one
remake with like cgi and everything but then moulin is a complete like new interpretation of this story from the source rather than from
The disney film then this set of live action movies is going to be very confusing in terms of what they're doing
Like with each one it's going to change not necessarily. That's a bad thing. I'm just confused. What's disney's
Plan here. I don't to make money to make money
and I guess
Go ahead. My my guess like being very cynical is that they don't want to do uh be a man again
Oh, definitely not. I never thought that would end up in a film
Right like just my guess is that that's the only reason that they're uh
That they're saying oh, it's going to be a very different interpretation this time so that they don't have to release like official
An official explanation of why they're not putting that in
Although to be fair if they if they did release an official explanation it was like oh is the times outdated things
Then that would get controversy which would get them more money. So I don't know
Um to clarify as well for rags, so you remember moulin the the the uh the song i'm gonna make a man out of you
Yeah, mr
I'll make a man out of you like that'll just not happen in a modern movie
People will be upset because it's not lining with gender roles
Can you believe that there are some people out there who think that it's predominantly a masculine position to be a soldier in a war
in medieval ages
Can you disgusting upsetting deserve to be better at the thought?
Uh being the fact that the new spider-man is iron man heavy. It's wrong. The new comic spider-man is influenced by iron man
In fairness. Well, this is the part that kind of confused me. He said that uh, he doesn't like the new spider-man comics either
and so it's
Well, how come those new spider-man comics aren't the real spider-man? That's the only take i've heard on new marvel comics though
I've i've i've not had it much but i've whenever I hear anyone talking about new marvel comics. It's they're bad
Yeah, no same. Um, yeah
but that's when it gets confusing because
It's like you've adapted
You've adapted it wrong and then it's like well, whatever this is drawing from these new ones
Like yeah, but the new ones are wrong too and it's like, okay
Which one specifically are the correct ones?
Entirely a subjective argument. It's just oh I was disappointed because it wasn't what I wanted it to be which is a
Legitimate way to feel but it is just like yeah, that's a feeling
I mean, uh, he did he did express that that's that was definitely felt
He wasn't I don't think he was saying that it's objectively bad because it's not like the comics
I don't remember also. Yeah, just uh, i'll throw the straw poll in again. Make sure we got a cycle of people voting
We can't have jay be proven
To to think that the public perception of this movie has improved since last time. It'll make him feel good. We can't have that
More people want ant-man to be the leader of the mcu than captain
I'm down with that. Yeah. Well
I guess the thing is like more people want anyone captain marvel. Yeah, but
I will like ant-man
Leading the mcu like I don't know
I feel like with captain marvel at least they could there's the potential to do more interesting stuff
If they go with ant-man, it's just gonna be dull
Yeah, I won't be shit though
Yeah, but like if you had if you were like, okay get in fucking the rusos
They will write captain marvel as the head of the mcu. It would probably be good
Whereas if you got the rusos to write, uh ant-man heading the mcu it would probably be like
Yeah
I don't know. I don't know why there'd be a difference
Ant-man there's so little you can even do with that character
first off nice pun second off
I don't think that just because I don't I almost feel like marvel's insane ultimate powers would get boring to watch
But with ant-man they could do a lot of stuff interesting visually with things getting bigger and smaller
unironically
Yeah, I legitimately
Enjoyed like the fights that have been an ant-man
There are only a few characters that are that are less popular than her to take over the reins
And that's a coy a maria hill
nebula
Gamora wait
nebula
I thought nebula was popular
war machine
I would rather have her have her head it than uh, captain marvel, but yeah, absolutely
I am not kidding when I say anybody I could I can theorize a better storyline for any one of them than they're doing
Excuse me. Oh, no, there are loads of potentially good storylines you could do with her
Yes, I agree have a video on this
No, you don't don't lie to me
Uh being the fact that the oh, sorry
Mola, have you seen the new stuff about there being a black woman being cast as the new 007? Yes, it was a previous super cheddar
You
Here's money for rags because i've been subbed to him for so long i've seen his face. Oh my god
Wow, that was a long time ago. I don't look like that anymore though
If that's what's so interesting
I have changed i've grown
Marvel cinematic universe reading is hard direction, uh
upwards and forwards
If you get my meanings
Me too. I'm actually about the i'm probably actually about the same height
your opinion
But I have um, I just look different
Oh, that was like somebody super chat the link to the old straw poll. Is that what it's?
Oh, it's no ignore that
This is it's a straw poll for should we kick nude rotting?
I feel like it's only fair to put that down to the
Down to the people and their votes on it. What does it say? Um, I didn't check. Uh, let me
Why does it say yes no yes, but green
Yes, but green the only thing I can think of is that that's a reference to the up next video with thokai but green
Yeah, the majority of the votes on it and no so
That's nice. Yes for green at gary. They have set up spider-man to be hated by j jonah and the cops
Uh possibly tism stuff. Maybe yes. No who knows what's gonna happen. That's what I
Yes, no. Mm-hmm. Who cares about spider-man era 51 raid is coming
Get excited right be there or be square
Um, I just like giving y'all money
Marvel
Marvel has established infinite universes. Why is mcu characterization a problem reed richards was a villain in one of them, right?
That's the kind of freedom that i'm okay with uh, this is what I mean like could I envision an mcu with spider-man is
a villain to
uh
Venom like hmm
Go for it. Let's see what that looks like. There's someone's like no
It's out of character for both of them. I'd be like, oh
What if it wasn't what if they developed it in a way that it was in character for
No, no, it's not allowed. Uh, why are you talking about spider-man spider-man is out this
How many of those have been so I think that's the I want to say fourth or fifth. I'm not actually sure
Send more. Oh god, the same guy super tired again with the pole to kick dude
What
Uh peter parker comes with rules ben may mj
They could have made not parker spider-man and it would have made more sense for iron man to babysit him
He wasn't babysitting him though. I don't know that any character comes with rules when you adapt them
oh, well, uh, sorry when you re-envision them when you have a
Division even even adaptations have to uh, this is what we're talking about when you take
Something bad and make it good
In an adaptation. Does it make the adaptation worse or does it make it better? This is a complicated question
Um
Yeah, the idea that peter parker is a stat of
Specific character i'm not sure I even uh
Yeah, because I why not experiment
Um
The idea that he has to come with ben may and mj
I'm just curious. What if you turn them into tom
Gila and
Mary jones
I guess that's kind of what happened in homecoming. So I got my answer already
Um, isn't bland usually considered to be bad just say you think it's bad
I can't remember who described what is
Oh
Can't remember
I'll uh, we'll definitely do a meme selection
I don't understand the reference in this picture
That's right. It's not it wasn't meant for you
I get it
Uh, those who dislike homecoming usually have context for what a better spider-man looks like homecoming isn't bad, but it could have been so much better
I don't really know of anything that couldn't be improved. I don't disagree with the statement
Hi molar i've been watching for a while now. I found you through your dark souls two series
And i'm wondering if you would do one for dark souls three
Will give me a little long answer on it objectively
Um, by the way, I have my money also high rags
Hello
So, uh dark souls three it'd be tough for me to give a take on it right now
That's not kind of generic because i haven't played it in so long
But the idea that the world is a little too disconnected and that was disappointing to me
I really liked how tight the mechanics seemed to be the hit boxes were glorious. Um
The ai was mostly well behaved. Uh
It wasn't ds2 levels. That's all we need to get to really
And I liked a lot of the boss fights. I felt I felt they were very engaging
Um, but I can't necessarily go much beyond that because uh, again, I haven't played it in years now
Or at least it feels that way. I don't actually know how long it's been for sure. I need to play securo as well
Uh, yeah, I like it. I don't think i'd be making a video on it. Um
It would be if it was on a list, it would be very far down compared to a lot of other things and I feel like
Never be able to uh get to it, but I did like it a lot
Uh want to hear maula reed love listening doing army
Want to hear maula reed love listening doing army
Okay
Not sure about that one, but I agree
Can we just go back to shitting on tlj? We did in fairness moments later
The story doesn't need to be world ending to be good
Uh, I think that was brought up briefly about like how there wasn't enough of um
I think I think jeff said something about like some of the smaller stories not being as effective
We didn't really get to talk about it though
Uh, but any hero is going to be small scale. I know right. Well, uh, I don't know
I mentioned this before but critical drinker brought it up as a criticism that
Homecoming was small scale. I got to speak to him the other day and he said that um
He definitely wants to take that back as a criticism and that he doesn't necessarily even agree with it anymore because um
A smaller scale allows you to have repercussions
That are just not possible when the world is ending if you go my I might miss my date with my girlfriend
It's like uh, it's about to be cracked in two. I think we can
Like oh man at that point you're gonna miss the date either way. Mm-hmm
Uh story doesn't need to be world ending to be oh, sorry
I read that uh spidey is a perfect character for movie level budget tv series focus on new york in my opinion great world building
I associate with ps4 spidey 90 series
Especially spidey season one writers would be showrunners
Very well
No, the audience knows tony won't save him in the third act since it would ruin the hero's journey
I don't understand why the possibility in universe of that happening ruins it when you know, it won't happen
I don't know that uh, anyone does or doesn't know it will or will not happen. It's it's really based on how you um
I guess I don't want to say interpret
How you take the story?
because
I think nudrotic might actually have been expecting that peter was about to die and then iron man bursts in and tackles vulture and
Then like says peter get out of here that sort of thing
And I could I can see why he may have thought that was going to happen
But then the fact that it didn't doesn't necessarily make him feel that the progression up to that point was any better
Because that's what he thought he was gonna the film was almost leading to but uh, you know
My take was the complete opposite. I was like he's alone here. He has to do this himself
Complicated
I couldn't digest the tony stark father figure fiasco at the start
But this iteration of spider-man seems solely based on the basis of the popularity of the avengers and not on the popularity of spider-man alone
With that being said I think mcu spidey is the best spider-man we've got in such a long time
I love tom hollander's peter parker and spider-man. I also love you mauler and rags
Oh, i'm not sure if he's addressing that to
Uh nidrotik or deaf or even wolf, but oh, I think he's just saying I love you molar and rags. Okay
Love you too, buddy. Um
but the
The tony stark father figure fiasco i'd be curious to explore. Uh, why you'd label it a fiasco. Um
Hey mole daddy and big boy rags
Hello
Did any of you see spider-man into the spider-verse?
I enjoyed the film and i'm curious to see what you thought of the movie. Have you seen that? I have not seen
We should watch that. Uh, I was impressed
Very fun. Yeah, sure. I'm down for it. You bet we'll do it
But I haven't seen the comic. Oh, no. Well, it's a good interpretation of the comic from what i've heard. So you'll be fine, right?
Thoughts on the 70s spidey films
I've not seen the 70s. Oh, I haven't seen them i've heard of them
I think we covered their trailers on the uh, all right. Yeah the stream with um drunken peasants and they look glorious
but um, hmm
I really want to japanese spider-man one day
Weird that there was this there's so many fucking spider-mans
Do you know about japanese spider-man? It's fucking crazy
I'm sure it's the why anymore. There's just like loads of crazy shit in it
Mark web made 500 days of summer the best breakup movie of all time. Have you guys watched it the active opinion?
I have seen it. I enjoyed it, but I can't remember a lot of it outside of people get together and then break up
And it's funny
Well, I haven't seen it about the movie funny, but
I
Have you seen it
I'm gonna leave that open to interpretation
There you go guys. You can try and figure out if jay has seen the movie. I'm not going to specify what one
I'll just leave it there
Still watching weird tweet like, uh, I think it was today when I said i'd seen birdman
And someone replied to me with that was like cool one down 99 to go on like
99 what like i'm soon gonna have seen all 100 films i'm confused
I was like, yeah, okay. Uh, unfortunately people expect you to see like five of them
And i've already seen more than one film so i'm confused by this
Okay, it's a metric he's running of once you've seen an additional 100 from now. You will have raised a level in film critique
Oh like patrick williams. Yeah
Evolve i've posted the straw poll once again. Uh
It does look like it's settling at 70 30 when it settled at 60 40 before I don't know what that means because
It can mean anything
I don't know if people's minds are changed or if we've just got a different pool of people today like there's you know
Anything could mean any
Means the film is good
No, 30 percent of people thought it was garbage
Garb I
Marjo
Uh still watching these out of order finding the origin of memes after i've seen them. I call it me mento
I like it
That person if you find the origin of the me being the manager meme
Can you send it to me because I have no idea how that happened
I mean I am the manager
To be honest, I was excited for captain marvel because I like the character from the comics the carol damvis version
But I was horrendously let down
I mean i've heard that she's not great in the comics either. I obviously have no idea
People have been saying
That have read her comics. I remember nordic saying that she's not necessarily been very popular in her iterations in the comics either
um
F for disney for not letting sony use faithful adaptations of spider-man cast for the mcu spider-man movies
Watching episode 29 and then bam i'm part of the toxic brood. I didn't want this. I didn't ask for this
I must consider the victims of verbal terrorists. Yep
The efap has a funny way of suddenly making you a toxic brood member
Laps it right on you as you're sitting on your sofa
happens before
You know, it happens
Uh, did you see the fin origin comic? No wonder why this franchise is going downhill slice and dice brothers. I did see it
You see that j. Oh origin
Like fin stars wouldn't cool. I don't know if you can call it an origin necessarily, but what I saw why
Was he's well because it's not like it goes, uh to like his business or anything
No, no. Well, it's like a comic slide of like a selection of things that apparently happen. He's like mopping
on a ship
and then
I find it on twitter because it was bad. Uh
He's like got a friend and they refer to each other as their full
Fn2187 fm blah blah in like sentences and I was like, oh that's awkward
Um
Are you
But he says um, he says something like fear the mop
Holds it up
like
Why why did you do this?
You hate everything
You don't understand the themes
It's on you can find it on twitter. It's embarrassing. I don't I don't know how
Large it is as a whole
How significant it is to the actual films, but I was just like oh
I'm betting these five dollars that maula will not get the tfa critique series done before episode nine
It's possibly a safe bet at this this juncture. We shall see like I said, I want to get it done before then
But it doesn't mean I will
I mean i'm restricted by my own abilities i'm afraid
If marveling go ahead
Just based on the fact that um, you've said your rages are observed for things that like a wasted potential
Does that mean there's no possibility of like a rage for episode nine now because you have i'm guessing not thinking it's going to be good
Uh, it could be a meh
It really depends on what the phone does
But
For all we know there's gonna be things in it that I go like oh shit
That's not half bad, but it's like surrounded in loops oops
Then again palpatine is back
Palpatine
Yeah, I could definitely see an unbridled meh happening because
odd
Like all that that whole vader thing where he throws him down and he kills the
Emperor and saves the day and turns good at the end. Fuck that. He's still alive
I
Gotta imagine if it ends with the emperor's redemption
The emperor kills kylo we're like what
I see the error of my ways
Long live democracy. Uh if marvel and sony's deal were to fail neither company would be able to use the elements of spider-man
As they were presented from the mcu
interesting
On tracks go
Nobody's ever mentioned how cheese theft suit looks like a biker leather gear
The dawn clearly thought a fellow rider was stranded and needed a ride. Yep
Look what happened
Uh at a friend's last night a man. I have known since I was 10 a man. I love he tried to show me a patrick
Will will helm video. He says it's because he's always so happy. I would rather he fisted my mother. Oh my
I
Would rather watch the patrick will helms video at that point myself, but hey
Here's isn't life just found you guys i'm trying to catch up in my little free time
I'm on episode seven. So i'll see you eventually keep up the great work. Also. Hi rags
Hello, hi
I like the idea that he's on episode seven trying to catch. I was like will we be able to outpace him?
Um our cosmic chicken who art
Who art with tonaled massive be thy name thy efap fun blessed by the dawn?
As long as the spiders foretold give us this day our daily rhino milk and forgive us artisms
I like it beautiful
Spider-man homecoming unpersand uncle ban worse than ryan removing luke morning han scene one wrote directed edited the scene the other wrote him out of existence
You
know
Free but okay
As we forgive those who tism against us and lead us not into subversion but deliver j from not watching the lord of the rings
opinion
And someone could easily put that into some form of a video
It's the efap prayer
Yay, we actually go back to like
A lot of these chats are just good lines for memes now
Uh, yeah, we actually did go back to shitting on tlj. See that super chat had an arc
You're not you're not the target audience only works when the opinion is negative
Typically, yeah, you only see that it's similar to when they say it's meant for children
You only seem to see that rolled out when it's a bad thing
Um, I can see that becoming like a really backhanded way towards something now like a euphemism for
Imagine that it's meant for children a imagine you came home from watching
I don't know the new pixar movie like oh, it's so good. It's so great. Like oh this head also nice go j
You're not the target audience
It's meant for kids dude and you'd be like, okay
What the hell?
All right, that's basically what bill was isn't it
It's I just you don't this is the point though. It's like you never see it in the reverse. It's always in defense
It's never in like oh, yeah. Yeah, it's bad for kids. So stop enjoying it. Oh, okay
Uh, thanks for not having me arrested or mutilated yet. Here's some more money. Hope you have a great week glory to the toxic brood
All right, here's the toxic brood
This guy sounds like a worst version of was lee
I uh
I mean, I don't I don't know if I heard was lee's voice in his voice, but he was kind of annoying
Really, yeah, his voice is definitely annoying
This guy sounds like wolf, but gayer. How does he sound like wolf?
I get the gayer. I don't hear that at all
Yeah, gayer obviously, but no not geared wolf
Toxic brood represent ooh some objective issues with homecoming un words first the first scene show in vulture is useless
What?
What that establishes his entire motivation? What do you mean is useless?
What this is why he becomes the vulture that scene
It establishes the whole idea for why he is what he is
And then number two the fact that peter's date ends up being the vulture's daughter is insanely lazy writing
Okay, so it's not lazy writing because the film presents peter with a choice. It's not a convenience
It doesn't it's not a thing that allows peter to achieve a thing
It's it simply says peter. Will you be a superhero or will you be not a superhero?
I phrased that very well
Is it contrived that yeah, he was vulture. I don't know that that would be contrived
And how would the plot have gone if it didn't happen what i'm suggesting is that nothing necessarily bad or good happened
It was it was presented to peter in the film
Yeah, it was just a big surprise
It's not you know, you know like in the way that uh, I don't know fucking
Peter is is running around because he's lost his two
Uh web shooters he gets thrown around this whole city and then he gets thrown all the way back to where he lost it
He lands right next to it
I'd be like wow that was fucking lucky because now it allows him to get it and you'll be more effective in battle that sort of
contrivance
It's not the kind of contrivance that this joy stakes but it is it's it allows the climax to happen
Technically peter allows that to happen. He chooses for it to go through like I said the movie's presenting with him with a choice
Is is it contrived that the movie presents a choice? I'd be like, uh
Yeah, because the choice was incredibly unlikely and it they needed to be presented the choice for the climax to happen
Um
I don't know that that's how I classify it. It's it's complicated because
it's not um
the standard kind of
The way I I would I would I would classify it contrivance. Like I said, it reminds me of the whole um
Isn't it contrived that uh r2d2 ended up with luke in a new hope?
Ben Kenobi's right next to him. It's like isn't that contrivance like well
It's a it's an extremely unlikely event. I suppose but it it it presents luke with with the journey ahead
It's up to him now to decide what he's going to do with this
like, okay
Maybe I would classify it as a contrivance, but not a flaw. Does that make sense?
Yeah, I mean it depends on how you want to see coincidences. I mean everything I think if that happens is an incredible amazing coincidence anyway
I I feel if you found a way to have that happen in a way that wasn't really unlikely it would be
uh better
Like if you had a causal relationship between the two things is that just
How do you have a causal relationship the results in the person he's dating having vulture as her dad?
I didn't say I had a specific example in mind
Hmm
I'd have to I might be convinced on that. I'm not sure where I stand on it exactly. Um
I get because you're not wrong when you say that uh, the ending cannot take place unless he happens to be her dad
but I guess okay like
Sorry, go. I was just gonna say so I guess my take is that the ending
There's two endings possible once you present that to him and the the part of the film we want to see is what peters
going to choose to do
You know, like is it contrived that he's able to be able to choose in the face place and I was like, oh, I guess so
It would be less contrived if say the only reason that peter found out about uh vulture
was because uh
it was somehow tied to him going to the school and
Vulture also having a connection to the school like if the connection came from the same place like maybe if vulture was at the dance
Because he's someone else's parent like that but like
Although that's what happened. But
No, i'm suggesting that peter goes with his date and then he sees vulture's there
Because vulture's there for his his his daughter who's unrelated to the person that peter's dating
I mean, I feel like that would lower the stakes though as well. But what i'm what I was suggesting is like
if um
The only reason that peter finds out that vulture like he what is it that happens in the film?
He sees the explosion in the distance right and finds out about the vulture
I'm saying if there was a way you could rewrite that so that
uh
peter finds out about the vulture
from events that uh happened like at the school because the vulture is you know connected to the school through his daughter
And that connection leads to the to peter finding out about him. But without finding out that liz is uh
Connected to him. I feel like that could
Definitely lower the contrivance levels. Well, he did find out about the vulture through events that happened at the school though
Because it was the dance which is the only reason they met
Well, no, but that not that wasn't like the initial finding out about what the vulture was doing
It was because of an explosion in the distance while he was at a party
I thought I didn't know frags wanted to respond or not. Um
Yeah, because the the way the plot runs is that he sees the explosion in the distance that
Event leads him to have a chitauri
Core that core is then chased by the dudes. He puts the tracker on the dudes. He ends up finding
Vulture
Then
Happens from there then he goes to the washington monument
And then he finds out about the ferry because of the uh, the guy that they were selling guns to that's how
Uh, he follows that whole line
um
like if you have the vulture say in the school for some reason and like
It actually turns out he's there for a completely legitimate reason in the end
He's there for like to talk to one of like liz's teachers or something
but then while he's there pete gets suspicious of him and then
Like I don't know like sees something in his bag or something like that
It's a really tricky rewrite and I don't think the payoff is that big too for improvement wise, but i'm sure it's possible
Um, so
Did it is did it make it feel artificial to you when you saw it?
Not when I was first seeing it, but I think it would be better if it wasn't like that
I mean i'm that's basically the it didn't bother me respond trying to figure out how it's defined basically because like
My brain is crossing crossing the streams of the the the idea of um
It's a it's an unlikely scenario
But what's pete gonna do about this because it's not it doesn't necessarily make anything happen
One way or the other for uh for anything. It's it's it's just a
This is this is what's happening. What do you think pete? And we just we just have to watch what he wants to do in relation to it
um, but I think I can agree with with with with with you pretty much entirely I just um
I should probably think on it. But in that case, uh
So like what would you call it lazy writing then because I guess
Would it come under there? I'm
I'd call it flawed i'd call it imperfect writing but
It's interesting I don't know if you'd call it lazy because I don't think there are very many simple ways you could do it better
And achieve the same effect
Well, all I'll do is absolutely concede that is it likely that the person that pete decided to date
Ghoul also happens to be the daughter of the main villain of the film separately like
I don't think we can deny the the likelihood of that is very low
so uh
the the less
likelihood related stuff there isn't the more cause of an effect stuff there is tends to be uh something to be approved of
the consistent storytelling
yeah, um
But you know as as as the film goes if that's it it's not still not we're still doing pretty good
I think uh, yeah coincidences do happen occasionally. What's the thing? It's not a plot hole. It's just um unlikely. Yeah
And like I said it uh, it doesn't allow
Peter to win or doesn't allow the villain to win
It simply presents the scenario and we have to see what happens next not to say that it's still it's not contrived as a result
Of that, but I still think it's um
Not as bad. It's just their paths
happening to cross again
Yeah
In a way that raises the stakes
Would you agree that the final act of homecoming lacks stakes when considering that if peter hadn't stopped vulture
Then tony would have stopped him because he'd finally see him as a threat
So I think the idea of the finale of homecoming is that they're going to send the decoy drone so that eventually tony would figure out
That uh, he's been stolen
But by that time vulture and his team would probably have all the shit hidden
Because that's their whole deal is that they know how to counter the tracking. Um technology of the people they're
They're pitching off of like
Or stealing from I guess
Uh, so I would imagine they'd have like some form of a hanger where they'd park that shit and then they would just live off
It then with all the stuff in that
Get
Um, but no tony might be interested in trying to hunt him down
um
But that's the whole point is that uh peter wanted to prevent that wanted to prevent him stealing it in the first place
because hey man
It's an irresponsible person stealing a lot of power
Hmm
What have you guys heard of arch warhammer and if so, would you consider having him on he's on the list. Yeah. Yep
Uh, the fans didn't kill star wars it was murdered
Yeah, that's right hallof. Do you know how much i've sacrificed?
that's um
Fucking spider-man one meme crossed over with the guys from collider beautiful
Uh, the prequels seem to uh, the prequels seemed even too childish in comparison to the originals to me
Even though I was 10 at the time it seemed to panda way too much. Imo
Well, it did really show that goofy it was almost like a super version of like the ewoks
Yeah, like jar jar was definitely sprinkled all over it
It felt like ice age level goofy
Kind of yeah
Yeah, but even the first ice age had like some edgy humor in it sit and jar jar actually
Similar in terms of some aspects of the character and then I guess you could argue like a one is done better than the other
I want to see them switched now
It could work
That's like I don't necessarily think it would be bad for either film
I mean i'd watch them. Uh
Misa cold will he blame red letter media?
Uh, oh you're talking about the guy we're covering in the video. He probably does to a certain degree if the logic is that
Eating the prequels
Uh, the prequels are objectively something
Then it's your fault if there's a bad reaction to that criticism the prequels are objectively great. This is a hill. I will fucking die on
uh
I mean in like a meme way
Like in a silly
Non-serious sort of way maybe hey rags and mauler watching all efap on episode six right now
Good luck. That's actually getting to be quite the herculean journey
Isn't that the rhino milk one?
I
I think we we covered you on five. Didn't we always at six? Oh, no. Yeah, I was five
And yeah did uh
You want us to cover a certain video right in a future efap j. Remember? Oh, yeah, that should be fun
How was that for a narrative arc your character in the efap law?
I mean, that's great, but they have no idea what you're talking about
I don't have an idea what you're talking about a video that is critical of j
Specifically for the idea. Oh god. No, he didn't. Oh god. No, that was terrible
What no, not that one. Not that one that we watched. Oh that one. Oh good. Um
But yeah, just the idea that he he was once a subject then a guest then a then a common guest now
Efap will potentially be reacting to a video ripping him down a notch for his terrible videos
reacting with
It's a pretty good arc. I think there's been a lot of really strong development
I think I think it all made sense
I thought it was a bit contrived that j happens to be free a lot of the times that efap is on
I think that that kind of right. Yeah, it is a bit odd because I asked j all the time if he wants to hang out
With me and he says no he's always busy
He's always there there's dicks to suck and stuff like that and he's just way too busy
But all of a sudden whenever there's an efap invitation it just so happens
That he's free. I I don't I don't control the timing of the dicks
I wish I had that power, but I don't I have the timing I control the timing of the dicks
You could have just asked right? Well
You're a much more assertive man than I assertive isn't
Uh
The 30-year gap didn't explain the change in luke
He was a master jedi with no trauma when he thought to kill ben
He forgot yoda's key teaching on de gober a jedi uses the force for knowledge and defense never attack
Yoda teaches him being completely selfish
Focus on the present luminous beings are we control control?
You must control in control anger fear aggression the dark side of the force. They are easily they flow
I would just we didn't even see the 30 years
I would have been okay with it if we saw it and it was well written, but that would probably take a few movies
How many movies does it take to come 30 years?
And you could do a great trilogy in between the current
In the sequel in between the sequel trilogy and the ot with great characters. It would make a sequel trilogy comes great trilogy
How good do you think you could make the sequel trilogy in retrospect by putting another trilogy in between them?
If you like really if it was really well written and justified characters being in places they are when we meet them
It could help them for sure
Yeah, the world building just needs as much help as it can get
Oh, yeah, the world building is still my biggest gripe and I don't I know that's like a not even a popular stance
I mean people hate the world building, but most people will go with the characters
Yeah, yeah the characters do seem a lot more dirty you got to deal with them on screen for in a much more personal way
Can we just turn this into efap movies for and watch big trouble in little china star wars makes me sad
Can't do those live because we'll get hit with copy tisms. I don't have copy but
but luckily
For efap meme watching youtube is redoing its uh copyright system
Wait, are they making it better? They're making it legit better
What the fuck? Yeah, they've upset jay now rex
No, i'm
Enjoys it when videos get taken down. I can't believe jay
This is what people's problem is with you every time we try to be unified on this podcast
As a force for good in the world and every time something good happens
Well, i'm the manager so if you disagree with me you're wrong that's not true at all incorrect
Uh-huh managers can be wrong
Managers are evil as far as I know. I check the bible. Yes, unless you're the customer in which case you're always right you're wrong
A manager is the closest thing you've ever been to a man
Also an ager
Oh wait, have red light media got a video predicting rise of skywalker is that true?
Oh
They do yes
I've got a lot of videos to watch today. They've got a video red. Let me do got a video try to predict
What's gonna happen at rise of skywalker?
Oh, I haven't seen it yet. It'll be funny. I basically woke up in efap. So yeah same for me. Um
Rags you have weird dreams, man
I do have weird dreams, but I can't control them
Uh, james, they are very um, they're all over the place, man
James moor needs to buy the rights to star wars so we can collectively write better films
That would be interesting. Yeah a film written by like a thousand people
How would that I wonder how that would run you'd have to like keep running votes on each like sentence or something
That would be a really interesting experiment that we totally could twitch right star wars. Yeah. Yeah
Um, i'll take it. Oh my god, i'll take it become a meme so quickly
I'd take the dawn star wars any day
Absolutely again. Oh without a doubt an apple a literal apple. I would take it
That's an animate
I know the worst thing to me about homecoming is that it's just okay
Objectively, it doesn't hit the highs of rainy or the lows of amazing mj is inconsequential
In homecoming sure she's inconsequential
A lot of characters who aren't though
Yeah, I don't know I liked a lot of the payoffs in homecoming
That's just me
Jeff wake up bond will be female in 25. Oh, i'm i'm sure he's gonna be uh having his take on that
Very interesting. I order you mauler to make more videos. Oh, they're coming. They're on the way
Uh got to get back to work. Love you guys and the fandom menace. Oh, yay
Uh episode one through three are like a six out of ten better than a lot of movies
Okay, uh, all right
Uh, imagine if they try to do civil war two in the mcu king john danvers played off as correct and heroic
Oh
Would be great for discussion
Hi mauler. I recently watched your dk
Dks two vids all 11 hours a question
How can you say the game is pointlessly hard just to kill you and that it's too easy because life gems?
Also despawning. So if you're stuck enemies eventually go away
Um
So i'd have to remember exactly what I said
but if i'm talking about
some of the
environments and elements of like, um
Let's say the iron keep
Or like the the poison again, i'd have to go back into the video
So i'm probably talking about specific areas where they try their ass off to just kill you in the cheapest ways possible
but then
If you're getting insta killed
The life gems will be able to save you. It looks like a life gem can't save you from an insta kill but
Uh, if you're running on just health going down slowly life gems will be your best friend and you'll be able to be beaten
And um, yeah, like the game is really easy apart from the cheap
Bullshit insta kill moments. Yeah, like, uh, sorry. I just remembered one of them. So like when they pack like fucking
13 enemies as an ambush around you
And like they can stun lock you and a bunch of other things can happen
It's like yeah life gems aren't going to be able to save you from that
And he said um also despawning if you're stuck enemies will eventually go away
So in ds2 if you kill enemies enough times in a row, the area just stays permanently clear
So the theory goes
You can complete the game by slowly moving through and killing everything, but i'm pretty sure everything gets 10 lives
So it takes a long fucking time
Um, but yeah, you can play the game like that
If you really really want to
Yeah, there's the
A mechanic where you can abuse it if you have incredible inhuman patience
I wouldn't recommend it. It would be really boring. Well potentially boring. Maybe someone find that very interesting
I'm sure there's someone out there who's actually killed everything in the game permanently just to see what it would be like
I mean, that's probably a speed run category, right?
Um
I don't know. Wouldn't that take a million years to do?
Yeah, but that still
How would that be a speed possible sure you can do a speed run any category I get yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right
I wouldn't be intending to watch though. I can fucking assure you
Like you just you need to put on a movie. There would be like those three people who who really want to see that
And then there'd be like three more think they really really want to see that and then get three minutes then and go
Disney is an abusive husband and guys like this are the battered wife. Oh my
Anyone else times you get that impression, man
Anyone else realize that tfa and tlj take place immediately after each other for a total of five to six days in universe time
If rise takes place point that out. Yeah, I think it's less than that
Like it's like i'm pretty sure over the course of five to six days is probably true
But I mean like the time between the two movies i'm pretty sure
I mean there's no time between ray's story of both movies, but that's where the timeline gets a little bit confused
Because there is definitely time for the resistance
Yeah, if rise takes place straight after tlj the whole lot happens in just over a week of time
They've confirmed I believe that it is a year jump. So we've we've gone through 365 days of stuff
Oh boy
Well, that should be justifiable then for ray to be a completely different character now
Oh, yeah
That makes sense
Uh came home last night
Like if they like actually do to ray what they did to luke and then that would split the fandom like again
Like the the the sequel defenders who are still in on it would like totally split
In exactly the same way that the whole like fandom did initially between uh
You know, you know what i'm saying. No, I don't you racist
Came home last night tapped on the window to my living room lights on inside dog woke up and walked to the window
He couldn't see me turned on phone's light so he could see my face. He jumped back barking
Okay, all right, that sounds like it'd be funny
Yeah, ha ha dave lee also condones disney's unprofessional response to the aerial casting
So I think whatever disney does he'll be there to deep throat them. I don't know who dave lee is
What was their response dave lee was the the guy we covered that was dave lee. Oh, is it shit? Okay
Yeah, that was dave lee
You for you. You're so heartless. Yeah, I can't believe you think that all australia
I can't believe you think that all australians look alike. I thought we covered fringy because they're all fringy
A little bit different. Yeah
That's what fringy looks like without his green outfit
I don't know what disney's unprofessional response to the aerial casting is by the way. I haven't even seen that they responded
Yeah, I don't know anything about it myself. I'm sure it's golden though
Loved maulers replies to hellogrido on twitter. Yeah, so on twitter hellogrido is making posts that are like
Lol, if you compare the emperor from episode five to episode six is completely different facial prosthetics
They've ruined the film loll xd xd xd
And um after I think I saw the third one. I was like, okay
like is the joke here that um
People who criticize the sequel trilogy have really bad arguments and that um, you're trying to like repeat them and parody them onto the ot
As well, and then he said it has nothing to do with the sequel trilogy
I was like
Uh, he said it has nothing to do with the sequel trilogy. It's simply him trying to uh
Present how he thinks criticism might go of the ot if it was released today
And then I was like, okay, but based on the criticism of the sequel trilogy, right?
I didn't get a response though
Oh
Because I'm pretty sure that
Listen, if you can't understand his super funny joke, then you just aren't worth the time to explain
This joke was hilarious some people were like god mole you missed the joke. I was like I was criticizing the joke, but okay
Like yeah, I get it. It's satire of the the crappy channels that are like starwalls is the worst movie ever now because
Luke's hair didn't match the scene previously to the one he's in now, but I just be like, okay
How often does that even happen and like you know that?
People have like equally stupid arguments in reverse
This movie is amazing because luke is in it or something you'd be like, oh
You get to look at luke. It's a disney fanatical universe star wars universe. Yeah
Whatever that means
I just watched that the other day. It was really fun
I'll buy up although I do think he put up a better performance than major lee i've got to say I actually think so too
Wait, who did sorry at least
Random at least he was being rational by the end of it
What is it what's this name? It's like a short version of a real thing become a ren reviews
No, no, not ren reviews. That's a great debate guy
Oh, right. You think you did better than major lee
Yeah, I think so. I'm still I don't know what I said the last time I was asked that but I feel undecided
You agree with us as usual. Oh, well, there you go
Um, i'll buy a porch
It's spelt p.o r g
No, it's porch disney fanatical universe. Would you rather decide?
Wait, would you rather declare to the world the last jedi as a masterpiece?
No take backs or
Have all of your fingers cut off at the knuckle and then have red hot spikes jammed into the bloody stumps
All right, the last jedi can be okay. Yeah, I mean I i'm gonna go with the former
I like my fingers. Okay
I mean
That would try to send back the career the knuckler
The knuckler
Uh jay
Would you know to understand cutting his fingers halfway off as only made them twice as strong. Oh, is that how that works neat?
Yes
Uh jay, would you deserve herpes from bathwater drinking?
Uh define deserve oh, thank you
Well in fairness, he's probably watched that debate rags. I don't know
So
He's prepared for this but uh, how would you define deserve jay? There's a reason he's our manager always prepared
hang on
Do something or have
Hang on. Do you have something or show qualities worthy of a reaction which rewards or punishes as appropriate
as appropriate that's uh
The next definition we need define appropriate
I mean, I would say it's appropriate for you to get herpes by drinking. Uh
Someone else's bath water
And when you say appropriate there, what do you mean?
Uh, I don't know
All right
Would you say that it is a a natural and real consequence that can arise from you making that decision?
Yes, all right
Yeah, I think you could say it's a natural consequence. Yeah
Yeah
That's a plot contrivance. It's a plot contrivance getting herpes is a plot
I think most would agree that when you say deserve there's a moral aspect to it as if
A punishment that is justly delivered
Yeah moral aspect. No, it's like it's not like stupid people deserve to feel more pain. Thank you
Well, yeah, I was gonna say I think even with that definition wolf was like yep
Place I think he said play stupid games win stupid prizes
yeah, pretty much but you know the
It's it's it's everybody. I think we did a straw poll for that and the majority of people are actually on team wolf that one
Yeah, they'll they're wrong. No one chooses to be stupid
But if you choose to inflict your stupidity onto other people at that point you deserve bad things
Yeah, I uh
The my I think yeah, that's malicious intent that goes back to the moral argument
Yeah, i'd line up pretty much with the whole like I would I would laugh and then I would be like
Nah, that's they don't deserve that
They don't as stupid as they are to drink bathwater. I don't think there's a moral precedent that we should provide them with herpes
Okay
Um, I would I'd love i'd love to see a world where that was like the moral precedent
I'd be like a fucking dystopia based on memes
Memes
And like the court is literally the the court of justice is based on memes I would watch that
Bring in the dancing lobsters
And then new erotic through in a super chat for killing as much star wars as you can
Believe me. We we've killed it three four times this stream alone
Tomorrow who knows it's so dead. Yep. We have fucked star wars up. We're gonna resurrect it soon enough and bring it all the way back down
Eternal tournament here's some money for jay the executive producer. So he may continue funding this toxic podcast show. Happy rhino milk. Good sirs
Thank you have to give me a link
Paypal at some point jay you've actually got a 30 dollars in total coming
What are you gonna spend it on?
um
I'll let you know when the time comes you don't know. I don't know. I don't I don't know either
Probably big old core shape dildos. I mean i'll be real I
I might end up confusing it with like the other money that like I have
I won't keep track of which money it is and then i'll be like i'm spending some money
Like what purchase will you make now that you know that there's 60 more dollarinos in there. Well, that's the thing
I'm really boring. I know that my income
So I save money whenever I don't need to spend it really we okay, you don't you need to spend this though
Oh, is that is that part of the rule? It's law. That is actually yes. It's a law that has some exceptions
You'd call it a rule. I don't know why you're saying. Oh shit. It's free shit
It's free stuff
It is money with the express. Yeah, it's money with the express purpose of spending
I might spend it on an extended edition lord of the rings trilogy box set
All right. All right. All right
Is red letter media's well, i'm sure wolf would be very
Wolf would approve wolf. I want to see what chat's saying to them
Is red letter media's happy to you
Is red letter media's version of jenga from the last black spine episode the most intense piece of media ever?
Oh, yeah. John. It was it was actually really intense to watch that. Yeah, I loved it
I had a feeling that it was going to be that they had two at every single
Year, if you want to be into the tapes there'll be like two structural ones that you could knock out the small ones
But oh it was satisfying when it fell and then it was like oh no now we have to watch all the tape
They should have been shitty at it
If they were shittier at it, then they would have had less misery watching all of them
Uh, this is from southpaw
My dad passed away on thursday night. This stream is just the thing. I needed to get my mind off it for a moment
I'm sorry to hear that man. Yeah, I'm glad we could help
Lux, uh, I hope you're doing okay, dude
Hey rags, I have an external battery for the switch suggestion for you want me to send you the link
It's one I use and it's great
Yes, go ahead and do that because that that might be helpful if i'm never on a long long trip or something
Uh, where can they reach you?
You did to me on discord
And if you can't if you don't know my discord then send it to my channel email which is on my youtube page
You should watch the arrow starring dan acroid I didn't know there was a film he was in called the arrow but
The acroid
I don't remember if you guys have seen ivan ortega's last jedi. If so, what did you think about it?
Also, why is everyone in chat not giving this video a like rhino milk? Um, I know he's made it. I haven't seen it yet. Um
The idea is to he's re-edited the last jedi in full. I need to find time to watch it. It's my bad
Yeah, I don't see how you can save that film with edits. I that's part because you're in
Yeah, it's a big reason for why I want to see it. I want to know what he's done
Unless you're editing it so that every shot is like
From behind the head and you've dubbed over it with new voice lines
I mean maybe
Uh, by the way elita battle angel is a bad adaptation no idea how good a movie it is as such
But I think some of the changes weaken it as a movie
Very well could be this is the thing when you um, maybe point out a movie's flaws
You can often if it's an adaptation
You can often explain the floor through the adaptation be like oh, so they copied this over but they didn't copy this over
And this caused this
But without it it leaves this without its development that sort of thing
And it's often very interesting to be like, oh I see how that happened. Uh
What would a star wars battlefront movie look like and would you see it?
The focus on the 501st division and the troopers personality and the reactions to the war
I'd love to see that. I think that'd be really good. Yeah, i'd be down with it. Yeah
Um, as long as someone good writes it
Disney imhotep slash the mummy star wars grave robbers
What um
I guess they're trying to um
Compare how one thing is is great and one thing can be terrible
I think so
I'm actually not sure they're saying that is not entirely
Star wars is the grave robber. I'm not 100 sure
Fair enough. Maybe
Guys ryan dawson made me realize a black chick is actually
Preferable for ariel. She's from a single parent home steals money from ships consults a voodoo woman
And tries to marry a rich white guy only problem is she can swim but air who cares
How rude get sargon on to talk about starship troopers
We could do that. I don't see why not they'll be easy to find videos that are critical of starship troopers
Have you seen the uh starship troopers like two and three?
Yeah, I saw I definitely saw the second one the third one. I think I saw like
Oh god, it's three years later. We should watch it
Uh, it is actually it is actually amazingly bad
Uh, hey rags. Hey now that you and wolf have super smash brothers, does that mean you two can finally smash?
Um in that way
And uh in a much less fun way. Yeah loving the stream what?
um
youtube super chat senses are incomprehensible last chat got flagged for the words friends and
friends and and really
Well, you could be referring to nazis and other things so they had to preemptively block your uh, yeah
So to read this rice, so he's gotten flagged for friends and a nationality and even a comma
Susan and her apparently that was the combination or not?
I don't know. Maybe it's very simple
And maybe they assume that you're talking about Susan Wojcicki
Oh, he said susan and her tribe build this site women should not be allowed to vote
They shouldn't be allowed to work. This is ra by the way. He can't go single stream
Uh
All the chinese americans in the mulan trailer speaking normal english and then mulan coming in with that moon rune accent was hilarious
I didn't even oh I watched that trailer on mute. That's why I don't know that I watched it while when fringy told me about it
I was just talking to him. I'll put it on mute in the background. I was like, this doesn't look like mulan, but okay
I guess because then I found out that they were like redoing it. I guess
Um cast will smith is mulan. Danny DeVito. Yeah
I'm mulan
But watch it
I will never beat the hands. I will never see lord of the rings make me massive
Oh casting like actors like that as the main characters in these
And like just the least appropriate person possible
Would actually make these Disney remakes like give them a purpose and make them more
People would actually be down with that. Yeah. Yeah
I would watch the fuck out of that
Absolutely. That's Danny DeVito in everything. He's now there with a wig and everything
But Danny DeVito is just every main character in from every film
Yeah
A good stream today sent you a new meme on discord mall. I hope you'll enjoy it next showcase by rags you beautiful massive
Goodbye
See long man really is bad. Can't push out two to three 10 minute or less videos a week that barely provide any kind of actual
criticism without the dreaded
Objectivity clearly means you suck. Hashtag short man best
Well, i've been ruined
Oh, well, you had a good recover
Rags, can you believe these idiots pay pay us for this shit? Oh
Is that a quote from wolf?
At some point possibly. I think it was one of my quotes. Yeah, I think it was one of yours actually
Jim and bad also, when is arch going to guest?
I never know specific dates until the following one, but soon all of these peoples are on lists
I guess big old funky lists. I'd like to see carol danvers get batista bombed
Possible bombs drac's is in the universe we could happen
Oh my
Hi maula, thank you for being a soothing voice of peace
I wish the cap tony and thor battle versus thanos was much longer should have been a trilogy
I would have liked it if we got more of that scene
That was that was my peak investment. I was like, oh my god beat him up guys beat him up
And then they start doing things and it's like woohoo
Like when thor electrocutes iron man you blast him with lasers
cool
Also cap using me only it was good. I guess was cool. Did anyone like that bit? I don't remember
That was great. Yeah, that's right
The area 51 charge is such an obvious desperate damage control signal to discredit accounts who are covering the eppstein story by baiting
Them into retweeting crazy alien stuff
such sleek tricks
What's the eppstein story? Is that I mean?
Epstein got arrested for like a sex ring or something. Huh?
Would love to see some art of bro nold snoke
Bro nold snoke may
I'm down with bro nold snoke
Spider-man revealed his identity
To oh, so this is this is when we were talking about don't spoil anything and he's it's a bunch of fake spoilers
So spider-man revealed his identity to the world art may got shot
He made a deal to give up his marriage with mj for everyone to forget including people who knew oh shit
So this is actually sorry. This is from the comics, I guess
Oh
Is that uh, the what was it ref what was being referenced the
the day something
Uh, one long day should be my google history one more day one more day
I'm afraid to look at my google history. So I guess that's the continuity. That's what happens
He may get shot
He makes a deal to give up his marriage with mj and for everyone to forget including people who knew before his world reveal
Okay
How is it done though people are saying mafesto in chat, is it you cast the spell or some evil devil feel I guess
That sounds weird
Wouldn't the argument for batman killing be more about the justification for him to kill also if his intention was to kill to stop
Someone or the force needed to stop someone resulted in death. That's my point
So when people say batman cannot kill i'm always like isn't it more important
That is his values are remaining intact rather than a certain action
Because like you can make someone take an action for a lot of different reasons. Absolutely
That's the thing. If that is his core value, like nothing supersedes that ever then it could be interesting to see like ways
He tries to worm his way out of it. I don't think that that is who he is
It's like I think if he was in a situation where he knew
like oh if I kill this one person the entire world will be saved then he wouldn't he would do it but
Like it could be interesting to see a character who's essentially got just very clear lines that they weren't cross
Movie binge update again watch terminator two last night and wow was I impressed
Uh, the first one was like a seven out of ten, but this one was outstanding
They really don't make strong characters like they used to yeah, it's like
Typically my stand-in for favorite movie of all time. I've watched that a criminal amount of times. I love
They do make strong female characters like they used to just not in the films that we watch
Not in the films we watch
They're the ones we don't watch. I'm sure they're I'm sure they're around
There's somewhere you gotta go look for it
If the next villain is the rhino then spider-man writers watch efap confirmed
Why would they want to vilify a rhino? Why would they do?
They are the purest of creatures
Like if spider-man was to milk this rhino, I could see that being important
But it wouldn't thus create a villain out of the rhino. That's ridiculous
Spider-man accidentally killed so they should milk each other
I remember reading this before i'm pretty sure this is true spider-man accidentally killed mj with his radioactive sperm in the comics
Should that be in the films?
Wait, what?
I don't know the context for this, but I remember reading it from other people. So i'm assuming it's true. But yeah, apparently
Got radiation poisoning because I guess they fucked and he has
Radioactive sperm because he didn't buy a radioactive spider and they killed him. Imagine fighting that out
God that would be awkward in a film you could do it but man peter your sperm
Didn't you know oh apparently spider-man rain that is and it was never a part of the main comics continuity
Uh more like
I just want to know if anyone in chat has read it. Is it played serious or is it a joke?
What the fuck is this spider sperm
It's the super chat maulus say this in your review voice. Hello, everyone
Welcome to part three of my review of star wars fours awakens before I start i'd like to make the following public service announcement
Don't send your friends scat hentai
Why did you super chat that for 20 dollars? You need to say that in your review voice. No, I don't
It's not something I need to do
That's what the super chat said you have to do it
That's what the super chat said
Well, if we followed all the orders of super chats, we'd be in a very different position. We'd be in a better place
It could be for a meme and you're ruining this person's meme by not doing it
I mean it's from a guy who says a lot of very strange things in super chess
Wrong it's not wrong. Okay, so your face no
Samael I recognize that
Well, we'll talk about hella greedo being a gay on twit
We've already talked about a gay on twit. That was from creepy. She's
the fucking guy
Uh insomniac spider-man is the most spider-many spider-man version sam ramy movies suck mc movies
Don't mc movies don't suck as much but ps4 spidey is the best
I've not actually hit the take the spiders of the sam ramy movies suck as a whole. I don't know anybody who actually typically criticizes spider-man, too
Oh, no, you have seen that take cosmonaut, um, that's why I said typically because
He tried. I don't know what the hell he was doing to that video though
I
He was trying to have a take I don't know
I don't understand that man
Spider-man in the mcu is an amalgamation of several different iterations of spider-man, but at his core. He's still spider-man
He still chose to be spider-man even though it makes his life rough
read
Sorry to say maula, but the efap website will take even longer due to my laptop's death. That is absolutely. Okay
We we love that one regardless
Yeah, you're amazing
You're you're beautiful
You're beautiful wolf and rags banned from twitter for mean words. Meanwhile a terrorist organization. John brown gun club is still allowed to operate
after what just happened
I don't know what happened with the john brown gun club either
Didn't like isis have a twitter for ages. I don't know
Yeah, but they're isis and we're just us
Like I still have no idea what tweet got me banned like they just straight up don't tell you
They're just like, oh, yeah, you were you were promoting hatred against a relay a race a religion or something like that and like where
Where but you know, it's twitter. They're a bunch of you just did get over it
It's the big gay
Did you did you know that george lucas based star wars on the spanish civil war?
Franco was a palpatine
Beta was catholic church hitler was grand Moff tarkin and the defenders of the spanish republic the rebel alliance
Interesting homecoming is a very solid tightly written film
I just have very subjective issues with it feeling more like an iron man spin-off than a spider-man solo film
It's completely a me thing though
Fair enough. I really do see it as a spider-man film with iron man sort of in it for a bit
But every every portion of iron man's involvement is always from peter's pov
and uh
Very short and he typically subverts tony. So he's just more of a fathering figure authority figure sort of
Uh, can't wait for your endgame mayor also. Hi guys, they chose the middle ground
Hello hello, hello
Hello
Oh, yeah, you can say nibba because that's that's the easiest way to get past it
nibba
Got nibba cap nibba thor
It was spider-man
stormtrooper ariel james bond
I mean i'm guessing some of them are the comics or something. I don't know uh that feel when i'm gonna live to see my world
No, there are replacements
Oh, but I mean, you know the ariel one
Assuming he's referenced and james bond
Stormtrooper i'm guessing he's talking about fin
But uh, yeah, spider-man that's not even a replacement. Spider-man would be miles more or less
But that doesn't count right because that's not
I don't think there's even like I don't care enough about races to have hardened fast rules for what characters count
I don't think you should
I think you should keep things as they were originally intended
At least in the sense of don't create new characters
You should create new characters instead of just overtaking old ones just to push what is clearly a political agenda
Which is the big thing that's in now
Opposite like just do whatever you want cast whoever's good like fucking
Uh mj is a good casting. The ancient one is a good casting both of them raceband. Um, and they're both fine
What do you think right
That depends. Oh, I thought that we thought we both kind of they're a thing
I mean, I think it's very obvious why they're doing it. I don't think there's any ounce of artistic integrity behind it
What about um, the ancient one was originally ancient and is now white
What about that why would my rule be any different
Well because that I don't think that would be done for the same political motivation
Maybe wasn't the ancient one a guy would prefer
Yes
So yeah, why not?
My take is typically that if
Those elements are important to the character, then it would affect the adaptation but
typically speaking, I don't know why you would deviate from it if you're trying to make a faithful adaptation if you're just trying to
Create something new with the best resources you have at hand and there is no hint of you don't have jj rooms being like everybody should be
Asian like then yeah go for it. I guess
Yeah, because with disney and stuff that they said
But I I think when disney decides who directs what I think they're very selective about who they choose and for what reasons
And after their clear, uh
Messages, you know messaging that they want to be super into inclusion and diversity and all that stuff
I just i'm not going to give them the benefit of the doubt
But that's based purely on their behavior
Ended the super chat with saying that feel when i'm going to live to see my will turn into brazil
This is from ra by the way waiting for maula's efap approval discord nine nine eight nine nine eight one nine
Don't know what you're referring to exactly
Did you just read out someone's discord to the whole stream? I doubt it whose name on discord is discord nine eight one nine
Wait, no, isn't that the code that goes next to it?
But you both they'd have to have the person's name you need the name yeah
And besides even if they had that you can change your code number if you want
Like mine is 3000
Because I said it that way because it's easy to remember
In fact, there will be a pop quiz on the next efap what my discord number is
It'll be a shitty pop quiz because you can all check whenever you please on discord for the question
I don't know the name that would be we actually like make a little test sheet that you have to
Uh, we have like a pop quiz selection of things. It's like what is the origin of massive and like the four options would be like
Jaxi black panther video joseph anderson twitter argument blah blah blah blah. We just see how many people get everything right
I mean, I think people would I run unironically take that they would probably enjoy doing it
I would take pride in knowing the most of the efap
We probably have fans who get better scored than we did. That's probably true
Someone in the chat is probably going to end up making it now and sending it to us next time
I'm not against that. We could do it live. That would actually be fun as a test
Yeah, if someone actually does that and does a good one, then yeah, we could do that live
Now wolf and rags test it on our own efap law. That would be interesting now
You've said that though. You're gonna get several and you're gonna have to choose
We can do that
I get people who say films don't need to be perfect adaptations
But people who ask why does it matter that she's a redhead should be shoved off a roof
What um, so
When you're adapting mary jane watson, you must have read here
uh
It would be unfaithful not to have who have red hair, but I don't know that
It's going to be a detriment to your story to not have it have red hair
You know, I don't see how hair color is that big of a deal just be color blind and it's fine
Peter developed a crush on mj over five years while they were both piles of ash
I get it
But rex how many nine millimeters can you survive?
Oh fucking hell that yeah, there was a conversation that we had and
I think it was in your your discord the one that because i'm the only one here who actually goes into your discord
Oh, I do
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we had a conversation where this guy was under the impression
From like a die-hard movie or something
That it was unrealistic that someone died from
Two nine millimeter rounds to the chest
And we were all just baffled because we were all we were all baffled by this strange assertion
It was insane. Um
Are we including the potential that one of the bullets hit his heart?
I mean, it's it's crazy. I know you just wrap your mind around it
But of course two bullets to the chest can be lethal. Of course, in fact, they probably will be most times
Yeah, I mean if I was shot in the chest
Twice and I knew an ambulance was on the way. I would look down and be like i'm probably dead
It very well could kill you absolutely
Well, it hit the lung that was all it would take yeah, i'm pretty sure
That was from crime war gaming by the way. I'm pretty sure he's the doom guy
He has the sausage man sausage man
Sausage man
But it nice to see your sausage man
Return of the sausage man or at for efap movies
We would just be laughing but i'm not against the idea
I haven't seen borat
That's I have that's quite the movie or at that's
I remember I remember I saw that when I came out and I had another fucking clue what the hell was going on
I I remember being convinced partially that it was like real
Even though i'm pretty sure a lot of it is ness is kind of like is recorded
Uh with candid like interviews from people actually being like terrified of him or at least very confused
It's good. Shit. Yeah
Like the movie's fake, but I think a lot of the interviews and stuff they did were real
Uh just ate dinner and now i'm back and fucking jay is here. So I guess i'll pay him too. Gee
Geode team geode
When you're gonna have joe rogan on efap, I would have joe rogan
You were welcome joe rogan. You are absolutely welcome to come on efap whenever you'd like
Uh rags, I find your lack of prequel love disturbing shall I educate you on their brilliance?
Sure, you can try
Uh, do I mean I like the prequels in like a meme meme way. I don't think they're quality, but they're like silly
Mimi
Yeah, I think he's referring to like actually well written I think anyway, um
I mean he can think that if he wants
From my perspective the jedi are evil
Do captain marvel cinema wins video now maul are you absolute massive we will consider it in the future according to jay
Many people wish to see it
I've yeah, let's do it. So people want you to do it
your opinion jay
Based on
You keep getting super chats about it
I thought well, maybe maybe i've just blanked them in my head. I don't know
Uh, I recently bought a collection that has all of the extended middle-earth movies
Should I watch the extended hobbit movies since I now have them or should I skip them?
Um, I don't know about the extended hobbit movies
I actually don't really know what a lot of the deleted scenes are in those her lord of the rings
Definitely without a question. What's the extended and if the question is uh
So you watch the first or second trilogy before I have to just go with lord of rings first
In case I don't even know if this is possible, but in case the hobbit movies somehow
Drain a bit of the magic out of of lord of rings. I don't think that happens, but don't risk it
Um only give this money I don't think only give this money to rags when he makes another video. Otherwise you keep it more
All right. I think you've got another one on the way soon, don't you?
Yeah, I'm I'm working on it
It's a little bit long it turned out to be longer and a little bit more in depth than I thought
But I think that's just because i'm naturally long-winded. I need to get myself to
Talk less actually
Long because I think that that bogs me down. Yeah
I just go and go for fear of not being thorough enough
I yawn more I yawn. Yawn. Are you bored maula? Do we bore you? I'm just tired
I've not slept like at all. It's too hot these days
I can't sleep when super hot. I've been over this with recommends an air conditioner
I'm considering
If they don't have those in the kingdom, they don't exist lies. You can ask a warlock to create one for you
Well, when's the last time you saw a warlock
Um, well, here's the thing. Maybe we see warlocks all the time and we just don't know the
Warlocks
Maybe I do know that warlocks. How do you assume these things about me? I didn't assume anything. I said maybe
I had change. Why did you assume that I assumed? Oh
Look guys, you've been friends for years. You have to do this
Perfect for years. Oh speaking of years. When is the when is the first anniversary of efap?
It is the 22nd of august which is a month and
seven days from now
And are we gonna have a party? Well, the crazy thing is a month and seven days
That's a guarantee of at least five efaps. We we're doing 43 right now. Is it so
I'll leave us up to 48
Which theoretically we could start the quote unquote
24 hour one and it could cross from 48 to 49 to 50 to 51. It could be four episodes to make the 24 hour
I don't know. That would seem really weird. It would be weird
I I think it should be I think we should have 50 bv 24 hour efap
In that case we can have the anniversary efap and then a few weeks later would be the 24 hour one I get
Yeah, absolutely. We have a lot of celebrating to do I guess
I think so. What special thing would you do for the anniversary?
Uh, you're our manager. Tell us
Yeah manager
Uh have every guest you've ever had on return
Yeah, absolutely. We'll just cycle them in and out. Well, no because we got to do that for 24 hour one
Yeah, I was gonna say that's the plan for 24. So
I'll put for that
I'll probably just open a giant fucking twitter
Like group and just have the invite for everybody and be like don't join if there's already a lot of people
For the anniversary of efap cover the first episode of efap
That's interesting. I don't know that that would work. We would just be watching us. I don't know
It'll be so confusing for the audience because it will be your voices cutting to your voice
We had to get the same profile pictures and everything
All of us have changed then we've all evolved since then
Oh, man, I used to be such a shit critic back then but now evolved. I'm super critic
Well, we'll do something we got to think about it what what what is it the thing that needs to be dunneth
Uh, which episode nine actors bathwater has the most herpes?
Oh, uh, definitely. Uh, definitely trans
Who's trans because kylie marie tran. Oh, kelly marie tran
Kylie kelly marie tran kylie marie tran's
Oh, no. No, I said trans is in tran apostrophe. Yes possessive
trans bathwater. Oh
Yeah, I follow now
That is that was a good payoff for the set of billions
I messed up on the kylo kylie kai kuri thing. I didn't know her first name because I just don't care about her
In really any capacity trek. Yeah
Fat asian, bitch
Oh
Sorry, I just don't like the mcu in general. I felt it's too far removed from the source material for my takes
However, I am glad others have fun
Fair enough
Hi there rags
Hey, hi. How are you? Have my money. Also. Did you guys see quinton's vid kissing contra points?
But all that for some kuchi that's dedication
I actually yes, I did watch it. It's a very strange video
He um, I don't know if he's like trolling but he seems to think that
She's like the be all and end all of youtube creators. I was like, okay, it's very odd
I don't know if I trust people who say that i'm not a nazi is what a nazi would say
Yeah, it takes like that ball of shit on me. It's what anyone would say
What a human being would say
It's like i'm not a murderer. That is something a murderer would say. That's something a murderer would say
Like fucking brilliant commentary contra woman. What has quinton done to his appearance?
Yes, what hasn't he done
Like he looks different, but I can't tell if it's like exactly why i'm gonna assume it's gained weight
his glasses are different his glasses are different and his beard is different but like
I don't know if that's it, but he's he's confusing me
Yeah
Visually he's a confusing person
Jay died of the big gay in my meme. How is he here?
Well
Your meme perhaps it was a prophecy
So I was i'm like group. So, uh, like a finger of me survived and uh, the finger was planted and now i'm
I I grew from a trimming
Ah, he grew from a trimming
You know that is that is the visual effect it often has so that's fair enough
John conner dead james bond getting metude boulan looks dumb lion king is horrifying
What a terrible year for movies in this cursed timeline
But what a great year for efaps
Was this year
It was this year. Yeah, you're right
But we got godzilla king of the monsters
Now what else was this year?
John wick three
Don't like three king of the month. I've seen that I didn't like the first one and people say that one's the best one
Oh, man, you didn't like the first one. Wow. Wow, really? No, I thought it was boring you're boring
You're supposed to dislike the second one not the first one jay you got it all wrong
And now I wait marvel came out, oh, oh, yeah, it seems like
Shazam was all right. It's pronounced shazam
shazam
as I remember
I'm the shazam
Wouldn't she isn't hasn't told me how does hollywood hate redheads or why does they hate redheads? I don't know
I like redheads. I approve
Everybody should have a redhead statistically redheads are the are generally found to be the least attractive
Male, I don't know
Possibly
Uh to me adaptations are like historical accuracy. It doesn't have to be one for one
But if it doesn't capture the spirit it can be disrespectful thoughts rags
The spirit is okay. I'm fine with the spirit. But even with everything i've heard I don't think that
Like spider-man homecoming betrays the spirit of spider-man
Also, i'm not sure that that's comparable like adaptation to historical accuracy. What about alt history?
Did it could I say alt history is the thing
That an adaptation is like alt adaptation or alt source at us or an adaptation is I don't know
Yeah, at what point do you draw the distinction between just adapting it differently and saying it's alternate
So, I don't know. It's weird the example of two buses full of kids
It's kind of funny argument more since that was sort of what happened in the dark night
Yeah, kind of the thing is the choice wasn't batman's. It was the people's
I give it to you
You guys are a lot smarter than I am, but i'm glad that i'm able to watch these streams
The through molar I found world-class bullshits and rags and wolf then efap has introduced me to a wealth of other great content creators
Thanks a bunch. No problemo
Hooray, no, we're not that smart. Oh, I am but no. Yeah
We're gonna be smart too. You just kind of just learn absorb it all, you know
Make it more important to be kind and consistent and wise
Make gab slash minds accounts. Have you got either of those rags?
I do have a gab account. I need to use it. I don't even think about it. I just don't even think about social media
I mean, like I said, I only typically use twitter to keep track of stuff. Not it's not something I would do for enjoyment
Like it's not like I would like yeah, I like to spend time on this site. It's like no
No twitter is awful twitter has made humanity worse
I
Think the problem is the mcu has nerfed all of the heroes except carol to make them all more human
Spider-man is literally the strongest in the comics
Is he?
I don't know. I thought thor was the strongest in the comics. Is he stronger than thor? Is he stronger than carol?
I know he's strong but um
See you see what chat says
We got I thought of a store who is supposed to be the strongest in the comics
I honestly don't even know
Spider-man is a god. He's really strong apparently hulk is the strongest maybe
Spider-man spider sense is pretty okay. Spider-man is stronger than hulk
Spider-man is not the strongest always literally a god. No, he's not
Spider-man was nerfed in the mcu
Hulk spider god hulk is strongest
No one's ever really dawn, okay
um
I like the new spider-man, but I think
No one cares what I think lol. The argument is it would be better if parts of the comics were in it
I'll just go and read the comics and it can be something I can else I can enjoy. Um
I wouldn't even say no to that. It's like yeah, maybe
But there's probably parts of the comics that could be improved too, right?
And then this is not really relevant to the concept of adaptation at that point
It's just a matter of yeah, the writing could be improved
specifically
I was here two hours ago and you beautiful massives are still live. Yes
Yeah, boy. Why are you talking about spooda man phase four is coming out
What you two give me a free super chat so hi rags
Hello. Hi. Thanks for giving me your free super chat
It's kind of like when some say that final fantasy seven
Uh remastered will be bad if it doesn't have turn based combat if I want to play a turn based ff7 i'll play the original
Oh
Yeah, this is this is where it gets very it's like
It's hard to draw rules all over these things
If you were to have I guess we get into the conversation about the difference between remasters remakes and
I guess is there an adaptation version of video games?
Yeah, I guess is when you make like movies album and stuff
And typically the adaptations of video games into movies are like horrifically bad, but they're typically pretty bad
regardless of the source material
But you don't need to argue the the doom movie isn't like doom and that's why it's bad
It's just terrible
It's awful and everyone should see it. Yes. Yes
Uh, which actors are you most interested in meeting that you haven't met yet?
Amelia clark and mark hannell. I'm like
Yeah, that would be one
By the way, I met jamie serie ogilly and brawn actors yesterday. Awesome. Uh
I'd be interested in meeting a lot of people i'd like to meet charles dance
I want to see if he's like as as impactful in person as he is when he's playing his
characters
And talk to his panel shows a lot, right?
Oh, yeah, i've seen him on um
What's the would I lie to you? Is it or yeah? Would I lie to you? He's great on that. Yeah, he was funny
He makes such an actually entertaining
J throw in fucking shade. Oh boy. Um rlm just uploaded thin very quickly
Rlm just uploaded a star wars episode 9 predictions video and mike thinks it's going to be like a full-on time travel story to retcon
Hence the episode 4 metal anakin's lightsaber and palpatine plus falcon has old radar dish
I would be surprised but anything's possible
Yeah, that's possible. Maybe that would be so funny
They can use their accidental fuck-ups as a way to put time travel in but then if they do time travel after in-game
this time travel people will be like oh
Would they though if it means that they undo tfa and tlj?
Dude, oh, yeah
So funny if they did it they'd piss off pretty much anybody they've got left in their fan base
I couldn't I wouldn't I want to see patrick williams annoyed about that
I can't believe they went back on every amazing thing that they didn't start
Brave
And now it's cowardly and weak
Replaying some games to 100% them right now and it's turned out to be a great way of learning
Just how bad a game really is used to love the arkham games for example
But now I want the designers to be shoved off a rooftop. Why'd you keep shoving people off rooftops rah?
You're gonna stack up the bodies and eventually they won't actually die. They'll just fall down this little stack and they'll be like oh
You're seeing you're seeing me using the one rooftop
Even if he's using multiple ones if he keeps doing this you'll fill them all
All the buildings
Green new deal
What do you mean jay? That's just a matter of not trying hard enough
Every building yeah, you know about that. You know about not trying hard enough jay as our manager. Oh
How dare you?
Each iteration of the multiverse is designated a number mcu being earth
1999 99 took me a few movies until accepted that the movies can't follow earth 6 1 6 main comic storyline
Well, they can
I mean
I don't know what he means by can't if he's referring to the fact that once they get so far
They can't possibly be it anymore or as he said, yeah, I guess this is clearly contradictory information. It wouldn't have like
Um, there wouldn't be anything wrong with it. I guess but
Uh, the emperor throws ray down a crevice into the planet's core. That's my ideal scenario for episode
I wouldn't fucking clap
Potentially like we did it
Palpatine will be redeemed by killing ray
Love that scenario
Hey maul is still finishing your dark souls 2 10-part series in the background while I play dark souls 2 scholar first and epic job
On that one for dunking on harris. I hope it makes that game more enjoyable, sir, because
I don't want to have to return to it ever again
Based on what I saw the video. I don't even want to play it. It's I wouldn't recommend it
But I think I say at the end of my video if you're a dark souls fat
And you're just curious like you just want to play all the games like just go for it. But
Oof
Uh, I think boba fett will be the most consistent in episode nine
Inconsistent in episode nine j loved you in the eric taxon and jack efap seemed pissed
Yeah, that was you you were the that was the meanest you'd ever been I think that wouldn't you
Yes, I think so I don't normally get mean
No, you're a nice man. It's
It's right to the end of buddy fap. So they haven't seen it
They didn't well, they haven't covered it. I don't know if they've watched that far or not, but they didn't uh
On their stream. I was like
I was waiting for them to get to the the real like
Oof moments and then they just stopped and I was like, oh
damn
They'll never know the true most disappointed or relieved
but
Uh, I meant the one where he flies in saying business is good
Oh
uh
Well, so that takes place right after the um
The opening scene with with him at avenger's tower collecting the thing and it's just to tell us what he did over those
Eight years that passed
Like here he is. This is his team. They're building shit out of the alien tech combining with earth
They're boxing it
That's being sold and then we're like, so how are they getting all this shit?
And then he flies in with his suit and we're like, oh
He drops the things and he's like business good so it's like yep, I understand how this works
Um, I guess your argument is your argument that we didn't need that and that we would have grasped it from seeing him
At any other point in the movie anyway
Because uh, I think it makes a good base for understanding
Where he's at in the film so that once we return to him, it's uh
Easier to follow doesn't take a lot of time either
Yeah, it's pretty quick and I find it a very impactful scene because you're like, holy fuck
Look at that that suit and you've got this whole operation and it's like
Yeah
That eight years was spent. Well
Uh, will marvel still get cameos for holland spidey?
Uh
I don't know. Actually, that's a good question. I don't know if the mcu gets access to tom holland
Or if I had they don't
Um, uh, love the sex love the sex slave suits in far from home
What oh no, I really want to see it
Oh, I got that same comment. I got that same comment and I was really confused
I swear i've heard that before
Continuity doesn't equal adaptation. Does that apply to a prequel? Let's say like solo or the hobbit
Also there in continuity
like the reason they call it a prequel instead of
Let's say referring to the original as the sequel of the prequel like you know
I mean is because the prequel is
Technically a sequel in that it's a piece of the story that comes after the one in terms of our continuity of how time is linear
But it takes place before so it has to be classified differently, but it's still in continuity
That's why you got to be really careful with prequel stories
Compared to sequel ones because sequel ones are usually much more free to explore while prequel ones a lot of things are locked in
Like certain events have to occur so a lot of payoffs can be
Yeah, while events can be anything in a sequel. So, um, but yeah, uh, you know, like a solo film is fucking
Crap, and we didn't need it and didn't want it
And uh yet it is canon and it is a part of the ot now or if you only consider the ot the only canon like, you know
Depends on how you define how canon is uh, how canon is defined?
Uh, have they heard of arch? He asks he's clearly not watched the rp streams by the way rags still coming for days boy puss
For who's
Cleena watch the rp streams by the way rags still coming for day boy puss
Does that make any sense to you day boy puss? I don't know if that's referencing your rp streams with arch
I
Don't actually know what that is referring to no. All right then
Continue though. I found it by the way. I found uh, it was on uh
I found a comment that said love the sex slave suits
And it was left on the stream. I did with fringy and other people talking about far from home
Yay, congratulations for coming out of the closet very brave of you. Thank you. It was very difficult
I feel to be straight now
Um weird and really boring
Oh being in the closet ain't boring
J is efaps nick fury
Don't disagree with this because I played by samuel jackson. Yes, who would you cast to play live action admiral thrawn?
I was talking it was going to be matt smith, wasn't it blue charles dance?
Charles that's too old for a one. I don't know
Do we know that that's not who matt smith is playing?
I don't know. Honestly. I don't know what's going to happen
I remember reading some way that apparently matt smith isn't as involved in the film as people thought
The degree that he's like not even
Seeable in it or some shit
Oh, but we'll see we'll see
We'll see the first thing that comes up when you search matt smith is matt smith emperor palpatine
Yes, could you imagine
Kennedy cabbage patch, uh, please finish the stream so I can watch rlm's video
We're all gonna do that as soon as the stream's over. We're we're trying
Brad and grand admiral dawn. I mean I can see it
Let's take the time to appreciate how the new little mermaid actress's eyes are just a little bit too far apart
I have been told that
Uh, hi rag
Hello
True fact 90 percent of people's of people sorry 90 percent of people of herpes, but only certain people show symptoms
So 90 percent of people have herpes is always saying people have herpes. I don't know that's true
I don't think I have herpes rags. What is your favorite best of the worst episode?
Um
That's tough
That is tough
Surviving edged weapons is really good
Um, I really like creme lazar
There's a lot of that's the thing. There's a lot of good ones
There's a lot of good ones. I rewatch them often. I've
Halloween ones are good that one where they yeah the hallelujah where they get really drunk. I love that bit. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah
But it just it just cuts to jay looking at rich she goes why is rich freaking out
Rich is like sitting there dude
Rich is a hollywood star. He doesn't drink
Red letter media posted episode nine predictions spoilers time travel
Looking forward to it rags and co thoughts on yms
I keep hearing you guys mention him briefly but never get to hear anyone going on any in any depth
I used to really like him
And now his videos are just
Um
Yeah, iram my favorite stuff from yms is his coverage of the walking dead, uh,
after earth
Synecdoche new york, I believe that's how you pronounce that and um
The old boy video was really good too
But yeah, the majority of stuff these days is a quick thoughts on a movie he's seen and you might be like
Well, what's wrong with that? And i'll be like i'll tell you what's wrong with that
When you can literally change the title of the movie
He's talking about and nothing else in the video and it stays the same as every other one
It gets a little bit tiresome. That's all
I get bored of hearing about how a movie is boring and his acting is not very good
cgi was okay
That design could have been better
But overall the plot was all right and the characters were you just get all these like sort of casual statements and you're just like, okay
you don't
um, all I get from the video is a big thumbs up thumbs down or thumbs middle I guess and
That would be the short vision and I could just settle for that
But I never really came to his videos to know whether or not he liked a thing. I love the way he breaks stuff down
Whether or not he liked it was never hugely relevant. Uh, and that's not supposed to be some kind of insult
I actually really like his work and I think that the value is that he used to get a lot of information out of stuff
But he watches a shit ton of movies
So, um
He's got a lot of work to do and uh, this is the kind of format he wants to run with for now. So
There we are
Hopefully that answers that when is tfa part three, please? I need more content to stave off my depression. It's on the way
But my god, i'm not going to give a prediction of when because it'll be wrong
It's like a card. It'll be it'll be a bad man. Bad. I can't do it. Uh, could ray be shimmy skywalker?
Why would how?
She goes back in time
Superior spider-man is best spider-man. I don't know what superior spider-man
I agree that superior spider-man is best spider-man. The better one is the better one
I agree
Uh, this is a question for everybody. What is your favorite type of hentai?
Um
Let me see
Because I don't actually watch hentai. I'm not into hentai actually
Uh, but i kept it here and there
So I like all right. I'll tell you what I don't like. I don't like really unrealistic proportions, especially on the female breasts
I think that
Extremely large boobies are like really weird and I can't I can't get into that
I like realistically proportions
We're talking about hentai
Oh, and I was I was saying that I like realistic proportions in my hentai
And I don't like extremely large breasts and extremely tiny waists. It's just it's really a turn off for me
It's too weird
I like like if I can't see myself fucking them then it's just like uh doesn't work
What do you think jay
Oh very important yes
There we go
Morla you fiend have I not been good to you? This will not go unforgiven now
My friend who respects you won't stop harassing me with gross hentai
Well, that was a relevant super chat considering the previous one
Yeah, I tend to omit some spidey comics because it seems some authors are dealing with personal issues through their writings spidey rain number one
One more day emphasized this
Okay
Uh actually found efap through tro's video watched rag's video because tro's felt lacking in context
I liked it then I found mauler etc
My first thought after watching rag's video was huh that quinton guy's full of it. Love you all rags is a good boy
Thank you. I agree that uh, that video was very it needed a lot of context and had very little
That's actually and they were just straight up lies about the shit. We said one of the very few videos that we never finished
You know, like efap's not known for that. You never finished it
We got i'd have to check the vod, but we got I think we had like another seven minutes left
And we we just ran out of fucking steam. I'm pretty sure that's what happened
We got to like 24-hour refap
I mean we could watch the rest of it as a sort of throwback in the 24-hour efap just to be like hey rags
Remember this shit
Let's see what else they say shit. Yeah, I remember that genuine
Genuine suggestion for the the uh anniversary one. By the way, it would be to have uh
All of the most regular guests back on
Oh, wow
What a strange suggestion. What do you mean? What do you mean by all the most regular guests you mean?
He means him jay just wants to be on
How dare you
That would be fringy me and uh, yeah see alex
I
Guess it were you fringy alex and das bullshit, right?
I think they're the they're the most regular out of everybody
I think das bullshit according to efap.me has only been on three times and there's a lot of people looking on three
I like how that's like the cannons. Well, we don't know if it's been updated
In fairness, I don't think that's bullshit has been on since the last time
updated
It's got efap 41 up there
Yeah, the other thing though is that um
Both fringy and alex's free time is very like it's it's complicated
Um, well, that's true. They're not like you they're not written poorly. So they just turn up all the time
You gotta fix that shit jay, otherwise people won't believe you're real
Jay is actually me i'm just lip-syncing really well with just how I can even interrupt myself
I hope they have rags on as a guest with the 24-hour efap
Expolitions there
Uh the antifa guy firebombed an ice building
Yeah, I heard about that. I haven't watched any videos on it because I just woke up an efap
But yeah, then an antifa guy fire bombs and ice hq or whatever like burned up a car
And they shot and killed him
Because he's a terrorist
Oh, well, um, I can't wait to hear more about that
Who defends it?
Yeah, I know that that's pretty aggressive. Well, you saw the whole thing with the uh
the the
The guy who got it. Yeah. Yeah, so you have
They're like the the the thing about h bomber guy for example, like making fun of it and then he was like, oh fuck that happened
Okay, and they have to drop the memes almost
Like yeah, this isn't a good thing that's happening. Don't don't actually hit them like that. Holy fuck
and I just like to think of it as a sort of
Partial wake-up call sometimes it's like you realize like a lot of what you guys
Spout out can encourage this in the same way that it had you can argue it happens in reverse
And it should be done and it's
I don't think I don't think they see any I don't know if they would see
Milkshake being thrown on anyone as a bad like a problem until you put yeah unless someone they like
Yeah until you put concrete in there
I think you know, it's how you draw your morals
I guess like in the in that contra points promotional video that quinton did he he recommends you should hit people who are fascists
on the head with an egg
And it's the kind of thing we are like, um
There's a lot of things that could happen as a result of that not to mention you endanger the shit other person who does that
If the person has security
I'm sorry. I was just like I don't exactly trust you guys to properly identify fascists
Like yeah, that's don't live in a world where that's genuine advice being given if you see a fashion hit them with an egg
I did this for me. It's like why what the fuck are you doing? Like
Someone's gonna do that and they're gonna get the shit beat out of them
Yeah, and then it'll be like look how fascist this person is beating up this person
All they did was hit with an egg they defended themselves. They hit me back when I threw shit at them
How evil are they?
I contacted molar to see if I could come on
So typically with efap guests like we I don't want to um, I was talking to wolf about this
I was like imagine we did some form of a if you contact us
We'll let you on some kind of like listed thing. I was like, uh, it'll never work besides
It'll come across as really unfair because
I imagine we'd get a lot of requests
We'd never be able to get through them and then we'd have to vet people as well to make sure their microphones are like
Decent for the show and that they wouldn't be mainly silent. There's a lot of process to go through. So instead
Typically when you know, we respond to a video
We have a fellow content creator. That's very interesting in coming on
They've got like a whole wealth of videos that we can draw from to see how they're gonna
Work as a guest and try and get videos that suit them, etc
um, and that's that's why it's it's really
Respectful when when we have like a person we've covered come on with like no context and they're able to actually like
like the doom guy or sausage man or um
No, man gaming or or even just right back in the day
You know
They don't have any context
They're apparently going into a lion's den and they still pull it off as opposed to being invited as a friendly guest
but uh
Yeah, we don't necessarily have a if you ask to come on you can come on sort of thing going with um
viewers because
I don't know how it would work in an efficient and fair way, but uh
It would be like people need to understand that for calls
Especially if you have a fairly loquacious bunch of individuals like five is really pushing it
You know
The fucking sixth bad one that we had was the thing when you have six you can have it so that it's not a rambling mess
But you'll have several people not talking for an extended period of time
And at that point it's like why have you brought on six when not everyone can even talk?
um
The other two extremes you have it so that everyone's fucking talking over each other or
It is taking in turns, but someone's like is wolf dead or is jay dead?
Typically I find that this the best number is four it seems to be
You can make five and six work. We should maybe test if 17 works on a celebration stream, but I I don't think
Is there a captor this could cause of how many people can be in them? I don't know
Good question
probably
Silent night deadly night part two for efap movies, please
I think i've heard of that
Dear potential Alex jones and joe rogan on next efap. Do you understand that we would oh
I would like have them on then just say like go and just sit back and listen
Thanks for the stream guys give j5 geode and split the rest between rags and the long man very well
Hey, what are you gonna spend the five geodes on?
Uh game thrones the officially licensed browser
The official license browser game
Well officially licensed browser officially licensed browser. Yeah
Covering efap one means covering jared don't know if that kills the idea
I mean, I don't even know irrelevant of jared i was just saying and I don't even know how it would work
And it seems almost like weirdly vain
We're just gonna sit there waiting for us to react to things so we can react to us reacting to it
It feels weird
Yeah, we could do it with like a super cut of like
long time too
Make it all memes or something save up the memes until the anniversary
Have like a theme of nostalgia memes. I don't know
Yeah, we could like I could look through the meme archives and pick out all the favorites
Make it the efap log quiz
I mean we need someone to make that don't we is that what you're saying?
100 making that
Yeah, but we gotta make sure
Like there's no way that we would need it ahead of planning for the thing. We'll set that
I mean people are going to be sending them to you
Uh, that's that's definitely going to happen, right?
People who don't that's not gonna people who don't like john wick seem to not like the by the numbers gun fights
Oh, I mean jay said it was boring
No, I just
I just find it interesting
Yeah, the action was cool, but there wasn't enough like for me to grab onto there with character
Keanu reeves is the baba yaga who in the folklore sneaks into people's houses at night and counts their spoons
Also neo who says there is no spoon
Oh
What that makes complete sense if you don't understand it you're a massive
I don't know how many spoons I have
I know the last time I spooned was
But I don't know how many spoons I have
Ginger is an anagram for n word change my mind
That's a fact
Change your mind
Found you guys through rag is keep up the good stuff. Praise be the dawn. Yay
What i'm saying is if the source material is good go read the source material if the new stuff is well written and works
Why is it a problem?
Because it's different because it's not because it's not like the comic that I like what you'll find is they'll ask the question
Well, then why adapt it in the first place?
And then I suppose you could make arguments for how it's false advertising
It's like hey fans of this come check out this and it's like but this isn't this and uh, you came and saw it lol
Always a risk you take with an adaptation. It's not false advertising because you expect there will be something different
It's not going to be I don't know about that
It's not going to be a paddle for paddle didn't someone say there's always a risk when you buy a game that it'll be bad
Well, yeah, there is always a risk when you buy a game
No, no, no
So what i'm referring to is if a game has the advert it's advertised as let's just say great graphics
And then it turns out to not have it. It's like well, you took that risk when you bought it
Well, no because that's that's specifically
Saying like giving a measure of quality
Whereas if an adaptation has okay, what if the game says it has a 20-hour campaign and it's a 10-hour
Well, that's that's a specifically like factual thing if it's just being advertised as this is a game
It's about this and it's about that but it's not about that in the way you wanted it to be
So like say you buy a world war two game and all it'd been advertised as it's like oh, it's a world war two game
And then it's mostly about like the conflict in japan and you're like, oh, I was hoping for more german stuff
Then that's not
a false advertising
Interesting
My brain is interested. Yeah, that one would be fine because not all world war two is in there in europe
Uh
In the comics there are characters way stronger than the ones we've seen in the mcu
But it's hard to say who's the strongest adam warlock is high up
I've got one
Uh doctor who is a great example. There were two reboots of it
What they were both really different from the original show
One everyone hated and one everyone loved but they were both really different from the original
And the one everyone loved is still going today. And now it's really shit
You're still planning to make a video for that
Oh, yeah, that's coming. That's that's like my big project. That's probably going to be several hours of content me
only man
massive
I'm missing most of this watching shazam. It's funny so far
No
The final fantasy seven example was just an old thing had this new thing
Therefore does uh doesn't therefore bad wasn't trying to go into the classifications of different media. Hope this helps a bit more
Sorry, I didn't explain it. No, it's all we did
like I said
It depends. I would I would be like how is it classified because if you like remake a game
What does a remake entail and what do you have to pay attention to if you?
want to
what would be the equivalent of
Let's say I took I was gonna say so. Oh, well he actually what is that considered?
But I think what was the original I guess it's it's a remake is what is considered
But they changed the entire like camera combat perspective, which is a huge deal
but it was still the characters in the places and
They it was it was close enough to where it was basically a retelling of the same things
Yeah, I think I think i'm just getting caught up on what I think a remake is and i'm like i'm pretty sure that's what I think a remake is
Maybe
Jay, I just say your new vid. I can't believe some of high top's criticisms far from home
Is probably my favorite spider-man movie for mysterious alone take my dollar jay
Oh, thank
You know after paypal takes their cut. I don't even worry about it
I find it funny that cover that as well. Well, there's the thing youtube take 40 percent as far as i'm aware of uh,
Shit, so no, 30 youtube takes 30 percent. So you got 70 cents and then paypal might have a
Small transaction fee. That's why I believe you you might not even get I mean fuck why bother
Just keep it smaller
I gotta i'll pass it along. I actually pass along the values that they intend because it's uh
No, it's only it's so every
So every time someone does that you lose money
Yes, but it's it's fine because I mean i've got a lot of other super chats
So it's definitely gonna fill the gap. So it's okay. You see every every um
Every efap one of the super chats is designated as the recuperation super chat that makes up for the transaction fees of all the
People it's very it's complicated business people started sounding like this is for for j. This is the recuperation for j
Just like fucking shit tons
Whenever you send super chats that are recoup fees. Make sure you label them label them clearly for the person
You know, that's gonna happen now
You may have made a meme there rags. I don't know
You don't want anybody you don't want anybody to get screwed over
I find it funny that brie larson is calling for lgbt representation in the marvel universe when she's playing one and she seemingly doesn't know
I think her point is if she wants more right not just I think she does
Wait, she lgbt is
lesbian gay trans
Queer no lesbian gay bisexual
Transqueer so she's not any of those you call them. She's not any of those right
Questioning i'm question. Yeah, I question a lot of these people
Like uh, is what is she supposed to be what
I was going to say like I don't think captain marvel's the big gay. Is she
She could be like I don't know
She doesn't have vibes with whatever that other woman was I guess yeah guess she wasn't gay
Like she uh, she emoted more than she emoted with most people with her
Uh
Superior spider-man is an arc in the comics where dark arc steals peta's body and becomes authoritarian extremely effective at stopping crime spider-man
Hmm. Oh my interesting
You should read metamorphosis great hentai
Okay, new zealand psycho with israel ties shows up mosque
Facebook and congress go crazy trans kid shoots up school bernie fans shoot up dozens of gop congressmen
That's antifa use molotov. Oh, yeah, that's right. That happened a few years ago. Jesus
Yeah, there's some super
Obviously, it's not bernie sanders fault, but um, which is where we would differ from fucking crazy lefties
but yeah, some crazy bernie sanders fans shot up, uh
senators like
baseball practice session that happened a few years back and he got hit a couple times and
Almost died. I forget the guy's name though is years back
Yay people
How about you just don't go around and don't shoot people? I like I like the whole don't shoot people thing
Go to stick with that
Um, I am being blocked in chat for calling antifa a domestic terrorist organization. Well, apparently they didn't block it in the super chat
But uh, well, yeah, if you pay youtube money, what's fine?
YouTube's like hmm. I guess i'll let that slide if you let it pass. How about a bribe?
um
But yeah, they're a domestic terrorist organization though, and then I think we actually have
Uh three recoupes
In super chats and then we've reached the end. Oh, yeah
So, yeah just make okay, so there's a couple of memes
Go ahead and crap
Crap them. I gotta check my twitter as well. See if i've missed
Which of I will absolutely missed always more
You
This
Okay, yeah anyway
Is this watch together
No, there are five images
Oh there was a video that I got linked but i'll save it for wolf in case it has wolf references
I will also remove
The other gentlemen's we don't ping them with things they may not get
Okay, this is um movie bob's episode nine I guess
Nazis gay eugenics a bad rap. You're doing great, sweetheart
That's uh movie bob is evil that fucking picture of movie bob as well
Oh my god
Uh, don't even
This is like a deep fried meme
Wasn't movie bob one because he's fat. Oh, I get it
It says apologize for this sliv mauler. Thanks
Harris is a fog hat. Yeah. I um a lot of people
posted that on twitter who like very anti me as like, um
evidence of me being a naughty person, um, so that's in my ds2 series and uh, there was a stream
Where I was naming my character and I literally say like oh, it'll be a really funny easter egg
If uh people look at the name of the character when i'm loading it and it'll say harris is a fog hat. Um,
Yeah, because I thought it would be funny. Uh, this was back before I realized that using these words
upsets people to a massive degree
Um a massive degree
So I thought it was now you said it. I know i'm sorry. I'd use another slur
Um now jay said it. He's a manager. You're supposed to know better
But uh, yeah, you won't catch me apologizing because of I had this conversation with fucking joseph addison for like a day
Not how apologies work
Uh for me apologies have to mean a lot
I don't i'm not going to apologize for taking an action that's supposed to make people laugh like telling a joke when someone
Said that they were upset by it
because by that logic
we're all going to be um apologizing all day long for lots of actions and things we do and
And that was a that was something that was informed by a conversation with turbo button
Like I think I told you guys about it, but I was just like what if
People turned around on you and said toilet is an offensive word because it refers to actions
We take in private or something like that
Stop saying toilet at any point or loo or restroom. These words are offensive. You're like, uh
Uh
No, like you know, it depends on where you draw the light I suppose
So interestingly though if the entire world like including all of your friends and family had that viewpoint
It probably would get drawn out of you eventually. You'd probably stop using it just because of the uh,
The reactions you keep getting from people
Well, if everyone took massive offense when you said toilet, there would be no reason to say toilet
Yeah, it essentially changes the method of communication. It's no longer a valid or useful thing for you to even say anymore
Yeah, and so that's when you have two conflicting large audiences
one that reacts with laughter when you use a word and the other that
you know reacts in anger and
Disgust and then you have one guy saying so which which which one, you know, do you use it or do you not?
You're like, um
I don't know. It seems kind of complicated and I think the argument they would make is like well
Sacrifice those people's laughs for those people's disgust as in don't use it find a different way to make all of them laugh
It stifles
Anyway, I think this is a reference to be saying that um, is the breathing life into star wars more of a review
You know what I still find this amusing
I
Like that the word massive is officially ruined massive has not ruined it's been improved
And then we got the bayouin meme which
If people don't quite get it
You've got neuterotic a spider-man against me as iron man with jeff and rags in the background
Just having a chill out and watching
I see
I see
If ab civil war I like that a lot like the neuterotics beard is uh visible behind the mask
Very cool
Very clever
Yes, very cool
Yeah, that about draws us to a wonderful clothes for efap number 43
I don't wear clothes
That's disgusting
Um, it's just thank you everybody for uh for watching. I hope you enjoyed it
This has been heavily requested the whole homecoming debate and I know
There's gonna people who are like damn it. They not only fucked up the debate. They've wasted it
They should have blah blah blah. There's gonna be a lot of like people who are upset with how we did it
I I don't know. I've just we brought on people who
I think perfectly represent the
Comic favoring side of the argument while we talked about what we value about the film
from uh the films
Specifically the film point of view and I think that the sides have been represented not necessarily a conclusion has been reached
I I think that one could say there was a conclusion that the film isn't necessarily badly written
It's just not spider-man and then there's a discussion to be had about the semantic
value of what makes spider-man spider-man, I don't know
Either way, hopefully it clears some stuff up and that people got something of what they enjoyed
Out of it. I don't know what they were expecting. Well, there'll be more spider-man discussion next
episode
We're talking about far from home finally and uh, we'll explore its strengths and weaknesses while finally covering high top
I'm actually looking forward to you seeing that rags. It'll probably explode your brain. You're gonna love it
Hat talk
um
But yes, uh, thank you for the donations at the wonderful bebs
Other than that, is there anything uh, you you guys wanted to want to say?
Talk about anything. I don't know
gosh, um
No, I think i'm I think i'm all
Uh out worded right now because I I need to eat because I haven't eaten yet. I had some chips earlier. That's about it
I'm finishing up
Huh?
Massive geodes large geodes
Bring on
Shweline from your server. That is the uh new super chat. That's someone who's regularly arguing in the discord against
um homecoming
uh, we brought on two of what a very representative I don't know takes on on
They were like highly requested and both very much representative audiences that don't like homecoming as nerdrodick said his his chat and jeffs
are usually filled with people who are
Very much don't like it. So I figured that they were
Some of the stronger takes
On against it and it's not to say that we'll never talk about homecoming again, but i'm hoping this has sort of
Satisfied some people to some degree. I don't know
um either way just before I go, I guess i'll post that uh
That poll again if you're interested in having a look at it
and then maybe if I can figure out how to get the old one we'll have a comparison but um
Yeah, thanks for watching everybody
Uh, why are you guys talking about spider-man? Crawl is out. The fuck is crawl
Either way, that's the end of the stream. Goodbye everybody
Oh jade say bye
