I suppose if we you know counter well
I give you the illusion of choice cuz I was gonna hit go live regardless of what you said
Does that make me a bad person? I don't think so. That's my opinion
On skilled in psychology, you can't you can't say anything if I say it's my opinion
Of course, that's like the ultimate shield I was saying the two rags I think yesterday
There's a couple people disagreeing with Jay from Reza media and in the in the comments
And then you see people being like hey his opinion
like okay
Just blatantly forgot certain scenes existed. Yeah
Which definitely frustrated people I'm trying to think of like probably the most blade
He says at one point feels weird to refer to Todd Phillips as a filmmaker
It's like there's a real film maker. Oh, right. Sorry. It's his real filmmakers like Wow dick
That's pretty that's pretty pathetic in the face of obvious filmmaking skill of this caliber, but never mind
He made other movies Jay didn't like so. Oh
Well, well, I mean I don't really go for those kind of dumb comedy, you know, yeah
I don't think many people do why that's fair
there are
You know, I'm not even gonna say that that bad like because I remember laughing hangover
But when I found out there was two morals like why how?
Yeah, just milk it for all it's worth I guess that's kind of what it came down to thank goodness. They don't do that anymore, huh?
Yeah, it's great nowadays
Now we get the lights like the predator and terminate a dark fate which by the way
I think we needed it. You could tell the series needed it
They needed a sequel to the second one in the sixth film. I think that we needed that it makes a lot of sense
Yeah, like the the third major attempt to like start a new trilogy
You guys um, great
I got a trailer for it when I went to see Rambo and it was like it had Linda Hamilton was like
Addressing the audience from in the trailer and she was like this is a direct sequel to Terminator 2. I was like
Okay
Just so no one's confused
This is the thing. She's they mark together like please please we're not the crappy ones like but you're gonna be crappy, too
Yeah
It was it just did they slow down her voice or something for the trailer where she's talking about like the things that she's done
Like stopping judgment day or something, but honestly, she sounded like she was high or drunk or something
It's like we stopped
Judgment day, I guess you would know you can detect that shit
I was like raising a glass to her in the cinema. I love how
Do you love how she like takes credit for stopping judgment day and ignores what John did what the tea?
Well, the Arnie did water what miles Dyson did?
Yeah, it's like they all sacrificed their lives to do all this
Yeah, I stopped judgment day
There's no one left alive to come to two of them have themselves to save the world and she's like hmm
I kind of did most of it
Well, they are male and that disqualifies them from heroism in this 21st century
obviously
Obviously having a penis disqualifies you from heroism. So you don't count anymore
Yeah, cuz you need to spell a hero with her
Go ahead I was watching the trailer and I didn't know it was for terminator six or whatever it is
And when I saw her I thought my god Klaus Kinski isn't looking very good
I was like honest to God. I was like is that Klaus Kinski? What the fuck is that? I didn't even realize it was her
Yeah, I'm waiting for the trailer that as we need a him row and then it knocks out
Or captain Marvel too, we don't need a her zero
Is everyone gonna go see that it's gonna be so good
No, it's gonna be great review fodder. I'm confused
I was never gonna be jumping for joy at the idea of a captain model to the fuck
I'm more excited about birds of prey to be honest watching the trailer just before Joker
I just thought wow, this this movie completely measures up. Well, did you see Ewan McGregor's comments about the movie?
Yeah, it's gonna teach us a lesson about
Misogyny that was disappointing. I was like, oh
Okay
Really growing there with this movie. Yeah
Used to be I wanted to see a movie for fun
I didn't necessarily want to attend a class on civics and misogyny, but oh well, I'm glad they're looking out for my education
I mean, he's a woman
I mean my hope for this one is that
Margot Robbie decides like which part of America her characters meant to be from and sticks with it because
Suicide squad she was in like three different accents. She gets to get away with
crazy
That works that should be crazy, so, um, I suppose that we should we shouldn't wasting time I
Did I change the tile to a P word, okay, everyone was like, oh
It's a it's a non P word and as a P word that better. I hope everyone's happy. We have a Halloween themed you fappy see and
So
All right. Yeah, I guess well, I mean we I've already I've already stated that I feel like it should always be a P word
I feel like it's important that e f a P
does align with a P word I
I've made my thoughts clear. All right. I don't have much more to say outside of Halloween and Christmas. What are the festive?
festive ones can we have
Kwanzaa all right Kwanzaa. I'll just write that down any others Thanksgiving
I
Don't I don't know all the way through April we'll do Easter efap every frame of
Um St. Patrick's Day every what? Oh, yeah, we'll just make the whole month after
bonfire night
New years
These are all ones the last like one what efap though. We need more the we pretty much exhausted it with Halloween Christmas
I should have known it's fine
We're talking about dates
But the first prisoners to arrive at Auschwitz was on the 20th of May so I don't know if you want to do anything with
That it's
Yeah, if you want to be fat for that
So the hilarity that would ensue do you like the whole by the way, the fact that says every frame of psycho and we're covering
cinema Roberto today, so that actually makes a lot of sense because of
Before he is a genocidal maniac who is just barely held in place by societal
laws
Essentially if if we lived in an end cap society, then he would be one of these roaming warlords
Mad max villain who's like super fat and ugly and wears a mask over his face
Maybe going village to village is ball using those who he finds worthy of a new world order
Humongous Bob
I'd watch the film. I just hope he wouldn't win in the end. That's all
Yeah, we got broke last episode and I feel like this is really important rags was asking whether a vampire could like sustain itself from
Different forms of blood including but not limited to you know
Just just all kinds of excess blood fluid that can come from from a human body and it was clarified
It has to be like fresh blood rags dead blood
Like period blood or something or the nosebleed
I imagine sure but I I think can't as far as I'm aware
I think in vampire the masquerade a vampire could drink like blood packs and it would be like really shitty would taste bad
But it would be technically nourishment for them where they get them from like a fridge or blood path from them from Auschwitz
Like what I mean is like how is it stored because you know
Well your refrigerator refrigerators. Yeah, they have refrigerators alive
It's got like it's the rule of thumb not be like if you can put it into a human and it would sustain them
Then you could probably have a vampire feed on it
Yeah
That seems to be right and they could like jazz it up if they wanted to add some flavor to it
They could put some insulin in there or maybe some
Real spinal fluid, you know some bone dust
Oh marrow, maybe
Maybe just kind of stir it around
Right now which is brew. I don't know if you can't write over blood. I don't know how you said taint. I did
You said taint rhino. I did
taint imagine
Taint must be
Jesus Christ. There's nothing stopping you from finding out right rags. You can go. It's like a horse. That's that's a big-ass taint
There's a lot of distance. Yeah, think of all the different ways. You could cook that is a midgets
Cock like normal sized or is it like midget sized?
You have a special brain
And we have to go to chat for the answers of that one because nobody's really stepping up to figure it out
I guess there was there was a little person in
Or as or as wolf would say
What do you say? What do you call a little devil devil person?
Devil person right in Joker. There was a smallman. So I'm
Was Peter Dinklage involved in the fappening by any chance and we can get some pictures of him
I've never thought to look to my credit
One advantage
in my pornography spare time I
Think it's one advantage of being a midget is that if you were suicidal you wouldn't have to go up quite as high to kill
Yourself, you know go up quite a sudden. Do you mean like if you jumped off a building?
Yeah, if you wanted to jump off a building you wouldn't you wouldn't have to go up quite as high because you're like smaller
It's a very narrow difference
There are more places available
Only slightly I think gravity would still act upon your body. Yes. Wait, yeah
Well, yeah, but I didn't ball in a feather, you know, but you would be smart. Well that only applies in a vacuum
Instead of vacuum cleaner
Like a hoover you're saying you kill himself in a hoover he's not that tiny
No, he could fit inside of a hoover bag
I don't think just he could get dusted how big is this hoover bag?
Is he the atom? It's a normal sized one. These are smallman
Talking we talking like one foot
Like one foot people two foot people shit, I think no, I mean surely or something no me no, okay leprechaun
Admittedly, I haven't seen a vacuum with like a bag attached to it for a long time
So maybe it was because I was smaller back then that the bag seemed larger
That's probably it
So, yeah
Fucking Auschwitz in there
Yeah, this is this is mainly I guess only gonna work for people who actually know Patrick Willems as well as me and Rags do
But this is his take on Joker and I thought it was like it's pretty interesting
But he's got videos you and I have stars where yeah, I know to know stuffs like wow. All right
That's like a five out of ten like cheese
but um
Shit
He's got a series of videos where he does like X-men if it was directed by Paul
Ws. Anderson or
Sorry, whoever else the West Anderson, I think he's got a couple of them and he like
He just says Joker is like if someone made one of his YouTube videos into a feature-length vision
That was just like wow
That is a baffling view
Is it even got
1,746 likes fuck this shit. I mean he's an idiot
Well, I mean, I don't I don't even get what he's trying to say
Is it the idea that the film is like a what-if scenario like give Joker to and then X director, but?
Is this a compliment or a criticism
And I don't even get a guy
I think it's basically a guy who didn't understand what he was seeing and just had to say something and type something real fast
And called it make down the middle. That's basically
Yeah, I don't think yeah, I don't think he knew what the hell to say
Oh, yeah, is this the kind of thing you can do when you're like a well-known reviewer?
You just not even see the movie just make a really big statement
Yes, it would be funny like I haven't actually seen it I just
Okay
He's like you guys follow me but Williams you'll fucking clap at anything
really much
Like it legit doesn't matter what I say
Like he's just trying to look smart. I know who Werner Herzog is. Oh look at me. It's like
I don't know
And I'd like to just analyze this very quickly. It's like what if Werner Herzog directed Ant-Man?
Well Joker didn't have Ant-Man in so that's not a particularly apt description. What if the show Gotham was a teen drama?
Well, there was no teens in this or romance
Involving team so that's off. What if there was a gritty Tintin reboot again?
Where's Tintin fail fail fail on every detail? Good job
you know is it meant to be like it's
tonally and
Directorially completely different from what he expected and so it feels like it's a director who's not properly matched up with the project
Yeah, I think that's a good idea. I think he's like giving it to not stars does
I mean he thinks that his ideas are bad from YouTube although they're just jokes
You know, I mean he's like he's bracing this is a bad also kind of shilling his
He's also killing his channel
I have a YouTube channel it comes across like he's a little bit ups up his own ass
Just a little bit, but you know
Yeah, so I feel like I
Don't because I'm looking around at like what we can do first and last and considering I don't have everybody here forever
We should probably do what everybody wants to see as the main event, but we'll do it second
But we'll probably start with looking into videos already because I don't want to and delay the shit out of people, you know
You're all gonna be upset if you all leave and then mean rags cover the the cool interesting stuff and one of that so
Here is a little interesting. Yeah, the cool and it's like why we cover the boring stuff first. It's always boring stuff
I'd like to point out how annoying is whenever you're looking at porn and
It says uncut in the title because you don't know if they're referring to whether or not this porn video was part of a larger
Film or if he's hasn't been circumcised
And I feel like those are two very very different things
Those those would be the deciding factors on whether or not I watch the videos
I'm fine with either right totally fine with either, but I want to know is there more to this story
There's a more setup. Do they go on? Did she get pregnant? Yeah
Characterization a lot of the scenes don't really match up if you don't know about that ahead of time
Like a lot of it can go really fucky. So I understand completely
To be honest, I really want to see the Captain Marvel porno that they've made
I really tempted to do a drinker's review of that and and
Funny if the plot they'd more says
I think I've heard it does actually you can have different actors and you could you could have the same scroll quote-unquote
But he would just be portraying or portrayed as different male, you know, like like porn stars
I get but it would be like the same character in universe. Oh
That means you hot very heavy quotes on in universe
You're this specifically the Captain Marvel porno universe
Sure, the Marvel cinematic the Marvel circumcised universe
That would be like the first ever one-man gangbang, you know because the scroll kind of have different guys
It's pretty obvious
Oh, yeah, I just wanted to say so is everybody into the watch together. We've got
Scrawl scroll would be able to change the size of their dicks, right? Yes
They just gotta find somebody with big dick to copy right they can't just invent it
So, I mean like I'm tell Adam gives us no excuse for not being beautiful
Wow, I guess we'd have to it would answer our question previously if the scroll transformed into Peter Dinklage then we would know
It would answer the question too. This could be the best film ever just saying
Mm-hmm. Um
Yeah, doom cocky you into the the wash together. I am indeed. Excellent. That should be everybody just anyone
Let me know if there's desync issues or
Other issues, but yeah, this is entitled why this Joker is a real loser
This is from I guess the TYT network or it's called TYT investigates
That's only three minutes will be that painful. We investigated the joke
Okay, I see it now. Yeah, there's a video up for everybody. Yep. Yeah exciting Arthur
Does it help to have someone to talk to?
Joker has a problem with black women
Baby cuz I can't
It's
He could be saying why does like the character Joker have a problem with black women or why does the film have a problem with
Black women and they're both wrong. Yeah, they both they both be wrong
What a great start, yeah
Supported whatsoever. I mean his
Imaginary girlfriend in the movie is a black woman and this woman is one of the few people in the movie that tries to help him
So yeah wrong on both counts two swings two strikes. Oh, well, let's see if we can get that food
What would the next 10 seconds?
Joker has a problem with black women a black woman
He wants a black woman who has the nerve to tell a strange man to leave her son alone
I'm not getting anything coming up on the video here in the wash together. Oh, don't worry. There's nothing going on in the video
It's the most vapid nonsense. Yeah, try rejoining see if that's also yeah, give it a reload and we'll see if it kicks in
Oh
Yeah, I've put spoilers in the title for this stream
But yeah, if anybody hasn't seen Joker and wants to I would recommend saving the stream for later because I don't know
Well, that's yeah, if you're a fan of black women the stream is still up. So
They could watch it now
And they'll come back and the stream is still going
It's true actually
Is it working or
No
See, it's not it's not showing me in the watch together with anyone else
It's like I'm just kind of in a separate like room. I see you here
What are your em xpu?
That's probably me good question. Yeah, so I see you right here. I see you're all five of us
Oh, you see five people here. I see one two three. I see four. There's a fifth name, but it's not green
Oh, yeah, I don't know. Do you want me to I could just remake the room. See if that doesn't yeah
We could do that in xpu's here vixx quiz here sure is here, but huge from is not here
Yeah, I mean German why is my watch together in German? It's so weird
So get very like concerned like Germany infecting my computer
I
Have we have cyclone B inside of you Germans have bought to watch together
All right, so there's a new one everyone pour in hopefully I got three on my screen so far
funny pandas
Brackets rack excellent. Excellent content
That Panda shit has been there
I have
Joy of mr. Doom. I see four now drinker you in
Well, I clicked on the link again same deal give me a second. I'm gonna try and
I'm gonna open up the different browser
Piss me off, man
Ecology and alcohol they just don't go together man. I do not
It's weird cuz when we've done watch together before I have opened it in Chrome and it seems
I can see you guys. So yeah, I see the pandas. So it's all gone. You see pandas. Okay
All right
Is the new video up for everybody seen a city?
Why is a real loser? Yeah. All right. Good. Let's pretend like we're right at the beginning again
Does it help you have someone to talk to?
Joker has a problem with black women black woman
He wants a black woman who has the nerve to tell a strange man to leave her
What about the three white men who beat the shit out of it?
And also
Why does he have a problem with black women if he likes one of them? It's like, huh?
Yeah, he likes one of them. One of them was he objectifies her and one of them rightly said don't talk to my kid
I don't understand what the problem is. Yeah
qualify your statement say
Son alone and not one but two black women who appear to be social workers
Or doctors, but either way just don't get it. This is the last time no one gets it helping him
What the fuck? Yeah, she was getting him meds
I don't say yeah, like she gave him more help than pretty much anybody in the film
No one cares about you arthur except me and
Something like that, right?
She even says at one point like they don't care
They don't give a shit about you and they don't give a shit about me either like the enemy isn't her
It's the system that just kind of abandons people. It's the society, man
I might have suggested that you got the the surface read, but he's also invented the surface read. So just he's just
It's in his own world
This is this is tyt
They see someone and they're instantly like oh black female. They aren't like human being person character. There's like boom
This isn't just tyt as tyt investigates. Yeah
Yeah, this guy has got an agenda and he's going to try and find evidence to support his agenda his preconceived notion coming in
It's quite clear. I mean he's got a he's buying into the narrative that joker is somehow responsible now for
Dividing race and in riots and I think in the earthquakes that happen in the next six months
Does he kill any black people in the film? It's all white people. No, well, yeah
I mean joker is very progressive. He's a white guy who breaks into a black person's apartment
So I don't I mean that's that's something true. Don't laugh at that
And don't forget the teenagers definitely not caucasian
That's how he classifies them definitely not definitely not they need to be caucasian if you're going to show crime
In a movie and it needs to be a caucasian doing it because non-caucasians
Definitely don't commit crimes. I I bet you
99 of audiences didn't even notice their ethnicity. They were just a bunch of street punks that were messing with them
No, that's what I saw all they were in this in the story. We all watched it. We all thought they had not caucasian
Definitely not. Yeah, that's the first thing I saw. Yeah, exactly
I think it's a more evidence of the casual racism of reality
I mean
They're a bunch of kids kids do this. Exactly tins out kids are in all colors. Isn't that crazy, right?
And in an urban environment like this, I mean, it's a melting pot. They're they're all different, uh, you know races and
Uh, they're a street gang. And if you're gonna like happens be like, oh joke is trying to send a message
I'd be like seems like the message is everybody could be a shit
Yep, exactly
Walt Joaquin Phoenix's character arthur fleck for no reason you see arthur is a victim
Wait, did he say they attacked him for no reason?
As if there's supposed to be a reason why a bunch of kids mess with a guy
Yeah, they do rob him afterwards, but I don't know if that was their main goal
I think it was just to be assholes to him and then after he chased him into an alley
They're like, yeah, don't take it. Yeah. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, he's weak. Take his one
He's a white guy telling women to smile more or better yet. He tells him
Wait
Let's let's roll that back. You see arthur is a victim. He's the straight white guy telling women to smile more
Everyone smile more
Should smile more it's his mantra. It's from his mom. That's his thing
When does he directly tell any person that they have to smile more? Like that's just his philosophy
You know, he's just people to do it
He just wants people to smile more and people includes all people which would include including
Women including black women rags
I think people should smile more and that includes women
So the only thing he could have said there that was acceptable is I think white men should smile more
More
Because he has that little dream sequence near the beginning with with murray and he's like
My mom always says that I should smile but whatever like he says about himself a carbon
Is there is there a time where he says everyone should smile more?
No, I think he says he's here to bring happiness into the world or something
My mama always told me that my purpose was to spread joy and happiness and all that stuff
Which I guess includes smiling and people are happy and joyful. They normally smile
Let's quit. He's I don't know. They haven't experienced happiness before
Space aliens who've crash landed on this planet. They don't understand how people work
They have a checklist going in they're like who won't race with the criminals if black that is racist if they're white
Uh still racist because they were casting black people
No racist because how dare you?
Yeah, if it's a black person then you're going out of your way to portray black people's criminals
If the white person is committing crime, then they're of course is the white guy else
You can't win we didn't say this on on efap right rags the the four scenarios before
I don't think we did talk about it on efap. So this is this is a fun thing we were thinking about
I think we were doing a drunk stream on metals metal stream, but um
You get a guy attacks a guy like in an alleyway. He robs him. All right, so first scenario
They're both white. Well, that's racist because it's not diverse. You didn't cast a black person
Okay, second scenario white guy attacking black guy
Well, that's just perpetuating that black people are below white people and that they deserve this kind of punishment or something
So, okay. Okay, that's racist. We'll throw that out black person attacking white person
Well, that's racist because you're portraying the black guy as a criminal. What the fuck?
Okay, fine black person hitting black person. Well that supports black on black crime, which is even more written. You're like, okay, so
What gray blobs gray blobs for everybody
Everybody it's amazing the kind of thoughts you're capable of when you're perpetually offended by everything
I was going to say how do they watch movies anymore?
It's impossible
And you know in these days in movies when you preach about equality and universal brotherhood, that's clearly just racist sarcasm
Yes, obviously, that's what it is. It's sarcasm. It's not heartfelt and it's to be condemned
Tell me man one day the gray blob movie will come out and there's these horrible gray blobs that attack people with gray blob sticks
They don't say anything. They just go
You have to guess what it tries to represent
Mahler if we get to that point will people finally review the movie for what it is and say I didn't understand anything
They live in gray blob wheels
It would be interesting to see how they react to it because you'd be like you have to go entirely on their characters because there's no
elements to them that
I think they would be mad because like women of color weren't getting portrayed or didn't get a chance to portray the gray blobs
So yeah, they would be mad about yeah, they'd be like who the voice actors. Let's look at the imdb. No, there's one
It was all generated by computer
Patrick williams will like make a review
What if steven spielberg made little women it's going to be something like that one out of five stars
What if quinton tarantino made stewart little
The question we all want answered
What a
Straight white guy telling women to smile more or better yet to laugh at his jokes
You have to wonder whether does he tell anybody to laugh at his jokes?
He wants people to laugh at his jokes, but I don't think he tells them laugh at my jokes
Yeah, there's no scene like that
He says to his mom he wants to be a comedian
Someone and say laugh
He tells him. Yeah, he doesn't do that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He tells the mom. She wants to be a comedian
She's like don't you have to be funny and he's like hmm
Yeah
That's his mother who says that when she's in the tub yeah, yeah
Oh, no
That's the moralizing but yeah, I was gonna say he doesn't tell anyone laugh at my jokes. Damn it
I imagine my my mom in the tub has never told me that i'm
Yeah, no, same
I gotta
You have to wonder whether the movie is satirizing white dude victims all over the country the incels who can't get anyone to love them
Except the joker is also the hero of a working class uprising
What what do you mean clown masks you guess they're clown masks. You don't have to guess
No, it's very they're very explicitly clown. It could be lion masks. They could be spiderman masks. It's all subjective
It's all subjective. Yeah, also, I don't I never got the incel thing about this. So
I don't know how they're gonna dive into it
But I just I just just because the fact is a girl didn't turn out to be real. Is that what they're basing it on?
I think it's just because they know that incels the new thing that you could just shit all over
All right
I mean they this incel thing this incel motif came about before the film had even aired
so I mean they were just pulling this out of their ass and
It just stuck because it's a convenient talking point for people who wanted to attack and dismiss the film
But when is there ever really a sexual element to any of what he does?
You know, he kind of fantasizes about having someone in his life who who cares about him. Yeah, it's not he just wants human contact
It's not it's not something as specific as that. I don't know the fact that they kiss in his fantasy
That's as far as it goes. It's it seems to be she's looking out for him when he's in the hospital
She's like just staying with him in his day to day like he's clearly fantasizing just about
Just a connection that yep. Yeah, he imagines her at the comedy club when he's given his performance
It's like oh someone who appreciates what i'm doing
It's actually pretty wholesome to be honest with you when you think about it
Yeah, and he has a similar fantasy with with um murray
You know about him being invited on stage and it's like oh, I wish I had a son like you
You know and he just wants someone to like be proud of him and like him. I guess
Yeah, he just wants to be appreciated. Why does it show him at 142? It says i'm at one minute 42 seconds
Yeah
Is everything moving for everyone? Yeah. Yeah, it's like it's moving for anyone to love them
There we go, there we go. I'll try hopefully that resets everybody
but in the movies
in the scenes where he
Hallucinates about his the the weird, you know the black lady down the i was about to say the street down the hall
Um, he it's always in scenarios that with one exception. It's in scenarios that he's in
She's just a detail to help him cope
Right for a support that he doesn't have to get so it
The sexual element isn't really explored in the film. Maybe there is one. I don't know
but it's the only thing I can think of is the fact that
The mum had the sexual relationship with thomas wayne allegedly
um
So I don't I don't know. This is the thing. That's like the closest we get was going to do with him. Really? He's just the
The adopted son
Yeah, he sees thomas wayne. It's like an opportunity to connect with someone, you know
When he when he corners him and he's like, you know dad, it's me and again
He wants someone to to take him in and care about him. He wants a father figure clearly
I mean he fantasizes about the talk show host being uh, you know
Oh, I wish you were my son and then thomas wayne is his dad
Uh, I mean that's that's kind of a key to my interpretation of the film, but I guess we'll get into that later
Um
Do you remember answering the question of who will be the most inconsistent character in styles episode nine doom cock?
I can't remember if I asked you or not
Who will be the most inconsistent?
Character in episode nine. Who do you think will fuck up the most basically?
Oh, oh
um
Jesus I don't know. I think the whole thing is going to be so screwed and so
retrofitted and insultingly pandering that I mean
Take your pick man. Well, this is the thing. Uh, we the picks are all over the place. We've got we've got clear
Like favorites going right now. And so we just we're just curious to ask everybody who comes on and I think
I I guess it would be han solo because you know
He'll come back as a force ghost even though he had fuck all to do with the force. So, you know
That'll be it
Uh, you'd be the first person to vote for him, but I think there's a good chance
Because you know allegedly it's going to end with ray looking out on the twin sunsets of tattooing
And the three force ghosts leah luke and han standing there looking at her looking at the sunset
She's so much more dazzling than the sunset
And uh that han has fuck all to do with the force
Yeah, I I would say han. That's all right. That's my i'll put you on for han solo
And yeah, we're gonna the the alleged leaks. We're gonna read them out for a new tab eventually
I just gotta line it up with just the right guess the right time and stuff
But they sound horrific from the small things i've heard
They sound horrific
I'm almost gonna feel bad when the movie eventually comes out and we don't have all these ridiculous like speculations to go on
It's like the gift that keeps giving we will officially be post episode nine. Well the pre-episode nine time was so much fun
It'll be like in-game all over again. Yep
All right, sort of jokes
You have to wonder whether the movie is satirizing white dude victims all over the country the incels who can't get anyone to love them
Except the joker is also the hero
Also, why is it satirizing white dudes?
And
I I don't know. What am I hearing? Yeah, someone's still got it playing. Yeah, I I still have it going
I have to reload I think
Yeah, but like this whole yeah, like isn't it just a universal thing?
Like he's just he's a symbol of every person who's been ignored and and forgotten and marginalized
to white or male or incel
These things are kind of arbitrary compared to it's the society aspect the
Lack of any connection again going over the whole
The amount of people he wants a hug
Is so true. Yeah
That's just all he wants man. Just a hug
Murray give me the end
Yeah
like in the ending
that's like
That is so tragic the ending
Finally people were acknowledging him. That's why he finally smiled. All we had to do is execute robert deniro
This film has a bad message
This film encourages violence against robert deniro
You have to wonder whether the movie is satirizing white dude victims all over the country the incels who can't get anyone to love them
Except that joker is also the hero of a working class uprising
Occupy gotham in clown masks, I guess and even says explicitly at one point that he's not political
But
All right. So one those people are definitely not portrayed as the good guys either
um, you know the clown too
he can
Remain apolitical or do things for non-political reasons and people can still pull
Political messages from what he does and use that for their own political ends
Well, it's not part of the message of the film here
Like the way people will latch on to a person and see them as a symbol and use it for their own
Ends like the warfare around their own beliefs. Um, and the actual person behind it is forgotten
They did that with arthur and thomas
Yeah, yeah. Yep. This is this is a
Throwback to the kind of movies in the 70s where they weren't trying to moralize at all
I mean essentially they're trying to present a situation that is sufficient in and of itself and uh,
Not cast anyone as a hero or a villain. It's simply
Uh the complexity of life the grayness of these kinds of situations and that's one of the another reason why I said
It really is something of an homage to scorsese films like raging bull
Taxi driver and king of comedy
well, I took it as being um, just as critical as of the these kind of
Working class people who do her uprising?
Um and just portrays them basically as like violent thugs who are just using this as an excuse to to burn the city down
You know, they they claim that they're doing this for some kind of political goal, you know, like um showing the rich people
You know who's really in charge or whatever
But really it's just an excuse for mindless destruction
And I think is that not meant to be like kind of a commentary on real life groups that we've got who do that kind of thing?
I don't think so. I I don't know. I mean, I I really just saw it as a as a film that is depicting a certain situation
obviously, there's always always been uh
resentment against the rich
So I don't I mean really in this it's more the fact that there's a pressure cooker in the city and that you know
funds for you know civic, uh, you know programs like mental health and and
You know trash collection and things like that. I mean the the quality of their lives are being diminished
And uh, I mean they've already talked about the heat. They've talked about the trash. They've talked about the giant rap
City
Yeah, and I and I think it's just that that you know, finally, uh, you know, they kind of rally on this
Although I don't really think it happens. I think it's all in in
Arthur's mind did you guys um pick up when he was
traveling
Like back before from work and stuff
He's on that bus and the train where they just like run down
They're packed with all kinds of different people and there's graffiti on the windows and then when he goes to see the wanes
The train he goes into is like really slick and clean. There's all businessmen basically with suits and they're all weary looking at newspapers that
Basically just say like this civil unrest kill the rich potentially all this other stuff. It's just like a
What you couldn't be further away in terms of a class divide at that point in this film
I mean the whole theater sequence and that bathroom and how nice it is and yeah, how out of place he seems and looks
Like outside it's loud and raucous and there's protesters and everything and then the inside it's nice and quiet
And there are people standing around politely and everything's clean and orderly
Why that's like life. I mean that's that's reality much like life. I have loud violent protesters outside
My point is that they're not trying to make any kind of I don't think overt
Propagandistic kind of shit like in modern movies
I think that they're depicting a situation that is a part fantasy in Arthur's brain and part reality
Because that is reality. I mean, you know, there are nice trains and there are shitty trains and it depends on what part of town
You're in. Yeah, I certainly don't I definitely don't think it's it portrays either side is being morally right or justified really. Yeah
What people are just kind of they're motivated
To commit to their decisions for sure
And it's I just think it gets summed up by
The the whole the way they see each other Thomas Wayne's comments about
clowns as a whole like they don't
What does he say something like like we've earned the positions wearied while they're they're like a bunch of clowns
And then the other side of it is like the rich feed on the on the
Well, the rest the 99 is sort of thing and it's just like they hate each other. There's no communication
They just fucking hate each other. It's like too rare, man
There's no conversation. This just
battling basically
Um, anyway back to this wonderful video
Yeah, one point that he's not political
But joker the movie is very political and that's what makes it a real mess literally
In fact, the first makes it a real mess literally literally. Yeah, I was about to be like, uh
Um
Like can't can it be a literal mess? I mean we already what else would he be?
It's a weird weird way to structure that but fine. I'll let i'm gonna let him go
First thing you learn is there's a garbage strike in Gotham City
The city is literally filthy because sanitation workers have had the nerve to organize to well
We don't hold up. I'll actually hold up
We don't we don't know the state of why they're doing it as far as I know
No, like we don't know if they're justified in the strike. We don't know if they're being greedy
We don't know if the union's trying to go overboard. We we don't know exactly. We don't know if it's justified or not
Yeah, all of this is done just as a setup for for
Yeah, it shows the act of freedom of the people right now
Yeah, they just they want a decaying city where people are giving up and that's enough to set up the powder keg
That's going to get ignited later on. I mean, I know why they say it
It's primarily a story about a character and these idiots that are criticizing it with all this political subtext
They're not used to films about characters. They want to interject
Inject, uh, you know politics and sjw, uh, you know critiques on everything
So that's what they're trying to do about this
But this is essentially a character study about a disturbed man
And all of these issues are are ancillary to that character study. That's my opinion
I just think it's absurd. He says, you know, this movie is very political
But then he does nothing to explain why he thinks that's the case
Now I would I would argue that it's not political in the slightest. It's a movie about how people
use
Use just everyday problems or people's um, you know actions as an excuse to justify their politics
But there's no political actual statements made by this movie at all
It criticizes everyone
Yeah, well that's that's how those anti-hero 70s films were
I mean they they you know, like deniro in in taxi driver is travis bickel a hero or a villain
Well shit, there's no easy answer again like life
Often this is tyt and tyt is very very critical of capitalism
They're very pro socialist very pro a lot of communist stuff very pro union
So it makes no shocker to me at all that they without a second doubt without any information supporting it say. Oh, yeah
Union's good
No matter what no matter what the reason is if the union is doing it it is good and they're justified in doing it
And like no unions can fuck up are they yeah
People protesting and rioting and they're like yes the proletariat rising up against their capitalist overlords. Perfect
America deserved 9 11
right
I didn't invite hasanabi to this stream
Hasanabi also did this guy?
He saw hasan the hun. Oh, well he's called out on twitch. I think hasanabi. Yeah. Oh, I don't even didn't even know
Oh quote in a man you don't even know
Next you'll quote beginning or something
Okay, I can't believe that also people are putting political messages when the movie explicitly states that the joker is not political
I I don't understand and it's like
Well these people everything is political and they just want to score points. They're propagandists. They're not artists
I was gonna say that the details don't actually matter the dialogue doesn't matter
It's literally just the broadest strokes of of what you could say might have happened on screen. They're just like, oh, this is it
Yeah, the movie clearly goes out of its way
People that the movie criticizes people. Yes
Take something that's not political and try to apply a prediction which is why it's not a degree of genius that I love. Yeah
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's brilliant in that regard
Yeah, how can I manipulate this event to turn it into a political movement that I personally approve of and I actually think yeah
Those ones exist
But there's also the people who are like convinced joker did it for x reason and i'm sure they genuinely believe it
Like the same for real life people who see an event they're like they did it for that reason i'm sure of it
You're like, okay
Even if even if the person themselves said no, I didn't they go. No, i'm sure you did
It's like all right then
Well, there are people in the world who are incapable of thinking that's just the way it is
I'm gonna lightly show my channel and say that I talked about that a bit in the video
I did about joker. You did indeed also your microphone is making weird noises. Oh, it's doing this thing again
I'll leave until yeah
I thank god he's gone
Let's talk about it. No, let's go weird fit. Oh, hey, man
What's up glad you're back
I'm glad you got back in time to watch the rest of this video with us
Director todd phillips is being praised for making a realistic movie and even said he wanted to make a real movie disguised as a comic book movie
But any real person inspired to wield violence by this real loser is themselves a real loser
Who's been inspired by?
There's a lot to unpack with what he just said
Yeah, I was about to say we need to go back and listen to that listen to that again because that was that was an interesting one
Yep, so you're like is he preemptively trying to criticize people?
He's criticizing todd phillips for causing someone to commit violence that hasn't happened yet. He's like right. Let's just let's do it again
That he wanted to make a real movie disguised as a comic book movie
But any real person inspired to wield violence by this real loser is themselves a real loser
Who can't tell that the movie itself?
Doesn't know what the hell arthur fleck is other than the movie's supreme confidence that he this poor white male victim
Has something important to say about modern times
Okay. Wow. Yeah, that's way to be good
That's that's dense as a neutron star there. All right
The student was watching a different movie
Wow, can you imagine his face when he wrote that sentence so smugly?
I was going to get like a transcript of that so he could break it apart
It was every other word in that in that whole string of dialogue was white white white white white
He just I think he just doesn't like white people. I think honestly, that's it
Yeah, if you can't write fetch us a transcript we'll just just what does anyone want to say while he's doing that
He's so smug when he says it like oh, I made a good point. I made a good I made a good like uh nailed it
Yeah, it was implied that it would be it would be violence caused for sure by tod phillips, but not even
Like he's trying to say the film wouldn't have done it on purpose because the film is nonsensical
But it will inspire people to violence. It's like
My film doesn't even know what it is, but that'll happen
Yeah, what is this nonsense about like the film has no idea what arthur fleck is?
No, the the movie knows very very clearly what he is
exactly
The the entire movie is structured around what he is. That's what other people interpret him as
Yeah, I think people are confused because they're trying to put that political message on arthur when there's nothing
So they're confused like huh. He's not fitting in the box
They're like go in the box. He's like i'm not going to the box. They're like go in the box
Yeah, they're also with something
They're terribly diluted because uh quite frankly and objectively speaking as somebody dealing in reality
Uh, there is not a whole lot of violence actually in this movie
There are a few very violent scenes, but i've seen many many many other movies with extreme amounts of violence
And they didn't inspire
You know real life violence. I don't know why this way except that it's convenient for their narrative
I'd be curious to see where the violence inspiration part comes in
Beyond the fact that there's violent moments because it's going more than that, right because yeah
This film's pretty low on the scale of violent scenes
It's got a few it's got a few. I mean one of them is extreme
Well, two of them are extremely effective, but that's it
I'd say they're effective partly due to the fact that there's so few of them, you know
So the film is very much reserved and then you're like, oh jeez. Okay, there it is. All right
No, you're absolutely right
I mean in the same way that uh phillips is masterful in his direction because a lot of the film is actually very slow and lyrical
And deliberately paced without the kind of one second quick cut shaky cam bullshit that characterizes modern cinema
So that when you get into a sequence like on the uh, the the train
Uh where where there's the shooting and everything and the cutting becomes frenetic and the angles are very dynamic
uh kind of evoking for me freed consequence in the french connection with the
Chase with popeye dole with the shadows moving with the bars and and everything
It makes the sequence that much more interesting and effective because it's so in contrast to the rest of the film
Yeah, I completely agree. I actually really like that train sequence
I was like, how is he gonna get out of this? And then when they accidentally shoot one of the clowns, I was like, oh
You've done it now
It's like the whole fucking train's gonna tear it on you
Oh, it was good shit
I think rags is still collecting the statements. Anyone else want to say anything about that salad before he presents the full thing to us?
You know, it's the peak of like
Uh when when I watch a lot of reviews
I like to it's almost like a test of their ability as a conduit for seeing the film like how much of their bias will sneak
In you can hear like
Some words some quotes some lines here and there where you're like, oh that sounded a little bit skewed by a personal bias
That whole thing he said you just get a blast of like whoa
Who are you?
It makes me wonder if it was intentional as well just like okay if I hit them with all of this stuff simultaneously
They wouldn't really have time to digest at all and then i'm just going to move on
All right, just make it really quick so they can't question it
so i've got
Um, I just went to the thing and I just typed in the closed captions. So
um
Doc, uh, sorry director. Todd phillips is being praised for making a realistic movie
And even said he wanted to make a real movie disguised as a comic book movie
But any real person inspired to real violence by this real loser is themselves a real loser who can't tell
That the movie itself doesn't know what the hell arthur flick is
Other than the movie supreme confidence that he is this poor white male victim
Who has something important to say about modern times?
And by the way, we literally see the real movie modern times in one scene. That's how on the red nose this movie is
Wow
From his point do we have to go through this one by lane? Oh, yeah, do you want to post the rags?
I'll pop it into gedelb then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
So from this guy's perspective then this movie has a character that doesn't understand
Committing to to actions through like a sense of it. They have to come he has to do something he has to
Do it because reasons because it just doesn't know because it's you know, terrible film messy. However
Uh that will inspire people
To assume that there is a reason and they will then commit violence on behalf of it
So like it's basically the ultimate insult
This is an accidentally violent film like an idiot made it and didn't realize how bad it is
like wow
You know his premise as well that like, you know
The director was setting out to make a real movie rather than a fantastical comic book movie and that is
Somehow then going to blur the lines between a movie and reality for the people watching it and that's going to think make them think
It's okay to commit random acts of violence
Like how does he equate those things like you you must understand you can make movies which aim to be somewhat realistic?
Yeah, the the idea being you're still
Yeah, but you you still recognize that it's a movie like you're not thinking like yeah
The age-old argument it's like whose fault is it really is it the film's fault?
Or is it the unhinged person who needed a film to tell them to kill people? You're like, uh
And what's the solution to this? Does every movie have to be some like wacky?
You didn't have an alien comic book nonsense right the beginning of joker
When the scene where he's putting on the makeup you needed just an alien sitting next to him going i'm an alien
This film isn't realistic now then walks out of the room
There we go, no one's gonna get inspired to bid it out
Also arthur flick isn't the hero
Yes, well, he's clearly
He earlier described him as the hero of the people or whatever which I can there's a there's an argument for that for sure
Um, and for tyt, I think the joker is the hero of the people I guess
It's just kind of left by the way. It's something to do with arthur flick himself. It's it's the icon or the the idea of the joker
And
Owning the label of clowns. Definitely. Um, that that seems so natural to me
But they would the clown mask becomes a symbol of like in the same way that the uh, the guy forks mask, you know
Like yeah, I could see that happening
Do you not think it was interesting that they were talking about like, you know
They're organizing to do this big protest and and various places and stuff and this is set in like 1981
And you're thinking shit. How do people organize things that like that without twitter and social media?
right
Viral liars, they were flying. Yeah. Yeah
It's like everyone just call each other and just spread that way
Yeah
Well, I don't think it's realistic at all. I think all of this shit, uh, the the finale of the film certainly
I believe is in arthur's mind. I mean in the same way that he was glorified
Uh in his fantasy about going on to the talk show hosts, uh stage and being said god, I wish you were my son
I think this is finally his delusion of he's finally gotten recognized and he's a hero of movement and uh
And then he's in the asylum. I mean, I think that uh, that's part of the fantasy of this thing
I don't think it actually happens. There's too many
The unrealistic killing um murray was was true
But then anything beyond that was like his fantasy like he imagined being freed and and um, you know, so afraid by everyone
Maybe the part where he gets hit by the car
When he all of it it's real all the all up until the point where he gets hit by the ambulance
Maybe I don't think it's real
Personally, I think it's at the beginning of the film. They'd mentioned that he was released from um
An insane asylum or whatever and he was I don't believe that
Well, it might what do you mean? You don't believe that I don't believe that he'd be released from an insane asylum after
All of that. I mean no, no, no. Well, so the beginning of the film he's talking to the the therapist and she's like
She she oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the idea so one interpretation is that he never left and all of the film
Is like in his head then the other one is the uh, from the moment
You can pick different moments, I suppose
But the most common one i've seen people pick is the ambulance crash that he was taken directly to to the asylum
But in his head he you know
Got saved by the people in dance. I I think it's when he goes off his meds that the fantasy element, uh
reign supreme, but I think it was always there even with his meds
Because you get all these things that are extremely unrealistic
and uh and and
Fabulous, you know confabulations
The fact that that you know a talk show host in the early 80s is going to air
Uh footage of a man being humiliated on national television
I mean that's a very modern kind of a you know, social media kind of thing and I just don't buy it
I don't believe I don't then they have him on the show
And he's acting all weird and messed up dressed up like a clown and they say now let's go ahead and have him
And he shoots him and then all this grandiose shit happens. I don't think
Uh any of that really happens
I can believe it. Um, I think the evidence supports both ways though. That's why I I kind of like it a lot to be
Honestly, funnily enough. I know it's a great film that really lends itself to a lot of interpretation
The simple fact of the matter is there's no doubt about it. Arthur Fleck is an unreliable narrator
And we are absolutely seeing the film through his eyes
I mean the reality of the film is filtered through his eyes
We see that when we see the girlfriend who isn't there
We are seeing the film through his eyes and his perception. Therefore
Anything and everything that happens in it is up for debate and there will be no definitive answer
But uh, I feel that's that's my interpretation
But of course it could be everything from he literally is the entire time in the asylum and this is a amalgam of his memories
and fantasies and
Uh, you know what have you?
Um
I guess the
It doesn't necessarily because like it doesn't necessarily ruin the film in any way shape or form to to us to take a different point
Of where the interpretation or that the the
Imagination takes over or not. Um, I suppose if ever this film gets a sequel we'll get a lot more answers
That are definitive funnily enough because even if the director came out and said x y and z about
Joker as a film is too late for him to change anything only a sequel could potentially lock things in, you know
Someone in chat said earlier joker 2 all's well that incel
Well, when do we have a solid date for when this film is set by the way
81 I think
I was gonna say because I think I think
How long before like the first shows came out with they were all about sending in videos to laugh at you know
I mean like clip shows and stuff
You mean america's funniest home videos things like that. We we had you've been framed in britain. There's the same thing
I don't know
um
Of course, they only had like, you know
Lovable cat videos and kids saying the darndest things and crap like that. They didn't have generally humiliation and pain
That came later like in the 90s or you know
Especially when the internet, you know ascended that and it really spread like wildfire. That's fair. I think that's interesting. Um
I was gonna say as well about
King of comedy and taxi drivers influence. Um
Fans debate to this day whether or not taxi driver and king of comedies endings are in their heads or not the protagonists
Which uh, it's just like yeah joker lines up nicely with that too
And um, hey, that's a great element. I just find it fascinating as a as a film in and of itself
I mean, I don't really need it to be you know
A definitive plot. I don't think plot really matters so much in this
It's a character study and I and I take it as such and I admire the director's skill and his style
In presenting it I think is a work of art. Uh, you know, I mean
Who knows what mcgreet was was trying to say?
I mean, it's just you know, you you judge the work on its own merits and I don't need a plot
I mean that's how it's different from a comic book movie
And that's why I feel like a sequel would be disastrous because the last thing I want to do is see now
Uh, you know joker fighting batman because then it's basically batman beating up on geriatric because this guy
Well, I think phoenix is straight upset he wouldn't do another one for the people good
I know people anyway people gonna want me to mention this so I I know
Martin Scorsese has come out and said that taxi drivers ending is very much what happened like 100 what happened and you'll find
Arden taxi driver fans will refuse it. They'll be like nope. I don't care if you think that's what happened
That's in his head that ending. It's like, okay
That's the whole conversation about death of the author and how that works
The thing is there's a lot of evidence to support both interpretations. So I don't necessarily think it's a problem
It's just like yeah, just I don't have that
assumption
Anyway, I think it's a great work of art and you can interpret it as you will. Yeah
Important to say about modern times and by the way
We literally see the real movie modern times in one scene. That's how on the red nose this movie is
it's also important to note that tyt really has a habit of wanting to downplay the idea that a
Straight white male can have anything substantive to say about modern society. So it definitely is a definitely is a jab there
there's a very simple cure for whatever made up mental and emotional problems arthur fleck has
And it's caring about other people in some way other than wanting to be made up made up
I'm pretty sure
That's
Surely he misspoke is that is that the kind of opinion they have of all people suffering mental illness?
It's nice. Just me. Don't fall on your head. Don't worry about it. You get over it. Yeah, just yeah, just smile. Duh
You're sad you're depressed
Just smile you just cheer up
Yeah, duh
Hear it again because those movie is stupid
There's a very simple cure for whatever made up mental and emotional problems arthur fleck has and it's caring about other people in some way
What?
If i'm if i'm going to be super charitable which I shouldn't for tyt because they're scum
but maybe he's saying
that it's a fictional
and invented illness that he has
In the film that there's not like a real equivalent of it even though there is
I was gonna say but maybe this person thinks that it's just a fictional affliction that he has
For the character if he's referring to the laugh thing
It's called hysteria, isn't it? It's an actual thing you can get
Uncontrollable, I believe it's a real condition. Yeah Tourette's, isn't it? Yeah, there's definitely a laughter
Yeah, um
What is he saying
So, yeah his thing seems to be like well if you've got some kind of made-up issue like schizophrenia, you know
Made up like you should care more about other people and that will make you feel better like what the fuck?
Like I think I
I think this clown didn't watch the movie frankly because uh, what does arthur do the entire time?
He is always trying to care about people. He is always trying to reach out to people. He is a very
Kind-hearted character who is constantly his kindness is rebuffed and shunned and he is brutalized by the world
He reaches out to the kid on the on the subway. This is a very caring guy. He cares about his mom
He cares about the the woman down the hall. What an idiot that guy is you have no business reviewing anything
Yeah, he's a product of his environment. He keeps getting
Buffed off by everybody. It's just like yeah
And the sense of like freedom and satisfaction
He gets when he finally just straight up bid as the people who've been beating the shit out of him. He's just like, you know
Felt pretty good. Yeah, first relief we've ever actually kind of seen him with for the most part. Um, yeah, but I did do a search
um
One of the uh, while the movie never names the specific illness fleck has been diagnosed with these fits of control. Uh,
Uncontrollable laughter are based on an actual disorder called the pseudo bulbora effect or pba
The condition causes bursts of uncontrollable laughing or crying and usually manifest in people who have als ms
Neurological conditions or traumatic brain injuries according to the mayo clip. There you go
That i'm done. You know, I I think actually what this film is saying is that this is a
ugly brutal world
And arthur fleck is kind of going against that flow because he's a gentle caring person who has some problems
And I think uh, the the staircase scene is symbolic of this, you know
He's always trudging up the stairs when he's going against the prevailing cruel flow of this world
And then he dances lively down the stairs once he decides to go along with it
I mean really he's fitting into the rest of society at that point
Which ties in with i'm saying once he becomes the joker and he's he's in the full
Outfit that's yeah, that's when he dances down because it's like he's embraced what he really is
And he's going with the flow of the prevalent society because he says his life is a comedy and he's only just started looking at it
that way
Someone's really good. I just want to put that out there
It's so nice to talk about a film that's actually clever I know
What the refreshing face guys
And we've got dark fate in episode nine coming right around the corner. Oh hooray
hooray
Now i'll have uncontrollable fits of crying
Don't you say the crying thing is interesting because he he sheds a tear right at the beginning of the film don't name
When he's pulling the smile, um, yeah
Because he was trying to he was forcing himself to be happy
Yeah, no i'm saying i'm saying that that would line up with the thing as well as have it is definitely reason for that too
You know, I mean
Oh, yeah. Yeah, absolutely like the kuru
Times in one scene. I think this is actually
One of the keys to understanding this film is that Todd Phillips explicitly stated
That he can no longer make the comedies he made because comedy is dead because of sjw and political correctness
influences that stifle laughter and in the free expression of of comical ideas and so in a sense
Todd phillips is
Arthur fleck who who really just wants to be funny and uh is prevented by being
In being funny by the the society around him. I mean, so he's trying to force this smile
But really it's only only tears are possible when uh, you know laughing is a criminal act
Well, is there not a scene like that where he's on murray's um show right at the end and he's he's starting to rant about
His grievances and one of them is that you know
What right do these snooty people that are guests on the show with them have to decide what's funny?
You know who gave them the right to be the guardians of comedy and that just felt like a really direct shot from from
Todd phillips. Yeah
That's what I mean there's a lot to uncover about this film and that's why i'm excited to like
You know
I know it man
It's like you know, the thing about this film that's lacking
I think with most cinema these days is believe it or not in my opinion because of what Todd phillips said
I feel that this is a deeply personal film to him regardless of if it was a repurposed script
I think he has a a very
Personal artistic statement he's making here and it feels like the personal cinema of the 70s
Like I said with scorsese and uh copala and and directors of that ilk
No wonder critics hate it. Yeah, maybe you feel that uh, they know it's kind of
It's it's a movie that's making people think quick shut it down
We talked about it a little bit with uh right at the beginning, but I probably should mention this so
uh atm all the juicy red layer media
They uh joker lacked any ounce of cleverness and was underwritten as a character. That was j specifically that said that um, yeah
um
I can't believe he said that he's been roasted by the comment section
I'm pretty sure he just needs to watch the film again and forget it was made by tod phillips because apparently that gives him a huge
hate boner
Was it was his criticism of the joker joker as a character or the actual movie? He said the character was underwritten the character
Yeah, he's he really he says he really had a lot of problems with like the first act especially
And how a lot of stuff wasn't set up
And I like he felt he felt like it was
called it baby's first joker
No, baby's first taxi driver. Sorry. Yeah, sorry. Sorry. My brain's melting apparently
Yes, um, and it's it's the you right back. I don't know how to respond to it because i'm like jay
What are you doing? No, but okay. Okay to be fair to jay
He did point out that he liked the fact that the the movie was supposed to be this political
anti whatever and the the people who
Call it out for being violent. But the message of the movie is to take his mental health and
Don't shit on people who are who it's very antimaterialistic like in the in the start of the review. So
Oh, yeah, i'm not saying i'm not saying everything he said was wrong. It's just that he said a couple things that were like, oh
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
But you know, yeah
Yeah, I like mike he actually gets it. I think I think he understands the movie mike looked upset several times with that video
That's how on the red nose this movie is
There's a very simple cure for whatever made up mental and emotional problems
Arthur fleck has and it's caring about other people in some way other than wanting their laughter
Adoration or other narcissistic gratification?
Narcissistic gratification
Oh my god. Narcissistic gratification including being able to be treated nicely by somebody that's narcissistic
Yeah, don't you see doom getting beat up it's not not wanting to get beat up is narcissistic
It is it's all me me
Yeah
This is a weird insight into their thought process where it's like if you're
To see in the absolute worst in people then you're you're going to interpret this movie that way like
You see the absolute like most negative view of anyone's personality or their their actions or anything
Yeah
I got abused me me me. Oh, yeah. Look at this white guy who doesn't want to get beat up
What a fucker what a nasty fucking oppressor of the patriarchy
Or other narcissistic gratification and it's not just joker who's angry all these black
What the fuck wait, wait, wait, can we
Let me let me play it all just a big shot
We captured the perfect screenshot for our reactions there
I'm gonna play it again. Let's make sure we hear the whole thing adoration or other narcissistic gratification
And it's not just joker who's angry all these black people won't laugh at his unfunny comedy what
This is so indicative if you don't know anything about tyt this really does encapsulate well
Kind of their philosophy when it comes to race when you have a whole room full of people
Who are not laughing at your jokes?
It is framed as he is upset that black people are not laughing at his jokes
She's the only person in there. It's valid. This is like his jokes
What is tyt the young turks they're uh, i'll never arrest them. Thank you for the warning
I'll know to stay away. There's there's one thing you can watch which is like election night coverage when uh, oh, yeah
They went into it thinking. Oh, it's going to be a steamroller victory for
And then when trump won it's just like this amazing meltdown of epic proportions i'd watch uh
Uh atheism. Um atheism is unstoppable makes really good responses to tyt i'd recommend
Um tyt's cancer their uh their cancer
Well, then you know, you know the sexual rigor that's for sure
You know, do you know who his son piker is?
No
He was the guy who's in the news recently for on twitch saying fuck it. Uh, fuck it. I'm saying it america
deserved 9 11
That's real that happened
He said that's a real thing. Jesus. Nice drinking their kool-aid. Jesus. There you go
Yeah, we all need to absorb that for a second I guess
You imagine hanging out with these people in real life though you like watch this movie like I thought it was pretty good
They're like, yeah, but it was weird. How much the film hated black people
You just have this moment of just like i'm sorry
The meteor hits earth women most affected. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
I mean, it's almost like they're doing it on purpose. It's like just to try and set people off or some shit
And I think they believe it
I think that this film betrayed an absolute loathing of little people since every single little person in the movie gets killed
every single one
Well, there was only one but still yeah, he doesn't get killed you don't get killed no
I actually thought you were gonna go. Yeah, this is you're right. It's the reverse. It's a it's a little person supremacist film
I I thought I thought you were setting up a joke where you're gonna be like, no, that's my opinion
I saw that's the what I saw he died
That's what I saw I can't believe he let him go in my mind he opened the door and said oh fuck that
He killed him
I can't believe he let him go. Actually that was very sweet of him. Actually. No, that was that was a pretty great scene
And it's the one of the scenes that I really loved is where he couldn't reach the door lock
Yeah
The way he looks down after the whole audience is just like oh
Oh
And I think the the big takeaway just stays like the camera static on the door while he goes off and gets a chair
And what what is what does arthur say you were the only person who was ever nice to me, yeah, yeah a white guy
Yeah, white guy wants nicest. What how come only white people are nice to the joker? Yeah, what's that about?
portrays black
The social worker who was black was nice to him and tried to help him no
She didn't laugh at his jokes, that's true that makes her a nightmare beast or something
Yeah, that was uh, that was a legendary quote. Let's see where he goes from there
In some way other than wanting their laughter adoration or other narcissistic gratification
And it's not just joker who's angry all these black people won't laugh at his untiny comedy
Director phillips said he made joker because he can't make hilarious comedies like the hangover anymore because woke culture
Doesn't like it when he punches down
Doesn't like it when he punches down. I don't think that's just
No, he doesn't like when woke culture like cancel culture and
Leftists and progressive or that they get upset if you make humor now because make you
Basically, yeah. Well, yeah, you're not wrong
Uh, you're only allowed to make jokes about straight white men. Everything else is punching down and you can't do that
Boy god, I love 2019 it's such a you gotta reframe it
Like if thod phillips had said I don't want to make comedies because i'm interested in drama
He'd be like thod phillips said he doesn't want to make comedies because he's interested in racism
Like I don't think he said that
Changed it a little bit more because woke culture doesn't like it when he punches down
So instead of punching up for once he decided to make a quote unquote real movie
This guy was just a comic book movie
Oh, so also he should be like making a movie that punches up by making fun of white people like
What the fuck do you feel like tyt cannot grasp the concept that in the real world
Bad people can come from every class and every race and every gender
bad people can manipulate whatever they want to for whatever they want to they can come from all over the place and
tyt is undoubtedly very upset that the that joker isn't
Exclusively taking shots at the upper class white establishment
By daring to suggest that maybe poor violent rioters
Could do terrible things as well
Especially believing that they're justified in whatever they do. Yeah, but that would require nuance
Understanding of a movie, but they they don't deal in things like that
No
I also like to point out
At this point that he's proving what todd phillips has said
Yeah
Proof of thesis right there
I love how they frame it
You know they frame it as like oh
He was upset that he wasn't allowed to do comedy
Where he wasn't allowed to punch down like you might as well say, you know
He was upset that he wasn't allowed to be a racist
So he decided to make this movie instead like you're framing his actions as the most negative way you can
He wanted to connect it to his weird comments about how everyone's upset black people aren't laughing at jokes in this film
He's like he's upset that woke people won't laugh at his jokes. What are you talking about?
This is so weird
I yeah, it's it's really really obvious when the reviewer proves the point unknowingly that the film was making that they completely
Missed the point of
Actually realistic like capital a art
But here's the problem with joker's realism real white dudes don't have arthur's bs reasons to resent black women. Oh, fuck you
Why do they have to be black women what what the fuck
Real white men don't have arthur's bs reasons to hate black women. I wear black
I speak for the whites
Jesus christ, like real white people like here's the problem with real white people don't have reasons for anything
It literally doesn't matter whatever
In that sentence with real white people don't have a reason to be upset at fill in the blank anything
I love how he really commits to this though
Like he's got his ridiculous premise and he's like now i'm gonna see it through, you know
I've already established because I say so that he resents black women and now i'm gonna frame it as like well real white men
Don't have reason to hate black women like this main character does because I say he does
Like if you had this guy in this call i'd be like, well, how do then how do you justify the fact that joker's?
Hallucination drives him to be in a relationship with a black woman
Not only that a single black woman because he wants to hate fucking rags. Why?
Like all the people who he kills are white men. Yes, because they they were black underneath
I think it's a very clever ploy to hide his racism waste
This is such a square peg round hole situation. It's like this film is nothing like what you're describing. He's like, no it was it was
It was absolutely. He kills three white people in the subway. He kills
His co-worker he kills his mom
Three four five. So five dead and then he kills murray. That's six
So and they're all white
Seems like we got a racist on our heads
Wow, it does sound like you have a racist on your hands. That's right. It's not like he had personal reasons for killing
All of those people
It's so explicit it's just it's so black and white murray asked him why'd you kill those people because they were awful
What
There were bags, you know, it's it's political rags
Basic reasons to have an issue with someone well because they were a dick
All right, he's straightforward
Yeah, and he killed that woman at the end. Uh, yeah, he might have um, probably perhaps
Yeah, yeah that sequence there's a lot to say about what might be happening in that sequence
All right, but not be happening. We could assume the blood is from here. Of course
Yeah, I I don't know if it's real or not. It seems very exactly
I don't know but either way even and even then then that's just a matter of reality
His intent would be the same whether he was dreaming about it or not
so
oh man, just
What a what a what a video and this is yeah, we still got cinema roberto to come up
Oh, he's great. He's really great
Going off their meds doesn't really make you suddenly capable of carrying out complicated plans. Well, how do you what complicated?
This is the defining aspect of his character that separates him from something like heath ledgers joker who's like a criminal mastermind
This guy doesn't have a plan
You know, he acts almost like minute to minute. How can you call what he did a complicated plan?
He's running from the police at the beginning of his plan
He's like
My plan is to begin by running away from the police
That's how all good plans begin all good criminal plans begin with i'm running desperately away from the police trying to catch me
And then he just goes you've got to get the basics out of the way, I suppose I like how he's like there to improvise
He stopped taking his meds. That doesn't mean he's a mastermind. It's like what what phil who are you talking to?
What movie did you watch?
I think he watched half of this and then he just skipped to like the dark night or something
According to this clown arthur fleck purposely bombed in that nightclub
Knowing that someone would film it. It would get to murray murray would put it on the air and then
He would cleverly sneak a gun on there. I mean it's quite clear and all because he stopped taking his meds
That's how it works. Yeah, it makes you smart obviously a joker master of how is this person?
Got billions of subscribers
Coincidence this person's take on movies is so great. I would I want to see more, you know
If your meds doesn't really make you suddenly capable of carrying out complicated plans committing murder and literally getting away with murder
Why do you need to stop taking meds in order to commit murder?
Also, what is the connection necessarily that makes it the most non-committal statement in the universe, right?
But it doesn't necessarily allow this it's like, okay, what a useless statement
Yeah
I could you could murder whether or not you're on meds
Like it's I mean look at look at the pause frame here. One of the lights is on and guess which one he's looking at
The black one. Oh
Well, don't you see as a metaphor for not all the lights are on up there in his head his white head
It's a metaphor for the uh, I don't know
The whites are bright. I guess. I don't know
The lights are okay. The lights the whites are bright
People don't really do this more than other people do and in fact, no one does
What's three decades of urban decay in america?
Well, I'd argue that mentally ill people probably are more likely to commit murders or whatever like if they're unstable and dangerous
Was he about to make a point about how nobody's killed anybody in three decades? What was he about to say there?
Let's just have a look
Yeah
Mentally ill people don't really do this more than other people do and in fact
No one does this in three decades of urban decay in america at no point
Did a lone killer inspire a movement of widespread working class violent uprising?
Meaning it's not possible
It if yeah, just because it first off I don't even know first off I don't know if that's even true
Second if it was true that wouldn't disapprove anything that happens in the film
You can't say because something hasn't happened. It cannot happen
It cannot happen. That's
That's just retarded logic to a degree
This is like saying at no point in american history as robert deniro ever hosted a late night talk show
Stuff that happens in a film like
Yeah, it's pathetic plus he's missing the point that uh, it's debatable whether that uprising happened at all
That's the whole point. I mean, this is an unreliable narrator as I said before
and if this guy was used to dealing with film as film rather than as
Propaganda and a platform for injecting your own political bullshit into it
You might get that but this guy has the you know soul of a I don't know plumber shoe salesman
He really doesn't have the imagination
To to be a film critic. Uh, this guy sucks
so
On health.harvard.edu this says here that most individuals with psychiatric disorders are not violent
Although a subset of people with psychiatric disorders commit assaults and violent crimes
Findings have been inconsistent about how much mental illness contribute to this behavior and how much substance abuse and other factors do
which so I don't even know if the whole idea that they
They use like how mental illness does necessarily contribute to violence and it's unclear in the film
Just how much mental illness is the motivation for him shooting people compared to the personal issues?
He has with them and his his horrible life the idea that like he's only doing it because he's mentally ill
He'll be like well, no
It's a lot more complicated than that and as long as there's precedent for mental illness
Being able to accentuate like I don't know how you perceive the world
Which I don't think that's I'm sure that's reasonable. I don't know what he's taking issue with is kind of where i'm going with this
This hasn't happened in the world the way it happens in the film. You're like, okay
The shooting on the subway is
reminiscent of a shooting on a subway by a guy named bernard gets
Who uh actually shot a number of teenagers who are harassing him on the subway?
Uh, I think probably it was in the 80s 80s or 90s and uh, I mean that was a big deal
So this did happen actually
so it looks like here, um from mental illness policy.org which links to a
2011 study that suggests that state homicide rates are correlated to the state's civil commitment laws that is
States that make it easier to treat people with mental illnesses have lower homicide rates
And if that's not joker, then I don't know it is
So i'm i'm absolutely ready to now without delving further into the data
I'm willing to accept tentatively
Tentatively at face value that the less we take care of mentally ill people the more bad things will happen as a result
I think most people can get behind that and I wouldn't even really call that political. That seems to be a pretty
Ridiculous not take fueled by your obsession with pausing every frame
Easy to say when you have white privilege
Yes
That's a great working class violent uprising real grown-ups don't really get physically assaulted without provocation at the rate arthur fleck does
Why?
Don't go around dressed like clowns and suffer from involuntary laughing
So the times he gets beaten up
One is what seems to be partially a mugging partially a we just want to fuck with somebody and there's this clown
like
He he's very much one of those like oh that looks like a target. Look at it. He looks ridiculous
That sort of thing. Fuck with him. Take a sign
um, the other time is the train
where
He's got you got three drunk belligerent guys and he's like laughing at them and he won't stop
like
Even I was like, oh he's gonna get fucking beaten up here and it's like, oh that's connected to his illness. They both basically
Both times have reasoning behind them beyond just randomly getting beaten up. You know what I mean?
And also like he's walking down the street in normal clothes and people just sit upon him like
If arthur's character was black in this film
Tyt would dare not say the same thing
Their tune would be completely different and they would say the film is showing us
That marginalized people in our society are more prone to being attacked by people on the streets because of racism and duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, right
Their tune would be completely different if arthur wasn't a white male
Let alone the fact that by their definition
The fact that he is mentally ill would make him a marginalized person, but all of that is trumped by his skin color
So it doesn't matter
Like negative when they would applaud the uh, the uprising and shooting as inspirational
Absolutely. Yep. It would be justified entirely justified against the system against the patriarchy
Uh hierarchy of the city that's putting down
All well putting down everybody which translates to putting down the blacks, right?
Yes, bring two terrible traumatic beatings in the space of only a few days
Can't happen
Sorry can't happen beaten up twice within a few days like yeah
I I think that even in my town I could have that happen to me if I did some of the stuff he did like
Late at night go up to three drunk guys in town and just laugh at them continuously
I honestly i'd expect a punch to the face
um
And then yeah, he's just he's really unlucky in the street here like it is a
It is not entirely coincidental and even if it was it would be extremely believable
Especially with how they present the state of gotham to be
Own white men on busy streets in broad daylight
Real people may suffer some of the tragedies that perform arthur fleck, but not all of them
So first off fuck you, um know this second off. Yeah, how could you
How could you even begin to say that this doesn't happen to real people?
Yeah, look wow. Holy shit. What is your data collection for this?
If you asked everyone on the black guy if arthur was a black guy, they would be
instantly ready to accept without any other evidence or with and without any other state movement without a second thought that
Oh, yeah, of course this happens to black people
Yeah, of course. Absolutely
Every day that they see is is about they cannot look past race and gender and sexuality
They can't do it. Everything is colored by that. Yep
A
Bizarre video like white the idea that a white person might have it bad is just a sacrilegious heresy
Yes, it's self-pitying nonsense meant to justify the uh privilege of the patriarchy
It's so funny watching people like that trying to grapple with a movie like this
Yeah, which is kind of kind of apolitical and tells the universal story with a guy who could be anyone basically
But they're desperately trying to graft all these politics onto it
It doesn't fit and they're like struggling and wrecking their brains and it's just it's great to watch
When normal people go to the theater tyt aren't normal people
But when normal people go to the theater and they watch this they aren't thinking wow
This white person is really down on his luck
They think they don't relate to him as a white person. They don't relate to him as a straight person
They relate to him as a character who has issues and who has a personal life and who has bad things happen to him
like people normal people
Don't view everything through these
These lenses and tyt can't they they can't view things from
Just the perspective of a normal individual. I mean honestly
He doesn't even sound that into this like passion wise and he's probably like
You might just be about both pc has like a couple of rules when he ever makes a movie review this guy
Like you've got to make it about this this this this and he's like, yeah, okay
It's like he didn't watch the movie. He just read some blue
Trekmark twitter thread about
Someone bitching about it and he's like, okay, that's basically like seeing the movie
I will now make a video about it and I will use trailer footage for it. Yeah
I think so
Uncaring world in which joker is justified for leading this
politically scrambled incoherent movement justifies an interesting
What do you say I politically scrambled
I will roll it back movements
In which joker is justified for leading this
politically scrambled incoherent movement is only a politically scrambled incoherent movement
Okay unified on their goal
First off even you can have politically scrambled incoherent movements, right?
What do you think the alt right began as years ago?
What do you think antifa began as what do you think gamer gate began as?
like you can have especially with the with the internet you can have political movements or social movements that are very
Ambiguously led if they have any leadership at all and their goals might not be unified and they might eventually morph into something else
Like the this isn't an unreasonable. A lot of people are pointing out. He's not the leader not even by a log shot
also that
Joker's not a leader. He he I just joker can specifically say i'm not political
I kill those people because they're just being jerks to me. Yeah
It's so blatant like what you think he's lying
Like if anything, this is the one point where he can just be himself and he can be honest about everything
And he can talk to someone on the stage and he can let out what he's feeling
Like he's never more honest than there on mary's show. Yeah
I love that whole scene. Uh, I love the whole film at this point. Oh, it's great. I love that scene
I had no idea what was gonna happen
I was it was tense
real
Oh
I got reset
Yeah, I got reset to two seconds t y t investigates that's hilarious you didn't think investigation would entail seeing the movie
But how do you have an investigation on a movie that's less than four minutes?
What did you uncover exactly?
Here movement is only real
in bad comic books
Got him only real in bad comic books, right?
That's just not true though. As the example i've given will testify. It's insane. Um
I the idea that
You have tyt
Investigates like what investigation did you do exactly?
I I doubt that you even watched the film that you're commenting on
Like I I legit don't really believe you watch the film. I like that
So it's all very high level stuff that he's pointing out here the sort of stuff you can get from a trailer and reading a quick synopsis
Well, look at the title why this joker is a real loser. He's like, yeah
That's kind of the point. He's a loser
He's certainly not succeeding
And that drives him to do the things that he does and all the repercussions that come along with that like
I mean you're right. The title is correct. But for all the wrong reasons
Like how they're like, hey become a member it's like no
No, i'm too busy wanting black people to laugh at my jokes
That's well, what else do we do at our day today?
All four five of us here. We just walk around town being like hey, you're a black person laughing my joke and then they run away screaming nuts
But that leads us into what you could call the main event. Um
He's he's he's been on efab twice before
Is can I get a drink go for it?
Yeah, i've already started as well for this to be honest and got myself a blue moon
Um, we're going for it, man
Give me a bit 30 seconds
Comments on this are good
well, yeah
This is this is what we're like, of course, we're always gonna see uh, routines from
Movie bob because he's just so awful at everything that he does
So it's just like yep people still watch him
You got to check out his take because it'll help as a vehicle to discuss what actually happens in in the movie
What we're talking about
Um also at weekend warrior. Did he say he was coming back? Did he have to leave the discord to get alcohol?
Is that
Um
Please anyone put him
Sorry, cinema roberto deserves to be hurt
Hey, this is
This is a review like imagine someone's making a review or commentary on a film and they say and they and they lament the fact
that the protagonist was
mugged by not caucasians
Such a strange first thing to think about like, oh, okay like oh he was mugged by not white people he's like, okay
Bill robert, please. No guys
What's all this hate for movie bob rags? Do you know about this? People apparently don't like him
listen movie bob
is
just
I I don't
I don't even know what to think about movie bob sometimes he's
Movie bob if anything else
Is a fantastic he should be like an he an icon for everyone
If you're out there
on the internet
And you're trying to make it big
And you don't know if you can succeed on the internet and you don't know if you can become an internet commentator
I want you to know that in much the same way that even hitler at his eva
That even someone with the insanely stupid opinions
As movie bob can literally be paid for his opinions
So if he can do it then you can do it because there is not a single ounce of talent
in all of movie bob's
Entire massive body. I think some people were concerned. He's not going to be speaking fast guys
We've got him on a normal video where he talks more like a human being so that's going to be useful
and um
Yeah, like you know, he he was described by patrick willams as being basically the only like traditional reviewer left on youtube. So
um, and that's insane like it would take someone like patrick willams to
To to sing the praises of movie bob's reviewing capabilities
It's like rich evan said it's like what rich evan said is like i've gotten laid
So can you because like well movie bob has is paid for his youtube videos and if he can do it
Then i'm damn sure that everyone else can
Um, I don't know movie bob so I can't oh you're in for a treat
Uh is is I don't know where we can warrior. Oh, there he is. Nice back
wonderful timing
Hello, did you get your alcohol?
Yes, I did
Good, you're gonna need it in my cup
Is everyone ready?
Well, all right
I was really hoping we were done with the whole grim and gritty realism thing and yeah
The director is making an out. Sorry. Did he paint his door and his door handle green?
His saves having to get a green screen
No, I because I don't know if this is in and of itself a green screen
Maybe it is. I mean i'm assuming that's the point is that he turns it into a green screen. I guess
Yeah
But is like no, I mean like is the image of the green wall and the green
Door and the green handle is that so his green screen image is a green screen
You need it to be one color like for this to work
Well, otherwise the doorknob will keep like fizzling if you know what I mean with the green screen
Also as you turn the doorknob to get in and out of the door you will wipe away the paint
That's probably why it's it's not as green as the rest. He's probably got green on his hands for only
maybe
Good start ball. What are you?
Really hoping we were done with the whole grim and gritty realism and can and side note
Can we end this thing about wearing jackets with a t-shirt underneath? Can we stop that?
I thought that was a thing like 20 years ago
Can we not do that if don't don't wear a t-shirt and then just put like a blazer or whatever over it?
Because that looks stupid
Like decide how formal you want to be he seems like quite a portly gentleman
So I don't know you would have layer up when you do you think it's the socks and sandals of upper wear
It's the yeah, it's socks and crocs is what it is. This is the this is the waist up version of crocs with socks
I just said rags say disagree
It depends on the person who's wearing it and I think movie ball gets can't no one gets a pass
No one gets a pass
All none of you are free. I I disagree Martins are okay because they're not ethlings. They don't subscribe to our rules. So you're fine
Marshmallows marshmallows thing and yeah
The director is making an asshole of himself in the press and social media for no reason which is never a great sign
But this is a pretty that's poison that well gents. Yeah, that well's thoroughly poised
Yeah, that's poison that well. We got no references. It's just true moving on
Okay
There's like the whole jay thing is like director director the director is like just to review the film
Yeah, like you saw no, okay
So I was talking about the film like no we can't without talking about what the director said on the twitter
It's signed
But this is a pretty interesting idea for a spin-off movie the trailers have been promising Joaquin phoenix looks interesting
and I can see how this would open up the genre to fun and alternative takes and a space for people to really
Stretch within the studio system. So yeah, i've been looking forward to this really domestic like because he just said
We were done with the whole grim and gritty
realism type
When was it ever portrayed as something other than that? Why are you looking for coherency in a movie bob video?
What's wrong with you? Got him
Joker I also hate this part
The transition shit. Oh, well he's trying this is this so this opening is a joke
Like the whole point of it is to make a joke. It's gonna once you figure it out because it's really simple
You're gonna be like, wow. Why did you waste our time with this? But you know
Oh boy, this is not working
It's also not funny
Oh boy
Okay. Well
But it is
Technically well made I guess I really don't want the internet to be throwing things at me all fucking years. So
Okay movie i'm willing to be super generous and let you off with like a five out of ten
Just get to the end of yourself without having him deliver a big dramatic monologue about society and hypocrisy and
All the stuff that the preceding film was supposed to convey but did not deal it did though was supposed to convey but didn't
Hmm
We're over a minute into an eight and a half five out of ten. I actually said anything about it yet
He's getting the soul in favor of a joke. That's what I mean. Like you're about to get to the joke. Here it is
And
You did the thing
Okay. All right. Okay. I'll give you one more shot
If you can just maintain the courage of your original convictions that this was a one-off
Unconnected unique little experiment by not throwing in a gratuitous extra back door open to sinking this up
If the fanboys demand it
Well, no, no like
That was it well, did you love the jokes on you bob because we're not black so we don't have to laugh at your jokes
I'm gonna start talking english. We're we're we're about to get through that gibberish
I I don't know what's going on. So his intro joke was please don't do all these things. I don't like you did them boo
Yeah, that was
In so many quotes joke that was the joke
Yeah, you guys didn't laugh because your soul is that's why yeah
And then go escape from movie bob escape from movie
Do you think you've got a long enough intro there bob jesus christ
It's like a whole rock song just like going
And
So joker isn't good an intro
An intro can be long so long as it's funny. I think and none of it is engaging at this point
If your intro isn't a fourth of your video
Yeah
Like rags your intros are long. Yeah, my videos are 45 15 hour long
Um, did you like his opening his joker isn't good. It's just like oh
Okay
Oh got it. Sorry. I mean, I I really am
Sorry, I wanted this to be good both because I sincerely want everything to be good since the world is kind of miserable and worthless
Enough on its own the last few years and it doesn't also need the entertainment to suck
But also i'm just already tired here on day one of the inevitable
Well, you weren't 100 percent sold on the idea ahead of time and you said so which means you were biased straw man
No, this is relevant get to the actual film
Yeah here
Run out of time here. You're running out of time
We got six minutes and I know part of that will probably be an outro yet. You gotta talk about it
For reference me and rags wanted to hurry up because we've got some so little left if this is like an hour long video
I would really care. Oh, yeah, that's the thing. This is an eight and a half minute video
We're two minutes and 18 seconds in and he said it's not good still waffling. Yeah
This thing is like
When you when you start a video by saying oh, I don't want to do this
But you know, I have to criticize it. I have to tell you that it's shit
Like that doesn't make your opinion bulletproof
It doesn't mean people aren't going to push back against it just because you claim you didn't want to say it
No, well, he's saying start the video
Sorry that it sucked and you know because the world is a miserable place then. Why aren't you trying to help movie bob?
Why are you like subjecting us to this misery?
You start the video sucks and you're contributing to the problem bob. You're not helping
It's the whole it's the whole youtuber thing where the video begins and opens up of the person sitting down in the chair that they
Will be sitting down in for the video a sigh and then saying I didn't want to make this video
bonus points you have a little doggy like yeah, oofin bonus points
Oh on the idea ahead of time and you said so which means you were biased and paid off by disney or whoever and just
Want everything you think the last jedi's good marvel things framing being applied to myself and every other
Busters was good
Marvel fanboys very wrong about movies
What?
What are the marvel fanboys have to do with this?
How do you rope them into this? I guess if you don't like joker that means you have pro marvel anti-dc
I guess is where you come with that
I haven't even considered that as a concept. I don't
Okay
He doesn't know the difference between marvel and dc basically
Doesn't fall in the line behind what I sincerely accept was a well-intentioned, but admirably ambitious misfire
Already now partly because you know the sheer volume of irony involved in being lectured on
Deciding ahead of time to dislike something by people who already knew they were going to like it move the fuck on
He's still talking about people's being mean to him. He's still he's still wrestling with like straw men
It's like you think he has a crime to like suicide squad
You think people weren't fucking ready?
For to like that and to love it and look how that turned out
Remember the last film we saw joker in movie bob. Maybe your maybe your memory is not that great
I'd like to point out at this point that he has an intro to his review that already has an intro. I mean
Jesus christ too many interests. It's the pre. It's the pre intro. You know, it's like first breakfast to a hobbit
Yeah, that makes sense
For a change and rather surprisingly joker turns out to be the sort of bad movie that's bad mostly because it's so empty
Unoriginal empty unoriginal and boring
Empty unoriginal and boring and how far are we into this efap now?
And we've been talking non-stop about all the messages in it and all the details and what it's saying
Just for context as well you said that movie bob thought that uh, ghostbusters was a good movie
I think he realizes this for being empty unoriginal and boring. Did movie bobs like ghostbusters?
I don't know. Just one of you guys said it and I just assumed
Yeah, he did like the thumbnail has two sums up in it
Like okay, we did
Fucking christ. Well, I I just googled. I just went to youtube to take a look at his ghostbusters review
Um, I haven't watched it
But here we go. That's the like dislike ratio on it pretty pretty grim 3.9 k up 2.7 k down
But I mean it's like, you know, I can get like some people will defend tlj
But almost nobody comes out and says yeah ghostbusters was a good film. I like that
I mean, that's just like next level
I would just love him to compare those two films and like yeah
This is why I love ghostbusters and this is why I hate joker
He's like, how is it that?
He's paid to do movie reviews and he like loves every shitty movie and thinks like all the good movies are
Terrible. I don't understand
Like I know it's subjective to a degree
And there's a taste element of it. But how can you be so consistently?
How can you have such consistent shitty opinions and this is your job?
I thought people paid you to not do that
A lot of comments are like i'm always interested to hear you of you even if even if I disagree and i'm like
What does that what do you mean when you say that?
Do you like listening to him tell you it's boring and unoriginal
Why?
It's maybe just that weird effect of like, you know, you just listen to his voice
But you don't really take in anything that he's saying like they just kind of like him for whatever reason
He's the quintessential vapid empty reviewer. I've always assumed it's just because he's been around since the fucking beginning, man
Like i've always known he existed but his reviews would have been terrible this whole time. He's still going
He has his inspiration
We're already two minutes and 48 seconds into this thing and he's yet to cite one specific example to support a thesis
Or even really to state a thesis other than it's bad
Six minutes of actual review of this movie
All right, maybe that's incredible
Yeah, I was gonna say that's optimistic. Let's see
Joker turns out to be the sort of bad movie that's bad mostly because it's so empty
unoriginal and boring with so little to actually say after all the self-insistence that the
Prospect of being forced to find more things to say about it even a week or two from now sounds like torment
Here we are
How long has it been since it released
Wait, wait guys
You know shakespeare is empty and boring and unoriginal if you're a boob
Yes, if you don't get something, of course, it's boring if you don't understand it
Yeah, it says more about you buddy. This movie came out nine days ago. It's over a week. Oh, no
We've had interesting things to say about it overnight days ago. Oh, no
Movie blob. Oh, yeah
The prospect of being forced to find more things to say about it even a week or two from now sounds like torment
in what's sure to become an infamously condescending press quote phillips claimed that he wanted to use joker as a way to
Sneak a real movie in the studio system in the guise of it seems like everybody wants to talk about that quote
How's that infamous? I don't think I don't think I don't see anything wrong with that
Yeah, he calls phillips condescending when he is also a condescending piece of shit
Thanks. Well, no one I suppose but uh, I just like the idea like I don't
Genuinely to todd phillips over like when you say real movie
What do you mean just to use develop that i'm just curious
I'm assuming he's referencing like something that it's closer to home or it's a bit more grounded a message here
A movie is a real movie if it has a message that bob approves of
Of a comic book film
But what he's delivered is more like a feature length equivalent to one of those pop culture
Mash-up t-shirts that you see on sale at the sketchy mall kiosks. No, I have no idea. What would that be?
Joker and
Scarface no, no. No, I mean what what would the mash-up be in joker's case?
Joker. Oh, okay
Oh
T-shirt what would be on it
No, he's saying because he's gonna talk about like like i've got a couple of these shits they're cool
I got like a jurassic park one, but with alien instead on the silhouette
So it's like and it has lv4 26
Point being is that he's saying that this movie is like one of those shirts come to life or at least in a movie
And i'm just like so what is the combo trying to say?
Yeah, but what's the combo like he's saying this is an ugly shirt that you'd buy at some
store that sells
Oh, it's pretentious ugly shirts. Irony's not lost on me
but man I
Where he's running out of time well
He's very ambiguous. It's a poster for scarface, but then you look again and it's not tony montana
It's like vegeta and you go. Oh, hey, that's cute
But then if you ask whoever the artist was like so is the juxtaposition of like the tormented immigrants journey corrupted by the
You're taking this metaphor way too embodied in the scarface narrative with vegeta's say
Why did you cut to footage of joker when you're still talking about vegeta and scarface crossovers? Like what is
what
Again, he's not said anything
Actually substantive about the movie. He's just like right
I've got this cool metaphor that i've been waiting ages to level at a movie and now i'm going to run with it for
The next two minutes like how fast we're getting through this video compared to the last one because nothing's being said
We're just kind of breezing through it this scene right here while it's paused on this I just like to say this scene where he is
Uh contorting and and and doing these weird things with his back
Uh, it is evocative of two things to me
It was evocative of travis bickel, you know training for his uh ultimate assault at the end of taxi driver
and it also to me suggested like a
Like a caterpillar and a chrysalis struggling to get out and uh and become his true self
Which would be you know, metamorphosing into the joker. I thought this was a very interesting
visual scene here
Because that looks painful like you see his left arm there it's like it's been broken and dislocated or something
It just looks so out of line
I was thinking of vego mortensen in the road
Hmm. Yeah, I didn't see that. I didn't see that
I mean, I definitely got a sense as well of the there's like a creep factor to it in terms of just like this
This man like he's so broken
And uh just watching he's wrestling with a fucking shoe like that's where he's at
And it's just like you you all these things coming together. This is where they don't waste any screen time in this film
No, unlike movie bob beautiful visual metaphor regardless of how you interpret it
Uh, but for for movie bob to say that it's uh, got no ideas and it's boring and
Just I think it says something about movie bob's attention span and uh intellectual acumen or lack thereof
Laughter of yeah, that's that's the thing. I don't get about the
Saying it's boring. That's that's the weirdest thing I get from the reviews here. It's boring. It's like yeah
It's like well, do you know like this is what happens when you get invested in a character?
You're gripped by what they do. They could be doing mundane stuff
But like it's absolutely enthralling because you're so
Bought into the reality you're seeing like I don't know what movie bob expects like every time you shoot someone they explode or you know
Wants end game
Let's compare movie bob's take because we've covered movie bob talking about the last jedi
And that man he is squeezing blood from a stone. He's trying to find every
subtext metanarrative
That he could possibly get from everything he can in the last jedi desperate to make it meaningful and good
Reference, right? I can't tell like the one that he had about how ray is supposed to represent fans of the films
No, it was well, it's weird because i've heard that kylo is the fanboy too
Well, yeah, also ray is the true fan of star wars
Yeah
She's she's the like coherent normal fan who's trying to reignite the love for a great fan
Franchise while kylo is the crazy raging fan like all of us basically with kylo
Yeah, and you look at joker joker comes out on metacritic. It is nine point three
Average user score. The messages are not complex
Which is one thing I think that why it's rated so highly it doesn't try to get full of itself to be like mirror
It doesn't try to get full of itself
It doesn't try to have all the subtext metanarratives that it really needs to have it doesn't need any of that stuff
It's it's it's got its premise pretty obvious
Audiences understand it. It's executed. Well, and so the big hoity toity reviewers like movie bob who have to be artsy fartsy who have to be
Super pretentious and look for every little detail
It's almost like they can't fathom the idea that this is a really approachable film that everyone loves
Because it's like it's the power of simplicity
Yeah, he just can't grasp it
The idea that this is a movie people can enjoy
It's totally lost on him
It's like he doesn't want to associate his love with joker with all the plebeians who go to the theater like normal
But it's like he's never seen a movie that was made more than 10 years ago, you know movies that were
Well, maybe i'm going a bit a bit further than that
But like character driven movies that didn't necessarily have a subtext or a theme or anything
It's just a really interesting character study of a person
You're not new to this, right?
Like that's all discussion for films is with a lot of these critics now
It has to be about a theme or a subtext. It can't just be what the film is
Yeah, yeah, because that's you're doing it wrong as a critic
You're fucking up if you're not talking about a deep deep deep
Part of it. I'm not even i'm not saying that's a bad thing or anything. It's just it's just frustrating that like
Are you just talking about what's in it? No, okay. Yeah. Okay. The joker hates black women
Okay, that's your conclusion. All right
Yeah, I I think that there's nothing wrong with looking at uh subtext in a film that is artistic
But again, I think what they're trying to do is really insert, uh, you know
Propaganda into everything, you know, they're trying to even see propaganda in things that don't have any propaganda in them
But you know, unfortunately things like last jedi and stuff do have propaganda inserted into them
I mean they really do but the difference for them is is their kind of propaganda. So exactly
Yeah, yeah, they'll talk it as rags point out. They'll talk infinitely about it in films that they like feel are supporting them. But um
Joker, you know, that's a film of nothing in it. Nothing really in it. This is boring. It's crap boring boring
And what is in it is probably wrong for what it is
Um, yeah, yeah, they they can't see face value
They don't see artistic value if a film isn't a propagandistic statement reinforcing their sjw objectives then it's not worth
Worth mentioning, you know
It's boring at that point, isn't it? Because what are they supposed to do watch the events unfold?
Joker's got this message that we can all relate to no matter what side of the political aisle you're on for the most part no matter
Where you're from or who you are is like the idea that we should be nice to people some people have it rough
So you should be good to them
And you shouldn't be overboard with your reactions and you should try to understand people and talk to them
So like that's a very approachable message for everybody and it doesn't try to hide that message
it's very obvious and the fact that movie bob just
Can't grasp first off. Of course movie bob can't grasp the concept of tolerance for other people who differ from him
Man it it's almost it's so simple and he just can't get it
He's just you must be something more. There must be something more. It's like no. No, that's it. It's simple. It's just executed. Well
Yes, I agree
demons of american racism and capitalism as embodied in the scarface narrative with vegeta's saiyan dark prince to husband father redemption arc supposed to be
Like mirroring and ironic or contradictory symbolism. They're like juxtapa who so it is with phillips and joker or seemingly wearing these
Smashes together the rough plot outlines of the most famous visual beats of martin's corsese taxi. Yeah, there you go
It's gonna be taxi driver taxi driver
No one else can do it anymore a taxi driver did it once that one time
If you have a film about a man who is just upset I would make it that broad he's upset
Yeah, and it's set in the past or it's set in the past baller it has to be set in the past therefore
It's taxi driver. Oh, yeah, if it's in the past too. Also your mic is doing the thing again
Oh, oh wait, i'll leave and come back
Yeah, it's kind of like, you know saving private ryan it did a film about war
So we can't ever have another film about war ever. Nope
What else is there? Uh superhero movies. We can't have more. Oh, well, fuck we've got loads more
They're all I am mad at other films the joker. Yeah, it's just a redo
It's so boring like uh, we'll have to address a video eventually going over how it's a quote unquote rip off
But i've seen taxi driver thoroughly. I know that felt very well. It's good shit. I know king of comedy. Well
Joker's its own thing. Please stop saying it's a rip off, please
And if you're gonna say it, please go into detail
Because if I see taxi driver and I probably will here with you for this video and it ain't a it ain't a beat for beat
Joker movie and I will feel as if I might have been lied to
Movie pop you lied to him
All right
Also his chat points out yeah, his cheek points his cheekbones are very odd he's uh, so what's happening is he's
He's being stretched. He's like simultaneously fat and gone at the same. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
So what happened was his face was like dislocated at the jaw stretched up and then
Reattached I don't know why but that's what happens
He looks like one of those old christmas movie puppets sort of
That's just like but they like retired and they gained a lot of weight in everything
It looks like it looks like mundane matt like 10 years from now. Oh, no
Yeah, sort of
Thank god movie bob hasn't spawned anything. I don't think we don't know who knows that
I movie bobs totally didn't sell change my mind. No one hates this film. Oh, no, because it's about
Together the rough plot outlines of the most famous visual beats of martin scorsese's taxi driver
And also martin scorsese's the king of comedy complete with robert deniero cameo and plugs they finished
origin story for an iconic comic book bad guy into the villain protagonist spot for the ultimate purpose of saying
Hey, if scorsese or somebody had done a joker movie in 1982 that would have been but that doesn't mean that doesn't mean it's good or bad
Nothing to do with its quality. That's what I mean. I'm like i'm waiting for the part where I can respond i'm like you're saying stuff that's
yeah
This doesn't have anything to do with whether it's good or bad like the the the tweets of the
Filmmaker or whatever. I it doesn't have anything to do with whether the film is good or not
It might in a meta way inform something in the film to some degree
Surely, but you're not actually telling me anything about the film here
If you're trying if I haven't seen the joker and I watch this film thinking. Oh, maybe I'll learn something about it
No, you won't you won't learn a damn thing about this film if you watch movie, but
The time's half up. It is 11 seconds in I was gonna say it
We're gonna listen to that part again
And if anyone wants to say anything about it go for it
But I think we're just gonna go past it because it's just what what do you have to say?
And plugs a revisionist origin story for an iconic comic book bad guy into the villain protagonist spot for the ultimate purpose of saying
Hey, if scorsese or somebody had done a joker movie in 1982, that would have been pretty hardcore, right?
The saving grace. Yes is that Joaquin phoenix is very oh, wait. Wait, that sentence was like its own self-contained non sequitur of itself
So
Our region is set to europe maybe we need to go back to good old singapore
I don't think that will fix it because it's specific to him
Wait, wait, you know you were saying this is like movie bob talking slower
like
Oh, you normally like oh, dude. Hello
Hey, is it better now or what? Yes, it is. Yes better
Hello, so hello
The common thing I want to say is that the movies that keep on shitting on the joker movie the reviews
They keep saying though that oh, but waquin phoenix was good in it. It's like no one can deny that he did amazing. So
yeah, so
it's just
Can you appreciate the movie, please? It's just
The answer is no also yeah
Brinker I I don't I don't recommend it for more than seconds, but he has other videos. Um,
I think they're called the big picture. He speaks really fast and it's mind-numbingly insane
You know yachtsi can do fast speaking because he's really eloquent and he puts together a good script
But like you get someone like this who's just going to be spouting nonsense
But it's going to be fast nonsense so you can make even less sense of it
Like the ravings of a lunatic
We're halfway through he hasn't said anything about the film
Say something about the film
Mahler he did say something it it copied taxi driver and king of comedy. So it's bad
That's what he's implying I think i'm not convinced
It's a revisionist take on the the joker's origin because I don't feel like we ever really had an origin
When we got multiple origins though
The joker, isn't that like part of the joker's whole stick is that it's
Because what i'm getting at is that this say this universe evolved into a whole bunch of movies
This wouldn't necessarily be the only joker in this universe like he could die. And then yeah, absolutely
Someone else could take up the mantle
I just don't think that this is a joker movie per se
My ultimate take on this is that it has nothing to do with the joker
In the movie they talk about how he was horribly abused as an adopted child and when they found him
He was chained to a radiator
And it seems to me that a young man in such a horrific
state might escape to a world of fantasy much like sam laurie does at the end of brazil and
And you know, maybe he saw batman. Maybe he read a batman comic book
Maybe in this state of delirium and depression part of his escape was thinking that just like bruce wayne was a
abused and orphaned a young boy in a cruel world, uh, so is he and and and maybe he's his brother and uh,
You know
In his semi lucid state throughout this movie. Uh, there might be a politician named thomas wayne
Probably has nothing to do with batman, but he basically confabulates all this stuff
And and I don't think that this is a joker origin story at all. I think this could be the tale of a
A sad abused boy who uh is is hallucinating in the batman mythos, son
And that's why I personally would not like to see any kind of sequel to it. Oh, no sequel
No, no, no, it's good as it is. No, please. No, please. Yeah
And plus as I said to mauler earlier before efap
If you have no idea who batman is who the joker is who the dc comic books
Are and what they do and the characters in it?
You could walk right into joker and get everything that it was trying to say. Yeah. Yeah
You don't need any kind of comic as the whole sequel thing
It's better than like everything in the dcu, which is the only reason why i'm like, yes
What better than aquaman?
Oh my god
Cool man, how could you say that?
Um
But I get I want to see joker. I want to see walking phoenix fight aqua in the streets of that
Can we address the common criticism that people say a shot against this movie is that this joker couldn't possibly defeat batman?
It's such a batman's like 12 years old it's like a strange as fuck criticism. He's like, okay
uh
Sure, well he's not trying to fight batman
Batman doesn't exist yet
I don't want to see you don't mean that like he leaves me bewildered. I'm like, uh, like what dc does that?
Yeah, I uh, I get as crazy as this sounds i'm like, I don't know
I would like to see more of this content. It doesn't have to be a dcu just
On phillips go make more good films. Go make more good words
Like use the comic books and the characters as inspiration to tell stories not hardline
Fastening yourself to the characters within those comic books
because I understand that um a sequel could destroy everything or uh, it could
almost
Homogenize it into like it basically you take the cool new thing and then you just make it everything and you're like, oh
Because you could foresee this horrible future where marvel have their format and then this is the format for dc or something and they just
You know, but I think yeah
You just you can't possibly ever
Um integrate this into the dc. Yeah, which is why I want to I kind of want them to do it over
Somehow, I don't know how to start with this exactly
But I just I want to be into a set of dc movies. I want to like them. I want to be like, oh
A new dc movie how wonderful instead of okay, everyone get your alcohol ready. This is gonna be funny, right?
Because like marvel ready to save martha
Marvel is a gamble right now and it's like the the odds are going lower and lower it seems
Um, yeah, but dc it's like, oh, yeah
Aquaman 2 is gonna
I don't know
I think fundamentally it's that thing of like you're you're never gonna out marvel marvel
And so that's where dc has fallen so short
They've tried to copy that formula and it's just had been a disaster
But then you get really interested in different movies like this
and you think cool like
You can just create a string of unrelated movies that just explore really interesting facets of the superhero genre without
Being you know tied into all the the conventions of it
You can do interesting things like that and it doesn't have to form a larger interconnected universe
You can just tell interesting standalone stories if you want to
Try yeah very much like the else world's, uh, you know line in in comics, uh, you know things that are outside of canon
But ultimately really what I would like to see is the studio learn their lesson
And go ahead and give filmmakers 40 million 50 million dollar budgets
And uh and entrust the project to writers and directors with passion and see what happens all of a sudden your profits go through the roof
When you actually had a story to tell by people who love to tell stories instead of cronies and flunkies
In in affirmative hires like jar jar abrams and ruin johnson and kathleen kennedy all these privileged fucks that got in there
Not by dint of talent, but by connections and whose nephew they are
That I mean that would be a huge huge improvement for american cinema and audiences everywhere
You know what the tragedy would be
The lesson that they get from joker is oh, we got to set it in the 80s and make it dark
They're gonna get some weird set of rules from this like you have to have a robert deniro you're like, well, no
Robert deniro has to be shot in the head at the end of this movie
He's the kenny of the dc unifis
Stanley of like he's got a role in every single movie another robert deniro cameo where he just gets murdered
again
That's money in the bank, baby. He's the sean being of the dc
You know if you told me there were eight movies in a theoretical dcu that came from the joker
When robert deniro gets shot in the head and all of them i'll be like i'll watch it. That sounds funny as fuck
How's it gonna happen this time?
He's like whatever he's introduced in like like a theoretical aquaman he's like hello my name is he was like, oh my god
There he is
He's gonna get shot again
Or he's gonna walk into the propellers of a ship or something
A different desk every time randomly a giraffe falls on him while you're walking down the street
Just these most outlandish crazy nonsensical things
Aquaman hits him with a trident dc. We're not gonna patent it take our ideas go for it
Yeah, you can have that one for free. Go for it. If you do it, that'll be so
Mark gore right and not much else the saving grace. Yes. Is that Joaquin phoenix is very very good here
I'm not necessarily sure that rates is one of his all-time great performances, especially recently
But he clearly came to play and it's all the more impressive when you realize that there actually isn't that much on the page
For him to work with uh jay jay said that as well
What they do this thing with a like he was good which is pretty impressive considering how much he had to work with
Like I can't get that I don't get it either
The actions that Joaquin phoenix took from the script that that was from the script, right?
That's what he acted out. So I can't see why you're saying he's undercooked or underwritten
Is it a criticism of the dialogue because I have heard that about this movie
Some people feel like the dialogue's not particularly polished and my argument would be it's not meant to be like
Real people when they talk to each other
They don't have some insanely clever like monologue to deliver every time, you know
When he gives his speech on tv, it's kind of stumbling and it's a bit awkward and he doesn't always
Nail it as perfectly as you would if you'd gone away and written a script for two weeks beforehand
But that's what it's meant to be. It's meant to be realistic. It's meant to be believable. It's meant to be her real
Person with his issues would express themselves
Like I don't know if i'm you know, I don't know if they're just missing the point on that one
But like that's the way I took it
And that's a good point about the dialogue, but I would also say that
The parts where he says that what did they want him to say? Oh, i'm feeling sad now
But you could see it in his performance, right? It's
It's so no he needs to have a big tattoo on his face. That says damage
Whose idea was that like
I guess they thought it was ironic. They were like clever. Did you hear that?
Jared leto was really upset that they went with walking phoenix because like, you know, he would have nailed this performance. I'm sure
Yeah
Jared leto is one of those actors though. I get they're in the category of like leonada dicaprio and uh walking phoenix and
These people who play all kinds of different characters
And you're like he's probably like I could have done this it's like dude i'm sorry. Okay
I don't know man. That's a big risk
So i'm willing you'll never get away from that, you know
I'm willing to accept it was a combo of the script and the director that ruined it for him
But it's it's been done. It's on screen. It's out there now. That was your joker. I'm sorry
The best role that jarred leto has was in fight club where he gets the shit beaten out of him
That was his best role
But would you pick that over joker and suicides quote what the fuck
Yeah, oh, yeah, the best role. Yeah, of course
Do you like how actors want to reinvent the joke a lot all the time
Like I want to do something he kind of does it this um, and I quite like it
It's very it's very unnerving his laugh in this film
I think the joker will become the hamlet of the app of the hollywood
Crowd like it's going to be the thing that defines your career
Like as an actor everyone's got to play joker eventually. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they're gonna it's gonna be a thing
You know what's um, what's great about Joaquin phoenix when he's doing his laugh is that pretty much every time he does it
You can see from his eyes that he desperately doesn't want to be doing it
Oh, yeah
You know
It's that inflammatory laugh that he's got going on and like most of the time like when he's on the subway with the drunk guys
He's almost crying
Yeah, yeah, he doesn't want to do it. Yeah, you can see he's desperately trying to silence himself
But he can't help himself and it just gives it that brilliant like tragic edge to it in the comedy club
Where he's laughing and he's looking around like this is the funny part. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, like he almost kind of chokes on it doesn't he
Times when he's trying to stifle it and he laughs and he's like you can't breathe properly and stuff
And you just feel like absolutely horrific for him. Oh when he's trying to tell his jokes at first
He just starts laughing. I was like, oh man
It doesn't even matter if your jokes are bad at this point because you just you're fucking up. Oh, no
Yeah
No, but he's underwritten guys
Well, what all we just commented on is almost what you could call uh acting elements, right?
But i'd still the script is so fucking strong. It allows him to have all these detailed moments in there as well
He's not getting it from a vacuum, you know, it's
No, it actually is a I think purposely underwritten because that gives a great actor like walking phoenix the room to breathe
Explore and and he can actually
Inhabit the role not slave to any particular, uh, you know, uh lengthy dialogue exchanges, you know
I mean it really is like okay, dude run with it and he does go for it. Oh, yeah, that's a good point
Yeah, um, this is this what I mean
It's a bizarre comment to me when you you take a movie that's essentially what we'd call a character study
And then make a claim of the character was underwritten. It's like
All of all of the writing is essentially to support his character. So
Okay
Would you like to explore detail what you mean by this because i'm a little bit confused already?
But uh, I don't think jay really went into detail with it when he said it and I don't think movie bob will either because
No, he won't in the middle of this especially recently
But he clearly came to play and it's all the more impressive when you realize that there actually isn't that much on the page
For him to work with joker is a series of scenes and ideas and mood moments borrowed from other movies comic panels and bits
Of media that are meant to remind us
Okay with that criteria
What isn't I was about to say you can make a lot out of what he just said if you borrow
From comic panels different movies great moments and construct someone's like yeah, you could probably make something
Pretty good. Go. This is from taxi driver. Oh, this is from the iliad. Oh, this is from star wars
Oh, this is from the atlas shrugs
Everything is every everything is repurposed something from something else if you want to examine it and look at the scene
Oh, this is like the countertop for that one movie is like fuck off. You could do this with everything
It's the most meaningless thing to say
You know what else you could do
You know, that's how human beings create
I mean, none of us have the power of spontaneous creation every single human act of creation
Is taking other things and putting them back together in interesting ways. I mean look at making their own chimeras and hippographs, you know
What's the saying like we we stand on the shoulders of giants or something? Yep. Yeah
You know what else you could do with comic panels from other media
batman
Shut him up
I just it's such a strange like indictment. It's like you took inspiration from all these things. It's like yeah
Yeah, so it's a supreme movie. Yeah
Well, I imagine all elevated it
Yeah, all five of us would be able to list off probably like five different creators that influenced us before we got started as youtubers
read better media
Move
My inspiration to make good content exactly yeah patrick williams
Mind us of what those were about and rekindle those feelings via transitive property
But it's not really about anything coherent in and of itself
So what do you fear is not about anything coherent in and of itself?
See if he was a good reviewer and he actually put any sort of effort into his videos
He would be like right i'm going to list some of these
Iconic scenes from the movies and i'm going to show you exactly how it matters with other things that have been done before
But that would require effort that's just movie bob channel
His description, you know, yeah
Well, you know what happens right you call them out and then they go dude. It's my opinion
Fuck off
Like but but your opinion your opinion lacks supporting evidence. You just said it
And if you don't want to use if you don't want to try and convince me of your opinion then it's like well
Then why should I care if you don't care?
Why should I?
Yeah
If you just want to use this as a mouthpiece
Not to try and convince anyone or change minds or to show some level of conviction in what you actually think then
Why should I give you the time of day? So just the case you get to this history of level and you're just like yeah
I don't have to justify anything that I say now. I can just say people should believe me
Movie bob is just I want to talk
It's a movie about sticky clouds intended for the mentally
Um
Yeah, I was gonna say by the way
So, you know if someone said like let's just say uh, I i'm just i'm a different person right now
And i'm like, yeah his character like there's nothing in it in the film and you you four like can you
You explain what you mean? I go. Well, it's just my opinion. I'm assuming you can respect that, right?
Well, what do you do then?
Did you just give up?
It's like I don't I don't really respect
The opinion no if it's not justified then I have no reason to respect it
And if I i'm not i'm not concerned with hurting your opinions feelings your opinions feelings
It's like this dab sock with a smiley face on it like
shitty opinion
And you say a bunch of things tends to a sad face
Like what i'm sorry
You're just worthless. Anyway, but yeah, like just you make these claims that
Surely can be provable one way or another with with sufficient evidence that they just give up
And if someone said to me like I don't like debate i'd be like, oh, that's one thing
but like do you actually
Do you are you thinking of references when you make these conclusions or is it literally just something you felt?
You just felt that he was underwritten
And like it's not I just say that it's just you can just say that it's my opinion that your opinions shit
It's like well now what yeah respect my opinion respect my opinion
got him
Good, and then what if you know, what if person b says?
Well, it's in my opinion that he was overwritten and then the third guy's like it's my opinion that he was perfectly balanced
Now what happens all three of them are like I respect her but I respect her I expect your opinion
All right, just have the shortest conversations ever like yeah
Your end point right there. Yeah, that's that's not a conversation. That's just you listen to me talk
It's my opinion. The joker's hair is really blue
Prove me wrong
But it's green doomcock, it's uh, I think it's blue that's my opinion so colors opinion
Respect his opinion
You better colors are just a product of society. It's just a concept
We all live in a color
Property but it's not really about anything coherent in and of itself so
Ah, it's so obvious or fleck feel like a consistent character is quite a feat considering the film isn't giving him anything to work with beyond
He needs to be extremely consistent like a real mentally. Oh person, but
But he is consistent
Yeah, he's consistently ill. Yeah
He's very consistent with his issue
Yeah
The pieces of information we get about him will build as the film progresses. So
I
What an interesting one like it's it's pretty like, you know, we've talked about this
I think it was the last efap
But like if a film is predictable there's nothing wrong with that if it builds nice and logically if everything makes sense
It's like so good
And like I feel like joker, uh could fall into that category, especially when people saying like I predicted the girlfriend wasn't real
It's like, okay
All right
Yeah
There are probably reasons why you were able to predict that because in most films you don't just randomly predict that a person that someone
Meets is a hallucination. They're fabricating
Yeah, and and this is the thing you uh
Full like benefit of the doubt
Someone says like oh he's he's pretty inconsistent and you know, that's surprising even the fact they have given him anything to work with
They'll be like, oh
So you probably got references for that right because that's a pretty interesting conclusion to come to without any
Thought about what happens in the film. So what are they he's gonna move on to like his next point probably
Talk about some of these things
Is quite a feat considering the film isn't giving him anything to work with beyond okay
Now here you're travis bickel now your defense from falling down. Now. You're lester burnham
Now you're the guy from fight club. Okay. Now you're the other guy from fight
What the fuck you're just taking really like vague connections and applying that to yeah
What scenes to each of these people?
Are each of these connections being linked with in how and in what way it's the most tenuous
Like, you know, they're all kind of archetypes of this like wronged man
That's been outcast from society and he's like, yeah that that just means he's a copy of them. It's like
They're vaguely in the same bracket of archetypes
But like what has that got to do with it like at this level of vagueness? It's not even worth drawing a connection
Yeah, like also
Yeah, the fight club reference also is like I love that movie and nothing in joker
Reminds me of fight club
like
Maybe the griminess of it, but like the character no
Well, you know nothing like a hero's journey for anyone be like, oh, this is just like Luke Skywalker
You'd be like is it?
Is it or are you just recognizing someone who goes on a journey that has what you could call similar beats?
Jesus christ, there's more than one version of a character
Yeah
He said archetype like and also
Like also the fact that I think movie bob is stroking his ego a bit like I know these movies that makes me so smart guys
like
Yeah, yeah
I get that feel to authority like it's like
It seems enough for her
He's almost heard from somewhere that like, you know, there's similarities here to taxi driver and he's like, okay
How many how many things can I list that this is similar to you know?
He's really hit upon this idea that like, you know, it's definitely must be a copy of something else
So i'm just gonna find all things that are similar to it. You didn't mention king of comedy there. You should have
That's the one more box to check to make sure he shows up to the i've seen films club, but um
That's not the interesting part. But he doesn't actually yeah
Yeah, any data to support well in what way like in my review I said well, I think it's very
evident that thot thot phillips is working on a very meta level because
uh in the king of comedy
Uh, you know deniro plays a failed comic who is uh, basically abducting this talk show host in order to get on his show
And so by putting deniro in that talk show host
Reversing it then that actually is an interesting
Awareness of a score says he's career and be an intelligent inversion of that of that
You know trope somewhat of a of a neat thing for people who've watched
K
This is completely vacuous this has no content to it and it's boring it's sad
Yeah, you know
Without uh specifics or references. This is no different than me being like well harry potter ripped off lord of the rings
Yeah, you're like how and i'm like, isn't it obvious?
The story of a hero
That has a great weight on her shoulders that nobody necessarily believes in
Rally around it becomes a symbol there's magic in it
Then there's an evil bad guy who was once vanquished
But now he is returning and the good guys have to stop him from gaining his full power
Oh my god, it's pretty much the same movie. It's like, can you actually spot the difference? Just tell me one different thing
Go i'll do it
Hogwarts middle earth
No, it's obviously hogwarts is helm's deep idiot. Jesus
Yeah, because they defend it at some point obviously
And then like I think haggard's house just like ministere haggard's house
That guy back here had to just a complete hard on for the battle of helms deep. He's like why is an end game like that?
Okay, now you're the other guy from fight club
Now at least three different sam rockwell movies now officially fleck is supposed to be a luckless rent a clown and wannabe stand-up comic suffering from
An unnamed but seemingly inspired by pseudo bulb our affect mental illness that causes him to break out laughing at inappropriate times
Struggling through a miserable existence caring for his sick mother and daydreaming of appearing on it
I thought you said that it was like nothing in this you just described like a shit ton about his life
Also, we spent five minutes and ten seconds on
Nothing and then seven seconds on a plot synopsis. So, you know, you weigh it up you be the judge
I don't know. I was gonna say we're all about structure at efab a lot of the time in terms of like how videos are structured
We often review them in that way as well
I would never want to build a video like bob does where it's just rambling until you suddenly vomit the plot in 10 seconds
She's like, all right now time to talk about something else. She's like, what the fuck was that?
What I want to know is why is why is movie bob using, uh porno movie music?
Well, it's actually it's funny than that. I mean, isn't it the theme from the only music I need is the clapping of cheeks
Mount your friend. Oh, it sounds like porn movie. Have you guys ever played mount your friends?
I've lived it and so mount your friends is a game. You play as a bunch of men wearing like
Essentially just just very thin pants sort of thing and you have to connect each other
Um all the way up in like a big tower i'm pretty sure this is the theme music from from that
So like
I don't know what's going on there
Maybe it's like royalty free music and that mount your friends uses it as well. That's the only way I could explain that but
Interesting choice and I could totally imagine that bob likes to play. Just listen to it. Just listen to it as we go
Bob in like thin pants
Really that's anything pants on man. I'm my bar is low for movie bob
Someone said, uh, oh, how do you know this? Well, it's it was a fun game to play with friends, especially with drinks
This fucking insane
Not like in real life
Um also, yes, those are the cold thoughts who would mount their friends in real life. Are they right guys?
Right, right. Oh banana banana hammers. That's I think that's what they're actually called, right banana hammers
That's banana hammers. Yeah, i've heard of closing this
banana
I'm, sorry. I asked by deniro's character in a crime written 1980s gotham city worry crippling garbage strike is inspired tone death billionaire thomas
Wayne to run for mayor on and only I can fix it because i'm rich platform
But when arthur loses his cool and murders a trio of wall street types who were bullying him on this I wouldn't say he lost
his cool
It was self-defense
They weren't just bullying him. They weren't beating him to death
Yeah, yeah
It was a desperate moment. It's not like you you could argue that like when he executed the third guy, you know
That was yeah that way. Yeah. Yeah, that's calculated
That was absolutely unnecessary
But you know like we're watching this play out and that's still a point in the film where you're like, all right
Go arthur
And then there's that last guy and we're like, oh arthur. No. Yeah, we're like, oh, I don't know about that
Oh, no. No, that's not how this works. But then he lets the midget go and you're like, yay arthur
Yeah
the hero of the people
I will be your new god
Murders a trio of wall street types who were bullying him on the subway
It creates an urban legend of killer clown vigilante stalking gotham's wealthy one percent that spawns a clown mass class conscious protest
Movement that begins to engulf the entire city at the same time dark revelations about his own path possibly involving thomas wayne himself
push arthur over the edge and toward adopting the mantle of the joker to
Continue adopting the mantle of the joker. Basically. It's not really a movie. That's an origin story bob. So yeah
So we simultaneously have tyt talking about his incredible master plans and then
We have movie bob talking about how there is no master plan and he just does whatever
Is he like, I think when something's really good and you don't see that it's good
A lot of the times there will be inconsistent commentary on why it's not good if it is good
Seem to go is bob confused as to there seems to be like an element he's missing because he he was summarizing it
And then he sort of trailed off and i'm like, wait, where did you get lost happened?
Joker to and also I don't get continue adopting the mantle of the joker. Basically, it's not
Being something that he's turned into yeah
It definitely thinks it has several points and proudly shows this up
Well before we get to the moment of the joker literally and metatextually lecturing the audience
What the fuck does metatextually mean like he's talking to the audience
Like a gator guys, I know meta
I have genuinely never heard that word in my life. That's because you're a stupid normal man. You're not a big
I have an ascending to movie bobs like intellectual powerhouse level
One day one year older you'll understand when you're older and fatter you'll understand exactly what that means
You have to gain weight if you gain weight that means your brain gets bigger, too
Like uh, so instead of just saying like
You know it spoke to the audience like that line those lines or joker himself
Arthur spoke to the audience. He says like the lines are addressing gotham at metatextually
They're just like did you why did you need that word? Did you just want to say that word?
What was the other one? He says a lot like metanarrative. That's another one. He says yeah
adjacent metanarratives
Point though. It definitely thinks it has several points and proudly shows this up
Well before we get to the moment of the joker literally and metatextually
Lecturing the audience about the true function of comedy and the fact that society the true function of comedy
What is the true function of comedy?
Is he is he fastened on to that one line about people being the gatekeepers of comedy?
Like if that's is that's what he took from arthur's speech on on the talk show
He is missed about 90 of what he said. Well movie bob is infamous for trying to do funny
Well, we literally the fucking beginning of this video was a nightmare
One half a minute joke
We got evidence for that unlike bob here. So
You have no bob. Don't say don't say it as if you're talking to yourself before you finish the draft
Like this is the final cut that's going to be in your video put a little bit of fucking
You know effort into it. Yeah, just a wee bit
Textually lecturing the audience about the true function of comedy and the fact that society
We live in one of those. Did you know being truly to blame for him being him?
Which frustratingly isn't even supported by the text of the plot. In fact, if joker does oh, wait, wait boss here
Listen to this part guys because this part is just
So good. Just just listen to this. What did you say wasn't supported by the text of the plot?
the message of the joker
Being totally fucking
We basically didn't say that also made into the joker, which of course it it does
Uh, I I pointed that out earlier in this very video
So, uh, maybe if he watches this he'll learn something
I don't know i'm trying to crack his formula because he speaks and read all the sentences
And so you try to pick a beginning and end. You know what I mean?
Well, bob just he doesn't judge movies based on their quality. He judges them based on whether or not he likes the message
Which yeah
Being truly to blame for him being him which frustratingly isn't even supported by the text of the plot
in fact
If joker does when you say text of the plot, do you mean literally like the script the text he means the content of the movie
A normal person would say the plot because he's a fucking massive. He says the text of the plot
because text implies
Writing well, you know how people talk about subtext that obviously there has to be a text for subtext
So the text is just what happens basically
That's the that's the entire through line of the movie though, isn't it surely like in this case
It's like a guy who gets ignored by society
He doesn't get any of the help that he needs a vulnerable man who ultimately gets pushed to breaking point and snaps
That's the entire text of the film. That's his character arc
And he's saying that doesn't support him becoming joker like
It's not complicated it really doesn't make that
Everyone gets it like how does every normie gets this film and they they love it
This is being universally praised by people whose opinions matter basically
Like how do critics just I just don't get it like remember reminder to everybody batwoman is rated higher by critics than joker
That's a reminder
Because it's smashing the patriarchy. Don't you understand?
There's so much more at stake frustratingly isn't even supported by the text of the plot
in fact
If joker does have a coherent thematic or moral arc to call its own it it doesn't but if it did
It would boil down to flex journey of self-actualization through realizing that while society can be tough
The real cause of all of your problems is probably a one but
What?
Wait, wait, let him finish. Let him finish. Let him finish. How come?
What?
Let him finish rags. Let him finish. This is gonna build up to something
All right, and feel it doing this doing this for you
That's because this is a movie that's only constructed to confer a sense of meaningfulness and depth on it
So did you get that? Did you get that guys? Hey translate for me. What do you just say?
Everything that caused arthur to snap was because of a girl. That's what movie bob
Is that legit what he said? Uh, yes, I think we missed the word that he said right there
Probably a woman's that's what he said. We're replaying this. We're doing it. We're going back
It doesn't but if it did it would boil down to flex journey of self-actualization through realizing that while society can be tough
The real cause of all of your problems is probably a one but because this is a movie that's only constructed
I am just I am baffled. I am absolutely at a loss
Completely. There's a nine. We don't even groundless. No, no evidence is supported
Did like people who review this movie like watch it?
I don't think so. It's been like I don't know if this is happening on efel before but like my mouth is just open
It's like he's an alien speaking some inner galactic language I don't understand
I
How could you even begin to think that
Like I think what he's trying to say like let's give bob some some some like five percent credit
like
The the thing that caught the thing that made joker snap the thing that made joker who he is was
The mother who lied to him, but I think that's just if anything
That's like the tipping point
Yeah, it's just another thing
Yeah, another brick in the wall one might say
She's a character. She's not just woman
It's like yeah, she has
What why do they like black people and women have to be fucking perfect?
Like you can't have a minority
You can't have a female do anything bad or anything nefarious or mess up in any way because if you say that
Well, that means you're trying to make some
Subtextual meta narrative such and such about femininity or minorities or you can't like
What if I told you bad people can be women and men? What if anyone could be shit?
That's not possible the the star wars movies have taught me that this is insane
Um, yeah, I was gonna say mr. Doomcock. Do you do you require an exit of sorts?
Ah, I must depart here soon, but I just wanted to say I uh, appreciate it on that bombshell
You chose a great time to leave
Yeah, don't you want to say anything? He's like nope i'm done. That was it
I see that bob is not going to enlighten me in any way
And so I'd prefer to hit the bottle before I have the inquisition later
Um, well, you know while you're here, would you like to tell the audience a little bit about what you're doing on your channel?
And why they should subscribe?
Yes, sir. Uh, I am
basically attempting to fight for our
Preservation of our modern myths and our cultural heritage. I view
Things like star wars and star trek is doctor who and doctor who is not disposable
Uh, you know commodities like the corporations think of them
I think of them as our modern equivalent of myths, you know
It's our common language that unites us across generations and i'm sick and tired of seeing it trashed
and uh, so I analyze these things and and uh and try to fight to spread awareness about this issue and
Uh, my youtube channel is youtube.com slash overlord dvd dvd stands for dictor van doomcock trying to defeat that
Youtube algorithm that probably wouldn't take favorably to doomcock in the title. Uh, so yeah, please
Go and subscribe to overlord dvd. I would very much appreciate it. The link is in the description and in the chat just
Give the old subscription. You're not going to regret a time of certainty and yeah, it's been great having you here, man
A good three hours pretty much
Um, yes, sir. Thank you. Even though it's probably a nightmare watching a bunch of people basically not watch this film
Oh my god
But thank you for giving me a platform to air my uh, my views on this thing and you know
It was really it's it's very nice to have some intelligent discussion with some intelligent gentlemen, and uh, I appreciate it very much
Hope we can do it again
All right. Well, thanks, man
Thank you guys have a have a good rest of your day and
Watch out for women ruining your life
Oh because of course that that's the only reason to go on a on a rampage. Absolutely
He's an incel. That's why so
obviously
That's why that's why bob said it. I think one of my commenters said it but you think bob's getting regularly laid
Of course, look at that massive chad
Well, he's disjointed enough I suppose
Well, thank you guys i'll see you next time. Yeah, see you man. Yeah. Yeah. Good one. Have a good one
Um to be fair does it really hurt to have spare chins in case something happens to the first one or two
something happened
Um, I I know in chat scampoli said
uh
Mocking someone purely based on their looks it makes molar no better than the people he mocks
How have we only been attacking?
Yeah, pretty sure that's just icing on the cake, which is not something he should have more of and by the way
I'm I i'm not against anyone being insulted throwing insults because of their looks like you go for it
We can't make rules on what you're you're allowed to make fun of there can't be like a series of three or four things
It's like yeah free rein, but preferably can you make the jokes good that's all about full like well constructed
It's entertaining
Yeah to make fun of his appearance quite frankly
But also at the same time like we've been making it complete. We've been baffled by his commentary
Like we've been doing this for hours
He's soggled still watching this is it because he i'm pretty sure he's responded to movie bob before isn't he?
Um, yeah, he did. I know with like gamergate stuff. I don't know when the last time
He did was
And movie bob really is the just just the the gift that keeps on giving he's like syphilis
Um, which we don't have to worry about it
I like how chatter see behalf and half i'm like bring him on bring him on. Oh, he's terrible. Bring him on
Oh, he's terrible
It's like well
Um, but yeah, uh, how long have we got the uh, both of you you folks now? Do you reckon?
Well, I I will try and see at the end of this video I think and then i'll probably um, all right turn in after that
I think I have an r or so
An hour an hour you see
This video will be taken ages mate is
I can um, I could bring on das bullshit. He's around just to have a five team again. Uh, what'd you reckon right?
Well, I think our combined weight would probably equal movie bob so that seems fair to me
Oh, i'm not supposed to do that me that is we need everyone do you know who I am
Do you know who I am so we have a fucking poll to see if people let's people say bring sargot on what you reckon ranks
Yeah, ask him. Why not bring him on
Weekend warrior. What do you think?
I think we should pick jay first. Yeah, and then you've been pre-kicked
They often pick jay first. Oh, yeah
Step one run from the police
Yeah
Yeah, it's like get sargon kick no, it's like the chat is lovely the chat is bipolar if you take it as one person
Do it. No do it
A saga said anything because you might not even be free
Oh, hang on. Yeah
Have a look see
This is efap your consent is not required
It would see yeah, see I did I predicted it well he's he is busy i'm afraid
Oh, that's unfortunate. Um
Yeah, i'll uh
Throw on mr. Dass or mr. Bull or mr. Shit. It really depends on which one you want to go with
Mr. Shit, we can't we can't get two mr. Shits in this efap
I can't imagine movie bob shits. Oh why?
Colossal
Hello
We've been watching some really good joker reviews I heard you hated the film
Um
Where'd you hear that from you?
Yesterday you said i'm gonna trick everybody into thinking I like it on when i'm live and I was like, oh you shouldn't lie to people
What do you think of the film?
I I I hated it because um, i'm a racist and um, I see nothing but skin color
And therefore it's bad on that basis alone
Of course, of course, uh, there is a link to the watch together. Uh, we uh, we've we've got another two minutes of movie bob left
So this could be a we're looking at a potential five minutes of coverage or two hours. You really don't know
It's been rough so far
even
Getting there. Uh, let me see if we're singing you'll come over and spell run
Okay, uh six thirty three
Yes, all of your problems is probably a one but because this is a movie that's only constructed to confer a sense
Right, of course we should probably let's roll this back in case you haven't seen this I guess I just got here come on
Oh
If joker does have a cohesity
It was a full quote call its own it it doesn't but if it did it would boil down to flex journey of
Self-actualization through realizing that while society can be tough the real cause of all of your problems is probably a one
But because this is a movie that's only constructed to confer a sense of meaningfulness and depth on its subject by borrowing the sense
Memory of meaning and depth from other more familiar things. Can you see his green screen fucking up above the joker's eye?
Oh, no, I see the green screen fucking up on the top of his head. Oh, well, it kind of looks green
Yeah, also your mic is doing the thing
Oh wait, i'll rejoin but uh just above joker's eyebrow
There's this line of pixels that have limited out because he's got to be to do with his tree
That's probably where the top of his door was. Yeah. Yeah
You told me that movie bob's been doing this for 30 years and I wouldn't believe you
50 years it feels like
The problems is probably a woman. Oh, that's because this is a movie that's only constructed to confer a sense of meaningfulness and depth
What's funny about it is that he could just crop it out. Bob just cropped it out. You don't need it
Exactly. He could just crop out the area around the door and problem solved
Well, the problem is bob himself up requires quite a bit of space on screen
So he doesn't he doesn't have that much to play with otherwise you want to crop anything out
More familiar things it's narrative and thematic structure all
thematic
thematic
thematic
Sense memory of meaning and depth from other more familiar things. It's narrative and thematic structure all over the map
Brilliant jump cuts though
Gotham class warfare uprising don't ultimately have anything to do with or say about each other splitting his authority figure
Fixations between deniero's talk show guy and thomas wayne don't add up to anything other than fitting in more batman stuff. No
What?
What?
no, he
He needs the authority because people get killed and murdered
Yeah
And he's not like randomly
Oh my god, I forgot how much I hated this
Massive citywide riots don't add anything. It's like no, no, no. Those are the bad things
Like that's the result there is like why do you think that the bad riots in the city that that's the result?
Those are bad bob. I know you're fucking antifa lover
But jesus christ riots in the streets by violent protesters. That's a bad. We don't want that. That's a no good
I just fucking hell if someone like presents this as a perspective on joker. The first question I have is like
So you've seen the movie?
Yeah
And they're like, yeah, and i'm like
Are you sure?
amounts to nothing like just once did you fall asleep? Did you take a bathroom break?
At least this movie is bringing out a lot more focus on just accuracy. It's like, yeah, please pay attention
Joe guy and thomas wayne don't add up to anything other than fitting in more batman stuff and leaves both subplots underdeveloped
zazzy beat
Yeah, I think
Yeah, bob was talking about authority figures
And how joker is fixated on those guys, but that just shows how bob misses
Those guys, but that just shows how bob missed the point of those authority figures because joker is looking up to them
because he needs guidance
That's the point like did he miss the intro where where joker
imagines
Like the talk show the robert de niro being like I would want a son like i'd give it all up for a son
Like you yeah
He's not an authority figure. He's just a person who
He looks up to in some way and that's going to care about him. I was going to take all this off him
Yeah, yeah, he's definitely he's got the whole sequence of like if only these certain things happen, everything will be okay
And what he's thinking of is I was in that audience and I just like said something
He might like put the spotlight on me and then ask me to come out
Then like we could be friends
It's very um again
And this is not this is not me saying it's a rip-off
But king of comedy does a similar thing where you see inside his head how he thinks things goes and then and then how he like
Uh develops them in his head
Versus what actually happens in reality?
And um again one film doing that does not mean every other film cannot do it anymore
It's once the thing once the thing is done once then no other film can ever do it ever again
Nor anything even similar to it ever again
embarrassing when people
Lame us a rip-off
Just because it shares an element. It's like you gotta do better than this
That's a really frustrating thing for me, too
It's like i'll see a lot of these newer films and i'll really enjoy them
But then you get these other people that are like, oh well, it was just like this movie and just like that movie
Therefore it's bad. I'm like fuck. I can't enjoy anything because everything has done been done before it's like come on. Jesus
Everything's been done before i'm tired
It's conclusion
What once the epic of gilgamesh came out a bajillion years ago, then ever is like no more no star wars
Sorry, no star wars because the epic of gilgamesh came out 12 bajillion years ago
Such frustrating critique I hate it so much
Back to bob tween deniero's talk show guys
I hate it so much add up to anything other than fitting in more batman stuff and leaves both subplots underdeveloped
Zazie beets gets utterly wasted on a character who makes no sense other than to set up a reveal that will be absolutely no
No
All of the scenes she's in serve purposes
This is this is why this film is so well constructed for every frame
It's achieving more than just one thing there's more than one thing going on establishing that she's at these places is one thing
Right is for us to be like, oh she actually turns up to these things or if you're calling the twist already
It's that he's imagining her but like I was talking to rags about this. Do you remember when she says, um
Those guys probably deserved it or whatever
When she sees the newspaper it's like so if she's like i'm glad they i'm glad that they did it or something
She's validating and justifying to him
That what he did was right which is really himself telling himself that he's trying to convince himself and trying to reassure himself
That what you did was the right thing regardless of what the papers say
That that whole scene with the newspaper that's clearly him looking back on what he did he's like, hmm
Well, you know just having to address the fact that yeah, you killed three people and to be like
There's just a bunch of suits where it shows that she's there. That's all it does
It's like there's other stuff going on man
Lots of other stuff like the seat of the hospital the fact that these are all moments
Where he desperately wants someone to support him dealing with his dying mother
Trying comedy for the first time and stand up like it's so much more meaningful than just going oh, fuck it
She's not even real. So whatever
Shocking to anyone in the audience who hasn't seen a movie before and even its most sincere saving grace apart from phoenix's performance
The truly excellent 1980s urban decay production design ends up betraying the shallowness of its inception despite all the shallowness of its inception
I
Really sick of the run-on sentences. It's also the way it's the complicated thing
Betrays the shallowness of its inception. What the fuck? I think he's even going to explain why
I think it's
referencing
Reinforcing his point that since joker copied stuff
He's trying too hard. So it's shallow. I think that's what he's saying
Matt it's weird because if of all the things i'd call joker shallow isn't anywhere close to the list
If I if I was to like really try and break this down
So like the inception of the city being the way it is
So like how it how it began how that started it's like the shallowness of that
Oh, so it's like arbitrary like it was placed upon itself in a way that wasn't very believable
so he's saying like the talent in how it was created
gives away how much it was
False nothing. Is that where he's going with it? That's the best I can come up with
By the way, i'm pretty sure that's a good to help quote too
Oh, I gotta have to get the words
Shallowness of its inception movie before and even its most sincere saving grace apart from phoenix's performance
The truly excellent 1980s urban decay production design ends up betraying the shallowness of its inception
Despite all the effort in recreating the late 70s early 80s
Scorsese new york aesthetic for gotham joker's heavy-handed political illusions are all about occupying anonymous
99% classism acts all pointed straight. It's not political bob
It's explicitly about all kinds of different things that may or may not be completely contradictory to one another's messages
Like is it occupy occupy is it anonymous is it what like how many groups is it is it
Antifa is it who what who is it?
How many films did he name that this film rips off like seven?
some shit
It's just like did it no
How many films do you have to rip off before you're not ripping off anybody really?
You just rip them all off
You're ripping off everything
This painting has blue on it. But fuck we've seen that before we have we have we've seen blue before in that film blue
remember that remember that film
I'm ripping off blue look at the blue at his eye on his eye rather the the makeup
That's where do you think you got that from from blue the 1912 film starring?
John blue spelled blu and you has an umlaut thing over it. I feel like john blue deserve the Oscar, but whatever
I've gotten these are all about occupying anonymous 99 classism acts all pointed straight at 2019
And one of the major plot points involves it was made in 2019 essentially going viral which was in no way a thing 30 years ago
In other words, it doesn't make the movie bad. What I mean weird spread
What about think about all of the stuff from the zodiac killer to the exorcist to every culturally significant thing that gets star wars
Every culturally significant thing that came out before the internet
Just couldn't like we had newspapers and we had tv hosts also wood and mouth was a thing
And radio radio shows people weren't barbarians before the internet was created
Well, they established radio in this in this tv's newspapers. There are ways in which people learn the things
What a proper tenero plays a tv. Don't show
No, I mean that's a ridiculous notion that they can't yeah that the things can't go viral before the internet
You remember um, you remember the uh joke i've fallen and I can't get up
Yeah life alert
That was a big fat viral joke throughout radio and television way back in the 90s
I remember that that was like the very first meme I could possibly think of and the internet was total like
It was practically just starting out
And and let's say that let's say that it's a the the viral thing came from now that doesn't make the movie bad
necessarily, doesn't it
No, it doesn't
Yeah, exactly. It's a stupid it happened because no internet. That's that's that's long
Late and dumb
Well, he's he's saying like it's spread to the degree things spread these days in terms of like wildfire
But what it's in a city. I was gonna say what is the spread?
Well, the city are aware of it and it's like why wouldn't they be the minutes took place in the city?
It's in the newspapers
If you're if you're operating on the premise as well or the theory that uh, this is all in his head
There's nothing to say that this even is taking place in the 1980s
You could be in the present day imagining this
And so he's applying what he knows about how things spread so easily and quickly in our world
To that context because it's his delusion
Any of these things could be true because you don't know you've got an unreliable narrator in arthur
I mean, I do agree with that. But if we were to frame this as
If he's if his criticism is framed within the idea that this is
The reality and I still think he's wrong because um
Things spread, uh was kind of my point
Remember we were talking about the train earlier when he's on the train with all the rich people going to wade manner
uh, there's like four guys with newspapers and all four newspapers read this like this
Epic news about the three murders like it's like
The town went crazy about it because it was a big deal three people were shot dead on a train
That's that's a lot
It's just that's that's this big this big news
Yeah, especially why well to do
You know rich elite types. Yeah, who've been in like the public eye to a degree like what?
Yeah, when a homeless person's murdered no one gives a shit
Singapore will save us
Hello hello, what's happening I switched I switched us to singapore. We're okay. Uh, ha ha singapore
Bay singapore. What do you say once again singapore?
What did I say? Yeah, because it was that's how I was like, you know, it's like yeah when when celebrities die
Everyone knows about it. So the fact that three wealthy
High status individuals whose family probably have great influence when they get murdered
Yeah, obviously you're going to make a huge stink about it and the you're going to get interviews and the paper is going to be
Talking about it
Like this that's not unusual at all. It would be unusual if it wasn't the case
I
Pointed straight at 2019 and one of the major plot points involves one of arthur's stand-up routines essentially going viral
Which was in no way a thing 30 years ago. In other words, it has no no
Of course they could things could absolutely go viral not in the same way
It was absolutely 30 years ago. It depends on what timeline we're picking because 30 years ago is 90s
and somebody else in the chat brought up where they're saying they're saying he's referring to the clip and the thing is like
Yeah, we know
Oh, well, uh
Well, what we were talking about actually kind of addressed other criticisms people have had anyway, but he's still wrong
Because there are literal shows based after this by the time we hit the 90s
Um at some point now you've been framed which is the one I know that started in the 1990s. So
or at least uh
What's the american one called?
Candid camera. No america's funniest home videos. Is that it?
With
89 no, that was bob
Tom burger on was the the later host
Yeah, bob saggett was the starter
so yeah, if
If he's saying up to 30 years ago, there wasn't
The thing it was but if he's gonna say like the specific timeline in this movie
I'm not even sure like even if it were true, even if that had never been done before
What stops it from being done exactly?
Is it just a sense of morality like like like murray wouldn't want to do that to somebody what stops them from doing it?
If you agree in the stand-up comedy club
That all of like you you can deliver it for free
You can get your audience
But it'll be taped and we can do with whatever we want with that tape do you agree like they have to sign something?
We don't know that that happened. I'm just saying that if that all goes ahead
Then what makes a lot of sense that a comedy club would tape their stuff and like doesn't murray at one point say something like
Some people think it's easy to do what I do
and um
Like the idea is that he runs a show where he's the comedian
And so it would make some sense to play tape a tape of like one of the worst performances
He's ever seen as a comedian just to get some laughs. Okay. Is the argument that it's just too immoral?
Maybe or is his argument that it's not technologically possible for things to go viral
Well, I think is I think as well
He's talking about how how they get the feedback on how popular it is because in the movie murray's like oh people have been going nuts
Over this living cool in India since we showed it. I guess so it would have to be full calling in
It's not like there's going to be a that can happen. Why can't that happen?
That could happen. Yeah
I think that's the that's the criticism of movie bob here. He's just he's like saying well
He's like saying well if there's not social media, then you can't learn anything about you know
How people are feeling about anything. There's no feedback. There's nothing
And yeah, I don't know man
Like if I was a big fan of the murray show
And uh, he played that clip and someone was like wouldn't it be cool if he came on to the show be like, yeah
Go for it. I mean, isn't that kind of what happens on efab every once in a while?
We cover someone's video and they want to come on
It's like yeah, go for it not in the same way
That's like we want to humiliate them
But literally just to explore their ideas because that's the point of efab but with the comedian show
He's poking fun at him and all arthur has to do
Let's just say it's a perfect world where he was just a bad comic and then he prepares himself to come on stage
He actually impresses the crowd with some jokes like that would have kick started his career potentially
He could have gone multiple ways and it could have been seen as like a really good move by murray to give this guy a chance
You know, but it didn't go that way because fucking other shit was happening in the film
Too bad
I don't know. I I didn't have much trouble believing that that could and did happen. No problem at all
In other words, this is an age where everything from gilligan's island to the carol burnett show was a big popular
Cultural icon that everyone knew about so it doesn't surprise me at all
Has no meaningful or important connection to the era
It's trying so hard to take place in other than to remind you that you're supposed to be thinking about are you supposed to be
Thinking about taxi driver. No
Because i've never seen taxi driver. I've never even seen taxi driver
And I got everything the film was trying to say so what now but how how did I get everything?
If I have no idea about taxi driver like as a film or what it's about or anything
Like what then now what?
I guess you would probably argue that you're unfortunate that you haven't seen
The good work you've seen the copycat
Yeah, take place in other than to remind you that you're supposed to be thinking about taxi driver
You know guys I wanted this to be good. Is that what the film's trying to do say? Hey remember taxi driver think about that
I guess
Yeah, is he?
Isn't the point of like, you know
Stealing ideas from other movies is that your audience isn't really meant to know that you've done it
Or you like the idea that you're going to have a different take on it
Well, yeah, the fact that he hired robert daddy not robert engineer robert deniro robert deniro to be a show host
To me it's just like well, this is blatantly a reference
Yeah
And here's the thing you could use something and make it your own and I think thod phillips has done that here very masterfully
So people in chat have said several times parents apparently stuckman mentions taxi driver a million times his reviews
Like of course he does. He doesn't understand
I've seen taxi driver guys
Yeah, I don't want to oh man, I don't want to be too hard on chris why
Because he's nice. Is that it? Are you are you sad? Is does he make sad? Are you sad for him?
Yeah, i'm sad man like like five
I'm sure chris tuckman is a very nice man
I do think that I just don't want to be random
I think the the thing you commented on mauler where he was like, we should be nicer to movies
That was a weird thing to say though
I think yeah, you remember that right? Like he he made a tweet about we should be kinder to to movies. We should
We wouldn't have it we'd be out of a job if not for people like ryan johnson making movies
You should respect them for that. I guess. Yeah, I didn't do anything until the last jedi came out. Yeah
Yeah, y'all movies have okay fine fine rags if all films games
Topics if you couldn't speak if it wasn't for the english language. No, if it wasn't for language in general or communication
What would you be doing? Hmm? You should respect those who created it. I just be a striper
Or alternatively, I just oh, I don't know i'd go to sherman williams and be a striper. I don't know
Striper striper no striping
You
Thinking about taxi drivers
You know guys I wanted this to be good too because if we're going to have so many of these
People need to be able to go outside the box and do different mold breaking stuff
But this isn't it joker is a shallow movie playing it being it isn't a basic movie that thinks it's complex
And not even a particularly shocking or violent or weird or transgressive enough one to be outraged about in any meaningful way
It has nothing much to say and yet it won't shut up
Reminds me someone I know
Our central theme has been found that you have nothing to say but you won't stop talking
From a man who the first quarter of his review was a shitty joke intro
Yeah, the first half was just stuff hard enough to understand his next level humor
Yeah, sorry for being bob's metatextual punch line
You see bob's dialogue in the subtext spoke to us on a metatextual level and we yeah
We engaged in laughter
You have to say it like that to sound more pretentious
Oh
Has nothing much to say and yet it won't shut up
Four out of ten mostly for Joaquin Phoenix. Oh, look at that. Yeah, I guess i'll go move into the panic room
Oh
Did I just here hang on? I think I know what just happened. This is totally a me thing. Give me a sec
Yeah, and yet it won't shut up
Four out of ten mostly for Joaquin Phoenix. Okay. Yeah, I imagine I guess i'll go move into the panic room
Why would you want to put your name on that?
Like echo or something. I thought oh you edited it and you wrote it
Oh, no, those were the worst parts of this video was the writing and editing. Oh, no
Bob no, it just says all of the parts by bob
Well
That was that there there you have it guys the best take on joker on the internet
You nailed it. Bob shipment. I like how he edited though that that line because it just perfectly sums up his whole video
Thank you, bob, i'm sure i'm sure those who are subscribed
Yahtzee's content really enjoy your videos
You're like, oh, yay, oh the escapist released a movie. Oh
It's bob it's bob it's bob
I hate him
So much bob chinman
Chinman bob
He's not listen he's not as intelligent as he thinks he is okay, he's more intelligent
Robert thinks he is
intellect
mental text
Like his ike is so high it's off the universe. It's like on a metal level. That's that's how smart he is guys
Yeah, i don't know if this is just he's an example of what happens if you just spend too long reviewing movies
And you kind of run out of things to see
Yeah
It's just what he feels like, you know
He's just kind of phoning it in now and he doesn't care that much
I think you might be in some trouble if you can only see movies as other movies
You cannot see what's in them anymore. You can only see what you've seen before. It's like, uh, oh, yeah
Well, you're not normal yet anymore
I
I've seen king of comedy and taxi driver. I suddenly was able to
Somehow able to uh survive watching joker. I don't know how I did it
I don't know how I did it
But um, yeah, that's the end of that video. So I suppose would would rinker and warrior. Do you guys want to uh,
Sign out in your own respective ways
Yeah, i'll probably finish up. All right, you guys decide between yourselves who goes first
All right, go ahead drinker. Let's do it alphabetically like
Yeah, that's fine movie tell tell people why they should subscribe
your channel
I have a good old time reviewing movies and um, I like to
Contrast newer movies which are generally a bit shitty apart from things like joker
Um, and i'll compare them to older things which they are usually trying to ape and um and replicate
like taxi driver
Yeah, like taxi driver like king of comedy
And i'll do lots of like the ethical analysis
Uh in my reviews, um, but no I usually have a good time, um tearing down shitty stuff
And every every so often i'll come across a little gem that I like to um, let people know about so
That's pretty much what I do on my channel
I mean the epa board is probably going to get to know you relatively well at this point
Because we've been on quite a few episodes now, but if anybody has never seen this guy before
Follow the link subscribe check out the videos. It's the nicest thing to do in the world
It's the normal thing to do looks at movies how he drinks. It's the metatextual thing to do
Yep
Do I do I have to finish with go away now or do it?
Do the thing
Do it
All right, cool. Well, that's all i've got for today. So go away now
Have a good one drinker. He's just aping off that guy on youtube. Yeah, you're like the drinker guy. Thank you chips
Yeah
See you later chips. Bye
Take care. Oh, oh, there you go. Oh
So he died so weekday warrior. What's uh, what's your thing? Yeah, it's it's the weekday here
All right weekday warlord gonna get the suit and tie gonna get back to work weekday warlord. What? Yeah
Yeah, that's my that's my fight. That's my monday to friday rags weekday warlord. That's me
I like it
But if you haven't watched critical drinker yet, you should watch his video on midsomar. That was really good
I'm supposed to be promoting your own channel. You fool
Don't be such a cuck
If you're gonna watch my channel guys watch my take on joker, it is better than movie bobs
I believe it's better movie bobs. Hey, I can get
It was the link will be on the description unless mauler fucked that up for some reason
Why would I ever not like I hate you personally with a vengeance? Why do you hate me?
Why do you hate me mauler? I'll tell you that spoils it that's gonna happen in the the end of the saga
What what what saga is that efap 763 the last episode i'm gonna reveal why I hate you
Season 666. Oh, yeah. Oh, that'll be a special one
Rags don't make plans for the 666 episode
Yeah, oh damn. Well quinton reviews beyond that time
Goodly, oh
Yeah, oh, wait. I was supposed to
I think
Wait, i'm supposed to be talking about my channel. Oh, yes
Yeah, yeah, my channel is about talking about movies and games. I like or dislike
If you want some catharsis some emotional release
Then you should watch my channel and have some fun. Talk about your incredible paint drawings. Yeah
My paint drawings are awesome. They're better than bob's face. So
You can watch them
So
Yeah, also mauler it's a good point your ace that the green screen is like morphing around bob jesus christ
It's like he has a gravitational pull. Yeah, it's like it's like he's becoming the joker
Also the hair you remember in your q&a video someone asked that you collab with critical drinker and you said maybe in the future
Here it is guys
That that one that one comment has now gotten his wish a suit. Sorry their wish. I didn't mean to i'm so sorry
Yeah, did you just assume your gender white man?
No, i'm an orange man
Oh, right
Orange man in the gas mask. Hey, have you played code vane mauler? Not yet. You kind of
You remind me of the vampires
Yeah
You're like, yeah, no, sorry. I'm just gonna segue a little bit like the vampires there wear gas masks
And you kind of you're kind of wearing one. Oh, there you go. You'll be like, did you place it after code vane?
It'll be like uh, yeah
And that's it guys I I want to thank you for having me on this wonderful efap no problem
Thank you for having me. I'm glad you enjoyed cinema roberto
Yes, film robert is always great
always a pleasure always a pleasure
rags mauler
A male commander
I I think the alcohol is getting to me and i'm going to work. Thanks guys. Thanks a lot enough to drink
Yes, I am. I am 18 years old rags. Oh
Belle commander if he if he sees this he's gonna find that fucking hilarious. That's that's bullshit
Oh my oh that's bullshit my bad bro, i'm sorry i'm so sorry, bro
That's bullshit i'm i'm very sorry the
That's bullshit. Do you want to promote your youtube channel at this point so that I am not so embarrassed?
No
He wants to further and develop the embarrassment you're experiencing
Okay, let's just pile on like movie bob's words, you know
Have you been embarrassed on a meta narrative level?
No on a meta universal level smaller
Like what did he say earlier like meta congruent or whatever metatextral
Metatextual jesus. I know words
Do you i'm smarter than you?
Jealous because he knows all of the words
Yeah, take that not metal commander
How do you feel?
With a beige pepe metal commander i'm so sorry
All right, yeah, i'm sorry that's bullshit wait, I have to go I have to apologize to the room but because you accidentally stepped on it
Guys this was fun. I really had a good time. Thanks for having me. No problem. We should see you around, sir
Catch you on the next one. Little pimp. See you later. Bye. Bye
Bye
What a nid am I right?
Look at me. I like film bob like I like film bobs. I like film robert
Like people like you gotta bring on someone who loves film robin. We're like do we have to?
All right, man, who would first off who would publicly state that they love film robert?
Well, I guess we found him publicly
laud the praises of
Film robert if someone was new to efap and they weren't a fan of patrick williams already and then they saw this episode
They'd be like, of course patrick williams is like, okay with this
Awful reviewers like yep makes sense
Sad reality we live in but one that we have to accept
Also, i'm pouring in no, I'm just gonna hallucinate my my hot black girlfriend
Women do cause all problems as the joker film tries to tell us tries to teach us
I know all my problems are because of a woman because if it wasn't for my mom, I wouldn't have been born
I wouldn't have had problems. So there you go. That makes sense to me
but yes
Last on the docket for today
And it's not to say that we won't do another joker podcast because there's plenty to go over
Lots of hot takes it's one of them. It's like the captain marvel but good, you know where people will talk about it
It's actually you know, but um one that everybody was very interested in us covering
and uh, this should be this should go smoothly I think because
It's like a casual conversation, but it's um
mr angry joe, um
A lot of people were recommending that we check out the take he's experienced a bit of a let's say downpour of downvotes
On this video and it's the interesting thing is it's not really to do with him
It's his guest who's going to offer criticisms for the film and we are going to explore them
Uh, yeah, I was skimming the comments apparently it's the guy in the middle that's gotten really under people's skin
So yeah, he pissed everyone off
We're gonna see why it's gonna be fun. Come on my big youtube channel. It'll be great
We'll talk about movies. You'll have a great time. I think comments hate them
Thousands of people think you're a piece of shit now, isn't he like in all of the reviews?
He's not like new or anything. Is he or is he? I don't know. Yeah, is it the big guy the dell dude
No, no, no, it's a different guy in the middle. Um
Well, I say in the middle because I just seen already probably people don't know alan's in the middle
I think alan or alex
Is his name actually alan in the middle? I don't know. I I can't remember. I think it starts with an a we'll see
All right. Well, yeah, we're gonna
All right, so we got joe's on the right and then other joe is in the fear. He looks like left
He looks like angry joe's dad
Oh crap now, I can't unsee it. Yeah, the guy in the middle is apparently your joe
How could you say that that is sexualist
See that silence that's guilt right there
So for the sake of argument i'm just gonna call him joe senior because I don't know his name joe senior
Yeah, all right. We'll call him joe senior you got joe joe senior
So now we've got three years we've got joe other joe and senior joe joe senior. Yeah
What's up guys? Welcome to the spoiler section
All right
Yeah, am I annoying you yes that laugh did annoy me quite a few times, but I think that's the point
Uh, you know, no the point of his laugh wasn't to annoy the audience. I don't think it was
We we are uh, we are not on a good start joe
Your dad. I guess your dad is very disappointed in you. He's not even looking at you. Look what you've done to your father joe
Are you fun?
It's a disappointed man
But isn't he gonna be the disappointing one of this person is this is this is joe vargas's father
This is senior vargas. Definitely. Well, apparently his name is later apparently his name is alex. So alex vargas
That's what I thought of joe vargas. Yeah, exactly. So joe senior
Senior joe senior
But okay, so here's senior senior loss that extra point at least for me
You know avoid not able to obtain that nine. Okay, so essentially in the climax of the film
this
television show host robert demiro
It you know plays a clip on his on his late night show making fun of this comic because the first time he goes on
He's really bad. He's not a stand-up comic
This guy you mean like arthur the protagonist of the film
Yeah, I think it's just like a sort of casual later of fear to the
I don't know why he didn't just call him joker all off of it. All right
It's like calling the skywalker this guy in an episode five review. It's just it just seems strange to me
Yeah, I mean i'll be honest. I kind of like screw names up a lot to myself too
Like sometimes i'll forget it like way later. No, everyone's name is hey you until I get to know him
exactly
It's um, very rude. You should stop doing that. It's a sexism
He has a condition stop laughing at him. And what do they do? They fucking laugh at him
They don't even consider whether he's mentally unstable or laughing at him. It's just cruel as fuck, right?
Well, he he does they do that before they bring him out though. Actually, you know the joker he says um
my mom told me that uh
People would laugh at me if I try it. Well people won't laugh
Uh, whatever he ends the joke with saying, um, well, no one's laughing now
I actually thought like I was like, yeah, this is not bad
Yeah, I thought that was funny
It's like, you know, it's it's a joke that relies on the idea that you think he's not funny. So I was just like, oh, yeah
not bad
I got a smile
Yeah, but the awkward introduction where he's just laughing at the microphone. I could see people be like what the fuck is going on
Yeah, definitely strange
Yeah, and I think that was kind of the therapy he needs
Sorry, uh, yeah, I figured that was kind of like
It wasn't like explicitly said but I think like the
Host didn't really consider it to be a mental illness. So they just thought oh he's laughing at his own joke something like that
Yeah, I mean that's what I got. I don't know about you guys, but oh, yeah, denier was definitely not considering that it's like a
Mental illness. I imagine
Probably wouldn't have been on board with it if he was told the guy is like even yeah all the way through the end
It's very possible denier just doesn't even know
Yeah, he didn't bring it up during the show. He didn't ask about anything
So I probably just thought he was a weirdo
I mean if the guy
He knew he was mentally ill that he claims to have killed those peoples
Like wouldn't that be one of the first things you'd go to he'd be like, oh here you're like a dangerous
dangerously ill person
Right
Doctor needs to speak to someone. Let's make fun of him. That's what's even more fucked up, right?
Then he actually later on in the film as things spiral out of control as he loses a girlfriend
I never had a girlfriend this huge subplot with his mother as he confronts thomas wane and all these different things
He's asked to come on the show
So the climax of the film is you know
He's kind of rehearsing what he's going to do on the show as he presents himself as the joker
And originally what he's supposed to do is he's supposed to be very charismatic
Sit down be very comfortable with himself and and tell a joke a knock-knock joke
Take out a gun and shoot himself on live tv
Right to make a statement, uh as he's writing in his notebook. He says he wasn't trying to make a statement. He's not political. Yeah, it was
It was the whole uh, hope my death makes more sense than my life
Yeah, he wasn't trying to make a statement. How how'd you fuck that up?
He does explicitly say it but okay
Then you know my life, but um, it turns out when he gets on there
You know, he gets more and more angry with the situation, especially them making fun of him
Over and over to his face and at that point
I think he makes a decision to just you know, fuck fuck this guy and he shoots him on live tv
Uh, and then that creates
You know, he becomes sort of a symbol for this movement which simultaneously is trying to fight the power
They're trying to fight rich people
While they but I don't think um
The late night host that that everybody who hates rich people
Would support just shooting this guy who has nothing to do with, you know
Ball street or anything. He's symbolic. He's very rich. He's very well to do. He talks to rich. Well to do people is like
It's like the same way people would view like
Trevor Noah or Oliver
Whoever the fuck they're all the they're all fucking interchangeable the late night tv. Yes. No stephen colby
Yeah, they're all they're all the fucking same jimmy kimmel. They're the ones though. He's literally just them but obviously from yeah, uh the 80s
Um jimmy one jimmy two jimmy three. Yeah, um
and so of course, yeah
He's definitely seen as a part of the upper echelon. In fact, I don't know that you could have
Other than like thomas wane. What's a more like utterly spectacular?
Hill on live tv than somebody who is essentially the symbol of live tv
Like one of the people who's always on there
It's like if johnny carston was killed or if walter kronkite was killed or you know, some someone like that
The part of the establishment man
Mm-hmm. Oh, yeah, that was definitely something that would rile people up like crazy
Like that it tells funny jokes. He seems charismatic, but you just shoot. I don't know david letterman or you shoot jay Leno
Just because he might have more money than you and and well, he didn't shoot
It doesn't have to make sense to you it has to make sense to what the messages of the people who might not like them is
Yeah, to them they feel it's justified. It's not but they feel it is like that's the whole point
They're you have two groups that are essentially just not understanding each other
Do enough things the rest will just you know coalesce
It's just like you have like a hundred people and 60 of them want to go and raid a place
And they're all groups like that 40 like well
Looks like we're going
Yeah
Mob mentality man and he's you know revealed as a hero to these people later on
They smack he's going to jail. That's not obvious. He might not even have survived long enough for
Yeah, who knows? It's like what's the hallucination? What isn't it's not obvious. I wouldn't say it's obvious
Are with the ambulance and they save him and they put him on the trunk of the police car and everybody's like yeah
Yeah, yeah, and then he gets up and he slowly starts to dance and well
Like remember remember the last time in the film. He was in front of a cheering crowd
total daydream
Absolute total daydream complete invention of his mind and he was dancing in that bathroom
At one point in the film the implication being that like he's imagining what's around him. Obviously the bar. Yeah
Not what he'd want specifically. I don't think
Happening we get yet another
Story for it's not an origin story for batman. I mean in the set. I mean it isn't technicality, I guess
But you don't have to know who batman even is
The question becomes what is it if you don't have batman at all?
What is what is that scene without any knowledge of any matter pieces of information?
Like it's it's an innocent bystander the child who had nothing to do with any of this whose life is now
Changed forever because of things completely out of his control
It's it's this idea that we've we've spent in the film
Almost understanding exactly why someone might execute thomas wayne and then it happens and all you see is the child
That's left behind like wow
And then you go. Oh and that turns out to be the origin story of batman, by the way, and it's like, oh
Yeah, it's like one of my favorite red dishes of the wade family getting killed because I know exactly why it happened
It led like
Like all these people are caught up in blood lust and this is the reminder that every person that you kill
Because like they don't exist in a vacuum
Like there are repercussions for every life that's lost
Yeah, and I find it interesting because like a lot of people are getting really tired of seeing like the
Crime alley murdered and the pearls and shit every single goddamn batman movie ever
And now it's all like they do it here and it's all like oh
They actually made it work
They put it toward the end and they didn't ham fist it to have like the kids shown with an after image of the cowl
Over his head or nothing. It was just just it was possibly
That parents confused and lost and it's possibly the least shoehorned i've ever seen
Because of the fact that it's entirely explained why this happened and how this happened
That's kind of where i'm going with this every other time we see it
It's usually a flashback or the introduction damn flashback and it's just right is just in there
It's like thomas wayne is the almost the antagonist of gotham in the film
Like these people and you've got him running for his life with his family and you've got all these people who hate him
It's like yeah
One of them notices him they're going to take a shot at him because he's killing thomas wayne
Man, you've knocked out like one of the biggest representations of the the leaders of the enemy class
Yeah, he was running for mayor
And again, you you don't have to know anything about bruce wayne. You don't know anything about batman
Everything still works perfectly
Because they characterized thomas wayne beforehand. So he was a character in there
And it wasn't just a fucking flashback
There he is
That's the guy I remember from several comics ago didn't have to do that
And it's just one of many events that are caused by this big change this big movement. Thanks to all these little
Events that occurred throughout the film to this one man who made this decision on this and this one important moment like it's it's
Big trail of cause and effect and I like it. Yeah
Shit over and over but i'm like, okay, it has to happen if they want to integrate this shit and uh, you know
That that's that's basically the climax. So this I like to I like what you said
They had to put that in there in case they want to integrate. It's like they
No, there's not they I don't think they were thinking about integrating it into anything. It's just if anything it's just a nod to batman
Yeah
You this is the thing. Um, some people see this as a criticism. You could theoretically swap the names of every character and it doesn't
Nothing, nothing overly bad happens. No the structure is is all there
But like the idea that they only had it to fit it with other films. I'd be like, uh
Especially because we know there's not gonna be another film as far as I know
I don't know if there is because I know that someone has been yeah, maybe there's a joker verse
They're trying to make her some bullshit. Joaquin's not gonna be back
Oh, he said he's interested in playing the joker again
Oh it would okay. I thought if I was the opposite. Yeah, well, that's what I thought
I've seen updates on that and this is the thing like
I mean
Where is it? What do you I don't know. I don't know but this is the thing like I didn't really
Know what they were gonna do with this film in the first place
I was like, I don't know what this is gonna be about so like I don't know they've gained some trust from me
like
The director whoever wrote it put together like I don't know
What do you want to do and like what the likelihood on it being good or bad it's like I don't know like
I don't know big shoes to fill
Not because they're clown shoes because it's good
We need to make sure you realize it's a batman movie or it's in the batman universe it really could have been
He'd never had his girlfriend though that that was all in his oh, that's all
Which leads me to believe this was the whole film. Yeah, the whole film was in his imagination
It's very very possible. Yeah, I I like that. I don't know
I like that deep filmmaking now. I do think
Yes, the director definitely leaves the door open that it's up to you, but he heavily implies
I think that this is real. There are certain things that happen in the film, but I guess you could
Well, it's kind of an inception moment. It's like did that really happen at the end? Oh, it could have
Yeah, is this all from his point of view like do are there any scenes?
that exist
That aren't from the perspective of arthur
Um, no, I think the the entire movie think about it. Yeah, do we see anything that arthur wouldn't see?
Um
The alleyway i'm like i'm trying to yeah the alleyway the alleyway. Yeah
Wait, no, did he because I think he was going by the alleyway when it happened before the ambulance hit him
No, it was like around the street or something
well, the other thing too it's like um
Toward the end of the movie when he's like chuckling in the mental ward and he's like, oh, I was thinking of a joke and then he
He kind of
Flashes back to the image of uh, little wane standing over his family
Um, and then he comes back to himself and he says ah, you wouldn't get it
So it's it's clear that he saw that but the question is I guess did he was it real?
Yeah, was it real? Yeah
No, the movie's empty guys
Empty there's nothing to talk about here
None to discuss. It was all bland. I'll explain it away. Is it happening in his mind?
So at the end of the film they show that he's but he's in the asane asylum
So you're like, wait a minute. How does he go from being the sort of leader to in jail?
Was he ever a leader a mental asylum that and in the beginning you also see a flashback of him in a mental asylum
So he he's in a mental asylum
And there's a lady there talking to him and he has this conversation with her and he's laughing about something
And she's like, you know, what are you laughing about and he looks back and he sees bruce wane
Looking at his dead parents in the alley and he thinks it's hilarious. There's no way you can see
From his point of view
Okay, right so so it's just an image in his head then later on they show him walking out of there with blood on his
Shoes implying that he killed that lady and he's trying to escape
But you're right could all have been in his head because all I can say from that point was a dream
Whatever it was creative
Well done and I think Joaquin Phoenix makes a unique joker
it is a different joker than we've seen depicted before from Jack Nicholson and uh, Mark Hamill and
Jared Leto I still I would be a hundred times more afraid of Jared Leto's Joker than Joaquin
Okay
I don't even know that I disagree with that
Who's might be more afraid of the reason I wouldn't be afraid of?
Jacqueline Phoenix's Joker is because of the fact that he I don't think he'd kill me
Because I haven't done anything to him
Um, yeah, I'm not a bad. I wouldn't be a bad person to him, you know
While Jared Leto's Joker doesn't have a personality. He's just insane. He's just
He's chaotic evil the caricature trying to be a nut job. So like, you know, he's like a copycat him saying it
Like it's a good thing. I'm like, I might agree with you, but probably not for the same reasons
You probably got there because yeah, okay
Jared Leto
I still I would be a hundred times more afraid of Jared Leto's Joker than Joaquin Phoenix
I don't know. I think Joaquin Phoenix doesn't matter who's
More scary when it's about understanding them. I don't
Yeah, I'm not entirely sure
Thanks at this point at least in his fantasy just let's assume his fantasies are real. He's very unpredictable
Let's assume his fantasies are real
He beat the shit out of Randall because he was a jerk to him, but the other guy he's like you were super nice to me
Go ahead and go. So if you're nice to fucking Joker, you're fine. There you go
Yeah, but he's like the only person that's ever been nice to him
Be nice him. Don't be a dick
So be nice to him
Yeah, don't be nice to him. That's like the whole point of the film be nice to people
He's not trying to be this movie's not about like the introduction of a super villain
I think they're trying to tell a contained story and they were very successful doing that the problem I have with it is
Them especially at the end of the movie. It's like based on dc characters. No, it wasn't this was there
No way can this fit i'm denied that it's based because based on a lot of things got bruce wayne and joker
And gotham and arkham asylum. I what?
Yeah, what are you what is your criteria?
Maybe not the ones that you wanted or the ones that you're familiar with
Maybe maybe none of them at all outside of their names, but that would still be based on would it not yeah still yeah
Yeah, I don't know where where he got that from
Maybe he felt like they weren't adapted close enough. So now they're not dc properties
I'm i'm not sure
In anything relate, I mean you could be like yes
The wanes were in there this joker cannot be of this joker would not be a menace to you
You said he's emaciated and he's like scary with scissors if you're if you're surprised by him
Like who he can't put his shoes on in the morning
Like are you you're afraid? I asked the joker is who's known for his prowess in open combat. I'm confused
What does he can put on his shoes connie? What?
Yeah, he can function in society. He held a job
He had shoes he wore shoes. Nobody put on his shoes for him. He put them on himself
I think i'm confusing it on like that thing where he was pulling the shoe apart. Yeah. Yeah, but for uh, he fucks up shoes
But like he wasn't
I don't think he was like frustrated because he can't put his shoe on he seemed to be trying to stretch it out a bit
Yeah
Or it was just pulling it apart out of frustration
But yeah that he was wearing shoes. He knows we know he knows how to wear shoes
What else did he say this can this fit in anything relate? I mean you could be like yes
The wanes were in there this joker can not be of this joker would not be a menace to you
You said he's emaciated and he's like scary with scissors if you're if you're surprised by him
Like he can't put his shoes on in the morning
Like are you you're afraid of this guy? I like his mother puts his shoes on so he has to i'm confused by that criticism
Whether or not he's an adaptation argument i'm confused based on the idea of joker that you have in your head
Why does he have to be scary what's what's this whole like?
Do you think he can't kill any of us? He just needs to be in a room with a gun. That's about it
Yeah, but but more interesting to me is just like he wouldn't want to kill us unless we've
Like done wrong to him. This is part of his whole
What he perceives as a wrong like there's this is very strange the criteria here is very strange
I remember he's sitting there struggling with clown shoes. He can't figure out fucking clown shoes. Of course he can he'd been wearing them previously
Yeah, we saw him dancing around in him and the in the children lately had him on
Yeah, and well the opening when he's spinning the sign he's got his clown shoes on
Yep, and we don't ever see a point where anybody helps him put shoes on
Because that one scene when he's messing with a shoe in one way or the other suddenly he can't we were talking about this though
like this is so weird
This is the villain this is the guy the trump to batman. He's like that man is like 12 years old
Like you're supposed to fight batman is like probably not because by the time batman's batman joker is probably dead but a very old man
Yeah, like joker's gonna be like 90 by the time batman's at his prime or like 75 or something
He's gonna be an old man an octogenarian or something
Why is it why do people judge him by whether or not he can take on batman is such a straight like is this because of
other movies
Is that how we judge jokers?
We're not like considered with the character just how much he's able to beat batman
Oh man, that's actually an interesting point. It's like he's he's already pretty
You know middle-aged at this point
And by the time bruce wayne becomes like, you know, actual adult batman. Do you think maybe arthur fleck will pass the torch?
That'll be my assumption if we were gonna entertain this unless you have a teenage batman
That's probably the only way you can do it like a late teenager batman maybe
Yeah, because this here is arthur fleck and like throughout the uh, you know batman series and everything like that
His name is jack napier
Oh check this out because it's because it's his nemesis mauler. It's part of the character
Sounds like an adaptation argument to me
Well, it's just like we want to talk about
How good the film is from the framing that he has to be able to beat batman. How bizarre
What me like why is it that he can't by the way because he's not physically strong enough it's like hmm, yeah
All those jokers in those iterations where he's like a bodybuilder
Um gotta be like the comic smaller. It's gotta be like the comic like oh, yes
But he has to be smart enough to beat batman
It's like who's to say he can't do shit to batman on an intellectual level right now with the resources
He may or may not have by the end of this film
Film isn't even about it
I don't know why we have to keep saying this batman's not even in this film
Reminder that saurin didn't even have a body
Yes, but he was way smarter than the joke easy
Oh, okay what this guy's gonna do he can't figure out his shoes that's because he okay i'll give you a justification
It's a weak one, but he's uncomfortable in his life. He's not being seen and now he's finally comfortable
He is it doesn't pot. This is not really related
Why?
Have the screen split up with two different cameras just sit together
Um, I think it's because their table is like joe's on one end and they're on the other
And I think like but they've had things before where they've all said. It's just it seems odd
They're split up in a different camera on one side and he's closer to his own camera that's set up and cut
Maybe it is
Because I was gonna say they did have it before but maybe they changed because it makes it easier to address people when you've got
Across the table instead of three people facing forward if you know, I mean
Yeah, the one thing that the one thing that bugged me because we were we were covering uh, uh, I hate everything
But angles exist weird curves. You can curve it like they do on like half of the bag and stuff
I just don't it's just it's weird. I know it doesn't have anything to do with like what they're saying
It just seems odd an odd decision
to make
right
Um, I think they just wanted to keep the focus on the faces a little bit more if you were to try and stretch it out
Across the table. It would just kind of look like a lot of wasted space. I guess
It's just it's just kind of an aesthetic choice. Um
Uh, lek said, isn't he 30 in the film penny says 30 years ago is when she worked for thomas thing is she adopted him?
And so was it age four that they said he was beaten?
So if he adopted him that would push him to a maximum age of 34, I guess
But uh, because if it takes place it takes place in 1981
1881
He seems real. He he ain't 30
Well, this is the thing whether or not he looks it i'm trying to figure out what the film is telling us his age is
right, I think we should assume it's around like 34 is pretty much the oldest he can be by the logic of
He worked for the waynes 30 years ago. She adopted him after she got like discharged, right? Or was it just before?
Uh
I don't know somewhere around that time
So if he was if he's 34 if if joker's 34 in this
And that means if let's say that bruce is 12
Something like that 12 13 14
Then by the time he's crime fighting
Age 30 35, you know when he's kind of it's typical, you know, he's not young he's not old
Then man, I mean joker's gonna be an oldman. Yeah
Which is why I think like either way torch maybe hmm
That's think the joker could be anyone
Yeah, I think I almost feel like that's one of the very
Prominent things that you pull from this little in chat to said arthur fleck
Becomes the inspiration to jack napier jack is the real joker who killed the waynes. It's like
You can write that easily
The only thing that you lose then is you lose jacqueline phoenix's joker and it's like yeah
If you have to see what they do what they want to do
You don't even need batman in a potential sequel. You could do whatever you want
Yeah, the thing of it is was it ever really established that the joker was in any way whether it was like henchman's or residual
Effects or anything like that was responsible for the death of his parents because I thought it was just some random ass mugger
Yeah, I thought I thought the whole point was that it was just some random ass mugger
It's like it was street crime and it was people like that the people on the streets
that
Batman wants to clean up. Yeah, and yeah, most villains aren't super villains
And you don't you doesn't have to yeah, and this is I guess that's the ultimate uh counter
You canny defeat batman. It's just like what if this isn't the joker the batman fights? What happens then? What what?
What happens to your criticism?
Yeah, don't tell me that in that massive violent mob of everyone wearing clown masks and being
Anarchists and whatnot that none of them would will try to emulate him to an extreme degree
Obviously there will be many people who want to be just like joker
And maybe one of them will rise to prominence as being the dare. I say it apex joker
Anyway
Bothering that he kills people
He finally found what he's good at and then that that's the argument I make but I see what you're saying
And I understand what you're saying, uh very much
But I thought it was oh, um in the first batman with michael keaton joker literally shot batman's parents. Yeah, I know
huh
Oh
It's uh, but the thing is that's a lot of people consider tim burton's ones to be an insult to batman the comics
So it depends on what continuity we're really drawing from
And joe's getting a lot of weight
Um, yeah, I guess he kind of has
Well, you know it comes with the territory I guess
This is the thing. I actually really like batman 89, but I know that i've just heard a lot of people say that it's
been bitten almost really into batman and i'm like, okay
Um, and yeah, I guess all you guys are trying to say back then there was the joker
Doesn't it doesn't have to be joker that killed batman's parents doesn't doesn't make the point
Any more salient whether or not it was a significant person
That did it rather than just uh a criminal of any kind. Yeah
Yeah, we don't have to look too hard into the guy that actually killed him
Like this point because he was just a rioter who caught the rich guys and just shot him because that's what they stood for
So it was entertaining from start to finish and you where you whereas you have a problem
Yeah, I was like, no joel shoe marker ruined batman
No, no, this is the thing people when joel shoe marker did his movies they were like, okay tim, but for sure
We'll take him over this. Holy shit
Um, yeah
Joker from the comics
I think if you look at it as an elseworld story or but it's not an elseworld story
They don't introduce it as you you're calling an elseworld story
They're just trying to tell their contained story and I think like I said, I think they were very successful in that
They're not you can't you can't simultaneously say that they're trying to tell their own self-contained story and then say it doesn't conform
To the joker that you want. Yeah, that's what I was
Thinking. Yeah, he said you can't call an elseworld story
Why not is it that the film has to be explicit and saying that it's an elseworld story?
What does it take to qualify as an elseworld story? Is it literally just someone describing it that way like a creator?
Arthur has to turn to the camera and go
This is an elseworld story
Because basically my contention is it's its own contained thing that doesn't conform to what's in the comics
It's like oh, so like you mean like an otherworldly version of a character like like an elseworlds
Vision of a character like i'm just curious. Is he looking for an official?
Label from like a creator I guess
They did warn people before this is not the comic book version of joe for sure and i'm not i'm not expecting it to be the
Comic book version of joker. It kind of sounds like you are
It really sounds exactly like you are
You're talking about are they going to do more more showings of them?
I don't want it because he cannot be a villain. He this his story is done. He is a villain
Can't be a villain he is
Dude, this comes entirely from the fact that he thinks he can't square up to batman
It's like why can you how can you not you can only be a villain if you can square up to batman like?
I'm not going to be in this universe for a while
I don't see why we can't just have this joker be the joker that inspires a future joker
There's no reason why that can't happen. I think it would be shocking if he didn't inspire future jokers, especially because
Let me see
It's it
With all the people out there and masks who consider him a hero and want anarchy and want to destroy the system and all that stuff
There's no way a bunch of them don't try to emulate him to an extreme degree
Yeah, they've already got their tools. They just need the mask. I got to do some joker-y things
Joker has to see how he would take this to the next level like four four 14 year olds beat his ass and like what?
Okay, so when you first off the first off there they weren't caucasian
second off
so
Well notice they start off by
Hitting him with a sign and knocking him onto his ass
That's what I was going to point out
I was like that that magically doesn't have less effect because it was a child who hit you with that force
Is he trying to say that the joker sucks because he got beat up by kids or something like if he can't
If he can't beat up a bunch of 14 year olds, what hope does he have at being a villain?
That's ridiculous. He wasn't even trying to beat him up because he was trying to hold
We had a whole movie to establish how he became a villain
We had more we had hours to show that to answer your question was answered
I'm picturing lord of the rings where like a bunch of 14 year olds are kicking the bottom of the tower of sauron
He just falls over eventually. It's like this guy can't even take on 14 year olds
Stupid tower
Like not even close and it's like well, yeah
And then okay explain to me the refrigerator part. Oh, he's crazy now
That's suicidal at that point. I mean
Isolating himself from the world going into the fridge
Well, yeah, I mean you'll you'll die in there if you're sitting long enough
But I think like, you know, he was timid about the idea because I'll pickle yourself
Yeah, but he he obviously came out of it later
But like at that point it seemed like he was done living and that's what that
You know portrayed. I just realized technically what I just said is true about sauron fucking bunch of hobbits being
I
Like sauron sucks sauron can't even beat a bunch of hobbits
I kind of feel it's one of those thermal exhaust port kind of deals where oh, you kill him
You just get to do this little one little thing
That's kind of what i'm getting at like this arbitrary thing where you're like if a villain can't beat up 14 year olds
What kind of villain could he be like?
What?
There's probably like I think of like immobile villains
But their power comes from their their ideas or something it's like come on
Why do I need to explain that
Okay joe
Do I have to you can't say that after what you just said
Like do I have to explain it to you and then you try to explain it and stay I don't know
I think I think what he was what he meant to say with that was do why do I have to explain it as in
Why is it on me to explain that scene to you right now?
I think not not like do I have to explain this to you? Isn't it obvious?
But it's because I know I don't have because he said because I know I don't have to
Is that really because he's because he says it from like yeah, like of course we know
Like I don't have to explain it to you
I mean you get it, right? We we both get it
Into the world I don't fucking know he's trying to get he's trying to
Hide
He's hiding from the world joe and then he realizes I don't need to hide anymore in the way he has
Confidence as he comes out, but it could have all been in his head and uh, so so
You know when he's doing his fantasies towards the beginning of the film. He says, oh, you're such a good dancer
And he's like I know
Right, but that's in his head and he's doing these fantasies
But then every single time when you see him, he's actually a good dancer. So you're like, wait a minute
Is he actually a good dancer?
I um, i'm not one to judge he's dancing because
I was like, I don't think people perceive I don't think people are cheering for him on the car because he's his dance moves are
Just phenomenal
Well, like he's established himself to be a very animated person because of his job and he was like showing that he was you know
Doing all of his animated dancing around in the children's hospital before the gun slipped out of his pants there
So like then again, he was trying to impress children
Yeah, and so he at least knows how to move
Sure, he knows how to move. Yeah
In his head he's a damn good dancer
Well, he also thought he was succeeding in the comedy the the place where he he's like he can yell the laughter and no one's laughing
I was like, oh man, I wanted you to stand up. I like that complex, uh, you know, uh mess to the
I just I just okay
This is a character that I feel sorry for because this character needs help that needs medication and therapy
Society has like cast him aside and stepped over him and he feels invisible and that's horrible
This is this is a guy that I do feel sorry for that. I want to help. This isn't
This isn't like a dc villain and he was trying to get help but then yeah, what do you mean?
He wasn't a dc villain again. That's
Isn't that an argument from what joe just said you were doing? It's not like the comics
It's not like a dc villains. Like these these are frameworks that are not coming from the story itself
Yeah
Can't make that criticism unless that's what the conversation is and that's not what this conversation was
He was trying to they're saying i'm getting a chat says they weren't the the crowd wasn't cheering arthur. They were chanting and a rioting
I mean
What I remember they would cheer him, but I could be wrong. Yeah, they explicitly pull him out of the car
And set him up on the hood
I don't know man
I think they're pretty pretty much cheering him on. He's like he's like a hero to them
Yes, and honestly if we've learned anything it seems like everybody's come away with that
Um from this one
Also, I have to highlight just like marvel i'm not saying marvels I mean to this too
The dc have some retarded villains like to be like
Scudgelord dc villain just like as if this is some kind of huge label to be able to attain
he's probably referring to like the best of dc villains, but
Uh, who was in chat? What are some of the silly dc villains?
Isn't captain cold one of them
Captain cold. Yeah, he's like a guy confused with mr. Freeze. Yeah
That's the funny thing. Oh, yeah, captain boomerang as well in your chill
Yeah, this could be spider-man
Hell in the man that like saw out of his eyes or something or his hands
More than one person said condiment king is condiment king a thing?
Condiment king really cried
man
Kite man is st here
captain boomerang
snow flame
Man nice to meet you
Oh, you're refer. Oh, I saw clay man. You're referring to clay face. That's actually a pretty cool villain clay faces
I remember him being being neat. I haven't seen clay face. He was in uh, he was in
The anime the mummy three
Um, you you talk about scorpion king. Oh, you're oh, why don't you're talking about sorry?
Condiment king is real. Okay. Well, there you go. Joker wasn't as much of a dc villain as condiment king obviously
People
Rat catcher king tut the puppet guy the weather wizard
Is that just storm weather wizard zach snide
Elf with the magic gun
I am elf with the magic people. Yeah, they they cut his funding the government. Yep
And then he killed his mom. That's so here's
Patricide like he like this is it's not patricide
And now he's on patricide is when you kill your father
Yeah, so what patricide's when you kill your father, what is he referring to when you kill your brother
matricide
But why did he say you break your mattress even if you can't i was about to say is he referring to to murray?
Like father figure I think that's a bit of a stretch. Yeah, I do too. Yeah, I don't I don't I wouldn't call that
They cut his funding
He doesn't commit patricide in gladiator and now he's out of this where he's just like pillow
Go to sleep. So the the thing he just said go to sleep dad
I guess he's referring to gladiator when he did that but yeah marcus. It was a mom in this
Yeah, that's matricide killing your parents isn't
It's from the latin potter which is father that's where we get patriarchy
There's there was an interesting
They were sort of teasing that uh, his mother tells him that oh thomas wane is going to help us
They're in a bad situation. They're poor in a shitty situation thomas wane is a good man. He's going to help us
I worked for him for a very long time
Uh, then, you know, he finds a letter from thomas because she keeps sending him letters
And it's you know
You see some stuff your your sons or she finds the letter that she says she's gonna mail out
Yeah, um, and she's always talking about your son
And so he thinks that he's the secret love child of thomas wane. He's the
Fucking brother of batman. Holy shit. This is great. Yeah, you don't think he sees it as being the brother of batman because
That man isn't doesn't exist
Right, so he goes to confront thomas wane first, you know
He's kind of fascinated with his supposed little brother. So he's outside the gates and you see that
I don't know what the hell bruce is thinking some creepy ass guy out there. I'm not talking to him
But he tempts him in with like little tricks
He's a kid. Yeah, we're gonna kid. I figure it
It was it was a little strange to me that he just stood there while he's messing with his mouth
Yeah, that one's that one's weird. Yeah
You know, he does magic trips for him and I think alfred comes out
I was like, who the fuck are you get the fuck out of here?
He's like i'm this person that here's my mother's name and he's like, oh you're that
You're the boy you're that so you think oh, there is something
It's his pronouns that but later he manages to sneak in as a bellboy to the uh, a theater
And confront thomas wane in the bathroom very awkward. You think something's gonna go down?
Some did go down you get punched in the fucking face
He finds out his life is a lie
Yeah, man, like that's a pretty important shit stuff goes down. I didn't find out
He didn't really like confirm his life was a lie until he saw the document. Right? Yeah, he finds out
That's why that's what got him to go. Yeah, that's what got him to go and check and find out
And confront thomas wane in the bathroom very awkward definitely sounds gonna go down
He was using the urinal. They don't talk is that you want an autograph or something?
I wasn't gonna wait for him to leave the urinal because he's not supposed to be in this place at the whole point
I he tries to tell him, you know, you're my my father. He's like no your mother was fucking crazy
Uh, she had to be admitted to the fucking mental hospital and you're just he's like shut up. No
You're wrong, but he goes and he checks at the mental hospital. He steals the records. Oh, yeah punch first
Yeah, he got punched he's like stay away from my son he did magic tricks
That's all he did you strangled his butt. He messed with his mouth and strangled his butler. Yeah, exactly
I mean you listen you don't you don't strangle the man who is the password to your supercomputer? Okay
That's a deep reference
Yeah
Clearly if your mom's in a mental asylum and this guy's over here creeping on your kid
You'd probably be like it don't fuck away from my kid, too
Uh, but so he steals the documents and he goes through and he finds oh shit. It's real
I'm this is not even my mother
I'm an adopted child and she even let her you know boyfriends beat me and
And uh chained me to a radiator and that might be why he has brain damage and has those commental conditions
It's all that hot air. So
He basically suffocates his own mother. Uh, watch once she wakes up
Yeah, and you know, he's committing a lot of murder doesn't seem like he's gonna get away with it at least in the scenario in his head
um
But he's killed what he's killed five people in this movie, right? He killed the three dudes
He killed the Johnny Carson guy
Well, let's see
Three on the subway
Um his co-worker Robert De Niro and his mother so six and then if you want to count the girl at the end or not
Um, I don't think I count Robert De Niro at that point
Well, he said that like oh he'd killed a bunch of people he's not going to get away with it
He hadn't killed Robert De Niro. Just oh, right. That's five
And randy. Oh and the mom's that's six. So you'll six people. Yeah
Um, and and the these clowns were talking about his friend
Uh, you know, so he starts the film as a clown not a failed comedian, but you know a clown
uh a sign spinner and shit, uh
and
His friend at first seems sympathetic, you know, it's like don't let people push you around don't let them beat you up here
You need this he gives him a gun and you're like, oh man, I shouldn't have this
And yeah, and you're like he gave him a gun
and
That very same person stabbed him with scissors
How ironic
Not to mention, uh
His boss says that that guy claimed that uh arthur tried to buy a gun with him
And so he sounds like the guy was trying to fuck arthur over basically
Yeah, which you know, it doesn't take long to generate motivation there. It's just like the less clowns
There are the more work you get probably
Yeah, um, he's also an asshole and this again supporting the idea that pretty much everybody's an asshole to him
Except the one person who gets paid one guy the one guy
Little you're like, okay
There's one good, you know new york and he's rough and tough and you say yeah take a gun
Don't worry about your mental illness
But it turns out he's being a fucking dick because he uses that against him later on
Basically tells his boss, you know all about it that are trying to buy this gun from me and uh, it's arthur himself
Who fucks it up because he's kind of glorifying using the gun accidentally shoots it off
Well that has nothing to that's actually has nothing to do with getting fucked over by yes his co-worker. That's very sad completely
Yeah, if anything it just shows arthur's naivety and getting he gets lost in his dreams to the point where he
Discharges a firearm in his living room. Yeah, and it's clear. He doesn't know how to use this thing
He even says so when he was given the gun
So it's all like, you know, anybody who doesn't know how to use a gun is probably going to do something stupid with it
And that's exactly what he did
there's no like
alert for anybody outside of his mother because i'm assuming the place he lives in is pretty like
They hear a gunshot they're probably like well, there's another one
Takes it with them to a children's hospital. What are you doing?
He's actually a pretty good clown. The kids were into it. They're having a good time, but then the gun falls out
Right. Well, it could still be a dream or could have been legit gun falls out gets fired from his job
Makes it worse by saying oh, no you try to buy this gun off. So he's like fuck that guy
Later on they come over to offer him sympathies for his mother passing away
Um, and he he takes a pair of scissors and buzz
Just like, you know stabs him in the neck and in the eye and it's brutal as hell and his his other friends start screaming
You know, he's like i'm not sure if he's a midget or dwarf but he's like
Hiding in the in the corner and he's like i'm not i'm not gonna hurt. Yeah, you're always nice to me
Yeah, exactly. He would have killed him as a guy. He went evil. He's like, no, you're nice to me
Go ahead and go he lets him go
He let people here's the funny part when they walk in he locks the top lock
So this little guy tries to run out the door. He's like arthur
And he's like sure he passed by he's like, ah, i'm kidding. Yeah, you you thought he'd kill him
I agree with you very sympathetic
You know villain and I was really afraid that they take that route. They took that route and it might be lazy
It might be manipulative but the way they executed it. I was like, all right, it's working. It's working
And there's still the brutalness, you know, his actions are wrong
You're rooting for him, but I think uh, no, I wasn't rooting for him
Yeah
I think I think I was I was pretty much like I was rooting for him to get well
But there was very much like when he shoots the guy in the bed the third guy when he shoots him in the back on
The stairs while he's crawling away
my um
My sympathy is basically completely gone at that point
But I can understand from his perspective why he was you know
When he when he arrives at the show, it wasn't like oh, I hope he shoots the crowd
I hope he shoots it. It's like no i'm just watching this unfold
I understand all of these characters what they're doing and where the world is right now. I want to see what happens next
Yeah, like there's there's very much a point where you're like, yeah
It's no mistake about it. Arthur is not the hero
Yeah, he's a protagonist
Yeah at that point. I wasn't even rooting for anybody at that point. It's just I all I was noticing was wait
He's going off script. Oh shoot. They're gonna catch him. Oh god, you know
It was just kind of the events like what's gonna happen next. I wasn't rooting for any one character at that point
the film was like look well, you know, look at what you're rooting for and
Uh, look at how things can sort of spiral out of control and we need mental health. Uh, we we need to
Make sure some of these people don't fall through the cracks. Otherwise
Um, it can spawn a joker. So
yeah, um
We're pretty much covered it all I do see alex points about them jamming it all into the end because it's like really
These guys are gonna glorify them. Did you not watch the movie?
Throughout the movie
Why would they glorify him people stop picking up the joker masks there?
People stop picking up the joker masks after the three meters in the subway like it starts happening. Yeah, man
He's like patient zero. He's the one who starts it all off. He's the clown who begins it all he goes on tv
And publicly says yeah. Oh, yeah, that was me. Yeah. I'm the one who got this kicked off
I didn't do a political thing, but hills Robert. You're like, yeah, they're gonna see him as quite the uh
The symbol the icon he's he's the person they want to to you know, be alive and well making choices essentially
I don't know thing feeling you know, I understand killing, you know
These these wall street people that were being jerks to him. He never mentions that by the way
He's being jerks to the the girl that was across from our uh-huh. Well, he's they were beating his ass
They were like he they were kicking him in the head. He shot in self-defense. Honestly
Honestly if there was a
Camera there and maybe he could make an argument for self-defense
Oh absolutely he goes and hunts them down and at that point it's no the first guy definitely the second one
Maybe i'd have to watch the scene again. The third guy definitely fucking nut. Yeah, you're definitely getting you're definitely going to prison
Obviously crosses the line kills his friends for setting him up and then shooting the guy on live tv, which is brutal
And you know in the climate that we are now
It's a little haunting people
People yeah, this is not already you should probably take care. They were upset before this even started. Yeah, it's rated r
For reasons that are listed next to the big red r wait children can't see this one. Oh, no
You mean something rated r means I know that you know m ratings on games don't probably mean anything anymore
But shit, man, it is an r-rated movie
Just babysit my kid movie come on
No, people probably should stay away. This is
People who look for deeper political meanings and things
This is maybe one to sit out because there's gonna be people on both sides of all arguments
They're like he's going for this and he's glorifying, you know the this this sub and that's who's he glorifying actually
Who is he glorifying?
Like even if I was going to take a position where the film was
using
Joker using arthur's character to glorify a group
Uh, because like that's the thing
No, one's no side is portrayed as good like the rich wealthy elite. Not the good guys the anarchist mob
Definitely not the good guys
Like he is definitely definitely not the good definitely a villain. Um
I
Don't know he just because
Your villainous is very fleshed out and explained doesn't mean it's a less villainous
Yeah, the best villains are often highly motivated
Yeah, they it's like but but it seems like if he's not portrayed as completely black and white evil and irredeemable
Then oh, it's a dangerous movie. It's like oh
Okay, life is that simple, huh?
A group of people and these people or they know it's this message. It's like if you're that kind of person
It's a dc movie. Don't don't don't read into it. It's a dc movie. Don't read into it
Um, I think he was he was trying to say like oh the political people are going to get all political about it
And then he's just saying don't take it too seriously
It's a fictional movie. I think he's what he's saying. Someone could totally plug a bunch of politics into a dc movie if I wanted to
Are they sure as hell have?
I mean, oh cancer marvel is in marvel and it's not unheard of a thing
So it was seeing maybe there might be an end credit scene a mid-credit scene. There's none of that here
Don't stay uh afterwards expecting his son to be like
Bruce Wayne goes bad man. No 14
Um, I just thought it was a well executed film a different alternate take on joker. Um, yeah, so
I think that's it. I think we covered everything even spoiler that we missed
They really ramped up yeah, I mean that was definitely in his head
Yeah, but it was camera makes a purpose to show you that it was in his head
But yet it doesn't show you that some of the rest of the stuff was in his head
But it was so that's why I feel like it implies that some of it was real
Yeah, but it's why would he be imagining that he has a girlfriend?
But that girlfriend was fake and he's telling himself that his girlfriend was fake though. No, that's actually a good point
If he's yeah, if the whole thing is him imagining it then why would his imaginary?
person in the imagination be fake
Yeah, that was like he was flashing back to where she wasn't there and like there was never any other time that that happened unless
Maybe they could have done differently super 40 chairs
And he imagined a reason for why he'd be motivated to become the person he wants to be
But I mean it's a bit weird
Like to have imaginary things happen in a complete imagined thing
Like just degrees of imagining things
Yeah, but I I just feel like maybe they could have done it with not any flashbacks
Just you know figured out a different way to do it with even less time
So, yeah, I I I agree the flashback shouldn't come on why would he tell himself his girlfriend was fake
He's off his meds. Yeah
I mean they they telegraphed pretty well like immediately because the first couple scenes with the girlfriend is so I hope your mic is fine
Oh, can you not hear me? Yeah, it's just it's a little off. No, that's just those are the words
This is the microphone you better the uh, the girlfriend
They they the first couple scenes with her like they introduce her they're in the elevator. He like smiles at her
He's real weird
And then the very next scene like she shows up for no reason and she's flirting with them
You're like this is fake and then the next scene it's like why couldn't it happen?
This is also really fake. I bought it. I think a lot of people bought it
I think a lot of I think a lot of people bought it. So yeah, he says she showed up for no reason
She showed up in his imagination because he followed her around and she said she noticed
And if you remember she's like were you following me and he goes
Yeah
Like like a sort of
It could be the beginning to a romantic comedy where instead of it being creepy creepy
It was like a a gesture of like sorry. I'm just you know, I'm really interested in you're really interesting
And then they go on to have this nice relationship that seems to develop it does actually something significant the fact that she's there with his
You know dying mother
But it's he wrote it himself. It's all in his head
Um, and it's I I I think I've said this to you rags
But I was like if if it had turned out to be a real relationship
I would have been criticizing the crap out of it. Be like I barely know this person. I remember him. Yeah, he's a choir
I was like do they flesh it out later? Do they like when he goes to her apartment? Do they talk about oh
Yeah, it's not real and you're like, oh suddenly everything makes a lot more sense. Okay
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, and that was the thing too
That was a thing. Um, because like how he just stormed into our apartment and gave her a smooch. I'm all like, oh
Okay, that was rather sudden. That was really weird. Especially with the clown makeup on
Yeah, exactly the clown makeup and then she's like, ha ha that guy killed a guy. Well, he's a hero
Like, okay. Well, you're really two-dimensional aren't you and then that was on purpose. Oh shit
Makes all the sense in the world now
Kind of bought it initially. Maybe he's like a funny guy
But then when he's he's like but when they're going on the dates and he's being funny in the comedy club
And she's laughing at every joke. I was like, no
Yeah, that's exactly that's just like his jokes are actually because I think I was going for the
I think the thought that I had was like maybe something was sort of wrong with her in a way and that's how they connect
There's some there's that kind of angle to it where maybe she has some kind of an issue and that's yeah
How they bond is I can't remember exactly what I was thinking
But I I think that was something that ran through my mind
I just remember having the um the concerned fry face the from futurama where you you know, like the
Don't believe this entirely face
And I was just letting it run because I was just like hmm. I need to see more before I conclude
Yeah, it's like I'm withholding judgment
tentatively initially, um, and then he goes into her house when shit starts to hit the fan and she's
What are you doing? You're that guy that lives down the end? That was such a fucking creepy
Yeah, and uh, yeah, it was nice to the young girl and like no you lock your door
Yeah, uh, I don't he doesn't kill her or anything. Uh, you know, at least not in his mind. Well, we don't know
True we don't know but they don't they don't imply it with bloody footprints or anything like that
Anyways guys
Oh, it's like a fucking I didn't even realize this is an animation of the bottom of the screen telling you to subscribe and ring the bell
And I heard the clicks. Yeah
I was confused. I was like, what are you? Yeah, that made me kind of go. Wait, what?
It's uh, really fascinating watch
Maybe, you know, some people might find it not really a joker tale, but fascinating nonetheless
Thank you guys so much for watching. Don't think of it as a joker tale think of it as a arthur. That was
The spoiler section think of tailing. Uh, I figured that most of the
contention the audience had would have been in the spoiler section unless i'm missing something
Is there a lot of?
stuff in the non-spoiler section that people had an issue with
Maybe because that was like there was some like wrong stuff, but it wasn't like egregious or anything
Yeah, it doesn't really explain the downvotes to me this video so far
I think a lot of people were really against uh, joe senior for a while because joe senior tends to be like a contrarian
If i'm to be you know, believe in the comment section, they're like, oh wow
What a surprise joe senior doesn't like us something
It's like so I think they were just kind of against joe senior for a while
And maybe I might be reading a little too far into it
But maybe there was more like well, I mean we could check out the first off. What do you guys reckon?
I had checked out the first half about like maybe
Three four minutes in and joe senior wasn't too egregious
I think maybe people might have been jumping on them too hard go from four minutes. Let's see if
We'll go from four minutes and if we had to fight loads of stuff we'll be fine if we don't then we'll go from zero
Watch the video backwards entirely more mental illness than some kind of criminal mastermind. I think on the ride over here
You said that he was not really, uh, you know super smart or cunning. He was more
Uh, I think you called him a simpleton. Yeah, he was he seemed like more imbalanced
This is the kind of the problem that I have with this is if you if you want to link this to the dc universe
This isn't a guy
That any of the heroes in the dc universe would
They would genuinely want to help this person like batman would not not have an issue like he's not going to hit him
fucking shoots people and
Yes, I would
also, this is a
Just depending on where he goes with this, but if he knocks the film because of a hypothetical he's invented
And that's that's definitely a big fuck up
But if he's just doing a little thought experiment if he's just doing thoughts then like, okay. Yeah, that's fine
But you can't knock the film if you're going to use this to knock the film then that's definitely that's a fuck up
Yeah, they're not going to do
You feel bad for this person he's a real character and he's not a he's a real character
There there's a there is a there is a point where I stop feeling sorry for him and i'm like, yeah
This guy's just a fucking dangerous person for sure. Yeah
like, um
We I can understand his first two kills
that the rest of them there's loads of like
especially like deniro man, like
He just says he just tells denier he's a bad person. It's based on what the fact that he's rich
Is that it is you following him in with a different group entirely the fact that he showed you video
It's like yeah, that was mean or mean-spirited to a degree, but I mean you're gonna kill a guy over that
Again why is why we we can't be like oh, yeah, he's totally justified. It's like no
Psychopath it's like having holding people over like a vat of you know
Whatever laughing gas or whatever that is. The joker is going to do. He's just more of a guy laughing gas
Bat of gas that'd be weird. Is it gonna stay in the lid on it? I guess he could technically do it if it's heavier than air
but
Oh, yeah, yeah, true interesting
Had a very rough life and then acted out and needs therapy like this guy needs therapy
He doesn't need batman and yes, this guy needs therapy. He doesn't need the batman
Okay
I don't know man. I feel like if batman showed up and kicked his ass. I'm like, well, this guy is like a
sex-tuple murderer
At this point my my sympathy for arthur at this point is basically exhausted
He needs a batman foot of serious therapy, but this this just feels different this just feels different it is different
It's good that it feels different
No, that's why people are interested. Uh, you know, I I called it guys
Uh a while back I had said this I want joker to be a villain, right?
I don't want him to be has he ever been anything besides a villain? Maybe he's gonna develop that
Well, it's okay if he's sympathetic, but in the beginning it's fine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah turns. He's gotta cross
a huge line or something, right? When does he not cross huge lines?
Well, he he's he's trying to like before the movie came out
He he said he wanted him to cross a huge line and it seems to me like he has the expectation that he's never going to
Oh, okay worried that they're not going to
So I think that's what he's going with it. I figured like he was just
I figured he was gonna do something horrible on the game show thing
Not from trailers like when I was watching the film I was like something really bad is gonna happen. Yeah
Yeah
You know what i'm saying?
But isn't that kind of fucked up?
Do you think hollywood has the balls to have him cross a fucking line and then and then you know people write articles
How could they glorify this joker, you know, you know what i'm saying. Well, yeah, he's right that did happen
Oh, they're trying to say violence is a good
Wow
I thought they would do the sympathetic thing
And I wanted them to do the brutal thing and they ended up doing both
And and so that they presented in a very raw way
Uh for you to kind of make your own decision about what a little bit of fervor around the film saying is this
glorifying no
No, no, no, no, no director trying to say very blatantly the opposite things are okay in society
Is the direct to try to say these things are okay in society? What do you mean?
Are you insane?
Because society deserves it. Oh my goodness. Oh, no
That's one of the themes of the film it's like you as a society created the joker what well hang on
I mean yes, no, no, no, no
There are people in the society that treated him badly, but I mean
It doesn't mean that it definitely is not saying that
Society deserves this
It means that this will be a natural result of what happens if you don't take care of mentally ill people and if you foster
A certain society amongst your fellow man. He's not saying oh, yeah
It's like those days like this is why you deserve it
His mom deserves that that third guy on the train deserve that
Talks your host deserve that all the idiot bruce wayne deserve that it's like no, no, no, no, no
definitely not and then some chaos happens and and uh, you know
And and I don't I don't think that you know, they're trying to glorify it and I still think that this is you know
An actual joker story just an alternate take on a joker story
And just because he's a mental patient
I think he's actually found what he's good at at this point and he could become walking phoenix is great at playing mental patience
Walking phoenix is finally
What is he saying? Is he like joker or walking? Yeah, he's talking about the character of authors finally found what he's good at
Yeah, being crazy. Yeah, I guess well, I mean good at you sort of
So sort of creative a joker that could be the rival to batman. They do have thomas wayne in this
They have alfred they have little bruce wayne. I think that was it could yeah
um, and towards the end of the film, uh, we'll try to avoid some spoilers talking about it in spoilers, but
Um, the film ends and I feel like this could be
Its own little cinematic universe. Uh, there could be a continuation of this now this one and done though, right?
Yeah, well, there's a lot of rumors. Uh, everybody kept who knows what's gonna happen
If the film makes a whole bunch of money, I think that they'll be encouraged to make a sequel whether or not it's a good idea
Yeah, but they'll fuck it up saying that all walking phoenix would only do one
Well, I just actually read an interview where it doesn't sound like that at all
He said he was very excited
It seems like there's a lot of people who think that because I was under the impression that he only
He only wanted to do the one but then I heard apparently not
Um, and now joe saying the same thing. So
What i've heard I haven't checked for a source, but apparently in an interview. He said he'd be up for playing the character again
Oh, okay. So we'll have to see I'm concerned about a sequel though. I really really am
I
Did uh to play the character walking phoenix himself his own several comic books
He said, uh, he really enjoyed playing the character was difficult to prepare for especially the amend
He he he lost a lot of weight for this role
He's emaciated emaciated
Emaciated emaciated. He said spool is earlier a couple people picked it up in chat. Yeah
Just that too he has this weird habit of like saying things weird. He says library is library. It's really annoying
man's
uh, but I think by when asked about you know, whether this could continue and do another one he's like i'm
You know, it's all up to the writer the director if we could do this. It was very open about he's open about doing
Another one me personally. I thought he did much better than jared leto
Obviously heath ledger, you know did a fantastic performance
But that has to stay in the nolan universe and if I had to select a joker
Who could actually fulfill that role and be the joker that we know
Or start to become more the joker that we know from the comics. I think Joaquin phoenix could pull it off pretty well
I agree with that steamy
Yeah, I think he's he's definitely I mean he's an incredible actor and he did a very very good job
I just I don't see that this joker ever being a villain in any story
What about this one? I don't know man
Why not this argument before
Like a friend a friend of mine recently, yeah
He was kind of making the same argument. I think what he's about to say here is that like, oh he's like some weirdo
But he doesn't strike me as like a crime genius or nothing in a hench like with
It's heavy planning and really loyal henchmen or anything like that
He just seems like a just a nutcase with who's in no control when everybody, you know
Project the whole blot on to him and he reacts
It's like but the people of gotham are like back and cool at the end of the film to a degree
yeah, um
yeah, definitely, but they but a lot of them will say like he doesn't seem like he's
Structured genius that we have come to know the joker is and the problem with that is
um, they didn't
It's like the problem with that is it seems like the end of the story before he started to learn to become that
Right now the story is all about how he turned to crime and became the joker first and then like, you know
They stopped there rather than him like, you know learning his craft and getting that going
But a lot of people just they were they were irritated over the fact that he was like, why can't that come in another story?
Exactly. And that's what I had said to my friend, but you know, he was pretty he he kind of got on
He said he wasn't going on the people are assuming that like joker too
It'll open to be like I had to clean the city
From the scoundrels like oh batman's here already cool. It's like no, no, no, no, no. No, we don't need to do that at all
Like batman doesn't need to just suddenly arrive like we you can do whatever you want with you know what I mean?
All these expectations man
Yeah, I feel like if they were going to do a sequel
I think that would be their next focus because right now the focus was solely on his turn to crime
And then I think they can develop his skills later
It kind of but it feels like they should have developed everything all at once and I feel like that's not really
gonna do too well because like a lot of the times during
Some previous batman's it it seemed like in his backstories. He was like the crime genius first and then the clown later
Um, you know, I could be recalling that incorrectly, but you know, did anybody really ask how he became like, you know
A cackling clown man. He was a he was a mob guy or a guy down on his luck before you know
He was maybe a stand-up comic here and there, but you know, nobody seemed to question that
I don't know. So maybe recalling it incorrectly. But yeah, I think they should have expanded on like more later
According to pecca in the killing joke joker was a comedian and knew nothing about crime and people loved it
Oh, love it. Um, yeah, well
Interesting. Well, there you go. It's like
They they kind of went in different directions
No reason why he wouldn't be able to develop those skills, I guess
Exactly. He got plenty of time little wayne's still a kid. So
Over the time as he grows they they didn't do any they could have done things where they show that he had
Incredible capacity to to do do things right that he was an intelligent person or he did he did things like this is a guy
That you look at and I just I don't see him being a villain in any story
Like yes, he he's good at killing like a couple people
I see what you're saying. Well joker's never had superpowers. He's super crazy
So is he saying that like we can't get stories where joker does incredibly complicated things to create like awesome planets like, okay
Probably doesn't mean you can't do anything. There's plenty of stories you can still make
I don't see why he has to be like super intelligent
Yeah, I mean the guy's got time to learn that shit
He's gonna start to start his crime empire from here. So he's got plenty of time to learn
Do make seem joker has an expert fighter because sometimes he's able to go hand to hand
Well, I mean not even fighter just I mean
I want him to be able to like think him his way out of a room
And I just I look at the way that Joaquin Phoenix like portrayed this character
And he has trouble with just simple things so really escaped the two police officers
In what was actually pretty clever way
Yeah
That was that was kind of like his first really, you know, clever move
Get the mask on go on to the with the protesters and stuff
Although like, you know, it was probably accidental that he wind up wound up with the protesters
But when he was there he kind of adapted to this situation and got out of it. So
Be good at what he does now he's now comfortable being who he is
I think he's a great alternate take on joker and and I would love to see I I really enjoy it guys
What i'm saying is I recommend that you go out and see this in theaters and don't worry about oh, no
Is there?
Is there danger to see this in the theater? Is this going to cause some kind of mass hysteria or something like that?
No, not at all. I think a lot of that stuff is trumped up
I think there's one that you need to see and dc films have been
All over the place and this is one that yes
It's grounded and in real life and I don't know why dc loves to take this direction
Make it really grounded in real life and gritty and dark and and it's like you kind of want to see some of the more
Comic book versions, but when it's this well done and when it's this well directed and this well acted
And and there's a lot of passion in this film
And it depicts, you know a kind of a realistic take on this
This is like, okay how somebody could become a villain and from his perspective. He's the hero of the story
Uh, you know, I think that that was well executed and it deserves a watch. So
Let's go with final verdicts and then we'll jump into all the spoilers
Don't let us down joe senior look like okay alex is mulling it over
Yeah, I mean that this one's really difficult and so like I know is it though
Is it really difficult? This is a dc film where you rate this in the dc universe. It's pretty low. Um,
He just did it again d.c adaptation
Two points first of all why rate it within the dc universe strange. It's clearly however
Said that it's a standalone thing
However said that however, if you're gonna because you know, you can compare any film to any film if you really want to
so if you're gonna
Uh, how does it compare to the films of the dcu? It's like well, it destroys all of them
And he said it ranks pretty low
Yeah, what is this top five
Assuming we we are talking about the dcu, right? We're not talking about all dc films ever made
Let's go with final verdicts and then we'll jump into all the spoilers
Do you think this moment where he's like, um, should I say what i'm about to say?
This goes out to millions of people
Why don't you go first it looks like okay alex is mulling it over
Yeah, I mean
This one's really difficult. And so like I know
Where I want to if you're like, this is a dc film where you rate this in the dc universe. It's pretty low
Um, because I I don't think that it at times. Like I said, I forgot I I don't feel that they did a very good job
Linking it to it. I don't buy like I don't I don't want to see
I I just don't why it's not supposed to be linked as far as i'm aware
Is it is it do we have confirmation on that? I I was under the impression that it was separated from the dcu
Yeah, I mean
It kind of seems that way
I mean like you're using dcu properties, but you're not like trying to adapt it to something that already like
You know make it a prequel to something else being critical of the film for not connected to something that it's not connected to
I don't know that seems weird, but okay
Well, I don't I don't think it needs to be
Linked into the dce for it to be a good film. No, I don't I actually though
That's that that's what i'm getting to is it is a very everyone chat saying it's been confirmed as a standalone
Okay, so
Where did he get this expectation from?
Very good film on its own
But it feels like they slapped some of the dc stuff as an afterthought
And it doesn't feel like they set out to make a joker movie from the beginning
Someone had an idea and then they just like well
Let's do it in gotham and let's make the wane the wane's a character
And this guy's the joker and we'll do some things with it
and there were some scenes that so is that an argument that is disrespectful to the source material then because
That's it, right?
It's not a problem whether or not
Uh these characters like
If that's his issue
Which I think it is
Then okay, you don't like it as an adaptation. All right
They kind of cemented it at the very end
But if you look at those scenes and compare it to everything else that you've seen they seem tacked on at the end
So I like this movie. I think it's it's definitely above average
You you should probably watch this movie just to see what dude he said it's above average
But like on the low in the dcu does he think all of the movies in the dcu or above average above average?
Oh
I want to chat said his favor is aquaman. Is that true?
What?
Well, you can't what's what's the good choice outside of like wonder woman, which is the only one that people
Tend to say is like a fair choice for a good like what is the choice in the dcu? It's like, oh, yeah
That's a good choice
Uh dark knight
No dcu like
So you have your your choices are man of steel bama versus superman justice league wonder woman jazam aquaman
I think that's it. I general. I think most people probably say wonder woman's the best
Yeah, a lot of people are
Yeah, jazam i've heard was pretty good. I haven't seen it but uh consensus is pretty high on that one
Everyone in chat watch southpaw's video and discover why shazam isn't very good
Oh
Feels bad bad like me me and mel watched it hoping to have some fun. We were like god. This is badly written
So you so you actually saw shazam and you didn't like it. Uh, I thought it was pretty hilariously bad
Oh, okay. Yeah
I pretty much think all of the dcu movies are hilariously bad. So
I decided wonder woman. I actually thought one woman was all right. The third act was hilariously bad
Ah, gotcha
That's poor a fan. He is not
Um
Phoenix do what he did which oh right suicide squad. That's another one. I completely forgot. Oh, jesus
I well, don't don't feel bad movie bob forgot it too
I think this is for me. It's gonna be a seven out of ten
um
But I think yeah, I I do see what you're saying. There's some flaws in logic that will get oh, well
That's one thing that's really interesting is because he's a narrator and he's such an unreliable narrator
there are times where he fires nine eight at least eight if not nine bullets out of out of a
You know a little revolver. Yeah, that's actually true. It's like a six shooter in there. He fired like nine bullets
He fired. Yeah, he definitely that was something that I noticed
Luckily, he doesn't fire any more than he had to complete the task
He overfires all the bullets he overfires are in what is essentially a corpse
What i'm what i'm getting at is that the bonus bullets didn't allow him to do anything
He couldn't do with the current bullets he had anyway
That's the the only caveat but it's still not good that he apparently reloaded in an instant off screen
Just like oh, okay
It's like somebody who doesn't know how to use a gun knows how to suddenly whip it out and it was one on
first dude two on second dude
And then he shot the guy with his fourth bullet in the leg
And then he shot him down on the floor with his fifth bullet and then he shot shot shot shot
I think so. Yeah, the guy was gonna die on that third shot regardless
Right, then he does empty more bullets and was like, oh where'd those come from?
But yeah, i'm surprised they got
Some revolvers do carry more than six. I could have sworn they show a close-up of the of the gun
It was a six shooter. I could be wrong though
Yeah, it was
Um, so yeah, um
It would have I don't know. Yeah, I mean that that was it wasn't as bad as it could have been
Yeah, like I said, it didn't allow him to do anything he couldn't already do
Yeah, it's like at the very very most you can fire one more bullet and then he just goes click click click click click
You know repeatedly, you know, the funny thing is
I think it could have made the scene
Slightly more interesting if he clicked at him several several times, you know
I mean like he fired that last bullet that he actually had yeah clicked the logic and just keeps clicking
Oh, yeah, and then one more in the chamber rolls around. Yeah
And it's a nine bullet revolver well, well this one isn't it's just because he's the unreliable narrator and it's just
I never thought it was because he's an unreliable. I just thought that they'd fuck that up
Yeah
He there's there's things in there. Look, I don't know if that's on purpose or if that's something they didn't catch
I imagine it's because he's unreliable. So there's some this this is a movie that you could probably watch twice and just keep learning stuff
Okay
What did you give it seven? Okay
Yeah, I also would recommend it because just his performance alone was great
Seven out of ten for me. I love the soundtrack. I love uh, the cinematography in this film. It was great
and
His transition like I said was uncanny. I was like, all right
Take this little simpleton guy because like he's just mild mannered. He had a bad week
and then all of a sudden
He's just so confident and whatnot
Like I said, I forgot it was the Joker
so
Seven out of ten for me. Okay. Um, I I disagree a little bit
I think this is one of DC use better films
But I do agree that they had to use an existing film king of comedy has a little bit of a crutch
Like you were saying it seemed like that guy goes, you know what?
That would be kind of a good way to introduce Joker and then he does his research
Completely its own thing, but we'll have to get into that another podcast probably
She's like my god the killing joke. He said he's a comedian. These two things go together perfectly, right?
And honestly, they go together perfectly
So I think he executed his idea well enough and he does turn into
Uh kind of a joker that we we could buy towards the end and just the performances are electric
The tension is is really good
Uh, there are moments where you kind of get annoyed with arthur's character
His laugh is annoying, but I think that's all done. Yeah
Apparently he thought that it was supposed to annoy the audience a very strange comment. That's at 16 minutes, I guess
We're watching this backwards
And you find yourself my god, am I rooting for this?
This this is terrible what the things that he starts to do and it starts to spy we're out of control
So that's why I really wanted to give the film a nine out of ten
but because it uses some of that other material and because
Uh some of the flaws and logic towards the end as it spirals, uh into its climax
You say yourself really would that really happen?
In this particular way. I I think those kinds of things hold it back just a little bit an eight out of ten
But I personally now that I figured out that Joaquin Phoenix didn't say nope. I'm not doing anymore
You know i'm doing one and done. No, he's actually open. I wouldn't mind seeing, you know
If they could connect this to maybe the upcoming batman film or something like that
I don't know if the ages work out because joker would be quite old by the time. Yeah, none of the ages in this
It does it does kind of seem like that this is a one and done even though he's he's open to whatever happens next
But uh, so i'm giving it an eight out of ten
But that also reminds me too. Uh, one of my points I forgot was
Uh, some of these scenes for me felt like i'm not even i'm just kind of like listening to like you guys know
He's going crazy. You know what you're saying. I got this scene and check this out
It felt unnecessary
Was he talking about the girlfriend or
But that also reminds me too, uh, one of my points I forgot was
Uh, some of these scenes for me felt unnecessary like oh, we gotta make sure you like you guys know
He's going crazy. Check out this scene. What that's integral. That's vital to his character
I had to make sure what he was saying is his criticism. There's some scenes that are just like hey, he's crazy
Yeah, there's some scenes where we show him getting crazier like wait
That's kind of surely he can reference one of them. I'm assuming he's saying they're not necessary
It's like surely you could just just give me one. Yeah
Yeah, there's a couple in there's a couple in particular
Well, I I didn't talk about that in spoilers we watched all of the spoilers I didn't hear any I don't remember that
I didn't hear any points me he wants to forgot extra layer there
This could you know, is this really happening? Is he having delusions? Is it is it real?
I like that that that lends itself well to a second viewing and and I do want to see it again
And uh for for films, I can't really say that, you know, dc films in particular. Sometimes you're like
Just think again who we had to actually
Oh my god, oh jesus christ
Caught me off guard again. All right. Um, I mean that's you know, I I don't understand how this got
Downvoted to hell. Um
Yeah, it's not that bad
Yeah, they were pretty brutal on uh, like the other two we watched for way worse than this
Yo, yeah, absolutely freaking lutely jesus
The top comment is this doesn't feel like a dc movie that's an unintentionally rigging endorsement to me
Yeah
Um
Okay, well that wasn't so bad yeah i'm just checking out what people people were saying about the video, um
I don't know. Maybe it's because this one came out pretty quickly and
This is where people decided to discuss it because I can you know
Well, okay, maybe I was wrong movie bobs ratio seems to be about the same
Um
So it's like I was gonna say move up. It was way worse, but that first video was possibly yeah the worst between that
Okay, yeah, that was borderline just that was just out there
Oh, yeah, it is. It is really hard to listen to a blatant racist for that long and it was only three minutes
Took us ages to get through way quicker with the angry joe one just because it's it's barely just people talking about
I don't know how they felt watching stuff
Yeah, it really wasn't as egregious as the comments and the ratings seem to suggest I mean we pretty much paused and countered
Everywhere that we wanted to and we didn't actually pause that we got through that video pretty quickly and it's like a that was
It's 36 minutes. Yeah, we we we watched it. Uh, 32 then didn't make we started at four minutes. We watched both sides. So yeah
Went back to see if we can find the egregiousness not quite
It was there was some adaptation arguments that we were a little tired of already, but you know
It's fine. Other joes seem to have it on the ball except for that one last line there, but you know
Normally ink just said do rlm's review. We have actually been talking about um
A lot of it's criticisms. I don't know if it's efap or the we'd be watching a lot of it
He says that's pretty bad
Jay does but
I don't know if it's like efap because you gotta you gotta get to stuff
You gotta go through a lot to get to kind of be like the angry joe one
But probably even less pausing because it's mainly there's a there's a handful of about five comments from jay and total
But we've been we've kind of addressed them in this stream. Anyway
Um, yeah, um, the most part jay said like oh, it was like a check box of things that happened to him
It's like whoa, that's that's a that's a really uh
It's a really dismissive way to say like events happened in the movie
Yeah, but jay literally missed the yeah j
Honestly, if you go to the rlm video and look at the comments jay's getting like roasted because he just like
Missed loads of details somehow like I don't know what happened to jay when he saw the film
Yeah, like I think somebody brought up that like he was already really against
Um the director and so it colored his opinion and like even mike notices that he's like he's like you're like wrong
I
I'm curious if jay's going to acknowledge it on any future videos or anything. I wonder if you'll mention it
Because uh, we'll see because there are a couple people in the comment section like jay was right
It's like he can't really be right because he's literally ignored scenes, but okay
Um, yeah, so I don't think that's really efap worthy to be honest with because i'd say there would be a lot of us
Waiting around and I honestly if I had known
Exactly what the angry joe video was I probably wouldn't have recommended it for efap because there's a lot of us just watching
I I do feel guilty sometimes just playing someone's video for an extended period of time because i'm like
We should call it on this but it's like sometimes just like stuff that there's nothing to disagree with or whatever and um, right
Yeah, um, i'm i'm gonna probably get started on super chats now is unless there's anything else
Um, no, I think we've uh, I think we have a sufficiently and adequately covered
Enough joker videos for the day or the day certainly
Or the day different more to come perhaps maybe later
Yes, who knows this this might be the joker arc at this point because it's probably gonna be more terrible takes to come
Um
So there's a couple that I don't remember
Did I read this out pigeon missiles would test done in world war ii they also tested using bats as indirect incendiary bombs
And rags stop killing me in games. Do you remember reading that out?
What's the name of uh name of the guy og mima
Hmm, you know, i've got a vague memory of actually you asking that me reading that out last time might have been
Yeah, I I remember the comment. Yeah. All right, um
Uh rags I still poop with my door open keep j
Oh
I mean i'm not sure how jake connects to it
But yeah, I mean if you live alone, you can poop with the door open
It's just some people just don't want to see that shit, you know
You can but I mean like I live alone
But I still I don't poop with the door open. It just ain't it ain't right. It ain't right. All right
Um from james moore. Oh man, I can't wait i'm guessing because this is all about jokes
On college break so i'm able to super chat again
Wonderful
Hi critical drinker. He would have said hi back. He would have maybe he didn't chat. I'm not
Hello all my rags words
Oh the r-word with blizzards gay characters actually straight in china does this prove it was just a panda here in the west
Is that true
Wait what now say that again with blizzards gay characters actually straight in china
Does this prove it was just a panda here in the west?
Yeah, of course. No doubt the only one that wasn't the only one that wasn't pandering was tracer who was written that way from the beginning
Um, but yeah, the other ones were absolutely pandering, but that is true. Yeah, like tracer and soldier 76
They are straight in china
I hope this efap doesn't have too much
Sorry, they don't give a shit
Uh, I hope this efap doesn't have too much middle
Is this person not aware that it's all middle?
That efap never ends never began
A movie binge update my roommate made me watch scott pilgrim versus the world movies were a mistake
He did didn't like it a lot of scott pilgrim was pretty well received typically by most people. Yes. I was aware
I've heard
Yeah, i've heard they're good. I haven't seen them. I don't have any interest in it, but
I heard they're good
Yeah, it's pretty funny. It was kind of like a little bit of a hot fuzz sort of vibe to it
I see a little more over the top and more video gamey
Um
Why do you have to disagree with the video to comment on it? Why not just watch a video to agree?
so like
We would just what we we've kind of done that before but we we only ever do it to promote
Like robot heads video we played
Like a couple minutes of it and then we said go watch it go subscribe
The next snacks we did the same thing. Um, we're not going to repurpose people's videos to just watch
Then have you guys watch they go that was good
You're essentially just those reaction channels at that point and we really don't like those
Yeah, it's like if we if we like a video and we really do agree with it
We'll recommend it we'll give like a link and like our title to follow and that'll be the end of it
Um, also a lot of people are asking to react to the the freddy prince jr rant
um, it'll be in the
sort of backlog we're gonna wait until we have a guest who
Is like well on star wars lord nerd and we've actually got one
Planned for the relative future that I think will work out. So we'll probably save it for them
So it'll come it'll come I like to try and aim these videos to be sort of suitable
Like the three guests we had today all made videos on joker before coming on to this this podcast. Are you?
Cool. Yeah, except for me. Yeah, idiot. You're supposed to make a joke
I'm sorry. Um
Hello lovely boys some nice german coin for the best podcast on this platform happy sunday stream
Thank you. Oh, yeah
Super chatting now. So y'all you can you all can get enough sleep
You mean instead of later? I don't know. So so we don't extend the uh super chat still later
um
Sexting my gf and she wrote holding your stick like weapon. I just found out she started using my youtube account efap bringing people together
Yay, like making relationships can be dangerous be careful
Um anyone on panel interested in 1917?
Yeah, sort of like he's referring to the movie oh
Oh haven't seen that what is it? No, I haven't it's gonna I think it's coming out soon world war one movie
Okay. Oh, is that the one from um, uh roland emmerich's making it is that the one
I'm not sure he's making it
Even thinking of different things. Sorry
uh
She's a hero. Oh, yeah, I guess we were talking about that at the beginning
Um good old bat woman possibly. Hi maula
Now that you're an old man
Will you try and kill your nephew in his sleep and when you fail flee to the most unfindable place in scotland?
Drink rhino milk and contemplate suicide for 30 years
I mean i'll think about it
It would 30 years would have passed. So obviously I would have changed. That's how that works. Yep
Like time passes you change
Yeah, suddenly your videos are short as hell guys. Stop. Stop hating hate
Every frame a platter for thanksgiving. Yeah
That works we'd have to get that russian league done if ever we actually did a stream on the day of thanks
See what happens and then for christmas every day of present
That's actually already made
If we will see that shit
Well, I mean it's fine. It's I think it's naturally what everybody would probably put there if they were to try and choose
Um, hello mass. It was heading to my father-in-laws for thanksgiving, but I wanted to ask for advice on what will be my first review joker
Uh, I also wanted to say that because of the critical eye i've gotten from these shows. I enjoyed joker way way more also. Hi rags
hello
so um
Whenever I get asked for advice, it's usually just the whole
Accuracy
thoroughness
consistency
Sort of principles of just doing your best with all of those. Um, but it also depends on what kind of format you're going for. So
Just uh, just take your time. Watch it. Make sure what you're saying is supported and um express how you feel at any point
You want to do to just a nice good old-fashioned review that's cohesive and structured
That would be my advice rags. What's your advice for somebody's first review?
Huh
Don't go with your first draft
Watch it over
Uh when when you're done just you can go over it as many times as you want
Until you feel like like comment like when you finish it
Go through it again and comment on it
Even if it's like out loud to yourself
Just make commentary on what you would change as if you were critiquing somebody else's video
Yeah, I mean how many like what was the most redrafts that you've ever done on a project mutually I don't fucking redraft
But usually usually
oh and um
I feel like
Especially with how I keep returning to it
The tfa series is going to be the one that's got the most redrafts and I don't
Want to guess what the number would be but it's going to be over seven at this point
Nice you never know how much you're going to change with how time changes
Um nice to finally make it to see an efappening live been watching the archive
You guys are amazing at being able to go so long without being boring
Well, thank you
You're very much appreciate that
Also, hi wags
Hello
I had an epiphany this morning while watching a previous efapp all tlj defenses are baseless denial or blaming people for how bad it is
Blame slash denial. Do they know it's bad and are simply grieving?
Like different stages for each of the review people
Gweaving I guess uh majorly would have been anger
But um, it's possible
I also believe fully that all the all those people out there really did enjoy it and they were just looking to try and
Explain as best they can
Or why?
So you end up fishing for some crazy stuff sometimes
um
Have you seen old french movies with louis difune?
John
Marie here richard, etc. They are amazing really beloved in russia
Yeah, i'm not sure. No, I don't think so. I don't recognize the names
Are you guys enjoying the short show that blizzard at the moment also high wags
Hello, and yes, I am uh, I am I am watching all of this
unfold
And it is just crazy
Yeah, yep free free hong kong. Fuck blizzard and may the dawn bless you all
Are there any updates on that beyond the the message they gave out?
But as far as it's gone still as far as I know
I think they did they uh, they cancelled a pre-order for a may figure because of what they're doing like
The community was making may like the mascot for the hong kong protest
And so I think blizzard had actually taken that figure down now
Yeah, the may statue isn't available on the store anymore. Um, the link that they had originally provided now links to something else
um
But yeah, essentially they're they're memeing may into a pro democracy
You know liberate hong kong symbol
So that they they're trying to push the idea that they have to censor characters within their own game. Just just push and see how far
Um, they'll go uh, I know to bend to china but ultimately
You're you're you gotta make him choose gotta make him choose
china's shit
It is china doesn't give a fuck china authoritarian communist shit hole man
Fuck china who said it was like almost in pretty much every industry china's ruining it
No matter what industry china is making everything worse
All right, china makes everything worse
Um, and then we go from that to my first dog's name was rags two dollars for the good boy
Oh, hello
rags
Ravage me with your meaty ramshaft. My pork pocket is yours for the taking
Oh
I forgot to say hi rags earlier. Hi rags. Not your friends. What hello?
Um, i've contracted the big gay while looking at women on twitter any advice
Uh
And you're gonna have to look at the men I guess if you want to
Wait the big gay for looking at women
Which of the which of the male slash for male are you in which you contracted the big gay?
Because it's different for dependence on there's lots of variables here
Also, I want to recommend shad's book the objective way to make good spaghetti bolognese in my opinion
Good stuff
Also, hi rags
Hello
My wife said she wanted to see birds of prey
So naturally I threw my boiling tea in her face for speaking out of turn and then went to see it
Turns out hitting women is bad. Who knew thanks hollywood
well, if only he if he had seen
the film before
Then he wouldn't have thrown tea. Yeah for the people saying like oh finally we have it and stuff
This is like yeah, you should be condemning it for taking this long to come out. It should have been out earlier
Saved everything
How selfish of it to have released so late
Some high critical high weekend high doom high mauler
And then it says also hi rags
Hello
And yes, hello
Um, hello rags
Hello
I just got engaged this weekend, but i'm keeping my black hole pure for you
hi
That's a nice thing to do. I think that's that's I could support that. I think that's a noble. That's a noble thing to do
Uh mulesley, do you still have my question for she doesn't mind and she just doesn't understand you. Oh, yeah, like she needs to
Do
I mean, yeah, and I hope it all works out. Don't
Go to don't watch efap on the wedding day. Apparently that that's bad luck
Um, is it? Yeah, that guy who did it ended up divorced
Is that a bat maybe he maybe he got out of something that would have been worse
Oh you think it's good luck watch efap all wedding day
The best life app watch always efap daily always time
Um, we will save you from women who are gonna
Manipulate you and take half your shit
Yeah, uh muesli. Do you still have my questions for shad? I have I still have the seven or eight questions for shad
The next time he's on here
Probably hold on a minute
I I hate to suddenly jump in on something completely off the cuff here. But what the hell is this i'm hearing of like
Fortnight shutting down
Huh
Fortnight
What point are you shutting down?
I keep seeing like a whole lot of stuff in different feeds about fortnite shutting down whether or not that's a meme or a rumor
What the hell is this like fortnite season 11 event ends with a cosmic explosion and now the game is gone
Like like i'll be real for that day
That's yeah, that's obvious you think they're just gonna do you think that
Like
The official fortnite twitter account and website only show the black hole the game's instagram account shows the same
Since then developer epic deleted all of the more than 12 000 tweets on the fortnite twitter account
Aside from the link to the stream of the black hole
Um
The fortnite youtube channel has a live stream of the event that shows the explosions and is currently streaming just to singularity
That just sounds like a big viral marketing thing to me. Like I seriously doubt they would stop fortnite
Isn't that like a huge sort of money for that? Oh, yeah
It's like the whole reason that their store is a freaking piece of garbage that bribes people to begin with
uh, I don't know I just I I
I thought about it because like, you know
how
Tencent owns like 40 percent of epic games and like I guess the ceo came out and was like we ain't gonna do what blizzard
Did and I was kind of wondering if they were connected. I don't know
Um, yeah, there's no way look with especially with the epic game store
There is no way that they are going to get rid of fortnite. Yeah
not on purpose
Obviously, yeah, there's no way that's their that is their thing keeping them
Going
Yeah, for sure. All right. Yeah, this wasn't sure if they were connected like china was connected to this whole thing
Anyway, I didn't mean to get off topic there. It was just something that's all right
Let's just pretend there was a super chat that said hey talk about fortnite
Like auger
um
All right
I'm gonna read out the stream labs ones all in a row now
So don't get concerned if you thought you wouldn't next from the super chat ones. I've just got to get them both done
Uh joker is involuntarily fatherless in fat
In fat, uh in italy the mafia caused a garbage strike
Well, I mean the idea that it's not realistic or it wouldn't happen in real life and stuff. I don't buy i'm just like, um
I can believe it pretty sure all these things seem to line up relatively well
Yeah, nothing seems unreal to me i've heard the hero's journey many times but never the villain's journey
I've looked at the hero's cycle and I think that a villain can follow a similar path up and
Up until the reward after the ordeal on the stag you stage list. Ah, yes the villain's journey. I think instead of a reward
It should be either a punishment or a hard dose of reality
I was wondering what are your guys's thoughts on the villain's journey and how would you adjust the hero's journey to make a villain?
Um, that's kind of how I saw joker was an inversion of it because the idea that
heroes go on
Adventures slash journeys that that have events take place where they have to make choices
But yeah, they just take the dark side instead essentially they take like the inverse. So whereas a hero
might use
Empathy and understanding and inner strength to do something good or to do something virtuous a villain
Might let his emotions take control
And he might be angry and upset and he might lash out and he might blame others for his failures or he might
Go, you know lash out of people who aren't responsible
Um, he he won't control himself, you know
He basically just uses bad aspects
Instead of the hero which is supposed to use good aspects. I'm like if you wanted us to
actually like pull up the hero's journey cycle thing and
Try and inverse all of them
That would probably be an interesting thing to do on a like a up on its own or at least um a decent action
but
Yeah, yeah, like uh
You know with it
There's gonna be a lot more tragedy and a lot more. Um
Um unfortunate things happening like in fortunate situations if they thrust into as well as um
The way you'd often justify somebody becoming someone who makes horrible decisions is that a lot of horrible things happen to them
Like they were victims that in turn became monsters
Just you know complicated but interesting nonetheless
Um, maybe the comedy club act was taken as some kind of avant-garde character work
I know arthur took it as an insult, but I tend to agree with doomcock that they wouldn't put him on as a humiliation
Hey, um, I don't know. I just didn't see it that way when I when I saw the film I didn't see it as like, um
Some kind of controversial like wow, they did that to him rather. It seemed just like um
It almost seemed like they might have done it previously. I think maybe that would have helped. Yeah, if they had like
As far as they were concerned they didn't think it would blow up so much
It was just this is just one guy out of a whole city some nobody
And they can use it to get something good for their audience. So
You know how he's like nobody's laughing now and he's like you could say that again pal
It's like oh, so that was very like constructed like they played that clip with the intention of being like, okay denier
You can well not denier but murray you can make this joke
Immediately after the audience will love it and then we move on we can forget about this
This guy who's trying to be a stand-up in this thing
But yeah, I think it it probably would have helped if we'd seen it before maybe like one of the times
They're watching a show they show a clip from a comedy club. That's maybe different like so we can have a setup for it
um
but I don't know that I'd
Totally like the ideas like they wouldn't do that in the late 70s early 80s. So like wouldn't would they not I don't know
Why not
Why not maybe uh, maybe it's something I don't quite understand uh
A large percentage of inmates have mental illness or drug problems
They're just not too sick to be criminally responsible. So they're in jail rather than an asylum, but many of them should have uh should have treatment
is the thing about the uh, a lot of people saying is a part of the message of the film was that um
Just take more care be kinder
These potential members of society and stuff
Um
I once had a friend who constantly brought up his granddad being in the holocaust one day
I put my hand on his shoulder looked at him and said listen, I understand I truly do
My own granddad died in a camp the drunk bastard fell out of a guard tower
It's a tragic story, it's not the way you expect him to go, you know
Not the way you expect it to happen
uh
Yes, the only good Saracen is a dead Saracen deus vult
All right, I was I was actually um googling up uh belayne of Iblan the other day and um
All those guys. Yeah is um, yeah, man. Absolutely
retake Constantinople
Just got back from seeing alien and i'm angry. Why don't we
Why don't we freeze the infected guy gets asked more than once and there's no answer in the film
One line of dialogue would have fixed that plot hole and Ridley Scott was clearly aware of it
Well, isn't it that they think that he's fine
After it gets off him they're like partly convinced that he's okay
Um, i'd have to watch it again. Honestly for some reason that's i'm blanking that in my head, but um
Um
Uh, yeah, that could be a thing. I was just thinking to myself like
I don't know why i've never thought this before but like what about giving him an x-ray after the thing came off his face
Giving him a full scan in general. They'd spot the thing in his chest surely
You think they would have done that but I guess they don't
Um, they're busy they're doing stuff
Uh stuck home with strap, but at least I have efap. No
Efap and strap go together like this
This strap guy sounds like an asshole. Oh, man
orthronic
Well, i've been looking for the blu-ray box of Buffy so I can watch it again
I watched as a child and remember the episode dick kinder start
Really messing me up. Yeah, he's the demon who sucks child's brains out through his eyes
It's really fucking weird
That sounds weird
Um season two, I think
Really mess me up. Can't wait to watch the whole series
Careful going for blu-rays if they're the remastered ones. They're gonna be a disaster. Um
But yes, enjoy have fun
University of washington professor spongebob is a violent racist colonizer
I saw that jesus
Violent racist colonizer that's where we're at. I guess we truly live in a society
uh truly
And ko in one hit don't know what that's referencing. Is it captain marvel getting booted? I remember us mentioning that
I guess I think so. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah because the theater and everyone laughed and yeah
You could call it the marvel cinema cision universe or the mccu
Yeah, what were we talking about with that?
circumcision
all cinema cision universe
Marvel the marvel and the mcu marco marvel circumcised, you know the captain marvel parody. All right. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Uh, efap live is a great distraction from a painful hangover. Thanks guys. P. S. Eric taxon makes a dumpster fire look attractive
Dump supplies can be pretty
Yeah
21 limit 21 minutes late for my weekly efap. My goodness, sir
Any longer we would have had to uh advise a visit to the doctor
He he ho ho poo poo george sauros betrayed the jews
Aha ho ho pp the clinton's killed epstein tihi
hooray
9-11 was dud by j
That's from gay yoda, how how could you jay?
Hey
Oh, no, did you get like grimace memes i've got a shit ton of memes. Um
All cataloged and prepared. I don't know how we're with i'm gonna have to talk to rags about how we're gonna fit this in
Because i've already got the next efap sort of planned and the one after that. Um
I think we can work into it. I
Because I don't I do not I I just don't have the energy for it today. I really don't yeah
Yeah, like we'll we'll figure it out. Don't worry worst case scenario
We just have a really big stream about memes. It'll be fine
We might yeah
We get all the guests on have a nice casual thing and we just talk about stuff and go through memes over the episode
and it could be a
Nice laid back sort of anything go stream
Who knows like the only time we can do memes are either it's like me and rags on our own or
with das bullshit or j or
fringy to an extent
Uh metal yeah regulars like these these are the people that work with memes
But like say for example doom cock and critical drinker god forbid those guys would just be sitting there like what the fuck does eddy of this mean?
We'd be like well
how to explain
Uh, do you know jackson said for the 20th anniversary of lord the rings?
He would release a third cut of the films watch the extended cut behind the scenes plenty of them
Of neither in theatrical or extended. I mean I would watch the shit out of that. Oh i'm very excited
Hard of labor going up. When will that be?
Years
They released 2020 2021 something like that. Give me now
Shouldn't have to wait. I want i'm excited
Uh hard to believe those films are just about 20 years old though. It's it's both crazy and sad. It's like oh, man
We need some more lord the rings
Oh, like just yeah, it's been it's been almost a generation now
Where's the next lord of the rings trilogy level quality stuff?
Look at the hall has it happened. We just like have a video game sort of replaced it or
what I mean
Maybe we just have to give it a bit more time
It's on its way
Gonna save us maybe
Uh, I haven't seen joker yet. So i'll have to leave this for now
I love you all because you're an oasis in this miasma of shit right now. Hello me in four days
I was from lazaru. So hello you four days from
I love you
You know this ragloid phone poles going by at the rate of four to the seventh power put two and two together
Add the 12th and carry the five. What does that come out to?
Seven d nine
Was a brownie a seven d nine or seven t nine
seven seven eleven t nine seven
Yeah, you know see for second seven over three, you know confused, but you know
Glad we cleared that up
Do a shot if you read this 11 hours later only five and a half hours later. Yeah. Oh my god
That's the thing that people can say and actually mean it
Yeah
I'm left wing, but I hate liberal sjw film reviewers
A lot of a lot of people do
well, you know, what's kind of interesting about that is like, you know, there's a lot of
You know people that are still left wing. They consider themselves nothing. It's like the party changed and it got weird
Dude, what happened to my party? It's not that they changed
It was the person changed like the party got weird. It's like I totally I totally believe you
Generally, the left is heading
much further to the left
Yeah, like if you're like, uh, if you are a republican today you are
Like barack obama is closer to republicans today than he is to democrats today
That's how far it shifted and how quickly
Yeah, it got weird really weird
And also like, you know those two people we covered first. So, uh,
The tyt people
Like how frustrating must it be to try and follow them for reviews because you constantly like if you ever see the film
You'd be like, but that's not what happened in the film
like
Like i'm up for a political bias, but you're not even taking the events of the film into account
You're just inventing shit
Yeah, like I can't imagine how frustrated it would be
Joker is the empire strikes back of the dawn saga
I don't see where the dawn and captain model fit into that movie. But I mean with a little bit of tinkering
Yeah, which movie?
Yeah, nope, sorry
Uh juka is racist because it portrays white men and black women as equals. Wait a second
Also white is blocked by super chat. What the fuck?
What he's been spelling. I have had
Oh
Never mind. I thought you were doing something else. Sorry
Yeah, I don't know if it actually is blocked. He's been spelling white obviously differently. So
well, sometimes
Super tats for certain, um, like for certain people to certain creators just don't work like in general
I i've i've heard of that happening before and I don't know if youtube knows how mauler feels about the whites
and they don't want to encourage his
Racetisms fuck the whites. They're the reason why we're here
orange power
I I expected this kind of thing from raw but from you mauler
Very disciplined. I'm orange this month. Okay, i'm different
I don't think be my character has completely changed and been betrayed. Uh, I I left for 30 years
I don't even want to know what I did to all my students in the in the long man camp
A long man camp with who are learning how to be long and lives in the long man lodge
You do realize that critics would say that the gray blobs are coated white
They'd find a way was yeah, they'll always find a way no, no, no, no, no
I don't know about that if
If you're half black and half white so you count as black then surely the gray blobs count as black
Well, it depends on the events of the story
like if the gray blobs attack other gray blobs and the only way we distinguish them is because like say a gray blob has
um
A moustache while the other gray blobs don't they could go as far as being like facial hair
the side of the patriarchy or something like that would be like
Facial hair is a masculine trait and yeah that too. Well, I don't know anymore
I don't know if you could say that facial hair is a masculine trait anymore
That's a transphobic or something. I don't know. All right, so they wear hats
How can they what can they do with that if they were all hats?
One team of gray blobs wear hats and ones ones don't
Hats to shelter. Are you saying that are you saying one side of the gray blobs is naked?
I
I'm saying
I'm curious how that's not true because we've already established in the efap lore that hats are an accessory. Oh, yeah
So if you're looking at them from top down that hat might actually cover most if not all bits depending on how thin you are
How come one of the gray blob groups can't even afford hats?
Yeah, this is right because I don't think there's anything you can do without someone just drawing some crazy shit out of it
We've got income inequality going on pretty pretty privileged of the hats and the hat knots
Where are they getting these hats from there's just this big hat shop
It's like what are they paying with like? Oh, no, we're gonna have to develop more of a gray blob world. They pay in blobs
They pay in more blobs
Um joke has stayed number one for the second weekend so far it's made
550 million the media must be pretty upset with people seeing this film instead of gemini man
Yeah, I know. Oh, yeah, I talk about a film. I just don't give a fuck about yeah
I was gonna say I don't give a shit about gemini man. I just don't give a shit about gemini, man
I almost forgot about it. He's you
Wow, who fucking cares?
But there's like those weird moments with the trailer where he's like he's gonna train you he's gonna make you believe
Sent you after me and i'm like, I don't
The panel's take on screenwriting film courses in post-secondary education
What value do they have or is it just a waste of money and time? My take is depends on the professor and school
They can't help now
Take this with a grain of salt because i've never attended one
Admittedly, um i've never been to one of these classes
however
based on what i've based on what i've seen on efap and what the
educated academic properly classically trained people try to do
I don't it's definitely it's like a lot of schooling. It's not necessary. It might help
But certainly not necessary
Yeah, so I mean I think the best thing to do is to just watch a lot of films and understand what you're seeing
My take would be that I agree with the whole
Professor in school thing like you could end up with a professor and a school that's amazing and they teach you all kinds of things quickly
uh in ways that you'd never forget
but um ultimately that still costs you a shit ton of money more than likely or at least loans and it's like
Anything patrick williams movie bob or myself or critical drinker or rags have learned
Are not things you cannot get from the internet
Um, yeah, that's all we do. We just watch shit on the internet. I've never gone in any classes, you know
Yeah, exactly
And it's like the the thing that's important is just to understand, you know
When you're watching something and you like something you should ask yourself why you like it and can you you know?
Quantify it to somebody who hasn't seen it before and all you got to do is really like, you know
Take in plenty of movies and eventually you'll start to kind of flesh that thinking out better and better and listen to how other people
Describe things. Yeah, just
Yeah, soak it in
Yeah, why are we talking no no why you're doing the things that you're doing
Why are we talking about tlj rise of skywalkers coming out
It is true. We got to get some stuff done before that comes out. We won't be able to take over
We won't be caught up on all the tlj bad takes before this that comes out and then we'll have all the
So when's that supposed to come out again 20 seconds
Something like that. Yeah a little bit before christmas primith. Wow primith
That's before you ride
Right before cometh. Yeah, we'll uh, we'll probably set something up for that. We'll probably have a bunch of guests on
It's gonna be great episode nine
Is gonna be just fantastic. I'm sure of it. Um, that's great
celebrating
An excellent film because that that is the prediction everyone has so far
um
Was anyone else happy? There was no end scene where the penguin shows up like hey
What would you say if I told you I was putting together a team?
Oh my god
And they get the one from gotham too, so he's just bad
It's like a bunch of people standing behind him
But they all have like one identifying feature that ties them to a particular character or like
Do it. I don't reckon there's probably some people in the audience who would have loved that. They'd be like, yes
Exactly what I wanted. He's built a team
Welcome joker
Hail doomcock and efap a sunday treat. Whoo
I mean, yes, yeah the first first three hours were just full on good old fashioned
Doomcock drinker and warrior weekend one. What do you combine all of them into a funny name?
the weekday warlord
critical doom warrior
I mean, yeah, that's something that makes it sound like he he's very much like he chooses his victims. He's like
Maybe a doom. All right. All right. I would say I would probably say cock drinker warrior
Cock drinker on the weekend weekend. Sorry weekend cock drinker
It's a weekend cock drinker
perfect
Oh, there we go doomcock I knew I not could squeeze some out of that doomcock please don't press
the harvey button
It'll be used as am of them to media to attack joker move
I mean the harvey katulu button. This is havery. I think that's supposed to be harvey, but yes
Uh, tyt is so racist. They can't conceive of anyone who isn't white identifying with this character
Oh, yeah, definitely. Yeah, that was a horrible take like i've never heard something's just so terrible before
um
He had interesting take on joker msn hop takes like from cnn who's owned by dell warner brothers
Were an attempt to get people to see the movie for spite thoughts
so the idea that um
They made a movie that was designed to piss off shw types and have the critics of them
Get on it to encourage people of the opposite to encourage the movie and rate it highly and see it
ultimately being
Because cnn is owned by the people who are owned by warner brothers like they're all connected
So it's weird for cnn to be criticizing the movie in any way is kind of where this is going
It doesn't seem like something warner brothers would do
um
Well, I just like I don't really care because i've not really based my praise of the movie
on being
something sjw's don't like
Uh, we've definitely attributed a lot of the motivation behind the criticisms of that but we're trying to talk about today
Yeah, but what we want to talk about is actually like the movie is good irrelevant of of sjw people
Yeah, or whatever cnn has said
And so i'd like to support the movie
Regardless of any of that like I don't really if that's true. Okay, if it's not, okay
Yeah, the movie's good regardless of all that stuff
That's what's important
Uh new efap looks like organizing my wingless butterfly collection has to wait
Yes, they are wingless because I remove the wings
Oh, that's a terrible thing to do that makes me sad. Wait, are they alive?
That makes me legit sad because you can preserve you can preserve well, no if if you
I mean if you do it after they've died, I don't think they care
but like you could preserve uh
like insects and stuff
Yeah, but I miss you. I don't know if that means you do it while they're still alive. I don't know
That's cruel, okay, that's a terrible thing to do you're making me feel
I'm sad now
Uh, I disagree with drinker joker is a heavily political film as we've mentioned class struggle co-option of figures whether they believe what
They do
Um, I think his point wasn't that there's no
Policies in the film is that the film doesn't take a stand on which politics are the correct one
Yeah, both of them are bad
Like that both sides are missing the point and going past each other and causing problems in their own way
Neither of them are the good guys
If anything, it's it the end it's stressing the point of cooperation is key
It's it's a it's a point of you shouldn't be like this
Yeah, I would agree with that
Um
When a movie covers the mentally unstable terrible conditions of the lower class and the poor rising against the rich
But the main character is white
It would honestly just as a study it would be really interesting to see how everyone would have reacted to this film if you only switched
The main the main characters skin colors are black. I wonder it would never absolutely be about oppression
100% and the poor main character is he's uh is like, oh
Yeah, he committed a bunch of murders, but oh, but he was just pushed there by other people and he's not really to blame
It's society has to blame. They do the whole fucking they do the whole he didn't do nothing thing
Oh, yeah, and then movie bob would be all like this doesn't happen
This is a great film. He would he would 180s say this happens all the time to black people's like, yeah, sure bob
Again i'd love to peer into that alternate universe just to see what he'd do. What does this video look like?
Great. Oh, that would be amazing. And I don't even think we need to peer into it. Like we we we can we know we know
uh real movies cause movies apparently
Um, I did the caustisms
Okay, we're real movies. Give me more
I like real movies. Yeah, if that's what it was expected a real movie. I'll watch i'll watch a few more of them
I'm okay with it
I was getting a little tired of fake movies
uh white person bad
All right, yep, are we sure he watched joker and not some other movie, you know, that's the question we always have to ask
Um
Hashtag daphne dorman trans activist and comedian was cancelled to death by twitter for a relationship with dave chappelle
Hashtag cancel cancel culture
Uh-oh, I didn't know that was a thing. That's
Um, I had no idea like what happened to contra points, man
You step one little tiny pinky toe out of line
You're finished. Well, she's back now apparently so it's yeah, she's back now
But jeez, that's the fact that that was a thing that they were they were ready to turn on her in a fucking second
It's like I have a tiny criticism of my party. Fuck you
Like wow, you're worse than hitler
Mm-hmm mauler. I was in wales yesterday at a place called
Glindiff rithu, I guess just wondering if that's the correct way to say it
Oh, well what I just said. Yeah, um, I mean that could actually be wrong
I'd have to check with the people who live there because i've not even heard of that place
uh
also, hi wags
Hello
My dad believes that the movie is a statement on how we treat the mentally ill in america. So I don't know
You know, I think there's definitely room to it's been oh, yeah without a doubt
Absolutely. Yeah, like big cities and stuff. Oh, man, they're they're dumped on the street and they're left there. It's crazy
I hate how progressives act like only a certain segment of the population has a monopoly on suffering also. Hi wags
Hello
and yeah, yeah, it doesn't really matter what
skin color you have or what sexuality you have or whatever else like suffering is um
It's a human experience for the most part. Everybody's got a piece of it
um
Just gets complicated. It's reminding me of the whole um
White people don't always like to be poor statement
Like stuff like that. I'm just like oh
Don't say that
Uh, is this the most ambitious crossover efap ever
I I don't know what would be considered the most ambitious probably epsil 50. It's gotta be
molar rags and weekend cock drinker, man, that's gonna be
I was gonna make some horrible drawing of the weekend cock drinker. Oh my god. It's the three profile pictures
amalgam into this
Bayou and stop right now stop that put the pencil down never never
Um
Mola my friend and oh wait mola my friend and I made a joke because of ray's force
Downloading that the reason anakin had to kill the younglings to free up bandwidth so palps could download all the force powers
I mean
It makes sense
Children often instead of tech support you have like force support you got a column
Like I just I think i've paid for more force
It seems like a lot of users are on your line right now
We have youngling 123 youngling 661 young and he's like, oh, give me a sec
Just slashing
You need to upgrade your package if you're gonna have this many younglings accessing the force from your address at one time
We have warned you several times, sir. Do not shout
Hey guys, how about when he gets inside? Oh god
You
Turd her against me
Hey guys
How about when he gets inside the icebox and the rest of the movie his delusions of what he wanted to happen as he dies
inside the icebox
Let's go
What I meant about how you can pick a lot of different points in the film for when the delusions fully take over or don't
Yeah, that's that's an interesting one
Yeah, a little bit of a jacob's ladder take on that one
As I see it arthur only hallucinated when he was on meds having him hallucinating after he became the joker diminishes the impact of his action
I mean sure if you look at it from the outside perspective not his perspective
I was going to say isn't the meaning of the only perspective that we potentially see everything from
Yeah, I kind of um
I think it means a lot that we see what he would consider
Um a good ending to himself, you know whether or not it was hallucinated
Fascinating to see if we were told that was just his imagination running out what he thinks would be a good ending for himself
Wow
Especially after everything we've seen with him. I don't know
Um at the end when he's in the asylum, it cuts back to bruce wayne after his parents are shot meaning it was all real
Meaning it was all real does that mean it was all real
Say that again
At the end when he's in the asylum it cuts back to bruce wayne after his parents were shot meaning it was all real
Not necessarily that could just be joker's idea of what happened
I mean wouldn't in his in his fantasies. He would fantasize about the waynes being killed like that
Yeah, you know and he knows bruce so he might see it as like
All of this could result in bruce suffering just as much as I have
You know have to see the movie again
But I swear that he probably at least saw them dead in the alley before the ambulance hit I could be wrong
I'd have to see it again
We'll see
Um, I serve our grand overlord no matter what his views may or may not be on the orphan question
I assume that's relating to mr. Doomcock who i'm sure he would agree with us on the orphan question. Let's be honest
White people don't get to have problems. Oh
Apparently. Yep. I know. I mean i'm
White ish. I mean i'm pink underneath all the fluff and I walk down the street and people just
Oh shit, like I thought he was throwing money at me. They offer me jobs degrees and diplomas
Oh, did you get the guy who comes up to you and offers you the pill that cures all diseases permanently
Just for you though. Oh, yeah, man. Pretty cool. Just for me just for me and my white friends
And it constantly makes you athletic and of the of a good healthy weight
Like it's it's just a great pill
But there's only enough. I'd agree pure bread
Only enough for all of the whites
Hey guys, I live in the same town as ihe
So if we could get some efap slash rags mitch, then i'd love to see if he'd react to it at all
What do you mean like walk around in front of him with a rag shit on just to see if he's like
I mean, yeah, I should I actually got an email from a place
Talking about merch and everything so that
I mean i've always considered it and I have stuff kind of lined up for it
But I never really jumped on it, but I guess maybe I should certainly efap might be able to
Honestly, I always feel bad. It's like i'm I swear to god eventually at some point it'll happen. I just was to figure out
Those are little bits and bobs to go over that. I never go over because i'm busy doing other things, but
Eventually, we've got to get an efap mug an efap
You have an efap mug club efap body pillow get a shirt of uh, just get a shirt of uh strata meyers. Uh mauler wolf rags
Hybrid thing the cat dog thing without any context. Oh, yeah, and you can have like efap body pillow, but it just it's so long
it goes like it's just
It just goes outside of the room into different rooms. He's like that's the way it should be
You have to like wrap it several times around you at all
Function drinking straws that are like 12 feet long
Uh
If arthur's problems are made up so is transgenderism
Oh, right because at one point wasn't it balb
It wasn't bob. It wasn't the other guy who said like whatever is made up problems are no, that was the tyt guy. Oh, yeah
oh
um
I think what he was going for in that was he assumed it was a fictional issue, right? That was
I mean, that's the charitable interpretation. I I don't know what he was really saying. That's the thing with people like this
Who knows what crazy shit? They're really mean, you know, yeah, like because they're peace people are out there. So who knows what they mean?
They come such a there was such a weird comment from movie bob. I mean he is in his 30s, isn't he?
I
Mean it's hard to tell by looking at him. Honestly, I mean he strikes me as he's been doing this a while
He kind of strikes me as somebody's in his 30s
So he should have known that things spread like, you know, virally through
Non-internet memes. I don't know that was just so weird to me
I mean if you go to the world war two memorial in dc there's a killer. Roy is was here
Engraving on one of the stones. So
Like memes predate the internet. The internet just accelerated them. Absolutely
They move faster on the internet is all yeah, it just sped up something that already existed
Like we had cultural icons that were basically ubiquitous in society
Yeah
Jesse eisenberg's lex luther is arthur flex son
That like
comics or is that just some gun in four because I mean
Yeah
I mean they do a ball work with jesse eisenberg's lex luther because whoa
Oh
Well, everything is a disaster. Anyway, uh, not sure but when he found out he was abused as a kid
Didn't he realize his condition was all in his head or something?
Um, I remember there's there is a part in the film that implies something like that. I need to see it again
I only saw it the one time
Um, but I remember reading something about his condition
Uh
Maybe being in his head which which I had something to it. But again, I'd have to confirm
Um, the girlfriend reveal really put me off and I thought the celebration ending ran counter to the message
Uh, oh
I really I really like the reveal
The girlfriend reveal i'm curious what you didn't like about it
And the celebration ending ran counter to the message
So I think that he's trying to say that the message is that this stuff is bad, but then he's being celebrated
The thing is being celebrated by the people who are on his team. So like yeah, definitely not by the good people
Yeah
If anything, it's just kind of showing him how he has followers to begin with and that will have the joker gets these henchmen
You know because like they were loyal followers since before he took up the persona
It's saying seven out of ten. Also. Hi rags
Hello
Uh, kick j bowman. Oh
Oh shit him because he's not on the show but oh
Whoa, um, but man if you had him in a room and you're just asking him that you've been really
The uh, the only good commies are dead call me kill them all and let god sort him out deus vult
All right, is that raw no, it's william ice bane
Oh, okay. Understandable. Understandable. Uh j said joker had zero character development and mike was like he becomes the joker
Yeah
It was great, yeah, uh, like I said j was very tisby in that video
Yeah, that was awkward
strange very strange
We should kick j like those kids kicked off the fleck which j am I talking about is up for interpretation
Oh
Take your pick
um
DYT also denies the armenian genocide, which makes sense since the young tics with the organization behind said genocide
I've seen loads of awkward videos about that like where they get asked about it and they're just like
It's gonna be really hard to top that idiot that said america deserved 9 11 my god, they'll try that's geck uger's, uh, nephew
Yeah, I didn't know his name. So I just call him that yeah, son piker. Yeah. No, you're right though
Some commie socialist dancy's some loser fucking idiot. Um, it's not a little wannabe revolutionary
brown fabio
from rah
This is this is his first one. He said I just woke up. I thought I wasn't going to be angry today
Oh, well, you guys should look at the article about oscar voters reacting to it
I'll try and send some if youtube doesn't make my chats glitch
So now the game is open when I read a super chat if you want to try and guess if it was raw go for it
I guess what we'll do
Um, I was baffled when we got out of the theater and my mom said the movie was very white versus black
She said the riot scenes had mostly black people afros and looked like la race riots from the 90s
Jesus christ, he was keeping count. I did not get that impression
It was dark and they were all in masks and I I know
I guess they based it on afros
Raw what do you think raw raw we need your input on this one. I need your opinion on the afros
Uh, even sjw's don't like woke comedy rip lily sing
Oh
Like woke comedy i'm trying to think of what I don't even know famous like woke comedians
Wasn't there? Um, what was that one gal? Um
It was really bad, uh, there was like no comedy and she was just weeping on stage
Anti-comedy and shit. I know in the dankula documentary. There was that one place that was just like fucking painful
Yeah, i'm trying to think of some of the jokes they told like
The the kind of things that would be edgy for a baby
Like whoa, I'm blown away
See people are saying amy schumer. No, I've I saw at least half of an amy schumer comedy special
She you know, she was talking about like diary and stuff. I don't think he's talking about her vagina and shit
If you're a female comedian
You bet you're basically contractually obligated to talk about your vagina every four seconds
They're a still woman. I think to a degree. Yeah, didn't she get in trouble because she dressed up in black
I think the woke ate her on something. So I think she also just got ostracized. I just swore it was a blackface thing
I could be wrong
A lot of people ended up doing blackface back in the day, unfortunately for them. Oh, was that it was a kathy griffith?
I think that's who it was
She's the one that did the trump head thing, right
Painfully, I think that's what it was. Yeah, she then she lost her sponsors and stuff
Shit, I don't remember it was just it was dead it was that bad. I just couldn't really remember her name at that point
Oh, oh hannah gaspy. That's the one
Yeah, good news you get to have intercourse with a god
Here's a follow-up, but I was waiting for someone to say wow, that's good news
But apparently that was that's talking about um
Captain marvel
Porno. Oh, well, no
There's a second part to this. I was just waiting to see what your reactions were at first
Just to gauge it before I revealed the second half
Oh confusion
Bad news. It's zeus and you're gonna get mail preg
Oh
Oh, no, um
Arthur kills his mom and co-worker ageist and boldest
He's very boldest bold boldest
Uh, hi rags thoughts on the last of us everyone
Is fine, it's fine
I I like the characters the two
main peeps
Story was was good enough. If not a little drawn out for me
In terms of like yeah, it was fine felt like we were going to
Similar places a lot and then the mechanics were pretty meh. I got over them after like an hour. I was already kind of bored with them
Yeah, I subjectively i'm really looking forward to the next one though. That's your based on based on like the characters and story
Yes, you're absolutely 100 correct
Nailed it. Um original power rangers casting wasn't racist but accidentally cast the black male as the black ranger and the asian female
As the yellow ranger now to prevent this racist casting. They have actors line up by race to audition
Wait, really wait, really
What what
He said the original power rangers were accidentally cast with the black guy being the black ranger and the asian female being the yellow one
Uh ranger and and he said now to prevent this racist casting. They have actors line up by race to audition
I don't know if that's line up by race. I don't know if that's proven but wow if that's true
That does seem like an overcorrection that could happen
Well, they think there's there are people who think that reparations is a good idea
So I think overcorrection is not something they're saying. You're not at fault for the p of your ancestors actions
Oh, yeah, I was I was there and I condoned it and I had like 12 slaves myself you badman shame
They didn't shame them and survived the winner
Am apostrophe in real white men don't have reaction reasons to hate x y and z good thing i'm a
Sand nick
Is fine I did i'm pronouncing a word that's completely acceptable
I didn't see this word in twitch's list. That'd be youtube's list
No cap on my hatred. This guy's effeminate tonsils should be ripped out
No comment, all right
This guy sounds like he just read a synopsis of the film I think you give it too much credit for that
Uh, you guys should react to freddy prince jr's recent rant on star wars fans also buy rags
on
The list and goodbye. Yep. We'll we'll get there
Wasn't planning to watch joker, but doom cocks review convinced me otherwise hail doom cock
It was great and the stupidly bad reviews are almost better. I mean, there's always it happens. It always happens
Can we throw tyt off a roof?
It's all going to be about if rah has the capabilities. There's a lot of people in the tyt team
Don't know how he's going to tie them up the roof
I wonder if tyt had a comment on the whole islam thing on the whole what
Islam was right about women. No, no you
Yeah, um, i'm gonna guess they say um, not real islam and
Because they do muslim apologia all the time
Yeah
um
If a work of art draws an emotional response out of you
It's a better work of art than something that's more technically competent competent. I don't know. That's a quote from mike stoklasa
Um said a quote one more time if a work of art draws an emotional response out of you
It's a better work of art than something that's more technically competent
So the problem with that statement is there's a lot of definitions we got to do. Yeah
I need to know what he can because the thing is this could be a like
Autological if if his definition of art is something that draws emotional responses out of you
Then of course, yeah, it would be better if it did that rather than not doing that
Yeah, of course. Um, it art is one of the messiest things to pick down. It's very ambiguously defined
Um, it could be applied to basically anything in a subjective sense and well, it's it's very
And yeah, I did just say this is art. This is not art but
I I mean it's just there are there's probably a great deal of individual standards for what is art and or not
You know and if he was talking about um
Let's literally just go with something really entertaining, but makes no sense. This is something that's coherent and is boring
Uh, then I would just have to figure out what standard he's going by if it's literally a standard of entertainment
Then yeah, I guess you'd be right. But again, this would change with like every person so
Like if the next guy says well, I didn't find it boring and the next guy's like, well I did and just like
Conversations not really going anywhere
Wait, um
I know good rap makes me emotional. Yeah
Going off your meds doesn't make you a genius that can commit murder. Uh pal. Have you heard of this thing called fpi statistics?
Going off your meds doesn't make you a genius that can commit murder. What's that gonna do with fpi statistics?
I don't know. You don't have to you don't necessarily have to be a genius to
Get away with
in a city environment like that where there's no witnesses and no cameras and the technology isn't the same as it is today and
even then the detectives were pretty close to his uh,
Harry and their they were really curious about him. So even then
but
you know, it's a
I mean, who knows what each individual is capable of if they don't get the right medication or they do or
Who knows? It's it's a messy thing
um
What are you gonna say?
Uh, it just kind of slipped away. It's okay. Keep going. Oh fine
I agree rags 100
They even had a notice from the military base near me about potential shootings in opening weekend
How did this movie make everybody literally lose their minds?
I don't know. I'm not exactly sure it
uh, I think a lot of people can't they can't let the opportunity to use a popular film or media thing coming out they can't
They can't resist the opportunity to try and turn that into something that supports their politics or something
They can talk about and morph into their message. And if it doesn't
Um, or if it goes both ways then they might lash out at it if they feel that it's the other way around
Uh, I mean guy forks was a failed assassin who wanted to bring back a christian theocracy and he's become a symbol of
anti-establishmentarianism
I guess that's in response to the idea that this stuff doesn't wouldn't happen this way in real life
But uh, I mean yeah, there's probably
An insane amount of examples of you know, if you know the right person gets assassinated or if there's an attempt
Wasn't it a comment from jay?
The um, he doesn't believe that the three murders in the comments from thomas wayne would have resulted in people protesting
That's insane like every time some thug gets shot by police there's protests. I mean like what?
Like it doesn't it doesn't matter who they could be anybody like you could have people who are just like legit
violent and
You know criminal and they could get killed attacking cops or whatnot and people will fill the streets complaining about all this injustice
Uh, duh, this would never happen. Hello rodney king riot department airlift this into the congo right now
Bring on sargon to get more black representation. That's true
Sargon is 25% black
Did he uh, did he get like uh, did he put that on a video like proof wise or is it just somebody he said?
Oh, I actually have no idea I I don't know yeah, it's it's apparently that's what he says
I mean, I I'll take it. I'll take him in his word for that. I don't know if he was like a meme or not
I don't think it's a meme. I think he's serious about it
I don't normally I don't normally think about it
He please he says it jokingly, but I think it is true probably because
I think we're not doing you often consider how black everyone is right?
No, I don't you know, I know it makes me I know that makes me racist to not
Do that I know being I know being colorblind is the new racism
But I don't know. I guess all the habits die hard, you know, you recognize that's the important part. You recognize how awful you are
I recognize how racist I am. Yeah
um
Shays rebellion was violent attacks on government properties in 1786 by former military men turned farmers
Does that count as violent lower class uprising in american history basic u.s history?
I'm not sure which particular point that's responding to I know that at one point
I think movie bob said that it hasn't happened within the last 30 years or something, right? He said that
But um one one person never started a revolution or something
This is the thing
It wouldn't even matter if it hadn't happened
Because everything follows in the film like that you can see how it all came to be
If you were like, but this has never happened in real life
I'd be like there's a lot of things that haven't happened in real life that can happen
Well in that and he's just missing the fact that this isn't even this isn't based on a true story
It's a freaking fictional story with a fictional character
Weird dude
It's obvious that this guy wasn't alive when new york city was a crime-ridden bankrupt place
Probably not
Seeing the film tonight and don't want to spoil myself
So drop in some support for this all-star cast hail doom cog cheers drinker. Also. Hi rags
Hello
Sent you a present via twitter
Looks like a guy swimming a bomb hashtag tlj and then a present
I have not looked at my twitter yet today. Um
I'll be sure to collect any and all meme-age
Clarify last week's super chat the msm will disappear entirely and the alt media will be the only game left in town
I can't remember what I don't know
Oh sweet, it's like the thing of it is like
Alt media like is kind of trying to conform
You know keeping down the language and reporting only certain stories
In order to you know
Keep their bottom line going to the point where it's like I gotta wonder if they'll just kind of merge into each other and
And they'll become mainstream and then the cycle will continue
Yeah, is this such a thing as a non-lude hand holding
Nope
Hand holding is very specifically sexual
Did you lead tortoise this they touched fingers? Yeah, don't absolutely don't touch those fingers. God, stop it
Um
Just look don't touch
Real people don't do that, bro
I have personally been more senselessly mean to sorority hookups like patrick bateman tier than those people were to arthur
A defenseless handicapped man handicapped man
People are mean
I agree rah people are mean people can be mean people are mean
I I'm glad raul's rah has recognized it. Mm-hmm. Yep. What is going through this person's mind?
I mean the mental gymnastics he goes through to make his point is olympic level with shit
Olympic levels with sorry
and yes
uh, it is
Whether or not that's tyt or movie bob they're both kind of insane, but that's not
really a surprise
Yeah, the olympic on touch your taint was bad like wow
It was like he's got a problem with black people and then his first kill are white people
like
You missed that part. Oh and intentionally got it almost like he has a problem with
assholes rather than
Ladies and gentlemen drum roll, please it's time for cine marroberto
Wrought his c game for sure
Bring cenk on to guest and make him read my super chats. That was from rah
As if he would ever come on e5 could you imagine thank you again like hey man, no, no
What do you think of joke?
Well, I have a lot of things to say about that
This person rah, could you you bad them from your chat? We're like
No, please
The question is would he decline of course he would decline of course
Of course
Of course
I think the great british podcast already reviewed cinema roberto's take on this basic conclusion
He's a moron of galactic proportions. I have not seen their
Newest video. I believe it
Who uh great british podcast i've not seen the newest one yet. So, uh, yeah, I don't know if they covered it or not
But yeah, it's a movie bob is just the gift that keeps on keeps on giving
Um, oh movie blob the king of the huts rah roof
Wow
Uh sargon is here maula alt right confirmed. Oh wait sargon is here maula alt right confirmed. There you go
Ah
truly massive
Still pooping with my door open rags
But we tried to stop well, I mean that's that's a
Sorry dude
Hi rags, kick maula. Oh
Sorry maula, but you've got to go
Wow, all my three legs all my favorite guys in one place except wolf isn't there
wait, so
All of your favorites are weekend warrior doom cock critical drinker rags me and wolf. It's not bad as a selection
Not bad at all
weekend
cock drinker
weekend cock drinker
Uh joker was the most horrifyingly amazing movie and perhaps the best acting i've ever seen
He did a great job. There's no doubt
Oh, yeah
Um, what a lineup tonight. Cheers lads. No problem
Joker is our black panther
Have you seen that meme going around?
It was like one of the reviews is like joker is my black panther
Yep, seeing that
um
Listen to jay barwood's opinions on joker rlm
He you can clearly tell jay has pissed off a lot of people with his joker take
Honestly, the funny thing is yeah people turning on
Rlm crew members. I mean you're supposed to really fucked up
I would actually say his take was worse than um
Uh, like the guy from uh angry joe
Like at least oh, yeah jay's was worse. Yeah, um, but it's not worse than cine marroberto or um,
Or the tyt guy
If sjw revolution happened 15 years ago catwoman would have won 30 oscars and batman begins wouldn't be screened anywhere due to all the roof throwing
Why is why is that a theme now? Rah you've thrown so many people off rooftops other people are doing it
Um, happy belated birthday maula have some booze money. I thank you
The greatest of them all are the wags marines courage and honor rags ego would definitely make him an ultramarine
maula's an inquisitor
Have to take your word on that i'm not familiar with the the groups and all that. Yeah, i'm game. All right
Yeah, uh, happy belated birthday long man
Happy belated long man. Sorry started watching your stuff a year ago, and I always wonder just how long you guys are
Well, they say we're long pretty pretty long. We're definitely above average
Uh, bob called the jennifer gana thriller peppermint as alt right because she's avenging her daughter's death from an immigrant
I didn't even know that was a film jennifer gana
Gets revenge
Someone killing her daughter
Print is called peppermint
Oh, okay, apparently
Huh
Sounds kind of like a death sentence to me, but yeah
Basically, if bob says it's good avoid it if bob says it's bad. Check it out. It's like a decent rule of thumb
Yeah, just like yeah, just a good little guiding guiding principle
If the only way to wipe every disney star wars film that is or will ever be from existence
Was to bang a movie bob who had not showered in eight weeks. Would you do it or are you a coward?
so
I'm a coward
Eight weeks what?
You got a bag movie bob who hasn't showered at eight weeks
Why it'll erase all of disney's disastrous star wars films
I don't think I'd do it. Dang. No
That kind of courage is not something you can just you know summon. I'm i've always been a i've always been a man of the people
Take one for the team would
That's
That's tough
I mean, maybe if I close my eyes and think of the queen it'll I don't know
I don't know. I'll get you there. Maybe
He's got to be facing away from me. That's fucking given put a bag over his head
I don't know if you're allowed to do that. There's always that's why we have
Rags you understand the spirit of the question. I don't think you could do that
No, no, no, no, this is one of the questions where we gotta go into the nitty gritty
I need I need to deets on this one. We need a whole other refab for this motherfucker
Good question calculations
Uh dafrak is going on with movie bob's cheekbones
Don't wait. I explained this his face got dislodged and stretched like, you know, like putty
and
Just of that particular like bread
Like butter scraped over too much bread. I like butter scraped over too much bread. Yeah
All bread is covered over too much butter. You know, either one brad brad
This bad doesn't mean it's bad
Hey mullet, do you think movie bob goes to the cinema buys a ticket to joker sees the lion king or something else and then makes
his vid on joker
There's a good chance like maybe as he's walking out of the movie he talks to some people
You know walking to the exit of people who went to go see joker
And he just formulates in his head what happened in the movie based on the
Off the cuff impressions of rend of a couple random people who saw it
And then he asked them to speak in run-on sentences
Uh, would you rather be a jew in world war two germany or live in the dead space universe
I live in the dead space. Well
I'm living the dead space universe. Yeah, I mean you could still be like a marine style person in dead space universe
And I mean there's like earth and everywhere like the the influence of the marker hadn't spread through all of didn't it by
By dead space three it did didn't it
By dead space three you toward the end of the dlc
I never went to the I never played the dlc all fucked up by the end of dead space three like your
selection of dead space three begins on
Uh, let me double check. Uh
It's on another I know it's not earth. I know it's on another planet. It's somewhere. It's somewhere in the
It begins with
Let's see gameplay
Um
I because I want to find out where it begins
um
Because I know like earth gov is still a thing
um
Let's see
Uh, i'm gonna read this real quick i'm almost certain that like earth is fucked in dead space three's finale and the oh it's on
the moon
oh
so
Dead space three opens up on the moon
Which is of course very very close to earth. Actually that change that might change my answer
Um dead space three starts on the moon
uh
Because the sprawl was on titan that's a moon of jupiter
Because like it with every with every dead space game it gets closer to earth
So dead space one was at you know, the aegis seven which is a big jump away
Dead space two begins on the sprawl which is on titan
And dead space three begins on the moon, which is you know, basically at earth
Yeah, and by the end of the dlc they say oh shit. It's on earth
That was it. So
Because yeah, if
Because that would actually change
Saturn all right, it's saturn. Not uh, not jupiter. I thought it was jupiter. I must be confusing it with something
But maybe i'll squeeze it with io or whatever but or europa
But saturn saturn's were tightness
but still
I don't know. I might do it. Yeah, i'd go with you in
1940s germany
With that information
Yeah, I feel like we're doomed in the dead space universe at that point. Yeah, because in the dead space universe, um
um
the the effects of the marker are
They're mental
And there's no like inoculation against it as far as i'm aware
You can't take like preventative measures. You can't
Um get a cure for it
Um become a horrible monster and go blah
Yeah, it basically if it comes to where you are, you're pretty fucked. I think if you get out fast enough, you'll be okay
but
That's a that's a big maybe. Um, because remember when in the first dead space
It was subtle at first so people didn't think much of it
And then by the time everyone realized that it was really really bad
Well, it was already too late and then the colonists had come to the Ishimura and then it spread from there
And then you had the unitologist, you know making things difficult as well. So yeah, I whereas, you know in the real world
You know, you could hide from you know, nazis and stuff like that. So
Yeah, I would um, i'd choose nazi. Yeah
Here you go. Wow. That was I bet they didn't expect that kind of answer
Well, i'm i'm a huge fan. I really like dead space i've played the first game
Probably half a dozen times through probably played the second game another half a dozen times through I played the third one
probably twice
um
So I really really do like dead space
I'm so I mean what happened to visceral I was gonna say if you haven't played dead space play them
What I was alluding to is all three of us are like we're clearly aware of like dead space stuff. Yeah
You never know dead space three was uh, it wasn't bad
It was like it was fun, but it kind of lost everything that made it dead space
Yeah, it didn't feel it doesn't feel like a dead space game. It's not a bad game. I mean it is functional
Uh, there's there's some really cool ideas there
But I think the execution was kind of lacking. Isn't that game one of the earliest examples of microtransactions?
Yeah, definitely. It was a single player game
They put co-op in it and then they changed the entire ammunition system so that it could support universal ammo
Which you could buy and stuff like that. Um, a lot of a lot of microtransactions
That being really controversial because the game is the game is not difficult. Uh, the dead space three in fact is
Very easy. You you will constantly have to drop resources
Yeah, even on hard. The hardest mode is still easy. Yeah hardest mode is uh
Uh joker actually could beat batman. He's just a little kid
True
I've said this and I will stand by it even the worst animated dc movie is better
Most of the average dc live-action movies animated dc for the win, baby
Probably true, you know, this means in the joker the joker movie universe batman knows what joker tastes like
Oh
Yeah, first I was like the way rags delivered that i'm pretty sure he's serious
So what is he referring to and I had to think about it for what?
He made me smile but in wrong ways
It's true though, uh movie bob is re-pippest garbage commentary
And yet he has so many people watching him. How did it happen? It's one of its wonders
Hello chat look at look at chad's reactions rags really confused about that
Hey, it's I just I don't like the rules. I just comment on what's on the screen rags hasn't actually said anything controversial
If you know what he's talking about
Makes sense. That's true
Uh rags my door is always open because that's how I poo
Oh
Your back door is always over
Maybe they just they've grown up with the door open
Wasn't that a story about wings of redemption is that he's so used to having his door open when he poops that he was over
Friend's house. There's like three people pissing. Yeah, just see him and he's like
He's like well, at least I wasn't taking a shit
He's a fascinating character
Uh, wait did jay don't like joker why oh, yeah, so i've seen people discussing this already. I guess we
Jay bowman and jay xe are two different people but
It's allegedly i've never seen i've never seen jay bowman and jay xe in the same room together. So
But like anybody who doesn't watch red light media will be like why didn't jay like joker?
Why is jay having bad takes you'd be like i'm sorry. Oh, yeah. I didn't realize that
Yeah, we met a different jay. I'm so
So
Well, this is all I have to say go away now
This massive needs to have his bung hole prolapsed by a rusty morning star
I know what that is. Oh my
Because I think it was in one of the combat games. No the morning star
Oh, yeah
um
Movie bob always looks odd one too because it's on a chain
Is it on chain I thought it was a stick yeah morning morning stars are on the chain evening stars are on the stick
Well, and I learned something new
Must have been such an interesting way to figure it out in terms of naming conventions like
maybe they
I just had just to check because sometimes names with um
Well, uh, okay, so this
Morning star is often flails. They're often called flails too
But maybe we need shad for it. But to my understanding a flail or a morning star
is on a chain
but a
Mace or like an evening star is on it has a half to it
It's it's on a shaft with a handle and there's no chain involved
so
Now here's the thing
Just just double checking
I see
Them both so I see flails called morning stars. I see morning stars called maces. I see evening star is also called maces
so apparently the term so the terminology seems very very askew i'm getting a lot of um
I'm getting a lot of mixed signals here
Because I know in because in uh, like in mordhau the evening star is on a long it's two-handed weapon
That's on a long shaft
The flails are always on the chain
What I've seen like this totally layman is the morning star that has spikes all over and then evening star has
Specific spikes sort of setup. I don't know
All I ever knew was there was a character mall combat that had a morning star and it was just a stick with a
Thing a circle at the end with a bunch of spikes on it
That's that's my that's the extent of my morning star knowledge
so wikipedia says that it's
um
Morning star is any of several medieval club like weapons consisting of a shaft with an attached ball adorned with one or more spikes
um
So there's there's different sets here
They also have morning star left next to a ball and chain flail, but i've i've heard ball and chain flails called morning stars
So we should we should consult shad. Yeah, i'm gonna put that shad
What is the i'm gonna put in so now in chat I see morning star is the shape of the ball
So that would make more sense because a morning star could then be on the end
Of a of just a straight shaft or on the end of a flail like it like a chain, which would make sense
Yeah, I mean looking at google images
The main thing I was noticing is the difference in the way that the end part is shaped or spiked
Yeah, because it even says that the morning star is a medieval weapon consisting of a spike ball mounting on a shaft resembling a mace
The spikes distinguish it from a mace which can have at most flanges or small knobs
We will consult father shad upon this interesting. We must we must find out the difference between morning stars
evening stars maces
flails
And don't forget uh
Maces don't have chains do we need to classify whether I don't think so any of them will stick like well, I think flails do
Yeah, flails do i'm pretty sure mace. So a morning star on a chain makes it a flail then
but it's a
Uh mace if it doesn't have the the chain so it's not a flail. Yeah, pretty sure about that
I think so
Movie bob always looks towards everything besides the movie itself to explain how the movie review he's talking about is bad
Sounds like the properties of an awful film critic
What do you mean? He's he's the only one that patrick willams was like, hey, he's a good youtuber one
Though you probably throw just right into that list now because their buddies
The two remaining traditional reviewers
Um, are you going to take the objectivity pill or are you just another massive?
Uh, is that like the matrix version of efap?
Is uh, i'd watch it I would write and produce it I would direct what if we might be in the efap matrix right now
Oh god
oh no
Joker is a ripoff of the original willy wonka the umpa lumpas in that movie have green hair just like joker arthur is from lumpa land
The lumpa lore is deep. I was gonna say I can't say that that isn't true. I i'm not
Maybe
Uh maula, I met paul rudd recently and told him you sound like you're from london
It's a great quote. How would you feel if paul rudd approached you and said you sound like you're from london maula?
I'd have a lot of questions
Like paul rudd, why do you want to say this to me? You know me?
What are you doing here?
Did you really catch a plane just to ask me that this is a strange situation paul rudd
I'm gonna keep calling him paul rudd as well. Not paul
Oh mr rudd just paul rudd, um
Didn't movie bob praise tlj for following the king arthur storyline wouldn't that be a rip-off by his standards here?
I don't know. I don't know how it works. Yes. He did
Mention that it it tells the story of like it it's supposed to be like what happens to king arthur after king arthur
That's what luke is and he says that's what makes it good
I'd i'd have to watch it again. It was another nightmare video to listen to what happens to king arthur after king
unless they're talking about
well, I guess
I really like that scene where arthur sat down after he put his mom
Mom to bed as we and we as an audience watched the entirety of birth of a nation with him
I mean, yeah, it was a weird part of the film. Yeah, that's a good good wholesome
Family values. I think like a lot of people felt like it it padded the runtime a bit
But I don't think so like it felt natural that that would be on the time time has just happened
Runtime is just what happens when the slaves escape
Yeah, that makes sense
Arthur spared the midget he is from lumpa land
Oh, yeah, arthur knows he's yeah
uh, hi rags
Hello, I went to the shooting range for the first time. Do you prefer an assault rifle or a carbine?
I've never used an assault rifle before. Um, i've got a couple carbines though. Um,
I prefer larger
I mean I prefer carbines over
Pistols, I mean and a carbine can be an assault rifle
So it's an odd question, but I mean I prefer rifles to pistols
Rifles generally are pretty much up at the top for me
Just more accurate more comfortable to shoot more satisfying to
Use I feel just me though
Um, and let's say armory is selling ks47s though for 650 and they're on sale right now
So kind of thinking about pulling the proverbial trigger on it. I don't know. I continue like it. Also, uh,
I meant to say you got your sword after right?
Uh february is when it arrives. Okay
Funny how
Like if I ordered like I don't know really complicated really expensive like laptop that needs to be constructed or something
They'd probably be way faster than that. They would with a sword. It's like
The technology difference if you know what I mean, it's kind of interesting, but it makes sense
So like if I wanted to order a super complicated
Let's say laptop that needs to be constructed from those different pieces and deliver it to me from whatever
Outlet it probably wouldn't take anywhere near as long like it would be like maybe a month at most compared to like if you buy a sword
Yeah, because it would yeah because it would it would depend on
Like it's a configuration issue
Um, and if it was custom parts, it would probably be mostly like plastics and stuff
Because there's such a wide variety of different computer components. What you want is probably out there
It's just a matter of assembling it together
but getting a custom sword made is one of those things where a dude's got to make it and he's got to
Put the time and effort in to make it right and do all that stuff. I mean like it it's it's taking them
Like I like I have like a a year like a nine month year long or so wait for mine
And I put mine in you know a long time ago and it arrives around february
Yeah, it'd be cool you're gonna take pictures and upload them to your to your twitter to your facebook to your instagram
Oh man when I get my sword, oh, yeah, hell yeah i'm taking pictures of it i'm gonna get it
You have to update your um, forward as well that artwork to have a sword in the background
Isn't it kind of a bitch to like make
Like really the longer or more metal you got to use like the worse it is and easier it is to screw up
Yeah, I mean it's much easier to make a
make a like a dagger than it is to make a sword because it can't warp and
stuff like that and yeah more metal to mess up and
You know that sort of thing
I would imagine at least based on what I know about heating and hammering and cooling and stuff like that
Because if you don't cool it the right way, it'll like crack and break and
Confirmed anime weave. How the fuck is anything that i've said like like a weevoo?
I don't know anything about anime. I haven't watched anime in here
Why did you bite that question so hard like
Calling me an anime weave, how dare you
Learn your fucking place
Um, but yeah that question edit as well with give buddy to regs shall be done
Um, hello. Hello my metatextual n words
Hello. Hello. So hi regs
Hello. Hey, is this critically apex metatextual?
I mean apex metatextual don't think anyone can take that
From him. So i'm gonna go ahead and say yes for now
It's impressive
Regarding why critics don't get good movies promote and promote bad
Written ones dave cullen recently suggested if we're all being played because those critics are paid for ratings to create controversy
I mean i've met plenty of real people who do hold the positions they hold I did
Like movie bob special, you know, because there's a lot of people we disagree with but they still like for example as far as i'm aware
Eric or patricia taxon thinks joker is very good
so it's not like
You know
All of the broken clocks can be right more than twice a day. Sometimes it depends
Like just right was right about a bunch of stuff. TLJ was almost a unifying failure on a lot of their parts
But um, yeah, that's okay. I don't think it's like I don't think they were
Yeah, movie bob is special
I just think they're kind of in a bubble when it comes to this sort of thing. I don't think they can just see other perspectives
Um, I mean like you have you have like just to reiterate
That woman is rated higher by critics than joker. Yeah
like that's that's nuts
And I think they honestly believe that
and and yeah, I guess what i'm saying is like
Uh, some of them may have been paid off who knows maybe it was all of them
I doubt it and I think that it's more likely that they genuinely did like or dislike these movies
But they oftentimes cannot figure out how to actually form an opinion about it that is supported by the fucking
Shit they watched and so they morph the crap out of it, which is a big part of the reason why I got started
I was really tired of listening to reviews that change the film in order to try and sell you it
As a as a worse experience or better one. You can go both ways
Like I think I mentioned it before but I say it to just write in that debate and he's just like almost you can tell
He's pissed at me because I imply that he's like lying by accident to make a film seem better than it actually is
And you can do that in reverse
But movie bob is just special in that he gets the wrong take like 99 of the time
Um, i've heard that he said that batman versus superman was bad. So there you go
He nailed it
Good job. Bob. That's what I'm trying to say
Um, so that's an interesting question regs. What kind of sword is it because if it's a katana, I mean you might actually be screwed
It's a long sword
There you go. It's a right proper sword. It's not it's not any of this weed garbage
It's a right fucking proper cruciform sword. So it's like a claymore of some kind
That's the long sword. It's patterned after a 14th century
design
Okay, cool. It's the land graph
From albion that's lame too. I'm gonna get a real ass lightsaber made from kyber crystals
All kinds of adamantium vibranium it's all going to be in
Yeah, I cut your sword in half with my lightsaber
I'm i'm really big on
European stuff because there's so much variety to it so much so many different designs and patterns
Over the ages and from different countries and there's just so much stuff
um
Now if I I find it very interesting
Very appealing aesthetically as well
And I don't like really opulent stuff. I like simple utilitarian something that's very believable and grounded
Like fantasy armors and video games a lot of the times so
Gaudy it turns me off
A lot of the times the farmers are so like especially like dlc armors or really high rank armors and stuff
They're so silly that they're just like, uh, just give me the default one. Yeah
Like so like the swords the more like high rank they are the more impractical they look and they look like they're a bigger harm
To yourself than your enemy. Yeah, like the
Like massive shoulder pads and weird spikes sticking out of it and stuff like that and like, uh, that's dumb. That's stupid
I can't get over how not practical that is
Yeah, it's bad
Uh, you guys should watch night watchman for halloween best halloween movie i've ever seen
Night watchman
Never heard of it
Is he referring to night watch?
Um, the result i've gotten is the night watchman and it's a 2017
horror comedy from jiminy apparently
Hmm that's possibly it. I do not know
Because I think there was a movie called like night watch where there was a night security guard
And it like turns out he was like a patient or some shit and not a guard. I I don't know for sure
Could be cool. I mean, I like sounds like you just spoiled it
I mean I could be entirely wrong. I
Oh, i'm sorry once
Uh was nice watching you boys again, but it's time to finish cooking my thanksgiving dinner. Have a good one fellas
All right, enjoy
Sargon calls the hk riots to create gamer gate too
It's doing god's work
Um, can we liberate hong kong revolution of our age? Can we keep the ghost after spooktober is over it's cute
I don't know happy ghost only come out for halloween halloween month if he's always around he's not special
Yeah, cause he's dead
Mr. Shit tim shafer
Tim shafer could be referred to as mr. Shit. Yeah, okay
Um, yeah, why the frick am I banned in chat? I do not know. I have not banned anybody in chat
I don't think but if the mods have there's probably a reason
Um
Been grappling with alex from youtube for an hour. Definitely not some esl named syresh or chang
Let's see if making a new account makes any difference. Wish there was a better way to send live chats
Oh so ras got a new account. I guess he got boops
He's a green rod now used instead of a pig growl red rah, um, oh I noticed that it was changed and I I didn't know why
They came from wrong
It helps that he doesn't have an avatar. It makes it better somehow
It's just the default. It's the default head and shoulders thing
Um
Therm-a-dick by movie blob
thermadeek
Uh, read the guy who said who do that's mean real people don't do that. Bruh. I've seen senselessly
Meena, wait, I remember reading this before is he repeated this one?
Oh, I guess he has repeated this one because he thinks it didn't come through it did come through it's okay
Um read it twice then yeah, you know
I've been senselessly mean to sorority hookups like patrick bateman
The subway guys were attacking a defenseless man with a handicap people are mean
And yes, we agree people are mean. Yeah, totally senselessly mean
It's like you you sometimes like see these like cameras outside of cities and you'll just see guys
just stab somebody for no reason or like just
There was like these three teenagers that just ganged up on this guy and kicked the hell out of him and stole his stuff. It was
It was hard to watch and people are just nasty
Hashtag justice for blue. Oh, yeah, because blue was ripped off by every movie that has blue in it. Yeah
Be kind to people be kind to animals, you know, it's just all that stuff. You guys know the drill into butterflies, right?
Don't be cruel
when I was when I was in
One time when I was in boy scouts. Um
there there was some event at a
The big old rockefeller gust blast thing they we have out here big old big old camp big old summer camp, right?
and we were there for some special multi-troup get together where we did something and
They we had we found a snake is a little little like
Grass garden snake harmless thing, but you know, it's cool. It's a snake. It's fucking cool
and
we we had this snake with us and
Just for whatever fucking reason some some guys from
Another troop they took out their pocket knives and like cut its head off. Just put cut its head off
and I remember
watching that and I was just
like
Disgusted by it. It's like that. It's like they would like it's just something that they thought like this is something we should do
Like this it's so it's so senseless and a cruel thing to do and yeah
It's just a random snake in the woods
But you know when I was like this isn't what like these are these are supposed to be boy scouts, you know
These are supposed to be you know, that's not the thing that we're supposed to be doing
No one should be doing that anyway, but it was just I know as a as a younger guy
It just it really blew me away just this random this cruelty that
they could show to a creature like that and always just kind of stuck with me and
And I always made sure to to do my best to not be like that, you know, it was like I
It it's it was really is just caught me off guard
at that age, especially
some people are just some people are just nasty and they're horrible and they just
They get some sort of glee
from the fact that
Something can that they they're watching something suffer and that they're even causing suffering to something else
And the further you can get away from that the better you'll be just as a person
For sure. Yeah, pretty much
A lot of those people's exists out there and you've got to figure them out and avoid them
Um, I can't pretend to be exactly like arthur
But I had a friend with the same disorder just with crying instead of laughing in college
She had an episode late at night in my frat's living room once while no one but me was there
I had a girl that was in my room come down
And hold her in the back seat of my car while I drove us all to a dorm
I got a friend an ems on the phone to help us deal with a problem
It's tragic as hell. It makes my blood boil that stuff like this happens, but it does
I was so angry at npc's that laughed at arthur's expense
I mean every um, yeah the um, I forget what it was it was like a
Socrates quote or something the the whole you know, be kind to everyone you meet they're all fighting a hard battle, you know something like that
Which is generally one of the reasons why I
Is it just just be nice to people, you know, just put yourself in the shoes of other people
Yeah, you know, it's fun. It's like memeing around on the internet. It's fun. Haha. Haha. Auschwitz slavery
It's funny, right? But like when you're out in the real world talking to real people and you're with them
You know, it's be nice be nice to your servers
You know in restaurants and your waiters
be nice to the people at the post office and your next-door neighbors and
Just the people at the grocery store. Just just be nice. Nice, you know, just just be good
It's the little things they all add up all little things add up
And yeah as for that, um, the the npc's that laughed at arthur's expense you're referring to the uh, I assume the people in the train or um
people outside of the movie laughing at
like
The idea that it's a real condition or whatever the the yeah either way. It's just
A frustrating. Um, where's the beef?
Oh, that's that's one of them american sayings, right
from a show
He was referring to uh, when we're talking about uh things like jokes and stuff going viral
Uh back in the day where's the beef was another one of them similar to don't have a cow man
Don't have a cow man. That's another one. Absolutely
Especially in the day where there's only three or four channels on tv
Remember it wasn't just tv it was tv and there was like a couple channels
Yeah, you were watching gilligan's island or you were watching hogan's heroes or you were watching match game or some
Show, I mean like everyone watched the same stuff
There wasn't a hundred channels and a hundred different this and that and the other thing like nah, man
Everyone knew who the lone ranger was everybody knew who the flintstones were. I mean that was it was a lot more focused
There are less things to split up all that tension amongst
Yeah back then. I remember my tv only went up to channel 22. That was it
It keeps going and going energize a bunny meme
Is that the um
Some of the bunny that gets powered up by the duress help battery after it runs out. No, it's an energizer battery. Um
Yeah, no the energizer bunny was a mascot back in the day and um, he was for the yeah
For energizer batteries and so they would have like this ad playing
It would seem like an ad for something else entirely and all of a sudden just here's the energizer bunny just out of left field
And it's always like the same mantra
Still going nothing out last the energizer battery it keeps going and going and then the commercial just fades out
And it was a meme and it was it was they didn't call it a meme
But come on by all standards is me call it that back in the day
And that was a that was a viral thing too, you know, energizer bunny everybody if I can remember that guy, you know
Those who were alive back then i'm gonna say the similarity for me is in
in britain possibly other places just I just remember the duress cell bunny which is like there's they race each other and the
They have shitty batteries and they're the one with the duress cell battery. Is duress cell a company over there?
Well, no, yes. Yes, duracell is absolutely a company here and they didn't really have a mascot
Back then it was just the the ad itself for duracell batteries were just self-explanatory like uh, we're better than these guys
And then they had like, you know
They had the copper top battery. They said they can't you can't stop the copper top
And that was just uh, that was just the red energizer actually stole the bunny from the duracell commercial. Is that true?
Uh that I don't know I have no idea
Well, either way, there's clearly a lot of more when it comes to
Bunnies and batteries
Oh, yeah virality of things. Ah pre-dated the internet. No problem. No question about it
Um, how about the what's riots what's riots?
assuming that's a
Historical event of some kind that has relevance to uh, what happened with
joker
Joker unbridled praise in the future mola. Yes, that is the intention
But the movie doesn't come out till like january. So the earliest you could ever expect it would probably be like
March and even then that would be as if i'm not working on something to do with episode nine, which is more than likely
Yeah, um people in one
I do it's frustrating
People in one screening were saying she and laughing while he was holding his ribs because they were hurting from laughter
They weren't laughing in the final act though. The gamer moments got him. Oh, that was the five out of five. Okay
um
They were laughing when he was holding it. Okay. Yeah audiences can be weird
Um, and that can often be because they didn't quite get the tone on maybe the first time around
And i've had this with friends when I try and show them like great
Content there was one with shawn of the dead
Where you know when um, his mum gets back up and is a zombie
Uh shawn. Yeah, like really dramatic friend of mine started like laughing. He was like, oh my god
Like she looks awful or something like that. It's like
He's a zombie, dude
This is supposed to be a really dramatic moment where he's gonna have to kill her
This is like you start like he's like, ah, you've just
Okay, like you totally ruined that but okay happy you're having fun
Um
Would you rather have a penny a penny that verbally critiques your experience during relations?
Or a rear end that critiques your critiques of others while you're making them signed mr. Massives
um
So someone that some your penis interrupts you
During sex to tell you you're not very good at it
Or your ass interrupts you during critiquing things to tell you
Uh criticisms of your critiques while you're making them
Well, uh the peanut can't the the the wiener cannot talk back when you're using it properly
It's gonna be muffled and if anything maybe has good advice to improve the experience. I don't know
Yeah, maybe maybe you know who knows that that critique is useless
It it probably very useful and improves your sex life
All right, so absolutely critical things for the win. Should we see what I say? Yes
So you have two choices one
Okay have a penis that verbally criticizes you your own penis verbally criticizes you during sex
or
Your asshole critiques your critiques of other other people while you make them
Hmm
I do the second one
Really so well, yeah
um
Yeah, absolutely. The last thing I need when i'm fucking someone else
Is to have a third voice offering commentary
Now granted oftentimes it will be very muffled because it will be yeah falls deep in a bit
um
but
If i'm critiquing something generally only I will hear my assholes critique of my critique
And if you want to be constructive that will help my critique
so
So far not too many complaints in the bedroom. Yeah, you always get better
I guess but I don't want like that's a time of intimacy between me and normally one other person
So you kind of you don't want to you don't want a third voice involved
Like someone like a like a backseat gamer just for fucking
You know
Then again, it might be it might be uh helpful
If you know you get no, yeah, i'm sticking with my answer
Yeah, i'm sticking with my answer one thing I think might be worth considering is the
It's like everyday life to be critical of anything and if your asshole constantly comments on whatever you're critical of that's like living with a fucking
Idiot constantly with you
Whoa, whoa. Yeah, hold up first off
My asshole isn't an idiot
You will be in that scenario
No, I wouldn't
But you would receive an idiot asshole rags either you or the asshole would be an idiot
You'd have to choose because he's critical of your critiques
Yeah
Are you saying that everyone who's critical of my critiques is an idiot? Um, either you're right or your asshole's, right?
So one of you's fucked up not necessarily
Not necessarily first off if i'm if I make 10 critiques about a film
What if i'm right first off?
Well, then you wouldn't the asshole would be the idiot in that
Well, no, he if being critical of something doesn't mean that you're doing that negatively
He's offering criticism
If there's nothing to criticize
What is he going to say and he wouldn't assuming he's gonna it is the is he gonna lie?
Well, if the requirement is he's constantly critical of you then he's gonna either fuck up at some point or you will
Well assuming well this enters into the somewhat into the nitty-gritty nature of the question which is
Is my asshole just a contrarian asshole?
Well, that's that's why it's he's being an idiot
If someone or if he's no, but if he's actually being constructive, even if it's assertive
But if it's constructive that's different than just having him
How long do you think you'd be able to last even if it was 100 constructive
But it was always commentary on every single observation you make that's critical
Hmm
How long would you last before you crack?
Okay, here's here's another thing. Does it do I have to speak my criticism out loud or does my asshole understand my thoughts?
Uh, let's see. It says
It says rear end that critiques you I got to imagine the assholes talking
Just like how the penis would talk. I don't know kind of hard to decipher
Because that would be a if because this would change my is it probably would change my answer
This is kind of where i'm at like ass
The asshole be doing it constantly almost right because there's a it's our job to be critical for most of the part of the day
A lot of the time
Yeah, but if but if I knew my asshole loved me and was watching out for me and was legitimately being kind and constructive
Then that would be different than literally every single thing that I comment on or criticize in
Anyway, it is going to try and justify in the question. It just says he does it while you're making criticisms
It doesn't specify anything beyond it's just when you're doing it
I don't know. There's I I I I need more information i'm
Tentatively then i'm going with critical asshole
but
um
Definitely not solid on that position. It depends on the nature of the criticism
And its ability to ascertain knowledge. I can agree with that. I was just cynical. I assumed that the asshole would be an asshole
Yeah
Same and I figured it the asshole would be it like it's its presence would be a lot more frequent
Yeah
You can't set up that point unless
Well, I don't want to entertain the idea of sewing it
Also, even even when you're not fucking when you're masturbating in your hands around something that's talking
I
I feel like I have more of a personal connection. Well, it says my it says during relations
Does that mean that it would have to be well with someone else? So masturbation is off the table?
Yeah, now we have to define whether or not it's relations and then now it gets weird
I mean either way it is being stimulated towards an ejaculation. So to its point of view
How different is it?
Yeah
These are really important details. You can't just ask a question like it's expecting us to know the answer when we don't have these details
Yeah, you see this community here asks the real questions. Okay, and someone makes a good point what you can plug your asshole
You absolutely you can absolutely plug your asshole
Yeah, but what if you wear a condom?
What if it like?
Imagine someone plugged your mouth. Could you like if the if the asshole guy is like a talking mouth sort of thing
Can you just be like pfft?
You know what I mean?
Plus if your asshole annoyed you you could literally tell it to eat shit
What how does it how does it do if you sit down at the time does it just like go
Or you call that a
Movie bob was right
Yeah, but the the moral of the story is on fucking work
Every single point that movie bob brings against joker can easily be applied to both the force awakens and the last jedi
do you mean like
the whole empty and boring thing or
um
The themes sort of conflicting bob bob is a it's hard to keep track of exactly what bob stand
Like could you ever predict if a movie was going to be something bob liked?
Strictly from the sense of like the message because it's like you could you could always imagine him going one way or the other
Um, because it's never about like how consistently it's delivered
He's a very strange man, um
Predictable while simultaneously hard to predict he occupies both of those spaces somehow. I don't know how he did it
Um
Stuckman's not nice. Have you read the pastor about people who had him over at their place comes across as an insecure?
Uh, cuz you're cuck
John seems genuine
I mean, I don't know anything about stuckman
Character other than got really upset when rich evans called him a prick
Which was hilarious
Um, I think there's gonna be a lot of people who if you're vaguely aware of red light media
You'll know about that
But you can still find the video of chris stuckman like he's in like a hotel room or something
And he like records a video on his phone explaining that he's upset that red light media called him a prick
Um when it was obviously a fucking joke
Like rich evans calling you a prick is like one of the best things that can happen on the internet
I hope right. I'd hope that rich evans called
I would frame it
Oh my god, he called me a prick but yeah, he's I think it's not even like personal in a way is basically like
they mention oh, there's a lot of reviewers that use a red background and um
They say like oh which prick these pricks and it like shows a bunch of pictures and I think
Chris tuckman's one of them. I think armored skeptic and jeremy johns are up there as well
Yeah
Definitely not something that was ever meant to be serious. Actually, I want to i'm gonna we should watch that chris tuckman video sometime rags
Because he deleted it but people have re-uploaded it
Got all upset a red light media, but uh, yeah, I don't know it gave me an indication of his character being like
I'm not exactly sure what I would say. It's just it didn't come across good for him. Let's put it that way
Uh haven't seen joker
So I'll have to watch you massive gallons later have fun pixel fucking tearing people down not letting them have different opinions
Hating women and minorities and general hate mongering. Love you. Efap is so much kick j miss wolf. Hi wags
Hello maul are you gay? Oh, yeah, that's fair enough
Observations
Uh, just remembered another chat that glitched
Re what people like yms and blob said about wayne subplot if you think that the wayne stuff shouldn't have been there
Your head should get shoveled
I mean
It was the people like yeah yms said that it was shoehorned
I think the uh, the the batman bruce wayne family stuff and i'm just like, I don't know man
How does it not fit? It's like
It was kind of a stronger like it strengthened his motivation toward the people who were like, you know
They were the rich looking down on everyone else
And it just kind of strengthened his you know, his view in that regard
Yeah, just for a while. It was just everyone else being crappy to him. But then it was clear that you know
you know the wealthy were
Elsewhere looking down upon them and then that that was like the big final motivation for why he took out the talk show host
Was very connected like all of it working towards pushing him to this this final destination if you will
Not to reference a horror movie that I also like you guys seen final destination
um
Yes, the original one is good. The sequel was pretty good too the rest of them were terrible
The thing um, okay, that's what I remember anyway
The first one I I don't I don't remember it
I've only seen it once and then every sequel got like worse and worse and worse
The point where it was like, oh i'm being i'm being murdered by a freaking plinko machine and a domino rally
It's like, okay, that's hilarious
Um, didn't a guy
I don't know which final destination it was but a guy got like his whole body sucked through his ass to death
Oh his whole body sucked through his ass to death. Mm-hmm. They did it
But
He's in a pool. Oh, yeah, because he was stuck on the pool. Yeah. Yeah
That's a weird one. I remember being like what?
Yeah, and then like
So and then I guess one guy
Like got thrown against a chain link fence and he got like sliced into tiny squares or some shit
through a chain link fence
Okay, bud
Uh, sorry shovel shoveled off since there's nothing worthwhile in there same goes for people crying and pissing their pants over the gf flashbacks
I mean, this is the thing we've addressed a couple of of the significant criticisms for this film
But not all of them yet, so there'll probably be room for another podcast about joker
We got we got like I said, we got like three out of captain marvel and that film was great. Um
Sorry, it felt weird. So just say that for a second there
Feel a bit ill
It's canadian thanksgiving. So i'll be watching this on moola during the drive home tomorrow future mark the cyborg
This is past you drive safe
Yes, drive safe be careful good stuff. Hope you enjoy thanksgiving in canadia. That's where canadians are from right?
Not hearing any disagreements canadia is where the canadians are from
Rise up legion of rah egyptian god of the rooftops
makes no sense in the
660th 666th episode you need to sacrifice 100 orphans in order to permanently kick jay into the immaterium
If we permanently kick jay, that means we can't kick him in the future
Yeah, we can't kick him anymore if we permanently kick him. Is this what you want? Yeah, it's truly what you want
You
Uh, you need to invite bowls bowel strek onto efap
No, that is
unfamiliar
bowel strek
Bowel drake or bowels trek maybe bow bow bow
Oh, is that it?
I don't know
Bowel bowel, it's gotta be bowel short
Um, I have not heard of that channel i'm afraid angry joe lives in cuckingham palace
I'm gonna share a reaction from a female member of the oscar's public relations slash marketing branch
No, i'm not editorializing this at all
I saw it and i'm not a fan
I'm not generally a fan of comic book movies me and my buddy scorsese have the same taste
Haha, but I found the character to be creepy and not in an oh, that's a great performance. It's so creepy way
That was from oh like like jake jill and hall in night crawler, which is a very good movie
Comes to mind just an unlikable character and will to spend two hours in I want to see
Downton abbey with all of its lightness and pretty people scenery and themes three times to get joker out of my system
Unquote, this is by far the worst one by the way. I mean she didn't really say anything. She's just like I didn't like it
Okay
Yeah, I mean, what can you even say? It's just like yeah, you didn't like it. Okay. Good for you
I had to watch downton abbey three times. It's like i'm so sorry
I had to watch downtown abbey three times just to feel like a person again. They took my personhood
Where did they take it? I don't even know this must be what those video games are like that
They're always talking about on the television
Now the only scene I thought made no sense was the talk show one assuming it's real
Why didn't they cut the broadcast earlier evacuate or call the police? They even say the show is family friendly
um because
In fairness, they seem to be in control
Like they stop him from telling the creepier jokes. They uh, they try and redirect and then they address
Like his issue, you know, like he announces that i'm the one who killed them and then like, um deniro is actually like
Trying to counter him argue him punish him live
In a way that I would imagine they'd be like, oh my god, our ratings are going to go through the roof sort of thing
Um, but his producer was even I don't know if they'd want to cut that this might be then they might see it as gold
Obviously once fucking deniro got shot. I don't think it would have been broadcasted
Now he's dangerous. Yeah
Um, yeah, I I could understand it. Um
Well, I hope my death makes more sense than my life, isn't that not a statement maybe not a political statement but a statement nonetheless
I mean, it's it's a yes, it's it's like an actual like he's making a statement with his
Mouth he's making vibrations in the air that yeah in that sense. He's making a statement, but that wasn't
How it's a very personal
Comment is you can read in yeah, it was in his journal. He didn't say it out loud either. Yeah
Yeah
Was the vision of bruce what arthur saw or was it an extrapolation of it from the knowledge that the wanes were killed on the night
He sparked the riot
I suppose he would have found out about that because that would be huge that the wane wane parents were killed
Oh, yeah, absolutely that would and he could be thinking about it and laughing already on the fire. Yeah, and this is the thing
Considering everything that happened to him in that movie. I can't imagine him not finding that funny
He's like that's what happens. That's the result. Like I said, i'm trying to picture it as seeing
That's such a horrible life. And then as a result of all of this
You know bruce has to experience that the kid that he was partially convinced was essentially his brother
It's like there's a lot to unpack on exactly what might be going on in joker's head at that point
That's why I find it so interesting. They just have movie bobbing like once a week passes. Nobody will be talking about this
Sorry, it's gonna last long. Oh, sorry. He said it'll be difficult to talk about it because there's so little in it
Of course
Her dear doi this is a film about an abandoned fatherless man who sees thomas wane as his dad her
But why do we see wane's actual son into movie the doi shoehorned batman, duh?
Yeah, like so a lot of people have been having takes that the batman element is shoehorned I disagree
I yeah, it's I think it's
Not shoehorned at all. The only way I think you could probably argue with shoehorned is in a meta sense
And I don't mean to movie bob here
But literally just the idea of like of course batman is in it and it's like batman's not in it
It's like no, I mean bruce wane's like what's wrong with that? It's like well, could you just make the audience go?
Oh, look it's bruce wane
Like but he's a character in this in this world that has relevance
You know like the argument that if you swap out all the names I say for example, the bruce wane family were called, you know
james the james family
I don't think anybody would be saying oh the james family were really like the whole james family narrative felt really forced
like it didn't feel like it was connected to the story just felt really and so is that the argument that the
The fact that they're named the wane family the fact that it's bruce the fact that it's thomas the fact that
It's joker are they saying that's the part that shoehorned because it doesn't feel natural for anyone
From dc to be in this film because if that's it i'd just be like, uh, okay
You know
As long as the the writing is
Solid and built up whether or not you feel that the wane family should be the family that represent
the rich
um
In in that in that city is like I don't want to say exactly should be like yeah, that's just the name of them
Um, the host of gedel needs his own name. It would be great for skits and fan art
There you go
Yeah, I don't
But what his name would be has I don't think I did I actually say
In either of those videos if he had a name I can't remember if the end of the first one ends with me saying
Actually what the name remember wanted. I had an idea about like
Slamming together a whole bunch of video essayist names just make it sound dumb
Maybe um, I want for so many terrible things to happen to the people that have terrible takes on this movie
I don't want to go that far. Hey
That's not the message of the movie
These people are these these bob
Fucking is struggle for him to get dressed in the morning. He doesn't need any more problems in his life
If they're all self-inflicted it's fine
I could I could I could legit picture movie bob struggling with every just normal daily activity
While he tweets on twitter that he's a part of the master race and other people are beneath him
And he's huffing and puffing because he had to put socks on
He paints like
He paints like one length of brush like up that green wall of his and he gets completely exhausted and he has to sleep for a day
He just dumps his straight in white paint and lets it dry and that's easier than putting on socks
Painted foot he just opens up the bucket and sticks his foot in puts the socks on
Um
Also, have you seen the video of freddy prince jr. Going off about the toxic brood?
I mean he's directing haven't seen it, but i've heard of it. Yeah, it's like I said, well, we'll we'll definitely check it out
I mean it's like a lot of people want us to uh
How is heath ledge's joker supposed to fight superman saw a comic panel of superman punching through joker's heart?
How's nolan joker supposed to survive that?
so all i'll say is it seemed to me that the point was how does
uh phoenix's joker stand up to any of of the justice league
like I don't think any iteration of joker's gonna have a lot of success against superman without kryptonite or whatever but
Their argument was more how does he become a villain for anyone in the justice league, which I don't agree with
I still think that it's very possible to become a villain
In many ways and it's kind of why
I want a sequel
to prove it's possible
But i'm also very concerned that it would be a disaster. So it's like this
You know on both hands sort of thing where i'm just because I actually think it's very possible
But you get so many people who're like you wouldn't even be able to do nothing against batman. It's like, okay
All right, then
What's that?
um
Ryan williams 480 guest appearance
Oh veigard urvik. I recognize that name. I think it's from
My twitch streaming days. Is that syndics?
If i'm assuming he's probably gone by now, but um
Good meme good reference. I remember it's just foggy. That's all
Uh, look at me. I am the joker now
Reckon that's me. I'm the joker. Phoenix taking the role for himself. I mean
It'd be interesting to see if we get uh
Another joker in the batman solo movie and then like another joker in the redud vision of suicide squad the sack
We'll just be like how many jokers have we got fucking out?
One of the reasons penny is put into the asylum is because of arthur's abuse
She adopted him before as a baby if memory is working fine
So
She adopted him as a baby before she got booted out from
Employment with the wanes i'd have to look into it again, but I can't remember the timeline on that
Yeah, there's gotta be when he scrolls through all of the things in that big file about him
There's probably references and then they can help you figure out his age
At least I figured there would be
Uh, yaku in phoenix. I can google it
Uh, I don't know if anyone knows for sure. Yeah, it's probably just guesses, right?
Um, like I don't mean the actors age I mean the characters age
Let me see
Um
Let's see
Someone asking the question. Um, yeah, i'd have to look around
Now phoenix is phoenix looks like a menacing mob boss in some shots
They could have this joker become a more gangster like joker easily now. I hope they do
I think there's a lot of ways for him to go
I think he's too chaotic for that
I mean a mob boss is essentially a ceo in a way. You have to have good organization good people skills
You got to be respected enough to where people aren't always trying to backstab and kill you
Well, and when they say mob boss, they might be referring to like, I don't know if they are but did you see batman 89?
Is that tim bit I
A long it's been a long time. Yes, but it's been a long time like he's a very
He kills his own men. He fucks around they get very confused as to what he wants, but he also does
Sort out things if you know what I mean crime wise
Like I could if they're gunning for something like that
It's kind of you know, I mean he's ledger's joker kind of does that he kind of takes over
the mobs
Collection of people, but he also burns like a fucking giant pyramid of money, which I can't imagine
You know his his cronies were happy with like if you were working for the joker
You were told to build all that buddy. Would you not pocket a bit of it like and he and you finally
But he was like, oh we did it. We robbed the bank. Oh my goodness
The people died and it was tough and difficult. Finally. We've got the money and he just lights it up
You're like, oh
How am I gonna eat?
I just spent a lot getting these weapons
Yeah, um, but he managed it so yeah, maybe that's what they're going for hi i'm the angry joe i'm a massive fidget
Fidget
We all fidget here and there
Uh, literally the only joker who could believably combat batman would be a joker who used to be a cia asset
Which is arguably what no one's joker really was intel agencies will be involved with real world batman
Check my head these suits with them a universe argument
Well, this is the other thing it's just weird to keep judging this joker I guess pseudo intellectuals as well though
Oh, is that what pseds
Sudes
Like I said, it is weird to keep being like yeah, the film is x but could he beat batman?
Could he be threatening to batman? It's like why why why stop it? It's weird that that thought never crossed my mind
Um
I could see joker having a sequel where it's about joker and the other villains of batman kind of like the show gotham
Honestly, if you told me what the sequel was about I guarantee you i'd have a cynical response like oh
No, but but I give it a shot just because of this film. I feel like
Hopefully it's it's a good and not a bad
Where i'd be at
Because i'm just i'm so concerned about how it can go wrong. That's all like oh don't do this
But also don't do this, but don't do anything that it's like they're just something i'm like
You have to do something
Um anakin beat up a bunch of 14 year olds. I think anakin beat up
people of all ages
Even as young as like five anakin was uh, not an ageist. He would you would
Pick the asses of anybody
Um cut on him. Oh, no, it's an ass blasted alejandro
I thought right because angry joe ass blasted alejandro. I get it perturbed pager. Oh, yeah
What is rags's favorite halloween movie?
Um, I mean horror movie I guess because nightmare before christmas
Yeah, that works
What every batman villain needs mental help
Yeah, there was a that was an interesting comment like the idea that all of the villains of batman
straight up evil and don't
Require help use like baba would be more interested in helping joker than
Like defeating him which I get I found weird because it's like the guy's shooting people like I don't think baba's would be like hey man
Have you thought about not shooting people?
Engage bat hug
No, rachos the thing that is a good choice as well for a favorite halloween movie
Um, oh, is that a halloween movie?
Well, if we're including all horror movies, I don't know. Do you mean movies that take place during halloween?
Well, yeah when when people say what's your favorite christmas movie they aren't talking about what's your favorite movie that makes you feel happy
You know
so but I think thematically
Like your I think thematically like a a movie that has something to do with halloween
I
Mean as much as your comparison makes sense
A lot of halloween movies are usually like just horror related
All right in the chat if that was your super chat or if if if that was your super chat
Let us know in the chat chat and tag me. Do you?
mean
halloween like
october
skellingtons all that sort of thing spoopies or
Are you talking about horror movie ever?
What would your answer be if it was the horror one?
If it was all of them thing is definitely up there, but uh event horizon is up there
um
I can't I don't I can't consider aliens a horror movie. Um
I I still think it's too actiony to be horror. Yeah, I was gonna say I don't usually guess classes horror action is the closest it gets
Let me see
Yeah, those are kind of the three that would well then again then then I'm from a nightmare before christmas isn't like scary so
Um probably yeah thing event horizon
Um now I will I know it's controversial maybe to say this but the first paranormal activity
um during good company before
Before it got freaking done to death
I like the first one was actually the first one actually scared the shit out of me
and I got the one with like the alternate ending or whatever because I knew a guy who worked in a theater and
He he uh, he was a man who could get things
but um
I uh, but yeah, the the first paranormal activity
Was terrifying to me. It scared the shit out of me. I showed a friend and then it just got retarded and silly
Yeah, definitely the man like it was actually good. I liked it, but
There's like the other ones were dumb like I like I watched the second one and it was stupid
Roger said lame soy gay
I'm so gay
But yeah, the first one. Um, the first one was actually quite good. I really liked the first one. What's cool is
What other ones that's up there for me is the fly and I want to watch that with uh, you know, see what you think
That's 1987
Not to say that old means it can't be good. It's just that uh, it leads to what you see what you think of the effects
Um, I will say Blair witch was pretty good
Even it does have this creepiness that holds up today. Very it's very
You know realistic, you know for what it was
um
But I i'm not big on horror movies
so
I don't have a huge list to choose from you've seen but a lot of the best ones which is good
You see you haven't seen a lot of the shit ones. So you're right
The ring was pretty good. That was oh, yeah, that high score scores for me and fell enough
it's one of the few times people reference because it's um,
a korean movies being turned into
American ones with remakes I could be wrong about korean could be japanese chinese. I I really don't know which
Of the specifics but it's often cited as one of the better. Um
Remakes because they're usually terrible, but they're like, yeah, the american ring wasn't so bad
And it's uh that that movie fucked me up in the head
Just because of the way that it delivers the kills nice and uh vague on exactly what she does to you
Which is and I I would say like I yeah, I just don't watch that many horror movies. Um
I'd have to kind of stop and think about others but
Yeah, just just not really I just don't really care for them all that much
It's not really something that interests me. Um
There's one more interpretation of the question and that is your favorite movie from the halloween series
Oh, I don't know. I don't think i've seen any of them say the original because
The original original's best the original. Yep. The first one they did and they should have stopped after that. Oh
Um, I I uh, I want to add to that. Um
20 uh 28 days later was pretty good
For 28 weeks and and uh 30 days of night
Oh, yeah vampire movie days of night. Yeah, that was a
30 days of night was some good shit
Okay, um kite man, that was obviously a suggestion for when we were saying don't some dc
Uh joe terminator
I don't know
The cuck movie
Also, hi rex
Hello
Um, yeah, that's a pretty weird thing by the way. Yeah, it's uh, it looks like the most ham fisted thing you could ever see
And it's what now the cuck movie
Yeah, it's an actual movie I guess and it's uh
It's not out yet, but fuck it why is there
What?
What is it? Is it called the cuck movie?
Yeah
Why well cuck it's just called cuck. Okay. Well, is it a horror movie?
No, I mean, well, I I think what they're trying to do
Is like do some sort of like I don't even know if it's a joke at this point or not because it's just so stupid looking
I guess it's about like this guy. That's all like oh illegals are ruining the country and I hate him
And it's just it's all about this one guy who hates like illegal aliens and do do do do
Yeah, they should go back to where they fucking came from
Um
Well, hence the term illegal but i'm assuming that they exactly they they broke a law
So yeah, well, I think what I think in the movie they just plain call them immigrants
Just straight up immigrants to you know, because they they love to make that uh
They'll have to cover up that distinction
But I I guess in the movie, it's just about a like a trump supporter who just hates everything. That's not america. I guess so, uh
Um
This has to be treated as an else world story because bruce's motivation to become a crime fighter is crime in general
Not a central antagonist
Isn't it crime in general in this
vision
He doesn't know who killed his parents. It's just a guy dressed in a joker mask that was encouraged by
a series of unrest in the city that was
catalyst
Catalyzed is that the word?
It looks like cuck cuck has a 2.8 out of 10 on imdb
It's like an efap movies potential thing
It says when a frustrated loner gains popularity as an alt right vlogger
The online echo chamber turns his fears into a deadly rage
really
Uh, that's a real thing that someone made that this is apparently a real thing. Um
Should we watch the trailer right?
Oh rotten tomatoes if fucking claimed i'm not risky that after getting okay, seven and a half hours daily done
It's true, um
yeah, uh, I guess if you're referring to the fact that bruce would find out the um
Arthur did the thing on tv which kind of sparked off a lot of what happened and thus would
Treat him as the central antagonist
I still think that all of it happened as a result
Of the city falling into decay of many different sorts like crime in general skyrockets that sort of thing
um
What i'm trying to say is that if they actually push this forward and fast forward by 10 15 20 years
It wouldn't be necessary for him to be motivated by a singular person as opposed to the city of gotham is
A crime-ridden disaster that sort of thing
Um, this one just says steve
That's fair enough man. It was from the guy who suggested kite man. Is there a villain in the dc universe called steve?
I wouldn't want to fuck with him. His villain my name is stillin
Yeah
Um, oh my god, why are people so
Why are people so stupid pennie gets admitted arthur holds a pillow wane says he'll save gotham on the news
Arthur asks him for warmth
Wayne beats him so he gives up on warmth and crawls into a fridge
Um symbol to his uh, I don't remember him saying
Warmth specifically, but that could be it. Someone else suggested that he did it because he wanted to avoid the sound
Of his phone ringing, but wouldn't he just unplug the phone or just lift off the
Yeah
Uh
Again, I just think it was because he became suicidal and then he just kind of backed out of it at the last minute before he
Ran out of air. Oh
He committed to it fully
Yes, that's another theory indeed
um
Also, he was tied to a radiator when when he was raped
Yes. Oh, no, it's because he was tied to a radiator when he was young
So he got in the fridge because he got too hot next to the radiator
So whenever he's nervous he crawls into the fridge because he feels like he has to cool down and get away from the radiator
That haunts his dreams
I mean you may sound funny, but there's probably some degree of truth there
Yeah, maybe lots of interpretations check out lego batman sometime had a lot of those bad villains
Also was really good somehow and is my choice for best batman movie
wow
fair enough
Uh, one thing I really appreciated was arthur letting go of alfred's throat once he notices that it's scaring bruce
He had every reason to resent that kid, but he really did just want to make him smile
I mean, I think that's fair. This is part of why he's not um
Like 100 a piece of shit evil person clearly got something going on
Yeah, he he's got at least had himself a little system, but it's sort of a system
Yeah, bruce had himself a little chuckle over his magic wand thing. So it's like yeah, i'm getting through
So he's like he didn't want to spook the kid anymore at that point
Joker had a high stakes pillow fight with his mom
Okay
Also, love the moment where the paramedics in the ambulance ask arthur about the last time he spoke to his mother which was an argument
And he hangs his head down and sits there shaking
These details are coming from rah
Nice eye these are interesting to me, you know, I I
Nice to see rah's very much passionate about this movie. That's nice
Nice
Rah has a soul. Okay guys, it's it's there. He's like the joker
Hey mauler, I started watching buffy
How many people have to die or disappear at this school before the parents decide it's no longer safe for their kids and take action?
Um, you know, I I thought the same thing about fucking harry ass potter. So here who knows?
Harry ass potter. Okay
um
They uh, they there's a couple of meta moments where they address that in in in buffy
But yeah, uh, if I was a parent and I had a choice I would never let them I would never move to suddy dale
It's not a good idea
Yeah, one kid dies. It's just weird freak accident fluke of nature another kid dies
That's kind of weird. A third kid dies after eating a meatloaf in the cafeteria and i'm thinking
Uh, either i'm taking either i'm taking my kid out of school or i'm crossing my fingers
Well, when you find out in harry potters like oh, they live next to a forest that's forbidden
But easily accessible with a giant mad eating spider in it. You're like, uh
You guys like don't let the kids go there, right
Or do they the amo massivos absolutos
That was clearly german but I can't translate german i'm so sorry
Uh, hey rags
Okay, did you notice arthur fired eight shots from a six round revolver?
Um, I did notice that he seemed to fire too many
um
Is it confirmed it was six shots because I can't quite remember i'd have to rewatch it to have a look
I would have to rewatch too because some revolvers do have more. Um
But it but I I did I know when I watched it I was thinking hmm
Well, i'm not sure nothing he's run out of shots by now
But oh, but then again, maybe I maybe I assumed it has six shots and maybe it has more i'm not sure
Um, i'd have to go back and watch
Uh, I'm pretty sure it had six maybe even five
Yeah, I I remember being like hey i'm pretty sure but but that not having that betty
Um
At least two of the screenings my friend's family and I have attended have had single mothers with kids
Last night had a mom with a kid no longer no older than nine
In the front row scissors scene was fun
Yeah, how do people not care about age ratings anymore? Like just because joke it does not mean that it's
The batman movie from that's allowed for everybody's dude. Look at the rating
It's r
Is r and d
R and d. Uh, where is slash get j on is also raw spelled backward
uh
Wow
Neat little
Where is slash get j on and kick rags?
Wow
Also, hi j wolf rags. How do you feel about this?
Bizarro clown world comment. Mm-hmm
Um
Well, are you saying it wasn't intended for children? Yes
Yes, i'm gonna be controversial and say that
Saw alien and ghostbusters in the cinema this week any classic movies you've wanted to see in a theater alien was one for me
As is empire and 2001
Can I can I see fellowship again in the theater? I know I don't know what you mean by classic but
I do I do remember seeing the lord of the rings movies in the theaters and
It was just
Okay, good. I was really young at the time like I was
But I remember I do remember seeing them in the theaters and I was just
blown away captivated
I am i'm thinking about it. Yeah, lord of the rings would be big choices. Um
It came out
2001 so yeah, I was I was young young and I but I remember seeing it though
Like that's the thing. I was like
Let's see december. So I was like nine ish
but man
I was
I I was I was almost 10
But uh, oh yeah blade run over your choice
I'd like to see alien I think in theater. I know I saw it sounds weird because it says it's pg-13
But I know I saw that in the theater
Well, I mean all you need is apparent with you right I guess yeah
Because I know I saw lord of the rings with my my dad
I remember that shit. Yeah, my dad. Well, yeah, we we went to go see it my dad
Jeez, I love it
so good
Yeah, uh, oh drastic park. That'll be another cool one. Yeah, to be honest with you
I wouldn't mind just a lot of classic films. I'll just be like, yeah, let's do it
The lord of the ring says that the fellowship of the ring has a 91 percent on the tomato meat
There are people who gave that a thumbs down
Wow
An official critic one about one out of ten official critics
Gave it a thumbs down
Well, you know everyone's entitled to their opinion bags, right? Right
Speaking of rt. I noticed that uh, let's see top box office on the rt list
We've got joker at ninety three point five million next on the list twelve million with abominable
I still can't believe that the film called cuck
Wow
um
Only reaction I had to the girl
Was when I said to my friend
Oh, she's nice when she showed up at the hospital to support him didn't really think much about the rest because i'm not an obsessive
spig
Who looks for gotcha moments in your first watch and ironically these wannabe sherlocks come off more neurotic than the incels about whom?
They keep whining
You know ebert and roper
Yeah
Roper gave it a negative
Who's roper
He's part of ebert and roper, you know the the critic the film critics in cisco and ebert
Well, just cisco and ebert that was before jean cisco died
Now it's ebert and roper
roper gave
The fellowship of the ring peter jackson's the fellowship of the ring
Splat
His review is it goes on forever
Oh
Why why long bad bad
Like that's i'm just i'm reading i'm just going through some of these reviews here and they're just baffling
Oh
I fucked that up. It's it. Oh, yeah. No, i'm sorry. I I completely fucked it up. It's roger. Roger ebert that died. Uh,
Yeah, okay. Never mind. It's been a very long time and I didn't follow
Long bad
Um
Yeah, uh
The a lot of people did just accept the uh
In reference to the super chat the uh, the relationship they were like
I think a lot of people were just like she's she's real. Oh god. She's not real
You like um, mike from red light media said that uh
It was something that he didn't necessarily see coming. Oh, wait, I can't remember if you didn't really see it
I didn't really see it coming something was uh, that's how I felt about it
But once it was revealed, I was like this makes sense. Yeah
Yeah, I was worried that she was written like in a rush and then it turns out it was all in his head like damn
Good shit
Uh me listening to molar and rags talk about film not glorifying the uprising. Yes. Yes. I concur very astute
This is not a glorification me watching the riot scene rise up arthur rise up
Okay
And so rag's argument about the moral implication of deserve comes to fruition good on you rags
You 40 chest this video months in advance
I have my moments where the genius shines through
That is a truff not a truth
Truff like 10 times a truth. That's what I it looks like. It looks like truff if it's truth. Where's the e?
Where's the e? Tell me and they never answer that shit. Do they they never answer it?
Uh, rah will lead us into the gamer uprising of 2020. Oh
Not all batman joker comics are canon why can't the movie
I
Don't know the rules. I don't know which comics are allowed or not is complicated
Like I don't know if there's a whole bunch of batman joker stories that are just non-canon but are in comics
Depending on who's made them is complicated. Like I I'm not the person to ask
I don't know. I don't read comic books. Can begidious his last name be bat leaf
Giddy ist bat leaf. Oh, no
It's just beginning. This is the olden days. He just just one way
There wasn't enough people to where it'd be confusing yet. So it's just one name was enough
Speaking of the soundtrack during the first fantasy about the murray show i'm 99 sure they play rooftops from mary
Magdalene hilda composed that score with yohan yohanson. So I think it was a tribute, but I
Yohan yohanson
That's a funny name his parents weren't the wisest but it's something you'll remember, you know, it's not hard to forget that name
Same one but more stuff
Right the second bit easy, you know, there was a there's an austrian composer from the 18th century
His name was carl ditters von dittersdorf
Oh
That's unfortunate
That's amazing. I I learned about him when I was listening because i'm a i'm a faggot
So when i'm in the car, sometimes i'll listen to classic radio like classic music
Um, and sure enough one one day they had a piece
by old carl ditters von dittersdorf
And I was like man, I ain't ever gonna forget that shit
I like the idea that you you have to play you have joseph hiden and fron schubert and
carlo goldani
And you have carl ditters von dittersdorf. What a one of the greats
You're always like could you you uh diddler diddly doodly did
Oh
Well, like that's the name of another composer
um
Be like the guy introducing like a little
Ag to give to like the announcer and he's like dude, how do you want me to introduce you? He's like that. He's like
you
Really?
He's compy real. He's like it's real
It would be it would be culturally insensitive to assume it otherwise
um
But yeah, hopefully that and I believe he did and I believe he did a divertamento in d major
So you would have divertamento in d major by carl ditters von dittersdorf
What did he call
They call him carl the diddler
Oh
Hahn von diddly diddly
Didn't do von didn't do nothing didn't do godly diddle doodle diddle dirt
Um
Um
Oh, I love this. This adds with uh, so I think it was a tribute
But I hope that doesn't disqualify the score from oscar consideration
Rah, why would you care if a film gets oscars? I would have thought you'd hate the oscars
That they're all yeah, man. Fuck the system
Yeah
I bet these guys thought the scene of him kicking the garbage after getting yelled at by his boss was unnecessary plebs
Well, this is the thing whenever they did say which seed was unnecessary. They just said there were ones
Uh, do rlm's review
Oh, we did we did mention we pretty much covered. Yeah, we big points from that review
ourselves we we watched it and um
There would be a lot of weight here. Oh by the way
50 if you're in the 50 tier on the efap patreon, then you'll get access to the super secret
mauler rags red letter media j bowman joker commentary something
That is worth knowing and I found this out with
Dfa part one red letter media
Have copyright bots just like any other company does
They don't block though. They monetize I think I think they block if it's like the full thing
But point being if we were to try and play it on efap
They would claim the stream and I don't know what happens if we do it live versus uploading it
But either way it's risky and um, like I said a lot of it would be us
Playing and then hitting kind of like the the angry joe one
Um, but we we did mention all of I think we covered all the biggest stupid things j said as in bowman. Yeah
Throughout this stream. We have criticized red letter media in certain parts
I don't know where they were but they're in there
It wasn't a very good review but mike uh mike managed to keep it afloat. Yeah
Yeah, people aren't upset at mike in the comments no
Uh red letter media is trash. They have the same problem with sonic
Same problem with sonic sonic
Uh, i'm not sure that would be referring to
Oh
Apparently previously recorded
back in 2014
They said this this back in 2014. They had previously recorded sonic the most overrated game ever
Um
like the original game
Or like yeah, I well, I guess um, yeah the original it's got 6.8 k up 2.2 k down
Um, well, this is the thing. Um
This applies to everybody but just like our lab
But yeah, they're not like gonna be on point with every single thing they talk about
Yeah, they're not they're not infallible. No one is yeah, we fuck up. I mean, yeah
Everyone. Yeah, it was the only movie bob where you can't actually get anything, right?
If I fuck up it's a it's a i'm testing you to see if you're paying attention or it's ironic or it's a joke
It's genius
J xc is a hyric him row him row
him row
J will react just as ryan did to tlj critiques
Oh
Like I said, I think it would be rare to have the
Rlmj now have him have any kind of response to everyone's response to his response to joker
But it would be neat if there was some kind of reference
Yeah, efap movies warriors of virtue when warriors of virtue
What is this I don't understand me
Uh hashtag fuck china
Gas the commies the fallout universe had the right idea press one to nuke the shit
That's like an eye with two dots above it
to avoid
How would you pronounce that?
He is like a yeah
it says uh
Press one to nuke the and then that eye with chinks. So it's like
Teens, I don't know how to pronounce that the way it's supposed to be
I don't even know. I don't think i've seen that letter before that character
Uh, why cna tracer not be pandering just because she was gay at the start
Well, I mean
Are you saying it's always pandering to have any character that's gay?
I
Like um, well what we were getting at is um tracer was like gay from the start
And so it's all like fine. We get it. But then like later on like much
Much later in overwatch's life cycle suddenly up soldier 76 as a homo
Pay no attention to the fact that we gave awards to a catfish
It's like and and in china
He's not gay. So it's a it's a very clear thing of oh will
Yeah, that we're we're trying to base it we're trying to pander to western audiences by saying oh soldier 76 is gay
But in china that's not quite as socially acceptable or it's not up to the party standards
so
The so instead of saying well, fuck you then blizzard kowtow and said oh in that case he's not gay
because
Because fucking chinese money is more important than you know
our artistic integrity
um
They moved on to say they pander from the start they censor from the start
Why is tracer or any other character not bi but always gay?
I guess she I guess she's actually gay. Well, this is the thing I
How do we tell the difference at that point then are we not allowed to have anybody gay?
without it being pandering
I don't know. I guess they're like soldiers gay tracer's gay
I don't fucking even know what bastion is
Robosexual he's he's pansexual like lando or something. I don't know
I was just waiting for them to announce the next day after the whole china thing broke out like up winston's gay now winston
You're all gay. Oh winston. Oh fuck more gayston
There's a reason they
Got the big game
Here's bottom you wonder why in the name of winston
Morley you were talking about welsh pride a couple efaps ago. Have you been watching the rugby?
Wales is going fucking well top of the pool
I've been been kept abreast of the news as to how wales are doing in the rugby yet. I've heard good things
One thing wales can do sometimes not bad
Rugby nancy hopkins
All that is, you know, it's a selection to a degree
um
You make character gay because bi wouldn't please the alphabet people that character loves men and women they have to decide
Are they for us or against us tracer was as pandering as soldier?
I wouldn't say it was as pandering because it had like planning behind it and it was always the character was always that way
Soldier was pretty much they decided to make him gay
Almost as a result of drawing away
attention from other blizzard controversies which there have been over the years more and more and more everything from
Monitoring social media posts and preemptively banning you
To all sign all kinds of stuff and the things that professional players are allowed to do and say it's
Blizzard's been on a downhill slide for
a long time now
The the soldier 76 gay thing was just to get people's attention away from it
And of course all the all all the blue check marks took the bait oh this is good on blizzard for doing this
Oh, it's such good. Some some some representation something something
Now I feel validated as a fucking gay person because a fucking cartoon character in a video game is gay
Finally somebody to identify with because that's how characters work
Yeah, you don't have those anymore
Apparently adorni said the reason she's pandering is they made a huge deal about it
Uh, there was a comic a lot of tracer being gay I guess so. Yeah, I got no context for any of this so
Well, didn't they also have stories about like, you know, some of them doing straight shit, too
They do not straight shit
I mean did did straight characters get comics as well?
Uh, yeah, I don't have been it's yeah, because if they did then it's no big deal
I'm pretty sure at least one one character did like it might have been um
Might have been reinhardt or something because so because if they did then
no big deal
Democracy is need non-negotiable death is a preferable alternative to communism
All right
Please show him a meme tweet to death bullshit
Please if I check my notifications on twitter i'm gonna get slaughtered with a billion of them
uh
If I have a twitter thing
Well, no, apparently someone sent something to me on twitter that they're gonna want you to see. Um, just he's on twitter. Just at him
Get
Yeah, do that. All right. I'll check it now. I I sometimes I don't go weeks without
Checking twitter. There you go
Now you guys need to make an april fools efap video. Are you guys just watching something?
It could be pre-recorded and streamed using the premiere feature
I'm sure we'll do something for april fools. Maybe
No promises. Good morning. Efap. Have you watched gendy's tah
Tatakovsky's primal andy tah takovsky
Uh, no, he did dexter's laboratory in samurai jack
Is primal good
No idea
But apparently it's a new show he did
All right, I hope it's good. I've all seen it
Would the big gay be able to take down goliath
I don't know
This is a good question. I I couldn't even begin to
I'm gonna say no the low experts are probably the people who can answer that better than us. But um
I think the cosmic chicken is kind of at the top
So he could but I don't know if the big gay well
I don't know is the big gay like the force
The big gay can be used for both the good and the evil big gay is kind of like a multiplier, right?
Like whatever it's it's whatever it's applied to gets boosted by, you know, x amount of time
Yeah, it's like goliath is powerful goliath
A big gay goliath is extremely powerful. That's like terrifying stuff
Yeah, it's uh, cool
Multi-classing the inventive they spelt fuck china, but the u is spelt with um
You know, like if you hit shift on backslash
at that that character then underscore another one of those like
like empty cup that
shift shift back
So
Shift backspace backslash no
Shift backslash. All right, so it's like a line. So it's a lot. So they probably did backslash. Oh, okay. Oh a line. Okay
Um line underscore line. So it looks like a u
like an empty cup line
so
line
underscore line
Yeah, it's a u let's see what you're doing. Yeah, I got you
Embrace democracy or you will be eradicated. Oh my
Uh, pretty much the only countries I think are worse than china are the middle eastern ones and that ignoring that they have less international influence in china
Yeah, that's why china is the worst because they have international influence and they shouldn't have any in fuck china
It should just be a fucking parking lot
parking
World would be better. The world would legit be better
Yeah, obviously i'm joking. Obviously. I'm
All you need to say is in a video game at the end of any content in a video game
A fucking hate china. They're the worst
in a video game
I want number one
If only people united against them like they do china the world would be a better place overnight
I I mean
China
What's gonna be
Can't defeat them. You gotta you gotta
Maybe use anime against them. I was thinking you know, because like that's a
They probably like that trying to try and infect good ideas through anime that they think they created we could have some kind of
System going there. We're gonna make some plans people. Okay, can't just let china keep doing china things
Most anime is not very good
Here's the thing. I fucking hate china
redo
Mola, would you be okay with being called a taff? I don't know what that is
I'd have to google urban dictionary
It's probably slang for something or not
All mola anime is japanese, isn't it?
I don't care about your chinese cartoons just because it's a jet it gets all over the place
It's not like people in america don't check out anime because it's japanese in this i'm trying to say you infiltrate them via anime, okay?
Teach them some different ideas about life through
Animas they can get them you can do the same with america, but america's fine for now compared, you know
Doing the right over there. Give me old boogie. Woogie
We gotta do it that way i'm pretty sure china love their anime too like the everyone does all over it's it's horrifying
Um, have your pets
I don't know. Do they?
They gotta call it something else
Um
Have your pet spayed
All right, any any objections nope, um
Um protect the balls
The japanese did nothing wrong in nanking. Okay, that's a little far
spicy take
uh jokes aside
The cop car riot and rise-up sequence was so satisfying
It's the first time he's happy and feels loved by anyone
And by a whole sea of people at that love how he touches the blood in his mouth and realizes this is real
I'm real
Oh
Uh after he gets pulled out of the cop car, I guess so. Yeah, maybe
Huh, maybe
I didn't really dream it from that. I just I just figured he was really just reveling in the whole thing
Hi rags
Hello
rats to dis on two whole days of efap
Oh, that's from uh kyberkins, so i'm assuming that means that your clock has finally hit two days i'm getting
How that works?
Oh, wow. Yeah, I guess we're working. I would have thought you'd have had more than that by now
Wait, you got 12 days
Not two days I was gonna say you had to you'd have to have all the two days by now
Oh
Rats oh, sorry not not to rags to das. Oh das bullshit you've crossed the two-day mark
How bad I have yes. Oh in like hours. Oh and like hours on the show
Yeah, once this one gets uh added will have gone over the two-day mark
Wonderful the current fact guest with the most outside of rags is jay with four days and two hours
And uh most appearances goes to fringy though, which will probably get quite bolstered by the batwoman stuff if that carries on
Now they're all in the race
Um 12th anniversary of ruby gloom today. Ah memories ruby gloom what is ruby gloom?
Ruby gloom is that like when ruby rose is depressed
I got no idea, but uh that is ruby gloom is a
animated series
Uh, some kids might be afraid of the dark, but ruby is different
She befriends strange creatures like doom kitty. Don't do it skull boy
misery booboo
and mr buns
Final episode was in
2008
That is a deep reference
Uh better dead than red. The only good communist is a dead one
That is correct
Uh ari the recording of arthur stand-up
They show the guy making the joke about sex and cars being recorded on a tv screen before arthur goes up
Um, I guess the contention was whether or not they would put that on a tv show in
The early 80s late 70s
I think that's what doom cock and um
One of the superchats are talking about
Whether or not they were recorded in the show. I I don't think anyone has much of a problem with that. I think
Hero returns to the place he left changed into something that brings his tribe into a better order
Villain returns changed into something that plunges his tribe into terror and chaos
Sounds fair the inverse
Yeah, I stand with rags on the debate of deserve
Go rags
Thank you. I
I I I do think I can defend my position but yeah, I
I definitely still hold to my original position
I will definitely die on the hill that you have built for the uh, the use of the word literally
Yeah, man that one brought that up man
Man's got to take a stand draw a line somewhere
Yeah hardcore. What is it? I don't want to I don't want myself
I don't want my children that I will never have to live in a world. We're literally being figurative
All right
All right, what kind of fucking bizarro clown world would that be
I'm, so sorry. That's an experience that button just
No one should have to go through that nobody
Um
What is your opinion on candy corn hashtag team candy corn?
I'm not a big fan. I don't really care for candy corn. Um
I don't i'm not really a big candy guy in general. I like chocolate chocolates. All right, but honestly just fucking give me berries
Blueberries raspberries strawberries blackberries do berries
Man, I I I get like in my fridge right now i've got just
Because I got these these plastic tubs that are aerated and stuff to keep keep them really fresh
And i'll buy a bunch of berries and i'll mix them up and wash them and put them in there and just go at them
They're like candy blueberries. I'll go through i'll fuck i'll fuck up a tub of blueberries
Watch me i'll do it
Blackberries. I love them
Yeah, blackberries are great. When I was a kid, uh, we actually had these fields near this place that my dad worked fields full of
Blackberry bushes and we used to pick them by hand and my mom would bake them into a pie. It's great times
In terms of my answer for candy corn, um, I wouldn't go out of my way to buy candy corn
I don't mind it very much, but I won't have like a lot of it before i'll get pretty tired of it
um, admittedly, I do like candy more than you know, i'm say the rest of us do but
Well, it's okay. It's all right. I don't have an opinion. I haven't had candy
We have it here. At least we don't have it. It's it's yeah, it's fine. It's it's kind of waxy pretty weird
I don't think you would like it. I would say most don't if they haven't heard of it before. Do you like do you like twix?
Yeah, oh no. Oh, oh, uh, I mean, um, sorry twizzlers. Do you like twizzlers?
Not as much
Not hugely
Okay
Well, then candy corn is it reminds me of twizzlers, but I like twizzlers
Twizzlers twizzlers is like eating
It's very it's it's like it's not strong
You know, it's very
It's it's easy food if that makes any sense. It's just you can just eat it and it's kind of
Yeah, you can lazily nibble on it all the time
It's just it's like bread or
Like like like very like completely unsalted like tortilla chips. It's just like
eating
stuff
Popcorn that does literally no flavoring or anything on it. It's just stuff that you consume
It's not it barely food. It's only food by technicality
Hehehehe
Controversial opinion mauler the best episode of buffy is not once more with feeling it's hush the episode with the gentleman and no one can talk
I mean, that's not really controversial the the three episodes that are typically considered
Best of are those two and the body those three are often touted as the best. I think they're all fair choices
Uh, you know remarkable republican wants to be on efap
And again, it's shit. It's not of high priority
The idea that he was to defend the position that we counted of
the things that he said in this video that c3po is
A lesbian, you know what and I concede he's right. Uh,
Yeah, we we agree with we agree with him about literally everything. There's no reason to waste
Darth vader ripped off robocop
Yeah, it was obvious darth vader ripped off a film that literally came years later. That's that's the kind of power
Or sorry that came years before um or after yeah after so
I just trying to keep the bullshit straight in my head. It's difficult because everyone's a lesbian in this universe
so
Yeah, he was right all along we're convinced
Uh, hello rags
Hello, what is the topic of your next video?
Um
Feminist propaganda
It's I was going to release it it's actually done
Um, I was going to release it today, but it was with efap and everything. I decided i'd go ahead and wait have it
You know release it tomorrow
Um, also, let me actually double check. Um, it should still be
it is actually monetized which is
Kind of great. I'm glad what about what about releasing it once at the end of this stream we send people
No
Sorry people. I tried I cried
They're all gonna hate trying harder, but I try I want to
Yeah, I probably want to be like around for it
And after this i'm probably gonna just take a nap because i'm tired
I'll put it out in the finish tomorrow
I
Slept through my alarms and missed the first five hours kindly get the other guests back and start again
That's a weird rhyme. Yeah, I didn't I was expecting
I thought that was gonna like rhyme and everything just went on
Roses are red violets are blue. Sorry. I fell asleep. Uh, get the guests back
Okay
Lord of the rings are kind of overrated. They did not age. Well
What that's that's a super chat that is a super chat from patrick mulligan
How do you ban people he is referring to the?
Is he maybe referring to the ralph bakshi ones I doubt it because we were talking about lord the regs, uh
that's
wow, that is uh
Oh man, um
You know what you know how we talk about shit opinions on efap
That that's kind of one of them man
Um lord the rings has aged exceptionally well
Yeah, we watched them not too long ago and
They just hold up really well
But um, yeah, you know what we have to do the thing we respect your opinion right guys, that's what you're supposed to say in this situation
Definitely no one's saying it. Oh no
I oh, yeah, definitely
If you want to know why hoe underscore mo's underscore x uality is a mental disorder
Then just look at jay's skeptic spigory
J from red letter media or the axi or our j
We have to refer to him as our I feel like yeah, I feel like we need like a call sign for him
Uh, so maybe it has to be our eyes on j
So angry gemini man took over the imac screen near me even though joker is sold out at 11 p.m
As someone who did arts and movie programming college. I hope the cue ball that runs that theater gets fired
I'm, sorry rah, but maybe you could go see gemini man. I hear it's um,
Has anyone said anything about it yet?
Is anyone aware of jereb jeremy bad jeremy jeremy man
All right, gemini man on metacritic
It is at a
Metascore of 39. Oh, no and a user score of 3.7. Mm
Okay. Um, well, let me look for let me go on rotten tomatoes. Um, interesting
26% of critics liked it. It's got a 26 on the tomato meter audience score is 84 liked it
Very interesting. That's however the imdb score is 5.6 out of 10. Oh, that's bad. Especially what is this new?
It's hardcore mix. I'm actually picturing because I remember the trailer for jereb
Yeah, but like that I was thinking like jeremy bad would just be jeremy from geeks and gamers is trying to kill jeremy from
Chasing himself like a young fish. It's like jeremy bad
jeremy
Uh, hi rags
Hello
next video when
tomorrow
All right. There we go. Nice and nice and slick and easy that one supposed to get new star wars trailer tomorrow
Oh is it tomorrow?
Well, either way, yeah, we'll we'll check it out
First we gotta we gotta kick the tears on first
I've sat through the credits each time because I love the music actually performed send in the clowns for all
Eastons in high school and last night after the credits
The girl behind me asked aloud why there was no n credits and her old dad said disney is the devil laugh my ass off
I mean, yeah
There's an expectation with like anything to do with comic book movies now
They'd be like is there a dad credits scene? Is there a mid credits scene? Is there a movie after the credits?
Sure, it looks like gemini man. It only its opening weekend was just 20 million
Ooh
It's six hours ago on indywire joker could be headed for one billion, but gemini man is a box office disaster
Oh well
It seems that adam's family has buried gemini man
Adam's family
That's like an animation isn't it as well. It's not like um
Because I haven't I haven't even seen it marketed and it beat gemini
Jeremy man, I want to call it. Jeremy bad for me. I saw it on a
Yeah, I saw it on a poster to that the movie theater I went to
Because i've seen the jeremy man ad several times
I i'm surprised that that's happened. But there we are people want to see joker more
I only know about this adam's family thing because of the ihop commercials
Wow
Uh joker unbridled praise. Yes, but no promises as to when it may or may not release
You can get around the chat filter by using unconventional characters like riz riz tak ridded
ba yah yah hot
new year
Be creative my massives also. Hi rags
hello
I was only shot five times during my joker screening toughen up you fairies
Also, hi rags
Hey also have bale and draw jar jar killing the night king
Jar jar killing the night king i'm on board with that
Okay, I gotta admit I want to see that too now
Anakin asking tech support what he should do tech support sir
Please to be killing the younglings to accomplish the needful by the way. Fuck youtube support
Is
Killing the younglings to accomplish my man was made for 138 million dollars
Wasn't joker 55 million
Joker was low budget. Yeah from whatever. Yeah, it doesn't it certainly doesn't look high budget
Dude, if joker's if joker's made that much money, they're totally gonna make a sequel
Oh, yeah, they're getting like
Ease the they might get a hundred times their investment back. Fuck it. He'll be like make a joke at 12 already
cool
Uh, what did the universe say to the industrial refrigerator damn baby you're celestially bone chilling
And I like it it's a good reference
You guys are all just cynical jeremy men
Hmm rags no being a pure breed means you're an incest baby
What what does he think all sheebs are related
Well, isn't to be purebred means you gotta be bred within
uh
Not like family lines, right? It just means other purebred. I don't know how dogs work
I mean just there I think it's just the both of the parents were sheebs who both of their it just
All the all of the air and their ancestors have been the same species
Or at least as far back until they decide to cut it
You know until they say this is the line for you being purebred
Like two sheep just generally use these sheebs big sheebs
So i'm not like a mutt or anything
Uh rags red rocket replica dildos when
Um i'll get into talks with bad dragon and see what we can come up
How long will the long man's efap dildo be
uh
Pretty long, but i'm gonna tell you right now. It ain't the length that you need to worry about
You can you can you could slide quite a bit up there. It's
It's the stretching. I think that you gotta you gotta get yourself accustomed to it'll be a choose your own length
Sort of sort of thing. It'll be the like. Oh, yeah, they'll come in multiple sizes
There will be like efap mini sizes. There will be efap gaming sizes. Yeah and the movie size, of course
absolutely
We'll be efap movie sizes. Then we'll just be efap size
Uh spams sardonic has reddit for ihe tlj video
I don't know what you mean. His video is not like gone or anything
Is there and thanks. I don't don't spam any reddit for any reason because it's just gonna result in trouble
Um, I think movie bob is in his 40s. He's admitted on twitter that he lived in his parents basement until he was 30 years old
I don't know. I can't even guess his age. Honestly
Yeah, he has to at least be in his 30s though, uh, it's all I can really my pair
my parents offered to
Let me stay home if I paid them, you know rent like I couldn't just stay home for free
But I was like man. I just gotta be on my own. I gotta have my own place
I gotta have my own, you know independence and everything and you know, all right and off I went
found a place
Got another one now. Like it's great. I love being I love I love being able to do what I want when I want
you know
Agree, it's wonderful
Uh
Popping in just to give you money because I can popping off because I haven't seen joker yet toodles
Toodles, hi rags
Hello
Shooting commies is one of the best things in life
Okay, I believe it rags is extremely adorable. Oh
oh
Can you guys google bernard goats and tell me if you think he is similar to joker any influence?
Also, little people can survive longer falls
Okay, is that true I mean
American vigilante who rose to national fame when he shot four african-american males on a new york city subway train in
1984 wow
interesting
yeah, I
Well, I have no idea. Yeah, I don't know. Um
It could be he's quoted as yeah, he's got quotes here and everything
You can't let yourself be pushed around you can't live in fear. That's no way to live your life
Um
Ginger is just the n-word rearranged. That's true. Yeah the more the more you know, I guess
uh
Our ranger johnny bosh is half korean. So he was confused as to which line to enter
He talked about it on a panel. Don't know which one wow
I guess that's the the proof for the power ranger thing
It's gonna be awkward you're like i'm both of the things which other things do I do it with they're like
Uh four dead in shooting in new york city over the weekend, but it was related to illegal gambling media be like
Are you sure it wasn't inspired by joker?
Yeah, just tell me they had a clown mask on please please
Well, who would win a model t-800 or robocop?
uh
I feel like the t-800 would beat robocop
Um, but i'd have to watch robocop again to remember
But he just like is a really good shot with a pistol which doesn't do much at all to a t-800
Yeah
But you have to assume that he's smart enough to know maybe that drives about smart
I don't know. It's interesting. I don't think it's like an easy
Answer, but um, you know
Give me your long man. Daddy mauler uwu
You already said it mauler and gang you already said uwu are they said it was that you think are objectively good
But you either hate or don't care for subjectively
I think we've answered this before i'm trying to remember what the answer say say that one more time. So, uh
Objectively good but subjectively low but films like that for you
Um, I mean it's generally
I like the things that make films objectively good, but let me see
Objectively good that I didn't like
um
I
Man I don't actually know I would have to
Think about it, um
There's probably plenty of games that are technically competent and mechanically consistent that I just don't care for because of their style
Um, this might be one of those genre things where there's like there's i'm sure there's many great
horror movies out there and really good documentaries and
Like a lot of stuff like that, but this pure it's fine fine stuff finally made
But I just i'm not interested and I don't like it. Not I just don't care about it
For me the first thing that springs to mind is uh, inglorious bastards
Um, I have now this is keep in mind. I only saw it once
I saw it during a really bad period of my life and I was bored by reading pretty quick there
Huh getting defensive. Yeah. Well, i'm just saying like take it with a grain of salt because
Oh, it's about your feelings. So you got to take it with a greatest. Yeah, I guess
yeah, so the thing of it was it's like
The as far as I back because I remember it the characters were like
Rehashing like a lot of what the audience already knows to like other characters at really lengthy periods of time
Uh, the subtitling all over all of the french kind of like really got to me
I got kind of like
tunnel vision after a while
So, uh, yeah, i'd probably have to see it again to you know
Really figure out whether or not I was super wrong
um for me
uh
so like 2001 a space odyssey comes to mind with how I
I've always felt like it did structurally everything's working, but um
I'm not getting much in the fields department. Um similar thing happens with godfather funnily enough
Considered one of the greatest films of all time. I recognize what's very very strong about godfather, but I don't
Uh get much going for me on a personal level reaction wise i'm just sort of like
Yep, this this makes sense. This is well put together
Um, I guess that's kind of the experience that um
Um
It goes that way like there's a couple movies that you can sort of recognize structurally how well put together they are but then
Not doing something for you that other things do on a personal level
Complicated but
Interesting regardless that it that it can happen because you try you try and figure out what it is that's not working for you
Specifically which is an interesting part discovering more about your taste
would you say that about like, um
The wall that when we watch that
Uh, that'd be that's complicated because it's a music video slash film right like it's very artsy and music based so
Because I don't know if like I obsessing like the objective qualities of that would be
Some word i'm i'm certainly not quite used to it's kind of its own thing
um
Maybe a um
I don't know
An interesting question regardless I would have to look at my like filmography and figure out which ones um
Uh qualify I guess
um
Happy thanksgiving from canada you massives
Oh, thank you. I hope canada's going well for all the people having the thanksgiving's there
Having fun eating plentifully
Rags, where did you order your sword from
Albion
Look at that's like the website, isn't yeah, you just google albion swords. It'll be right there
Bringing needs efap mini movies to bolster his number of appearances when it comes to efap guesting jay crushes all
Time to have him on full time
Bringing you
For jay saying for full time and I mean
I think jay's got the most time because he keeps he happens to turn up on some of the like really long
uh efaps he also turns up on a lot of them in general, but uh
Yeah, he has got a lot of efap
Crazy, so as uh as we established jas bullshit has a lot it may be half of jay's, but it's still a lot
yes
Into the game relatively late that's your opinion
Um rags getting a sword i'm excited to see an okami style fan art rags
Yeah, god, maybe it'll get done. I'm excited to get it. I really I really do want a sword
It's only natural
Something should just the thing you should do you should have a sword
Deer rags if you exercise your right deer rags if you weren't a weeb you'd pick a proper weapon like a bill hook or a halberd
I mean, I really like halberds and spears and that sort of thing
Obviously if I was going to fight someone i'd want something like that
but swords have this coolness and they're very very iconic and
They they aesthetically they're very they're first off halberds are fucking long as shit bill hooks can be as well
They're not as flashy
they're not as um
Swords have that kind of
That that quality about them. They're very cool. They're very ornamental
um
They're they're easier to move around and use
They're just special in their own way
Yeah, they kind of got a they've got a cool ass history to them
And it's like it there's there's a lot of metal to them to the point where you need to have like some pretty
Outstanding craftsmanship in order to get this thing right
You know, so it's like I can see the appeal definitely
Uh yo rags ever think of getting a p.o box
Yeah, I have um
Sorry, that's kind of on my uh, sort of on my to-do list I guess
Yes
So maybe maybe maybe soon I just gotta go down there and get one set up
Uh, why do american children bully each other when americans are so well armed shouldn't the strong fear the weak when anyone you can kill
Kill you if they want
Um, I don't think american children carry guns typically
Yeah
not legal
Yeah, pretty
Children bullying children, like they're not going to worry about guns most of the time
Yeah
Rags you're a cool dude and I appreciate you. Hi
Oh
Thank you
And also hello. I I agree i'm super cool the coolest
Mueller I showed my friends at work some efap memes in no context namely akbar's theme in your spooky gay town story
They thought it was hilarious and now they're in jokes at wig the brood
I don't know what about my spooky town story
Spooky gay town story
I don't remember that part of it, but fair enough
Well, I don't know man. What did they do to the woman they burned her so obviously a gay town
Yeah, I get rid of the females
People could catch the straight. Yeah, I just didn't see that connection. But now I did
In fact, I only see that connection
Uh
Got done with efap three of chinoble and really enjoying. Oh, sorry episode three of chinoble
And really enjoying it how many times did that one guy have to be told about the call being open fuck that guy
Well, yeah, he's um
He's the guy that kind of helps
Be the one of the bigger pieces of the puzzle that fucks everything up
Fucks everything up
But not really for everybody in that
When you get arch war hammer on you got to confront him on his bs war hammer reviews
The massive reviews dlc with game breaking mods and then blames the dlc
I do I don't know enough about
The war hammer games to to know that's no I haven't played him
Yeah, like I wouldn't be able to call anything out about that self because I know anything about war hammer
Uh rags for a meme, would you mind shouting echo?
Shouting echo
Um, yeah, sure
Um, I guess i'll do it in a few different volumes you have echo
You know something not quite that not quite that loud. Then you have echo
So maybe you could add some reverb to that. You have something bigger echo
So maybe maybe that'll maybe that'll do it
I don't know. I don't I don't want to just scream it to the mic, but you know, maybe you got that volume
Strong selection echo echo echo
Yeah echo on your meme
Ari rag snake story and you guys response to my chat, but what was the guy who sent it? What who was it?
Oh, uh
Justin uvak unt
Okay, if that wasn't it what that wasn't right. Let me know
um
Ari rags his snake story and you guys response to my chat by the college friend of the condition
I was tall and stronger than my peers as a kid but got pulled aside by some very good teachers at my catholic school
Who made sure I didn't become too much of a bully
Went on to become the based monitor people liked in school and then social chair in college glad I didn't end up like the train guys
Definitely go with the talking dick. You can
Just make oh, right. Sorry, that's separate. But yeah, uh
I mean it you're the you didn't end up being a mean person
excellent
You've got like this moral and really heartwarming story by the way talking dick by the way go with the talking dick
It's still raw. So definitely go with the talking dick. You can just make the chick you're nailing yell to drown it out
The talking hole is terrible because I don't need my a-hole nagging me while i'm bullying someone else
That was a really good question
Depending on how it's set up. Maybe the maybe your asshole helps and offers, you know, it gives you critical
Advice on how to be a better bully who knows? Yeah
We this is why we need more information about the asshole. It's true
Uh, would you rather have your childhood raped by george lucas or have your dreams and childhood stolen by world leaders like poor old greta thunberg?
That's an interesting
Wow, that's really specific
Would I rather have my childhood raped by george lucas or something completely different and unrelated? Um
I don't know man. What was the second one? Have your wait, uh
Have your dreams and childhood stolen by world leaders like poor old greta thunberg
So have you wait so if your childhood is either raped or
Your childhood is stolen and your dreams are stolen as well. Seems like the second choice is just worse
I'll keep my adult dreams if it means I lose my childhood. I guess yeah
Think especially if it's only relating to like star wars, I suppose
Are you doing fellas sands in smash bros week five
All right
Please stop i'm trying to eat ditta. I don't know what we were talking about. Uh at that point
Yeah, we were talking about the dicks in the ass. Oh naturally
uh or
Yeah
Could john carpenter's the thing absorb a xenomorph with the acid blood just burn through?
Good question the thing copies dna, right? So it would probably
I imagine as long as one little piece of the thing survives
From the acid burning through it. It would I think it would win honestly
Yeah, I think the thing pretty much wins against almost everything except fire
I don't yeah, I get I don't know if I don't know if yeah, I guess it would depend if the acid
Like if the thing attacked alien
In the acid get on the thing. I think it would hurt the thing
Yeah
So we picturing like the let's just picture a big blob of the thing falls on to alien and starts infecting it
would
Eventually piercing through alien's body eventually leads the acid spilling out
Does thing infect things or just copy them? Well, it like attaches to them and forms around them and
And copy and it depends on like it can absorb as well, right?
That is a good question I never actually saw the thing movie I played a really terrible video game of it
I guess we need to watch both of them again and really think this through
Hey, yeah, I I didn't see the remake so
Oh fuck the remake we're not we're not counting that do we have to count that
Yeah
Is it canon is it thing canon? I don't know. I guess it is. Well, it's as canon as
Like the terminator movies are cannons the terminator. So I guess
I guess what should we just what a chat saying for the most part?
Uh type one for the thing type two for alien who wins in a fight between the thing and alien
And let's just picture it to be fair like an alien sized blob of the thing. I don't know how to really
Um, I think I think i'm gonna go with alien
Yeah, the alien is pretty freaking sweet. I mean
I mean, I guess it would matter if how could it like the kill shot? How would it kill like it could tear the thing apart?
But we've got a lot of votes for the thing
so yeah, because if because
All the alien could rip the thing apart, but the thing it'd still be alive. That doesn't kill it. It has to be
Burned as far as we know. Yeah, it has to be
I guess just blowed up
Um, or it has to be only feasible way. I quite melted with acid
Yeah, because the alien can't do any kind of chestburster kill on it. It's not happening
It'd have to be acid. So assuming the alien
could
Basically melt the thing
Sure
But I don't know if if that's a thing that it could feasibly do so I I don't know
Or maybe it would just be a stalemate where an alien constantly just rips the thing apart until it reforms again
basically, like every time they encounter each other it's just the
thing gets ripped up but
Oh, we don't we don't need a stroll poll. I was gonna say this majority ones in chat
Yeah, it's it's it's very strange my guess would be the thing I could see it
Yeah, I could see it going either way. I guess it depends on the deets
Um
It would be cool if they made a joker sequel and addressed the psychological idea that batman might be crazy
I don't know that we'd have batman in a joker sequel
Like if you had a joker if he eventually came in it probably like the joker three or whatever
I probably want another movie about arthur's journey
Take your time sort of thing
Don't need to worry about a teenage batman. I mean
I don't know if they would I don't know. I don't know what's gonna happen
I'll see thoughts on scorsese. I find him very overrated. Uh, i'm a big fan of a lot of his movies
um
But I mean I don't agree with him about his take on marvel and I don't like love all of his movies or anything
uh
He might be overrated, I mean, you know, it's the same thing when like
He's considered like one of the best directors of all time. Is that overrated? I don't know
I don't know how to judge. What do you guys think of scorsese or do you not exactly know his filmography? I don't know
Yeah, I just don't yeah, I just don't
Know the directors of a lot of these movies, you know, just don't know it by memory
Yeah, I have a hard time remembering the directors like I mean, you know
There's james cameron the easy ones to remember and then i'm I kind of get lost at that point, you know
Like shutter island was great
I really liked shutter island. I did enjoy that one. That was a good one. I do love departed whether or not it's um
Feels a lot of plot points from other another film. I remember people saying I should be aware of that
did not see
Obviously taxi driver and king of comedy good shit
um
I think of like
I don't know. I don't know if I'd say he's overrated or not. I I guess I need to find out what how people write him
overall
But um, I do like his stuff. Yeah, I did go. Oh, it's bruce wayne when he showed up and I clapped when his parents got killed
Oh my
Um
Does superman wear a kryptonite cock ring so he doesn't get shotgun blast through lowis's womb
That's actually a fair point you got a minute
That's gonna be that's gonna just gonna come out fast
like
Gotta be careful not to hurt people and stuff like this. These are these are issues that often don't get uh addressed
In the superman movies and I think that's a shame because it really it's trying to hide away from reality, you know
unacceptable
Disrespectful molar it's pronounced waki not yokwin
yokwin
Yokwin has anybody been saying yokwin
No, I I would totally understand how someone who's unfamiliar with the actor would have no idea how to pronounce his first name
Oh, yeah, i've heard so many different pronunciations. It's kind of funny to hear them all
I don't know if you're
I'm actually curious where the name comes from if that's like an ethnic name or if it's it's a very strange name
Walking walking
walking
Walking phoenix
Now here we are
How about the next dc movie but deniro is hit by a safe dropped randomly on him
Or deep fake him onto everyone who dies in joker
What why are these the two options
I mean deep fake it so it wouldn't be real so
I just it would also be funny to see safe or he's deep faked onto everyone who dies in joker
Why are those the two options it it would be funny watching three robert deniro's beating up a clown on a subway
That would just make me smile
I think that'd be hilarious. I still like how
How dc unified robert deniro keeps getting killed
It's just like this bizarre idea. I'll tell you he's the shaun vian of dc
Uh better dead than red you're massive
Missed most of this stream due to recording a podcast responding to houston productions awful joker review. Also. Hi wags
Hello
I I I think I knew he made a joke of it. I didn't know it was a terrible one. So I will try and check out
Um because I was from southpaw
Um, i'll probably skim through at the very least i'm interested to see what uh, what's going on with that
Because your awful joker takes we know all about that. Don't we gentlemen? Oh, yes
I've seen one or two of those in my day or three or four
communists aren't people
I agree that's a super chat. All right. I agree. I used to think my life was a cringe compilation now
I realize it's a try not to laugh video
I mean, I get it. Those are in me
I get it. Uh rags twice is a coincidence thrice is a pattern. Remember that
Yeah, that's what i've heard kick j off a roof. Oh, no
No
Jay the big gay
If he's got the big gay ain't dying from falling off a roof the gay will protect him. I don't know man bounce right back
Hollywood can good gun sounds but that's about it
I think that's in reference to the other aspects. Yeah. Yeah, the pistol thing I did
Yeah, that's one of the reasons I like like termator two a whole bunch and a lot of aspects of john wick
especially the first one
I haven't seen the third one yet. Is that worth seeing?
Go on rags you you still think it's fun, right? Like it's like a it's like a fun sort of
It's like a fun sort of uh, go get them but
It's so I mean terminator three in a sense
The story is bad
Everything but it's just the story is like the story is nonsense
Um
the fight scenes are
very very mixed
um
We're we're pretty much getting into supernatural levels of john wick's invincibility and conveniences of bad guys
Like the first movie was really good at it
But two and three just like forgot he was mortal
Um, not to mention the fucking wheel building is hilarious
Yeah, the it yeah the the setup from the first one
is really
Like I think in the second one it wasn't like terrible
As far as this is going off of memory but in the third one it's just batshit insane
So it's kind of like um
The protector with tony jaw. It's all like there's fight scenes. The story is fucking terrible
And the fights are pretty okay, it's just that
You can't look you can't look at john wick two and three's fight scenes in the same way
That you look at the first john wick's fight scenes because the first john wick's fight scenes were
Grounded and pretty realistic in their depictions. Uh, they very much they portrayed john as
Very very good at what he does and he's a mortal human
Who can get shot and stuff like that. So he takes care to behave in a way understanding that he's vulnerable
but in
john wick two and three
He's just saved by conveniences and stuff like that and he acts like he's invincible. It's
I don't it takes a lot away from my investment in the fights and his
His behavior in general
So he keeps a cross in his pocket and then everywhere else he gets hit. It's another cross in his pocket
Yeah, it's like in the first john wick
You get the impression that you could actually do that if you had you if you were a super good assassin
Trained your whole life and you were constantly like you the best a human being could be it was believable
Like that was a thing that could be done. But in in the second and third there was just like man
Now we're starting superhero clothes. Maybe you'll
Get closer
And this is the thing I know
Just just preemptively there's you you've probably pissed off a lot of people already because john wick is a bit of a sacred cow
Metal commander is still working on his very first review that i'm
Lending a hand to he's uh currently finalizing a script
He's gonna cut a couple redrafts probably because he's coming over to my place in about a week now
He's gonna do the audio and i'm gonna show him a bunch of editing stuff while he's here and we're hopefully gonna
Get a video out that we can at least point to for like things that are wrong with john wick 3 in a concise quick fun video
so
Yeah, I mean two and three are fine in terms of just like action sequences, but unfortunately and i'm really really unfortunately
You've got to just turn your brain right off
If you're watching two and three
I mean, it's it's very it it it goes from thoughtful
Well detailed fights to just enemies throwing themselves at john wick's bullets
Or just it's it's dumb. It's super dumb two and three are dumb
Okay, so if you don't if you don't care about that so much then
Sure, watch them if you do care about them
Then it will be difficult for you to find investment in them
Got it. So if it shows up on netflix, sure. Otherwise don't bother
You
Yeah, I mean it's I mean it's
I don't know
Watch the witch
The witch that's a that's a strange one jump from from john. Oh, yeah, you're talking about spooky movies the witch
Yeah, that that would happen. I haven't seen it. I love that movie
Nice and a great example of how horror isn't quite dead yet
Because still people try to make horror movies
It's a masterpiece of tone and atmosphere
And christ, when's the last time we get a really good horror game lately?
horror game
I don't I don't know actually. Yeah, i'm not even up to date for a while. It was like
For a while. It was like beaten into the ground and then all of a sudden it stopped
Uh
Favorite first movie scene mines two towers doesn't get more metal than gandalf storm crow fighting the balrog in freefall
Yeah, that's that's up there
um
but I
That's a tough question. I'd have to look through the library and think about all the opening scenes for movies
Well, even opening a fellowship the exposition
Even that's good. Yeah, it's awesome in its home
Oh, yeah, no, you're right. You're you're i'm sorry joseph. You're absolutely right. Oh, not joseph
It was a zurinator resident evil 2 remake. That was fucking excellent. I love that thing. Anyway, kiria
Hmm opening saving power rhymes pretty fucking amazing
What one saving power ryan
Hmm any others that come to mind
You
Give us a moment having a big think
Yeah, there's probably a shit ton actually once you stop and think about it, um
Opening like opening scenes that were really good. Um
Um
Let me see the dark night's opening scene was pretty cool
You
Man it I i'm sure if we went through a list we'd have tons but just uh,
Think off the top of your head. Yeah. Yeah, um
I would say
I like wally's intro
Establishing you know the trashy earth and everything a lot of storytelling was in there a lot of show don't tell
Mm-hmm sets the sets the story up really really nicely
I don't want to watch that again
Also genuinely two towers is a very good choice as well that last scene with the balrogs fucking bad. Yeah, that's fucking badass
Ah, um
Try i'm just trying to remember
The stuff that i've seen, uh
I like the one well, um
Jeez
It's just like it's almost like picking whether they're all in this cloud and you got to pick one out
Yeah, we're probably gonna be able to give great answers within the time. That would be reasonable. I'm just gonna check through lists and stuff
um
Yeah, like civil wars opening scene as well, but I probably wouldn't
Rate it as high as some of like the greatest ones from my perspective. Yeah, pretty good, but
Oh, uh, oh, um, uh inglorious bastards
Oh fuck yeah, that seems great
Um game is rise up we live in ras society
possible
diddly mcdoolittle
diddlebo
baginsley
No, no press one if chim and z looks like witty the poo
well
It's nick paladius was trying to write shrek and he put skirk
I also saw somebody say matrix as matt matirks
Uh, hey mauler, when will you read me jumbo and slave layer fan fictions?
I can't promise when that'll happen, but uh, i'm not gonna say it's impossible
communist sympathizers spotted in the comments. Oh my goodness
Warriors of virtue is about kung fu kangaroos for kids
What is the one for?
Uh for chim and the
Being it looks like we need the poo
Oh, oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah, jijin pain. Uh,
Hashtag free hong kong. Sorry, not sorry about my other chats
Absolutely
This weekend has been a roller coaster did my first skydive bathroom on the top floor flooded and now efap keep up the good work
Or good good also. Hi rags
Hello
The chest 28. Oh, oh, um great movie intros 28 weeks later. Yep. That's another good one
That's a really good one
A bit where he's running across the like hill or whatever and they're all chasing
Yeah, oh the whole the whole thing where they start attacking the house and everything. Oh, that's great
Uh glass china people complain about overpopulation and they eat puppies
Some girl trained her dog to be a vegan she posted a photo the poor thing was so skinny. It looked like it wanted to die
Yeah, I hate that that shit pisses me off nobody likes animal suffering so well, I say nobody likes it obviously
There's some people I guess unfortunately, uh, hitler killed the wrong people
Right maula shag mary kill rags wolfy self
um
Myself as in like a what was it like a clone of myself?
Like a clone of myself
or like me
because
How would I can I even legally marry myself? Is that a thing?
Is this do we assume it's a clone or not?
It was shag mary kill but I was involved in it
Help
I'm gonna I'm gonna go ahead and speak for him and say it's a clone. Well, it is a clone
I'm gonna choose kill for me because I don't want there to be two mes running around. It's gonna be too creepy
And he was the clone i'm sure of it. I was the real one i'm sure of it
um
And then shag and mary. Um
You know
That's tough man, that's like a coin flip gonna
You would absolutely shag me. It's not even fucking close. Why rags? Why would you say that?
Marry means infinite shags
You can infinitely shag someone you're not married to well, so why what do you mean then?
Well, this isn't the book of leviticus
So, what do you mean? How is it easy choice? It's it's of course you would shag me
Yeah, but marion means I can do that. Anyway, why give up this charade?
Why do you why do you think marion excludes people from shagging?
Why do you think that not marrying excludes them from I don't but I i'm considering whether or not
As much as you I know I get to shag I get to shag you and wolf whenever I want for as long as I want
But which one do I marry? It's just a matter of which one you're married exactly
And I I didn't realize you were so against me marrying you. I'm sorry. I I was interested but I guess it's the bachelor's life for me
Well, you know, well in that case then the answer I gotta respect his wishes. I guess i'll shag rags and marry wolf
We'll watch buffy. It'll be fine
Yeah, I think that works out just fine. The god emperor sees rags happy doggo dance. What in the fuck?
This is actually very cute. Look at its little legs and oversized body adorable
Yay
Uh mola, why do you have a sound?
Mola, why do you have a soundcloud link in your about section?
Well, I had it for back when I was using it for like
um
voice acting stuff, but uh
I mean why I could use it for something one day maybe efap if I ever figured that out
I have to like open up a soundcloud. I think you have to do a monthly thing for that or itunes
I don't know. I just haven't removed it yet. Uh, but I don't think I will I don't think I need to remove it
You know
Um could upload anything there. You never know. Did you hear that spongebob offends college professor? I have heard of that. I have
I have there was a time in my life where I would be shocked
Um
Exterminatus china darth vader says free hong kong
What came first the chicken or the egg
No the chicken
I mean if we're going I mean evolutions of things so
the chicken
Well, I think they're like referring to just like
Uh, it could be a trick question where it could be any egg including fish eggs
Hmm
Wait bull, I mean isn't the whole point
Where did the egg come from a chicken had to have laid it but then where did the chicken come from must have cracked open
From an egg, you know, it's a biological
Attempt to solve the issue of potential infinite regress
Which isn't an issue within biology at least not in this sense
But since that's the thing because evolution works so slowly and so gradually and evolution applies to populations and not individual
Both are sort of
the answer
the egg becomes
Eventually you get to a point and it is arbitrary to a degree because the grad the changes are so gradual
Well dinosaurs used to be no birds used to be dinosaurs so
Slowly, but should I guess
Well, it depends on where you want to call is like is is that is the point where you arbitrarily declare that something is now a chicken
Right the the chicken's ancestor has now become a chicken
Does that begin with the chicken egg or does that begin when the chicken?
Has hatched essentially
Yeah, like because I mean you don't you don't go to it. You don't go to the store, right?
You don't go to the grocery store
And say i'm gonna buy i'm gonna buy a dozen chickens in eggs. You just say eggs. So
Not all I mean it's the thing is like
There would have been a chicken that cracked out of something that just didn't qualify as an egg
and then that chicken that came from it started laying what does qualify as eggs and then vice versa
So a chicken was laid
Broke out of an egg that didn't quite count as what we classify as a chicken
But then it laid an egg that does have what we classify as chicken in it. It's like this fine fine line jeans
The chicken genes would be inside the first egg
of what we would
classify as the first chicken
Right, so it's really just a matter of do you consider it the first chicken?
While it's in the egg or after it hatches
I would say it's still the egg because eggs would like pre-date the chicken and then like eventually
Species that laid eggs over and over again eventually. No, no, no, it's not talking about the concept of like a an egg
It's that's like the the specifically the creatures that were we're talking about chickens, you know, which of them came first
Yeah
Because there's a whole oh the all chickens come from eggs those eggs come from came from chickens
But all chickens came from eggs and those eggs. So that's why there's a you got to put an arbor
It's completely arbitrary where you call
you know, it is now officially a chicken it used to be
a
Whatever it is a a pre-chicken and now it is a chicken and eventually chickens will
Evolve into a post chicken and that will be called something else or we're gonna call it a different kind of chicken
And it won't happen in our lifetimes nor in many many many lifetimes come
but we already have different kinds of chickens, but
we have speciation in that regard, but
That that that first chicken had to have come out of an egg though
Like they didn't just like, you know mutate right then and there and boom chicken, you know what I'm saying?
Well it well, that's the thing evolution applies to populations and not individuals so
If you have a do you consider the first chicken?
Do you consider it to be a chicken while it is still in the egg?
Or do you consider it to be a chicken when it hatches?
Like because if you see an egg laying on the ground, you don't say oh look a chicken you say it's an egg
It's when it you know
When it hatches it's oh chicken
Sure, but when it hatches they ask oh dang, that's a chicken. Where did it come from? They can't say, huh?
Well, we know where it came from. Yeah an egg which came first
Well, it came from an egg but it let's say it's about where you decide when it becomes a chicken much like
Is a like when if you could you could do this similarly to when does a human
zygote essentially become a human
Is like is it literally like the instant that an egg fertilizes uh is fertilized by a
Sperm cell is that a human being?
Like it depends
That's why it's such a messy conversation a lot of the times because it's not like boom
Now is the point where it becomes a human being
and it depends on who you ask and it's influenced by your ideology and
Not so simple and the same thing can be said about chickens
When does it become a chicken? When do we distinguish between?
cells growing inside of you know a
a shell
You know a growing developing embryo at what point does it become a chicken?
Mahler i'm not hearing elevator music. Why would I hear but this is not an argument. This is a discussion
I can't just throw it on any old time
Elevate music is very important. I can't believe you'd suggest something
Yeah, but you turned it on when we were talking about microtransaction with wolf and we weren't really arguing
We were all agreeing with each other. No, no, no, when did that happen?
We we did that during the 24-hour podcast and uh, we we we brought on tonaled and
During the birth of 1.2. Oh, you know, that might have been peer pressure if chat demanded it. I often give them
Fair enough they haven't requested it. It was just me. Anyway, I got way off topic
I guess we could just go ahead and move on this super chat said what came first the chicken or the egg and it answers
with the rooster
The rooster yeah, there you go
What size trick question all along next time just read the fucking super chat don't let us do this
I mean I you know what I was interrupted i'm sure of it. That's what happened
I was taking a breath to continue and then I was rudely interrupted
It was so long ago. I might have damn well been the one to interrupt you and now i'm upset that you didn't just
That's how this is what our world is right now. This is my life right now
We're doing the thing again, but we accidentally create ridiculously long podcasts
because we're trying to answer these questions to the degree to which the questions seem to
Require I want to give people their money's work exactly
And I don't know all the answers, but i'll try to do what I can to come up with an answer and all of my answers
Tentative based on new information. So i'm just going with what I think I might have. All right
Here comes the next important
Super chat, what would the size of the 24 hour dildo be god damn it?
Fuck um, okay, so
on bad dragon.com
sponsorship pending
They use a a nondescript soda can as the way to
Give you a a good because everyone knows how big a soda can is right? Everyone knows about soda cans
Of course, they have the dildos in built different sizes from very small to
Are you insane?
so
That's the point of reference, right? It's like skeleton key with the dollar bill
so
you would have a
Skeleton key is actually kind of a good one. I like that film
All right. Now I think about scary movies. I like that with morgan freeman and angelina jolie. Mm-hmm
so
They're oh also seven. That was pretty nice guys. That did not star angelina jolie, but yes, it was good
So
I guess like a 24 hour efap size dildo
would be like
It would be like a two liter
Like it'd be insane only an absolute madman who had trained and trained and trained
would even consider the idea
of
Dare, I say it sitting through
a 24 hour
Sized efap dildo does it have air conditioning and i'm like
There's a air conditioning
We for for for air conditioning you need a room and there ain't gonna be no room
Well, i'm just saying you there there are devices. There is technology that
Allows for such things to take place and i was just curious if it has that like
What does air conditioning have to do with it? I don't i'm confused actually
Well, I mean if like you want the dildo pre-cooled
No, no while it's in there just make sure you got all the different creature comforts, uh accounted for
I don't I don't think like a dildo that like sends dry air everywhere is a particularly good idea
You don't want to blow dry air over it if you want to keep it moist and well lubed
Oh, yeah, but you know, what if you over lubed?
You can't over lube I guarantee you can't over lube if anything you should over lube
Well, I mean if it's in the manual i'm not gonna be disagreeing with it
Now you can like over lube with like when you're jerking off like it's so
Goopy and slippery and everything that you just there's no traction, you know
But when it comes to stuff like that, oh, yeah, this lube lube lube lube
lube it on up lube it on up
instead in terms of like stabbers and mr. Man dude says 24 inches so
Damn right chat you quote me on that. You can't over lube. I mean, I feel like that'll pop up in videos at some
You can't over lube
Um
so next up, uh
I used to love lord of the rings, but my last two annual viewings really exposed how much it's aged
It's still good. Just not great like you massive stink
Oh man, when we watched it, we just thought it was even greater. Oh, yeah in fairness
I was gonna say that's a bit of a misunderstanding. We don't think it's good or great. We think it's incredible
Like yeah, it's insanely good like great is kind of an understatement
There is stellar spectacular
It is
Something it is it's on its own level it's not perfect
We noticed a few things here and there but man it was it we thought it really did hold up. Absolutely
We have that it held up very well. In fact, they'll be able to see our coverage of it if
Fucking be fat movies survive being up more than a week
That's all I've been hoping i'm still trying to get doom out of perpetual tool bed. We're getting there. It's still there
Uh, i'm hoping within the next few days. We'll have confirmation that it should work
Now we'll see because you dick
Um 168 hour efap. When I don't I don't know that's possible. It's probably not possible
168 hours like we just left
If we left it like broadcasting for like eight hours for everybody to see everyone had invites and they could change the videos
We could probably manage that so I can actually go to sleep
Yeah, it's like people crank up their steam players by just like sticking at the task bar and then just going to bed
Uh rex, did you animate those doggy dances in your videos? They're very good
Oh, no, no, no, um, the first one was done by phizameras and the second one which i'm actually in the queue for him to
Have that one get slowly but surely added to over time
So it'll have little different
Things and they'll all build up into a a lot progressively longer and longer little dance
Um bro laryn does those
And they are both very very talented
Very very good at what they do and i'm very pleased with how they've turned out
The rest says how do you draw the same image repeatedly and have them look the same without taking forever?
Hell i've wasted hours on a sketch
Honestly your animations scrub the shit out of them
Also use lots of lube. You cannot use
Too much lube, you can't over lube it
Honestly, I I have no idea how animations work. Just be talent. I guess just fucking practice and talent
You see when I say scrub your animations
I mean like go back to your previous frames and make sure everything looks right and then play it in
Progression and see if anything looks out of order if it does you go back and you fix it
It's a really painstaking process that is not a lot of fun. But the end product is great if you can get it, right?
Tomorrow is my 21st birthday. So going out partying with my co-workers wish you all the best and high rags
Hello, have fun. Yeah, have fun
You enjoy film noir movies. Robert Mitchum is the smoothest actor s-word wags
Um
Yeah, i've not seen a huge amount of film noir movies but i've seen a couple
Um, funnily enough angel was heavily inspired by film noir
TV show
I tried to jack off to brie larson nudes because the idea made me randy. But once I saw her I couldn't go through with it
Okay
Now brie larson's not a very good actor, but at least she's pretty you gotta say that
She's not an actor. She's an actress racist. Oh, sorry. Shit. I fucked up the whole thing
I think you've you that's that's a that's a freudian slip as fringy would say as freudian would also say
As freudian would also say he'd say that's a that's a me slip
I slipped freudian
Slipped the alien would die and its acid blood would kill most of the thing
But not all of it unless it gets sprayed on every portion of it
Yeah, which is doubtful
I doubt it too. I think like if it was
Like if it was in terms if it was up to like a judge decision
The the alien would probably win but the thing I don't think you it could get killed
Like I simultaneously don't think the thing
Would have the capability to kill the alien nor the alien have the capability to truly kill the thing
It just rip it up and it would appear later somewhere
Alien rips thing in half now, there's two things
This is this is why i'm saying like it's gonna be tough. What if what if alien ate the thing? Well, I don't know
Like I don't I don't know what goes on in there
The we need to this movie needs to happen that's clearly what we've proven
It needs to be a spin-off needs to be non-canon. We need danny devito starring tommy. We're so directing. That's the dream team
We will have to hire
the greatest special effects people
But the story's super contrived just to have these two fight each other. That's it. The avp
The avp
I read some comments about a batman joker film with arthur being made into the vein of science the lambs with pattinson going for
uh
Patterson going to patterson going to uh, the help with a case
Only good sequel ideas seen so far. I mean wouldn't that
That's like super close to size the labs though. I don't know how people would be able to separate them but
I guess
It's an idea. This is the thing
I'd be pretty cynical about any idea they come up with but
Have faith that they could nail it is the patinson
batman
Separate from the dcu and if so
Are the patents and batman and the joker films?
Like able to create their own universe a thing that can happen. I don't know
Um
Okay, wait a minute angel, I don't know say that okay read that back again, okay. I answered it
Okay
um, I feel
Sorry
In in chat someone said brie as pretty as the worst take we've heard of the cfap. She's not an ugly
She's she's a pretty lady. She's a pretty woman. She's fine. I wouldn't
She's I say I say pretty but but I didn't say like drop did gorgeous or nothing
Yeah, like she she's a pretty lady and fuck her in a heartbeat
It's just a matter of is the is like is her character enough to pay her lack of acting talent
Is like that doesn't it doesn't have anything to do with how pretty she is physically like she's doesn't look bad at all
Let's put it this way. Right? Let's put it this way. Let's ask yourself this question
A wizard comes up to you bear with me
A wizard comes up to you and he says all right
sir
I will I am going to transform you into a woman whether you like it or not
right
For some of us interesting. I've always wondered what the other half is like, but whatever right?
So he said i'm transforming you into a woman, but i'll give you two options
either I will select a
Random woman on the planet to transform you into or you are guaranteed to look like brie larson
Oh, how do you not pick brie larson at that point?
Yeah, it's too risky guys. It's too risky. You'd have to pick brie larson. Which of those do you pick?
Yeah, I would absolutely say i'm got i'm calling it there. I'm i'm taking brie larson
Because that's too much of a risk. Yeah, absolute no-brainer
So I you know, I want to hear chat. I want you to
Yeah, I want you to I mean it it's up to you
But I know ross is random because it has it starts with ra
But I would absolutely go with yeah instead of a random woman on the planet
I would absolutely go ahead and just say cut my losses take brie larson
And then you just don't have to say that weird shit about things not being made for old white men
I'm surprised how people say random. Do you know how risky that is?
Yeah before you say instantly random like think about all the ugly broads in the world
Think about all the fat ugly faces fucked up bad bone structure
flabby
awkward unsightly bad, it's mad there
The there's a lot of just out in your daily life all the ugly chicks that you see
Just step into a walmart ross said I would slap the wizard off of
But I would say I I would take brie larson she she doesn't have an
unpleasant voice
It's just the words that she chooses. They're really in
Yeah, she's not ugly. She's not unattractive at all
I would I would I would I would take brie larson. So yep, totally
All right
That's where you want to roll the die. I mean that it's up to you
It's your choice. But if that roll if remember if that roll doesn't work you're stuck with it for the rest of your lives
And i'll be over here looking like brie larson, baby
Um, I feel rags explainable of my questions was not good. I ask again, how does owl swim through tree?
How does what I didn't even answer this the first time
This is from the previous stream. How does owl swim through tree?
How does owl swim through tree?
Well
He's trying to trick you don't fall for it. I don't know. I guess if you're an you're an owl
It's biomechanics. It's simple
You'd find a tree. That's really you would not like an oak tree or something that has
particularly thick limbs
You know like an ugly broad
What you would do is you would choose a tree that's like a like a dog would
You know or something like that where you could where the the limbs get very flimsy
And they get very bendy very supple
Right
And you could just dive right in there
And the leaves are kind of waxy so they wouldn't like catch on you and they wouldn't poke you like a like a deciduous tree
You know or one or like one of the conifers, you know
You could just go right through it
That's how I'd do it if I was an owl
I'd do something or like like a like a like a like a willow tree
Man, because of because the branches hang really really far or the leaves essentially
They're almost like ferns the way that they hang down
You could you'd probably be able to fly right through that without hitting the branch or anything
Yeah, that's reasonable. Yeah, absolutely
Uh, it ended with also hyrag
Oh, hello
John mc3 is an assassin's creed movie
Um the assassin I've found the quality of assassin's creed games to be
mostly good dish mostly good, but there's some
What like I've enjoyed them for the most part
um
The only one that I just couldn't play was three. I just uh, I just so uninterested in three so
Just did not give a shit about three
I think that's actually with his point
I think he's saying like it diminished in quality right up to three and it got like
That was like the worst I could get at that point because I liked I liked one was okay
I loved two
Um, uh brotherhood was fine
Revelations was fine
Three I didn't care for
um
I really love black flag, right?
Black flag. I I thought it was okay. I just didn't give a shit about the whole boat thing
Um, I just didn't care about driving a boat around
In an assassin's creed game. I heard the whole boat fighting boat thing was fine, but I still care about boats
um, I really liked um
origins quite a bit
And I haven't played odyssey because it doesn't look
good to me
I rented assassin's creed two and then my ps3 died about a quarter of the way through and oh, no assassin's creed two is
Oh
I love the renaissance so much. What a perfect setting for assassin's creed
Love assassin's creed two. I played the shit. It's one of those games for me
You talk about nostalgic games you play that game is one of those nostalgic games for me playing assassin's creed two
Playing it while the tori difference walking around that's interesting. It's the deluxe editions on steam right now
Yeah
I mean supergen said john mc3 is like an assassin's is an assassin's creed movie. Were they just trying to say that?
Is assassin's creed ridiculous? Would and don't think threes are ridiculous
I forgot about the fucking assassin's creed story
It just like kept going and going and shit and I was like, oh what's happening?
I don't know do objectives kill people stab a nigga. I don't care
Listening while playing dark souls one. It's so disappointing compared to the objective brilliance of dark souls two scholar of the first sin
I know you're fucking with me, buddy. I know I know you're fucking with me
Oh unity, I really like unity what i've played so far
Unity is really cool. Um, I really like unity
But yeah, they've been mostly good
Some of them are shit
Like I didn't care for that again. There were two of them. I expressly said I just didn't like
And I said I didn't even buy odyssey because it didn't look good
Um, i don't feel about motorboating I approve of motorboating motorboating is definitely the same as you know pirate ships and stuff
I can see the difference
Yeah, sail in the high seas, you know
Uh mola you thought released me from this super chat
I don't uh
I release you with
My powerful wand
I did it don't question what the one wasn't it
Wasn't it assassin's creed two or the final boss was you got in a fist fight with the pope?
True
I'm not even i'm not even joking. I think in assassin's creed two
The final boss was you get into a fist fight with the pope in an alien underground catacomb
beneath like the
Beneath like what like what like a cathedral or something?
That was the end of assassin's creed too. I think and it's every bit is insane. It's just
Let's say what they started getting into the alien stuff and like the pre-civilization stuff and i'm like, okay
And then it was hard to follow because I just cared about etsyo stuff
Uh
Wait mola is actively helping and encouraging a friend to do a good youtube video and help his channel. How toxic can you get?
In fairness people like patrick williams or just right would probably be like, oh, no
Mall is creating another bad reviewer who focuses entirely on consistent stuff. How awful
You gotta focus on better things
Hashtag long live the prc down with hong kong loll
I forgot to say this earlier. Everybody should watch you were never really here phoenix's art house film about creepy sex cults involving senators in new york city
directed by
Lynn ramsey a based pheromoid phoenix. Oh wait a based pheromoid
Phoenix himself grew up in a cult called children of god the black male black male heads of state with child
sexual black male
His brother river mysteriously odied right as the cult was beginning to be investigated
It's one of my favorite films more suspiciously ignored by all these feminist reviewers who cry about women not getting attention in hollywood
Yeah, this sounds like the kind of thing they probably avoid they say women don't get attention in holly
Um, yeah, that was interesting was mathematics invented or discovered
It was invented
Baby girl says hi rags
Hello
maula took your advice and quit the stream to go watch joker just came back from the alamo draft house best film of the
year so far for sure
Yeah, man. I agree
Now when you know when you listen back to this you'll be like movie bob said
Hey rags
Hey been a big fan of all of you guys for a while now only looking forward to episode 9 for your review maula rags
Would be a great shag i'd get on my knees for you anytime, baby
Yeah, oh boy. What about that's a that's a fan right there. That is a fan. I was gonna say that's a true fan
We'll have plenty of fun with episode nine. It's gonna be one spin them right round like a fan. Oh, yeah
Uh eggs pre-date chickens fish lay eggs egg wins
I'm just waiting for someone to be like blow
I mean we've already if you want to if no, we would if the question is
Which came first like the structure that is the egg?
Or the species that we call the chicken
Obviously there were eggs before there were chickens. I think the question is about the the chicken and the chicken egg
I believe that is true. I guess it's the nature of
nature of arbitrary
What point is something because
What point is something?
Start at this and grow up to whatever and when do we call what and did you hold it to standard or whatever?
You cannot use the question was designed to make you think too hard. I guess. I don't know
Cannot use too much lube dildo ragons
Yeah, that's true
uh, maula, would you ever gonna do something back there? I
Freaking promise you you cannot use too much lube
Uh, maula, would you describe yourself as a positivist for media?
I have no idea what that means. If it means trying to lead to a better place
positivist
a positivism
Is a philosophical theory stating that certain positive knowledge is based on natural phenomena in their properties and relations
thus information derived from sensory experience interpreted through reason and logic
Forms the exclusive source of all certain knowledge
Well now I understand the question even less I mean it sounds
So like
I guess i'd have to ask you to repeat it for me to
Better understand exactly what that was positivism positivism also whole also holds that society like the physical world
operates according to general laws
introspective and intuitive knowledge is rejected as our
Metaphysics and theology because metaphysical and theological claims cannot be verified by sense experience
Although although the positivist approach has been a recurrent theme in the history of western thought the modern approach was formulated
by the philosopher august
Auguste comte in the early 19th century
He argued that much as the physical world operates according to gravity and other absolute laws
So to society and further developed positivism into a religion of humanity
Um
To a degree. Yes. I am. Absolutely. Yes. I don't think some stuff that sounds familiar to a degree
I don't know how to translate exactly to media, but i'm sure
I think um
positivism holds that valid knowledge certitude or truth is found only in
Is found only in this a posteriori knowledge?
Um, which just to remind myself
It depends a posteriori knowledge or justification depends on experience or empirical evidence as with most aspects of science and personal knowledge
Yeah, sounds uh
Sounds pretty good
Yeah, I mean I don't don't there's nothing that sticks out to me to disagree with so
But also there are there are mathematical components that come
That you can justify using
examples and
Deductions made from pure reason but that's different and that leads to a rabbit hole and i'm not good with philosophy
So I don't even know where I am
Uh fried ukulele cook kangaroo women they're awful
Cuck kangaroo women cook kangaroo women. I have no idea what that means neither. Do I?
Uh, brie brie larson has a circle face and looks like a gas station hooker
I disagree so she's attractive enough to
Be a sex worker
I mean, I guess they're trying to imply a gas station hooker is the lower end of the spectrum
I guess as opposed to like, I don't know like a
I don't know
bus station hooker
That's a that's a rank up, baby. I don't know
Uh, I don't know. I don't know about the hooker hierarchy. Yeah. I know we need to look into that for the next d5 clearly
We'll get on that
uh
R2d2 pc. No, not R2d2. Red Dead Redemption 2. Fucking L. PC comes out on the steve deceba
But it love it but it love it
But it wait, is it coming on steam?
I thought it was coming out on the rockstar launcher
Oh, I I don't know. I know it is coming out
But I don't know and where it's coming out exactly mathematics were in place and functioning before they were discovered and interpreted
Uh, no, I no, I don't I don't think so. I disagree with that mathematics was invented
Mathematics isn't something that's like intrinsic to reality like like don't confuse the map for the place you have
You like numbers are an invention. We invented numbers. We didn't invent amounts
right
Now we use numbers. We invented numbers to describe amounts essentially
You mean like the distance between two things will never change but the units of measurement we describe them as changes
Yeah, the the the distance that is an inch it will always exist
You know is not just conceptually but that it's something physical. It's it's there but but the inch itself
Like what we call an inch in that classification, that's something we invented to describe a naturally occurring phenomenon
But also the conceptual aspect of that phenomenon as well
Numbers are the same way just with amounts amounts exist without us
But numbers require someone to create them
Um, thank you. Reagan. I think in the same way you have mathematics
So at least that's how I understand it
Uh
Thank you rags and mauler for being so entertaining and informative you really help me out when i'm down on days like today
Efap is wonderful. Thank you from the heart. Also. Hi rags and bag on head man
Hello
Hello hello
Hear it vibrations don't exist. No, not at all. It's not at all what I said
The vibrations exist even if there's no one to hear them because vibrations are a physical thing that exists
For instance there would for instance there would be no color in the universe if there were no brains that
Perceive it
Because brain because colors don't exist. They're only interpretations by brains or other
You know other essential
something to
Interpret the light bouncing off of things. It's like a
If like if all sentient life if all brains if all thinking entities were removed from the cosmos
Would vibrations exist? Absolutely they would even if there wasn't any one around to hear them
It wouldn't matter because vibrations are a physical thing
They're vibrations in the air and stuff like that. They're not just sounds like they're not conceptual
All right, and uh, yeah, it was very very
Fine, uh super chat and I hope that uh, this was this was
Efap is working out in terms of an entertainment source for you today in both entertaining and informative
Super chat sections can get strange with what we talk about, you know
Just literally adjacent super chats can be a philosophical discussion or um, you know length of dildo like this this it's complicated
You never know
You never never forget the critical wang question. Really that's gonna stick with me. Yeah
These are the things that make you think I really like the scene where arthur puts his mum to bed and sat down
And watch the entirety of birth for nation with the audience
You know, I like that one came up before
Uh, it looks like yeah, it did there's more than one person that saw that vision of the movie. So
Yeah
Uh colors exist based on the wavelength of light not interpretation
You know our brain interprets the wavelengths of light
Is there like, um a video you you lit this from or something because I've I've not explored that at all
Like yeah, it's like the like it's it's the the wavelengths are not the color
Like the wavelengths like we interpret the wave our brain interprets the wavelengths
as the color
Now there are some colors that in like there's no um like magenta
There's there's no wavelength that corresponds to magenta to that particular color that's that is entirely a a construct of our brain
Um, either way I decided while we were while we were discussing different things to collect
Um a selection of memes that are more relevant to this episode. There's only one two three
12 this won't take long and there's some uh pretty neat ones
So, uh, but but that is the end of the super chat somewhere almost at the end of the stream
so, um
on the topic of dc
villains
Apparently this is cod piece. He's a dc villain who can shoot laser beams from his crotch
Oh wow, that's uh, how does he aim it?
How does he aim it in any direction other how what if he needs to shoot something like above him or at an angle?
You gotta commit to this
He has to contort himself into like a piece of siege engineering equipment you gotta like aim in any direction that isn't forward-ish
Like when when those when those things happen where he's forced to do stuff like that, he's just got to go for it
He's gonna nail it
Give me tough. Yeah, and he's so good at it. He doesn't even need to use his hands. Jesus. Yep
It's like
Like I what is cod pieces origin story that led into this
Apparently they're naming burgers after the dawn now i'm cool with that
It's just interesting that's all someone spotted this okay, so they named so the burger is the double don
But they missed the opportunity to call it the foot long chili don
Yeah, I know
Put down chili don
Funny taxi driver remake four out of ten jokers go say the other movie not good
She's got rags like the raving
This is attached to saying they they're going for the uh molar cosplay for halloween and
Yeah, I think that's that's fair. I actually
I didn't even know they did sell gas mask masks as a halloween thing, but you know, yeah
You could if you want gas mask i've got like four different kinds they're super cheap you old russian and uh,
everything from gp5s to
All sorts of destinations, but they're they're really cheap. You can get old german ones and old russian ones
But yeah, i was in a craning ones, you know, like how they'll have maybe a michael myers mask or cheap or ghost or whatever
I was I didn't know they actually would have like gas mask is a halloweeny thing. I didn't really realize that
It's prop. What's weird is that it's probably cheaper to buy an actual gas mask than it is to buy a
a prop from a store
Yeah, someone tried to set up just buy an actual gas mask. Yeah, they're actually legit really cheap
What if quinn ataratito maids do a little
I
Mean, i must say I would watch it. Looks like
Gore, let's do a little it's interesting. Let's see where they go with it. Mm
Watch them. Just blast the f-bombs all over the place the n-word everything
Kills three, which white guys an abusive white mother kills rich white talk show host joker has a problem with black women
All right, i'm not political tyc
See
So again about the dc village that would be condiment king condiment king. Oh my god
I would I i'm just going to be honest when a condiment king. I would I would relish the chance to watch a movie about him
Oh
got him
This is a I guess a proof of concept for the um the long man body pillow
Oh my that is long. Oh, wow. Remember that draw. Wow
I do
I like your little feet at the bottom. Yeah
This is uh
That that gray blobby thing like they just talk in bumbles and they just great blobs
You can't be offended
This is uh, I guess a nice little strip of gray blobs with gray probs
Gray blobs with gray probs you could probably i'm sure someone could get offended by something in there in some way
Dude, look at how aggressive that left one stance is. Yep. He is really encroaching on that one on the right
I think he's invading his personal space
Yeah, he seems to be deposing. That's that's probably offensive
Gotta be
This is uh
the hard questions
Of a bayouin drawing a bayouin original
Oh, no
I guess uh, this is rags figuring out exactly what we're going to be doing for the uh
The 24 hour special you have a special brain the chat needs
Oh, i'm measuring the rhinos taint. Oh my god, it's important
It's important even the the rhino may seem kind of annoyed but he knows it's for science too
He's putting up that he knows what it's good for it's a fucking big ass taint. Yep
It's true how big is so because if you have a
I guess you would have to have external testicles. So you can't have like you can't measure whales taint
right, so
What let me google it what animal has the biggest
You might want to go I was reading I was reading about the color thing because it's it's like I find it legit fascinating
the fact that
color doesn't exist get over it, um, but
Let me do what animal has the longest taint
Uh, it says it says elephants have the longest gestation period of all mammals not what I asked google though
Google's try to avoid the question. Here we go reddit no hashtag no who is uh, or not hashtag r slash no stupid questions
Which animal has the largest taint?
um
Apparently the official name for taint, uh in biology is called the anogenital the anogenital distance. Uh-huh
Oh, there's uh
Hmm
Hmm
Anogenital distance. Well that leads me to the wikipedia page. Uh, whoa, what an interesting picture. Uh
Well, uh, there's a there's a so I just say taint has a wikipedia page, of course
So in humans and other animals there have been extensive studies of oh have their extent. Okay. All right
There's whole departments for this. I mean you got sometimes you gotta know you got to get that answer
It's for science. Come on
It's it's funny
So it's so clinical is the distance from the midpoint of the anus to the genitalia the underside of the scrotum or the vagina
It is considered medically significant. Apparently, it's like a big thing
Some guy's job is to like be very careful check yourself on taint cancer
I'm a doctor that specializes in anogenital distance
I mean, you know plastic surgery. Do you feel your taint is too long too short?
You know move things around down there. We'll move your butt hole up a bit. You know, you need it
Increase that distance. Yeah
Get to get some social status going. I think you guys will love this one as well
You
Would you like to join us in watching al roberto's el roberto's joker reviewed aspo sure
Are you fine
I like the the drawing of uh weekend warriors just like the way he draws it's actually a thing that he that's one of his
things. Yeah
Sorry, i'm appreciating this the drawing. I like it a lot
I love the way they've drawn ball as well
I'm glad he was able to draw me measuring a taint while also having it be safe for work. So that's good
Yeah, beowyn's drawing is amazing as well. Let's see
the
I love it. I love it all. Um
Duke
Okay
It's so funny seeing all these gay soy reviewers on twitter rushing to praise knives out and it's trumpian politics
Whatever the f that means to get people to stop talking about joker's oscar chances
Uh is did knives out come out or is it coming out like I
I guess I got confused about that. I thought it had like come and gone
But I still see people talking about stuff to do with it
knives out release
29th of november. Oh, it's not even like close another month and a half. Okay
Bags are you are you still looking?
Yeah, I I did take a look I instead of taint I used anogenital distance in the google search and
I um, what I might have to do is I might have to get top 10 contenders and then just go through each one and see
and measure yourself, you know
Well, I mean
lacking a live specimen
Probably as long as they have a uh, what did you say?
Was it a can a soda can for like reference each of these pictures?
Yeah, it's like I don't I don't know like would a horse or a giraffe have a longer taint
It's like I don't know because one is they just they're just sort of built differently
Who knows?
And so I'd have to go and find out and measure it and it's like oh
What about rhinoceros eyes as is or hippopotamus. This is I don't know. I don't fucking know. I'm thinking about this shit
You're the one who asked it wasn't me. I didn't start this shit room
Uh bu kolkki
Also, the deepfake would make martha and thomas wayne robert deniro as well. Bruce is optional
I mean i'm okay with it
I i'm kind of fine with bruce wayne being bruce wayne except for the end when he's standing over his dead parents
And now he's robert deniro. Yeah, and then he gets killed
Yeah, and then he just just like this the little the metal stairway on the side of the building just falls over on him
Yeah, we can do the the other suggestion in the in the super chat, which was I think a safe falls on him
Just a big safe cartoon like safe like an anvil maybe
uh
No, martin so says he is wrong comic book movies are cinema cut to shot of condiment king
I don't think condiment king isn't any of the superhero movies yet. But uh, yeah, I don't know if we have uh,
I don't know if we have a um
Film adaptation of condiment king's story. Couldn't it be I feel it is one that should be told
Imagine you're like you paid top philips all the money he wanted for it
You were like, I want you to do a serious adaptation of condiment king the one that's sympathetic
Explains all of his motivations, but his whole thing has to be that he sprays condiments on people
Yeah, to be fair. I feel like I feel like because
Condiment king has existed for so long without a movie adaptation
Then that's gonna leave us with a lot to catch up on
He's in lego patman
Yeah, that makes sense
uh
Why does rags really no one really really that nothing mauler?
I mean, is it really on me? Is it really on me as opposed to chat or dust bullshit? Do I have to be the one?
Oh, I thought i'd get some kind of commentary for that I thought I'd get some
Something is that how that works? I feel like that was really good. Well, i'm sorry. Wait, I i'm
I just got lost in the middle of everything. So what am I supposed to comment on?
I
I said
That this is great. All right. I said
Condiment king has been around so long
Without a movie adaptation that we're going to have a lot to catch up on
Ah, okay. Yeah, so
See that was that was my reaction
That that was that was also i'd like to note that condiment king does
Does have like weapons so he can commit assault
All right
Yeah
It's good that it's good that the condiment king has been able he he was able, you know
He that he's mustered the strength to use his weapons for the forces of good. I think that's very
Important
Um, you're doing we're gonna really need to catch up to that one's rankings here. No, I already already used to catch up
fuck
He's pepper. He like he peppered something or his crimes were peppered alova gotham
And he doesn't and he doesn't have any kids because he always wears a condom
I don't
Stop me. So, um
Oh, man, you are the mayor of cringe town
Mike tester said what does rags look bloated in meme also high rags and bow? Hello
Well, that's just that's just what bayouin does like it one of his most popular ones is making a fat wolf eating pizza
True true
How much pizza has rags had apparently?
One slice so far. I don't know. I can't tell it's
Guess he's getting there
I don't know if you guys saw this earlier
But you should watch the night watchman one of the funniest bad movies i've seen in a long time
Uh, we did we did see that I will
I guess i'll put it in my i've got a big file for like all potential efap movies
So i'll throw it in there. We may get to it one day. Perhaps it could be fun. I met
I met condiment king once at a at a bar and he started a hit on me
Really tried to butter me up
Oh
These aren't gonna end are they
These are going to the next temperature. I'm sure that brings us to the end of the episode
How wonderful we we've been through?
Uh three wonderful takes on the joker review movies. We're gonna we're gonna do more in future probably
Gonna collect up the right ones and have the right guests all that fun stuff
Um, thank you all so much for watching and to all the guests including but not limited to you you both here today rags
And desk bullshit a wonderful full thing. I
I would actually I before we leave I actually I was gonna say this for another time
But I think it's an interesting story to tell it's very very strange
all right, so
Everyone if you've made it this far you get a you get a special story, right?
This is a me story
That's all good stories are
so
yesterday
I uh had a little shin dig to go to
They called me and said hey, you know go ahead go and grab some beers and stuff and bring them on over like, all right
so
I
Left my apartment
And you know locked up did all that stuff walked outside to the parking lot
And I could not find my car. I couldn't find it
That's odd, but you know that of course at first
Didn't think anything out of it
I drive a I drive a Mazda speed Miata an mx5 little car
So a lot of times if it's behind another car, you don't see it at first
So I move up and down the parking lot and i'm looking for it and I can't find it
Cannot find my car and this point I get very very worried. Remember this is this was yesterday. It was just yesterday
I was very tempted to tell you uh mauler yesterday
Couldn't find my car. So I get really worried at this point. I'm like legit thinking my car is stolen
So what I do is I call my uh
Mom and dad because I thought maybe my car is at their house
because maybe
We went to go see a movie or something that I don't recall at the moment and I left my car over there when we went out
Or something. I don't know. They just make sure my car wasn't over there. Well, they were busy didn't get a call
It really really worried. I legit cannot find my car
um, so I walk all
Over the parking lot all around because it's like a big circle around the apartments
And i'm looking around for it getting really really worried because as far as i'm concerned my car has been stolen
I go all the way to the opposite end of my apartment complex
And I see my car
Sitting in a parking spot backed up
just parked normally
And I am just flabbergasted. It's very unique car because it's got a dent on part of the side. It is my car
No clue how it got there. I walk up to the car
Passengers doors locked my driver door is unlocked
I go inside of it. I look around nothing's been taken. Nothing's been tampered with nothing's been shuffled around with
I I look in the trunk. Nothing's been taken
I open the hood to see if it's been messed with nothing's been messed with
Where the mirrors change and no no, man
Like I I sat down in the car and it was like uh, like it was made for me
And I for the life of me like I am like this point. I am both
equal parts relieved as I am
Really really just I have no idea. My car was parked it at the other side of my apartment complex
Backed in place and I have no idea. Wow. It's how it's like that. And so i'm thinking so
Did I get so
Turned up one night
That I drove home safely apparently in some crazy stupor that I can't remember
backed into a parking space
And then walked all the way across the apartment complex, which is fairly large to get to my
house
And then just didn't even think about it
Or what else have did someone was just some sort of a weird prank. Did someone
Somehow tow my car and find a way to back it into a parking spot against a the end of the parking lot
I I have no idea
and
I still don't know what happened. I still have no clue. I
I asked a few people if they noticed the car if it had been there
They say they didn't notice anyone putting it there
And they they said they didn't really recognize the car all that much because I never ever park over there because the other side of the complex
very
Very strange. I know it spooked over
And i'm not and i'm not uh
I'm not making up any details here trying to make this like a crazy story
This is a weird one, man
It's really I don't feel worried because it doesn't seem to be malicious
And I don't know if maybe it was me and I just for some freaking reason cannot remember parking all the way over there
but
Because it's like a multiple minute walk. It would be for me to cross all the way around
It's just it's weird
That's that's my that's my creepy
october
skellington
story
For efap at the end
Right now you said it was backed up. Do you normally not back up your car?
No, normally I just pull straight in
right
It's it's it's a little car. It's very very maneuverable. So it's easy to just pull out and go
Very very strong. I have no idea and I told my parents, you know
because they called me asking what I wanted and so I called back and I told them the story and
I I got nothing. I got nothing. No clue
Right
So I don't know. I don't know
It's weird. Maybe i'm crazy. Maybe i'm crazy. Maybe i'm a crazy person and
I don't remember randomly parking on the opposite end of my complex, which is essentially like
It's long way away and then
Not thinking it's odd that I have to walk so far to get to my place
Something's going on. You know, I think so. Wait a further a wait further bulletins as events warrant. But now what I
Think
Sorry, I have to keep interrupting you there
Does your complex have like a tow driver who usually comes in at night and like tows away any vehicles that are
unaccounted for or anything?
Um, no, I i've never
Never had that issue. Why would he tow?
All from its parking spot into just a different parking spot
Yeah, because I haven't changed license plates since I since I moved into this new place. I haven't changed anything like that
It's all there
Yeah, because I was thinking maybe they accidentally they they towed you by mistake
And then rather than tell you anything about it
They was going to put your back but your old spot was taken so they just put you anywhere they could find and then left
Maybe maybe that's a thing because if they were going to park they would probably park you in backwards, right?
They'd tow you park you in backwards. I yeah
Well, I well, here's the thing if I parked in front ways to my spot
And they towed it they would have to tow it from behind
And if they towed it from behind then I would have been loaded up into the truck or towed
Facing the opposite way of the tow truck
Huh driver door was unlocked
Yeah, I a lot of times I just don't lock it. There's nothing in there to take
So I a lot of times I just don't even think about locking it and also it's a manual transmission. It's a six speed
So that's its own anti-theft deterrent device right there
But I I'd say I i'm like legit baffled I have no idea and it's kind of it doesn't like worry me
But it's really strange. You just said anti-theft deterrent
The tears anti-themes
It's a it's a it's a it's a thief be gone device
um
Yeah, spooky story. There's a couple explanations that are possible but all seem so unlikely don't they?
I'm liking the tow truck driver one. So I guess we'll see maybe
That's my spooky. That's my spooky story. Um
Google the pic of arthur looking sad in the bus and happy in the cop car
Don't want to give twitter my phone. No, but might make an account to tweet it at you
Uh is i'm assuming there's a lot of similarities or at least um
Symmetricality to it in terms of an inverse, but yeah
Um, maybe same thing happened to me a year ago
And I couldn't find my car on my campus went all around town found it in a lot
No memory of when I left it there
Yeah
Um
Hey rags, if condiment king were to play hard to get would you have to catch up to him?
Catch up him. We already did these. Yeah, come to me
Yeah, we did we I I did it and that's what got this whole thing started. Are you in condiment king went on a nice date?
Would you relish it?
I would I already did the relish one but it's fair enough. I I might I might all right and with that
Let us put this to an end. Thank you very much to all of the guests that came on the the
Incredibly generous onion the wonderful fan creations
Yes to reassure the memes are being collected. Um, uh, i've got a hell of a lot
We're gonna find a space for them. We will it's gonna happen. Um, condiment king doesn't really like this time of year. It gets too chilly
Oh
This is why I have to hurry now you have to get out before it's
But yes, thank you all for watching and you'll see you next sunday more than likely around about the same time
Have a good week
Good night
Good night
Wow rags didn't say nothing that's fucked up. Yeah, man. I think i've said enough
And that's me go ahead on a banger this is rag saying that rags is set enough
