Oh, let me go to or let me go to Mahler's channel.
Oh, is that what we're doing?
Um, I was probably.
So, yeah, we is our lives is.
We is our lives is.
Mm hmm.
Let's see to know everything wrong with Avengers Infinity War with sin sins.
That is that is it.
Oh, blood for the EFAP gods.
I don't know what you mean.
I don't know what that is.
What are you saying that for?
There's nothing to do with anything, right?
So what's wrong with you?
One watching now, it must be me.
No, it's Cunder Thunt.
Oh, there's two.
Hello, Cunder Thunt.
You're the first.
Um, but yes, hello.
Because because Cunder Thunt is the first person in the chat,
he gets to make a special.
There's a special message.
He gets to he he says a comment and will say it out loud on stream
to the 21 people watching.
Hello, all my N words.
Oh, looks like you.
You've been given a great power, Cunder Thunt.
Don't don't.
Oh, Nate, that's true, that's true.
You always show your appreciation by sending a super chat.
Bitch, I am in the I did that last time.
I spent two dollars to say hi, Rags.
Guys, we're trying to.
Guys, we're trying to convince the world that we aren't racist.
Chat, you're not you're not helping us right now.
There's King Edward.
Dark King Edward is always the he's always a fun one.
Mostly because I have to like get through his full name
before I can even find what he said in the chat.
Long Shanks, the first hammer of the Scots, Lord of Wales, King of England, exactly.
Which is the position to have, by the way, his name is almost as long
as Daenerys Targaryen's, like, list of titles.
I love Davos in response.
So he goes, this is John.
This is John Snow.
Yeah, King in the North.
About the only line I liked in that whole season.
There are there's more than just that.
That's good. It's just so much bad.
Sure. I like I liked the John and
Beric Dondarian talk.
That was like the that was the only good part of episode seven.
The conversation that Jamie and Elena have to.
Oh, yeah, that one was good.
He's a viper. Yes. Hello.
Let's see. What have we got for the fun little updates?
We got 31 funny kittens.
That's not good.
Oh, that's a good one.
Look at him. Oh.
Oh, right. I should probably wait.
Yeah, usually. Oh, look, he's kissing.
Oh, look at that. He's so cute.
The kitten is doing a blep.
Look at him. Oh, oh, look at him.
Just so. Oh, he tried to.
Oh, that's violent.
That's the hate speech.
He's he's bathing.
Oh, that's nudity. Don't play with all.
Oh, this is like this is encouraging tribalism.
It's just this is WWE kittens.
This is a man.
Yeah. Oh, oh, it's a little black one.
You see what? What?
Why would you?
It's just the weird little it gets to me.
It is. There's nothing wrong with being little.
There is something wrong with being a black cat.
All right. The fat covers are bad luck.
No more. No more kittens.
What do you see?
You see, everyone, you asked us not to do the last Jedi.
So now we're reviewing kittens.
We're reviewing kittens.
Yep. Now go back.
I think I think this I think the show needs more last year,
like based episodes.
Oh, is this going to get off screen a bit?
God damn it, it is off screen a bit.
Well, the anniversary of the last Jedi were in so much time.
Someone said that those were alt right kittens.
They are, except for the little black one.
He's a BLM kitten.
Well, actually, nowadays, I mean, if if I can be
if I can be alt right and if Ian Miles Chong can be alt right
and a Sargon can be alt right.
He's watching me as well, by the way.
I think he'll be all right all the time.
Any everybody can be alt right.
So being black is no excuse anymore.
It's not a get out of jail free card anymore.
Well, I'm just going to say that I don't think I've ever been called alt right.
Yeah. Oh, you will.
Oh, you will.
I'm pretty sure just appearing here is going to do it.
I stay away from talking about politics most of the time.
You're too egalitarian to not be called alt right.
I don't think I have any controversial opinions, really.
Oh, I used to think that, too.
You know, there's no such thing as not having that.
It's impossible.
You thought you used to be pure.
Oh, no. Just controversial opinion.
You are not free.
In film is OK.
Just wait until just just wait until destiny invites you to a debate.
Then you'll be exposed.
Yeah.
What may as well consider and you just we've just mentioned that
rags. Do you want to do you want to read?
Oh, fuck. Let's go in.
You could start menu.
You drag it across.
Oh, this is the the the gentleman from Reddit.
This is about a fat gentleman.
So this is how, you know, you've you've struck it big.
If some Randy on Reddit talks about you,
I don't go to the Reddit myself.
OK, I have a subreddit.
Cinema Sinsins has a subreddit.
I'm sure this is much more positive than the one that came from.
Yeah, he has the word sin twice in his name.
It has to be to negative positive.
That's true.
And to be to be fair, sins backwards is sniss.
That is true.
Yeah, it's true. Yeah, that sounds so evil.
This comment from Reddit is as of us.
It's like, let me get a beer.
They'll be right back.
I guess I was just going to say, by the way, apparently this is some news
that came out that T.L.J.'s script was finished before TFA script was.
Yeah, I heard about that.
What? How is that the thing?
Well, I don't I'm not 100% sure it's come from someone who worked with it
and someone who's actually in favor of T.L.J.
But I don't know how would that be in favor of T.L.J.
and think this is this is that's true.
I'm not I'm not serious.
It's OK to like The Last Jedi.
So no, it's not you.
It's. But yeah, no, I thought it was interesting.
So the comment says.
They are three YouTubers who are known for making three to seven hour
long streams attacking people who both enjoy and defend the The Last Jedi movie.
Triggered snowflakes.
For instance, I remember hearing that they made a six hour stream
attacking a video that was responding to rags.
Quite terrible results.
I hate everything's video on how certain reactions,
i.e., the rampant negativity towards the movie and actors were unwarranted
and the people who made them should be ashamed of themselves.
Note that IHE's video was not aimed at attacking or criticizing
people who hated the movie and flaws since he holds some of the same opinions.
They and their followers are known for having an arrogant tendency
to silence opposing views on the matter by claiming that they have addressed
every possible argument against them and call them objectively wrong.
Hence the numerous comments saying that.
Of course, it follows logically.
They will search every video and claim that a five to six hour long video series
by Mahler, the one without the furry.
Oh, it's only a matter of time.
Is the only video one should watch about The Last Jedi and why they say it is bad.
However, the biggest claim that they make
is that all people who like the movie attach to the Star Wars brand
and that they can't come to dislike it because of that irony.
Politically, to lean heavily towards the alt right.
You're you're next.
And since no, no,
just by talking to people who have already been accused of being right,
I will soon be accused by someone.
Yeah. Hey, chat. Hey, chat.
Make sure post F, if you think that Simpsons is alt right.
Cinema Simpsons, you have been called alt right.
You just don't know it.
I know now that someone is going to meme it
and now someone's going to read it and someone's going to believe it.
Don't worry.
People don't really believe that we are like five people and
one of them has crazy things.
The whole chat's typing F, so it's true.
You are all right.
That last sentence. Oh, right.
Just just get that one.
OK, we're almost there.
Almost there.
If you've heard about the complaints that the actors had been harassed
constantly, their views were heavily connected to that.
What does that mean?
It means that because we have negative opinions about the movie,
that we are directly connected with the people who said terrible things
to the actors and actresses, even though we explicitly state over and over
that you should not attack the actors and actresses
for the character that they are portraying.
Because that would be retarded.
It's just I just yeah, like the way they phrase this whole thing,
it's it's like they're reporting it.
It's like this is what I have heard and seen.
I'm completely objective here.
This is just how it goes.
You know, like they just subjected the bit about how we silence opposing views.
It's like, how could you ever come to that conclusion with what we do?
I love that part because we literally we like I've been on once before.
You generally, generally will show the video you're talking about,
you know, as a general rule.
Well, that's where we fuck up, isn't it?
Yeah, man, we.
Nobody would know we silence criticism so much that we brought on
since since twice after, you know, destroying his video.
How dare you, Wolf?
Oh, yeah, technically, I have been on twice before.
We still get rid of him at the same capacity.
Oh, yes, he was more of a subject.
And then a but what's the opposite of subject?
You're an attacker now.
I did bring up Rhino Milk both times, though.
You're a silencing attacker alt writer.
That's what you are now.
But yeah, like the org.
That's fun. You know,
you get a lot of these crazy things.
That is a very strange.
I a part of me.
I don't think this person has ever actually watched an episode of the FAP.
I mean, how can they?
They're like five hours long.
No one can watch this shit.
That is fair enough.
What was that one?
It happened on Twitter today.
I think I sent Wolf and Rags it.
I see I can find it.
Oh, the guy who called you.
All right, because you don't like Black Panther.
Give me give me.
Why is someone?
Someone had just liked it recently.
I could find it.
Why don't you just go to the hard conversation where you posted it?
There are so many ways to find it faster.
I was just hoping that all of a sudden my mouse sensitivity going vertically
way faster than horizontally.
And I have no idea why that happened.
Well, how's the mouse do you got?
It's a it's a Logitech G600.
I've never had this happen before, but it just now happened.
We got the same mouse.
Well, yeah, it's fucking amazing.
I have no idea why it's doing this.
So you accidentally click one of the buttons on the on the left side.
They're all bound to regular keyboard buttons.
Interesting. That's very, very strange.
So there's a conversation between people on Twitter about whether or not I am
like, uh, politically in line with the rights, even though they start out
talking about whether or not I like the L.J.
So it's just weird.
But, uh, the conversation is it follows mauler.
It makes complete sense, of course.
But, uh, this guy completes the conversation with blocking me
and the person who's talking to one of the last things he says is sure.
And the fact that he hates movies with minority or female protagonists
and like likes a movie whose main character is a sympathetic
dude advocating for genocide for the greater good is totally not influenced
by anything other than logic and facts.
Praise Ben Shapiro.
It's like, wait, what?
I asked Ben Shapiro who regularly advocates for genocide.
So because I criticize T.L.J.
and Black Panther, I hate any film with women or black people.
Well, minorities, he said.
Anything that any race that's a minority.
I apparently told people are a minority.
Yeah, actually, Thanos is the protagonist of Infinity War.
And he's a minority.
How many people people are there in the universe?
Exactly.
Yeah. How many purple friends do you have?
My friend is purple.
Yeah, I'm not racist.
My friend is purple.
I once dated a purple.
Someone in the chat said the alt right.
Sponsored by Logitech.
Sponsored by Mula and the FAP crew.
Yeah, there's a couple of people who have sent me it.
So I figure I'll mention it.
There's a video.
I think it's called something like Bad Media Criticism.
And the reason it apparently came to me, among other things,
was the Eric Taxon said like those.
You couldn't talk about Baller on this, because if you did,
it would take you like an hour or whatever else.
And I was just like, it's funny because I agreed with a lot of points.
Not like the entire thing.
But the kind of thing that's undeniable where she says like,
when people get facts wrong, it's like who's going to disagree with that?
Nobody likes it when someone gets facts wrong.
But we could totally watch that video on eFap some time.
But Eric moved on to Twitter.
That was as I said, that he's apparently working on a video about me specifically.
And the topic of the discussion is how I avoid criticism.
So he knows we like do these like.
I think we'll consider it.
He referenced the FAP at the Wolf video.
He must know that this exists.
So it's probably he doesn't watch him.
Like like people can come on whenever they want.
Like every person we've covered has been invited on like rags.
If someone had a gun to every single person you ever cared about,
and they said make a good argument for how the people on eFap avoid criticism,
having watched all the episodes, what kind of argument would you make?
Let me see.
Because personally, I'd go for something like they try their best to
probably break up the videos to the point where
you can criticize each like sentence or something.
Yeah, but that wouldn't be avoiding criticism.
That would just be the way that we criticize.
Well, no, this is what I mean.
I don't think you can make a good argument.
But what's the best you could come up with?
Because that's obviously what he's going to do or try.
I mean, because he's like saying that we if he just says we avoid criticism,
that's not going to work.
It's just funny how the guy who disables ratings on his videos
is the one accusing you of avoiding criticism.
Also, the guy who refuses to talk to me because I'm too toxic
and then continues to make videos that relate to me.
Cool. I completely agree with the guy who commented about it
a few episodes ago where he said the only reason he wants to talk to me
is because I'm easier to anger.
So he would just pull a destiny on me to try and make himself look better
without making any actual good arguments.
Well, this is the thing like me and Rags.
I don't see how he could possibly consider us.
I don't even know how you consider us toxic.
I don't know how you get to that point.
I'm really a nice guy.
You have to tell people that because it's apparently just not true.
That sounds exactly the kind of thing a bad guy would say.
Yeah, you wouldn't have to tell people you're a good guy.
That's how they get you.
So, yeah, we're we're really nice people.
I said you're welcome to come on.
He's just never going to do it.
I imagine he'll address it in his video.
But yeah, he said it's currently at seven thousand words
and he's still going on it.
So this might be a TRO situation where we have to have like
eight hours of fapping or whatever.
This video comes out.
Well, you've already done that two weeks in a row.
Criticism. But like in your videos,
you will even start off by saying based off of what I have heard
about the last episodes, I'm changing this
and I'm amending that and I'm clarifying this.
Yeah, that's how I avoid criticism.
I don't I really am.
I mean, I'm super confused.
That's not going to end well for him.
I warrant, but he is welcome to give it his best shot.
Some people in my Discord where I can use doing it to try and
because with Wolf's the video we did on Wolf had a decent amount of views
and people are expecting a small just to try and bank on criticism of me
because it's it's something that apparently gets views,
which is bizarre to fucking hear because.
It's like I'm just like I was fucking I had like two thousand subscribers
a year ago, like what now?
It's a good it's a thing to get views to make videos on me.
That doesn't make sense to me, but I can tell you that it is.
I have had, you know, a little bit of experience with that.
Well, whatever you mean.
He I just but like, is it worth it for him to do that?
We're also getting all of the crap he's going to get for it.
I don't know. He doesn't need to deal with any of the crap.
He already has criticism and hides the likes.
So well, either way, if it gets dislikes,
then it's just brigading by trolls or 4chan or whatever.
So whatever he said, I don't know.
I asked if you'll do a video on rags as well, just, you know, to complete the three.
And he said rags isn't worth mentioning.
Yeah, OK. So it's weird, though.
You'd think I'd be the easiest to go after because pretty much all of my content
is off the cuff because I don't script or anything.
Not to mention people have gone after you before.
Yeah, Mueller haven't had a whole lot of people go after us.
That's true. Maybe they know it doesn't go well.
Well, I mean, it's good.
He's afraid that you're going to do what you did to Jared Genesis.
He had a conversation on Twitter about like all the biggest problems with my videos.
And one of them was that he says it takes me too long to make a point
that apparently I do have some good points, but I've got too much fluff in them.
And it would be much better if I reduced my videos by like a third.
I think he said.
And I was just like, but that's not a lot of content.
But I was just like, that's not even that bad.
Is that worth making a video over?
You've talked about this before.
If people's big criticism of you is that your videos are too long.
Like you're pretty much set.
You're good to go.
Yeah, it's not the worst of criticisms.
It's like, oh, yeah, it's not like you're lying.
Are you taking things out of context?
Are you being dishonest?
Or you you don't have enough understanding of a source material
or or we can't understand you or things like that.
Videos too long.
Hey, it's pretty good.
You know, pretty good.
Yeah, I just you know, it'll be interesting to have
possibly since and possibly even TRO, whoever eventually cover that video
to bring one of them on, especially with Wolf to just because it's living proof
that the whole doesn't listen to criticism thing just doesn't necessarily apply.
I mean, it would be really awkward if there was a tweet out there
that said, you know, in order to talk about your video on how we don't take
criticism, you're welcome to join you or welcome to join us on a livestream
to discuss it with us in person like that would be kind of awkward
to have that exist as a thing out there.
You know, I mean, I'm curious if he knows about the TRO podcast
because that's us, you know, breaking down the criticism that was addressed to us
responding to it and then having the person, the author respond back.
Like it doesn't get much more clear than that, but I was thinking
like it goes both ways, too, because we've had I mean, I know this is
this is just me and Wolf's word, but we we spoke to Wyatt everything.
We addressed all of his criticisms that he fucking retracted.
I dare say most of them.
I can't remember what all of them were, but coach.
And then on the other on the other end of the scale, there was a YouTube
with I think something like 2000 subscribers who made a video
that addressed me and a couple of other people in terms of like toxic TLJ hate.
And the section on me involved the whole like objectivity thing.
He was just like, you know, all the standard stuff you've heard about me.
And so I just put a comment saying, like, here's Discord link.
I'll talk to you about it if you want, because he actually said
he would in the video, and I did.
And we had a conversation for about, I want to say like two hours, I think.
That's a tweet you put out after it.
I'll put it in the in the chat as well.
Nice, nice dude.
And I'll be interested to see what he puts out in future.
You know, everybody ever does this stuff.
But the like he liked my tweet about
not being able to take criticism, apparently for very tax.
And I'm just like, there's too many people that this has happened with
the firm to make a strong argument.
But, you know, we'll just have to see what he says by the time he makes it.
You know, like a lot of people are really, really
they're kind of invested in the idea that their only real tactic against us
a lot of the times is just to try and convince people that we're something we're not.
Um, well, it's because they don't have any valid criticisms of anything we do.
So they have to rely on saying they're all right.
Yeah, if you guys were legitimately trying to criticize what we do,
I think the biggest argument I would make is that we'll miss stuff
or we'll we'll make a point look like something else because we take it too early.
But if we find that's the case, we'll usually correct the record.
So then moments later, we catch it.
And so my conclusion would be they're not perfect.
But then again, is there a show that does what we're doing that is perfect?
Like, it's pretty tough to get everything perfect. I mean,
we try and we try to have fun, too, obviously.
But, uh, yeah, well, you know, criticism is a serious business.
This is a no fun zone.
Oh, yeah. So that's another thing I should probably mention.
We did say we wouldn't cover cinema sins after the Predator one.
But like I saw this one, he just gets so much wrong.
It's insane.
But on top of that, it's the fact that I mean,
we've never been able to talk about Infinity War, I don't think so.
I don't think so. No. Well, we had that one video.
Oh, movies with Mikey, wasn't it?
Yeah, that was like beating, beating your
likes like domestic violence and stuff.
Well, it was it was his argument was the film justifies abuse as love.
Yes, written by the same guy who wrote Aliens, Colonial Marines.
So, you know, I still I don't I have no idea what the story line is for that.
OK, Mueller, Chet, you say yes.
If you want me and Mueller to do a stream where the two of us play co-op colonial.
Why would they say no?
Well, exactly. You can.
I'll play.
All right, we can.
I can play the shitty game twice.
We're going to call it.
We're going to call it.
Actually, how many people can play Colonial Marines at once?
Maybe it is like four people.
I. Oh, my gosh.
We could be like a trio.
We could be a squad.
And since since can be there and we'll be like in plays the alien squad.
Yeah, let me see.
Splits down to that.
Wow, it's got a six out of 10.
That's that's way too high.
People will clap at anything.
Be I was.
I can't tell how many people can go on it.
It might be four people, though.
Movies with Mike was sort of addressing a concept while this is like
him pointing out plot and character errors or whatever.
So much is a breakdown.
And hey, we were actually going to have since and on again at some point.
And I figure this is much more suitable.
You know, I try and execute the right content for the guest.
It doesn't always work.
The way I do it usually is just, are you OK with this?
And then they're like, yes.
And so that works out.
But this just seems right, you know.
And for those people asking, like, you know, when when is X guest going to come on?
It's like seriously, I am trying to get all the people who've been requested on.
It's just it's tough to get the right videos.
Is, you know, like like like logic, for example, he was an awesome guest.
It's just that he didn't have huge amounts to say on The Last Jedi
because he's not that invested in it.
We'd rather get that.
Sorry. No, I know. Right.
I invested in the last show.
Well, he's got a cameo in my in my TFA series.
So, you know, he likes he likes Star Wars enough.
It's just, yeah, we try and get it get it quite right.
But we get an apology.
He he's he's invested in Star Wars.
And we talked to him a little bit on logic stream.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
I mean, it was dependant that didn't go very well.
Well, I think it got sorted out.
It was that was a weird conversation
because we didn't realize we were dealing with somebody
because like he accused us of being like, rapidly hatredy of it. Right.
I guess he wasn't used to it. Yeah.
Yeah, which is fine. We explained it.
But he's a good guy.
Yeah, it kind of started off weird when we were all like,
oh, the last Jedi sucks.
And then like 20 minutes later, I liked it.
And he's like, yeah, I worked on the set of the prequels.
When I do my prequel days, I'm totally going to talk to him.
That'd be interesting.
Oh, yeah. I like the prequels are terrible, but I love them.
But yeah, by the way, because of how terrible our structure is,
by the way, that that's yeah.
So our guest today is since since. Hello.
Hi. Yeah.
But you might have noticed this icon.
Yeah, the only one who doesn't have a Christmas icon.
How dare you?
You mean Christmas icon?
I'm wearing this.
It actually doesn't show up for me either.
But I see it on the oh, now I see it. OK.
I like it. I like it.
You're not perpetuating the war against Christmas. That's good.
It's a war rhino.
It's a war for Christmas.
Sean Hannity would be proud.
War for something.
The rhinos were fighting for Christmas against Black Panther.
I'm going to go with you guys.
I it's a war against Christmas by the Kwanza Knights.
The last thing is a lot of people want us to check out
Linkara doing a comic review on.
I think it's TFA and he has this like crazy rant against TLJ hatred.
Yeah. Do you guys know Linkara at all?
No, no.
So he's from the Channel Awesome Days.
He's a comic book reviewer.
And I think there's very few of them, or at least there certainly was
a few of them back like rewind like eight years.
And so he's got to be popular.
Nine thousand subs.
So he's but like I saw it and it's just it was just embarrassing to watch.
And I was like, we don't we don't need to cover it.
We don't. None of us can mention it's literally him just going,
stop talking about the last Jedi.
It's like, OK, no, it's bad.
The hell, maybe we could check it out if if we don't get a full fap.
I mean, fap out of this, you know, this full fap.
I don't know who said that.
What? Speaking of full fap.
Our subject video for today is CinemaSins.
Everything wrong with Avengers Infinity War, which
hopefully some of you may or may not have seen.
I haven't. We have.
I liked it. I haven't.
I may have given some people the wrong impression of my video,
even though I had a line for it.
I don't think it's a flawless film.
And we will probably cover the things that are that are fucky in it.
A better word, but aliens, colonial marines is for player.
We can do it, guys.
When would we do that?
Where would we plan for?
I don't know.
Mueller, I'm going to gift you aliens, colonial marines on Twitter.
I am Twitter. Steam.
Play it through Twitter.
I'm pretty sure I might have it.
I can't remember.
I pull up my steam, but I don't want to do that right now
because I don't feel calm screen, which is I shall look and see how much it costs.
I'm going. I don't want to waste money on it, but I will do it.
You know, there we go.
All right. Colonial.
God damn it.
Coleman, it starts with colon, colon, eel.
It's only six bucks.
I can get it for you.
Well, then the three of us can suffer together.
Well, no, it won't be sufferable.
We'll laugh at it.
Oh, yeah, I guess I don't have it.
Well, it makes sense. I don't have it.
Why would I buy that game?
You don't have it.
It's awful.
Well, I'll buy it for both of you and we can all play it on stream together
and laugh at how awful it is.
I buy it. It's fine.
Would we make that like an efap, like a special edition of the aliens,
colonial marines collection?
We can call it a gap every game.
A pause.
That makes some sense.
But that doesn't have fat in it.
Yeah, you can't take fat.
What the fuck?
Every every fuck every.
Sorry, someone in games still have frames in them.
Well, this one has like stuttering frames all the time.
So well, you can read every frame of stutter.
There we go.
Apparently you can fix it up by doing changing something in any file right now.
No, no, we can't do that.
We should we have to play it as a digital split.
First off, that doesn't fix that terrible game.
But second, we should not do that because it's too funny
to look at all the horrible shit in that game.
Russian language desperately wants to know why Jay sounds like Paul Bettany.
Jay, do you want to I don't know that that's that's a vision.
People in the chat said every game of play.
Yeah, honestly, as for all of the people whose voices I get compared to,
that's the one that I'm like, yeah, that's that's fine.
A lot more often I get compared to each one of the guy and I'm like,
well, I mean, I could hear a bit of it, but it's probably just because you guys
are from similar areas or something.
What's interesting is that the six dollars is is for everything.
All the DLCs and the packs, you know, six dollars for everything.
OK, well, I'll definitely buy it for you guys.
And we'll do it as part.
We'll do it as like this game have.
Well, let me tell you more than it deserves.
Nine. Nine.
State is interrupted.
Movie map pack, bug hunt DLC, reconnaissance pack,
sharp sticks, sawed off, double barrel shotgun,
the collector's edition pack and the limited edition pack.
We got to play it, guys.
We got we got to give it.
We can even do like the terrible DLC that people are like,
this fixes the whole story, but it just makes the story
even more retarded than it usually was.
Well, we'll figure something out because
assuming the online still works, a court campaign thing.
Yeah, I mean, we don't need to play the multiplayer.
No one cares about.
Well, I was going to say, do you know that it definitely is a court campaign?
Yes, I looked it up.
Oh, OK, good.
All of the DLCs are the same price as the full collection.
Well, it seems they would have to do it.
Nobody has come with the the game.
This has come with the actual game.
Someone suggested every frame a game and you could call it a fag.
I don't know if he's like, did you mean E-frag?
And then we're like, no, oh,
it sounds like bearing.
Jay does not have an Australian accent.
How could you possibly?
Yeah, and he doesn't steal art either.
Oh, true, true.
He hasn't gotten his channel nuked for that yet.
I don't I don't.
This is this this is something I'm definitely not getting.
He's bearing as a YouTuber who used a bear for a while.
And then the people who own the picture of the bear, like claimed it
and got his channel.
The role of the story is don't sell merchandise with copyrighted material.
Make it just get a fan to draw you something, pay them and then you're good.
You'll be fine.
Don't grab something off Google and then put it on a T-shirt.
That's not a good plan.
Don't do what Soulja Boy did.
You know, but I agree to the term.
He's team subscriber.
I don't know about that.
Oh, Soulja Boy like bought a bunch and knock off Chinese consoles
and started calling them like the Soulja console or whatever
and started selling like illegal Nintendo roms on them
and Nintendo's like seeking to put him in jail.
I like how so far I'm that character in like if this was a movie,
I would be that character who doesn't know what's going on.
And the rest of us are like giving you all the exposition.
The audience can tell.
There's a whole little book to read through free fat.
Let's be fair. Basically, you're Frodo
and the rest of us are Gandalf trying to tell you
how everything is. There's so much to explain, Frodo.
I still haven't seen those films, by the way.
What? What's wrong with you?
I told you to do it last time we talked.
Oh, that sounded jitty.
We're going to need a new guest.
I literally just watched all three of them yesterday.
Really? Really? Yeah.
Well, I do it like seven times a year.
They're my favorite movies.
I've watched them all the time.
Pretty sure. Well, let's watch this.
Let's watch this movie. Let's watch the CinemaSins movie.
Yeah, I was going to say, but do I do I read Super Chats
as a thing before starting it or wait until we end it?
Well, we'll take a break.
All right. You can catch up.
I can go outside and pee.
Just go outside and pee.
Well, yeah, it's a doggo.
Yeah, I'm not going to I'm not going to fucking piss where I sleep.
Yeah. We'll be disgusting.
Come on, dogs are better than.
Jeez. Dogs at least care about their hygiene to some extent.
Oh, my God. All right.
We will we will read them at a break.
I will I will run through them.
But until then, yes, is everybody quite ready?
I was born ready and naked.
You know, I just I do think it's important to bring up for the people
who are going to be in the comments inevitably saying
it's all just satire.
If you look at the comment section of this video
as a response to that, we don't care.
If you look in the comment section of this video, like all of the top comments
people correcting him about stuff.
So if this is satire, then CinemaSins fans are not aware of that.
Well, I mean, we're satire, OK?
Yeah, we're satire. So fuck you.
So if you criticize us now, we're going to sell our tax on that
and put it all over his Twitter. Yeah, it's that's why I'm pretending to be
a person who would do this.
So if you're annoyed at me, I'm nailing it.
Apparently, I'm playing a character.
Someone in the chat said satire is implied. Yeah.
Curiously, by the way, you know, the whole
the ding slam of the hammer noise thing.
What did you what was your thought process for coming up with the your
reverse version of that?
Jay, exactly. What are you going to do?
Because I was what a lot of people will just do the dings anyway.
Well, when I when I have you mean the ding I use on my channel.
Yours is like a bong.
So I went into my music software and I made a sound.
I was curious if you would have considered
like reversing the sound of the ding just for the hell of it.
They do that in their own videos anyway to to take things off.
I just wanted a distinct sound that was like similar enough
that people would know what it was.
You had a thought sound.
Would have gotten you to so many more views, dude.
Occasionally, I do use like,
you know, the scene in Alien 3 where the guy screams fuck.
Wait, you mean in the cafeteria?
In the cafeteria when the guy is like, fuck.
Yeah, I use that soundbite occasionally.
And on videos, I don't mind being demonetized.
It's like the best part of that whole movie.
And it's just the best part of that entire film. Yeah.
Sorry. I don't need to pause it because I was like, fuck.
I don't need to read a super chat ahead of time.
It's just the guy said that reaction is why I always hesitate to tell people
I've neither seen Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings.
It's like, it's before they were scared.
How?
You know, I'm impressed either.
I know a guy from high school who had never seen Star Wars.
And I was like, how do you live in the West?
And you've never seen the biggest movie ever?
I guess like literally ever for us, though, like between us four,
probably, well, even me and Wolf, even just me,
like the amount of movies we've seen is is probably unrealistic
for the average person by far.
But I just spent my whole entire
yesterday watching Lord of the Rings, so.
Well, you know, it's a good way to spend time.
Yeah. Woke up at seven in the morning.
Got done it like 12 at night.
Still frustrated that he says the in 22 minutes or less things don't.
It's too high if this is 23 minutes.
Yeah, but he said it's going to the doesn't account for the intro
and outro rags. Jesus. Oh, OK. Idiot.
Spoilers, by the way, guys.
Thanos dies. I mean, wait, what does it know?
He doesn't.
Even for giving the nine seconds a black screen, this logo.
It's a favorite that he does and comes back to life immediately.
I mean, that was funny enough.
Wolf said in his original video on Infinity War
that Thanos healed himself.
Do you say via the time stone or do you say in general?
Well, I don't know if I said he healed himself.
I think I just said that he used the time stone
because it looked green to me when he like vanished.
So I was just like, all right.
So he just used the time stone.
Well, because a friend of mine was like,
you said that's not a thing that happened to me.
And I was like, it's not, though.
He said, look at the scene again.
And if you look at it really slowly in HD, it looks like something's happening
with his wound, like it might be sealing up and it's a bit of green on it.
Like it looks like he's healing himself.
Yeah. And I was like, is that something he can do?
Yeah, I mean, I genuinely like it wasn't me being disingenuous.
I genuinely think it's funny because from just seeing in the cinema,
I'm like, no, Wolf was wrong.
And I saw in the blue and I was like, he might have been right.
But, uh, yeah, I don't know.
Seconds for one goddamn studio.
I don't know about you guys,
especially being as less invested in the MCU than me, probably.
But I enjoyed every fucking minute of every second of the intro
because of the whole anniversary.
And this is the big finale sort of thing.
I like the wrong. It's a sin.
And I liked the the different music rather than like the heroic.
Yeah, that it usually plays.
Isn't it like they play the distress signal over this, right?
Yeah, they have like Thor saying we are refugees, please don't kill.
I'm pretty sure it's again, not just a crack,
but it's just an interesting detail.
I think I've said this on eFap before, I can't remember.
But the voice is Kenneth Branagh, who directed Thor one.
Wait, is that the voice in the in the distress signal?
Apparently, but I remember checking.
I thought that was Thor.
No, it's it's the director from Thor one.
They call white people sound the same.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, not all Asgardians.
It should have been.
It should have been psycho a teacher doing the distress signal.
Yes. Supposedly kills half of a people he encounters.
So is this half of what was left of Asgard?
Because it looks like a whole lot more.
It's half a ship.
So I can tell you as well, I counted those bodies when I was doing a video on it.
And there are 16 people on bed on the floor.
Half of Asgard.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but at the end of Thor three,
there's quite a lot of people in that throne room ish luck scene.
If you remember, right, they're all standing.
Yeah, it's literally full, isn't it?
Yeah, so this literally, I mean, it's it's figuratively like a ceiling.
You're only so tall.
It's like mostly full guide.
But the floor is full.
This is important.
Of course, this is what one would call a nitpick.
But I don't even know if we can call it that because I don't think it's accurate.
Yeah, I'm also wondering if you have a problem with nitpicks,
then this is not the channel for like you.
I'm fine with the idea that they're nitpicking.
Just make it right.
You know, be correct.
You know, the part that gets me is that you would have split the ship in half
and somehow Korg and Valkyrie ended up on the other half.
Like you'd think that, well, I mean, you know, no, no, no, no, that happened.
But it happened. The film's telling us it happened.
And that I got good news.
I'm going to run part two.
OK, steam steam is finished downloading aliens, colonial marines.
OK, I have even better news.
Someone in the chat said rhino milk balances the universe.
Purple retard is true.
Yeah, anyway, during since Asgard lost so many at the hands of Cate Blanchett
and Thor part three, does Thanos update what constitutes 50 percent population?
I don't think so.
You know what? I'm glad the movie didn't go into this.
I don't I don't think Thanos gives a shit, really.
You know, if you tell Thanos, let's just say there's a thousand people in universe
and 500 will be killed by your actions.
He's like, good.
Then if they go, however, if you don't be very specific, 550 will die.
He'd be like, that's fine, too.
Like I'll get close enough.
Yeah, you know, this this film is really missing a scene with Thanos
sits down and then does some math like a calculator.
It's like a million.
I've killed 20 people in this battle.
Carry the four.
It's he's in a coma.
So he's not technically dead.
So that's point five.
He's about to like hook up Thor.
And then Thor's like, wait, a lot of us have died already.
He's like, oh, shit, really?
How many?
Like how many? Exactly half points.
There's no betting.
What if there's an odd number of people on the ship?
I'm just picture like a Thanos in like a business suit with big old glasses.
Just like he just sits down at his little desk and he's like,
all right, got to pull out my pocket calculator, guys.
His thumbs are like bigger than the prints out a little ticket
and hands it to you like, all right.
You I owe you 200 lives.
It looks like your next 200 babies are on me.
I like that he's counted himself, though.
I don't know if you guys can see it, but it says, or should we give him a pass
since he couldn't possibly know the devastation as God just went through.
Well, he could know that.
No, he could. Yeah.
But even still, it's like the Tesseract or your brother's head.
This two hour and 30 minute incomplete movie where Thanos
locates all the Infinity Stones is only necessary so that Thanos can snap
half the universe's population to death just so he can be lazy.
All this trouble he's going through to find Infinity Stones,
he could have traveled planet to planet and did this job faster
like six years ago when we were introduced to him in the first Avengers.
What? You think it would be faster to go to every individual fucking planet
and have an individual war on every single planet in the universe.
So my my thing with this, right?
Because a lot of people, he's not the universe and a lot of people have said,
like, number one, why didn't Thanos collect the stones any earlier?
And number two, like, why did he take so long?
Why didn't he do it himself?
All those all these other things.
But it's like, I think it's implied that he's trying to send out subordinates
to get them first and then Loki kind of failed him and Ronan betrayed him.
So wasn't there that like that after credit scene,
it was like one of the first times he was ever shown where he like grabbed
some weapon and he was he said something to the effect of myself.
That's a Tron singer.
He grabs the gauntlet, doesn't he?
Yeah, I think which I think it's implied that the first place
he goes to is Zandar and the reason he does is to get the power stone,
which I assume they haven't said this.
I assume he needs the power power one first,
otherwise he can't wield any of the other ones like the power
one gives him the power to wield the rest, if you know what I mean.
It'll just make him stronger in general anyway.
So it's probably a good one to go for first.
And the second he gets is the one that allows him to teleport.
Just like this order seems seems worthy so far.
And then he goes after the one that's the hardest to get.
But to do that, he has to bait in the Guardians, right?
That's why he does that first.
That's the whole plot line.
Then his his men have to go to earth because that's where two of the
well, the remaining ones are timeline wise.
It makes enough sense.
I don't I'm not sure where exactly the contradictions would lie.
Like is the complaint that he wasn't fast enough from what we know?
It's like people are saying, why didn't he do this sooner?
Like the same question is just like, why didn't anyone do anything sooner?
It's like this is this is just how long it took him.
Like if he was born sooner, maybe he would have done it sooner.
Maybe if he had more time, he would have got to this quicker.
And I might have had a new time to do things if he had lost.
I might have agreed with him, but he still wins.
What difference does it make?
Maybe if he wasn't purple, he got off his ass and done it faster.
But, you know, you know how those purples work.
The gauntlet had to be made.
We don't know how long that took.
Well, we know that he has the end of Age of Ultron.
Yeah. But isn't that timeline wise?
We would then assume he goes to Zandar,
which means he has to travel there, you know, how long that takes,
destroy the whole planet, take the stone and then meet up with Thor.
That would be his timeline.
Probably enough time in there to say that's what happens.
I don't know. It's like, is it three years?
I feel like the thing that's going to take most of us of just doing his research first.
You'd be tough to find this out.
Someone said, guys, it there is an old Chinese proverb
that says measure twice, cut once.
I don't know what that means, but I agree.
Someone in a chat said, why didn't Thanos just fly the Eagles to Endor?
And this trouble he's going through to find infinity stones,
he could have traveled planet to planet and did this job faster.
Like six years ago when we were introduced to him in the first Avengers.
Yeah, I don't think you understand how big the universe is.
Yeah, I was about to say we didn't even address his actual retarded point in fairness.
You can't just jump across the universe instantly without the fucking space stone.
That's what he does it with.
But yeah, so yeah, I don't have the Tesseract.
It was destroyed on Asgard.
If Thor doesn't send Loki down into Odin's trophy room at the end of Thor the Third,
does the Tesseract survive it and float around in space?
And does Thanos quest end when he realizes he can't possess the space stone?
Does the snap only produce impotent sparks at that point?
It's a hypothetical.
What would happen if the movie was completely different?
What would happen if something else happened?
Some part of me thinks that the space stone would be fine in space.
Yeah, I doubt it would be.
But as for him finding it, they would probably have to make up a reason for why he could.
But again, well, they don't do that with any of the other stones.
Well, this is the thing I just assumed.
Why not go?
Because as writers, you know, the Russo's do a lot of things that I appreciate.
But I figure it's an easy explanation to just say, if you possess one stone,
you get a sense of where the other stones are, you know, so you just had to get one.
And he knew where one was.
And from there on, but they don't ever have an explanation for that.
So I would rather thin that.
They'd be like, how the hell did Thanos know exactly where all the stones were?
But, you know, that's another that's another thing.
This one is just what would have happened if Loki didn't pick up the Tesseract.
But that's not what happened.
And I think I talked to Jay about this before.
But like, it it's it would be out of character for him not to have grabbed the Tesseract.
That was when we were watching the film on the call.
Someone in the chat said Thanos Ben.
And guys, you know what to do.
Come on, guys, let's see those Thanos Ben photoshops.
One of Michael, Sarah, Adam.
A purple Michael, Sarah head on his big body.
Hey, man, it would look better than that awful Quentin Thanos Photoshop.
That's true.
Can someone make that better as well?
Imagine Quentin, but physically fit.
Could you imagine Quentin without a unibrow?
I need to look at it.
Quentin central.
This genuine question, though, by the way, the the the big dude and the telekinetic guy,
they literally like teleport, well, fly right to Doctor Strange and they refer to him as stone
keeper. It's like, how do you guys know?
But it's almost the movie plays as if we should have known.
And I don't remember any detail that we've explained it.
But hey, well, with the time stone, I feel like it doesn't really need an explanation
because the time stone has been with Doctor Strange for a while now.
And that's just something they could have researched.
But you get the impression they're prepared for a really long time for this.
And if every stone was in like a constant place, then it would be fine for them to know where
they were. The ones that I have the ones that it seems weird with are the ones that are moving
about like the mindstone space.
So it's weird that they know it's Wakanda.
Well, yeah, I was about to say the space stone has been with the Asgardians for ages now, but
it only recently nearly left Asgard.
And I guess Thanos cut them off right as they were leaving that area.
Also, I'd like to bring up the fact that there are no war runners in Wakanda.
And that makes me very unhappy.
They account for that in the dialogue.
They're part of a tribe.
And then they say that tribe is not interested because they're still recovering or something
like that. Yeah, look, I don't know why I'm just upset.
They're in a rhino milk shortage.
Yeah, they're in rhino recovery.
The rhinos are trapped in a penetrable forest.
I'm sending it anyway.
We have a Hulk.
Why does Hulk hold back during the battle while Thanos destroys the Asgardian ship
until the end when Loki says we have a Hulk?
What the fuck was he doing before then?
I just imagine that he was out for the count from its previous fight or something.
Unless he won't battle.
I'm not sure.
I feel like this one is fair.
It could be, yeah.
Well, it's the whole thing.
I don't wait for a specific entrance.
If we were asked to make a scene that's 10 seconds long to explain why this is the case,
I would probably just argue that he went back into banner form before then.
They get attacked.
He's consumed.
And then there's just a scene where he's like, come on.
Oh, come on.
And then he comes out and that would actually inform the rest of the film better in a way.
Yeah, and it's not like it's much of a thing to buy anything.
No, that's what I'm saying.
If I was tasked to write it, that's what I would do.
Yeah, I probably would have started off with the very first thing we see is Thanos beating
the shit out of Hulk rather than have this little jump ambush that doesn't really make too much sense.
It's there so that Loki can be the one to say we have a Hulk this time.
But it's not like it contradicts anything in the film.
It's just that we don't see it.
Yeah, why did it take so long to happen, film?
But it's enough.
Like I said, there could have been a reason for it.
There's no it doesn't directly screw up.
But I will give Cinema Sin's leeway for this one.
All right, Cinema Sin's high five, okay.
All right, you got one thing right.
Let's see all the other things you're going to get wrong.
Thanos destroys Hulk with only one stone in his glove.
Later, with many stones in the glove, his punch will be held by Super Angry Cap in America.
After going toe to toe.
He doesn't use the stone for either of these things.
What I will say is as far as I am aware, possessing the power stone makes you powerful,
quote unquote, you know?
Oh, well.
But I mean, the count, as far as I'm concerned, he's countering the Hulk here.
If you notice the way he fights, he's not just brawling.
He's like dodge counter, dodge counter, dodge counter any any throat punches him as well.
With Cap, do you guys remember him struggling to defeat Cap?
I'm pretty sure the scene I wish he would have showed it is.
But he kicked everyone's ass.
Thanos is just surprised.
He's like, this is a normal human guy, and he's desperately trying to stop me.
And then he just beats him into the ground.
He could have done it the whole fucking scene, but he's just staring at him.
When he fights Cap, I have the scene like just memorized now because of
the times I've had to bring it up.
He doesn't use any of the stones.
He like reaches out towards Cap with his gauntlet hand.
Cap stops his hand, and then he's like, huh, this guy's pretty strong.
And then Thanos just punches him straight out of the fight.
And that's that's it completely done.
Yeah, it doesn't power level wise.
And I'm confused by the point because Thanos beats everyone.
Everyone.
Is it just he didn't beat Cap fast enough?
That's the problem.
He literally beat Cap in like two seconds.
I just thought it was always an epic moment because Cap is only a normal man
pushed to his best limits sort of thing.
And he's the final line before he gets to his goal.
That's really cool.
He is the final.
He's final avenger.
Well, technically, full of autism.
Why?
Oh, shit.
The friends are reference.
Fuck.
I couldn't totally miss that.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, yeah, technically Scarlett, which is the last one.
But you know, the next part of the he goes toe to toe with Iron Man on Titan for a while.
He does.
Iron Man does seem to put up a better fight against Thanos than Hulk does.
But I feel like he's actually using like, yeah, he's using tactics.
Besides, didn't Iron Man defeat Hulk?
Uh, with a really, really, really big Iron Man suit.
He did do it.
Ultron is like my least memorized.
I don't believe you, except Dark World.
Yeah.
That that scene was also just hideous.
I thought the MCU was pretty clear about Hulk not being a smart fighter.
Remember, he just throws himself at the enormous Satan creature.
Just like, yeah, fuck it.
I love that scene, by the way.
It's awesome.
With Iron Man on Titan for a good bit and the power distribution slash comparisons
in the MCU have never felt more squirrely than in this group.
I mean, this seemed fine to me.
I don't know.
Also, where was Valkyrie?
Valkyrie should have at least been shouted out in this movie.
Think Odin Valkyrie got half my people away to safety as all Thor had to say later.
Isn't that implied?
Yeah, I would imagine.
I mean, I haven't seen that weird without it being beeped out.
But I mean, I went into this thinking, oh, so are they all dead then?
Because they never really do mention them.
When the scene opens and it shows off the ship, I was like, oh,
that's a reference, isn't it?
The whole 50 people die, 50 people don't sort of thing.
The problem with Jeremy's suggestion of putting in a line later of Thor saying,
thank God, Valkyrie got half my people to safety is that
he literally doesn't see anyone else that knows who Valkyrie is.
I mean, but how clunky would that have been?
Yeah, I mean, you could put in a line to that effect if he was talking to,
you know, it's like, oh, did Thanos destroyed my ship?
Oh, were your people okay?
Well, half of them were okay.
Valkyrie, so you know, you could you could write dialogue that that communicates that.
Maybe if you had Thor say something like you've you've killed my people
and then Thanos just says half.
Like it or in that conversation with between Thor and Rocket,
he could have been said something to the effect of at least half my people are safe.
But yeah, he does say that later, doesn't he?
Does he?
Pretty sure he does.
Jay, use your powers.
Does Thor say I don't remember people are alive?
I don't remember him saying that.
I mean, it wouldn't be fab without being pedantic.
So infinity will script.
All right.
What does he what does somebody does say in that scene?
Just so I can control effort.
That's through the hot rabbit.
He says rabbit through the whole thing.
I don't know.
We were talking through half the movie when we watched it.
Stabbed through the heart is as a line from I think the scene you're talking about.
Wait, wait.
Look up sister because he talks about his sister at that point.
Birthways, hammer, dead brothers, annoying, blah, blah, blah, blah,
killed by dark elf, particular mid mission.
I think it's earlier than that.
It might have been in the scene where he first wakes up.
I can't remember.
Someone in chat.
There's a couple people in chat who said that all says to rocket half my people are dead.
All right.
Let me search for that.
Half my Oh, yeah.
He says the power stone because he stole it last week when he decimated Zaddar.
He stole the space stone from me when he destroyed my ship and slaughtered half my people.
That's what he says.
Okay, so that's a really tiny.
Okay.
Yeah, but that's what we were getting for it.
Yeah, a little bit of exposition.
Just to the is what mission accomplished.
That's true.
Yeah, Pedantry wins, folks.
This is why the streams are seven hours long.
This guy who sat through 18 goddamn films.
And if I'm remembering correctly, 75% of the MCU has been Thanos bitching about traffic
on the freeway.
And we haven't once been introduced to these powerful that follow him around or why he
needs them.
Well, I mean, I mean, I guess I agree with him.
I would have been cool to have had these guys pop up in the other movies in some way,
shape or form.
No denying that.
I don't think they needed to be.
They don't need to.
It would have been, you know,
but that's true.
I think the mistake because I kind of read that media talk about this, but the lack of
Thanos scenes was always implying that whoever ends up with Thanos has the freedom to do a lot
instead of being locked down to whatever happens in those scenes.
Or it was literally because they were just like, we have no idea what we're doing with this guy.
So we just give him tiny scenes.
But, you know, it's almost like he uses Loki and what's his name, Ronan, because they were like,
not the people he actually cares about, because I don't know about you guys,
but it looks like he cared about these four more so than, I don't know, his the other people.
It would have been nice if he showed up more in the first Guardians film rather than
the most bland villain ever conceived in the history of film being Ronan.
Ronan is like the weakest part of Guardians one for me.
Isn't he returning?
Oh god, why would he?
He's gonna be in Captain Marvel.
I'm assuming it's just in the cameo.
Oh my god, please don't.
If they have an emotionless, boring protagonist, why not have a villain that reflects that?
I want it to be good.
At least make the villain good.
Don't stick us with Ronan.
You just-
Mister, I'm bad because I'm bad.
You just don't like blue people.
No, I don't.
Especially when they wear shitty eyeliner.
Sure, put Infinity Stone retrieval in the hands of your henchmen.
That worked so well in the 39 other movies.
Well, clearly trust these guys more.
That's what I was always, they thought, Children of Thanos, right?
Loki and Ronan weren't Children of Thanos.
As a side note, Rags, do you?
I pointed this out the last time we watched it, but
do you look at that female alien and just immediately get Hellblade vibes
every time her face shows up?
Because every time I see her, I just see that blue mark over her face
and I'm just like, Hellblade, Hellblade, Hellblade.
Kind of.
By the way, Hellblade was my 2017 game of the year.
You should play.
It's a very good game.
Very good game.
That's like your opinion.
It is.
Excellent.
I've literally never heard of this game.
Hellblade, send it with sacrifice.
Pretty good game.
The sequel to Colonial Marines.
Oh, that looks good for my PC to run.
It's actually really well optimized.
Yeah, it's gorgeous.
Like what graphics card do you get?
I'll be honest.
I couldn't tell you right now.
I would have to check.
Who could fucking tell us?
I don't know right now.
What'd you say on the side of it?
I don't know.
It's in my computer.
Wait, you don't?
Did you buy it pre-built?
I did not buy it pre-built.
So how did you-
It made a PC for me.
It was a Christmas present.
Oh, and he didn't give you like the side that shows you
all your parts and all their glory?
I trusted him with that.
He knows his shit.
Well, that's your problem.
You know what happens when you trust people?
You get the Inquisition.
So go to-
The Inquisition.
Go to system.
System.
Look at the-
Look up system specs.
Isn't that something you can do?
Something.
I don't know.
I've never actually looked because I've always known-
System information.
Look up-
Wow.
I know Windows 10.
It is.
Me too.
Yes.
Yeah.
You just type into the little search bar,
system information, and then I'm looking right at-
It's right under your-
No, not right under your processor.
Fuck.
Where is it actually?
People are saying-
Actually, no.
This might be the wrong-
But why is this happening now anyway?
Because we're pedantic.
This is more important.
I just go-
I've put it in myself, so I just know what it is.
I don't know-
No, wait, wait, wait.
Right click on the home screen,
and then go to display settings,
and then from there you go to about,
and-
Oh, fuck.
That doesn't show it either.
Damn it.
Here, look, when you right click on your desktop,
does it have Nvidia control panel pop up?
No.
Wait.
No.
Hang on.
Jesus, what card do you have?
Just right click on your desktop.
This is why the streams are seven hours long.
This is true.
Because you-
Because I don't know my way around my computer.
So, right click on your desktop,
and it says like view, sort, buy, refresh, all that.
Does it have Nvidia control panel?
No.
Oh.
Christ almighty, do you have AMD?
I mean, I have an AMD processor, but do you have it?
Okay, hold on.
I will find this stuff out.
What GPU I have.
Oh, shit.
I should probably do Windows 10.
Yeah, I don't actually know how to find Windows 10.
Okay.
Okay.
I will find this stuff out for you,
and I will let you know at some point-
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This is what we're going to do.
This is what we're going to do.
You're going to click in the box at the bottom left,
and you're going to type in run and enter.
Hang on.
Okay.
Okay.
Did you do that?
Yeah.
Okay.
Did a little box pop up?
It is.
Okay, now type in D X D I A G.
Hit enter.
Hang on.
Well, I've forgotten literally all of those letters.
No, if you just go to task manager.
Go to task manager.
Just go to task manager and then hit the performance tab,
and it's right there.
It's like...
This is like being on the phone to tech support, but you won't.
Okay.
No.
Come to task manager and then hit the performance tab.
Thank you.
That's racism GPU
Card information. Yes. We also accept payments of
Okay
Did you go to DX diag? No, just go to task manager and hit the performance tab. It's right there. Oh
Okay
This
This is right, okay. Well, if you're a performance
What have you got a stream down? It's GP. I do you see that you see what just hit performance and it's right
Should be
I was looking for I was expecting Michael Sierra, but hey that Wix. Yeah, what is it? What does it say?
Yes
RX Vega 11
RX Vega 11. I'm not familiar with
Okay, time to Google search it. What was it again AMD able to run it fine
AMD Vega RX something 11 was I've closed it. No, I like 11
Let's see
Okay, what we're gonna look it up. This is your GPU Jesus. I've never even fucking heard of this
Why do you have AMD GPU?
I don't know. I mean I have a Ryzen 1700 CPU, but I have a GTX 1080 GPU
What the fuck are you doing with when was this computer made?
Recently, it was last Christmas
hmm
Just just buy hellblade put it on the low settings. Is that the conclusion we've come to just buy hellblade
Just buy hellblade. Okay
Yeah, make sure you listen
Lord of the Rings and you're expecting him to buy a game
Well, he needs to be there. You can beat hellblade sooner than you can watch all three
You can actually play hellblade three times before you finish all three Lord of the Rings movies
That wasn't hyperbolic though the game only takes like blade in two and a half hours
Lord of the Rings is 12 hours. That's what he's talking about
12
Yes, you can't beat alien. You can't beat hellblade three times. Okay, maybe two and a half. It's only like a five-hour game
Yeah, I mean if you really rush through it, but do you want this man to rush through it through it?
Dude I played it I like played the whole thing in like five maybe five or six hours
I don't remember exactly because I played
important distinction
Difference it takes me that long to beat Ori in the blood for us on a hearing it to 12 hours. It's a big deal
There's no side quests there are collectibles
Okay, so I beat it in eight hours
You just suck at the game. No, I enjoyed it. I
Enjoyed it too. That's why I played it multiple times. I enjoyed it. What do you mean? You enjoyed it more you fuck
Enjoyed it three hours more than you did. Well, I enjoyed it enough to replay it multiple times after that
Once it well, you're
That's like all the people who are like Halo 5's a game interpret it that way
And it's only like fucking hours your mics cutting out because whenever it hears bullshit, it just turns off
Oh says so that's what happened the last time we streamed, huh? No, I I what?
Time we streamed right you're just filled with bullshit at the end. You keep cutting out. What's that?
You fuck
So I've been playing elevated music this whole time. Are we good to go? Um
Um
Yeah, excellent. So like this is movie Infinity War. Oh
I like that movie. This is video. So I'm like a Sarah in it. That's true
This is one of them videos that says hey, it's not as good as you think it is. All right. Oh
I'm gonna see about that once been introduced to these powerful folks that follow him around or why he needs the cause children
That's your opinion. Hey, look, it's hell blade in the corner over there
Bring them to me on time sure put Infinity Stone retrieval in the hands of your henchmen that works so well in the
39 other movies didn't you literally grumble fine? I'll do it myself
I mean even if they stole the stone which they probably can't wield is something that is implied by the fucking old dude
I'm pretty sure Thanos could take it off him with you know, how he does that throughout the movie with everyone else, but
Oh
Say better on the 39 other movies didn't you literally grumble fine? I'll do it myself
Oh, no, look he's gonna die again like in Thor the dark world, which definitely means he's probably not dead
And even if he is I'm sending it anyway because that dark world scene did not get sent enough
I mean he dies in Thor one, too
He's like Sean Bean and
Yeah, Sean Bean doesn't come back
Yeah, he does in the next movie. He's in in a different movie. He's the same character
He doesn't come back in a different movie. Well, he did come back in hitman
So I guess he had to transcend different like low media and can do it. No, no Sean Bean was in hitman
The new one, yeah, people people got banned on Twitter because they were like I gotta kill Sean
Do you know I found out
Destiny got removed from Twitter because he made a joke about how he was gonna bomb the offices of his ISP. That's what he said
Wow don't make jokes on Twitter guys, this is the internet you've created yeah
In previous movies we were told Hulk and banner have different memories
So how does banner remember the Hulk alone? No, is that true?
Yeah, they do have a
banner doesn't recognize Valkyrie
He's like I feel like I know you but he doesn't know who she is
Is there any other references to those are just Ragnarok?
Couldn't tell you I'm trying to remember if there's a scene where they kind of establish the folks memories and banners
Does it would it would depend on what banner was doing on the ship?
Before we see him in the scene with Hulk. That's oh, yeah
See this thing Ragnarok closes out with the Hulk form
What if he then turned into banner and had a cup of tea and then they got attacked he saw Thanos went
Oh my goodness and hit himself on something fell over and then when he finally woke up
Loki saw him and went hey do the thing they go
Continuity fixed. This is why you should write for movies guys
Yeah, it's not that you can't fix it with making without making continuity errors. We just don't know yeah
There's there's multiple reasons why banner may have known that but I suppose
Maybe if to help correct you could have had him turn back into banner before getting sent away
Someone said that they established that in the original Incredible Hulk, but in fairness, nobody fucking remembers that movie
Even Marvel was like let's never speak of what genuinely the only reason I want to see that movie again
Is to try and remember it cuz I can't tell you anything other than it is so forgettable
Let's just walk. What let's watch the Incredible bulk
Tony Stark famous Avengers running around Central Park and nobody's bothering him. This guy is more famous than any president or celebrity in history
That unfortunate pause for it
I'm going to lay it on the down low for you here cinema sins
So I met Michio. No, sorry, George Takei. I met George Takei in person
and
He was walking he left the hotel that I was working at and he walked down the street and he passed a fair number of people
and nobody
Stopped him or anything. They just didn't either notice or they saw him and assumed
He wasn't actually George Takei or they didn't recognize him
But wait a minute. This what this hotel thing was real. I thought that was just a joke for the last
Deadly fucking serious. Oh, I thought that was part of like the fictional rags lore
No, like I've talked to I've talked to famous people. I
Shook his hand before I learned that he was a fucking cunt
A lot of people will notice a famous person and then decided themselves
I'm not gonna say anything, but that's so cool. Maybe try and get a picture
But to be surrounded in people like he's not Justin Bieber or whoever boy band
He was Justin Bieber. Someone might have shot him
Back when he was like a super famous
Teenage girls person, you know, like I don't know how old he was when that was the
Like I'm trying to think who'd be comparable to Tony Stark walking around in your mosque
Yeah, see a lot of people in my town wouldn't even recognize him. I don't think
But he does bring up like the next one
He brings up is the fact that dr. Strange literally opens a portal in the park and still no one gives a shit
Okay. Yeah, that would yeah, but they're not gonna run to it. The utmost they would just be surprised and stare at it
Well in that case, yeah that might just be bad
Fairness is in the Marvel world a portal opening in a solitary park is about the least
Interesting thing that could possibly happen. I just I'd be like is it the apocalypse guys? Is that why this is it bad?
So, how does banner remember the Hulk alone knows Tony Stark famous Avengers running around Central Park and nobody's bothering him
This guy is more famous. I guess he is fair. I was about to say like he was the Iron Man suit
But I guess people see his face enough just because he's a celebrity anyway than any president or celebrity in history
Do normal people see this well, I know New Yorkers are up on their Avengers knowledge. I'm not quite so sure they've been informed about them
Yeah, they should have had all the extras like stop for a second. Just staring I suppose
But um, that's minor as far as most people would be considered, right?
I reckon they should have had one act like all of the extras that completely normally
It's that one extra who takes out their phone is just like takes a quick picture and then carries on going
Just like the real this is normal in the in the model universe because shit
The Masters of the mystic arts banks and six elemental crystals
Huddling across the virgin universe if the universe is infinite
We're at least close to it then these stones were sent directions that should have guaranteed close to infinite
The universe is an infinite even if it was it's just a little bit shy if it was just two inches more
No one could ever combine them all just based on sheer math also, you know, I was six us in there
No, he said if if there was six and they were spread across the universe, there's no way they just be like miles away from each other
Oh universe miles like light years away for each other
You can quote me on that
But where you know one of them the Tesseract where's that originally it's it's in like a weird wall in
Germany or something or Poland like it's in it's Captain America film that they find it, right?
That's the original Tesseract location. I don't know where it was before then but whatever
I'm not certain about like who made the infinity stones or what he's commented on is two of them are on earth one of them is
On vormir whatever the the reality stone was with Norway
It was the sport the bridge
Alright, so that's Norway. The the reality stone got put inside Natalie Portman after they opened up a weird portal
Fucking I don't remember the dark will
And Natalie Portman, we can't say that it's against the rules
Just gonna say they're like the universe is what like tens of billions is years old
The thing I was gonna say was where they find the stones aren't necessarily where the stone started, you know
Yeah, there's like faster than light travel in the Marvel Universe. I believe I mean, of course
There's like the Bifrost and shit
So these these stones are gonna have been moved around by people like for basically since there have been people
To move around the stones who knew what they were
So, of course, they're gonna be like, you know
They're not gonna be just in the places that they would have gone to as soon as they were made
Yeah, they've been found collected moved around
Captain locations
Okay a tree picture on where they find the Tesseract in Norway and so I was just said it's assumed to be left there by
There's guardians and it's like that would make sense because there is like a pattern or whatever. So yes
That's that's the point is that it's not just convenient
it's not even convenient anyway Thanos has to jump around all over the place to collect these things and
Technically all the movies been leading up to this. So yeah, they've ended up where they've ended up. There's no real problem there
Why six two weeks? Yeah
But the whole ding for there being six is fucking stupid. I don't even know how is
Number of them if it was like a sire or one who would have been like that's higher. Yeah, that's true
There are six infinity stones ding ha ha ha. Oh ten of the sins makes videos ding
Look, there's no pink stone ding
We go through all the colors. No, so why six two weeks ago vision
He's offline. Okay, if he had a fucking transponder and knew it he wouldn't have waited until two weeks ago to turn it off
So this is some bull why?
Yeah, why?
If he had a transponder and knew it he wouldn't have waited until two weeks ago to turn it off. I don't understand
I mean, he was on good terms with them until a while ago. So he turns it off so that you can secretly meet Scarlett, which right?
We would have turned it off just before going to meet her. That would be the idea. I just don't see why that's a problem
Maybe he was just like a fuck it. Nothing's happening. Well, the way
The ways phrase this makes it sound like it would be an inherently a thing that vision would do like you would not allow a
Transponder on it's like why wouldn't he's like the most team player out of all of them?
Yeah, I mean he was making sandwiches for him in Civil War
I mean for for Civil War he wanted the pact
Yeah, he wanted everybody to stay together. So
Yeah, as a weird I don't understand that point
We both here kept mine fell out hard. We're not I speak in terms really
What was that letter caps at you at the end of Civil War then he specifically said if you need me
I'll be there and then I'm a need. Okay, this is coming from Iron Man's
Perspective where he didn't really like him at that point. Well, they've not made up since then
That's what the film is saying. They've not made up an Iron Man has kept a hold of that phone in case he needs him
Tony just said there that they're not on speaking terms. And yeah, they're not if you need if he needs him
He'll be there. That's not like it's not speaking to me. Yeah
If you desperately need me the world is in danger to call me. That's not hey just just we'll have a chat whenever you know
Hey, man, what do you get burgers downtown?
If you need me for burgers, I'll be there
Dude I my credit cards max. Do you have you have like 20 bucks for me?
I only know this thanks to the not movie Bob Bob vids video on cinema sense
They're very two different content creators and I feel sorry for Bob vids that he gets mixed up a movie Bob
but um
he shows a clip that I hadn't seen before you probably know about this Jay, but um
Cinema sins Jeremy. He actually like had this little bit in a video about how stupid it is that
Captain America Civil War was trying to happen when you got Batman vista Superman happening
And he was like you'll never be able to be more interesting than Batman vista Superman superman will destroy you at the box office
It's like a complete reverse. Oh, dear. I
Haven't seen that clip. Oh, have you seen the Bob vids video on cinema sins? I have
It's right at the end I think it's quite amusing I could play it but I mean there'll just be another thing we could possibly
Do later here all these dudes are superheroes and they all sense something sinister is happening outside
Instead of instantly leaping into battle. They take several seconds to gape like children at the strange noise like dickheads
So yeah, they take a few seconds to go. Hang on. There's something going like they sense that something's wrong
They don't hear a noise and they're like, what's that noise? You don't spread to every single noise
Yeah, imagine if like the floor creaked in that Asian was just like I got it
Die
That's such a weird complaint like it's literally like windy, isn't it?
They only go outside where they start seeing things that are quite big moving through the wind
They're like, oh shit. Something's going on like imagine Iron Man suits up and he like busts out of his head
It's just like pepper was drying her hair with a hairdryer. It's like oh, well, you know
Noise outside I need
But be too fast and you know one day
One day if I don't do this
I run the risk of standing around for a few seconds looking like a dick so I have to do this. It's important
The alien ship causes Peter's Spidey sense to go off and homecoming didn't give us any
Indication Spidey sense even existed and now this movie is just thrusting an army like well almost like they forgot it was a thing
And her own he has it in Civil War. Does he have it in in?
Homecoming at all
Very brief scene as far as I'm aware
There's just a very brief scene where he dodges an attack without seeing it and that's where it well
Yeah, the Civil War reference is awesome because it's
He detects something that's being thrown at him before it's thrown at him. That's that's the scene cinema sins. Obviously missed it
It's okay. We all we all have these moments. You just have more of them. It's fine guys can spiders actually do that
Hmm can spiders actually tell the future
Okay
No, no, all I'm saying is yeah spiders can probably tell the future
Probably. Yeah, if it's in spite if spider-man can do it clearly spiders can do it as well
He can tell when something's been thrown in before he's been thrown
They would be indestructible isn't the logic though when you go to hit a spider it like goes blue and it's just like how to do that
So faced because that's that's flies that to you that that's your opinion flies
time
That is why I have so much trouble killing all the goddamn gnats in my house
Flies have very many like ass so they could take off like a shot and they have very fast reflexes
People say the spider bill. Also they fly it's in the name
People posted spiders and like oracle
Things
Just imagine saruman is a spider and gandalf's like we can't use the palantir we they aren't all accounted for
Saruman shows up. He's a giant fucking spider on top of a tower. She loved though. That would just be that would just be iterative
Well, yeah
Well, she lob clearly she would have killed Frodo if she could use the she couldn't fucking tell the future
She just oh wait spoilers. Sorry. J. You'll you'll see the film eventually
time spider
Eventually, I was um, I was just a second there. So I missed that spoiler. I was just putting collecting fucking about sweet
Yes, how many fucking like how is it that these people just have all these goddamn emotes?
right a ghost butterfly milk spider like
I didn't know there were these many emotes on youtube
Egg right I can't
I still can't get over the idea. Like if science tried to study spiders their ability to see the future
Like guys we seriously need to fucking concentrate stuff on this
Almost like they forgot it was a thing and are only now implementing it. I need you to cause a distraction. Holy
We're all gonna die Ned you are a treasure me I approve of him approving of that. I love that bit in the cinema
Okay. Yeah, like an amazing reaction
Maybe none of the classmates on the bus see peter do this but plenty of other drivers and passengers on this bridge
What the fuck are they gonna do about it?
Just gonna say that is my first question
What the fuck could they do some of them might have been distracted by the giant fucking spaceship hovering over the city
That's another
No, but there's a boy on that bus
Well, so let's picture rags you're on your way to work for some reason you work in a building to go on your computer
You have to travel there and you're like, and you go. Oh wow, that's that spider man. Wow
That's spider man guy. I kind of what's more shocking a giant
I mean what's more shocking spider man jumping out of a bus or a giant flying donut over new york?
I mean what you um to the most benefit of the doubt rags then pulls the bus over or follows it to the thing and then
Who on this bus is not accounted for who was at the beginning of the ride and then they go, uh peter parker and then you go
I know
Then rags could be the next spider-man villains
I don't see why that matters even a little bit
Wait, so much dash cams as well
This wouldn't blow his cover
There's nothing die anyway, he can't even that's actually another really good point
Nobody would care because everyone is dust
And government surveillance this transition was definitely seen and captured on film and peter's cover is blown forever
Why would it blow his cover? You can't see his face
Yeah
You can tell he's
For like I said, the best you can do is know that he's from that school. That's about it
What's the matter with you kids? You've never seen a spaceship before? Yeah, sure
They've seen a spaceship and it usually means bad things. I've seen a tornado before that doesn't mean that when it happens
I'm gonna sit on the bus reading you mad at both
I'm just gonna wait he's complaining that that guy's complaining
I just want to say that um
My guess based on the fact that he sins the stanley cameo
My guess is that he made this video before stanley died and then just kept
Like sat on it until the end game trailer dropped to release it
Does he have any kind of like rest in peace stanley in this video at all? No
Yeah, that does make it sound like he didn't account for that
Three bring me this and it's really weird to sin that as well because it's obviously a joke
Like this is a fucking stanley cameo
But I suppose stanley
Just the fucking this is a satire. I can't make fun of this joke
which is like yeah, it's an old dude who said you have never seen a spaceship before because
It's probably referencing the fact that he's seen all kinds of crazy shit across all of these marvel movies
If we have you heard the theory that it's the same guy
For all the carriers. I like I like that theory
He's like a super powerful being or something is the one i've heard. Yeah, it's the count st. Germain
Read a book people
Dude a minute ago you were making metal fly with a flick of your wrist
Why do you even need the future space?
It will increase his chances of success
What if he just doesn't give enough of a shit why not send enormous hulk man to go and do the job for you why not
All right, look his squid were to ever been like a model where besides he does do it himself in a moment
What's big man takes the other big man away? Like it's
What strange comment?
This for you
Bruce's hulk transformation troubles become an impotence metaphor and does that mean when he's successful?
It's like he's a huge green boner. And what does that say about his character that he can only become a wrecked when he's angry
This is the most embarrassing mark
What anyone got a comment for that? I don't
um
It's just i don't even know what to say like that. It's clearly it's clearly a joke. It's like this isn't really
erectile dysfunction, but he's
Angry, he's also listen 40 of men over the age of 50 struggle with erectile dysfunction
It's totally normal and it's nothing to be ashamed about you shouldn't joke about it
Thank you, right
Acropolis been since in the cut I realized that nano bots are legit real world science to a degree
But tony suit is applying it in ways that make it utterly unbelievable
This is a movie about a purple man who kills half the universe by dissolving them by snapping his fingers
That's believable. All right the par
This is the problem cinema sins you're targeting that as the unbelievable part with all this other shit
There's literally a magic portal on screen right now that leads to a giant crocodile man
But here's the thing it's believable when it's magic
All right. Well you're saying it's not believable because tony is just a human and all this technology
It's not believable if it's technology, but if it's magic
You see as long as it doesn't have any explanatory power and it's literally magic
It's believable this movie this this franchise
combines like magic and science so doesn't it but in the first thought he says
Your ancestors called it uh magic, but you call it science
Well, I was just gonna say the only iron man suit that I think is believable and obviously i'm a layman is the first suit
He builds that one actually looks legitimately like it would work. The other ones seem a bit science fiction like they're extremely
Compact considering the amount of weaponry that are in them and the amount of functionality they have
Yeah, there does get a point where even i'm like, oh, this is before the nano bots thing
The nano bots thing is still like op as fuck. But I mean
His his technology got into the realm of magic well before
uh
Whoever iron man 3 the fucking suit that like flies
Individually and can travel across the world to attach itself to him and attach itself to other people at will like come on
You believe that?
I don't believe that
Yeah on the subject of hulks boner. I think how big that dick is
That was an important comment
All right
Nobody judge the universe. I mean only thor knows about it. Oh, and this is an actual problem. I have with the film
Uh, he's he's highlighting here. They show us
the wizard people can literally chop arms off
And uh, then the the big bad of the film has a gauntlet that's destroying
It's like can you can you can you chop his arm off to be fair?
They are only able to do that because he puts his arm through the pool
Yeah, but when they when they put him in stasis thanos, dr
Strange could open a portal they could you know slot him through just by his arm, but then poof cut it off
It's plausible this is the thing like I don't think this one's perfect
But I would like it if I was writing it. I don't know how I would answer that I feel like
Uh, it doesn't work because he has the power
What if he just opened the portal beneath him and then closed it really so that it just chopped off his legs
But then you don't get he sells the gauntlet on what if he can change reality and give himself new legs, you know
Besides he may have spoken to a spider oracle before then to know that that was going to happen thinking about it
Dr. Strange is essentially a spider in this film
I mean he does to have that little twitching moment. So
Rekt when he's angry. This is the most embarrassing mark rumple has been since in the cut
I realized that nanobots are legit real world science
I just do want to bring up as well that this is a world where alien technology crashed on earth. What about wakanda?
That shit. Yeah, wakanda. They're balls that can fix your spine if it's snapped it off
Yeah, they know how to do that somehow because of a metal
That's that makes sense
They have a really strong metal which means that they're super smart
because reasons people post the spider that the clocks of that earth after it
To a degree but tony suit is applying it in ways that make it utterly unbelievable
Here's some we definitely won't use later when it could sway the fate of the universe
I mean there are much more important dangerous hands that this can be used for to cut off in this film
Yeah, I agree unlock 17a
Thank god starkett pre-designed and built and voice program for deployment a space-worthy iron spider-man suit in the
I'm guessing a few months in spider-man homecoming if we take this point
For actually being accurate. Is it unrealistic that he could have made a spider-man suit in a few months?
I I I can't believe that didn't he mass produce iron man suits for himself in the third iron man
If he has the measurements of peter, then that's it
Surely he would be able to but that's not
Really relevant because this suit was built and unavailable in spider-man homecoming and jerry forgot
How did you get peter's measurements peter is really surprised when he sees the first suit?
Um, I don't know. I mean tony's a smart man. This is the real plot hole
Well, it's possible that it's a one-size-fits-all that it like shrinks down to his do we want to know how tony measured him?
Do we want to know that he more than likely consulted a spider and the spider was like, oh, yeah
He's like five foot eleven
People can remember spider crawls into your backyard and he looks for a spider. He's like he did spider
like a really big
Stress like i'm thinking of a cartoon like a big stressed face with a spider right next to you like, how do I die?
You don't want to
Stop
He just goes up to he goes up to pepper and he's like listen if you see a spider
Don't kill it. I need to talk to it
Yeah at this point I could totally imagine
Tony just having measurements requirements and he just puts it in a machine and it makes it for him because of how much
Everything's automated at this point
But it literally has nanobots that can build different weapons for him when he needs them. Mm-hmm
Oh
Yeah, a bit of a bit of a flub there, but you know, this is the first mistake he's made friday. Set him home. Yep
Um, why didn't the suit just want him back to work for tony?
I'm gonna mention the fact that it was um
Like the fact that he gets the time since homecoming completely wrong and the fact that it was literally in homecoming as well
Well, we didn't mention that didn't we?
Did you mention that? Yeah
Oh, oh shit
Yeah, you got sidetracked with spiders spiders are distracting. It's it's only fair. Um, how do we establish they can tell the future?
It's very distracting
But yeah, they should assume is coming so he's his problem here is the why didn't he make it so it flies him back
instead of using the
parachute
If you're telling me that the suit doesn't fly then why doesn't it if the suit does fly then there's no need for the
Parachute set why doesn't the suit fly? I don't think
I don't think spider-man needed flight when he made it that made that suit because of the whole web slinging thing
But um, you know what? I don't even necessarily have a problem with that
My question extends past that too. Why doesn't iron man just make everybody a suit at this point?
outside of just himself and peter
Oh god
But um, yeah, the suit does not fly that is that is that is true
And off especially if you've got friday controlling it
Okay
Somehow after that massive battle that ended in that one park banner retraced his steps and found tony's phone in the rubble like a needle
In a haystack called and thinks you're making this too difficult. Isn't this just where they originally started the fight?
Yeah, I thought this was where they were
It looks kind of like it
And it would make sense if one was here because he got knocked out here
Well, then again, he went back to that. Yeah, I don't know like that doesn't seem too far fetched to me
Yeah
They were like flying through the city though. Well, I mean I will agree it's a convenience I guess
Yeah, it's about all agree. It's convenience
Well, this is 100 definitely not a reaction to cinema sins complaining about text place names and movies being used when they're unnecessary
This is 100 definitely not a reaction to cinema sins complaining about text place names and movies being used when does anyone know what that means?
I think
No, I got nothing. Uh, all I have to say is that this was obviously a joke
Yeah, the fact that they called space space. Yeah, that does seem like a that does seem like a joke to me
I don't really actually obviously we know this and it assists the tone as well because we were about to jump into the guardians
That's probably what they're going for
I don't I don't know what he's saying
Cinema sins complaining about text place names and movies being used when they are unnecessary of all the retro references to make group is playing defender
What a infuriating video game. Why is even playing ancient earth games?
Anyway, aren't there modern alien games to download?
Uh, why do they have ancient earth music on board?
Oh
Because quill is from earth and he likes all the shit from earth
He probably played defender because it's like from the 80s or whatever. When was quill when it quill leave earth? Was it 90s?
I think it was the 80s
Let's have a look when a defender
release
Wait, that's not what i'm looking for defender arcade
I imagine they probably did try and find a game that matches 1981
And peter will
left
if
I mean has cinema sins ever wondered how difficult is it to keep a tree entertained?
Oh and peter quill was abducted in 1980
Oh
One year out apparently
But uh, well it doesn't even matter because quill's listening to music that was beyond
When he was in because he got like updates and stuff, but um
Yeah, I imagine. It's peter quill is the reason that grout has that
From the nebula at thowers convenient and illogical, but I do love fig newtons after that
What?
Convenient and illogical when they were responding to his distress signal. What's what's the fig newtons bit?
Why would he what what does fig newtons have anything to do with?
Well, it's clearly a joke. What's the joke though satire that thor is convenient and illogical
And illogical I would agree it's inconvenient that he slammed the fucking hood of the ship
But the reason they hear is the distress signal, which is fine with me
And then this just saves time
It's not like a plot contrivance or anything because this doesn't need to happen for the plot
I was convened right? Well, this part does because thor gets them to go to nowhere
Yeah, would they you think they would still find thor if they didn't have like him just slam
Yeah, no, they would eventually have found thor anyway
They would they could have just done the whole scam for life signals and it's like there's only one
It's
Someone said it's a ricky barbie reference
What's that?
You don't know what you've never seen taladega nights
Oh
I saw it when it came out, but I've forgotten it. I'm sorry
Yeah, I I saw a long time ago, but I if there's a reference to it, I I don't know it
I mean I I haven't seen it in a while myself
but
That's a good movie
Moving I like it
Illogical but I do love fig newtons after that encounter with a sudden new alien being group is still playing handheld video games
There comes a point when a parent's got a parent and clearly no one aboard the tree
Yeah, I do want to say um
Like an encounter with a new kind of alien being for the guardians has just got to be like a normal day
Yeah, the why would group care? I don't know why he would it's like oh they're doing what they literally like normally do
I should look up from my game for this
Isn't the whole point is that they get annoyed at him for not paying attention in this film?
Yes, that's a recurring joke. So yeah, okay this ship ever did that
So group ends up how he has the arrow by the way
Like if you guys didn't realize I was talking about group holding the game. Oh wait when he talks about group
You like on screen. He's referring to the on-screen character group. No, he's referring to drac's the big purple guy
That's fucked up the arrow. That's confusing
It's up like that affluenza kid in texas and everyone around him acts like oh snap. He's such a bad seed
Why didn't anyone do anything? He's anxious angry. He feels tremendous loss and guilt
So basically every single american then or even every human aren't we all anxious angry and feeling lost these do you guys feel tremendous loss every day?
Yes
I feel it every time like I finish my bag of doritos
Don't think of the doritos that you've lost because really you've gained them
Every time I look at my notifications on twitter, I do get these feelings
Don't be sorry that the doritos are gone. Be happy that you ate them
It's like some guy who's like i'm all right, and then sin was like what the fuck is wrong with you
God no, I now I want to go to the party store and get some doritos
I know I shouldn't but
Whitakers and species who the hell are you guys?
That's an awfully rude way to greet people
You don't know I once woke up in this room and this dude tried to do all this gnarly
To me with these strange tools and I was like who the hell are you and he said i'm your fucking dentist asshole
Dr. James Packard DDS was tough, but fair
Yeah, what can you say, you know, he's like, yeah that was that
Starting to understand why you skip over a lot of sins here jay
Yeah
Also, I just noticed your fucking icon
You put the hat. Oh the hat does make sense actually
No, I mean like it looked like he'd put it on its face
But then I was like, oh no spiders have big asses in which they tell time
The future time, you know, that's where that's where they're like their time glands are kept. They basically shit out time
You know that if spiders didn't exist time wouldn't wouldn't pass
So that's why god made tarantulas. Thanks before before spiders. There was no time
I mean technically there was a point where there was no time
So is there like a passage in the holy bible where it's like on the first day god created light and on the second he made
Spiders that's actually what it says
Spiders first. Yeah, we first wolf. What the fuck? Yeah, well he'd need time for existence
He can't make spiders if he can't see them
You have to make time first. He did have to make time first
You can't make light before you make time because existence is temporal
So are you saying that the reason that spiders look so fucked up is because god couldn't see what he was making yes, probably
Okay, that makes sense then
Retrieves another stone. He'll be too powerful to stop. He already is
How exactly did they expect to stop thanos who doesn't even need to set a holy bible bag and
Already has two of them plus thanos needs gomorrah to get the soul stone keeping gomorrah away from thanos is strategy 101
But because there's no time they hastily conjure up some no-ass plant
uh, I would imagine a big reason for why just trying to get him gomorrah to safety is never going to work is because
The more thanos collects the stones the more powers he gets
And it'll just be a matter of time before he finds it as opposed to them being able to prevent him from getting an additional
Stone that they could then use against him. That's actually what quill says. I think
Especially since didn't they say thanos sent gomorrah to find out where the time another time stone the soul stone was
Uh, so if thanos knew where to send her surely if he can't find her he can just go himself
Yeah, I don't think it's the end of the world. If if gomorrah had even died here
Like just she just shot herself in the head. I think thanos would probably have backup plans
Yeah
Possibly there was a way for her to find out the information then there was a way for thanos to find out the information that isn't her
Wasn't it a map where that she found out?
That's actually she said she found a map and she read it right and then she booned it or something
the map to look skywalker
Well, I was always just like why did she just straight up bid it instead of looking at it first?
I think that's what she says in the recording. Um, but yeah, uh
What was the other point you made thanos needs gomorrah
How exactly did they expect to stop thanos who doesn't even need infinity stones to be powerful?
So yeah, i'm but I believe quill's plan was to get the reality stone
And use it to destroy thanos which by the way if they'd gotten there in time to do that that might actually have worked
Because the reality stone seems pretty op. I don't know about you guys. It's pretty good
I mean they almost stopped they were really close to stopping thanos when he had um, all of them nearly
For three or four. I think it was four
Yeah, keeping some more away from thanos is strategy 101 but because there's no time they hastily conjure up some no-ass plan
I think it was a decent plan with the amount of time they had
Yeah
Also, it's just no time in quotation marks like how they don't have any time
No, they don't
But are supposedly on the run and hiding out from I guess the government but this apartment or hotel room is large as
This looks like a honeymoon. Not a couple on the lamp
What but I think vision probably has a decent amount of money. Yeah
Yeah, if no one knows where you are you're hiding
Like if no one knows where you are and that's why you're there
It doesn't matter how nice the room around you is if no one knows you're there
For all we know this is one room and one bathroom and that's it
like
Probably I would say that
That is what I would assume from looking at it
Yeah, that was a weird. That was a weird comment too. He makes a little weird comments
I think it's just because he has to make comments, right? You just have to find something
Okay
Romancing the stone also
They went from kind of maybe flirty to kissy face hotel buddies and deeply in love entirely off screen
I think it would have been better if we had more time with them. Yes. Yeah, that's fair enough
Look, this is not unbelievable though
I love this
Fucking mcu. I refuse to believe anything is an accident and i'm losing sleep trying to unravel the meaning of we will deep fry your kebab
Is it a promise a threat a guarantee a cipher key the sign is taking up way more screen space than wanda's face
I just like this the second I saw this I was like, yeah, jeremy's not been to scotland. He doesn't understand what it's like
like
They deep fry a lot there
That's the thing that happens if I can go to my local chippy and get like anything on them any deep fried
I like if I want
Do you think that the deep fried kebabs are the reason why they're so stupid that they'll throw?
um
What's his fucking jail?
Oh
Thank you. Looks yeah
They they've deep those fucking deep fried kebabs. They just deep fried their fucking brains as well
I mean I just the fact he says it takes up way more space than her face
Is he talking about the sign itself versus the size of her face?
Actually, yeah, the sign is about like I would roughly it looks like it's roughly the size same size
It's such a strange comment
But yeah, uh, it doesn't it's it's it's gonna be one of those things where they they have the uh secrets videos for films where they're like
Everything explained and then this is the thumbnail
It would help explain. It would just be another explanation as to did they have a um, like a
Like text that showed their location before this scene to establish that they were in scotland
I think they do have the the text for scotland. Yeah, okay
But it's it's clearly for all we know that sign is actually there in real life
Well, it was for the scene
What i'm saying is like it wasn't placed there for a reason. It was just that's a part of the set
Well the way they were filming so who cares
It almost certainly is do you think actually what if this was advertising to get america to deep fry their kebabs?
No, it's a it's a hidden message about killing minorities
Gotcha. I don't I don't quite see it, but the kebab
I think wait, wait, wait deep fry the jews you mean
No, clearly says kebab and that was the see that's the first of this stream. I think jay. You said he said all the time
Yeah, we got seven minutes before the stream started. That's true
Fair enough. Yeah, it only took a few hours to make a jew joke
How the did that alien assassin sneak up on an android because he's an assassin you dip
I love that he actually referred to as an alien assassin. That's
How did this alien assassin do something sneaky
How did etsy do anything in the assassin's grade game if vision had gone
Wait and turns and grabs the thing before it attacks him
He could have paused this and said how the fuck didn't the alien assassin managed to sneak up on this robot?
You'll be like oh dingy the way whatever
next
It stopped me from facing that's literally the only explanation this movie is going to give for why the two most powerful
Avengers end up needing help from some punchy fools like black
um
That that's apparently how it works. The film doesn't give us anything else
But that's not necessarily something you can complain about
At most I guess you can call it an inconvenience
But uh the weapon that the enemies have happened to make it so that vision can't use the power that makes him extremely opie
but um
Someone said it's about deep frying your family. Carrie Baggins
Also, surely uh vision has had the monster for a really long time now
I think they they know
That he has got it because they've done that research clearly so they would they will have brought weapons that are prepared to deal with him
right
There is the the comment that uh, they know more than the
They know more than we'd assume than nothing. They know more than nothing. Also, um, uh rags has given us
an excellent comparison to be able to see if cinema sins was indeed right and uh,
Looks i'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry you did that
Oh, sorry jay, sorry rags is usually what it snaps things. That's my bad
I didn't mean to say a while
Yeah, um, that's definitive proof that cinema sins. I guess he's right
We do have the same size as a face
But he said way bigger and I suppose you can say that's that's bigger. So it's on point
Are the two most powerful avengers end up needing help from some punchy fools like black widow and no longer captain america?
Wanda is hand to handing this henchman. She's a magic witch that fool. She's not hand to handing
She's uh using a telekinesis to prevent attacks over and over again
Do you notice how they don't connect?
Because she's just repelled america wanda is hand to handing this henchman
She's a magic witch that fooled all the minds of the avengers with false visions of awful futures
And then she blasts her away and then she blasts her away with this shit does she have to throw her mind powers at people?
I do think he makes like a decent point when he's bringing up the fact that she like mind-controlled people before
I would I would also I would say though that I I would imagine that if you were doing this
You would your attention would be occupied. I was about to say she could only mind control people when she gets the jump on them
She's never done it. Um
while like in the middle of combat
Like if you're just throwing blows at her that she has to block or else it'll potentially kill her
She probably doesn't have the presence of mind to be thinking about mind controlling
She's probably frantically trying to block the attacks that are coming at her face
And yeah, I don't yeah, I don't follow that point and then the whole throw her mind power thing
I don't I don't is he asking why she doesn't pick someone up and throw them instead of throwing a thing at them
That throws them across the room. Is that his question?
They always assume that he's making like I think she's making hand motions to use her mind powers
Hasn't she always done that? Isn't that how it works?
I can I can understand why you'd be like she's got mind powers. Why does she need to wave her hands about it?
Well, it's probably because it helps her concentrate. She's not Jean Grey. It's not the same thing
She doesn't that's never how they've portrayed it that she can just
I would say the reason is probably that it's a visual medium and we want more visual
Going on but it makes it much more interesting in terms of like certainly visually
But she always seems to have like it's like waves of power. She like blasts them out
Um as for like picking up things she'll always wrap them in the red crap, you know, it's not like she picks them up
She's picking them up via lifting everything around them if you know what I mean
Like she's of course your mind is your mind is part of your body like it's all physical
Yeah, it's kind of hard to explain i'd need to like show visuals but um
For example when she like lifts the guy in civil war
She's sparkle bending. She doesn't just
She doesn't just lift him
She's like wrapped him in the red stuff and then throws the red stuff up. He's inside the red stuff at that point
Am I making sense?
Yes, I got you there, you know, there's um
There there's actually a book series. Uh, eragon and the first
Yes, the first few books are here. The film is amazing. No, it's not it's the exact opposite of that
I heard it was better than like panther
It's like no, that's like your opinion. Oh actually, I don't know
Uh, yeah, that's they're both they're both pretty fucking awful. You can watch eragon again
It's been ages, but the the books are actually let's let's let's absolutely not watch that movie and i'll just
We will now that you've seen the wolf is like, yeah, let's play colonial marines, but we can't
Okay, we can we can laugh at colonial marines. There's no laughing
Eragon. Yes, there is
I watch death note
Why would you do that to yourself?
Because I walked into it and I it was early in the night morning and I was busy
early in the night morning
Right picture right that's the name of my band early in the night trying to explain this to an angry wolf
I need you to understand that eragon is a thing I brought up for a reason and the reason is that
Uh the way that magic where I like the way that magic is like explained and designed in eragon
It's very difficult to use and it's very dangerous because you like think of things and like this ancient magic language
But if you fuck up the words in your head
Then like then it does what the words actually are that you think of they don't do what you like want want to happen
So you a lot of it
So when you're learning magic you speak the words aloud
So that you don't accidentally think of something different than what you really want to have happen
You know, yeah, I think it's in like the third book eragon meets like this bumble fuck out in the middle of nowhere
Who just uses magic without saying anything and he's like, holy shit. Why the fuck you do that?
Yeah, like early on like when when you're learning magic
It's very important that you say it out loud and you use very specific words as to what you want to do
So it helps you to focus what you really want to have happen
So it's very very possible that she's using these hand motions to direct the power that she wants to do something specific
Rags, I love you even more now that I know that I am not the only person
That has read those books. I read eragon. Well, it's unfair because me and jay can't read so that's a bit
Well, that's true. Yeah, that's a bit bookist. Well, that's why i'm like biased towards rags
Rag I thought it was because I was I was handsome and fluffy
It's a bonus with false visions of awful futures. Oh, well, let's let's go back a bit don't cut
Magic witch that fooled all the minds of the avengers with false visions of awful futures at once
Why didn't you do that at once? She had to do them one on. Hey, look it's hell blade
A little bit a little bit. You have to throw her mind powers at people. I do like
There's something about that delivery that I find funny. Why does she have to throw her mind powers at people?
It's funny, but it's just she just like rips her brain out of her skull. It like shucks it at someone
Yeah in context. No, it doesn't make sense. But yes
That's fine
Why did cap need to make a dramatic entrance into this scene and why on the other side of the tracks
Why isn't he helping already? I find it funnier to point out that this
Uh hell blade decides to immediately skew her this random person who's standing there
It's like it could just be some old guy like her
She's trying she's trying to kill half the universe. She probably doesn't care. I would care about an oldman oldman a very
oldman
Like gary aldman. It's gary aldman. But uh
Why does she hate gary aldman?
Yeah, like why does cap need to make a dramatic entrance into this scene?
First of all, you could ask that about every single entrance for every single character
Does any character ever enter enter like on a segue or something?
Boringly, jeff richards does in iron man. He's he writes a segue
Oh, yeah, but that's not a villain entrance at that point. He's not quite the villain yet
You know
I wish he kept that segue like even in the final fight. Well, that's true cap is old
Someone someone just mentioned that little potato. That's that's true cap cap is an oldman. So i'm not even wrong on that
but um
Yeah, now I just have like resnov quotes going through my head because you mentioned gary aldman
He did way more than just that get your head out. Well, that's what I
Casual. Well, that's all I know of him
um
Bruce banner showed up on a moped in avengers. Oh my god, you're right
That was like the hilarious terrible entrance where he's just like
Wait, what do you remember it avengers bruce batter turns up to the war in new york on a moped
He's just like hey guys, and then he turns into the whole clock immediately after
Oh, I don't remember that
But uh, yeah
Is he asking why he wasn't helped? Yeah, why isn't he helping already? I don't know cap arrived there stood still preparing to catch a spear
You're right. That's right. He was in the dark night. I forgot
Rex why is he helping already? That's the most normal role. Gary aldman's ever played
He's like a straight up normal family man police officer person. So he's played some weird fucking roles
I just like love his like obnoxious russian accent whenever he's like screaming in black ops
Yes, and and the time it took both scarlet witch and proxima to figure out who it was
Either of them could have potentially won the fight while the other was distracted
Um, I think it was a fair bet for um, maybe app to have assumed that they'd be distracted
by uh
The fact that he was there. I don't know
It's um
I doubt either of them would have won the fight ever because scarlet witch can just keep pushing everyone away from me
Yeah, it's a pretty tough person to beat. You know, in fact if I was gonna surprise attack
I probably would have done it to both of them instead of just the one, you know, I guess they do surprise attack her as well
Audience applause break
Guns oh, yeah, this is this weird shit with falcons guns. They look appear out of his
Wrists or some shit
You slow it down. So the war looks the same though. I feel like he's just saying that guns should be redundant in these fights
Oh, he's saying like what's the point even having guns?
Yeah, in fairness. What's the what's the point of even having falcon because really?
Well, hang on. They stab one of these guys, don't they so bullets would work
Theoretically and bullets do work all the creepy things that attack
Wakanda so it should have the black panther spears
You should have wakanda bullets that when you attack it with somebody it's like a nuke inside the body
Listen black those I would much rather have a stargate spear
That's your opinion
These henchmen failed to get the stone they were sent after and they peace out to save their own skin
And i'm pretty sure even they know that thanos values the stones over his henchmen. I don't even think that's true
I don't yeah, I don't know the film
Everybody really liked the line where thanos says I take it the mall is dead
Because everyone's like oh he cares about where the squidwood died. He actually asks
That is actually kind of kids. Okay
He says the day extracted a heavy toll. So yeah, uh, no, I think if they told thanos that we nearly died
We had to exit. I doubt you would be like well, I have to kill you now because you didn't die getting the stone
That doesn't make sense. So just keep coming. So what the
Like a psychopath in that sense, is he is he honestly asking why they decided to bail out instead of die?
I think so. Yes, that's an interesting question
We could figure out the answer bailing out like this stay close check in don't take any chances
I mean he's not bailed out and he clearly has like
Nothing to say here. He's just he's just he's thinking with his ship
Who now?
Maybe maybe he's just applying that mentality to uh to everyone else
Wait, are you saying cinema sins is yes, but I think he's doing pretty well for himself
Yeah, to be fair. He's not said much wrong yet. Does anybody um, no, no, not that
Money-wise like i'm pretty sure cinema sins is probably making extremely large about somebody with this
Oh, yeah for sure. I think he would
According to social blade he makes something crazy like a hundred thousand a month or something
I was gonna say he's got to be a millionaire by now, right?
Oh, yeah without a doubt
Um, yeah, he's not doing did you were you being ironic when you said that he's not been doing well so far
Uh, I may I may have been being ironic
But there is there is potential there on skin
And i'm pretty sure even they know that Thanos values the stones over his henchmen
So what the fuck are these minions thinking bailing out like this stay close check in don't take any chances
We just wanted time, you know to figure out the whole having sex with a synthetic vibranium body thing
It's a lot tougher than you'd think I hope Thanos
No
Okay, okay
This is keeping count during all this disorder and chaos because I can't figure out how many are dying at first glance
But i'm sure he knows how to keep the death at half season
Wouldn't wouldn't you assume from that that he doesn't actually care about getting it accurate down to the person?
Yeah, like why why?
Yeah, I mean he knows obviously from the beginning Thanos is like there's no way we can know for certain
Until people will be hiding people might be on holiday on a different planet
You can't just it's gonna be tough to nail it is that guy johnson's
We've got a consensus here
What about pregnant people's exact motivation and it's not that he's like ocd and wants exactly have the universe to be destroyed
Like I said
If a wizard was like, oh you killed 56 instead of 50 out of 100. He'd probably be like that's that's fine
I just like to serve resources. He doesn't give a shit about like the exact numbers
I just like to interpret this scene as this is the death of shrek's entire kind
That's them. And that's why he's the last ogre. He had to go into the swamps because thanos killed everyone else in trek four
We see other ogres. Um
Those ogres are his offspring
We have oh wait, I forgot. I forgot. I forgot there was like an ogre
No spoilers, please I haven't seen trek four you shouldn't we have we have new memes
Um, we'll we'll see shrek four after we see aragon
And that'll be after we want to play
Well, luckily it's only like 80 minutes long so
Oh my goodness, yeah there is bull
Oh my god
Oh my god
People keep playing the kylo hair
Oh
These trees are gonna kill me
To finish it off
Um, never never stop being talented audience never stop
Uh, anyway, yeah, I gotta admit that this
Sorry, I didn't I didn't quite show it properly last time but the glove has nicholas here as his face
It wait what the first one is michael zero gauntlet jabs
Oh my god
So
Second one is insane
Yeah
These will all be posted to the efap memes thing on my discord after the thing don't worry guys
I can't figure out how many are dying at first glance, but i'm sure he knows how to keep the death at half seas
What's wrong little one the fact that thanos would ever have stopped on his kill quest for even a moment
Because of a cute kid is a big pill to swallow
Uh
Wasn't he just standing around?
Yeah, he's done at this point. There's literally he's his men are lighting people up to be executed
What else is he gonna do or anything?
And doesn't he spot here because she pushes one of the guards away?
Yeah, she's like fighting against one of the guards
That thanos. Yeah, that would catch my attention, too
I'd be like, huh, how's that kid doing little little shit?
This would ever have stopped on his kill quest for even a moment because of a cute kid is a big pill to swallow
Why is that a big pill to swallow?
Yeah
I could tell because i was gonna say if you're an evil
Soulless son of a bitch who's a huge guy. Do you see this little thing going like?
You'd probably be like, uh, look at that
I could totally see him being interested. You're quite the fighter gromore. She asked a question. That's it
She's displayed zero fighter characteristics. Well other than the the person she fought just now
Yeah, other than that
How do you how could he possibly have missed that?
Is this one of his deliberate mistake things that he does?
He just added he says he makes deliberate mistakes and he does but like just I think they just feller is my understanding of it
You know, i've made a few videos about cinema sins before so I feel like
I don't get why would you make deliberate mistakes though? Why would you want to do that?
So the video can be 20 minutes long
Such a I don't
She's inquisitive confused scared guileless, but a fighter. She is not clearly she is she becomes gamora who's like best fighter
Saf genocide scene illustrates a curious character detail in guardians of the galaxy when they told us gamora was the only
Origin last survivor of the zehoe beret people. Yep that
Unless someone has an explanation for that. That's just a continuity error as far as I could tell. Yeah, I don't know
Especially didn't see did she say that like her entire planet was destroyed in guardians
Did she was under the impression that her planet is destroyed when she talks to thanos, isn't she?
Now is now is zehoe beret her species or just like
a culture within that species or a country or a certain like a tribe or a
bloodline
Is that the whole is that the whole species because normally when you say the people it's not an entire species
It's like a country or an ethnic group god. Look how much she weighs a whole
852 gretts
That's interesting though cybernetic skeleton ocular and respiratory implants enhanced neurological system enhanced regeneration implant
I don't know that i've googled i've googled gamora species and she is a zen
weboris
Is according to the comics though, and this is someone else. I don't know. It's a comic picture actually next to it. So
Um, but yeah, no, uh, there are ways to explain this she could be like
It'd be awkward though exposition wise be like it says who you're you're the last survivor that she goes
That's what I tell people you're like according to the according to the mcu wiki sheet. That is a species
But um, yeah, I would say as far as I can tell it's just something that either they just didn't care to fix
Um, if your weight if your weight starts with an eight don't even talk to me
What if it's 80
Oh a little potato said oh wait, that would be an anorexic
The rusas implied that th
I don't know if this is actually from the film. Is this from the film?
Don't know if there's no one expected to know this is jay really
I don't know
I remember the trailer displaying the details. I can't remember if the film does but that would be another interesting thought
Let's go watch the whole film right now. Yeah, it could have been a red kind. Let's watch it live on you
No, we can't do that. It gets me. I want you to promise me
You'll kill me one other thing you could do just find a distant planet to live on lay low find a cave
Maybe find Spock and don't allow Thanos to ever get near you. Don't allow Thanos to get near you
Yeah, like that's if that's within your power then jeez
You can tell the power to stop Thanos then gosh, you can't just like shoot her now. Let's just go blow up the dreadnought
It's just like that. He turns up at this this mysterious cave and she's like no
Am I not allowed in this cave and she's like no
I didn't see a fucking door
Well, you don't have to be so mean the cave was unlocked I assume I could just go the cave was unlocked
Your cave door is wide open. I don't know you looked your mail outside
You have an address of yellow pages look it's about to rain. I just wanted to get your amazon package before
Your newspaper was gonna get wet
Movie characters think that a problem
This will be a bond if they swear on a loved one, but of course, it doesn't work that way cliche
Yeah
That's the thing that happens in other movies sure
Yeah, uh, she expected him to follow through. Well, hang on mate. He does follow through with this, doesn't he?
Yeah, it bubbles come out. He does. He does kill her. Oh, he tries
but that's not even true
and I was about to defend it even if it would be true because that's that's totally fine that he wouldn't want to kill her even
When he's told to promise because he loves it, but he does actually do it. So
I
Realize she has a hate boner of justice, but god damn what was she thinking?
She's the one that's been reminding others how powerful Thanos is which is why she tries to immediately kill him while he's off guard
I just like the phrase hate boner of justice for me. I'm gonna rename my channel just
Yeah, uh
By the way, it's a strange comment. He's making here as well considering she does kill him from
Like in in a manner that she expects to work as in she it makes sense to her
She stabs him in the the heart and knives him in the throat as well, right?
So yes as far as she's concerned i've done it and we can assume that that's actually always a way you could have killed him
But obviously he's fucking with reality. So
And as far as they know that he doesn't have the reality stone yet all this makes sense. So what are you doing?
I would just like you all to know that i've now changed my twitter name to hate boner of justice
Fucking deleted hate for the speech against I don't know
Hope you enjoyed your patreon
Oh, yeah, that'll go down too
premature self-reprobation you knew I come
I can't do it
So he assumed that the guardian ship would get the distress signal from the statesman. They'd follow it
They just so happened to run into thor. He'd tell them about the reality stone
And that she would agree to come is the only person who knows about the
Um
The so let's think the only way thanos would know they would come there is that he assumes they'd want to protect whatever stone is there
Or he could have asked a spider
That's true
But he would have he has to assume that they know that the reality stone is there
Which I think since they've met the collector previously
And the collector's one has it. I don't know
Yeah, well, it's been established that the the ancient monk guy he knows about the infinity stones. Who else knows about him?
I'm I'm willing to in in uh, except that it's
Thanos could have been waiting there for a long time depending on certain things taking place
um
Because there's no reason why he would have known that thor bumped into the guardians
That's the part if he knew that then this would have made sense or more sense
um
Because as much as there's a distress signal
That's not a guarantee that the guardians would find thor right someone's saying in guardians one they literally saw it
So what?
I guess the stone
Not the reality stone. They saw the power stone
The reality stone gets taken there in at the end of thor two
um
Which is after that remember something from thor two
I remember I remembered other things like natalie paulman gets the stone inside it. I remember that
I'm just I'm just impressed that anyone remembers anything. I don't remember anything from incredible hulk. That would be more impressive
The grenades are like little black holes
Oh, yeah, they look super op
A neat I remember when loki turned into captain america briefly. That was funny
I actually saw that clip before I saw the movie and I was like, I might watch it just for that now
Fairness that was the only good part of the whole movie. That was the highlight. Yeah, uh
I can't think of it being a an absolutely reasonable
Anybody got anything for this because I really can't think of why thanos would assume they would be there at this time
Uh to matt. Yeah, it's the matter of the time scale. How long would he have waited there been there?
so it does yeah, it's
that
He just like waited there for a few months and was like
Um, i've been really bored. I've been hanging out with benicio del toro
He just keeps him alive just for that telling me about his time on the last jedi it's been really shit
Like
Tell them about the reality stone and that she would agree to come here. This is
Possibly brilliant. He didn't even tell thor. He'd be coming here
He just told his minions to get the two stones on earth and meet him at titan
The only reason he pulls the oh, yeah, but thor assumed that he'd go for the next stone
Because it was he knew it was taking the thingy
So that's not unreasonable that part trigger here is because the movie knows it's going to undo the act and keep Gamora alive for
Oh, so this is covering his ass for the earlier sin then
Because he's now saying the only reason he pulled the trigger is because he couldn't kill her
But that's like matter as hell peter definitely thought he was going to kill her
Well, no, it says the movie knows he he
He can't kill her. So he's saying he's saying that he wouldn't have pulled the trigger if
But the movie wouldn't have the balls to just kill Gamora here which as if to imply they wouldn't have a kill gamora
it's like oh, but
well
His love for her and dope he's digging a hole isn't he further and further with this puppy dog nature
100 does not jive with his willfully pulling the trigger here. Is that a drag willfully? What do you mean? What do you what?
He absolutely did not want to pull the toes
That's such a weird point to make and keep Gamora alive for now
His love for her and dopey puppy dog nature 100 does not jive with his willfully pulling the trigger
Yeah, it takes him a while to pull that trigger
She has to like convince him there thanos has to convince him
Yeah, it never would have worked if not for thanos actually encouraging it like
Because he wouldn't have at the time like thanos would have stopped him. But uh, thanos was basically that kid on xbox live
He's like do it bro. Do it on me. One of the only rust
Rust with pistols only no, it's not even me. Yeah. Yeah, i'm 93 rafticas only
Intervention no heartbeat sensor
If you use harpy such you're fucking fag
Trigger here. Why do drax and mantis go back to normal when thanos leaves the stone powers aren't proximity based
But somehow the day I have no idea how the reality stone works. So any issues he brings up with them. I agree with
She did was only temporary
This is a hologram of ross whose physical body is in a completely different room somewhere in the country
And yet he's able to walk around this room like he's physically in this one
I think we're supposed to imply
assume that whatever ross is seeing right now is like a
cgi projected sort of room
On top of his room with all these guys every you don't know how it works
every time we get uh holograms in a movie
But how does it work?
It's like I think he's just like sort of realized hey, I can send this and people will be like, okay
And now he does every time he sees it explicitly explained
I think it can make enough sense. Have they never done this before? I feel like they must have done this before
I mean they've been in that room before yeah, but
Fully fledged walking around holograms. I can react and thinking to you look I get that that's that's pretty high tech
but uh
I mean you've got the nano tech earlier like isn't this just par for the course now?
This is another problem for the mcu their technology is getting to like extreme limits
But um what I watched the film this never stood out as something unbelievable. Well, it doesn't matter. Anyway, it's literally
The functionality of this is a phone call like who cares?
Yeah, hell he could have fucking showed up
He in a replica room with a virtual reality display
And if so, there should be a camera somewhere in here tracking his eye movements
Not necessarily if it scans the entire room and projects it to him and it scans his entire room projects it to them
That's kind of what I was trying to say. He would be looking at his version of their holocaust
You can face the right. Oh, yeah, someone brought up bath the thing in civil war. That's what
technically speaking is another version of this so
um, that's that's extremely ridiculous technology it projects your memories as like
move aroundable videos that you can walk in so
You know sci-fi sci-fi sci-fi way when he's talking to people, right?
No one in this movie should own a rickenbacker base and have it displayed on a floor stand in some kind of library
This guitar is the biggest lie the mcu ever told i've played one of these tell me congressman
Have you ever played a rickenbacker base better reference?
Literally, nobody. Jeremiah gonna nobody fucking cares that you play a guitar. Is he pulling a derrick savage?
I mean, yeah, I get the reference, but is this is it a reference though? Is there some film that this happens in? I don't know
Uh, it's it's like when people show up and they pull out a guitar. You're like, no, no, don't don't please don't no
No one wants to hear no stop. Don't do that
Go away
That's what I get. Yeah, nobody in chat's got anything. So I assume this is actually just him saying this so okay
Where's the fight?
Fucking bucky. Aren't we just gonna glance over the fact that's a running joke apparently
He says that every time bucky shows up
She's like, okay. Why you don't like bucky? I guess it must have been awkward in civil war. He shows up a lot in that
I like bucky
Well, you're fuck you I like him wait, are you implying that you don't like cinema sense?
Um, yes, that's just rude
What's this?
I like how he even colored his hands purple
I
Thought a stark shoulder missile from earth easily blasts a hole in the hull of this alien spaceship
Didn't we just establish that his technology is incredible?
And that was a sin earlier and now it's a sin that his technology is amazing
He launched a rocket at a wall of a spaceship. What the fuck did you think was going to happen?
Iron man broke into this place by laser it open. It's just metal by the looks of things
It doesn't look like it's any kind of special metal
Fortunately special special metal that makes you really smart
That's that you can only find that on wakanda
So are you saying this giant donut was built in an impenetrable forest?
Maybe where's the five prequel filled with the dota hips?
Fucking bucky
Back to the stark shoulder missile from earth easily blasts a hole in the hull of this alien spaceship
The hell is this spray stuff tony's using here to seal the breach in the ship's hole?
Nanomagic canned convenience. It's magic whiz and it's cheesy me off way to introduce a new care
It's partially convenient. Sure
I'll give him that one too
Not much
Character in the movie in the 19th film of a franchise and completely kill him off in an hour
I wanted more of this guy
Darth maul and ebony maul are now in some seventh circle of movie franchise hell where they were told they were special and maul
Their fates with maul flanders at the hades mall. So I say we take the fight. Um maul survives
Who's maul?
Matt maul. Maul survives in fairness. Oh
Bullshit wait, hold on that was supposed to be maul as in darth maul and he spelled it. M-o-l-l
Franchise and completely kill him. No, he actually did put see darth maul. He did so what's maul flanders then?
I think he just
Rhymed a bunch of shit with maul. That's supposed to be maul. Maul. Maul. Maul. Maul
Oh, yeah, because maul. Wait, so it's gotta be a joke then i'm assuming
I can't tell he's just rhyming shit. He sort of just decipher this be a board flat that's got Buddha as well
But um, yeah, you're right. Darth maul is not dead
It's still bullshit in fact
Well, it is bullshit, but um, he's not just not dead though. He got given like a whole fucking loaded
Lazy poorly written joke if this was my joke, I wouldn't have put it in
I mean I have to be like figuring the shit out every time that he makes a joke
Yeah, but which of these jokes would you have put in?
None of them because they're not good
Like so you can't you can't just be like cutting this one out because at that point you've got if you if you introduce that
Kind of standard you've just not got a video anymore. Yeah, but is that so bad?
No
Well it is for me because then I don't get to make a video about it. Oh, you have to make original content, okay
Hey, he actually has in fairness. It's just just people like to see him rip apart cinemas in this unfortunately fine do it
Like us when ebony maul are now in some
Movie franchise hell where they were told they were special and maul their fates with maul flanders at the hates mall
So I say we take the fight to him granted the ship you're on is going to him
And you haven't stated declaratively that you can turn the ship around despite being asked twice by strange
Maybe this is less of a choice than the movie or tony once
I just want to say they literally pilot the ship in this film. Yeah, they definitely do and um, he
Gives his reasoning. It's solid reasoning
Why fight thanos on earth when you can destroy and fuck up everything instead of fighting him on his own?
Turf so that they can just have they can controlled
Group v1, which is exactly what they do
Even was that a problem?
Granted the ship you're on is going to him and you haven't stated declaratively that you can turn the ship around despite being asked twice by strange
Maybe this is less of a choice than the movie or tony wants to make it seem your planet was on the brink of collapse
I'm the one who stopped that you know what's happened since then
I don't know has 50 of the planet multiplied and brought it back to pre thanos population numbers
I guess you plan on snapping the universe back to half its people every 20 people say this a lot
like it's so dumb because
All people will do is repopulate
And i'm just saying they're like, but could you just do it again?
Isn't that a possibility especially if it takes like many many years
Also, don't birth rates fall after technology develops
No, it is quality of life improves generally
But every 20 years, I mean 20 years is what do we call 20 years a generation?
Yeah, I mean there's there's ways around it people are people are at breeding age by 20 years
And um in fact not to mention that I don't know maybe people
It's going to be a weird universe considering every single living life form went through everyone going into dust
You know, I don't know
yeah, um, like the beginning of the next avengers movie will be strange but
Um years or so this seems so fucking pointless don't do this
I mean if it works for 20 years at least that's still something for thanos
I'm sure he feels happy that he wouldn't have to do anything for 20 years
Ultimately sisterly love is what causes her to give up the location of the soul stone and therefore the fate of the entire universe
She begged her boyfriend to kill her rather than let Thanos
He does understand that people are much more willing to let themselves die than people they love die. Or is that a new concept to him?
Maybe he doesn't love anybody like I I would ask him genuinely as a human being
Would you listen to your brother's life sister being tortured extensively knowing that you have to say one word to prevent it from happening?
I guess he wouldn't if he knew that it would say the word. I don't know if jeremy's been in the locate
I've been in like search and rescue and stuff. It's pretty tough to listen to people scream in agony and not to mention
There are people
It's it's pretty it's pretty fucking gut wrenching
There are people in this universe that would actually argue they would rather keep the loved one alive
Fuck the universe like that's to the point human humans get with love
So I just can't believe you're breaking this down like rationally like
Rationally, she should allow her sister to be tortured indefinitely. It's like
You know what you're not wrong
Let's win i'm getting a new hammer and thor 33 and a third oden told him his hammer was just something that focused his power
Now that's been forgotten and a hammer is important again
That's something that focuses power sounds important
I was about to say that's j made the same point in your video, right?
I did. Yeah, it's I love that. He just doesn't notice it himself like odin's like, hey
You don't need it for power, but it's good to focus your power
And then he's like, oh suddenly it's important again. It's like, I don't know focus sounds important
It's like i've never seen this video before ever and it was just like my knee jerk reaction to that
Is like, um, that didn't pass the smell test
You're gonna need more than one stupid eyeball, but you're handing him a fake eyeball
So he still only has one stupid eyeball. I thought that eyeball does work
So that was the point yeah, it'll actually
you know, we obviously have to give the passive like I don't fucking know how it works biologically, but
It is a an eye from space that rocket has so it's just assumed that yeah, it does actually work
It's a space eye space eye
All right
Some random computerized alien eyeball has a connection port that matches thor's flesh-based eye sock
So then he immediately acknowledges that actually oh
How could you send it for that and then send it for that?
You can't do both
This is a great free frame by the way
Oh, mine's probably different to yours
He's just looking off in like completely different directions with each of his eyes. I'm on the next scene
um
Connection port
This is a second marvel movie to waste I like that he covers that entire scene without sending the most ridiculous line
In the entire movie in my opinion where thor like puts in the eye and then he's like this thing doesn't work
Everything looks black when he has two eyes
Yeah, and and and there are plenty of lights around them whether or not there's no lights outside the ship. Wait, what other oh
Days of future past okay
Oh, yeah, that's true. Well, he wasn't wasted in either of these movies though
Yeah, I don't see how he's wasted in this movie or days of future past
I like I was just trying to figure out
I was just trying to figure out which one he was actually in because I was like
I don't remember him being in the mcu
This is like if you don't if you don't justify the the statement that he was wasted in this then people just have to sort of
Yeah, he was wasted. Hahaha. The people who agree agree people don't don't moving. Oh, that's all I feel like that's how these videos are designed
Well, yeah, here's a ding. Don't ask me why
He's petered inklage and he killed everyone. Anyway, who'll accept me? Let me do some math here 300 dwarves
I wonder if you can guess what his points gonna be guys
It's not half of them. Mm
Now why in the world would thanos not have killed only half of these dwarves?
Why why would that happen
Either because there are more dwarves elsewhere or because he doesn't because thanos specifically says that it's the greater good that's more important
Well, my assumption is that he actually wants to prevent these guys from creating weapons that can stop him
And then he precisely why the remaining dwarf
Has been he's has his hands melded together
He's been de-handed. He's been de-handed of course. We're here one is left. Oh, he's so condescending over this point as well
The funny thing is just like does he think this is the entire dwarf population? They just live in a foundry and that's it
Yeah, I
That seems unreasonable. I would assume naturally that this is just a place they work they commute here
Don't they have like fortresses and mines and stuff under mountains? That's what i've heard. They have a mountain planet
Multiplied by pi r squared. That's
99.67% of the dwarf population, which means he must have let 299 other dwarves on some other hammer building station live
That's all well and good, but how did she get out of the midair suspension thing that she was in?
Doesn't that thing make you for all we know it works. I mean, yeah, we could have had a scene where she like
Uh, I don't know lets a circuit attached to something and then it zaps it or she fires something out of it
thing
Yeah
The movie's telling us she got out
Um, but I suppose it would have been neat to know how
She is, you know, robotic as fuck. So I just assumed that she had something that allowed it. Yeah
She literally does come apart
Yes
Tense and purposes immobile. In fact, i'm kind of wondering how she was even able to kill that guy
Wind up and planty eggs in my chest or something and I eat one of you
I'm sorry. I do not want another single pop culture reference
I do i'm trying to say that something is coming really because there was absolutely nothing urgent about it by the sense. Yo
Can I explain it
What you were saying at all
In theory it could even summon the bifrost
Because why not Thor's gonna have to get to earth faster than a ship can take them somehow
So bacon the bifrost into this baby couldn't odin staff do that as well
Can't remember what spear sorry
Pretty sure he does it. I don't remember that he uses the bifrost
Remember he has to summon dark magic or whatever
spear is
Yeah, hang on. Wait, uh, what's his name heimdall sword does it too?
Well heimdall in fairness you gotta like put it in the ground
No, no, he does it in the beginning of this movie. Oh, right
Forgot about that
You're right
For people like he seems to be more writing the movie for them to try and turn my criticism on myself
I am not saying these things are in the film. I'm suggesting what we could assume
It's the whole point the name of you're just a hypocrite
It's a thing called inference as long as there's no information to counter it you can infer
but um
You know, I I actually agreed with him that it's a bit of a jump and maybe we could have seen how she did it
It would probably have improved it
Yeah, like i'm fine with that
Somehow we've agreed with him a couple like you guys are i'm not crazy, right?
Like we're not we haven't just shat on him
Yeah, some of them are a lot of a a lot of them are just fucking stupid or wrong
But some of them are reasonable. Yeah, I agree with some of these
I've already agreed with a couple of them
You could essentially like you could create
Pretty much like a whole youtube channel. That's kind of dedicated
To going over these points kind of did you you think that would work? I don't think it would work
It's possible. I think they'd make loads of mistakes
It would be really you down like an incredible studio in an original but you could probably do it
You'd need you would need an animal avatar to really sell it to people though
Well like a spider or something. Uh, spiders can tell the future so it's not really fair
Oh, yeah, that's true. If you ever get to choose
I just looked my notifications on twitter. I don't even know what this is
The person said I tried as a as an explanation. Give me one sec
Okay, i'm really curious now. I know I need to see it
I'm trying to get it on the stream first so they can see it. There you go
What the fuck is that? That's the Thanos car. Oh, this is the grill of the purple
Okay
All right, man
Thanos bend mobile you I mean I agree an attempt was made
I feel oh, wow
Just may as well throw this one in because why not but uh even did like the whole hellblade thing with only
Of his face. I feel like you should read this. Uh wolf
Oh, I should read this. Oh god
illustration of
That's amazing, that's great
I'm the first one to admit. Oh my god
He's bulb in the pack and that never really bothered me though because I knew I got the swagger
Genesis 33 seconds
Someone someone please send this to jared. I don't know how you
I don't know how you're gonna do it, but do it. This is amazing. I mean, I know Jared watches these efabs, but
That is incredible
I can't believe someone went to they even got the fucking the fucking black mark on the door
Oh my god, that's beautiful. I can't believe someone went through the fucking effort to make
Sure on Jared
Fucking put a time stamp
Dramatic and sky genesis
Oh my god, that is amazing
I'm just like reading it in Jared's voice
I'm the first one to admit i'm not the brightest bulb in the pack and that never really bothered me though
Because I know I got the swagger
beautiful
Ah, they forgot the ninja turtles action figures in the background and the skeleton
There's so much Jared law. It's kind of tough to fit all in one picture. Yeah. Yeah, you would have to like
It'd have to be like a 4k resolution incredibly detailed drawing, but at least he got the fucking burned door
Oh, yeah, by the way, there's a video we're supposed to be watching I think
Um, let me just
Okay
Cut that Jared into this baby and we're set. What are the odds of far flung planet moon? Oh, sorry
There's probably a point there
Somehow so baking the by-frost into this baby and we're set. All right. Yeah. Well, yeah
So anyway, I was actually gonna say that I actually do have criticisms of how easy it is to make that that weapon
um
But the only counter i've heard is just the it's impossible for most if anyone to wield it
Thor's like one of the only people that remain that can wield it. I don't know if that's
Sufficient. It just seems pretty easy to make the weapon, you know, like it requires
The forge to be active force of a star. Yeah, but it seems that on a good day for this forge that was normal
It does seem to be the power source that they use for the forge
Because I agree that that's a lot of power
But apparently that was just that was a normal day at this forge
Yeah, it's sort of like it's like the facility is kind of set up to do that
So, yeah, uh just seems you know
um
Oh wait, somebody something just said etri designed it did he
Was was stormbreaker made in response to thanos?
Like the blueprint or was it always around?
I
I don't know. I want to say it was made specifically for thor
Like what i'm saying is like did he make it because thanos has the gauntlet he was like I need to design a weapon that can beat that but the thing is you don't have any hands it's pretty difficult to you know
No, where did they what is with these people it's like you're writing the movie again. I said, maybe I have no idea
I know there's no line that says thor's good weather could use it. I'm suggesting ways that it could be possible
There is a line that says thor is one of the few people like that. Most people wouldn't be able to wield it when he uh says that
Oh, yeah, wait
So i'm fine
The guardians that they'd lack the strength to wield them and they'd kill them minds into madness or something
It looks like the movie's writing itself. I didn't have to do that. Actually
Designed against thanos thor said itself if anyone tries to wield it, uh, they would go mad
Yeah, and then rocket says, uh, is it weird that I want to?
Do it more now, right? That's that scene
But yeah, um, I guess my point is you know, how many other people could wield it and he has guardian
Good hulk could hulk do it
Well, hulk couldn't lift the original hammer. That's true. But I always thought that was more of a
Like some weird spell about worthiness as opposed to um
That's true like power, you know, like it seems like it's just a bit of an excalibur thing going on
All are exposed. Why can't you do it? Why can you do it the last jedi fans card?
It's not the same thing suggest what I haven't said. It's not a mistake. I would literally just ask you questions
So if I was to make a video, I probably would highlight this as an issue. Didn't I open with saying that?
Am I crazy? Can I say some along the lines of like the issue I have with it and then I carried on?
I think you said it could have been better explained. I think it's very convenient and easy to do
I mean I do kind of feel about that way about the entire forging scene. There's things about it
And let's be fair. We never hear about this thing before this movie
And it's not like we have to because um
I suppose they would have been providing all of the Asgardian weapons like the armor and whatever else they have
We can assume that relationship's been going for a while, but it would have been neat to have actually told us it exists
Um
Yeah, this wouldn't be in a video if I made it
because
You know, I love infinity wall, but I still think there's there's more issues in it than like civil war for example
for uh writing
But I don't know how you could have made a flawless film when you've got the this many elements flying around and someone's been tough
Like how do you make a reasonable excuse for them to defeat Thanos when you've got no backup from any other writers?
like um
You have to invent the reason that you can be defeated
In your own movie. It's pretty tough
So, uh, I don't hold it against them. I think they did a fantastic job for
The position they were in ryan johnson on the other hand. He was he was given star wars on a platter
They were like here's all your setups do whatever you want and he was like, they're all nothing. It's like oh
Okay
One of the odds a far-flung planet moon like titan would have air breathable by humans. So wait
Is that the only planet he's ever said?
Um
What about all the other planets?
Genuinely, I would have expected it's just sort of universal rule that pretty much fucking oxygen is just on every planet
Also, it's all of the aliens speak english. That's been like that's another thing we should say I suppose
Okay, guys, I got a quick thing to say
Has nothing to do with the video. Um
Well two things one, uh, I gotta leave for maybe about half an hour or so
I got to go pick up something for my sister
Because she's bedridden and shit. So well good, but luckily you guys will still be streaming for a good couple hours
Well, I mean I could what do you think? What do you think my uh, what do you think my response to that is going to be?
I don't know. Can you answer it objectively?
Um, no
No, I can't
All right subjectively then
No
She's not you calling your sister ugly
Yes, yes I am
Okay. Well fair enough. But well, that's the first thing but I will be back. You don't all have it man
That's all good. You you you'll come back when you come big
and the second thing before I go, um
I was looking to see if that timestamp was real
And I just typed in jared genesis rags to find it
and one of the videos that I found was um
You know that that fight scene between anakin obi-wan?
Uh, uh count duku in episode two
Okay, so there's a video where they put jared's face over count duku
Me and rags are obi-wan and anakin and mauler your yoda
And
And that's the whole video
It's called darth jared genesis versus jedi master mauler and wolf in the rags
Why has nobody made me aware of this video?
It's only got 85 views, but oh my god
It was made two months ago. I've never heard of this Jared even commented on it. It's amazing
Well, you know what while you guard wolf we'll we'll check that out
And uh i'll read super chats as well as a sort of
Oh, you get I don't know if it's a good intro for jay to the whole fucking
Jared lore, but oh, that's true. It's on him
He should have he should have watched every single e-fab episode three times by now
That was well, this will be going on for three of them
All all but the ones that jared was actually in
Um, but yeah off you go, man. Go. Go. It's okay. All right. See you guys soon
Who knows?
Um
Yeah, if either of you guys want to do anything specific we've got apparently half an hour to do stuff
I'm gonna try and get through literally every single super chat we've had up to this point. So
Sure. Here we go. Um
What seems to be the officer problem? That is a wonderful reference to rags from
Last episode? I can't remember when you said that right. Yeah, it was when you were drunk
Yay, but when I assumed something was wrong with you alistraza said hi rags
So hello
Um, prehorn da mola citoiti. Uh, I don't I don't speak welsh. I don't know welsh. I'll have to respond. I
I'm fine that there we go. Nailed it. Um
Infinity war you can't deny it's good. Jared genesis. I don't actually know Jared's position on infinity war. That would be interesting
I would uh, i'm curious
Facet said if everybody is alt right no one will be
Once they've accused everyone of being alt right
Who is adult right?
Um, what happened to calling is is it like calling someone right leading is just not enough anymore
Like because if they were to say they to to say someone's alt right means they're like an extremist I guess is that the point
Generally an alt right all the alt right is a somewhat loose group
But for the most part what they have in common is they want a white ethno state
Well, that's not something that I remember saying but you know
I feel like wait what I feel like anyone
Sorry, just to clarify for right I was saying as if they're implying I'm alt right that's not something that I would follow
Yeah. Oh, yeah. No obvious. No, none of us are alt right. That's ridiculous
I feel like anyone uh at this point
People who the reason that people say that is that
Literally, they just view anyone more to the right of them as the most extreme right as you can be
It's like the same thing happened with just like people calling anyone more left than them an sjw
Or that like just so many words have lost their meaning because people throw them around for no reason
Yeah, but now when you call people fucking alt right then
Fuck like that's got such a negative connotation now
Because it'll make people go your channel can get
Like shut down and your patreon can get taken away and you can get deplatformed because enough people say that you're alt right
When you're really not
I mean, it's like it's then it's like a scare word
Yeah, because people will it's happened on that subreddit
The uh that that shot was from people will call me alt right and then some people will be like wait
Like he is like because they'll be like, oh shit if you're going to say it so abrasively
Then people will be like, oh it must be true if you're saying it like that
Like nobody would accuse someone called fascist and I support autocracy and all sorts of crazy shit like that
No backing for it. But people enough people just lie about it
And eventually it might catch on with certain circles
Um, but yeah
It's just it'll never end. Uh, merry christmas but with women but anyway guys
on top of these
skull wheels honest dog and
Rages, what was the funniest rhino milk green milk is one of my favorite scenes in the saga or ray killed han mines
Number three, no offense since since they didn't know you
Pretty sure he's okay with it at this point
um
Which is the funniest? Oh, well the the funniest has to be the one where me wolf and apa bend almost died listening to uh
Patrick williams. Have you seen that? Uh jay
Uh, is this the one where he said? Um, this is my favorite edition
Yeah, and we just lost our minds like
She just didn't see that one. I think i've seen all the ones where you covered patrick. Oh, he's wonderful. I like seeing him covered
Yeah, it's a pity that we'd have to search through his library to find some more things to cover
But some of his videos are just like i've not even seen the films he's covering or he's doing more a conceptual thing like uh
Talking about the shots a director uses where it's just like most of the time i'm just like that's true. They do use those
Doesn't you have a second last uh, jedi video you haven't
Oh, we did we did two of his last jedi videos, didn't we?
Or am I crazy? I thought we did he didn't he did another star wars one, but it was about the camera work in star wars
so
Um, so it was all good
Well, I loved your infinity war review thumbs up. Thank you space balls is a better star wars film than the last jedi
There are some jokes in the last jedi that feel like they were taken from space balls. That's the weird thing
Merry christmas efap boys. Keep being great same to everyone on the discord except cb who was wrong about sandwiches bilbo baggings
I mean, that's you can't say that everyone has their own opinions about sandwiches
recommend the animes
haiku and megaloboxing both awesome sports animes also unbridled praise dragon super ball brawly wen
I don't i'm not an anime Poisson
No, i've seen a couple of them. Um
Well, what animates have you seen rags?
Samurai champloo ghost in the shell full metal alchemist
Um
Brotherhood or the original one?
This two full metal alchemist animates, right
Yeah, i've seen the movie. I saw second gig and I saw standalone complex and i've seen a rise
I've seen one punch man fma brotherhood code. Yes
I think i've seen another two. I usually remember referencing five, but I've forgotten
I've seen some just not enough. I am so sorry. Um, but yeah
If you have anime recommendations, I pretty much
Smiler owl is my filter. He'll decide on which ones
I should put my time into because i'm usually trying to get through movies and tv shows for the most part because they like
Fill up most of my references. Um
Greetings mauler. Hopefully you can wish me a happy birthday as I travel all the way north of edmundton canada for business
It'll probably be better when I watch the last jedi from last year. Well
happy birthday chemist web
Is sort of is chemist a first name?
I can't be a first name, right? Uh, well, he could maybe he's uh, maybe he's from like a pokemon game. Oh
And they would they would have like electrodes and volt orbs and stuff wouldn't they
um, oh wait chemist what maybe
What would a chemist have
I feel like um, like grimer and and muck would be too like the chemist wouldn't have that
Did I say muck and ooze?
There could be a pokemon called ooze at this point. I don't know. I don't know the pokemon it's been eight years
He has a pikachu
Just got here. What did I miss?
You missed spiders tell the future you've missed everything all the memes at least we got to see women in christmas. That's true
Uh meant to send this two weeks ago. Glad to see the band back together been catching up on all the old efaps and
Tdw podcast to fill the void between days. Also. Love you wolf. Now do another podcast so I can donate directly
We while I will throw that on a we should ask him that once he's back i'll put wolf podcast question mark
And we'll see what he says
I'm broke because of my mustang but here take my money. I love when you guys get together. Oh, well
We we love it too
The cover, you know and even when jay pops around it's not even so bad. Right right jay
I'm, i'm, sorry. What I was on reddit. Oh, I was saying you're going to have around too. No. Oh
Uh, I wish I wasn't being so vacant when you said it's okay
Have you watched old videos from confused matthew?
I've only seen one video from confused matthew and it was in relation to checking out what people thought of the force awakens
I don't know his channel very well. I'm afraid
Uh clone of kylo in episode nine confirmed his name is kyle mccarthy
I mean
Anything could happen in episode nine. I wouldn't be opposed
Apparently mumkey jones talked about the drama between quinton and me yesterday. Oh, I uh, he did
Briefly, it's kind of interesting. I can talk about that for a second because obviously
I I saw it. I left a comment on his video as well. I was trying to see if it sat in any response
Um, but basically he's he's talking about how
quinton
was supposed to
Uh, come on, they did their interview or whatever and then they're sorting it out and it's going to be released soon enough
but then mumkey just casually says do you know that he um
He and rags had something going on and he apparently lied about rags and then they sort of move on about it and i've said that um
We would come on to his podcast if you wanted so we could talk about what happened. Oh, yeah, absolutely
but my comment
only got two likes and it's
fell into
Obscurity, you could try commenting if you want the video i'll give you the uh, the link
Uh, because I don't think he has a twitter anymore pick up band, so I don't know how to contact him
but yeah, you know if anybody
Was wondering whether or not me and rags would actually be up for it. We would um
Oh, yeah, absolutely
I think it'd be fun a crossover of the state of the youtube and efap. Why not?
Uh mola just say subscribe to pewdiepie and then you're all right. Oh don't even need to do that. Apparently
Shapiro is an aryan name. But anyway guys
Just popping in to drop this you guys are hilarious and yes rags eats minorities for fun rags seriously
What I've told you several times about eating people
I haven't eaten anyone
I mean like not I always I taste people
Hmm
I don't know about that
That's disturbing. Hey wolf ralph the movie maker
Featured you ranting about justice league in the beginning of his video on the film that came out yesterday
He did but it wasn't in any way a negative thing by the looks of things. I was
When someone said ralph the movie maker referenced him. I checked it out and i was like, please please be nice for once
Please don't be like oh this guy like hurts the movie. But uh, it seemed like ralph hated justice league quite a bit as well
Um
Merry christmas you lovely folks mola
This is for your christmas present fallout new vegas and all its dlc and for everyone else you have my thanks and for those
This those who've played it. What's your favorite dlc?
Either of you guys played fallout new vegas
Uh, i've played it for 30 minutes. I love it. It's one of my favorite games
I literally just started it well one of my favorite games of all time
I was gonna say I have it and I need to play it eventually i'm pretty sure I have it
Um, but yeah, I only ever hear good things about new vegas apart from didn't a video come out recently
Oh, no, it was um, I hate everything put out a podcast where him and his friends were trying to talk about how
Uh new vegas isn't as good as people say it is
Which was interesting they were mainly gunning for the um
I think the the amount of bugs that are in it. I
Cannot remember based on the fact that i've only ever heard it just verbally related completely. I would believe it's not actually that good
It's it's it is a very it's a very good game
Um, it's got its flaws. It's a little dated
but I think it's still
Really really good like I could I could still play it like i've gone back and played it
Yeah, I hear that it just needs uh patches or you know mods
Yeah, and there's tons of mods for it. There's fucking tons of mods for it
um
Yes, uh, i'm actually curious as to how you decide what is worthy of efab is there a criteria by the way
I've been a fan of you guys for a year
I usually try and watch the first
Portion of a video and see if it can work like I haven't I don't know what's going to happen in the rest of
This video now outside of what I saw in jay's video on it. Um
We watched the joseph anderson ones ahead of time
Because I was shocked to see that they were actually as bad as they were but then stuff like major lee's video like i'd only seen
Five minutes of it and I was like, oh this will be fun
uh
But like criteria complicated there, you know, because there's the idea like why don't we ever cover a video
That's like really well made on here. And I don't think we would never do that. Like that might happen one day. Um
I just don't know the context in which we would do it and I don't know how it would work would we be like
Play it pause it say we agree then play, you know, how would what would we do? I guess we could elaborate on why we agree
but um
Yeah, it's it's complicated. There's not really a criteria to be honest. Um
Tell us I need your help with the conundrum. You see I acquired my wife when I was 16
She is 14. I'm now 25 years old. Is it weird to keep my wife or is it okay because she's
She's grandfathered in I do not understand that at all
Say say that one more time. I can help you out
I acquired my wife when I was 16. She is 14. I am now 25
Is it weird to keep my wife who or is it okay because she is grandfathered in?
Well, she's 23 now, right? What does grandfathered in mean? What?
Well, they're just saying she's she's 14 now
No, because they're two years apart. So now is waifu's 23 and that's perfectly fine
I don't know if it's a meme
I'm assuming it's some kind of weird. I don't know
We just say we we we nod and agree
I don't know. What does she's grandfathered in mean?
Oh
Grandfathered in means that when a rule is applied to something that's kind of retroactive
It means all the things that it applied to that happened before the law took place are exempt under the law
Oh
Like if you ban like if you ban the sale of like a certain kind of firearm, but you've already purchased it and you own it
Then it's legal for you to still have it. It's grandfathered in under the new law
Well, um, I mean, yeah if you're 25 and she's 23 that should be fine. Yeah, fucker
Houston productions one brown table vids on tlj are bad. Well
We got those two and then we got shawn's video
Jenny Nicholson's video and a couple of other people including uh
Reality punch studios. I think it is
The thing is like you guys don't want us covering the last jedi every episode or every other or even every like
Three I assume
It's kind of hard for us to tell exactly how long
Was that sorry? I'm sure there are people who want that. Well, I mean you gotta get some variety, but I don't know
uh, how much people would how much of a gap people would actually want but um
You know
We figure three episodes of things that aren't tlj would probably be nice before another tlj or even more we'll see we'll see
Um, oh good, i'm only 20 minutes late another 20 to go until the first video dissection good to have a new efab
I've have seen the other ones three times each and they were getting a bit bored. Oh
Just infinite memes
Is the gimp rhino
Sinsins will you milk him? I can't it's a spider now and even if we were to try and do it
He would see it coming because he could see the future. So
No, that's not possible. Um, did you know fennec foxes are
Legal pet in the uk
legal fox
Oh, it's like a little it's little foxes with the big ears. Oh
They're legal pets apparently
I didn't realize that are there laws for like
could you
I'm trying to think there are things that if they're classified as dangerous, you need a license to own
All the times if they're like exotic pets
That is very interesting. Once when I was in germany I saw
A lady on a tram with a fox
So make of that what you will we shall make of that what we wish to make of it. Um
I still think the right opinion was a dope guest. I mean we will be having him back if he's okay with it
um
We'll figure out when you know, like I said if we cover an eventual eric taxon video that's talking about how I don't take criticism
uh
Having tro guest on that would be hilarious, but I don't know if
If those two are friends, maybe tro wouldn't want to do that. It's completely up to him
Well, he was friends with quinton
Yes, so he could be friends with allegedly rags allegedly they're friends
Uh, i'm, so happy you're roasting this hack fraud. I hate sort of a sin so much
I just want to stick to my two index fingers into his urethra
And then using my thumbs for leverage turn his male member inside out like a tube sock
That's you know, I can think of the channel you might like it seems excessive
I was about to say do you are you aware of sin sins?
Here's a channel on youtube that uh responds to him regularly or semi-regularly. I suppose. Um, I i've gone
I'm trying to respond to him less because I don't like being reliant on one other person like one individual's content
I have
Recently in the last like couple of months. I have made
like
four five videos on him
Um, the people is that what people mostly want do you find in your audience?
Um, they are of the last couple of months my most like some of my most viewed videos are not in response to cinema sins
So there you go. Is that wait, is that a good thing or a bad thing?
I consider that good because it means I can branch out. I want to branch out and like
I I clearly can because people are still watching me when I talk about other stuff
Why did wolf say what the fuck?
What are you doing wolf? Also? Yeah, so yeah, if you guys don't already know this is the halfway promotion, I guess
That's sin sin's channel. He uh, he does what we're doing right now. So if you enjoy this then you know
It kind of makes sense to subscribe. I think yeah, but he's a specialist
Yeah, he does it even better than we do it
with florid
Oh, I mean he's I mean he's got autism, but yeah, that's it
Can't still ban you from patreon. They will ban you from patreon if you say oh you want rags. Mm
well
I've been I've been getting some new info on this stuff
over
during the stream like matt christiansons tweet about it and nuance bros because
Patreon called some of these guys and they had conversations about things. Oh, yeah. I've heard about that really weird
So yeah matt is saying
Let me scroll up and get it. So matt christianson whom you all should watch and subscribe to said
I just spoke with jacklin hart the author of the sargon response statement from patreon for 30 minutes
I am somehow even less confident in the platform now. We'll report back with a video by saturday
Unfortunately, i'm not at liberty to release a recording of this conversation
But I will provide you with as much detail as possible
TLDR patreon is explicitly not pro free speech
Not pro free market in their terms of service enforcement is subjective by design
In another interesting tidbit patreon is watching my live streams and joe rogan's on the issue
Cool. I'm sure they're big fans. That's uh
Worrying, isn't it?
And nuance bro within the hour said nuance bro is a great channel
You should watch them too. Uh, just got off the phone with patreon
I insisted on recording the conversation
But they said they wouldn't have the convo with me if I recorded it when I explained the context of sargon's comment
They said well, it wasn't just this one incident and alluded to an earlier 2017 incident
When I asked for the specifics of the case
They said they would email me after the call which doesn't help because context is everything and I can't respond to something
I have no info on
If it wasn't the only reason they should have explained that in their post about the incident
And then nuance bro posts later. Oh, no, they didn't they just emailed me this
They are citing sargon's incident at vidcon
Are you fucking kidding me a bullshit article from mike? Yeah the one with anita
What did you do there?
Absolutely ridiculous. Also, I don't even know what they're asking for me to look for in the youtube video
But he didn't do anything there, right? He just sat correct. He sat there
Anita sarkisian verbally berated him from the stage and they're citing that as a reason why sargon was booted from patreon
I'm not making the shit up. That's this is stuff that they emailed to nuance bro, and he's putting out on twitter
And they're using the bullshit hit piece from my the mic
Well
Uh patreon and not I mean, I don't know if it's the same for you rags
But I have a lot of people on patreon basically saying they can't support what patreon in general now
Anyway, yeah, i've i've lost some I people have told me that they're pulling out and they can't and that's totally fine
I completely understand and once I get back into the videos and um
Into the swing of things and once a stable alternative pops up i'm switching that day
like i'm
I'm ready to be gone. Yeah, because subscribe start going through a bunch of problems right now as well
Oh, yeah, it's all it's all it's fucking it's a
Frickin cartel. I mean sword and scale are the fifth largest content creator on patreon. They pulled out
Uh, there's a channel, um
With 1.1 million subs and they pulled out of patreon their what's their name? Um
Uh
Any second to look for it
A
Scrolly scroll
but there yeah, they made a
They made a channel. There's a channel with one point one. Yeah wrangler star. They have 1.1 million subs on youtube and they left patreon
um sam harris left i'm pretty sure that dave reuben is right on the cusp of leaving and so is peterson, um
I'm gonna leave once a watson alternative pops up i'm i'm jumping ship too
um, and the fact that they're like sending emails to people and getting into voice calls with people is
It's if to me it feels like they were planning something like this and this is just they're trying to enact it now
Yeah, it's just their excuse to
Get rid of people who aren't pro political correctness
Um, yeah, no, it's um, it's a shame and it's just called in loads of fucking issues now
All over the place for so many content creators when
Yeah, they just it's two is the baseline is hypocritical
Like there's people who are still on patreon that have done way worse than more sargon has done. So oh, yeah, absolutely
It's it's a I mean, it's like uh matt said their terms of service is subjective by design
They want to have that as an excuse so that they can get rid of anyone. They don't like
Sargon is just a big figurehead, isn't he? He's not like
The worst but he's like the the big one that people know about
Oh, yeah, he's for a lot of people represents that group
Yeah, he's he's anti-political correctness. He's pro free speech. He's I mean he's a classical liberal
He's he's just he's very reasonable guy
But well the chat won't agree with you on that one. I don't think well, they can they can disagree
But I don't think there's there's really no positions that he holds. I think are extreme in any way
I mean, I I wouldn't say I know enough about him to agree or disagree with that
but
I've seen a couple of like takedowns of him, but I have no idea whether or not they would be
Biased or like, you know if they were taking that context watch his stuff
I've watched a couple I've watched a couple of his videos, but I don't really enjoy them like I
It's not what I really want to spend like
My time doing there are creators I prefer
Yeah, so he's very
He's got a huge amount of people who really like his content and loads of people on the other side of the fence, uh
But he's been made the poster boy for
Whether or not patreon can be trusted now. So he's going to be on people's minds as a topic
Because of the fact that they've done this like this is the thing. I don't even know that um
There'll be people who are pulling out of patreon that may or may not have ever seen content from
It's just because of the principle
they don't like the principle it's uh
No, it's not something they want to support and that's that's basically what the the
Thing is and it's relevant because me and rags and jay actually and and if wolf decided to get it back up again
We're all people who like patreon or at least use it to support our channels. So
It's complicated and unfortunate and yeah
I'm more curious to see how this all unfolds and what we end up with
If there'll be alternatives or if patreon will roll back the decisions
I don't know if they've gone too far to ever do that as in like they wouldn't want to be seen as someone who
Undo these things, you know
I feel like if they undid this they would just piss off the people who agreed with it and they wouldn't fully like redeem themselves
In the eyes of the people who didn't sargon said that if they reinstated his account, he still wouldn't he he'd close it
Anyway, I wouldn't expect him to carry on in there because they've done it already
Yeah, and they're kind of at the point where no matter what they do at this point. They've already played their hand
Like they've made their move and they've made it known that they're not just sketchy at this point. They're just outright
They want to get people that they don't like
Off and they want to essentially rob them of potentially rob them of their livelihoods
Because that's what they'll do that's what these people do and like they don't like your politics if they don't like your opinions
Then they want do you they don't want you to?
Have your livelihood. They want to deploy on the clips of jack conti
Specifically talking about that. Oh many like he was on the ruben report talking about it
Like he explicitly was saying if you're a content creator and you want to have these
Discussions, then you have absolutely nothing to fear and nothing to worry about
And we would never take you down for having that stuff to die and you know, here we are
Oh, I hate planet earth this timeline so he was making like 12 grand a month from patreon
And just like that no warning. No email. No call. Just boof. It's gone
You'd think they if they were doing this from a position of they want to make
Things better they could have told him like this is your final warning
From what we found do this again, and we'll cancel your count because you could at least then be like, oh, okay
But um, that's part of that's part of the principle problem, but anyway, I will go back to um,
Two super chats. Will there be a just write seven basic questions of narrative drama efap? Um, that's actually
You can find that on me and wolf doing it on on his channel
It's called, uh molar and or dishonor wolf and molar against just right or something like that
But I think we'll cover it again on here sometime
Because it's quite the interesting video in terms of um,
I don't know mental gymnastics, I suppose
Uh, what happened to the acting male stream was it conflicting times?
I know he wasn't able to show up. Then is there any chance he could show up?
I think he's trying to say act man and um
Wolf did explain it that he was unable to show up and then we weren't able to
Do some form of a reschedule. I think that was the last stream wolf did before he took his break. So
Shame. Yeah, you probably want to set it up again in future sometime. Maybe
Um, hey molar. I watched every your very first video dark descent versus machine for pigs last night
You've come a long way also efap linkara, please
I mean, yes, that is a really old set of videos that are interesting to compare to my new ones. But
As for linkara, like I said up most we could play that section for the memes
It's kind of funny, but I mean it's not not much to cover I would say
Um, have you guys played speck ops the line? If so, what do you think about it? Have you guys probably heard of it?
I haven't played it. I played it. It's neat
Oh act man calls himself acting male. Okay. I don't know that I really don't watch his channel
either
Um, but yeah speck ops the line was was cool. I found the mechanics a little boring after a while though
But I thought the story was neat and the comments it was making about um
Things I will just say things. Um, if you're interested to do the prequels
I recommend sf debris video about lucas hero journey and rest. He has interesting take on decisions. He made the
I think there's gonna be a lot of videos. I have to watch in prep for the prequels
Anakin aim duku's head thor sucks
sw three greater than infinity war
I'm gonna say I agree. I have no idea what i'm dealing with there. I was off by five minutes. God damn it. I mean
I think you guessed we'd be 40 minutes before we started and we were like 35. I'm so sorry
Gotta go eat supper. Don't efap too hard while i'm gone
It's been a full on hard efap today
That reaction is why I always hesitate to tell people i've seen neither harry pot
Oh, yeah, I did read that one out half of america is erica de girl with followers
That's probably referencing when I was talking about. Um, just in beaver I imagine
um
Thanos is daft plague is confirmed. But anyway guys beautiful. Hey guys big fan of it
Enjoying the efap keep up the good work and hopefully this video makes mola do his evil laugh
Oh, I didn't know I had a lethal laugh might be an impression
um
I was gonna say by the way because we could we could definitely talk about it
But I guess i'll do a reassurance. Um for those who don't know i'm putting out a new video on christmas
It's gonna be long. It's fully edited and more is happening. So
I am making content for people who feel like i'm not making content just
Clarification. I don't know if you want to make any kind of comment on that as well rags in case people are consumed
I should i'll try to have it out
for the morning of the 22nd
Mm-hmm
There you go. We got videos on the way is the point. How long is this how long is rags to read?
Oh, it's gonna be long like hours
Hour
It's gonna be probably over an hour. Well, there you go. There's stuff on the way absolute guarantee. Um,
I'm putting out a video then and new year's eve
But the new year's eve one's different from the tfa series and the the second part is already on the way working on it
This is all on the patreon. I throw updates on there and obviously
If I one day do the subscribe stuff thing i'll just do updates on both of them. I guess I don't know
We'll figure that out down the line. Uh, do you guys share the profits from the super chats? If no, why not? Uh,
Yeah mauler. Well, I mean I just you know
No, that's fine rags. If he does his streams he keeps the the the channel income he gets same for wolf and uh
Yeah, I mean, you know ultimately even I would consider rags and wolf co-hosts
But if they were to be unavailable
Efap would continue because it's mainly like i'm just trying to bring people on and do this thing. Um
Yeah, like I think you said you're gonna stop streaming again on you once you've got your yes, I can stream
Yes, and I will happily jump on them if you would like me to and then
It's the same for wolf as well. Like I think he's starting his backup
once I think in the new year, so
You know, it's it's the kind of thing we would just do our own channel sort of stuff
And I try and sort out all of the technical stuff
Well, I just only ask them that they show up. Um, and obviously if they don't want to they don't have to as well
It's completely up to them
And then we have guests like time time traveling spiders, whatever it is
That's that sort of shit
Just saying spiders. I can see the future
Time traveling spiders is the same thing if they can look into the future. You may as well be traveling. Let's be honest
Because they can't go into the park. It's totally the same time
Uh, this is the most important point that's been brought up yet. That's another super chat that wants us to cover link horror
People really want us to cover that a new lego movie song. Everyone's a nazi. Everyone's a fascist where we disagree
Everything is sexist. That's that's wonderful
Everything's racist when it's about me, you know, you have to squeeze that in but you can
Um, wasn't that song a commentary on how awful society is though in the lego movie it was almost implying that um
We're encouraged to
Just treat it as though everything's fine. Even though it's not
Yes
And a lot of people did take it as a dumb song that was encouraging that mindset of everything's awesome. It's like I think
I mean it's a kids movie but
Apparently I've always felt the lego movie has a couple of things to say that slip under the radar if you know what I mean
Yeah
The second one's coming out pretty soon, isn't it?
I'm not sure how I feel about a second one. I don't think the film needed a second one, but hopefully it's still good
Um, I never watched any star wars
But here's an idea to fix the force and ray and every million force users one is so special
They learn everything quicker and have super force said special person would die in a few weeks from how powerful the force is in them
I mean
I don't know if it makes ray die
I was gonna say she'll be dead soon then right?
uh
You know, they could still do that. Um
Yeah, I would just fix from the ground up avengers four
is fallout 76
I don't I don't know about that one graphics card is a cuisine art. Nobody expects the british sin acquisition
Nice thanos represents socialism because of his adidas chin
I don't know how to respond to that adidas chin
Every frame of software programming every frame of getting distracted just like jared
I'm pretty sure this is this is the point where we were trying to figure out what graphics card I had. Oh, yeah
Thanks for watching this insult interlude. This is why you should never do a cinema sins video
There's many arguments for that
This arguing is hilarious. Merry christmas guys. That must have been the graphics card. Absolutely. No, wait
What was the argument wolf and rags were having I forget?
It was um
There were a few in this stream. I feel like already. Okay. I've completely forgotten. It's because the elevator music it it's convinced me to forget it. Um
Oh, someone's asked in an actual thing. He wants to take on the whole patreon thing. So you've got your answers for that already
There you go
Infinity stones are implied right click start and click device manager. It should be able to display adapt
So there you go. This you could definitely tell through the super chats where we are
It's pretty simple. You're toxic because you don't agree with him. Just that they have no principles or consistency the hypocrites by nature
There is no logic in the philosophy or behavior
I can only assume that's about eric taxon. Maybe i'm not sure but uh, I mean, yeah, i've met those types all the time
Speaking of spidey, what are your thoughts of no mention of uncle ben in homecoming aka the reason why he's a superhero
We don't need to see it. How many times have we seen thomas and martha die?
I actually thought it was cliche when um
We saw thomas and martha die again in batman versus superman
They have the quick flashback and you even see the pills fall to the ground and at that point I was just like
How many times have I actually seen?
Batman's mum and dad die and the pills fall to the ground
Is that in the comic it must be in the comic because I feel like somebody's
Getting it from somewhere. But um, I thought it was great that they didn't show uncle ben dying again because I kind of
Think I might have started finding it funny. It's uh, it's a subtle
um
Subtle reference to the the liberation of clams everywhere and I get that people will be like
But now we don't know how he became a superhero and it's obviously a reaction to the fact that yeah
We've had two major franchise movies for spider-man
But have both ended
Like you all know
And I don't know. I thought it was clever that they were like instead of doing an origin spider-man movie. We will do a
just continuation we'll move on because
You can assume what spider-man's history was but uh because of all the stuff we've had already but
I can understand why people would have been annoyed about it. The pills killed batman's parents. They slipped on the pills
Marvel's parents didn't just die
They were murdered
That's actually true in this case
Yeah, don't be hyperbolic at that point
Marvel presents spider rhino into the milk face
Watch it
Can you imagine a rhino with six legs?
Spiders have eight legs
Yeah, well could you imagine a rhino with six legs? He's asking a completely different question jay jeez
Uh on the note of spider future sense all spiders have microscopic hairs and fibers all over their bodies
This allows them to detect minuscule changes and air pressure and vibrations around them giving them a sixth sense
Well, there you go
It sounds like that sounds like the feeling of touch. That's the sense we already have true
But it's like super high
Super high it's the 12th sense
It's like daredevil saying that he doesn't have an additional sense just all the same senses, but good aside from sight but you know
You know
I never like cinema sins for a smart ass tone. It just makes him sound like he thinks better for everybody
I mean you could say that about me and rags to be honest
Yeah
But yeah, but yeah, but ours is satire
Yeah, ours is okay because it's not totally real 100
It's totally a character
I finally learned how to super chat after 10 efaps. I'm a smutty boy
Wonderful. Am I the only one who was annoyed about cw saying layer and han were on a mission in empire?
Cinema wins saying they're on a mission in empire. They were just fleeing the empire the whole movie
um, oh he was trying to compare it to empire, I guess so
You know, like we shouldn't be complaining about the b plot in canto bites if we're not going to complain about
The best bin plot if you will, but there are so many reasons why that's just not
Comparable because yeah, they're not on a mission. They're just running away from the empire. Um, hey i'll be right back
It's all good. I love your channel. We're looking forward to tfa video. Love to see videos where you perform surgery with a butcher knife
Beautiful that's I don't know. I don't know if i'd recommend that though. Are you doing nefap on cinema sins video?
I hope you finish your stream before 2019. We're getting there
Um, I love what you guys do. You should also watch linkara's review. See there's another request
This is important to the plot movies don't need to explain every little detail and his needless exposition when they do
But sometimes there's things that are worth explaining because then cinema sins will be unhappy if they don't do that
True, but you know like the one where she was suspended in mid-air
It's like the idea is the movies told us that she's trapped suspended in mid-air
And then she I feel like the fact that it cuts away from that even though it was perfectly capable of showing us how it escaped
Is the movie literally telling us it doesn't really matter how she escaped
She just did
Yeah
If I was more
More openly critical of this film I probably would
uh
That would have annoyed me more. But um, so if I was making like a breakdown of this movie, I probably would focus on that but
You know
I'll employ the just right response subjectively speaking. It didn't bother me. I mean I get the impression that
if they wanted to write a way out of that for
Nebula they could have very easily and they just cut because they
Like you know, they're like we don't need to spend time showing you this rather than we couldn't really figure out how she did it
Um cynical reviews has just added me in a post that says film director says most of hollywood secretly
Hated the last jedi are that journalists are forced to give fake positive reviews
That seems unlikely
Let me have a look hang on
Out here maybe two people in my life and hundreds of people i've talked to that like the movie all the filmmakers
I know that won't talk about it publicly and all the people I know
Internally, there's all these people that won't even journalists that give it
Already what one moment wolf i'm just listening to something
By the way to the person in the chat who asked me if I saw the hellboy trailer
I thought it looked horrible. I openly said listen something and then jade's like
Okay, jade's the worst. Yeah, so if you guys want to check that out, I don't know how
How trustworthy of a source it is
But um, I will keep an eye on it
For another time, but that's interesting if if true
What are all these notifications?
Oh, it's just the one fox wolf. What did you post loads? No, you posted two
How dare you ignore the second I mean
Sometimes two is too many, you know what i'm saying that that's what i'm saying
Hey in the famous words of tommy yzo two is okay, but three is a crowd
What about four
I don't know i'd have to ask tom. I don't fucking add stuff before
Um, also i'm nearly at the end of reading the super chats. That's what we've been doing this whole time wolf
Yeah, I know i've been listening the whole time
And you mr. Guy who was talking about like flipping a dick inside out
What's wrong with you?
That's what you're saying. What the fuck too now. I understand
Yeah, I was in the I was just in the car driving over to the pharmacy and then I hear that i'm like
What the fuck are you talking about? It was weird. It was weird
um
Would you guys ever host mumkey jones or eli walls?
I don't know who the second one is but yeah mumkey would be allowed on here
Even though he would say such controversial things that would get him banned from get us all banned from youtube. I guess
Would the join button on youtube be a good alternative?
Um, apparently i've i've actually approved for that to be on my channel, but it doesn't show up
So what's that?
Is essentially enabling subscriptions on youtube like monthly subscription
So a subscription to what that's the thing it's it's like patreon where you don't necessarily get anything
But you can then keep up monthly donations of a sort I suppose
That's
Okay, why not? Let's start nuking people. So let's switch to youtube
Well, let's just say youtube people this is a good time for youtube to bring something like that in but uh, yeah
I've enabled it, but it doesn't show up. So i'm gonna have to talk to like a youtube person eventually or something because
I remember youtube used to have like a donation button
Yes
And it came out that like youtube got most of the donations. They still get most of it
It's like well, not most of it. Oh, it's always still a thing
No, I mean they just they still get a lot a bigger cut of
The revenue you mean like from superchats? Yeah, like they they have a decent
For example, I think patreon is 5 while youtube is 30 something percent
So that's a lot more. It's a lot. So you guys have to send 30 more than you want
So if he sends if you send a dollar you got to send dollar 30, um, someone's asking
What what's our most hyped film of 2019?
Oh shit, I feel like I have an answer to this that isn't end game
Hold on if I need to look up
What else is coming out of 2019? I don't know I keep forgetting
I saw a trailer. Oh good god. There are so many bad movies coming out next year
There is captain marvel aladdin the lion king my god. Dumbo star wars episode nine
I love the dark reenix. It's like jesus christ. It's like the you just look it up and it's like wow
You're you're really trying to hire us for the worst
Uh, it's that question in chapter two. Oh that that should be good
Yeah, so
I I saw um mortal engines the other day is awful. Don't go see it
and um
There was a trailer for a film called captive state
That looked kind of interesting. So i'm i'm curious what that's all about
So all right, that's my answer apart from you know in game. Oh my god. We're getting frozen too
Also, okay
I thought people were like, you know
They didn't like frozen one in the first place the fucking song lasted for ages
Oh the joker movie. Yeah, because everyone loves that fucking basic bitch song
All I know about the joke movie is you're up in phoenix is playing him and that's enough to say you should go see it
And I was like fucking dead full two pointed out that frozen stole a song from a different movie
I didn't know that
Yep, it's one of the jokes. They actually make that joke twice in that movie frozen to freeze hard. Oh far from home
I'm really excited. That's pretty smart
Yeah, far from home could be cool. Um
Oh also captain marvel we're all very excited for that. I think
I hope it's good. Yeah
That even existed wow you hate women is that is that what's happening here?
Yeah, well john wick three
Is it john wick three?
In 2019, you know how the last one ended
Well, definitely. Yeah, I I i'm i'm excited to see john wick three. I very controversially do not like john wick too
All right
I'm one of them evil people. I love john. I'm just
I'm just really averse to the idea of the fact of them that they're making a fucking lion king remake
I hated the trailer so much like to the core of my soul. I wanted to die. Well, it's like why can't disney focus on
You know trying to create new classics instead of going like oh, it's because every new movie they make is shit
That's your opinion
Hey, no disney make marvel films technically too
Marvel was doing things marvel was doing its thing before it was acquired by disney. I'm not giving them credit for that shit
Will you give them credit for stalls is untitled terminated. Look they're making fucking three remakes the uh,
Lion king aladdin and dumbo like who the fuck cares about dumbo
Hell boy, that looks like it's gonna be shit. If jim crow isn't in the new dumbo. I will boycott it
Oh jim crow is not going to be in it. I don't think they do that
The film i'm least excited for is artemis foul
It looks horrible
You're more excited for episode nine. I haven't heard the name artemis foul since I was like a seven-year-old. Holy shit
They look the movie just looks
atrocious
Oh god the new terminator film too. Yeah
Mahler we're gonna i'm gonna have to like fly out to the uk to see it with you
Just because I don't want to have to suffer through that alone
I hate it because I've I need to make a chimney genesis video before I get that done
I'm gonna have to do the fucking new one
Where do you live wolf?
michigan
Oh, fuck that shit
Hey zombieland 2 is coming out that could be good
Detective Pikachu could be all right. I don't know
I don't know how you make a sequel out of zombieland exactly like it's fine. I don't know
I just have them fiddle fuck around for two hours. I'll be entertained fair enough
Oh god, I have to do in star wars angry birds too
Oh my god. Yes, i'm so excited
I mean
Jesus christ, why doesn't slender or slender sony make another slenderman movie while they're at it. Jesus christ
Make money
By my man. No, it made practically nothing
Oh god, the kid who would be king. Have you seen the trailer for that?
What is that? Oh, are they are they ripping off the man who would be king which is like one of the movies i've ever seen
I don't i've never seen it. I I just know that the kid who would be king. I saw the trailer. Um
Recently
And it looks like absolute shit. It's like I
I will give you the premise. It's a little fat kid who finds x caliber and then he has to fight aliens or something
Right. I like that. You've seen that film by the way
What the man who would be king? Yeah, that's cool. Oh, it's so fucking good
I remember my dad showed me when I was really young and it's such a dad showed me that when I was young
It's like jared's from a chat
Jared hello there. Jared real man who had been king. Wait, put put up that picture for him to see bro
What the fuck? I know right? Yeah, hang on. Let me find the picture
Jared don't leave just just look at the screen for a little bit. We're gonna show you you got some fan art, buddy
Yeah, uh, I will we'll read out more the rest of the super chats at the end I suppose but we'll uh
All right. Here it is. Someone created this charrett. I love what he's doing with the hair
Side note mortal engines could lose 100 million dollars
Cool, isn't that I think it's somewhere near what solo last I can remember
I need to it. I remember remember robin hood was a movie that came out
Oh the new one that came out when you said that I immediately thought the russell crow one I was like
No, he's talking about the other one
Yeah, I like the russell crow one. I haven't seen it. Oh, it's it's good. It's worth seeing but I mean
It's funny that I remember that one before the one that's just come out
Yeah, I haven't seen the russell crow one either
But that was the first thing I thought of and then I was like, oh, no wait
They made another one made one this year. It came out in november at the end of november. We've all forgotten
I didn't know about it in the first place
Jared says oh my god, he's a queer
I got good on you. Jared. There are more we love you buddy. There are more memes as well
There are four memes in which I must share
That's the first one. I'm not 100 sure on this one, but I mean
It is a meme. It's just worth sharing
Um, what the fuck is wrong with his eyes? Do you not see the genius of the last jedi ragas?
And there's this one you get a lot of creative ideas with this, you know
Please just let me die
Fucking spider
Oracles bite it
No
This is a weird one, oh my god, that's amazing
It's like the layers of memes
Oh my god
Okay, so kylo ben sarah rhino being milked by wall
Oh
Possibly the greatest of all time. Oh god. Another one is the last one
Wait, is that the the mcdonald's creature the grimace?
Dude
I feel like i'm on deviantart from 2006. I mean, holy shit
This is awesome
Efap is weird. I think I think we've definitely crossed into that territory now
Um, oh my god, look at his fucking mustache
It just looks it looks off-putting
Oh
Mumkey jones has sent me a pm saying he'd happily get us on the
Date of the youtube
Hooray, that'll be cool
I'll see. I'll be honest. I don't know anything about mumkey jones aside anybody with an animal avatar
Could be okay
Well, the the funny thing is i'm pretty sure
Monkey doesn't actually like me. I'm not sure if he knows who I am
Like because he's said things about me before. Yeah, he sniped at you a bit
I don't mind because I snipe at people. I just wonder what's he said
But he said i'm really
Bad for film criticism and I tell people that they're not allowed to like things
Okay, so mumkey like
I mean, I know i'm being a little hyperbolic since you know people call us alt right when we're all left-wingers
Well, would he be like left-wing in our sphere or left-er wing?
I have no idea. I don't know. I don't care. Honestly. Yeah, I don't really mind
I'll happily talk to him about all this shit. Anyway, because I yeah, I don't really care either
I just heard I mean when you said film bad for film criticism
I was like from what I understand he he's the kind of guy who'd be like, yeah, fuck it. Whatever
I was just I was just you know ranting about youtube channels, whatever and I'd be like, yeah
I know. It's like most of the people that like criticize us or we criticize them
They have no idea who we are. They just yeah, they're they're generally very far left
So when you tell me that a guy says that you're bad for film criticism, I immediately think pretty far left
For you right, but it's like why though?
Why why is that the case? I don't know. I guess it's like the left just has the worst taste in films for some reason
I'm, not sure
Which is what you guys just did you said the left like bad films label and dismiss well done wolf well done
Even though you can see yourself left sometimes
I do consider myself left. It's just like the rest of the left-ers are like
The catchphrase
Yeah, it's like i'm that guy who's like in the classroom full of like
Retards and i'm like in the corner like just just don't associate with them
All right, we we are totally going to continue with the video. Oh sonic the hedgehog is coming out
We didn't need to be reminded of that rags what's wrong with you, but yeah, uh, you have to see this one
Oh god, is this one going to be even better than the deviantart picture?
That's pretty good
That's amazing
The whole thing is great. I like that. I like that kylo ben Thanos
Kylo ben Thanos
Oh, it's amazing. We'll never be able to have an episode of efap anymore because we're too busy laughing at memes like
Oh, yeah, we're having videos actually laughing at memes
Say like again
Like do I say like weird like this isn't the first time i've heard that i'm gonna say that
I haven't noticed like like
like
Come on precious crystal fox boy. You got to give me a little bit more instruction than that
Although I do love the fact that you actually made sure you surname precious crystal fox boy
I know this is a weird thing to say but are you guys good for me to press play on this thing?
Oh, yeah, I forgot we were watching a video by
We should probably this baby and oh god, I forget. Yeah, it's weird to get back into the groove actually
We're like halfway through and i've been streaming for like three hours
I mean
Like I said, I feel like we break the record every time this is actually the longest I think we've ever spent but I don't know
What are the odds of far from memes though? It's true on planet moon like titan would have air breathable by humans
Yeah, that's in-house logic apparently 100 percent
I was gonna say in-house rule for mcu is that every planet has fucking oxygen apparently
So wait at the end of captain america red skull touches the space stone and is sent into space
To be a sort of keeper of the soul stone. It really just becomes the witch king of germany. Yeah, idiot
Yeah, um, don't you know your knowledge school him saying it really seems like a reason to shoehorn red skull back into the story
I would be like, oh you you got to put up the video. They can't see it. Oh shit. Sorry
um
You see what would you do without me monitoring the chat and being the word of the people remember the reason why we did this in the first place
Yeah, i'm like the mouth of sauron only I like speak for the chat
You think to the mouth of sauron be like hold on you you don't have the light on he's like oh fuck
He's trying to address the orcs and it's like oh shit
Fucking idiot put the lights on
Oh, he forgot to put on his fucking armor and he's like, dude, they can tell you're an elf. Oh shit
Yeah, wolf. You're officially the hero of the stream. Now. You did that. Um, was that a spoiler hooray?
Ignore that what that sauron's an elf
Let him let him think that's his it's it's not really important but
Thank you for spawn camp for sending two dollars to let us know the video isn't on the screen
No, mate, that's a hero right there
Someone said mouth of sauron wolf artwork. Oh god
You know, you got me for that. I'm afraid of what would happen with that
What like horrifying monster? Oh, they probably just put like a wolf's muzzle popping out of the helmet. That's true
That could actually be funny to say that they did this to shoehorn red skull back into the story does he even affect the story?
He's just there
No, that's more of a cameo, isn't it? Yeah, i'd say it's a cameo at most like it's me
Um making him red skull. It could have been anybody. It doesn't really matter. I don't know
I guess they just made him red skull because it they could
Tie it in in some way. That's it. They don't have to introduce a new character for it
I guess I guess it's so that we have the answer of what happened to him when he got absorbed by the the goop
in captain america now
He didn't look like he died he like got transported and this is apparently where he went
Basically, it seems
Who wants to go
I give it to him that it seems kind of uh arbitrary that this is what happened to him that he he
Touched the uh, which stone was it the space stone and then got sent to guard the soul stone
I don't even got it. He's just apparently guides people to it
Oh, yeah, whatever he does. And this is the thing you could be like that
Why why is that happening? I'd be like why not? I don't know. There's no rules on what happens when you touch the tesseract, is there?
Even though fury touches it but he has a glove on so
Oh, I mean look this is just what happens when
Elves go to valinor. I mean look at what happened to elrond. He got fucked up. This is true
This is what this is how elrond ended up. This has nothing to do with red skull
Yeah, this is what tolkin forgot to put in the appendices and you know when it comes to in hugo weaving was in mortal engines
Oh dear I it saddens me when good people are in bad things
Fucking patrick stewart played a shit in like a literal shit in the emoji. No a literal shit emoji
He was a difference. Okay, he was still a shit
Yeah, but these days if you're a good actor, what are your what are your options? I've literally got a list of
He wasn't shit. He was the shit. Yeah, it is tough. Well, how does an actor know if a movie's gonna be bad
He can't even be the shit because he had a kid who was also a shit
No, the kid was being a little shit
Oh, you're both being little shits. How about that?
Dun dun dun
You see mauler. This is why me and rags hook up, but we don't involve you
You guys hang out without me sometimes well
Uh, yeah, anyway, I don't think anybody cares the red skull really turned up here because it doesn't really matter that's what I was saying
Chew horn red skull back into the story more than anything that makes sense
Sorry, what would have made sense when when he got transported by the stow the the test?
Well, what exactly is the outcome there that's supposed to happen?
It's like yeah
Obviously, he was supposed to go to heaven idiot
He was supposed to turn into a constellation like the dragon at the end of dragonheart. He goes to Nazi heaven
Wait, which dragonheart movie the first one? Well
That's typically the one I think about
Dragonheart yeah, I reviewed the fourth one that had patrick stewart in it, too
Oh
Aladdin king of thieves where they bring back robin williams
There was a wait a minute. There was a second aladdin. There was a third aladdin. What the fuck?
Okay. Listen, so there's three aladdin movies soon to be four, right?
The the second and third were straight to phs, but I want bear with me. The third one is actually good
They got robin williams back
I know that they like had an aladdin tv show or maybe there was a herc or no
I think there was an aladdin and a hercules tv show, but it was was 1996
They made aladdin and the king of thieves and it's actually good
Yeah, I guess I guess zanith needs the clarification again, so
Uh, like I said, it has no effect on the story whether or not red skull is here
So to say that it's convenient that he ended up here like wouldn't make sense to say they're shoehorning him back in
I could agree with that but who cares
What what relevance does it have that red skull is here?
And how do you know it wasn't possible for him to end up here as a result of tesseract?
It's just it's the same inference back and forth if someone said he was hit by the tesseract
He couldn't possibly end up here. I could be like he was hit by the tesseract. It doesn't make sense. He'd go anywhere but here
Nobody ain't got nothing
But uh, yeah, I mean if he turned out to like take over the world as a result of this or something
I'd probably be like, yeah, this is kind of weird
But you know, whatever those to a treasure I cannot actually thought by the way
I don't know if you guys agree with this, but you know when I think I talked to wolf and jay about it
when we rewatched the movie, but um
The line where we're where thanos is crying and then
Amora's like what?
You're crying because you're sad about not being able to take over the world and then it pans over to red skull and he's like
Those tears
are not for him
And then she goes oh my god
And it's like I think she could have figured that out or at least we could have figured that out just by having the seed without
Exposition man, and I wonder why red skull would even say that like what would be his investment to let her know
He broke his little nazi heart. He was like, oh
That's sad
He's a ring rate. No, he doesn't have a heart. Well, here's the thing. You don't know that this is nazi
Hell he has to spend eternity helping
We're not white. I have to say nazi. Hell is a lot less brutal
He has to spend an eternity amongst people who aren't white
Well, yeah purple a purple guy in a green chick walked up and you have to help him and you're a nazi
How do you think you're gonna feel about it?
You have to help a purple man. Take over the universe god
There's so many more layers to this scene than I ever thought satan said there and he's like, what do you think of that?
Green people nazi is really he's not even right now
I didn't think about that. Did you and he's like green's not so bad. It's like what about purple then, huh?
What about that purple?
So do you think the planet is just so big that all the nazis like they couldn't possibly find each other
So they just have to deal with all the multicultural
Aliens that just show up to get rocks
Imagine you landed on the other side of the planet and you were like, right
Where's this stone and they just have to walk around for ages and you just see the distance l ron. It's like hey
All right, save me some time
What do you think l ron does up there all the time is just like place a doku
masturbates
That would be a long time of doing that. Yeah. Well, what else are you gonna fucking do? I I don't know is there
Maybe he's got like fucking minecraft on his
Someone said that um
The reason he's there is to explain like the stone and how it works and everything
You know what i was saying about him
It doesn't matter that it's him we could have had any other person do that it being red skull doesn't really change anything
It was like could have been kyle ben. It could have been a spider could have been a spider. Yeah
Uh, we're just just on the same wavelength right now
A lot of people looking for the soul stone since you got sent here in 1945. What happened before you were here?
It's warren g harding guiding people back then
I don't know
What do you guys think was happening? What's the problem?
You know what i was just saying with this movie is that something that isn't related to its plot in any way?
I like the idea that he's genuinely concerned about this
He's like guys you have to like who was the ward of this planet and the roosters are like there wasn't one that says it's like
that's
unacceptable
Hey, the real the real problem with uh, if this is nazi hell then clearly this was just his shift
He was working the afternoons. That's true. There could be several people here who commute man
Yeah, what if they just like all right? I'll take the shift fine. You do. I work nights in nazi hill
The hours are killer, but I am dead. So
So what do you do exactly?
Well, you know, I guard a rock at the bottom of a really big cliff and hope that someone is going to take it
I get five deutschmarks an hour to save up for a ticket to limbo. Oh god. No, no, jared. No
No, no, no. Hey rags. Can you can you see that in the chat?
Okay
Jared
Jared
Jared no
Jared are you a top or bottom?
Okay, even if he was a top I would not allow him to be even if he was
a top
It all holds a special place among the infinity stones why you might say it
Doesn't you like proceed to explain it?
Oh
My best my favorite thing is you could take that single clip and play it after like half of his clips
and you have like
More valor criticism of him than he has of this before playing this doesn't red skill say the reason is special is like it's not
It's not in a location. It's something you have to like earn sacrifice for you can't
pick off a shelf you have to
You know do a thing for it. I think what he's asking is why is this the own?
Why is this stone different from the other stones? We don't well
I mean don't give it a real reason for that
Soul stone, I don't know do it. Do we i'm curious though. Do we need a reason?
I guess it seems a little
Arbitrary, but it's like it's a two and a half hour movie with what I will say is
space mind
Reality time
I forget the other one and soul soul
Seems a little like if you were to pick a special one
I don't know because the other ones you can actually tie to to something I would I would imagine people would argue maybe not mind
Um, but uh soul, right? That's how how tangible is soul?
Not very so I I maybe that's why it's special I don't know
Oh
Men in black international is coming out next year. Oh god. I watch the trailer. Why?
Why why wait, they're making another men in black too. Yes
Oh my god, why can't we just get like original movies that are shit
I watched the the hellboy and men in black two trailers back to back
Earlier today and I was very sad after both of them. That's literally the exact same thing I did
I was just sad. I just watched them and I was like, okay. I I watched the hellboy one and I was like why?
why
Why don't you just come out with hellboy 3 like everyone once they hired a guy with a
Larger than normal chin the guy from stranger things
And then they tried to give him makeup to make him look like ron pilman. It's like wait a minute. That's ron pilman
wait, so
That that's that's uh, what what's his fucking name dennis hopper is it no hopper hopper is this guy in the show
I can't remember what his first name is in the show
Yeah, hopper he's playing
That's him. I mean I will I will confirm it was kind of fat
Wasn't he? I don't know. Maybe he lost weight for the role. I
Lost weight and gained about 300 pounds of muscle. His name is david. David armor. Yeah
Very faint. Oh boy
Jesus christ. I like you as an actor. Mr. Hopper, but please don't do this movie
Just say no
He's already he's already done it. Just
Stop doing it
Just let just give the film is finished. Well, just should have asked the spider whether or not it would be good
Look just let del toro make hellboy 3. It's what everyone's fucking wanted since hellboy 2
I don't get that. I thought hellboy 2 was like successful. Like what happened to hellboy 3?
I don't really know
And man the special effects in the hellboy 1 and 2 so cool. Then again, that's just guillermo del toro. So
Um, I I think i'm gonna have to take off here in a second. I'm getting super tired. I've been up for a long time
Uh, I mean do you want to we'll try and push through a bit more of this video, shall we and then yeah, sure
Yeah
But i'm just it's getting tough
I mean, we've nearly reached the four hour mark, which is I think we're supposed to reach that and then we're allowed to quit
before everyone's angry at us
wisdom
But why stone demands a sacrifice? We've only been going for four hours
Feels like longer than that
Oh, yeah, so that's because the time stone why does this also require all this shit? It's just like I don't know
I don't know
This does though. Those don't require so many more parameters to acquire. I guess the question is why wouldn't it?
Have we been presented anything that would suggest it wouldn't it's like well the other stones
It's like yeah, but none of the other stones are like the other stones
What's the power of the soul stone exactly?
We don't ever find out. I don't think on a way
He does use the soul stone on dr. Strange to figure out which one is the correct. Dr. Strange, I believe
It controls souls
Uh
You could argue it's just the if that's the only time he uses it in the film, which i'd have to check
It allows you to tell who the true person is question mark
I'm guessing it's going to be illusions
I'm guessing it's going to be really important for wiping out half the population that too
but
Yeah, so the stones themselves said okay
If you're powerful enough to hold the other five gems, we'll let you change reality move across space
It will increase your strength and harness the most powerful energy in the universe go into the past and the future and access other people's
Did he say the creators of the stones go into the past and the future?
Don't you need to rewind? I don't know. I guess you can go to the future. That's true
Did he say the creators of the stones because weren't they just sort of didn't they just sort of happen according to the movies
He said during wasn't it in the when the universe was created six stones were hurtled across the universe. That's what he said
Yeah, it's basically the backstory of bionicle
I don't yeah, I don't think anyone said they were created but maybe they were in the
Comics, I don't know. I doubt he's gone and read something to be like no in the comics. It's different. He just stopped there
How do you surrender it in here when it comes to controlling all life in the universe, that's where we draw the line
Dude's got kind of a thing for bubbles. I see I feel like the sacrifice. Why is that a sin?
I would agree that the bubbles that kind of
Yeah, I did say when we watched it. I would prefer something else. In fact, I would have preferred nothing
I think bubbles are just typically associated with
Kind of like bubbles. You should have turned it into a rubber chicken. Yes, that would have been perfect
And she squeezes it and it makes that annoying noise
And it's a it's a still in packaged blu-ray copy of avenger's infinity war
If someone says maula look at chat and now i'm looking and i'm like, wait, what am I supposed to see?
Jared genesis said that your british accent jingles his bells. Oh good lord
What doesn't Jared? I thought we had something going
Now you're trying to get the british
Thanos have been given his own proper origin film and if we'd had more reason to suspect his lover, I agree
Does anyone else disagree with that statement? Yeah, sure. It's like how could you not want that? Yeah
This death is sad until you realize that a the time stone will end up figuring into her coming back to life
Anyway, and b that despite all the problems since the firing of james gun guardians of the galaxy 3 was ready to go into production
After this movie. Yeah, that's true. Um, but I don't know if it was guaranteed that she was in it
Was it if it was fair enough? Um, apparently it's been leaked that she is confirmed
But she's only confirmed to appear in it and that could be like, you know, flashbacks. Yeah in the soul stone any capacity
We don't know the script curious about what if thanos had the time stone already?
Sacrificed it got the other stone and then reversed time on here. I feel like the soul stone is smart enough to know that
You know, like that's what it's like
No, maxis
Like wait, uh baguette you'll get soul stones. It's like hey you can't do that
I feel like the stone would punish him for it like killing or something
It just squirts like has a little water squirter and sprays him in the face. Like no
No
What the hell happens here he kills her the weather gets weird a flash and suddenly he's in a pool of water with a stone
How and where is there any water here? Anyway, it's like an ice dimension with yeah
No, I I agree. I don't know what's going on in this scene. Really?
I don't think it matters though
Yeah, it's unusual I was mostly just put off by the fact that this is like the ugliest shot in the entire movie
How would you feel about that if the shot said you were ugly?
Okay
Well, I am a big sign on this on the moon back there. It says you are ugly
Imagine imagine red skull was next to him as well. He goes that's the soul stone by the way
You have it, you know, I don't even have a nose and I think you're ugly
That was like, yeah. No, I get it. He's like you have to put it in the glove
He's like, yeah. No, I got it. You could use that reality stone to change your fucking face
Oh
Snow, is he not on for me or anymore? I'm actually so confused by this cut
I suspect the next movie might hinge in some small way on it
But whatever it's still a weird cut location change in the movie and I shall sin it
Something's as if you had to justify sinning something
Come on
Just one line about how Thanos or something with the stones tells him exactly where each one is would be
Fucking terrific. I agree didn't help him at all with the soul stone
He needed Gamor to tell him that so why the precision knowledge with the unless there's something they're saving for the second one
I mean
Why wouldn't they have just?
It's possible that there's something we haven't thought of here and it's going to be a reveal for the next part
It's kind of a difficulty when criticizing things
As soon as endgame comes out it'll be much easier to criticize infinity wall definitively
In fact, there might be more about infinity wall that will be with once we see endgame
Because we'll be like oh, so why didn't this happen? Why didn't you know?
But at the same time there might be stuff that's like oh so that's why that was like that true
Maybe stuff that gets better the others these ships hit the earth at massive speed. I don't know
Sorry, did you just say massive speed?
Their speed is very large I don't
Could you say that if speed was a number they're they're such big speed
Oh wait, I mean their speed is huge from uh, fuck what very
It would be better to say like insane speed
Oh, you could say massive amounts of speed rags
Downward thrust said it and you fucking pointed it out. Like there's something like
Huge more I think he said was that it
Something he described something because there was a huge more about and you just pulled no, it was it was big little wasn't it?
That might be another one. No, that's that sounds
Is he stupid enough to say that?
No, I I swear to god
I think that there was a point where we at least
It was either downward thrust or someone else who said big. No way. Actually, I think that might have been Jared
Well, either way huge more i'm almost certain. It's something downward thrust said
It was hilarious, um
Or to tell him that so why the precision knowledge with the others these ships hit the earth at massive speed
I don't understand why they don't do to the planet with meteors that large would do like in deep impact or fucking age of ultron
I you might be right with that
Sure. Yeah, and yet they don't they just cause little fire ripples and loud noises
This battle at wakanda doesn't make a whole lot of strategical sense
Thanos already has enough stones to wreck these earthlings on his own. He needs vision stone
That's basically the only reason he sends this army feels imply that
You just answered your own question
Yeah, like he needs vision stone. That's the only reason he says the army pretty big reason. Yeah, that's kind of yeah
I only need this stone to nuke the universe. So
And and this is going on while he's getting the other stones like it seems reasonable and obviously thanos is like hey
If they're unsuccessful, I will mop up
Is what he does
Fine to me
Something actiony to do with a bunch of our characters that didn't make the trip to titan and we came up with this
I'm gonna hold it open that suicide. So it was facing thanos without that axe
Okay, dude
You had a magical hammer made by this guy at this place and your sister smashed it like it was chocolate
I take offense to the idea that an axe from here could defeat thanos and the fact that it near to be fair
I don't know
Hela could have or hell. What was her name in?
It was hela in the movie. It's hell in the fifth. So hela probably could have done some damage to thanos. Honestly
She seemed op from ragnarok really op
And
Can you imagine her fighting thanos that could have been cool to be honest
But I imagine she could do some damage before he uses
Yeah, she could just like lower her head and run and like stab him with her stupid cgi antlers
Yeah, the fact that she could destroy mjolnir doesn't tell me that thanos is immune to mjolnir
You know, I mean look mjolnir was like really really small but the axe is really really big
There you go since since that's when you can catch him on counters is smaller than the other hammer, okay
And even it's a hammocks as well, it's like a hammer and an axe
Someone said hela er. I believe a hammer axe is called a mole. I may be mistaken. No hammocks. It's in
Terraria, they call it a hammocks. I believe
I was he said a hammocks. I imagined an axe made out of ham. So yeah, i'm fucking with you
I don't know what the actual name for it is
Now I want no one ham
If it's called a mole, that's that's that's interesting. I believe it's called a mole
smoked ham
Axma that an axe from here could defeat pano and the fact that it also the fact that he's complaining and it's like
What else is still gonna do? I mean this seems like the best plan
I don't know even though, you know, we didn't know about it before now. I just
What i'm trying to imply here is that tholes alternative is to what not use it
May as well try these star wars esks kids style troop transports are super inefficient in that only 20 of their service area can hold troops
That one annoyed me because I felt like there were ways to counter it, but I couldn't think of any
He's right it's a shit design
So
The problem is it's like well how much fucking technology space do they need to be able to generate the harviness of it?
I don't know
We're inefficient, you know, it's kind of like
Yeah, i'm assuming because it's wakanda. Yeah, but if it ran if it ran on
Free yeah, yeah, if it ran on gasoline and wheels
It would be more efficient. Well, these are probably faster
And they're all terrain how fast are they going
In that only 20 of their service areas is slowmo can hold troops also 20 is such a reach
Yeah, I don't think I'd call that 20 of its surface. Yeah, it's a reach. I get his point. I agree with his point
I probably but yeah
They could have been better designed but I mean the army gets here anyways
I don't know what difference it would make look at that distance between the shield and the wakandan troops that everybody including natasha
Just traversed in three seconds and that pissing match competition. Did you miss the hovercraft that they used to get there?
Well, I mean, I don't even think
This is like not to quote patrick williams, but isn't this i'm aren't using montage aren't they saying?
Look, they walked from there to there, but we're not going to show you it
A jump cut. Yeah
I've heard that films use those they I don't think films have ever used those it's only ever in
My mistake, okay
Infinity war is just trying to give it a go like pioneer this technique
Patient that the shield was 100% unnecessary to the story and the battle. I agree. There is no reason this takes place
I don't know why they have it
It's almost as if it's like a reference to how this is a thing that would happen
In like older wars, you know you meet up and be like, hey
They just really wanted to replicate that one scene from the third pirates of the caribbean movie except they forgot that was the worst
of the three
Um that sounded funnier in my head. No, i'm sorry. I was reading something. Um
Florida man has sex with pitbull in his yard. His neighbors beg him to stop
I can imagine that that would distract you
Someone posted on twitter. I was just like oh my oh
Of course florida. Um
Yeah, yeah mauler it's like those florida and africa games from dp. Oh, yeah
All right, there's there's more memes too. Well, we'll keep with the video and then uh, and then we will cut more memes
Oh good
Just what I wanted to see in this giant marvel movie swarms of easily killable cgi monster clones
Thanos could easily just do the job right now, but no he couldn't he's busy on titan really busy
Yeah, he's elsewhere right now. He does come here and finish the job himself as soon as he can. Come on jeremy
See I remember in my video I put uh, I I specifically used the wording Thanos can't be in two places at once
Which is apparently a mistake because in the comics that the reality stone literally lets him do that
But you know, this isn't the comics there. We've not seen that ability of the reality stone
Well, that's what everyone says about he could generate resources with the globe. I was like, when do they establish he can do that?
I mean
It's before they establish that when he has all the stones he can basically just control like all aspects of reality
I feel like it's a fair assumption. This is the thing if that's something he could do like he can just do anything
then
But there's the questions just never end with that one. Wouldn't it be just like why don't you just make everybody feel happy and good forever?
You know what I mean? Just be like that would just be like taking away their free will and bottomizing them
I think Thanos has got too much of like a moral high standing to do that
Fair enough. We will see them address it in the second film. I am certain of it. They probably won't
Why do that when you can reenact Braveheart? They went to the trouble of showing him getting a Wakandan maid
How is this a reenactment of Braveheart? I don't it's just because it's too fighty
So I would much rather have that gun than that weird spear thing
You don't want to fire blue goop at them. First off. I know how to operate a weapon
I don't know. Look I he's got sights for starters
That's true, but he doesn't have a spear
Oh, yeah
So yeah and in battle all we really see him do is fire a machine gun
How many arms does it take to hold and fire a machine gun? I'm confused
Does he expect the orb to be firing things? Is that what he's trying to say here?
I don't I feel like the fact that we get shown it specifically means that
We would expect it to come into play and it just sort of doesn't well
I'm assuming it holds the machine gun so that he can use the machine gun not only that but we do see him
Use it on them. Um, he uses it to defend himself at one point because one of them jumps on him
Um, oh, yeah, but I always thought the point of it was to tell us he's got his arm back
Because he got it torn off by iron bad
I just trying to figure out how he came to the conclusion that fucking
This movie's battle scenes where anything like brave hearts will stick with them. It's like
Symmonsons, do you know?
what brave heart is
Because there's nothing like brave heart. I could explain this one and my very expansive experience of this channel
um, one of the main things he likes to do is compare things for the most arbitrary and sometimes like just
completely like
Possible I remember he compared the warcraft movie to rocky and monsters ink
What?
Yeah, can you can you guess why he like like he would compare those monstrous ink?
What the fuck because it has non-white humans in it
I'll tell you the parallel between uh warcraft and monsters ink
It was that uh in warcraft called dan
Uses humans as fuel to power as magic and in monsters ink they use humans
To get uh, scare energy from them to power their stuff
Okay
That was too similar. Oh wait, isn't don't you say this movie that movie or something when you just
Had to stop doing that because it got too repetitive because of the sheer amount he did it
He's done it
Well, yeah. All right
So basically every battle scene is just like brave heart just like if the fps adds ads
It must be a copy of call of duty every moment. We agree with him. It's like the next sin will be like
We're like
It's like the idea that the the trained military guy is using a machine gun is like that seems really appropriate
A machine gun will fuck you up
Well, yeah, I mean I don't have a problem with that
I mean because I have my I have my own issues with the wakanda fight i'm waiting for him to bring them up
But uh the ones he's brought up so far a little bit 50 50 with me
I'm no war machine fan. This looks hella useful and he should just do that all battle
I don't think he has infinite things
I'm just just going to say as well as soon as they open the barrier you see war machine just like
pummeling the opening with explosions
Like they're not the same explosives, but he is he is doing similarly effective things
Someone said bucky must be uh, mel gibson because the hair
In order to keep the aliens from going around and flanking them they
Open the fucking shield barrier directly in front of them. And honestly, it's one of the most baffling military decisions
uh
The way I even when I was watching this film
I think I can't remember where it was, but uh
My sister and her boyfriend watched it for the first time and they're the kind of people who never point out anything wrong with films
They just quote unquote enjoy them
And uh, my sister like when this happened, she was like what?
I was like what and she was like, why don't they just put more people on vision in case someone gets through
Now loads of them will get through and I was like
Yeah, I don't know
I don't I don't think it was a good idea at all
you
Polluted your sister's mind and now she's gotta
Now she's not gonna let anybody have opinions
Because yeah, you see what objectivity does to a family they they open like open section blah blah blah
And i'm just like oh man, couldn't you have opened a smaller section?
Because it's like a really big I thought the idea here was that
It's so that they wouldn't break through a bunch of different places on the wall. Yeah, because you can only
You could only cover a certain part of it
You would bait them into coming out of the same one place as a choke
Which I agree in principle
But then you think about it and you're like how many of them things were getting through and you had an entire army plowing
Into the wall and it was like i'd say about 10 per 100
So if they were doing that all over the map, then you just post everybody around everywhere
So they're taking on maybe three at a time at most as opposed to they just get utterly annihilated here by the uh
The dog things because there's like hundreds coming through
Should have just opened a gap just big enough for one of them to fit through at a time and had someone just like keep shooting
The same spot. I wish you'd told shuri to open and close it every 10 seconds
Oh, yeah, fuck him up. I came up with that one
Be good shit. Be good shit. No, because they have vibranium that makes them smart for some
Apparently dogs started firing on friendly tanks and courage under fire
Why not leave cap and you and falcon and war machine here to get the stragglers getting through one at a time
And send the entire rest of the army to the back to fight the alien foot soldiers. I agree
I love how they both leap in here punching like they somehow know these aren't aliens with poison skin or acid blood
There are frogs here on earth that have poisoned skin. Also say why didn't phantos stuff his army? Wait, so he's like
He's surprised that they just assumed they could attack these things
What else do you want them to do? I just find it amusing
So he's like they could have had poisoned skin
You know what? Yeah, they also have black panthers wearing gloves. That's true. But cap wasn't that's a sin
Cap might have died
Cap might have died in this battle. Oh, yeah, by the way, see how bad either are it's just like oh god
Opening that portion of the gate may not you know
If black panther just used his silent shoes, he might have been able to sneak behind all of them. Yeah
He should have used his shoes in his balls
and that like punch thing
Where like they punch him and then punch him in the same spot and they explode or something
I do think you see him using that in the background of this one. Yeah. No, he does use it a couple of times
I think
With aliens that oh, okay poison skin or acid blood a bunch of whatever if thor can withstand the energy a bunch of whatever
Was that just?
I think he's giving up
A bunch of whatever fuck it star what can kill him
It's almost like this movie is saying all that stuff that could have killed thor in the other movies
Well, forget all that because he can take the brunt of a star's energy
Honestly, if you look at all the things he survived and all the things that come close to killing him
I can't even draw you up what can kill thor, but I think if you chopped his head off he'd probably die
That's my guess
I don't know what you could what could you use to chop his head off?
Well, uh, he does get stabbed by loki in avengers he gets stabbed by um
What's her name hella hell? I keep forgetting which one they use. Uh, hello
uh
It's the cringe
And then you've got yeah, so you can stab him
And you need he could have been killed in ragnarok from what I understand being captured and zapped and shit. I don't know
I don't know what it would take to kill him. I don't
Because this movie really needs him to but he is they've always implied that thor's one of the most powerful avengers, right?
That's always been a thing. Yeah, and he's clearly one of the most powerful as guardians because
I mean seems to be the only person who's better than him is hella
Groot finally looks up from his video game and don't tell me it's because he cares about thor
The movie just needs him to get involved here in a second teenagers
Do not act moody for a long time and then suddenly sacrifice a limb for a creepy stranger. He's a tree
Most teenagers aren't made out of wood either, but you know
uh
The problem for me was that they didn't prep a handle before doing this
I guess kind of weird to me they keep you like yeah, let's do this whole thing
It's like oh because tyrian's like oh fuck. We didn't get the handle look for the handle
I could be wrong about this, but my
Understanding of it was that the metal filled the mold for the top of the axe
But it didn't feel like there wasn't enough of it to fill the mold for that
Oh, really?
I'm I am not sure if i'm pulling that out of my ass or not
So what was their plan? I thought tyrian was looking for a handle though because he says like you have to find the handle
Would do you mean that when they smacked it open there would have been a handle in there had there been enough?
Yes, okay. That might be I don't know
I'd just like to think that tyrian was drunk as usual and like totally forgot that he needed a handle for it
Yeah, i'll i'll do a set of ascends here be like how is it that?
A tree would just put a rope on it and swing it around
To connect two pieces of scalding hot magical metal. It's just like magic wood. I don't know. That's how it works
Magic tree purse is not sacrificing a limb. He's gonna grow it back. Well, that's the weird thing
I don't know why he picked that to sin like why would you go for that? That's something that we know he can do
Yeah, he sacrificed all of him in the first movie
He needs the axe. Why he's not the god of axes is he?
So he wants to kill thanos
Well, it he's it does regenerate him from what I understand doing the thing with the axe, but he doesn't avenge us
Right. He strikes himself with lightning or whatever and it like boosts him
I
Don't remember that it's when he's like all sad
Because he got booted out of the aircraft craft carrier
I can't remember if he gets hit by lightning
But he he has a moment where all his armor like attaches it to himself and I think he holds the hammer up to the sky
I can't remember
I'd have to uh, yeah, so now he and the weapon are one
You know, I usually forget about thor's involvement in the previous two adventurous movies
You're not gonna catch me defending thor makes sense. He's like one of the most nonsense characters in terms of
Limits and abilities to be honest. I don't know what he's capable of really
Yeah, I mean as much as I didn't really like ragnarok myself. I gotta say
like
What was thor prior to ragnarok?
There was just nothing to him at all. There's not much to describe character wise. He was uh
All I remember was when he went into the cave in the middle of nowhere with
Dude to look at a pool to go into a vision where heimdall was like evil or something
And then he smacked vision in the face with his hammer
And then vision came to life and then he was like I did this for a reason we know that he's um referencing
Odin saying you're not the god you're not thor god of hammers, but it is established that is the weapon helps
with thor
It gives him a boost
And even says it'll help you focus your power. You could interpret that however, you want really hate it
I thought he and the hammer were one
But ultimately that hammer didn't matter and he didn't help make the hammer either
My point is these movies give zero f**ks about how the magic space weapons wielded by god's work or don't
What's a pretty funny sentence?
Yeah, tell us what the rules are
I mean, they're not as clear as they could be i'll give him that but you have to admit that's a funny thing to say
It's all right
Audience applause break how the f**k did thor know where to go
He's not gonna unsin this moment. It was awesome. How could he it's like the best moment in the movie
He hardly rips any sense for this entire film
There were a lot of opportunities for that and I don't think anyone would really have minded to be honest
Well, he's got more dislikes on this one than usual right like it
He and a couple people
But I guess that happens whenever he takes on a movie that's loved all of the comments are like
Like all of the top comments on his video are people correcting him about stuff which this is the thing
I think if he had better writing that wouldn't be happening like you'd be okay
This one thing that's really interesting to me is uh one time they did a switch over episode with
Honest trailers where honest trailers did an episode of cinema sins and cinema sins did an honest trailer and
It's my opinion. I haven't I haven't looked in it. I haven't assessed it properly
um, but
From my opinion of it
The screen junkies version the honest trailers version of a cinema sins video. The writing is so much sharper
It's just like here's here's uh, someone who actually has like a real like
Like a good writing team behind it doing a cinema sins video. Yeah, generally
I don't watch cinema sins, but from what i've seen of the writing on this it's just like
really first drafty lazy
Just not yeah, it's not good. It's not whatever or witty really
um
so
I looked at the video
Because I wanted to see how many dislikes they had and oof. There's a lot but
I looked at the comments
And I feel like I have to read this one out because it's breaking my brain at the moment. Okay
Um, it's by a man called cremit the frog premit
Yeah, and he says
If the people who caused the big bang
George bush
Actually thought this through they would have had about one million infinity stones just to make sure they couldn't be reunited
And i'm i'm struggling to understand what he meant by george bush created the big bang
Like I just don't get it there's there's a lot to break down from that
I like it. Oh you guys were like this
So because i've been checking my twitter obviously because of uh the bebs
You know that thing we read out the beginning with the guy who said that I hate movies with minority or female protagonists
And that i'm sympathetic for genocide
He said that i've taken him out of context
And I guess a fan of mine made him
And a fan of mine is like you're gonna tell us what the context is
He said I do his work for him and he said that i've hurt his pride. I was like you
Wait, wait, you have hurt his pride. No, he's hurt my pride. That's why i've done this is what he's saying. Oh
Done what there is no context that justifies you saying I hate movies with minority or female protect
You need to read that super chat. Holy shit
The big bang was an inside job
But that's some delusional shit like what context could make it look good that you're accusing me of
Sympathetic for genocide
I mean what context makes george bush creating the big bang makes sense. You know what you've taken that guy out of context
I read it for beta. No
No
Well mola can you name a single movie with a minority protagonist that you actually like I did in my tweet
The
First what I thought of because I'd watched it recently and for how interesting it was that it wasn't politicized was predator 2
You got a black lead with two hispanic go leads
And then a white guy as well
Look lord of the rings had so much diversity. It had the
hobbits
How many movies do you see with hobbits dwarves?
dwarves
wizards literal orcs
Orcs don't think that counts. There's a lot of orc representation and urukai and nazgul
And cave trolls and goblins. We brought up men in black today. I actually really like men in black
The first one i'm not sure about the second one, but I remember liking the third one and uh, I know the movie's not perfect
But I do still like I am legend. I don't think I imagine
But then you have to you know, the problem with this is that they might have some kind of weird thing where they go
No, that doesn't count because x
Why wouldn't it count will smith is like the only person in that movie
It doesn't because because they're weird like that
They've accused me of not liking any movies with minorities as leads
So of course, they're not going to let me get away with it that I like a thing with the minority lead
That means their narrative isn't quite correct
Um, yeah, no
The reason I find it hard to think about is because I don't think about that shit
It's like what movies do you like with minorities? I've never categorized films as
Have minority leads. I just like good characters
So then it's like I have to look through them and it's like oh, yeah, I guess
um
Female protagonists like well, you can just roll out aliens like every single time
Just for some reason people think that that movie never existed
intimidated too
It's like one of my favorite films of all time since I was a kid. It's like oh, yeah
That's I mean, that's john connor's a protagonist technically, but sarah connor is absolutely a fucking main character
Um
Last samurai my favorite character was katsumoto. He was asian. I doesn't count
He's a he's a male. He's probably cisgender too
There was theme. Well, there was a female in the movie
I remember seeing one
Kill bill, like i'm pretty sure she's a girl, right uma thimmons of woman
We confirm
want to ask, um
Ah, yeah, so tiring. Uh, anyway, let's carry on go once he got his new axe
Why'd he go to earth instead of titan? Why not new york or norway? Thor doesn't even know
Well, how would he know what's going on on titan?
I don't well, so the question is why does he go straight to the wakanda fight who could have?
Let him know that's where he needs to go
I got nothing sure
Yeah, but still titan that's not
Then the question is like if he just knows where everything fucking is for some reason then why wouldn't you go to titan and again?
I've got nothing. I don't know how he knows to come here. I don't know how he doesn't know not to come here
I don't know anything
They don't explain that
so
You know the best I could think is like I don't know the axe told him
The axe has his own little internet attached to it. That's how it works
Yeah, it's got the dust and a lazy entail rules where the axe just talks to you
Bad cgi floating head bruce gives me nightmares. Yeah, I don't like yeah, that's what it looks really really bad
I'm not sure how to fix it exactly
I'm gonna don't do it. I think it's the lighting isn't it? It must be the lighting. Yeah. Also. Yeah, that's that's all good rex will
Thanks. Yeah, I've been up for ages
Next efap will be the three of us playing aliens colonial marines. It'll be great
We figure it will be fun that sort
I mean, do you want to should I do one more run around with memes before you go just to see the ones that have been made
Yeah, sure. You bet. All right, so it'll be easy. We just do an efap. But instead of watching a video we play a game
Well, yeah, we'll have to testix. I don't fucking know that it'll be really weird
But i'm pretty sure we'd be able to pull it off. How long is the game?
No, that's a problem. No, it's only like four hours
Okay, so it's super short. It's like half the length of a normal efap
There's a couple of um ones responding to the whole wolf mouth of sauron thing. So
Oh my god, that's nightmarish
Oh god my lord you scream
These smiles
Three of the four i've got are all
But that uh
Is absolutely just we've we've got the entries you don't have the light on
Wow, wow
Who made that horrifying sketch of the balloon dog thing yeah
Oh man
We got some good artists in our community genuinely beautiful, um
What's that thulwinter earth
So someone said thulwinter earth because he knows there are two stones there
He doesn't know about titan at all. The question is how did he know to go to wakanda?
Specifically that he went to the perfect spot at that point. I'm sure actually that's a good question
I don't think he does everybody on earth know about wakanda now
He hasn't been to earth for like years because he's been in ragnarok times and stuff
But either way, uh, it's a really good position for him to land exactly. That's all
um
But yes, that's if you want to get going rags. Thank you for being on for so long and sleep well
Oh you bet that was really good. That was really good. Yeah, we've only got five six minutes left. We'll get there
Yeah, make sure you go buy the terrible game
Oh, it's already it. Oh, yeah
Yeah, i'm already very mauler
Now it's your turn you got plenty of super jets to pay for it. That's that's true
It's like we'll read i'll read the rest of them out once we get through this video. We're nearly there. We're doing it
Yeah, we faced extinction. I also see it. Goodbye. Mr x solution genocide, but random
His passion is fair to rich and poor alike
You know, it would be awesome since the death snap doesn't discriminate if it killed thanos, too
Imagine thanos actually deciding for the greater good that he could even die with such a snap
We don't know that he didn't decide that we just know that he survived like half of the people in the universe did
Didn't he um, he looks at himself in the dream state that he goes into
As if to imply he's like i'm still here
Okay
Mahler the screen. Oh shit
You see this is what i'm here for i'm sorry
Okay, though, uh, yeah, that's um
That's weird
This is that you don't really know that that's not the case
I think it would have been a cool line to have in this though
Though I know that for a fact cinema sins would be complaining though. He'd just be like, oh fucking conveniently survived the snap
Like it's 50 50
Guess what you don't have the balls for that all six stones I could simply snap my fingers
They would all cease to exist. Why though? Why a snap and not an okay sign or salute or
A lot of his sins are just asking why
It's like
I don't know. Jeremy
I don't know why it's a snap
But why not a snap? I don't know little finger or the shocker
Be fair. I think it should be the shocker. That's true
I feel like with just the four stones he currently possesses. He could easily end this fight right now
Yes, he turns all this rubble into like bats or whatever and it's like why not just turn iron man into bats?
Or sludge
Why not turn any of them into anything and for some reason Thanos just doesn't and it's like hmm. Okay
You see my answer to that specifically would be um
I assume he's trying to permanently kill iron man
The effects of the reality stone appear to be temporary from what we've been sure sure but it neutralizes them
So yeah, just walk up to him then and stand on his face
I feel like you wouldn't be able to kill him once he was bat
Yes, but it would make it so that you could take these guys out much easier right
Yeah, boom boom boom boom take them on one at a time with that
Yes, snap is cooler. Whoever says, you know, that's why he snaps because it can currently manipulate all the energy in the world
Reality itself and let's not forget control all life in the universe with three of those stones
What he can't use the stones if he doesn't close his fist since when moving and um, I thought they were consistent on that
Is that not true? Yeah, I mean it's not like
The stones are powerful, but he does need a way to wield them and communicate to them what he wants them to do, right?
I was going to say I thought is there a time of the movie where he's using them and he's not doing something with his fist
I thought he always closed his fist
I think he does
And if he's if his problem with this
He says since fucking when and i'm saying that I thought it was always that way and then why as for why i'd be like well
How do the stones know to be used versus not used?
I mean clearly it's not just him closing his fist clearly. There's like some kind of, you know
Telepathic or whatever element to it because you know, he's able to make them do basically anything by closing his fist, you know
I what he should have sinned here is that he rips the uh, the cloak that upset me that that thing does not deserve
I didn't even notice he did that. It made me sad. It's like don't rip that thing
It's friendly
And fucking why movie honestly for a bunch of all powerful when they're combined together magic space gems the infinity stones are super restrictive
That punch somehow doesn't kill peter
What why would it kill pizza?
Why you could punch but he's he's super strong super genitive and he has an eye in the helmet
What I wanted to bring up there was also the um
He says the the stones are super limited when it's not the stones that limit
The gauntlet like how he's interacting with the stones
It's limited not the stones themselves the thing that was built to wield the stones is the limited thing. Yeah
That's fair
That was a good punch. But I mean peter isn't just a guy he's got lots of things
Isn't it a lot of people talk about how spider-man is probably one of if not the most opie avenger outside of stuff like thor
Is he yeah because he's got a lot of powers like
A lot of really good powers. Like he's really strong spider-man from what I know
There's got to be a spider-man nude in in the chat who can answer that question
So I have heard from several people who really like spider-man that that's the case specifically
Spider-man. Do we have any confirmation that he is that power level? Oh, well
Not yeah in the mcu he's
Okay
From what I well think about this the fact that he he closes a winter soldier's punch with his metal arm
with ease
like peter's strong
Also, he's precognition I guess 20 times his weight like an almost
Stones are super restrictive
That punch somehow doesn't kill peter god damn that was a punch
Okay, how many times do we see someone like it horribly beat the shit out of and they don't die in these movies
Well, that's your opinion
I mean look what happens to thor when he fights the hulk
Or what happens to loki when he also fights the hulk a lot of people have been beaten to shit
Yeah, and well, we we kind of just went over it was like he's also
Superhuman and he also has a suit of armor. So I don't know
How can all these superheroes be so emotionally wound up to make the same fatal mistake when they hear about losing their loved ones?
Yeah, sure. It's within his character to do this, but i'm seeing the movie that this is the reason why thanos escapes
Hey, there you go. That's like one for one. How you feel?
Yeah
And I don't necessarily disagree
um
I do get frustrated if people say it's out of character, but if they don't and they just say it's
Then yeah, I'd bring in my other criticism, which is
Once we see endgame, we will know the answer to this
But why didn't dr. Strange just stop peter from doing that and then they just beat thanos that way what happens then?
Yeah, my problem was more just it was kind of cliche
Clich within the mcu or like how many times in movies have you seen this happen?
Seen this exact scenario pop up. I
Obviously only this time but I mean like the whole
Someone loses their shit and because of that it fucks up everything
I'd have to think of some examples for you, but
To show you something
Oh god, what's this one? Oh my god. Oh my god
That's amazing
He's carrying a baby, right
If you saw this stream with no context of what efap is you'd never be able to understand would you?
What is this nonsense?
Yeah, I mean it's been so long since we last saw jared that there's probably people who watch us regularly
That don't understand this myself included
Plasma warrior said there was no other way from dr. Strange. Come on maula as I said once we see endgame
Once we see what the plan was
Which is going to end with some people definitely staying dead
Uh, I will be criticizing this film for not being able to just do this
What is preventing dr. Strange from knocking star lord away from this fight? I don't understand
I just want to appreciate it
So all this way in his endgame to provide me a reason why he couldn't do that if endgame does that fair enough
If endgame does not do that, then
But yes, go on so I just want to appreciate how glorious the cgi is right there. Oh, yeah, the fantasy show is amazing
Someone said I just came back from a shower and I see fucking jared hugging
Mantis has thrown several hundred feet away from thanos spidey reacts to this and apparently can jump said amount of feet before mantis lands
Well, he finally answers the yeah, that seems like he he must have jumped really fast
But um, he could do that low gravity there, so I suppose he would have had the time
I don't know
Question I've never asked
About what happens when a film character uses a bruce almighty moon as a projectile and i've got to say I should have asked
This question years ago, but also everybody survives the moon's meteor shower. So you can see the bind i'm in
I know we like him and she loves him. But honestly, I mean, yeah
Iron man gets hit by it. You get that spider-man dodges all of it
Which if there's going to be a character that can dodge a meteor shower, it would be spider-man, right?
Yeah, I mean you can tell the future
Yeah, uh to clarify again, so if dr. Strange prevented star lord from hitting thanos they got the glove off him
And then killed him
And then something worse happens
Somehow like something goes even wronger then yeah, you got me
But I don't see what they're gonna do to explain that
But I suppose we shall see kill his ass and destroy the stone you idiots
Isn't that the conflict in the film what he's describing here
I guess he's saying that they should kill them sooner
That's precisely what is happening vision is actually in favor of what jeremy is saying
It's just the other characters don't want to kill him
Which is what I thought was the running theme in this movie that no one wants to sacrifice
A single person to save the greater collective even though it's the most pragmatic choice
But if I remember from my comment section this uh, I can't remember specifically but he contradicts himself with this sin
I will see if I can find something on it if
Does it stake not once during this battle do we see if they're making any real progress? Oh, he does use that thing
Just a bunch of quickly edited fights that act as filler until thanos gets here that's true, but is that
The negative I mean it's a battle I was gonna say like
You know, i'm not a huge fan of how this battle takes place
But now they have to show people fighting because that what else would be happening
I don't understand the problem here. Sure. It's kind of cool to see bucky pick up rocket and perform a 360 death ballet
But in the end who cares about this stupid army?
It's like watching the harlem globe drawders beat the washington point that we we like it just to see all these new characters interacting with each other
Yeah, I mentioned if like at the pellin or fields rohan like breaches the oracle line and then it just ends and we
Go we skip to when they win
Yeah, it's like we don't need fill it guys
but yeah, uh
bucky and rocket interacting cap and groot interacting thorne cap interacting
They're the bits that everyone loves in this in the brokanda sequence
The pack them killing these random dog things. Yeah, no one really cares. You got me. That's true
I found the uh, I found the contradiction. He uh earlier he says uh
That there's no way star lord would kill gamora because he loves her so much and now he says yeah
But they should kill vision even though they love him
Well the the convenience of sinning, isn't it? It's like you'll just sin
Even if it's just whatever happened in it
Michael bay coaches both teams after thor's arrival where he thunder groot axed everyone seeing him punch foes one at the time here
Makes me wonder why he doesn't just keep doing that first thing. Okay
Wait, so he's saying that you should just activate the by frosts over and over again
No, no, like the aoe that he has like swing the axe around which I actually don't think is a unfair criticism
I mean, yeah, that's fine. I mean it would it would be boring as shit, but
practically
That could actually work pretty well
Yeah, I don't really know how thor's power works if he has to charge it up or he has to wait
He's got he's got a cool down timer. Sure
Like notice you've copied my beard. He's only at level 60. Okay
There's no one to fight for a few seconds
So we can have a fuck off
We we just love the fact that they got to say something to each other
You can't let him have that you have to be like guys you keep fighting humorous exchange about hair
dicks
What
Why was she up there all this time because scarlet witch was there to destroy the mind stone
As sure he got it out of vision jeez lady. Who do you think you are? You're worse than cinema sins
I'm not saying I like is he proud of himself for that
Hey, we made a self-aware joke. That means we're okay and all of the bad things that we said don't count
Yeah
You know what? Good on you. Jeremy. I wish you'd do that a bit more
But hey look it's help late. Hey, we're being lazy, but we know we're being lazy. So it's okay
um
The Wakandan battle rhinos i'm just saying they would have been super useful in this battle. I agree vision x machina
He should be vomiting magenta rhinos
He should be vomiting magenta computer code at the point at this point
But somehow he's the strength to stand grab a weapon and kill a fool
Why would we not expect him to be able to do those things?
He's been stabbed but that just stopped him from phasing and it made him a lot weaker. It didn't make it didn't like immobilize him
He's I feel like he's desperate to make this a sin
The fact that he said he should be and then all these things when we have no reason to assume that he should be doing all
These things you can say that about a lot of these things
Well, the one of the major criticisms. I know that he receives is x machina not being x machina
And this is just a really great example of x machina not being x machina vision does not come out of nowhere
Vision is not able to do this for no reason
he
This whole seed is about vision. Like I just
Sometimes you just you can't say anything. You just have to go. You know what i'm just gonna i'm just gonna stop saying things
Peter co can't wait until we get our vision solo trilogy
Oh, yes
But somehow he just runs around zapping people of his forehead and he meets some kind of guy and he's like
What's your name? And then he's like v and then he goes watch your people and he goes I have no people and he goes hmm
Vision stop
Stop stop. We are not doing that
The stand grab a weapon and kill a fool. Come on movie have just 25 more consistent. Wow, really he doubled on this as well
Jeremy
Holy this fight between strange and thanos is first of all amazing as I'll take off two sins for it
Sometimes take off like 10
Yeah, the number he takes off is pretty arbitrary, but I feel like yeah
I remember the uh, the force awakens trailer where he took off every sin for Han Solo
Well, yeah, I mean I thought the the the 1v1s with thanos and docstrain and thanos and imm were amazing
But also it's so we bring up the force awakens trailer. I remember he also
uh sinned
Just Han Solo having something in his pocket
That he didn't know what it was. It's like, I don't know what that is sin. I'm like
Amazing this is you're sending a trailer. This is this is what you're gonna run into you're not gonna know
like
Yeah, he's desperate for content. I guess
So long that it makes the group fight against thanos that came before it seems silly and wimpy and underwritten
So iron man shield can apparently withstand that good to know it's not like these stones are the most powerful fucking objects in the universe or
anything
So the question is should iron man be able to withstand the power of that for a few seconds. Yes or no
I think it's pushing it. I think it's it's 50 50. Yeah, it's like
Well, how much technology does iron man need to be able to put up with that?
I don't know and also like have to know like what kind of energy is being shot out of his hand. Anyway, so
I'm i'm happy to concede that he shouldn't be able to
Put up with that but I mean why man does lose this fight just fyi
I'm thinking what do we see like the power stone?
not to destroy in guardians
Also, uh matthew said it does fail to withstand it
It's like it does put up with it for even a few seconds and I guess sins is saying
Cinema sins is saying that uh, it shouldn't even be able to do that
And they do vaporize ronin with that power in guardians
And it is pretty op, you know
Someone said uh, I think robert downey jr's paycheck for avengers can withstand a few seconds of the power stone
This is very true
Cap that's him man. He skipped right past all the iron man thing
Surprised but okay, he skipped past most of titan. Yeah, that arrival needed some kind of narration or verbal confirmation
What what's the he he's the only person who has seen thanos correct out of all these guys
Assuming you know because for some reason he has the memories of hulk if he's not supposed to oh wait
What do you think every purple person is thanos?
You racist
But you know, that's clearly not for the audience because we know it's that I don't know whatever i'm not even 100 sure of what
His problem is there. I understand my child better than anyone
If we're about to see a reenactment of spike lee's old boy here i'd only like to see one specific scene the soul stone
I know I don't get that joke
I don't get that joke. There's there's a scene where she gets a little bit naked with uh with with
Thanos is played by uh, josh brolin who is in old boy
and scarlet witch is played by
elizabeth alson who is in that boy
yes, and those two have have have the the the uh
You can't see because it's just so explicit. They do things
In the film, you know
He wants to know that makes a weird kind of sense, but that's so weird seeing him in deadpool 2 and then seeing him here
Okay, why don't you talk about it in deadpool 2 don't they
I think so
They call him Thanos. Yeah, most people don't like the the remake versus the original as far as I know
They do the nasty
Is the only one to demand a sacrifice so you it was a wild ball or expected better you referring to a specific
scene sin or something specific
I'm not or you referring to the fact that I was being coy about
Thanos and scarlet witch having their way with each other understand its power
But the mind stone is the largest one and takes up the leader position of all the stones in the glove
Honestly, should anything be able to yeah, I don't know. I don't know why that that's that way either
Wait, did he did he say that you had a problem with that or did you just say it?
When you said it and then he rolled the dinger which would imply it's a joke or a problem or
It's either something or it's not something it's one of those two
I just said words
Honestly, should anything be able to defeat the glove anything be able to defeat that glove right now
Let alone a new axe that we only just learned about we now interrupt this
I will grant that all of the infinity stones in a single glove
I I feel like just the axe shouldn't be able to defeat them
But the fact that we just learned about it has nothing to do with that
yeah, like um
in terms of power levels you wouldn't expect the thing that's much easier to construct compared to
The gauntlet plus all the stones to defeat the gauntlet and all the stones, but you know, it's
They they tell us that apparently that's how it works to me. I thought it was silly that it overpowers the glove
Or gauntlet, but it ultimately thanos does still win
So I wonder if thor was successful
That the problem would have been you know
Oh, that's pretty convenient that you managed to make a weapon that stopped him that was way easier to construct than collecting six stones
Across the universe, you know, it's complicated. But uh, yeah, I don't think how would you do that scene though?
Would you have it so the axe is propelled away, but thor still somehow
Gets a strike in I guess I would have it maybe so that thanos is taken by surprise by thor
Maybe throws the axe thor boosts the axe back thor grabs it in midair as it's coming back and swoops
Underneath the the beam and then stabs him with it. Maybe something like that. Sure just to make us be more satisfied
I feel like it's fine as it is, but the power levels do feel a little yeah, it's yeah, it's it's complicated and and
Do I think they could have done it better? Yes
Of harry potter and the deathly hallows starring josh brolin is dumblemore
Here comes the part of the movie where the snap of death plays again. Can you see how similar they are?
What now?
the uh harry potter, uh, the deathly hallows and that scene from infinity war
I can't even remember the deathly hallows. Honestly, i'm pretty sure the scene he's referring i'm guessing that the scene he's referring to is
The one that the train station like right after he dies. Yeah
Because then this sort of what's that's that
They
what
Not only do they not serve even remotely similar purposes, but they don't even look remotely the same
Exactly. I i'm not even sure how we can tell what scene he's referring to because I can't think of any real
Interesting game who's gonna live and who's gonna die and apparently it takes its time picking and choosing because all the dramatically relevant deaths
Wait for each other so we can see them all rather than happening at the same time
I think I think it's safe to assume that these things happen at similar times
But we just see all these guys. It's not gonna split the screen 16 ways
The only argument he would have you took that joke from me what I know. Oh, that's true. You did make that joke
How dare you you should ban him?
Just ban him from life
kick v
Limitation is the purest form of flattery. That's true. He fluttered you
Which is a good thing
But yeah, the only time you could say is on titan where they all disappear one by one and like one cut
So it's just like yeah, okay
Uh, but again
I don't know. How does this work? How is it supposed to work? I don't know
How fast are people supposed to tear the dust I don't know
Oh his gun stays solid, but the new vibranium arm turns to dust
And his clothes do
And I feel it's kind of weird but it's that you've got to draw
I mean, I guess it would make more sense if everyone's like clothes fell where they were before in in buffy when vampires are in
A mirror they go they can't they have no reflection, right? But their clothes don't either and then you're like wait
What about things they're holding and then what if they grab somebody do they go invisible?
Like how does this work? And obviously the show never answers that because I don't think there is an answer for that
I don't think there's an answer for this either
You know, yes, you're right cinema sense. I don't know how that works. I don't I don't think anybody does
Well, it's distressing to see your favorite characters wasting away
Don't you just know they're all going to be back?
I mean the interesting part to me is that I don't know which will be back entirely. I know a couple of guarantees
There are some where i'm like, I wonder they might kill them
I feel like the snap is going to be fully undone and then the people who die are going to be
killed off by different things
Okay, that could happen too that is that that is what I mean that is what I was assuming would happen. I don't know
Really what i'm basing that on but you know, I assume that everyone who's snapped away is going to be coming back
and then maybe some of them will die anyway, but
The snap will be fully undone is my guess
This kind of death scene is reminiscent of twilight breaking dawn part two where the movie stage is a free for all
Referencing twilight you
Stage is a free for all with death galore and show us that it was a vision
I actually know about that scene because I did actually watch that movie
um
You you it's not not by choice
We'll happily admit that. Um
But yeah, they show like you should never admit to this
Isn't it like everybody gets brutally murdered and then it's it's like the future vision that someone shows the bad guy and then the bad guy
It's like oh shit. Okay
I don't know. I don't watch twilight
I as it is my understanding that it is what happens
yeah
um, so
To death everybody and then undeath them. I guess is I don't know why you need to compare to twilight breaking dawn part two
In order the ultimate movie humiliation being compared to breaking dawn
Only to show us that it was a vision like a new chapter of final destination with sexy vampires
It has emotional impact as an idea, but absolutely none because you know, it will be reversed
There was no other way glad you could mention this just before you waste away into nothing
I hear the snap loves letting people have final words before they go
Yeah
Respond to things like that
You managed to speak before you went to dust what the fuck it's like
Yeah
Apparently you had that amount of time. I don't know. Jeez. Did thanos move out into camas. Not sir
Whatever the fuck that was in a wrinkle in time
You know what that means. Chris fine is gonna complete the chris quadfecta in avengers four. Whoo
Yeah, by the way, you can't judge me for watching that you watched a wrinkle in time twice wolf
um
That's at least hilarious
I don't know how hilarious breaking dawn part two could be if I had an alcohol
I guess it's a good thing. Nick Fury always carries around his captain marvel ex machina pager with him where
Why ex machina again?
Those he literally just inserted those words like
Hey, I need more words in the sentence
The convenience is not that he has it
It's that he was able to activate it in time because if the whole point of this
Is to activate what does he say?
Code something when he sees people start turning to dust. Samuel jackson. He says something like he says motherfucker. No, no, no the
Says something like code red or code one or something like that as if to imply
We're dealing with something that's extremely bad
And then he immediately goes for this
So
Like I said, it would be convenient that he managed to get it done right before he got pooped, but it's not captain marvel ex machina
Not no wherever he goes and that the snap waited for him to use it
But um, I feel like you could have you could have criticized this movie a little more
Um, but he also could have praised it a hell of a lot more too. I don't know
Like with his structure, I always expect him to do more of the he celebrates the really big payoffs
But he sort of you know, like the one with thor smacks down to the ground you'd think he'd want to
Go like that was awesome ding ding ding ding
I don't know
I don't the the sin removal always confuses me because there are so many
Opportunities he has to do it that he doesn't take and I don't know what makes the difference
He's a very strange man strange content creator
I don't know that reference
That same yeah as all could it be all of guys because it sounded old and it's always like to do with
Wicked witch of the west getting melted in the wood. Oh, I think that probably is it the
Um
Yeah, the green witch getting watered to death is my guess
I have no idea. Is that what happens in that film?
Chat
What was that reference to
We'll find out i'm sure but yeah that was
That was that it took us way longer than we should have been that was 22 minutes over five hours. That's a
Certainly a record
Well, it doesn't help that me and rags decided to fight several times
Elevator music fixed it. It's fine
Did you actually play elevator music for the stream at one point? Yeah
Never thought was really happy about it
Um, I'll have to watch the replay
I'm uh, i'ma read out some super chats and then we'll probably do our outro because my goodness
It's it's genuinely actually five hours. Um
Jordan peterson is building his own alternative to patreon for free speech
Eventually all democrats will be on twitter and youtube and all republicans will be on bit shoot and gab left is going radical
Oh god, who knows what's going to happen?
That's why I wanted to stay off that topic until we see more results
But I mean we have sort of talked about it a lot with me and rags
So we'll see I suppose uh for sin sins his describe my favorite gladiator joke had me in stitches keep up the great work and thank
Thanks for making my commute less boring
Cheers
That was i've actually got um a lot of criticism for that joke. So don't don't um
Be happy be happy take it
Uh
See my super chat. I wasn't here. I've read all of them out. So I
Should have but i'm not sure which one it would be
When are you publishing the efap lore book slash grimoire slash omnibus? Um
They're all they're all ready. They're all out there. You can
You can totally do it
Uh bets on the awesomest foul movie turning out like the percy jackson movies. That series really went downhill midway through
I've not read them. I think the uh, I read the first three and then never really finished percy jackson
I think the awesomest foul, uh movies are gonna start low and then continue to be low if they are continue to be made
If they are continue to be made sure let's go with that
Um, hey the video isn't on screen. Well, thank you for that. Welcome back to efap. Mr j
Are they referring to wolf?
No j, hello, but he's been here the whole time
You left yeah
He hasn't been here for a while though. I was on efap before and now i'm on efap again
I okay, that does make sense. I I thought they would have been referring to wolf leaving and coming back
It's been a long day. It's been a long day
I don't normally like degenerates like rags and wolf, but it's christmas and your channels are growing on me
We can come together to celebrate the travesty that is cinema sins. That's beautiful. That's a very beautiful message
The big bang was an inside job
I don't remember that one george bush created a big bang so that kyle ben could drink my rhino milk with bilbo baguins
See, I wonder if mark boggio the one who did that
I wonder if he knows where the bilbo baggage beam comes from because i'm starting to be convinced that nobody even knows
Is that from the first efap it's from
A stream on wolf's channel from well before efap was a thing
Oh, I was covering jared before it was cool. And yeah, and it's it's it's like
I wonder if
I wonder if people know who's your favorite female author gq jordan peterson interview. Mine is deborah muck doesn't exist
Who's your favorite female author wolf?
Um, hmm, wow sexist let let me look behind me because i'm sure i'm gonna fucking
Actually, you know what michelle paver
She's I haven't read her books in fucking forever
But chronicles of ancient darkness was like my favorite book series ever as a kid
So I say her
Also albanadi if i've missed it just at me in chat with what the super chat had I guess uh
Did you as non-doctor someone said iron rain?
Dr. Strange had already seen every possible outcome and letting starlord free thanos probably was the only way to make the sure
They'd ultimately went like I said, we'll find out in endgame if that makes sense. Uh cinema sins doesn't understand cinema
I mean he understands some of it
I don't think that he's 100 awful. Would you say that jay?
No, I think that he has merit
He just fills his videos with a lot of stuff that doesn't need to be there
Yeah, and he gets a lot of stuff wrong to the point where you're like, okay
You did that on purpose then and then you find out that he apparently does it on purpose and you're like, oh why?
Uh, if thanos closed his fist, it would be physically impossible to pull off the gauntlet. Uh
Well, not while he's asleep, right?
Or in whatever stance thing he puts him in just just tear the stones out of the gauntlet
Why not just shoot him in the head with a bizzle?
Can you imagine iron man doing that and he just falls over and the gauntlet comes off and just like oh my god
I think it was just another request to look at linkara's video. Oh, okay. He says that tfa is not a retread of a new hope will
Linkara is welcome to think whatever he wants
He's just unfortunately horribly wrong a little bit horribly wrong. Yeah
um
But yes, that is all of the super chats. Um
Oh before we leave it's we probably aren't going to pause it too much
but
just
I I think
I think we have to I think we're obligated to
All right that one. I know this is gonna be
You know
Yeah, of course, you know, I described it to you
You know what?
Shut up. Whoops
What the fuck install extension
This is from youtube though, yeah, why is it telling me that
Oh
I wonder if this has been claimed. I don't know if this is enough to prevent it from being claimed
Posing it every like 10 cycles or so is probably gonna be wise if you don't want to get claimed. That's true
We'll have to do that. You're gonna pay for all the jedi that you killed today. Dooku
Why am I anakin?
Why am I yoked
No, I'm sorry
Rex is what what the hell bro
Oh, I feel bad that I have to keep pulls in
Oh my god, he's a quick
Oh my god, he's a quick
You know, I thought this was just the unadulterated scene with the with the icons on there
I didn't know that they put the audio from our streams in
I can't wait to see what he says about you
I
Because a lot of this this must be the whole scene like I can't see how it would have been cut down
And this is the thing that
Is that they're all just fucking computers and yet they make it seem like they're different they're all just machine
So
Wait, are those dog barking sounds I think so. Yeah
Oh my god, it's it's game it's game the job
If you wanted a pc that ran the same as xbox
It still would have been more. I don't care what anybody tells me
Oh
What the fuck are these noises
Fuck I don't know when to actually pull to be honest
According to james ralph
Oh
God not this one. I know what song's playing. I covered this on one of my podcasts
I think it was before I even met you mauler
It was some cringe furry rap
Oh, wait, it's actually quite loud for
I wonder if they actually say from copyright with how big the pictures are
Fuck anyways guys
Anyways
Hello there ladies and gentlemen
Oh my god, you're going to spoil everything about the films
I
This is so much better than I ever thought
Why have I never been made aware of this it's been out for two months and I nobody told me about it
I I only just stumbled upon it
Affairs for the last time powerful you have become
The dark side I sense in you I've become more i'm just waiting for jared results
I don't really have much of a comment nor do I really
You
You still have it is obvious that this contest cannot be decided by our knowledge of force
But by our skills with a lightsaber
What a strange quote for you
Have you seen the predator video like the the kids in the film call him ass bigger and i was like, yeah
I guess i'll call him ass bigger
And i'm sorry for the spoiler there
What a fucking nightmare
Is
This would have taken a decent amount of time to make by the way, I know
Oh
But well you have
My old bad run, this is just the beginning
Mark hamill is an amazing dude
You know, he seems like a really genuine guy like you're not gonna find many people like that
It's like dad
You can totally make soundboards for all of us apparently I guess so
Oh
Who wrote this
That's amazing
That's uh everyone i'm spamming this link in the chat
Don't like this video that is too good
Wait, I mean are you spamming it? I can't see it. Yeah, I just spammed it
Oh, yeah the guy even um
apparently he
Noticed when I mentioned him two hours ago, and he said I got mentioned on efap
I didn't understand any of that, but I loved it
Genuinely for the two of us. This is amazing efap one two three or one and two or whatever like
Jared is a miracle that happened to the internet
Um, and this is important lore
Yeah, I can't believe that was a thing we just watched. Um
I don't know. I don't know how to wind down from that, you know
It's like where do we go from here?
Um, do you have a copy? Oh, did it hang on? Let me just get the actual youtube link from
Go to this uh link, okay
If it ever posts
There we go
apparently
And if the links don't work, it's literally called darth jared genesis versus jedi master mauler and wolf and rags
And then efap is in parentheses
capitalizes the f
Um
But yeah, uh, I guess first thing would be so
Thanks very much for guesting. Um, mr
Cincin's would you like to talk a bit about your channel at the end even though you've been here before you can be like, hey
I do other things. I have a garbage channel where I leech off other people's content to uh
Do nothing but get views
Um
It's it's all really bad
um
If like you've you've heard me on efap you've heard me
Brian and milken spiders can predict the future. So if you're curious like what actual stupid shit I say on my own channel
Uh, then then, you know
You can find out by
By giving it a click
Yeah, and I mean, you know if you liked what happened on the stream today, you'll get more of it on this channel
he does a lot of um
Telling cinema sins to just chill out, you know, sometimes you just need someone to do that
Even though there's a couple of them he does do it pretty well
so
would recommend
As for dude, he even got he even posted a video called when you get mentioned on efap
It's literally that it's a surprise to be sure but a welcome one scene we had uh,
There was a super chat when you were gone. Um asking
Uh, well, I was just gonna say do you want to say anything about potential future for your channel wolf?
Oh, uh, I don't know I'm
Focusing focusing for
Uh, i'm just focusing on other things right now
I don't really have any immediate plans for when i'm coming back to my channel
The specific thing was about your podcast. I don't know if you had um
Separate bones. Well, well, that's a part of my channel. So yeah, I don't really have any plans for it
But I will be on here. So who's that?
Well, fair enough for my channel you've got a video coming christmas and a video christmas did new year's eve
They're the two videos. The first one is
the tfa
analysis part one
All right, it's honest way i'm working on part two. It's gonna be a slow release
These things take way too long to make and then christmas god damn it new year's eve is um gonna be something else
uh
But yes, you got those those to look forward to I suppose and I think that about does it for efap number
19 I think this is we've we've nearly hit 20 episodes guys and efap number 20 shall be aliens colonial marines
That's very possible. I don't know when though. I don't know if we'll get another one done before the end of this year
No, I think that might be it. Yeah, it may be just like the beginning of january. Yes, so
So it's a ramstoker's chariot happy christmas and a merry new year everyone
Next year there'll be who knows what will happen all kinds of things
19 episodes of efap within however long we did which means, you know, we might even hit 100 in a few years, you know
Who knows so much potential that'll be like five million hours so many possible guests so many everything
Um, but yeah, that that's about it. Anything else anybody wants to say
Drink more rhino milk
Yes
Thank you all for the spider first
That's that's just a that's a given dude. Come on, but um, yes
Thank you all for watching. Thank you for the very kind donations and we shall see you next time you can catch
Sorry, obviously in the description. There is a link to the channel
This will be uploaded on if you guys want to see it past live
You'll be up there in I guess like five hours from now or something. But um
Goodbye all and good night
And good luck
