I'll get you guys links to the actual stream in a second.
I never get that on YouTube.
Is there an actual place I'm supposed to copy the link from on the actual,
like, streaming tab?
Well, I, I only do it through Google Hangouts, so I'm not sure.
I'm not sure how this process works.
Well, I will, it'll, it'll only take a moment, but, uh, we are
indeed live, I'm sure.
I could be all chatting in in a moment.
Uh, literally just talk about anything.
Oh, you know what?
There were, there were a few things as of the last defap, but obviously only
me and rag is going to be able to comment on this.
Oh wait, since I'm not seeing anyone chatting, it might actually be set
on, uh, private or some shit that that's happened before.
Where are you?
Oh, it was public.
Oh, there's somebody.
There we go.
It's, it's a Saturday.
So logically speaking, this should actually be preferable for a lot of
people who are just like outraged regularly that we, we do it at like one
a.m. on even American time and stuff.
But hey,
yeah, but Jesus Christ, it's Saturday morning.
Oh, that's true.
Me getting up.
I mean, it's like, holy shit.
I had to jolt myself with a shot of bourbon just to like open my fucking eyes.
Is it Saturday?
It's, it is Saturday.
Me and Rags at like really bad time.
Cause it was like, every day is the same.
It's a pitfalls from working from home.
So yeah, the last eFAB, a couple of people were like, we said something along
the lines of, um, we were criticizing him for saying there was a choice when that
happens a lot in superhero movies.
And the, we referenced the dark knight and someone was like, the dark knight
doesn't have any choices that they're the same as the one in Spider-Man.
And I was just going to clarify.
It's like literally just choices in general.
It doesn't have to be the exact same one.
Just having a superhero have to choose between saving X or Y, you know, it's
like, that's, and his point was if we saw that show up, that it would be.
Something people would be like, what the hell?
And I was like, no, that's, that's how it happens.
A lot of them.
And I think, I don't think there is a superhero movie where they don't make a
choice, it may not be like between life and death or something, but almost like
a part of the story that they choose to become a hero or whatever.
Um, but yeah, and, uh, there were a couple of people who were saying that they want
us to pause less and watch things in advance.
And I was just going to say, like, to clarify it's, uh, that's not what this is.
Uh, the podcast is supposed to be like reactionarily reactionary.
And, um, every frame of pause, you know, we just can't resist every frame.
Um, but we do, but we do try and correct the record.
If we make mistakes, that's obviously the, um, if you could call that a caveat, but,
um, we are always willing to take criticism though, if anybody's got
suggestions on like what we could do to improve that remains with that format,
that would be super cool.
We've already got rhino milk memes coming in.
That's fantastic.
Um, but yes, uh, a warm welcome to Dicta Vardumcock who's here today.
Uh, hello, sir.
How do you do?
Oh, Marler and hail to Mallers team here.
Hail to everyone out there in YouTube land.
This is Dicta van Doomcock broadcasting from the center of the earth and saying,
Hey guys, it's Saturday morning.
It is, it's, it's horrible.
We have to stream at a time so early, but, uh, yeah, you've, um, you've got a wonderful
channel where you review, uh, lots of, lots of different movies.
And, um, I think you've been, you've been taking Star Trek to task, uh, as a
recently, right?
Yeah.
Oh yes.
Yeah.
Star Trek and Star Wars are suffering from the same malaise of Canon corruption and
people who hate the franchise being in charge of the franchise, which really
doesn't generally work out well for the franchise.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, I've got no connection to Star Trek, even a little bit.
I've only ever seen the JJ Abrams ones, which I was just like, well, that was meh.
So you should watch, uh, the last generation is a good way to start.
Well, to be honest, dude, if I wanted to tackle Star Trek, I'd probably be like,
let's go from the beginning and go for the whole thing.
Let's get right into it.
Cause I got loads of friends who like swear by the next generation being one of
the best TV shows in existence.
So I'm like, Hmm, maybe should, uh, try it out.
I think the original series is the best.
I think next generation, I think they basically go in descending order of, of
greatness, but, uh, they are all vastly better than, uh, you know, STD, what I
call it, Star Trek discovery.
It's a disease of the mind.
Like syphilis, it gets in there and rots your motor functions, your cognition,
and, uh, eventually you die from it.
So yeah, that's, that's my opinion of Star Trek discovery.
Oh, that's, it sounds positive.
Um, and yeah, so next on the left then is smud boy returning for a second eFap.
Um, how are you doing today, sir?
Oh, thank you very much.
I'm doing well.
Excellent.
Um, you, you, you are a big fan of the last Jedi and you're here to defend it.
Correct?
Obviously.
Yes.
I'm here to refute every single point.
All of you wonderful gentlemen have in a very courteous manner, of course.
Excellent.
And then next to the left, right at the end is Daspu shit.
Who's been in the chat a couple of times for these things.
And he's finally evolved as a critic and managed to make it onto the actual cast.
I have, I have ascended.
I am now, uh, everybody knows me as a GMOD guy, but I have ascended.
I have evolved as a GMOD guy into a critic and then evolved from there.
And I haven't seen any complaints about sound, which means that we might actually
have nailed it this time without having to change anything.
So that's for a while.
It was really quiet.
Wasn't it?
Oh, it did.
It went from too quiet to too loud to two.
It's just, and I think without saying, I don't want to jinx it.
It's just, it's fine.
Someone's going to say, Hey, it could be better if you made someone something out.
And then I change it and then it all goes to hell.
So we're just going to carry on as if nothing's happened.
Um, but yeah, first thing, I think it'll be interesting to show you guys, uh, I'll
post it in the, in the things you guys can see it, but I'll be putting it on the
screen now, so in case you are like confused at what I'm showing everybody,
but, uh, the person we're covering is called Major Major Lee, I think.
And, uh, he's been requested quite a bit.
This video, people want to see what, uh, we have to say about it.
And of course we were just like, yeah, yeah, we'll give it a shot.
We'll give a shot.
And, um, I did a tweet a couple of weeks ago, I think I can't actually remember
where, um, I was celebrating hitting a hundred thousand subscribers and then
somebody quote, tweeted me and said, in other words, I had virtually no purpose
on YouTube until I made a six hour long review where I bitch about a 2.5 hour
movie now I have purpose.
Good for you really.
And I was like, who is this guy?
And I checked out his YouTube and I was like, Oh, he's the guy that made
the last Jedi video that was like, wow, he really doesn't like me.
And I just said that, like, I've had purpose from the beginning.
You can just check my channel.
The, the, the earliest stuff I've got is just me saying the media is good or bad
based on different decisions and stuff like that.
And the Star Wars was just another thing in line where I was like, right.
Time to shoot you down.
Cause of how terrible this has gotten and, um, and he's very friendly.
Um, I explained that and he said, that's so nice that you're proud of your videos.
I too am happy you were able to spread your bloated, unoriginal take of the
criminally underrated film.
I would flush that pride down the toilet if I were you.
So very friendly.
And he really likes me.
Um, and it's not, you know, that's fine.
Uh, absolutely.
Me and Rags will stand by it to the end of time that he's going to be welcome to
come on.
He could even call me the worst insults in the world and we would still allow him on.
Oh, and yeah, just for clarification for people who are still not following.
Dishonored Wolf is still not, not back on Efab yet, but he will be, he will be.
Don't be concerned forever.
He'll come back.
But I mean, probably best that he's not here right now, considering you'll be six
people and that would be insane.
Um, so that's enough buildup.
We're going to be tackling his video and checking out the best defense for the
last Jedi on YouTube.
Are you all very excited?
I'm, oh, I'm thrilled.
Seems very sure of himself.
Oh, he's, he's got, he's got some bad things coming, my friends.
He's got some bad things coming.
I could get through, I don't know, maybe actually about seven or eight minutes of
this thing before my head was about to explode right off my body.
So, uh, yeah.
You just can't take the logic bombs.
You just, you just hate him.
You just, I've got something to say about his, his technique, uh, in just a little
bit, but I don't want to speak out of turn.
All right.
Threw well, uh, yeah.
So anyone can pull it whenever they want.
Here we go.
Warning.
Finally, presentation contains cold, hard truths that might change the way you
think your discretion won't do you any good now.
T L is it too quiet for everyone?
Um, I'm using by the browser.
I'm, I'm using the browser booster thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you guys, hopefully it'll be loud enough for the stream, but hopefully
it is for you guys as well.
Okay.
Warning.
Finally, presentation contains cold, hard truths that might change the way you
think your discretion won't do you any good now.
I like the L L J you taste that tastes like close minded.
Whiny fan boy tears.
What a great start.
You know what I mean?
He's really priming us to have our mind changed.
That's what I mean.
The intro is like, you can get some cold, hard facts prepared to have your mind
changed.
Like you're an asshole.
You're like, Oh, well, that was stupid.
So what do you think they're cold, hard facts because they're half baked.
It's a, it's a controversial way to open, but I think he's, you know, he's
got a shot here that tastes like close minded.
Whiny fan boy tears.
If you have a problem with this scene, Luke grew up as a farmer.
He's always liked blue milk and farmers love drinking directly from the cows tit.
It's part of the job, isn't it?
I guess you, I mean, first of all, it's green milk.
So actually it's not the same color.
Like how dare you it's milk from a different animal.
I don't even know what you call that animal.
It's milk from different animals tastes different.
Yeah.
How does he know he likes it so much?
Just because he works at a farm and drinks, what's there?
It doesn't mean he likes it that much.
Does he like water?
If he drinks that enough, it's such a bizarre thing.
I've got something to say here, guys.
I've got something to say.
Uh, already this fucking review is shit.
Okay.
This is complete.
Wrap it up.
Idiotic leaps of logic and complete obfuscation spoken rapidly and with
conviction, this bullshit about Luke being a farmer who liked blue mill.
So it's perfectly acceptable.
He chokes down nasty green milk from a fucking manatee is bullshit because
Luke was a moisture farmer, moisture evaporators where his cattle and he
bought the fucking actual milk down at the Mos Eisley Walmart.
Is that true?
Yeah, that's definitely straight from the tap on tattooing cows.
Hey guys, for those of you who don't know, once it comes out of the
titty, it doesn't taste like it does.
When you get it at the supermarket, it's very true.
And besides, I, I'm my curious question is how many people were complaining
that it is, it doesn't make sense that a farmer would drink a milk from the tea.
But was that, was that commonly said?
Was that something that a lot of people were throwing out in videos?
I just said it was really weird.
I think it was the weird aspect.
Yeah.
It was like, we're spending screen time on this, I guess.
I know.
It's like, Luke says, you know, fuck off.
I don't want to do the line of duty thing.
I'm just going to go milk this cow now.
It's like, and he doesn't even like collect jars or anything like that.
He just goes over, grabs one bottle, drinks it up, and he's out.
And the Star Wars.
So that thing could not be an animal.
It could be an alien that's being molested.
That's true.
It could be disturbing.
You, you remember the way it looked at Ray.
Yeah.
I have like help while I was getting, while I was getting drained by Luke.
I, you know, speaking genuinely, when I saw that for the first time, I was
confused at what message they were conveying.
I was like, what are you saying with this?
Is that, was that, was that like, is this supposed to be funny?
Well, it's part of the anti-capitalist message because they're
exploiting the natural resources of, um, the, the beautiful bounty of
nature in order to, uh, sustain ourselves selfishly.
He probably didn't even ask consent.
He didn't seem to need it.
He was just, he was asking for it.
Come on.
The sea cow was very, it was very patriarchal of him to just assume.
Show me on the doll where the Jedi touched you on my leg nipple.
So yeah, we had, we had opened in, I don't know, counter argument, but
Hey, let's see, let's see where he goes next.
Farmers love drinking directly from the cow's tit.
It's part of the job, isn't it?
I guess you can't deny that this is a love it or hate it kind of film things.
I know a lot of people who think basically nothing of the film.
I know a lot of people who think it's a film.
I know a lot of farmers that don't do that.
So I don't know what the hell he's talking about.
I don't remember them ever like loving to drink.
I've, I've never heard of that.
Sorry.
Yeah.
The right opinion, by the way, he was a, I never saw fucking Eddie Arnold
sucking on a cow's tit on green acres.
That's like your opinion though.
You didn't check out the deleted scenes, dude, the grimoire carts.
Yeah.
The right opinion said that he, he both does not really like, it
does not really hate this film.
He thought it was just meh.
So sorry about the love, hate thing, but yes, you know, typically, typically.
In the force awakens, you might hate what was done to them in the last Jedi and
things that you hated in the force awakens, you might love what was done
to them in the last Jedi people clearly did not appreciate the fact that this
was one of the greatest scenes in all of star Wars history, because they were too
attached to their absolute dog shit theories about who this character was.
People certainly did not appreciate the excellent.
Wait, was that a, I'm, I'm trying to picture where arguments begin and end.
So he was saying that he's just saying that it was the greatest thing to
ever happen to Snoke was getting killed.
He says it's, is it arguably one of the best scenes in star Wars?
We didn't like because we expected something from Snoke.
Oh no.
Our theories, our precious theories rags.
Remember when we came into the, the fucking cinema with our theories
and it wasn't our books.
We were just like, no sneak them past the guy up front because you're not
supposed to bring volumes.
It sounds like though he's bringing up the scene where like rape
finally finds out who she is.
It sounds like that's where he's going with this.
Oh, that one.
Yeah.
But he's also talking about Snoke with me.
The, uh, that is, that is a horrible argument.
He's saying nothing is such a, the bet is the best team in the entire franchise.
I mean, it's a new, we're stuck anyway.
Cause he just said it's great.
That was it.
It was like, okay, let me know if you actually want to make an argument.
Our worst history because they were too attached to their absolute dog shit
theories about who this character was.
People certainly did not appreciate the excellent twists that raised parents
are actually nobodies because they were to say here, I'm sorry.
Let me, let me just get this out here.
Okay.
Uh, according to this fast talking used car salesman, it's a wonderful thing.
The fucking raised parents were nobodies and he mocks all the fans for thinking
that our parents must have been special.
A Skywalker, a Palpatine, whatever.
He says that would have been the most obvious choice in the
world that her parents were nobody special.
And that's bullshit.
None of us innately wanted or needed raised parents to be Palpatines or
skywalkers.
We were just desperately trying to plug the fucking plot hole that this
bland British bitch can use the force like a master without a day of
training in her life.
I mean, we're grasping at straws, trying to dispel the, the cognitive dissonance
that utterly ruins our suspension of belief.
When Ray is able to beat the shit out of Kylo Ren, who is so expert in the
force, he can actually stop a bolt of blaster energy in mid fucking air, all
without ever using a lightsaber before.
And without a little green man riding her ass through the swamps of Dagobah.
I'll have, you know, she downloaded her powers from Kylo Ren.
Okay.
It's in the can and it makes complete sense.
It was in for Skype.
Uh-huh.
The movie built it up.
It's like, it was kind of the movie that was saying like, Oh, look at this.
Ray's parents are pretty special.
I bet you're going to really want to see what it is.
It's like, Oh, nope, it's nobody, but it's kind of what happens.
We have expectations from a previous installment of a series.
Oh, we're expecting something to happen.
Yes.
Here's my imagination.
It doesn't matter if it's true or false.
I'm just speculating.
And then when we get Zippo, yeah, and he's just good, by the way,
he hasn't said anything.
He's just like, this is great.
It's like, okay.
Well, I think it would be one thing too, if like, if Ray didn't actually
bring her parents up at all, I'm going to mute my phone.
Sorry about that.
Um, Ray never, if never, if Ray never brought her parents up like at all
and like, she didn't really care.
I think people would probably be just a little more forgiving that
her parents were nobody, but they built it up.
So they did.
But I mean, we are really desperately casting around for some explanation
as to why she suddenly got the bestest Jedi ever.
She basically can use these powers.
Like it took Luke, uh, three movies to get to, right?
I mean, that's ridiculous.
And she's, she's beating someone who was trained by Snoke and Luke.
It's like, Hmm, seems like that person might have the upper hand to me,
but you're sure, why do you guys hate women?
How dare you.
All right.
Let's see what else he's got.
I'm waiting for an argument.
We still haven't really got one outside of the farmer's milk.
We haven't really got an argument.
Twists that raised parents are actually nobodies because they were
too obsessed with even dumber theories about who she was.
I've said it before and I'll say it again.
Each and every one of those Ray theories, if they actually happened in the film,
they'd have the dramatic weight of a feather.
They're not good.
Everyone.
He read them all there.
All of the theories are worse than the reality that she's a nobody from nowhere
and her parents are no one and we really have to let you know that.
Look, Ryan Johnson shows the best results.
Like every single possibility, he had the best one.
All I can say is subversive.
I mean, yeah, you guys do come in this way, but that's why you hate it.
Another empty mystery box.
That's the specialty of Jar Jar Abrams.
And he had one left over, I guess.
Ryan Johnson did.
And he gave it to us and it was empty.
Great wonder if JJ always intended that one to be empty
or if if Ryan took the prize out of it, he was like, no, it's empty.
There's only one thing that's there's only two things
ever in a mystery box, empty air or a dried turd.
So you can tell by rattling it what's inside.
I would have taken the dry turd over the nothing.
I really I would have I would have been like, well, that's a that's a dry turd,
but at least that's what we tried to give them.
That's what we tried to give them with our fan theories
that are worse than the empty air.
So fuck you, dude.
Yeah, fuck you in your video.
Dramatic weight of a feather.
They're not good.
If you don't see how this is much more relatable and a better dramatic reveal
than just being somebody famous, his daughter,
then you really do not appreciate a good story.
So why don't you help us out, dude?
Explain why you just keep saying it's good.
It's like, yeah, tell me how I would love to know how.
I'm hoping he's got more than
please don't tell me this is the whole video.
And if you guys were able to come up with said theories,
that's the definition of the word predictable.
You just predicted it.
What? OK, well, OK.
Because I have the ability to have an imagination.
Therefore, they shouldn't be done because it's going to be predicted.
Yeah, because somebody out there on the Internet came up with an idea
and that idea happened to be the idea that they went with.
That means that it's predictable to everybody.
Every single person would be like, oh, that's predictable.
That's like saying the person on the Internet,
red letter media predicted the events of what happens in solo.
Yeah. And I mean,
it doesn't take a genius to figure that out.
What's what they're going to do with solo.
But because we predicted that or because they predicted that.
Therefore, so low is a bad movie.
I'm just like, what if one of Ray's parents turned out to be
Oompa Gluto from from some planet?
And then they're like, nobody thought that right.
There's some guy on Twitter who was like, I thought it was going to be
Oompa Gluto and they're like, shit, predictable.
Like, we're going to try something better.
Basically foiling expectation.
Yeah, basically foiling expectations means that
Ryan Johnson couldn't come up with anything that the fans hadn't already
guessed. So he says, it's nobody done.
He's like, nobody said that, right?
It's like what guy was like, I said that shit.
Him. Oh, man.
Now it's a shitty idea.
Somebody come up with something else.
Well, this assumes that if someone came up with the idea,
it couldn't have been a good one. Hmm.
Like the only good idea that could have been was one that's so fucking retarded
that nobody ever assumed that he just said it was great.
And if you don't understand it, you don't understand storytelling regs.
So who am I going to believe you?
And if you guys were able to come up with said theories,
that's the definition of the word predictable.
You just predicted it.
And that twist would have been exactly like Empire, only not good at all.
Instead. Oh, it would have been exactly like Empire, but not good.
OK. OK. All righty.
The logic here, but very good. I'll take it.
This guy's amazing.
You just you see what this is, right?
Like, I'm not saying it's the whole video because I'm going through it.
Yeah. But the amount of people who would come to this just to be told,
you were right.
The movie is good because it's not bad.
And they're like, oh, yes, he's right.
He was right. Of course.
I knew it all along.
Anyway, I wasn't crazy.
That's what this is going to be for the next 40 minutes.
We like Empire, only not good at all.
Instead, we get this whole new theme that yes, she's a noble.
It's a feeling. Anybody can have that.
That would be what?
Oh, God, is he going to be the stereotype for my video?
I'm just like, they just say the themes.
I guess she's a theme.
Oh, yes.
I mean, failure is the greatest teacher.
People always reference is like, yeah, it was a really not really applicable
to the movie because it just failed and nobody learned any things like oh, well.
It's the grim realities of life.
This is realism, people force now.
Luke says it himself to say that if the Jedi die, the light dies.
Can you feel that?
And to say that Ryan trashed what JJ set up is so not true.
Go back and watch The Force Awakens and they could very well be setting up.
They could.
Wait, wait, did you just say?
Let's let's hear that one more time.
Because that was dumb.
Go back and watch The Force Awakens and they could very well be setting up
that she's a nobody.
The film is plenty of that theme in it as well.
That's not the that's the straw man.
They're saying that they've ruined the set up by making her have nobody.
And he said, yes, but it's possible.
Wait, wait a second.
If explain it, if this guy could be doing it,
if this guy says that they were setting up that she's a nobody,
then that makes it predictable that she's a nobody, which means, yeah, nice catch.
Not only that, though, just just the idea that he's just that's not what people
saying. Nobody said they hated it because it didn't follow The Force Awakens.
They could be setting it up.
It's like, what do you mean they could be?
Either they are or they aren't.
The movie is done. Did you watch the movie?
What happened in the movie?
Did the movie say she feels like she's by herself and she has no family?
Well, no, they didn't do that.
They clearly set up that something's going on.
She's on that planet for a reason.
She's waiting for her parents.
Yeah, like if you ask me who raised parents based on the information from TFA,
I'd be like literally could be anybody on the planet.
They could it could be BBA.
I don't know if there's really any information about what they could be.
They could be aliens.
Like, what what is this guy trying to say?
This is insane.
Oh, that would be funny of that theme in it as well.
One thing J.J.
definitely did was leave a lot of stuff open ended, but maybe too open ended
because it led to way too much speculation.
Now, there is only one person that I have from from the.
Wait a second. Why don't wisdom?
That is polygon.
I don't understand how that even supports or takes away from any point he's making.
J.J. left it to open.
Did he just say previously that predictions are bad?
And then if they're too predictable, it's it's going to be like the empire only worse.
But now he's saying, oh, now it should be.
It was too open, too unpredictable.
It's like, what's this?
Let's say that did was leave a lot of stuff open ended, but maybe too open ended
because it led to way too much speculation.
Now, how could you speculate if it's predictable?
Like, like you wouldn't be able to.
How could you speculate to an open level if it's too predictable?
And didn't he just speculate that it could very well be set up this way?
Yeah, this is.
He speculated that it very well could be the thing that he said was not predictable.
Like he is talking on both sides of his mouth.
I can't believe how nonsensical this is.
I'm not following this at all, but I'm just hoping for a point.
And he doesn't have any gaps in there that you can think between.
That's this basically is salesman.
He's like he's like movie Bob, which is on the blink.
Other people just keep talking. Don't stop.
Keep talking. Go, go, go.
That's why our format rips these things apart as we listen to everything they say.
We're like, hmm.
Now, there is only one person that I know of whose prediction about Ray actually came true.
Call me crazy, but wouldn't it be cooler if she.
Oh, good lord. Oh, no.
I'm so great.
So it's predictable and it's bad.
You fucking idiot.
No, it's not.
If he predicted this because it's great writing because he's a great writing person, I guess.
But if someone else predicts it, it's predictable and it's shit.
That's embarrassing.
All right. All right.
Let me just one guy.
Yeah, one guy predicted it.
And that if that's because it was so bad.
I think that's yeah, I find that amazing that he actually threw this in.
He's like, just just let you guys know the only guy that really did it was me.
OK, good for you, man.
Proud of you actually came true.
Call me crazy.
But wouldn't it be crazy if she wasn't related to anyone?
I think the idea that Ray is a nobody and that anyone can learn the force is a great concept.
Nobody has a problem with anyone learning the force.
She doesn't learn anything.
It's not the point.
We want an explanation for where power came from.
And the only thing they got left because of the way they did it was saying, oh, yeah,
she's like Palpatine's daughter, I guess.
You're like, oh, well, at least Palpatine was powerful.
We have an entire body of knowledge of the Lord saying you cannot just learn the force.
There are entire schools where Jedi go and find children who are sensitive.
And then they develop their skills.
It's not just I'm born that defeats the thing.
Sorry. Yeah, go ahead.
Well, if that's the thing they're going for, then like, why can't she just be born of somebody
who hasn't been known to be great with the force and she learns it anyway?
It's like, why why can't they go that route and still, you know, stick with that theme
if they really wanted to, you know?
Well, this is a main part of her character, her finding her parents.
And she really wanted to wait on Jakut for her parents to come find her.
And then she realizes it's not going to happen.
And then what do you do with that?
Nothing. You just you just throw it out the door.
You're jacked here for just a second.
Yeah. Would that be OK?
This is everywhere. And it always has been.
It always will be there for anyone.
But the thing that made the Jedi great and this terrible
was that it took training to access, I mean, training along with aptitude,
being attuned to the force.
And what this guy is effectively celebrating with such monotonous
Ilan is the utter democratization of mediocrity.
So it's no wonder he loves the last Jedi.
It's a very veritable fucking celebration of ordinariness.
You know, he's excited because now everyone and anyone can use the force.
Oh, goody. That's wonderful.
Because in a world where everyone is special, no one is fucking special.
And that's the thing.
If she actually went to the dark side as a result of tapping into it
like without any control or understanding, at least we could be like, OK, OK.
But no, she's like one of the greatest characters
in the series in terms of altruism.
She's like the nicest person special.
She is the most special.
There is no one greater than her.
Like Darth Vader can't even touch her in terms of his skill or her skill.
He needs to understand that there's a difference between everybody
can use the force and everybody just can use it
to this aptitude through no hard work to say that anybody,
if they work hard enough and they focus hard enough
and they train hard enough, can become great, is different than saying,
oh, yeah, anyone can do it.
And I don't think that's the case, or I don't think that's the case
because all we do is we see Ray just being amazing.
No one else in the story can just do that.
It's just that's what I'm saying.
What he's saying is that it's great that we know that everyone can use the force.
But that's a far cry from Ray is God.
Yeah, I want to see what would happen if she had bumped into Vader in Cloud City.
I wonder if you just just slash the shit out of him and throw him
off to the fucking place with the force.
Yeah. And I guess this guy would have liked an original trilogy
where Luke was just another force user, only now he'd be a force loser
because any one of 10,000 force users located closer to the fucking Death Star
could have taken care of that teensy problem that and Luke would be using the force
to, I don't know, fucking clear sand out of the moisture evaporators
or carry the grocery bags from the Mos Eisley Wal-Mart for Aunt Baruch.
Oh, wait, never mind.
Baruch can use the force to carry her own fucking bags.
Thank you very much.
Judge her by her age, do you?
Dude, when the when the stormtroopers teamed up to bid the uncle or not
in their place, they both just pulled out lightsabers, used the force
and just batted off the entire empire because everybody can everybody can.
That's the good thing about Ray is the good thing.
And they can be excellent at it.
The best ever for old people is a nobody
and that anyone can learn the force is a great concept.
And man, does it feel good to be right now?
You've been nothing but wrong for two minutes and you're
giving H.
Palma guy a run for his money on the smug levels here.
Like, this is this is beautiful.
Oof, bad, bad moment.
A lot of people think that Kylo is lying to her about her parents being junk
traders, but then why does it come out of her mouth?
They were nobody.
Yeah, how would she know?
Wait, wait, wait.
So if if I walk into a room and Rags is standing over a murdered corpse
and I go, you killed him and Rags didn't and then Rags goes, yes.
Then that's me saying it and Rags confirming it.
Rags lied. You understand how that works?
Like, that's what Kylo did.
Yeah, if she doesn't know, if Ray doesn't know, then she doesn't know.
He just said that if it was Kylo's lie, then why did she say it?
Is it? I don't know.
It's like the writings.
It's almost like the writing in his films.
Fucking awful or something.
No.
Did he did she download like the 23 and me for Jakku
with her four Skype call from Kylo Ren?
He's downloaded stalls.exe.
It's just everything.
Yeah, when she downloaded the force from him, she also downloaded his memories
and all of his knowledge and continued to lie up to that point.
It doesn't come out of her mouth.
There were nobody writing.
Just let it go, guys.
What, are you going to say she's lying to him now?
Watch, I'll be people and we've already counted that.
I don't even know what the fuck is this point.
That camp by tomorrow.
People very sadly did not comprehend how perfect Luke Skywalker's ending was.
Well, what is this?
Perfect.
Dude, I love this style of argumentation.
Someone says like this thing is bad.
You go, it's good.
Then they go, OK, but you see this mechanical piece by here.
It doesn't fit quite right.
Or there's something rusted.
You go, it's good.
You go, oh, well, OK.
But I'm literally telling you that this car has no wheels.
You go, it's good.
OK.
I get how people like this video if they're in favor of the Last Jedi.
This is literally just a confirmation bias.
Yeah, there's no arguments being made here.
Perfect.
Especially the fact that it was very much like Obi-Wan sacrifice to save him
in a new home, 10 times more awesome.
It happened in the other film in this different context.
Therefore, it's good.
Only it's 10 times more.
It's better. It's better.
It's more perfect.
Yeah, we can't even respond to that because there's no argument.
It's literally Ben died that way, you know.
So, you know, it's like it's a declaration more than, you know, an argument.
I think that Kylo killed Luke three times better because he had three blades.
And if you look at the facial hair on Luke compared to Obi-Wan Kenobi,
I think Luke's is darker.
Therefore better.
Yeah. And he also wasn't there.
So therefore he killed him in an idea only.
And then he died literally after the fact.
And it was made in twenty eighteen or seventeen.
Sorry. In twenty seventeen, it's just better than seventy seven.
Can we be honest? It's a better year.
Do you all agree?
They're vintage skywalkers.
Ending was especially the fact that it was very much like Obi-Wan
sacrifice to save him and a new hope only ten times more awesome
because of this insane Jedi mind trick reveal.
This right here is a reveal doesn't change anything.
If he was there, he would have died.
Turns out he wasn't there, but he also died.
OK, I'm like, he he wasn't there.
So we died. Did he just choose to die?
I don't even know why Luke's dead.
Just to clarify, in case anyone here in chat didn't know,
the only reason they did this was to have this shot.
Ryan Johnson wanted him to be of the dual sons when he died.
And he's like, how do I make it so that you can die here
but also die over there?
Fucking force projection. I don't know.
That's it. There's nothing else to it mechanically.
It's just like, I don't know, he can do that.
It takes a lot. It killed him.
And moving on, we got we got our shot, which, by the way, I like the shot.
I do. I think he wanted to do it so bad.
Couldn't he just change the time of day on Salt Planet?
I mean, it's a bit difficult because you have like
Kylo's just going to stand there awkwardly while Luke has his moment.
He's like, I think Mark Hamill made a comment on Twitter about a week ago
about how Luke died because he's like a drug addict.
And he because he was in withdrawal for so long.
Yeah. And that he and he used it at the like this a lot all at once.
It was too much for a system.
And everyone's like, what the hell are you talking about?
Where are you getting this?
Could have been bad manatee milk for all we fucking know.
He was trying to impress Ray.
He was like, yeah, I just do this.
Then like a couple of days later, he's like,
shit, I should drink that.
She's like, are you OK?
Yeah, I have a big fan.
We want sacrifice to save him and a new hope only 10 times more awesome
because of this insane Jedi mind trick reveal.
This right here is about as Luke Skywalker as it can possibly get.
And if you really hate Luke.
So we're the ones that don't understand.
And he's the one who's like, this is a bottle of Luke Skywalker's.
It's like any arguments with that?
You just know teleportation across distances.
Yeah, this is clearly what Luke Skywalker is all about.
Fucking fucking Luke Skywalker.
Let me tell you something.
The heart.
This is the worst betrayal of Luke Skywalker, this scene,
that there was in the entire film.
And I made a video about this because look, he's there.
OK, I mean, he's projected himself there.
He touches Leah's hand.
He hands her the fake dice.
He is fucking there.
He's blocking light.
He's casting shadows, et cetera, and so on.
So he can kind of phase in and phase out depending on his will.
And that means he's invulnerable.
So what he could have done is he could have killed Kylo Ren,
taken his fucking lightsaber and destroyed every fucking one of those goddamn
vehicles and he chose not to.
The only reason that he didn't is because he chose not to.
He's fucks around with Leah instead of actually helping these people
to give Ray the chance to lift the boulders later.
It's a complete and total betrayal of Luke Skywalker, the worst yet.
That's my feeling.
Well, this guy said it was perfect, though.
Sorry. So you're completely invalidated.
All of your arguments don't make any sense now because he said I better start
hitting the blues.
Oh, I'm I'm I was there this film.
Blame it on this guy, not this guy.
What? Oh, I blame it on both of them.
There there was nothing that Ryan could have done differently.
There was literally nothing different that could have be done.
No, this is even though it's completely unpredictable.
This is the only thing you could do.
Yeah. And you don't blame Ryan.
You blame the guy before him.
That's that's how this works.
You didn't make it, but.
Well, I hated the Force Awakens, so I do blame Jar Jar Abrams.
But Ryan definitely made the last Jedi.
So he did. Yeah.
We can confirm that the idea that it's like.
Yeah, it's only that you hate it. You can't hate him.
No, Ryan didn't. You see, you just don't understand filmmaking.
It's all J.J.
Fault that Ryan became a director, you see.
Right. And if you really hate Luke Skywalker's storyline in this film,
blame it on this guy, not this guy.
So you just said it was perfect.
Why would you care if people hated it at that point?
It's brilliant. Yeah, Jar Jar should have the credit.
Yeah, according to him, it has nothing to do with Ryan at that point, right?
Now, this film was clearly aware of the divisiveness that it would cause.
That's why you see a lot of split or schism related imagery in it.
But the entire I think we call that reaching.
But wow, that's like because there's lots of depth,
there's going to be lots of division between everyone else who doesn't like death.
No, the lightsaber got split that represents arguments online.
So yeah, well, I saw death and I saw death and schism split on Rotten Tomatoes.
Oh, yes, all that the radio section ends of the divisiveness that it would cause.
That's why you see a lot of split or schism related imagery in it.
But the entire film is riddled with that same message.
But the past, but but the lightsaber, what's the point?
If the lightsaber is completely functional and I don't even know.
Whatever, fuck it. How could we not?
In order for this series to have some impact in 2018,
there needs to be something brand new going on within it.
And this is not brand new.
Everyone says that the the biggest defense of last year is like, it's new.
It's like, what do you what do you mean?
It's got all the characters we know.
It's got the same forced war between rebels and empire,
which shouldn't even be happening, considering the world building.
It's just a focal point usage in the movie, and therefore it shows that this movie
is unfocused and that's brilliant.
I mean, it's new in that it has a pointless B plot.
Does any any Star Wars film have a pointless B plot other than this one?
Like one that just doesn't amount to anything.
That's not the first movie.
Sucks. I mean, that's that's new.
Hmm. I just like we needed to do something new.
It's like, yeah, I mean, sure, I don't really call this film that.
But, you know, go for it.
Some impact in 2018.
There needs to be something brand new going on within it.
And the way that this film introduced the idea of a better, newer rebel alliance
was subtle and really well thought out.
Yeah, you can't just keep going out wiped out.
He keeps just saying it's it's it's the it's X.
He doesn't have any arguments like argue for this shit.
There's they're so good that they know everybody by name.
It's just it's good.
I'm not going to know.
I'm going to talk about a different aspect because it's just good.
And also this aspect is perfect in this aspect.
It's great. You're just like, hello, hello.
The resistance is like 20 people on a ship was like, they're kind of they fucked up.
They're doing awful.
I think he meant better as in like, I don't know, more moral or something.
There's no way he can move this strong.
There's no way he can be this stronger.
They're literally 20 people on a Millennium Falcon.
That's like the weakest we've ever seen.
They're ready.
He says that that's that means it's a fail.
They have. Oh, yes.
They're down to 20 people on a ship and their membership is less than the local PTA
at your neighborhood grade school.
Yeah, I think they're done.
I'm I'm blown away.
It's like, I wonder if you'll qualify on within it.
And the way that this film introduced the idea of a better, newer rebel alliance
was subtle and really well thought out.
It's not with a bunch of soldiers because clearly that didn't do enough.
But maybe it's what.
Well, there's didn't.
What do you what do you think?
What soldiers did a good job?
So the girl, the girl who blew up the dreadnought and holdo blowing up
the entire fleet and the supremacy stupid ship, were they not soldiers fighting
at a war? Do they not?
Do we not count those things?
I mean, I can't believe I'm defending the last jet.
I hear from the guy who's saying it's amazing.
But what were they supposed to be like not like diplomats?
Like what do they want?
Like, what does he want?
If you read the grimoire cards, you see Rose's sister is a plumber.
Supposed to fight with love, dammit.
She has like a gun that shoots hearts and bubbles.
And a cupid idea that 30 years ago, we thought only one guy was powerful
with the force. We thought there was one Jedi left.
Now we're learning that everything we were taught about the force
wasn't all that there is to know.
And in reality, anyone who's saying that, who's who said that we know
everything about the force?
Especially because we know that Leia has some connection to the force, too.
So what he's saying is wrong.
Like he what he's saying, he's just flat out wrong.
I just who says, man, I hate this film because we knew literally
everything about the force and now they're telling us new things about it.
I don't remember that argument. No idea.
Wasn't all that there is to know.
And in reality, anyone can tap into it.
Now you already knew that.
Who's against that idea? Yeah.
This is weird. Stop easy.
The straw manning or not making arguments at all.
Do something just Luke.
Now we're awakening that same force and average no name nobodies.
Oh, you mean like Luke?
I mean, I guess because he was he wasn't a no name once you get to episode five.
But what I'm saying is like it literally go to the prequels.
It's just a bunch of kids.
Like, no, they're not all the kids of Palpatine, Obi-Wan and fucking Skywalker's.
They're all just kids.
This isn't new.
Sorry to burst your bubble.
Rose freed the animals and left the orphans enslaved.
Who are they?
They didn't deserve it, apparently.
Maybe those animals will go out to be Jedi.
Yeah, maybe.
Their force, it makes sense that if you're a Jedi and you could use the force,
your your trusty steed better be able to use the force, too.
That's right.
Average no name no match themselves or something.
That is what it's going to take this time around.
If we're getting the sequel trilogy for it to have a real reason to exist,
it needs to be about something bigger.
And that is precisely.
No, no, this is horrible.
That is so fucking wrong.
It needs to be about something bigger.
We have to make it bigger.
More ships, more explosions.
More good or more, more, more, more, more, more boring characters.
Rose Tico was what he showed as he spoke about that.
And that's like, oh, my God.
Yeah, she's she I'm telling you, he loves mediocrity.
He made a fat joke.
Well, hey, he said newer, bigger, better, everything.
It's good that the climax wasn't based entirely on drama
between the skywalkers and the solos.
You know, it wasn't that it was something completely different and newer and better.
Contradictive doesn't even begin to describe this video.
We're only four minutes in like how did you do this?
Episode nine should and probably will be about a bunch of previously non-Jedi people
awakening the force in themselves.
Or it might just end with that.
I want to see Finn and other characters start to exhibit force like powers.
I don't think why why that would be really forced of them.
Finn's clearly not the force character.
Neither is Poe.
Those two are clearly archetypes that are based on Star Wars.
The guy with the gun, who's a hot shot pilot.
You know, like they're not going to be force you.
If they are, then fine, I'm wrong.
But I seriously doubt they're going to do that.
Let's just make everyone ordinary.
You're like, why the fuck would it would it be fun to have everybody be a force user
in the main cast?
It'd be boring.
Everyone's a wizard.
Don't you love the idea of like a just just, you know, a Han Solo versus
like a Sith or something in some scenarios?
Like, that's way more interesting because of the fact that they're not the exact same.
Like just to make everybody a force user is like.
But yeah, no, fine.
Let's have that movie.
He wants it that badly, I guess.
Force is universal now.
That doesn't render Luke obsolete at all.
Who said that?
It's not universal.
Where is he getting this?
Who said that?
We just wanted to.
Everyone, everyone could potentially have the force.
Doesn't mean that everybody is going to exhibit force usage.
That's like this is what I mean.
Keeps defending the argument that it's like, hey, everyone can use the force.
And it's just like nobody's saying stop.
Just stop it.
He still has the biggest heart in the whole galaxy.
Always will. No, he doesn't.
No, he doesn't.
He literally abandoned his family.
He watched the movie.
I don't care if he doesn't at the end.
At the beginning, he's like, go away.
I want to die.
I want to die. And I don't care if everyone else dies either.
Oh, it's bizarre.
And you know, his reasoning being that the Jedi are just as bad as the Sith.
You really think about it and it's like, yeah, OK.
No, yeah, no, I understand.
I get it. But the Sith are in power right now.
And they're threatening to murder everybody, including your family.
I don't know if you care.
Like, I don't know.
Yeah, like if the Jedi kill half of everyone in the Sith, kill everyone,
then it's like your moral obligation to help the Jedi.
I love the idea that he argues that like they know better than each other.
Just like, yeah, that's great.
But we all know Jedi are better than Sith for the world.
Yes, we all know that.
Sure. Whatever.
Help us, because that's fucking awful wrong.
You want to philosophize. That's great.
But we know that the Jedi don't actively just murder people regularly.
Like, can we just agree on that?
But the Jedi aren't perfect.
So they're just as bad as the worst thing in the universe.
Yep. That works.
It's all the same.
They're going to kill people. What are you going to do?
Yeah, I'm going to kill the kid.
What do you got?
He's still got the biggest hock guys.
They're all tainted by sin.
The biggest hock.
By some self to save others.
And he was the one to pass on the baton to teach Ray and the audit.
He didn't teach you anything.
Literally, Mark Hamels pointed that out.
Is an interview where someone says, like, he's so hard.
Oh, my God.
Someone says something like, what did you teach Ray?
And his response is like, what if maybe I didn't even teach her anything?
It's before the film came out and he doesn't want to confirm anything.
But it's just funny, because it's like, yeah,
maybe that's not a good question because he can't even answer what he taught
to teach his shit.
You guys become a Jedi.
And what if he ever wants us to?
Oh, geez.
It's to awaken the force within ourselves.
That is what Luke would be known for in this new trilogy.
Just totally reinventing the force and for the better.
The film for the better.
So you haven't explained to us what you even mean by reinventing it.
And then you move on to say it's just better than what we had before,
which we don't even know by comparison, what we're dealing with here.
It's it's broom boys.
The only thing I could think of broom boys better.
There's we had broom boy already in the prequels, like potentially.
But they all died.
They all died.
Broom boys died.
They should have broomed harder.
They just went brumin, man.
Now we're now we're going to get forcehorse.
It's going to be great.
So it's better than broom boy.
Broom boy grows up to be Star Wars kid.
So give him some respect.
They tell stories of the mightiest janitor in all the galaxy.
It's a false horse into the side.
A false horse into the capital of the night.
Palpatine was once a neutral, innocent child,
but then he picked up a broom and everything changed like shit.
He could have a strong influence on a clogged toilet force.
And for the better, the film provides us with solid between old characters,
people being faced with personality defining to see.
Do you just you just have to say it?
If you say it, it is just true.
Oh, it's tough, like top shelf is and they don't want you to see it
or be able to reach it.
No, it's not shelf.
All right, because he's really reaching this.
This was the point back in April when I stopped because that's the five minute
mark and I just left my comment.
I could not take anymore.
It was this bad.
I love so easy to review films this way, or at least write video essays this way.
We just go, this is just good.
This is good. Characters are good.
Stories good. The lore is great.
The thing is this.
The thing is this.
And you're just like, you're not saying anything.
You're just making us laugh at this point.
Finding decisions supported by top shelf acting.
It had real sets, a disgusting amount of practical effects,
actual visual imagination.
I'm sorry, actual visual imagination as opposed to fake sets.
Some of the most dynamic designs I've ever seen in the entire trilogy.
It's like actual visual imagination.
If you've seen this, the sets, I think the most the most expensive
and the most real was Kanto Bight, and it was ridiculously expensive.
And half the rest of the sets I saw in the post production stuff
were half green screens.
Yeah. And the irony is that most people felt the Kanto Bight felt green screen
like the whole thing felt fake.
Yeah, I don't recall there being a lot of, you know,
boasting of practical sets in this one, but I just figured I'd missed it.
So it looked expensive as shit like it gave prequel vibes.
And that's the thing, you know, like it turns out it's not just about money.
It's also about how you use it.
But he just said visual, actual visual imagination.
So he's saying this is actually good.
OK, you guys probably don't know what actual good is.
No, clearly not.
We need educational.
I heard of it once on on the train, but
taking up three new detailed worlds, all with their own three new detailed worlds.
I mean, not Hoth.
So what do you mean by detailed?
We have not Tatooine, not Hoth and
because it's a casino planet and capitalism, bad planet, orange man, bad planet.
What does detailed mean?
I'll just let him continue taking us to three new detailed worlds,
all with their own new creatures and subplots.
So subtle.
The way the way that they crash through that, you know,
with their stampede of force horses is very subtle.
So fucking subtle.
You just said that alien screaming for their lives.
Also new creatures, by the way, just like what they showed
a CGI wolf crystal thing.
And that's just you're done at that point.
You're like, this is great.
Horgues.
Yeah, Jesus.
The subtle plot point of if and then with dozens and dozens of if to get from
what is it, Finn is now doesn't want to escape.
And then he gets picked up by Rose and then they start going, if oh,
but then we need this and then we need to get this and then you have to do that.
That's how they get the canto bite.
This is giant if clause.
If all these things happen just to get on board.
That's not subtle.
That's not we did that's ridiculous.
For how beautiful Star Wars was.
I mean, what an incredible universe George Lucas created.
When I first saw Star Wars, I marveled at how packed with amazing sites.
Every fucking frame of it was.
I mean, robots that would have been the featured stars of any movie
previous to Star Wars were literally the background.
I mean, hardly worth a glance.
Such was the the bounty of imagination that we were we were given.
And look what we got in The Force Awakens.
I mean, a bunch of recycled garbage we'd seen before, done better decades before.
And there wasn't one original design, one creature, one robot,
one ship that could compare to McCrory's brilliant and iconic designs.
And the last Jedi is fucking worse.
And you want to know where Porgs came from?
Brian Johnson is long shots of whatever planet Luke was on.
There were there were too many birds in the shot
and he didn't want to get rid of those in post.
So he's OK that they weren't allowed to.
They couldn't like because of the island.
You weren't allowed to bother the wildlife.
Oh, well, yeah, but they could brush them out, too, right? Yeah.
And instead of doing that, they just made their own and they said, OK,
we'll just have some close up scenes and shots of that.
Yeah, which is bullshit.
They could have just a brush them instead.
He decided, yeah, we need these.
It's like, OK.
Well, they made one step on a lightsaber.
Did they like do that?
No, they took they took real ones.
And they they added great deal to these amazing worlds.
You know, you know, not Hoth.
It's like a flat of white with red underneath it and then a cave.
That's amazing. OK, yeah, but it's it's salt.
Also, also fox boys that are crystally.
That's the best thing ever.
And if you say anything else, you're wrong.
You don't understand the story telling.
Another artist came up with that.
I mean, that that is literally someone else's work that they just lifted.
I mean, if you've seen that, have you seen that sculpture?
What is it like on Deviant Art or something?
Well, it is. No, no, no.
I'm telling you that some artist had sculpted a crystal fox
that looked exactly like that ahead of the movie.
Oh, I see what you mean.
Yeah, yeah, actually, I feel like I heard that somewhere.
Mm hmm. And it's a controversial visual imagination.
Well, there's also the people have said that Ryan stole it
from a fan fiction like the premise for this film.
I don't know how much credence there is for that.
It was Polish artist.
Let me see.
Yeah, apparently.
Yeah, I just Google it real quick and I saw some
I've seen some. Yeah, there's some stuff on it.
There's some stuff on it. Yeah.
Yeah, I didn't know that.
And I doubt Ryan Johnson stole anything from fanfic
because what fan would have written this shit?
Yeah, creature subplot.
A fan did write the background story for face for raised parents.
There was a there was an article in that.
Well, no background.
They wrote. It was a blank page.
Apparently, I don't know.
But that was that was the one thing I consider my expectations diverted.
Ryan said, brilliant.
I love the unbroken whiteness.
I think I'm going to steal that for the finale.
Well, so many people cite just the fact that it goes white
on red for not half is is why that planet's amazing and detailed.
I'm just like you realize that's just two colors, right?
I'm not I'm not trying to say anything, but like, you know,
Coruscant being the planet city.
It's like how cool that is.
Yeah, what's up with those stupid?
I mean, why do they trail in the fucking salt?
I mean, is that what makes them go?
Are they like reverse bumper cars or some just what?
But what was the plan with that?
Because were they effective?
Were any of their guns working?
I didn't I don't remember seeing them shoot anything down
and they just get melted by that laser beam, or at least fins does.
Dude, so what was the point of attacking?
I still remember I had everything saying that crate was amazing,
like everything about it.
And when I came to talking about crate in part three, I was like,
there's nothing right with crate.
None of it makes any sense at all.
It's all horrible.
If you try to think about how anything works in the entire scene,
especially Finn's character changing choice, which my goodness,
I'll just let's just let's just keep going.
We'll be here literally until we're all dead.
Tailed worlds, all with their own new creatures and subplots going on,
which were all subtly weaved into the main story.
Even the wildlife in this movie had dramatic purpose.
The film act dramatic.
Oh, that's not how drama works.
Tell me what the dramatic purpose of the porgs was.
I am dying to know.
No, no, that one doesn't count.
You should have.
He meant the the crystal things.
OK, that's what he means.
All right.
To tell me.
They they went through a little hole and then Poe was like,
oh, they went through the hole.
We can go through there.
Dramatic.
That's a genius idea.
I'm going to go with the whole of that laser now.
Thanks, Fox, boy.
Who fucks everything?
Doth vrooboy.
Crystal Fox is like fucking lassie, like saying, hey,
Timmy's down the well this way.
I mean, it actually like it looks like it's looking back saying, hey, guys,
follow me. It's ridiculous.
Why? And like he's going to die on literally every hill for this film.
But like he must have been like, oh, man.
Yes, the the creatures were perfect.
I'm going to say it.
Yeah, but he said dramatic.
He didn't say plot resolution.
He didn't say that they resolved the problem.
They were all right, dramatic.
Right. I don't think he knew what that meant.
I think he was just like, I don't know where to pick out random literary term.
Use it and actually took risks.
So I hate the fuck the film took risks.
But if if I poop off of a cliff,
let's get there.
Someone down at the bottom or not.
So bold. So new.
It's like broke new ground.
I think I said this before to today, but it's just like there's a film called
you know, Star Wars Episode Nine, Luke does his taxes and it's just in a room
and he's just doing his taxes like the film was risky.
That was pretty risky. I have to admit.
Yeah, that was risky. I agree.
We've never seen the sight of Luke before.
Yeah, it's risky peeing into the wind because the wind might shift.
It's true. It's true.
Like Luke takes a break from taxes to eat like a bag of potato chips.
He's just like, you know, oh, I didn't like that one.
You see, there's lots of imagery in where he's writing on paper
because they think people will write this one off. It's brilliant.
Oh, man, imagine being this far gone.
We are just like every single tiny detail is just the best thing ever.
Everything's perfect.
Must defend film must defend film creatures.
All insane going on, which were all subtly weaved into the main story.
Even the wildlife in this movie had dramatic purpose.
The film actually took risks, something that we begged Ryan Johnson to do.
We saw good guys fighting each other for a change.
Yeah, OK. When if it's my birthday and someone asks, hey, Rags,
what do you want for your birthday? And I say, surprise me.
Like, I don't want like to open up a present and they're like slugs.
Well, they literally just punch you in the face and like, yeah,
you didn't see that coming.
Yeah, there's just like a fist inside that springs up and hits me in the face.
And now you'll remember it forever.
Yeah, I wasn't that punch in the face.
You have to admit, like everyone's standing around to go.
And that was a risky gift. I hope you have to appreciate that.
And everyone clapped.
But I like that he cited good guys fighting each other.
This is a thing to celebrate.
It doesn't matter what the context is.
Just good guys fighting each other. That's that's great.
Johnson to do.
We saw good guys fighting each other for a change.
We even saw good guys fighting alongside bad guys.
And although the film, yeah, again, context.
If we could only have the way the way that this happened was.
Oh, man.
Like this argument is no different than me saying it is a Star Wars film.
It has lightsabers. It has Jedi.
Like, yes.
We get more specific, please.
Fighting each other for a change.
We even saw good guys fighting alongside bad guys.
And although the film managed to pack an insane amount of crowd pleasing Star Wars.
The BBA bit just didn't say didn't say all these things about expectations not being met.
So what expectations do you have about the Star Wars genre or instance of Star Wars movies?
And how is that not any different than people's expectations that they wanted from the Star Wars?
How do you be crowd pleasing while simultaneously being unpredictable and risky?
Very confusing here.
So it looks like this is just everything that's good is in this film.
Even if they contradict each other is like that's just it has it all.
Sacrifice. It's deep subtext about failure and survival along with some text.
Not subtext.
It's a failure.
Failure is not about survival.
They got fucked up.
It's not it.
It's there.
They're on the run because they're getting they got pummeled because of their incompetence.
That's just your opinion, man.
I think that everybody succeeded in this film.
Even the people who died, they, you know,
they just succeeded differently to what you consider to be the standards for succeeding.
That's all this is.
Yeah.
People who died just being some kind of some kind of ist.
You've been an ist.
Surprisingly dark and complex character arcs that went right over people's heads.
Just like the rebel blockade.
Oh, why don't you just explain them to us?
Then a wise master.
What's the rebel blockade?
Oh, wait.
Did he say?
Hang on.
Let's just play it again.
Dark and complex character arcs that went right over people's heads.
Just like the rebel blockade.
Luke and.
Yeah.
What is he talking about?
What rebel block?
What did he know?
Blockade.
Pretty sure the cyber.
It has to be like just a quick little joke.
Problem is he talks the same.
So it's kind of hard to tell the rebel blockade.
I don't recall that.
Well, it's almost an oxymoron because how would they have a blockade?
Considering they're the rebels.
You know what I mean?
It's like he's the idiot.
He means that he means the rebel blockade runner flying over our heads in the original.
No, no, no.
What what he means is that there is no rebel blockade.
So everything that didn't really exist.
His joke is deeper than the last year.
That did not sacrifice its deep subtext about failure and survival along with some surprisingly
dark and complex character arcs that went right over people's heads.
Just like the rebel blockade.
Luke and Kylo had no relationship in the last film.
It was all just exposition.
We didn't see their dynamic.
I agree.
And we barely saw it here.
We just see them shouting at each other.
Do you love the bit where he's like.
He like makes fun of him at one point.
Like he's playing with Kylo like the dialogue isn't.
It's not really anything.
We can't really work with it.
It's just like, oh, I hate you.
Well, I failed you.
Well, you're going to die.
This is a Jedi.
I'll be fine.
It's like, okay.
Look, this is the result of their dynamic.
We don't get to see their dynamic.
Bullshit.
Many people wondered how the hell somebody could turn bad under the supervision of Luke.
Well, the last Jedi answer.
We don't get to know.
We don't know.
There's no answer for that.
We see Luke attack a guy when he's sleeping.
Come up with one.
And he just slaughters all of his students for whatever reason.
Yeah, because Kylo was clearly the victim in that scenario.
And so he decided I'm going to kill everyone.
That's another thing that was never sat right with me.
It's like, you'd think he'd run away because he's confused at his master trying to murder him.
But he's like, no, I'm going to kill all the other students.
And you're like, oh, all right.
Makes enough sense.
A question and reveals that Luke is actually much more responsible for Ben Solo's turn to
Kylo Ren than we thought and all because he was just trying to prevent it.
Now, whoever thinks Luke wouldn't do this.
This is actually him following his Jedi training by abandoning all attachment.
You want me to kill your family because no attachments.
Yeah.
Because as we know, Luke was always very much interested in following the Jedi training.
That was always his biz.
I never did the Jedi training of don't be too emotionally attached to something.
You know, you know, that scene where he what do you do?
He's something like he had like a dad that he cared about or some shit.
That was because he didn't care about anything anymore.
It was no only logic, no emotional attachments.
Yeah.
You have to go and sneak into your nieces or any other family member sleeping room with a lightsaber
and follow your Jedi training and peer into his mind and have an inkling of the dark side.
And then you outright murder them.
That's pretty much what you do.
Go back to the prequels and Yoda is like, I've sensed another problem with the force,
another Sith who's young.
He's just like, we have to go and murder him in his sleep.
In the basement, you turn up to a family.
They're like, I'm sorry, the right wing death squads.
We're not emotional about this.
It's completely detached, but that will be another Palpatine right there.
Do nothing.
He did murder him.
We must.
Yes.
Jedi Obi-Wan wanted Luke to murder his own father.
I can't kill my own father.
Yeah.
And then he didn't.
What?
Do we?
I don't understand this progression.
What are you talking about?
This argument is very straight.
Jedi really messed up.
I'm going to just pause for a second.
Look, Obi-Wan tells Luke he must kill Darth Vader.
True.
But Darth Vader is a Dark Lord of the Sith,
responsible for murdering countless Jedi masters and plunging the galaxy into darkness.
And Kylo Ren is a student with a big nose whose biggest crime to that point
was screwing Lena Dunham and girls.
Kylo Ren was tempted by the dark side and having doubts and no wonder when he keeps waking up with
this weird stalker dude in his bedroom with dried blue milk in his fucking beard and a
lightsaber in his hand.
It's like a goddamn rainbow of fucked at Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy.
And he's having doubts because he's not drinking the fucking Kool-Aid or the milk
and he's not swallowing what Luke is selling.
That's it.
So there's a big difference between killing Darth Vader and killing Kylo Ren.
And he doesn't even kill Darth Vader.
Did you drink the last of the blue milk, Kylo?
I left it in the fridge and now it's gone.
I mean, he looks into Kylo's future and he sees all the death and stuff.
And then Kylo sees him and he's like, did you see why that happened?
By the way, when you were looking at that, Luke was like, yeah, some weird old guy was
standing over you like with a lightsaber, like about to kill you when you would sleep in it.
And Kylo just like holds up a mirror.
That was me all along.
Well, I'll see you tomorrow at eight o'clock for your lessons.
You're sorry about this, by the way, I just sleepwalk weird.
Or his own father.
I can't kill my own father.
Then the Emperor has already won.
That would have been difficult to explain to Han.
I love that he would have watched this scene and been like, how can I twist this to match the last Jedi?
How much do I have to completely flip this around to make it make sense?
He's like, Ryan, you don't make him a job easy.
Well, good thing he didn't do it.
But this is what the Jedi did when they saw Sith Lord.
They thought that if you don't kill them, you'll join them.
Yeah, they remember in the prequels when they were like, we shouldn't train Anakin
because he's like emotional and stuff.
And then they did anyway.
Just imagine Yoda pulling out a revolver to shooting a little dude in the head.
There we go.
Problem solved.
Makes this mistake right here.
At this point in the story, Kylo is just Ben Solo, Luke's nephew and student.
Ruin Johnson is trying to tell us that Luke, who's so noble, he laid down his life trying to
redeem his father, who's a galactic murderer, utterly lost to the dark side, would kill his
fucking innocent nephew in his sleep for being tempted for having darker inclinations.
What's the connection?
Oh, OK, he's his best friend's son.
OK, OK, he's he's his sister's son.
All right.
He's OK.
He's the bloodlines of the two families put together that he's been forced to look after,
not only in terms of a family, but also trained as a student.
OK, there's a little bit of a connection there, I guess.
It's not quite as strong as a father.
You know, a little bit, a little bit.
And no, no counseling him.
Yeah, they all know each other.
I think they absolutely know each other like you'd know your uncle.
I mean, no, no chats over blue milkshakes about cutting out the negativity.
I mean, no sending him to Bible camp to pray away the nay.
He's just yeah, he decided, you know, fuck it.
He was I actually want to see that now in the film.
Like Luke just woke up and he was bored.
He's looking around.
He started looking at the heads of all his students.
So one of them was just like running around really happy in a field of
posies. He's like, oh, that's nice.
He's like, let's check out Kylo's and it just plays the scene where he kills hard.
He's like, oh, shit, what the fuck? Jesus Christ.
Especially if they're your dad, the fact that Luke chose not to murder his father
was him redefining what it means to be a Jedi.
Whoa. Whoa.
Gonna gonna have to gonna have to say no to that one.
Just give us small disagree.
Just small disagreement.
That he chose not to murder his nephew was him taking the final stand against the Jedi ways.
You know, what's funny, if you like extrapolate what he's saying here, like
to the Jedi, emotionless and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And it's like you could have made a movie out of that.
But this isn't even what this film did.
Luke doesn't mention any of this crap.
He just talks about how the Jedi allowed the Sith to rule.
They allowed Palpatine to exist.
They trained off it.
He doesn't mention, you know, the Jedi suck because they're emotionless
and that they they force that.
I don't think he ever says that.
Well, he lit up his lightsaber because of instinct.
And that's not what the the Jedi teach.
They teach you how to control your feelings and to think things through
and never react emotionally.
So no, he's actually acting properly, not killing him.
That's actually yeah, you're right.
He does.
He even admits in the film that it was a fleeting like emotional moment.
So you don't even not even support in your own theory here, Mr. Lee.
But it was too late.
And when he realized Kylo murdered his students, that was the last straw for him.
But the last straws, we decided to run away and kill him.
So this time you're gone too far.
That's it, Kylo.
I'm going to kill myself now.
It's like, oh, you know how much paperwork it's going to cost me?
All the parents, they came away to Jedi school.
He's like, oh, well, I mean, if you check the clause in the third page of the contract,
it does say that some students do end up killing your kids.
So you did sign it.
Mr. Nice Uncle.
Death by lightsaber is it's you wait when you sign the waiver.
This was an acceptable risk.
Here's your name at the bottom.
You signed for Kylo because he's under 18.
He like got through all of them except one that got like stuck in the mail and he just
got so depressed.
He just went off to a different island to kill himself.
He's like, I can't deal with this shit.
And then there's the day cap.
There's the assumption that some of these guys actually became the Knights of Ren or
whatever the hell that story is supposed to be about.
Well, we haven't had enough time to look into that.
We're busy on Canterbury.
That was the important subplot.
Couldn't couldn't have had Kylo explaining that shit to Ray throughout the film.
That could have actually been a thing.
They could now fuck that Canterbury Canterbury.
I could analyze this scene forever.
It's just so deeply layered.
It's like a 10 second scene is so deeply laid.
Yeah, you're writing for it.
You're inventing all of the things that it means.
Because you've got nothing.
Don't work with anything.
Christ.
I'm sorry for this guy.
I could analyze this scene forever.
It's just so deeply layered.
Was Luke's premonition that Kylo would turn bad the actual future
or was Luke getting a distorted vision from the dark side of the force or from?
Why would that be?
Is that a thing that happened?
This is speculation.
This is from the force.
This is the thing he criticized everyone else for doing.
False visions from space.
He criticized.
He's literally going like, did Snoke send the visions?
Do the visions mean this?
The vision is like, didn't you just say at the beginning
that you hate how people constantly speculated and shit?
Like, what are you doing?
Waiting for episode nine to confirm this shit, maybe?
But then he was going to say, oh, I was the first one who came up with this back in 2018.
It's just going to open with Kylo and Luke, even though Luke's dead now.
He's just going to be sitting at a table and Kyle's like,
okay, so this is what happened.
And they go through all the films and explain all of the things that don't make sense.
And then it ends.
We're like, well, it was risky.
There's an episode nine to have them just sit there and talk about it, you know?
And Kyle was like, yeah, it was actually Snoke that sent the vision.
So I was going to be a good guy until I saw you.
And then I thought, fuck it, I'll be a bad guy.
That's how it makes sense.
That's how it's deeply layered.
Any one of those could be true.
And since we've actually seen Kylo murder Han,
one could argue that turning evil was just his destiny.
And it's not even Luke's fault.
And even though I think Luke may have had a hand in it, right?
Destiny.
Yeah, didn't he just say it was kind of Luke's fault anyway?
So Jesus Christ, what a message.
It was his destiny that he was evil.
Like, oh, okay.
Kylo had no choice.
He is just doomed to the fate that whatever force was, you know, had prescribed for him.
It's not even his fault.
He has no choice in the matter.
He's just going to be evil.
He was probably like just like he was like the nicest guy.
All of a sudden, boom, I'm going to start killing everyone now.
I mean, it's just I mean, there's nothing he could have done.
He's just a robot following his programing.
That's a really great message, by the way, that we don't get to choose anything.
Yeah.
Yeah, fate is a theme here.
It was our fate to have our franchise die with the last Jedi, basically.
I mean, you know, episode nine will be the funeral.
Just it'll be the like the red tape part of it, where we just have to sign some stuff
to make sure that it gets the death it needs.
Turning evil was just his destiny, and it's not even Luke's fault.
And even though Luke was Mr. Perfect and Return of the Jedi.
What?
What?
What?
No.
I don't even know.
We'll just let him go on.
He was still tempted by the dark side and even channeled it to get the upper hand on Vader.
Why does he say that?
Like it supports his fucking points.
It's like the thought.
It's not what you've been saying this whole time.
And by channeling him, he's just wailing away on his lightsaber.
Is that what he meant?
No, that's the dark side.
You could see his channel meter on the lightsaber is going.
This is one of the strongest, darkest, most honest scenes in the entire franchise.
If you say so, he's just stating it, guys.
It's just another moment of him going, this is just this now.
OK, that that was a scene that was played three times.
We didn't know exactly what happened.
That's not the clearest.
Like what?
It's the opposite of what's clear.
We have no idea how the hell it even got to that point.
Like what were they doing before this?
Did Kylo show any kind of, you know, do we do?
What were their relationship?
Nothing.
No, we just see this.
OK, Luke just wanted to prevent Kylo Ren, but he accidentally created it.
So deep, dude.
That is so deep.
I'm I'm deepened by hearing that in an attempt to prevent a thing, you cause a thing.
When is that even has anyone ever come up with that?
Is that like a common thing?
No, I don't think so.
It's brand new.
It's just said Kylo's fate was to be evil.
So I guess he just can't pick.
This video is very good.
You have every sound to be right.
This video is a scatter shot, and he's just like one of these arguments is right.
It should work out first.
First make an argument, then use the exact same argument to prove your point.
That's phenomenally tragic, and it perfectly explains what was laid out in the Force Awakens.
Also, this theme of the false future pops up again between Rey and Kylo as they start to see
each other's supposed future that neither one.
Yeah, literally, she's not seeing the future so surface level.
Rey goes, hey, you're a good guy.
I'm pretty sure you're a good guy anyway.
I know you're bad now, but you're going to be a good guy.
I'm pretty sure you're conflicted.
I know that much.
And then Kylo goes, you are too.
Okay, anyway, on to Snoke.
Thanks.
That was so deep and based on character.
Good Sky Call.
Agrees on.
Is Kylo turning good or is Rey turning bad?
Christ, that's the crap that I hated about it.
The idea that that's all we've got is like, does one good?
Does one bad?
Is one bad?
When was Rey ever bad?
You know the bit where she held his hand?
That was her being evil, I guess.
Oh, no.
Rey has never ever made a choice that is remotely negative.
It's always been in favor of something, you know, better or gooder.
You know, just shit like that.
Jeez.
That false future thing is a really good stroke that Ryan Johnson also used in his film Looper.
Yeah, Looper didn't make a lot of sense either.
So time travel.
Yeah, here we go.
In the dynamic between present and future Joe,
is the past of Bruce Willis actually the future for Joseph Gordon Levitt?
Please stop and make a point instead of just going,
you know, if you think about it, this is the job.
Is this how it is?
Is that how it is?
Maybe or maybe not.
I can't say this is perfect, by the way.
The best result possible.
Or can he change it?
The fact that Kylo likes Rey is something different.
What?
I pretty sure Vader like Luke.
How is having emotions toward a person different?
I don't understand this movie.
Luke likes his sister.
Oh, my God.
It's so different.
That's different compared to these two unrelated people.
The way that people normally think about their sisters.
People who are related like each other.
Just hate each and every one of the good guys.
But their bond made both characters.
How do you say that unironically when you're dealing with Vader and Luke
as the primary like back and forth like he's like,
we've never seen a villain like a hero.
It's like that's like the main one.
If you argue the hero of the prequels was Anakin.
Again, you've got Palpatine really liked Anakin.
And the thing too, how cliched is it for the villain to be like,
we are not so different if you and I.
No, it's the dark side when they say that now.
It's unprecedentedly amazing.
And you don't get it and you're bad.
And fuck you, you understand the genius.
We've gotten plenty of villains who just hate each and every one of the good guys.
But their bond made both characters a lot more dimensional and allowed for what?
Well, remember how he was like, hey, I may be a monster,
but Luke made me that way.
And then she liked him from that point on.
That was the dude.
This fucking relationship is nothing more has no more depth than a young adult novel
where the girl good girl thinks that she can change the bad boy
if she just like exerts her influence.
So it was in the right way, basically it.
Yeah, I have desires that are unconventional.
You know, I like to dabble in the good and the bad at the same time.
I are stakes for both of them.
We didn't know who was going to turn.
I love how he thinks that's a good thing,
that we have no idea what these characters may or may not do.
Like we can't guess.
We're just like, I don't know.
They could do anything.
Yeah, there's no consistent message here.
It's also just scattershot.
There's no direction to it.
They're just doing stuff.
I mean, it's a good in a way like it reflects his video, you know, the film.
It's like nothing makes any sense.
No consistency.
It's like, I like it.
Or the villain.
Now that is being on the edge of your seat.
What if you say so?
It's so exciting because I wanted to leave, but.
Oh, dear.
Who is going to turn the hero or the villain?
Now that is being on the edge of your seat.
Um, wow, getting a little seductive.
But this, whoa, okay.
Oh, I want to anybody really wondering whether or not Ray was going to turn.
I mean, I guess that's what you'd say.
Virgin.
If if she did turn, I would have just been confused.
So I've been like, why?
Yeah.
I mean, I don't even know why you're good.
And yeah, I was about to say, what's your motivation for doing any of this anyway?
Like, why are you here at all?
Why are you a character who is doing all these things?
What what do you why do you give a shit about any of this?
And then you might find yourself asking, wait, yeah, why would you do the good thing?
Why would you do any of the things?
Who are you?
Ray, who are you again?
Seen when Ray should be more first discover that they're now connected through the force
is easily one of the most shocking and innovative moments in this entire series.
If you say so, Lee, if you say so, that's how it works for the entire video.
You just say it's the thing, but it's the same.
So shocking, shocking.
What a strange word.
Like when I first saw that I was just kind of confused.
Like it was the way it was shot.
It just didn't I don't know.
It just didn't work.
I was like, OK.
It didn't work for me.
Somebody else in the room here.
What are you saying right now?
Or but a lot of people like the simplicity angle of it being just, you know, back and
forth different places.
But for me, I was a little bit confused.
I was like, how does this work?
What do they see?
Just imagine storm walking by.
He's got his hand all extended and he's talking to himself.
Like you're doing OK, Mr.
K. You're all right.
You need to sit down again.
Oh, I get you crazy pills.
I could have sworn Doomcock was going to say something.
I heard something.
Oh, I was just yeah.
I was just rambling on.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
Oh, no, I guess because of the delay.
I didn't want to cut you off or anything.
Are you auditioning big messages?
That's communicated in the original trilogy is to love your family and be accepting of
them no matter how shitty they are.
But the whole message of this new trilogy.
I don't even I don't even know that was really the message.
I don't even think it was a family thing.
Yeah, I mean, that was Luke's ideals, but maybe I just would argue it's a bit more
complicated than that.
I think it's not it's not about it.
However, however shit they are, you just follow through.
It's no Luke actually saw good in his.
It would be like you believe in them if there's fucking reason to you don't just go.
Well, you're family.
Therefore, I cannot kill you whatsoever.
Or you cannot possibly be a complete bad guy, which is part of the problem.
It's like he declares that Kylo is bad when he hasn't even done a bad thing yet.
So he's got like no reason other than he read his mind, apparently.
It's kind of a douche and girls.
I mean, I've not seen it.
So, you know, and I don't know if Lucas seen girls.
So like, can we confirm that in the novels?
Did Luke Skywalker watch girls?
Remotely through force projection has now become kind of the opposite.
If you have an abusive boyfriend, you should not try to change him because he is not your family
and you're just on different paths.
How is that?
Okay, one, how is that the opposite message?
Those are two different messages to that's not what happens in the film.
She tries to change him and he nearly does.
And then she decides against changing with him, which, by the way,
when he said I want to go against the Republic and the First Order, that is change for Kylo.
That's not not change, considering he was a full evil guy.
So again, confusing.
Ray didn't learn shit.
She was just like, pretty sure he's a good guy.
Oh, he's not a good guy.
Like, what lesson is there?
She was just wrong about Kylo.
Okay.
Even though they consistently back and forth that it's like,
Kylo could be a good guy.
Oh, he kills that old man at the beginning of Force Awakens.
He's definitely bad.
Like, no, he might be good.
He kills Han Solo.
He's definitely bad.
No, he might be good.
And it's like, you know, he killed Leia and Akbar.
He's definitely bad.
So you might be good.
No, he's definitely bad.
Definitely bad.
Yeah.
The boyfriend thing is weird because they never really established a strong relationship
and then she tried to stick by it or anything like that.
So I don't, I don't know where he's going with that.
That whole bit was just nonsense.
Yeah.
You really say believe in your family.
The second trilogy says don't trust angry boyfriends.
It's like, what do those points have to do with each other?
You got to let that fool go.
But that's a pretty good successor to the original theme.
Wait, wait, what was the original theme?
The original theme was believe in your family, no matter how shitty they are according to him.
I thought the original theme was that failure is inevitable.
No, no, no.
So the original theme in the original trilogy, he said, was family is shitty.
Just believe in them.
That this one is your boyfriend is bad.
Leave that guy.
That is like, apparently that's a complete reversal of the original.
I'm glad.
Because Kylo is Rey's boyfriend.
Yes.
I'm glad they showed that in a slow speed space chase.
That really shows off.
That was the vehicle they needed for the story.
Okay.
They needed it.
Well, that's what love is like.
Love is like, love is a battlefield.
Ships slowly going through space.
In space.
Fixed so many flaws of the previous films.
Midichlorians dead.
The Jedi.
Okay, no.
Midichlorians would still work.
FYI, it would just mean that Rey had loads of them.
That's all.
That's all you cover with that.
So no.
Overlooking the rise of Darth Sidious.
Acknowledged.
What?
What?
What?
Wait a minute.
We might need to back up.
Let's hear that again.
To the original theme.
This film fixed so many flaws of the previous films.
Midichlorians dead.
The Jedi overlooking the rise of Darth Sidious.
Acknowledged.
Leia kissing Luke.
Made into something normal.
General Hux being one dimension.
Okay.
So let's tackle the.
We did the Midichlorians when he's wrong.
The Jedi overseeing the thing of Darth Sidious.
He said acknowledged.
That's acknowledged in the prequels.
They actually say it.
There's lots of dialogue where they say shit like.
They've clouded our judgment and we couldn't stop the thing.
Then they all tragically die because the Jedi didn't like.
That's the story.
I don't understand how that would.
Yeah, it doesn't fix anything.
He just makes a statement.
It's like this happened last movie.
Okay.
And it's a problem because it's very ignorant.
He's basically says like the Jedi are bad because Palpatine Rose.
And it's like what you you think the Jedi wanted that.
Like that's a reason against the Jedi that that happened.
You realize that they didn't.
They did everything they could with the knowledge they had.
Yes, they were bloated and crappy.
But you're saying it like they did it on purpose.
You asshole.
They actually got made as horribly lots of them.
Apparently his book didn't have that part in it.
I don't know.
Just lay a kissing Luke made into something normal.
General Hux being one dimensional and too serious.
Now he's a joke.
Hux being one dimensional and too serious.
Now he's a joke.
Apparently that's fixing him.
Whoa.
I mean, it just slots right into his hole.
He declares it.
Therefore it's true rhetoric.
So sure, man.
Don't argue it.
Just just say it.
Oh, Dameron being too perfect.
Now he fucks up and gets people killed.
Oh, my God.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
Yeah, he fucked up and saved the entire fleet several times.
No, maybe I don't know.
Maybe I kind of wish he didn't at this point.
Yeah, it's like, fuck it.
This is the thing that people, including Lee, are just not going to understand.
Let's play the film.
Leia says, everybody come back.
And then Poe goes, okay.
He flies his X-wing over.
The bombers are so fucking slow that they just get shot down and destroyed.
And then everyone boosts out of there.
No bombers anyway.
It's like, oh, well, that's lame.
And then the dreadnought shows back up because obviously it would have not been destroyed.
And then it just bombards the shit out of the fleet because it's got the powerful cannons
and everyone dies.
Pretty much.
So that was a 10 minute film.
That was fun.
What's happening in episode nine?
I guess it'll be Rey and Luke because that's all we got left.
Well, I'm chewy.
You're demoted.
The fact that Luke's entire message.
Do you miss the part where Leia said he's allowed to go back into his X-wing and command
the fleet?
Do you remember that bit?
What do we do?
We just ignore that because it doesn't suit this narrative.
Yeah.
Well, look, you guys are really being pretty hard on this video.
Let me tell you something.
Proof is for pussies.
Just listen to his wisdom.
All right.
Is he a space wizard?
Is that why we should listen to him?
He's on a higher plane than we'll ever grasp.
The inside knowledge.
Act that Luke's entire message to Rey is to get over the myth and the legend of Luke
Skywalker, the only man that matters.
That was she learned about him like two days before.
Not only that, but he does save the day.
So I'm just was she wrong.
So I'm kind of on the cusp of a sneeze here and I don't know.
I don't know which way it's going to go.
All right.
False alarm.
But I was thinking like the timeline of these movies.
You remember the timeline of these movies is really actually small.
Oh, yeah, this is arguably a day later, this film from the other one.
Like she learned about this guy like yesterday, the day before.
And she's like, he's a Skywalker.
I thought he was a myth.
Was correcting our flaw as fans for obsessing over how Luke is depicted as if he's Jesus
and Mohammed incarnate holding him weird that we would expect him to, you know,
be wise and also fight for the people he loves.
It's almost like we expected that from the other films or something.
I don't know.
Well, even the extended universe pretty much put him on a pedestal as well.
So all the hardcore fans who love the mythos were like, yeah, he's going to do amazing stuff.
Well, yeah, because it's up to these assholes that we want Luke to be Luke.
Pretty much.
We want Luke to be consistent with the awesome character
that he has been established to be over three films.
It makes more sense that he's a wet sock that wants to kill itself.
It's a wet sock crawling into a volcano.
That's what Luke should be.
Let's be honest.
We're so resistant to change.
Also, Luke ain't no Mohammed.
Ray is way too old for him.
This is the silence of like, yes, he just said that.
Because Mohammed was a pedophile.
Up to way too high of a standard that no living human being can relate to.
When really 30 years later in the Star Wars universe,
once that myth blew over and people wised up over time,
he's just a dude who has just a dude who had the force.
Nothing.
Nothing special.
Amazing.
Just a guy like a galaxy.
What was it?
Luke's guy face.
Loon.
Luke Lenny.
Sky something.
I can't even remember his name.
He was so like mundane.
He was not really a part of the original films.
He's not really Duke.
Duke ground runner.
That was definitely it.
That was the one.
Eyes up over time.
He's just a dude who had the force.
Like anyone can.
But that similar message about getting over your idealizations.
Yeah, that's the Luke's not special.
Anybody can be a force user like Luke.
Anybody.
Like the big Lebowski with a lightsaber.
Big fucking deal.
Okay.
So here's the thing.
I can't believe I'm going to have to do this.
We're going to have to remember the...
LL Cool J or whatever this guy's name is.
Have you ever seen Ratatouille?
What's the message of Ratatouille?
Not everybody can become a great chef,
but a great chef can come from anywhere.
Even a rat.
Even a rat.
Even Duke ground runner.
Even so Luke Skywalker.
Not everybody can become the great Jedi that Luke Skywalker is,
but a great Jedi can come from anywhere.
Thank you Disney Pixar for making Ratatouille.
Yeah, I mean, they've come up with two really great quotes.
The other one, of course, being from the Incredibles.
And this one where nobody is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yep.
Exactly.
Where's Jack Jack?
But that similar message about getting over your idealizations
is also conveyed by Rose to Finn after he marvels at the visual splendor on Canto Bight.
Just before she reminds him that underneath all that...
That Orange Man bad capitalism bad.
Just before she reminds him that this place is a casino.
There's rich people here.
They benefit from literally the only...
Oh my God, they are all really orange.
Yeah, it's a kind of weird selection,
but the camera focuses hard on like the old Mr. Burns looking dude.
Mr. Burns.
Yeah, some people are like, how is this anti-capitalism?
So the idea is that these people have capitalized on the war
and they've made money off trade by providing weapons and shit to other people.
They are morally ambiguous.
They don't care when it's the war.
They're just benefiting from the fact that they can exploit a market.
And so the film is like, these people are evil.
And I remember being like, well, they're not really evil.
They're just not good or bad.
They're just nothing.
They just...
They provide weapons for people.
You're like, yes, but that fuels the war.
They're evil.
They make money.
They're...
It's like, oh, okay.
Okay.
We're delving a little bit too hard into politics now.
But the film doesn't stick to it too long, I guess.
No, it's not.
And look at these aliens.
Look how boring the aliens are compared to the aliens we've had in the original trilogy.
This is so fucking boring and generic.
I cannot stand it.
You don't like orange guy wearing mask?
Is that not...
I've seen that in like Metal Storm and things from the 80s and like Humongous and fucking,
you know, Road Warrior.
Come on.
This is nothing.
Algia, there's a dark underbelly of greed, addiction, and people get...
I'm sorry.
Greed and addiction automatically because casino can nobody gamble ethically.
Is that not possible now?
I gambled ethically.
So if I go into Las Vegas and just pop a coin in a machine, I have this guy be like,
you're being unethical.
You're greedy.
I'm like, oh, I just wanted to play a game, but okay.
Kylo gambled once, and his uncle almost killed him for it.
Like the idea that this major league guy hides behind the like slot machines,
whatever someone uses them, he goes, you're evil.
Like, oh shit.
Sorry.
Gambling is a sin against God.
Watch the last Jedi.
Okay.
Greedy with their nostalgia.
And then when someone says...
I'm sorry.
What?
What kind of...
Fuck you.
What was that?
What kind of jump was that?
He went from greedy with, with...
Spreading buddy and gabbling to greedy with nostalgia.
Greedy with their nostalgia.
A shot at us.
It was a shot at us to dress up like in Star Wars costumes as kids.
That's what it was.
Fuck you, asshole.
Oh, I definitely get that.
I'm saying how the hell did he jump to that from where he was?
Like how, what kind of just weird ass connection?
Addiction.
And people get greedy with their nostalgia.
Greedy with nostalgia.
What does that even mean?
That we...
Add for liking what we liked, basically.
I mean, Jesus Christ.
We're addicts, basically.
He's saying we're addicted to nostalgia.
Oh, is it any different?
Like gamblers in the arena.
It's like, he likes the way this went.
And it's also a continuation of what he saw when he was a kid, potentially.
It's just like, what makes it...
We didn't like it.
That doesn't mean that we wanted our nostalgia satisfied.
We just thought it was terribly written.
It's like, you didn't.
Both of us having a fucking stupid point.
And then when someone says that Rian Johnson ruined Star Wars or he wrecked their childhood,
you see that right there?
That's a frickin' wrecked childhood.
This whole scene is just one joke.
What?
What?
What are you...
Oh my god.
How is that even remotely connected?
So someone says like, oh, I hold the OT in my head as this wonderful thing.
And then these guys make these movies.
And now the OT is like stained because the story doesn't end there.
It carries on.
And every one of my favorite heroes gets, you know, grounded to do it.
And so, yes.
Well, see, the fucking thing, yeah, that he's saying is that he's equating nostalgia with a
regard for canon, with a regard for consistency of the fucking story and Luke and everything
else that we love.
He's saying it as nostalgia, as a disparaging term, when really what it is is this is not
fucking Star Wars.
These are not the characters that we know.
They're not behaving consistently.
This is not a consistent universe anymore.
If you want to call that nostalgia, fuck you.
But it's not.
It's a consistency of canon.
And just the idea is like, you know, this is like, if you make that complaint, he's
like, oh, just ruined your childhood.
You want to see a real ruined child?
This child in this film has a bad child.
It's like, oh, okay.
What the hell does that have to do with anything?
Did he watch his own video?
Like, just crazy.
Ryan Johnson ruined Star Wars or he wrecked their childhood.
You see that right there?
That's a frickin wrecked childhood.
This whole scene is just one giant symbol.
Most people who saw this film.
What was that clip for?
A symbol of what?
What's happening?
What are you talking about?
Even the ones that liked it did not get the point of this canto bite side.
Oh, I got the point, dude.
It was loud and clear and boring and pointless.
The point was pointless.
It's like, yeah, there's horrible things going on under the surface.
But, you know, it didn't really matter to me because I don't even like the surface of
canto, but I thought it was ugly as hell.
But yes, that's down to everybody's individual taste.
The messages about how the rebellion did.
Okay, so yeah, this will be fun.
You know how she gives she shows the ring.
Oh, wait, if you've got to go, dude, do you want to tell my audience
why they should subscribe to Doomcock?
What are the reasons your channel is amazing?
Isn't my channel is amazing.
I'm angry all the time.
I wear a helmet to keep my fucking head from blowing up from the rage.
My blood pressure shoots up to 400 over 350 regularly.
I hate what is being done to modern culture.
I hate what is being destroyed, which is basically the canon of all our established
properties because corporations are killing him off in order to sell us their new prefab
versions of the things that we loved in the first place.
So I resist that.
And I'm weird and funny.
And hopefully you guys will check me out at youtube.com slash overlord DVD.
And I want to thank Mahler and all of you guys.
Listen, I've met all of you for the first time today.
You are awesome.
And it has been a great honor to be here, gentlemen.
You've been a fantastic guest for loads of fun.
And yes, it's a Overlord DVD, or you could just type in Doomcock into YouTube and you'll
definitely find him.
The link is in the chat.
Subscribe.
And yeah, you'll be welcome to come back whenever you want,
possibly covering more of the last videos because man, it's definitely the speciality.
There's some people who are like, God, another Star Wars thing.
He's like, we haven't done Star Wars in a while, actually, specifically on the app.
But, you know, people feel like it's well covered.
But I mean, this video is just fantastic.
We had to see these counter arguments, guys.
I mean, the level of your intellectual acumen in dissecting this stuff is priceless.
And it has just been a pleasure to witness it and to be a part of it.
Thank you guys so much.
Seriously.
I haven't seen your channel before, but I'm going to check it out now.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate that very much, you guys.
So I'm going to head out and deal with the magma men down here at the center of the earth.
So thank you, guys.
And have a good rest of the show, man.
I will go back and hear the rest of your dissection.
Thanks.
And you were great.
Thank you, man.
I appreciate it.
Bye bye, you guys.
Bye.
See ya.
See ya.
And then there were four.
Yes.
Hail Doomcock.
And there you go.
I'm pretty sure he was like one of our highest suggested guests because of the
clear passion he has for despising this movie.
Like, it's unparalleled.
So check him out, obviously, if you'd like to see more.
And for us, we shall continue on with having us giving the explanation of why
can't abide is so good.
What I was going to say quickly is you guys remember, right?
The narrative for this is that the Republic have been in power for 30 plus years or whatever.
And then the first order destroyed them and have now started to, you know, maybe take over.
It's been a day, so they can't really have done much.
And can't abide has been a running success for this long.
These slaves and these these people are all in this position while the Republic's in power.
And so when Rose shows the ring of like, hey, guys, you know, we're the good guys,
I just find it amazing that the the kid wasn't like, you guys are the reason we're here.
You don't give a shit about us.
Like, we've been like this for years.
Why why would we care if the Republic are going to come back in power of the resistance,
the good guys, quote unquote, you know, better than the fucking first order,
considering our lives here.
Do you know what I mean?
It's a little nebulous of what exactly rebellion has to do at this of this planet,
let alone this city.
I mean, we don't know the scope of the reach of the Republic and considering that they
are associating these rich people with being neutral or at least being profitable.
It's kind of like, is this bad or is this good?
Is all this money good for them?
Are they are they happy to even be alive?
Like, I don't know.
Yeah, they clearly haven't really taken any sides.
I mean, or well, not clearly, but it's really not implied that they have taken any particular side.
This work, that's kind of what I'm getting at here.
I don't get it.
It's like, can't abide the result of the first order almost.
It's like, not really.
It's more the result of the fucking Republic, because, I mean, who have they been supplying
weapons and arms to exactly when the wars haven't even started until a day ago,
as far as we're aware.
Maybe they've been going on for ages and we just we just came in at an awkward time.
I don't know.
So the whole thing is confusing.
I don't get how any of it works.
Well, building bad.
Ray and Finn were together for the entire adventure.
In this one, they're split up.
Ray is obviously being tasked with the most important mission in the galaxy.
Why?
Anyone want us?
Why?
Yeah, it's like, who are you?
I love the idea that they sent her.
She was like, yes, you should go.
I could just see Ray be like, but I want to go home.
That's my whole deal.
The first film, I just wanted to go to Jakku.
They're like, oh, shit, you can't take an escape pod.
We need them.
She's like, oh, okay.
So who should we send instead?
It's like, oh, fucking Jeremy.
Are you available?
And he's like, yeah, I could go see Luke, I guess.
What does Ray have to do with anything?
It's like, I don't know.
She just she's the protagonist.
That's how it works.
Ray does the thing.
They already get spaced at this point when she's walking up and like
seen her or not.
Is she fine?
Spaced?
Yeah.
Does she get like launched out into space?
While this meeting was happening because send Leia.
I mean, I guess because Leia's the general, you could argue she should stay.
But I mean, I would have loved to have seen Leia go to this island.
Wouldn't that have been amazing?
Oh, that would have been amazing.
Oh, my God.
But Carrie Fisher just beat the shit out.
Yeah.
To have Luke be like, don't you understand Leia the Jedi?
She's like, shut the fuck up, Luke.
Shut the fuck up.
And he's like, oh, okay.
You are coming back right now and you're going to fix this.
And he's like, oh, my God, I'm so sorry.
Okay.
Trying to get Luke back into the fight.
But Finn is off doing the exact opposite.
A random far flung goose chase into territory he should not be in.
Doing something that seems to be a useless, aimless and partially failed endeavor.
I'm glad you agree.
Why are these flips playing?
We're on the right video?
Oh, yeah.
Why is that ring a thing?
That's the funny thing.
It's not like you need to set up for a ring.
But I found it amusing just because of the fact that, like I said,
why would this kid care who's in power?
Why would he give a shit?
Yeah, because if anything, he was raised and born.
And his parents were raised and born under the rule of the Republic.
And they got themselves into the situation.
And then why the fuck would they have any love of the resistance?
He finds out yesterday that that very government has just been toppled.
And he's like, oh, shit, really?
And then these people come in back.
These people come in like, we're going to reset it.
You'd be like, yeah, I'm I'm not I'm not digging it.
Just as important as everything else that has happened,
even though they failed to get the help of the code breaker, this whole excursion.
Well, it's fine because there's a backup code break.
It's another one in their cell with all he needs.
Oh, that's good.
Good thing that happened.
Hey, it makes sense.
Totally.
Oh, Jesus.
You know what?
I feel too guilty at this point.
I need to read some of these super chats because a lot of them have come in.
So if you guys need to get a drink or you go to a toilet, it would be a great time now.
Mom, get the camera.
Mummy, mummy.
That's I don't know how to respond to that one.
Oh, no, I've watched this video.
You're in for a treat.
We've definitely had a treat.
Yes.
Time for major lead to get destroyed.
Hope you guys have fun with this one.
Hopefully YouTube doesn't take away the super chat money from y'all.
Well, you got as long as you say nice things.
I think that's how it works.
Right.
I'm not 100% on that one.
If app is more as and moot, it's very long and its participants aren't being hasty.
Int moot.
Hello, Dakota.
How do you do?
Luke is a molester.
George Lucas always planned it.
I mean, I'd say child murderer.
I wouldn't go as far as molester like murder is fine.
There's lots of child murder in Star Wars.
It's all okay.
If the last Jedi wasn't a bad movie, then why did Johnson agree a while ago on Twitter with
the fan who wanted to reboot the last Jedi?
I don't know what that is.
But as far as I know, Ryan Johnson does defend this film regularly.
Obviously, why wouldn't he?
He did make it majorly the prime example of how to get a career based on straw man.
I mean, there are a couple of straw man's in here, but there's loads of just nothing.
He just declares things are good.
That's like the most common thing I'm finding with this video.
There's not many arguments.
It's just this was just great.
If you don't like it, you started to stand.
Fallout 4 is a better Star Wars film than the last Jedi.
I agree.
I don't even know what the story of Fallout 4 is and I know it's going to be better.
Star Trek 2009 is a better Star Wars film than the last Jedi.
Yeah, I'd agree with that.
Definitely enjoyed it more.
Rags dream stream for men with him in the middle.
I don't think he denied that.
Braveheart is better Star Wars movie than Last Jedi.
Just every movie is better than Last Jedi.
Say Raggle Fraggle.
I don't know why he needed me to say that.
Thoughts on people treating J.J.A. as if he is the new Spielberg?
He's not, I don't know.
I didn't realize people were.
I know that I wouldn't.
J.J. Abrams is his own sort of beast, I would say.
This is not quite a Spielberg.
What up, motherfuckers?
Or mother fudges.
These live streams really liven up my weekend.
Keep up the good work.
Well, thank you, Adam.
Very kind.
No arguments in his video.
That's the subversion.
Oh, well.
Yeah.
Anyone catch that new movie?
If you weren't expecting that.
Overlord.
Thoughts on what's wanted by it.
I haven't seen it, but I've heard about it.
Overlord is the new J.J. Abrams film.
I don't know if either of you three have seen it.
I saw the red letter of media review, so I'm probably going to watch it.
Oh, did they recommend it?
Oh, yeah.
It was a great, it actually was one of those weird Nazi sort of stories, but done very
intelligently.
So imagine a heist movie, but with people infiltrating this lab and it's the enemies
are Nazis and all the hijinks that gets in.
It's a pretty good classic story of Wolfenstein.
A lot of people are saying, oh, it isn't made by J.J.
It's produced by J.J. Abrams, right?
Yeah.
Pretty sure it's connected to him.
And yeah, people are saying it's good.
So perhaps check it out.
Ray equals Anakin reincarnated would have made sense.
IMO could have used old EU material to explain it.
It would explain a lot about her like hating sand.
I don't know.
Does Ray hate sand?
I'm pretty sure she's okay with sand.
I imagine that she'd be tolerant of it at this point.
She seems to have the tools to get around in it just fine.
So it probably just doesn't really think too much about it.
It's kind of like a deep sea diver setting.
He hates water.
I would be more interested in Ray describing whether or not
she's a fan of sand than watching The Last Jedi again though.
Like literally just a room.
She's just like, sand is course.
I guess it's rough.
It's not like it gets everywhere.
It's just a little better.
Who killed Captain Alex is a better star who's moving The Last Jedi.
Why is the title of the stream in quotation marks?
Well, because that's the name of his video.
So if I didn't have any quotations, you guys might be like,
why are you saying The Last Jedi is amazing?
You're all insane.
Oh, yeah.
Breaking news.
Disney hires Tommy Wiseau, Anakin and Schwarzenegger as Obi-Wan in the Revenge of the Sith 2.
I would watch it.
I would watch the hell out of that.
I just watched your measured response to H-Bomberguy for the third time and I wasn't bored.
Beautiful.
Never bored.
And hail Doomcock.
So wait, they first complain that the canon makes it to restricting
for what they can do in the future and now they're complaining that it's too open-ended.
Just admit it, they're bad writers.
Well, I mean, this video is very confusing in terms of what the actual point is.
Predictability isn't bad.
Certain rules of plot structure lend themselves to predictability.
The most unpredictable things aren't automatically good.
The most predictable things are often great.
I mean...
Yeah, sometimes people feel really accomplished when they feel that they've
figured something out, like a detective story or something like that.
People feel really accomplished when they guess it right.
Yeah, and what you can do is the most obvious thing that's gonna happen does end up happening,
but the film made you think that maybe something else could happen along the way.
Like the character is completely consistent, but there was like a thing we go,
oh wait, but no, no, okay.
Yeah, like it makes sense.
Even if there were only two options, but they're both as likely.
I mean...
Yeah, there's another one.
Hail my liege.
Democratization of mediocrity.
I think we found out episode nine's name.
Did he actually say that?
Democratization of mediocrity?
He...
Yeah, he did Doomcock did.
Oh, okay.
Uh, I was just going to say, like, that's...
There's a lot of ways you could actually interpret what that means.
Exactly.
It's interesting.
Call me crazy.
I guess Anakin from PT is Vader.
That, yeah.
It's a twist though.
Don't ruin it for everyone else.
This video is what the Star Wars fandom needed and deserved.
Well done.
That is a comment from the video, and I thought nitpicks comment in there is shit.
Well, we've gone through nearly 11 minutes, and like this video is pretty terrible.
Like it's, there's barely any arguments.
It's perfect for the people who love the film in that he's just saying the film is good,
and then states aspects.
A video in reverse of this would just be to take his script and replace Brilliant with Terrible
every time he says it.
Like, and you've got his video.
Just as much substance.
Like, that's kind of where I'm getting at.
He predicted Rey's parents were nobody, so by his own standards,
that would make it predictable and thus bad.
No, it's not predictable if he predicts it.
That's how it works.
That is genius.
Attacking someone while they're celebrating a great milestone on Twitter.
Maybe he should look for his own pride, but I guess he flushed it long ago.
What's the thing?
I wonder if he'll celebrate his thing on Twitter.
I'll leave him alone, obviously, because, well, I wouldn't even know that he's doing it,
but it's just like, it just seems petty, doesn't it?
Yeah, wouldn't it be pretty shitty if like he came up with a video that was like super
like amazing and it drew in like a very large audience and like, you know,
why wouldn't he be happy about that?
You know, it's like, so should everybody just like crap on him for coming up with something
that a lot of people liked?
Well, you see this, you see this sometimes.
If you're successful, it's almost like success and having a large audience is inherently bad.
Yeah.
Do you see this comment?
It's been posted a couple of times, so I guess I should acknowledge it.
Hi, Mauler.
Love your channel.
And I've long thought someone critically analyzing this terrible movie is great,
but 11 months of negativity is enough.
We don't want you to think about it anymore.
Stop.
I feel happy.
Number one, it's not been 11 months of negativity.
I've covered a lot of different things.
Efap has covered the Last Jedi probably more than any other subject,
but it's literally like four times, maybe.
And most of the time, it's just covering different arguments.
And I wouldn't call it negativity.
We're having, we're very positive.
We have fun.
We're making jokes.
We bounce off things.
It's all, you know, all happy and good.
So if you don't like talking about the Last Jedi, I understand.
I've got a friend of mine who comes on these podcasts,
preferably when it's not Last Jedi,
because for one, he's bored of talking about Star Wars,
but he just doesn't like the Last Jedi enough to talk about it,
which is absolutely fine.
But I still like talking about writing,
which is mainly what we do, you know?
It's not like we say the same things over and over again.
Every time we cover someone, they've got a new way of, like,
surprising us in terms of their approach.
It's like you guys would never say that Major Lee and Movie Bob
are the same beast, would you?
It's like their approach, their style, their methods of convincing an audience.
And that's what makes this interesting, is the...
It's like we're going to cover Sean eventually for his Last Jedi video,
which I can already tell you, because I've seen half of it.
It's like he has a whole different approach with the Last Jedi.
So, you know, we did Spider-Man last time.
It's not exactly the Last Jedi, you know?
And it's not exactly positive either,
because we were ripping on the video.
So I don't know.
That's how you feel about it.
But anyway, imagine if after DSi, DS1, it's DSi.
It cuts back to Obi and his hut and then he dies.
Would people go see ESB?
So, DSi is Star Wars episode four, I'm guessing?
A new hope?
I don't know.
It cuts out and then he dies.
Would people go see ESB?
Said this on the council, but you really helped more.
I'm not 100% sure of what that question is, I'm afraid,
because I'm confused what DSi is.
Do you guys have any DSi?
No.
Maybe someone in chat will pick that up.
In canon, they say Luke is addicted to death sticks.
That's why he's weird in The Last Jedi.
Please educate yourselves before you judge quality of Disney's movies.
I'm assuming that's sarcasm, because death sticks are funny as fuck.
I still like that a bit.
Like, unironically, I enjoy the fact that he's like,
you want to go home and rethink your life.
I want to go home and rethink my life.
Man, if it worked that well, you know, you could save a lot of lives.
You guys should watch Goblin Slayer instead.
I've seen episode one.
What about you guys?
People have told me to do so.
I haven't seen it.
Yeah, I think the first episode was where they introduce how hardcore this sort of story is,
and then it just sort of alleviates the fact that, okay,
now it's going to be about the struggle of the protagonists trying to survive in this world where
goblins are a thing and there's other creatures involved.
So it's sort of straight away from that, you know, rape and pillage and murder.
But there's still a lot of killing, so.
DS1 means Death Star One, apparently.
Oh, okay.
So imagine after Death Star One, it cuts back to Obi-Wan and his hut, and then he dies.
Would people go see Empire Strikes Back?
So you're saying, like, he does the same thing as Luke, where instead of dying to Vader
on the thing, it cuts to him, like, meditating, and then he fades away in his hut.
I mean, would people go and see Empire Strikes Back?
Probably, just because just see what happens next, but that would be confusing as hell if he did that.
It would be like, why the hell was Obi-Wan in his hut the whole time?
Did he ever touch anybody?
Okay, just be bizarre, but yes, I understand what you're saying now.
Uh, why destroy the EU in the first place?
Thrawn trilogy movies equal profit?
I genuinely felt that way when I found out, like, I got a synopsis of what the Thrawn trilogy was,
and I was like, why the hell didn't they just make that into movies?
Seemed like the smarter choice.
I grew up in a part of the US where the 60s never died.
How the absolute fuck is this shit?
More hippy dippy than anything I've seen before.
What, the film or the video?
Kylo did nothing wrong, make the galaxy great again.
Jack and Solo, Darth Cadius, kills Mara Jade, later FG Luke visits him and says,
there's still good in you.
TLJ Luke thinks about killing nephew in sleep.
RKKRJJJ in sequel trilogy.
I understand.
There's a lot of abbreviations there, but I follow.
You have the Force, you have the Force, then you have the Force.
But that was okay, you know?
But like, it's the being really good with it.
That's the problem.
You know, someone being able to move a pebble is fine.
Or a broomstick.
Well, this is a 40 minute, 7 minute video.
If y'all make it to the end, then we'll have a proper refab.
There's no way we'll get to the end.
Like, these people have lives.
Skywalkers and Solos, queers compared to Corleones.
I mean, that's such a completely different thing, dude.
Nightmare never ends.
Still Shill's defending this trash fire while Solo gets thrown under the bus.
Thanks for keeping up the good fight.
I mean, it's always fun to just check out the other side, you know?
They think we're insane as this video is titled, so it's worth seeing why, I suppose.
He sounds like he's talking about World of Warcraft expansion pack.
He does a lot of inference, this guy.
Like, a lot of writing for the film, I felt.
Training a child slave to be a Jedi, what could possibly go wrong?
20 years later, the reign of Darth Broomboy, the most brutal in the galaxy.
I mean, he could be Anakin all over again.
If Krayt was a deserted salt planet, how could nobody mind it?
I mean, I don't even know what the history...
They said that there used to be a rebel base on there, right?
So maybe they didn't mind some of it.
I don't know, why would you mind salt?
How does it even work?
It's like red on the bottom.
Then after a certain amount of time, it comes to the top and turns into salt.
Is that what we're supposed to assume about the ecology?
I don't know.
Salt flats are a thing.
It must be that, but on a planet.
As a rookie, I rushed to know the difference between legends and canon.
Canon is a garbage group of issues made for the SJW agenda.
Your thoughts on this?
Bring back legends?
I don't know enough about it, I'm afraid.
I don't know about legends, yeah.
I checked Wikipedia and I was wrong about FG Luke.
He's still alive, but it's still something that Luke would have done.
He saw the good.
Absolutely.
Are there people who died succeeding in escaping this dumpster fire?
Oh, you mean Han may have died, but at least he's dead now.
So they can't continue to ruin them.
Y Rose didn't just tell Finn, if you go, I'm with you,
regardless of the resolution, it would have been the most dark romantic scene ever.
Maybe.
If she was like, I just wanted to die with you, that would have been a bit.
I don't think the audience would have liked that.
Reylo fans, the same kind of people who write love letters to serial killers.
Well, apparently this guy wanted that bad.
Ryan Johnson said in an interview, Luke and Rey's relationship is the beating heart of this film.
I remember reading that.
I really don't.
I don't know where he's coming from with that.
I would need a whole film for him to explain it.
But Snoke had already turned his heart.
How, why, when, over years, weeks, we don't need to see that.
It's not important how Kylo Ren went from being the son of Han Solo and Leia
being trained by Luke and who was turned away from them.
That's not something you guys would want to see, is it?
That's kind of boring, right?
Yeah, things don't have to be exclusively like amazing and terrible.
I mean, like, you could have things that people want to see that would be cool
and also have them well written and consistent with lore.
Kylo thought his uncle was trying to touch him.
That's a fair concern, I think.
I was hoping Rey would turn to the dark and have romance with Kylo like Raven.
Touching with his death stick.
And Bastila, or Bastila, I'm not sure.
But then Ryan severed my expectations by doing boring.
Let's go to her.
Yeah, I figure it's from something like that.
But it's like, yeah, he, Ryan baited going one way or the other and then did nothing.
That was the conclusion.
Response 78, orange aliens bad.
Yes, like Doomcock was not a fan of that particular orange alien.
Star Wars Episode 7, Knights of the Old Republic, New Republic, or Episode 7, New Jedi Order.
Knights of the New Republic or New Jedi Order.
Are you saying like if we were to choose a name?
I would like Knights of the New Republic.
That could be cool.
Knights of the New Republic would be good.
It would be like there.
It would be a wink and a nod to, you know, the old games that everyone loves practically
universally that, you know, are really interesting and people like.
So if they could unofficially acknowledge that they're aware of those things,
then that would be nice to see.
Halo 5 Guardians had three different planets.
How well did that go for 343?
More does not equal better.
One location can be shown for greater use.
I mean, I don't even feel like they did much with three.
You know, they had three in The Last Jedi and it's like, what was it?
It's like window dressing.
I can't believe he said they were so detailed.
It's like, no, it's like surface level for all three of them.
It's just strange assessment.
My Uncle Dave recently said that Solo is the second best Star Wars movie next to A New Hope.
We are committing this retarded man to a mental health.
Okay, Luke's surviving outweighs the survival of the entire resistance.
They're fucking incompetent.
Luke's sacrifice as a waste changed my mind.
We're not going to be the ones that would change your mind on that one,
but perhaps Lee can.
The NR signed an armistice with the GL forcing them to demilitarize.
For some reason, they thought it would be fair for them to do it too,
which explains the lack of a fleet at the beginning of TFA.
Does it?
I'd need to, I'm not 100% sure what the acronyms are for.
And that's also true.
I figured it out.
It's alien rhino milk, 100%.
I mean, definitely matches.
First, yeah, that's bullshit with rags molar and
that's got to be smothered.
It's not doing cock.
Well, through doing cock in there as well.
And then that's the dream come true.
Yes, I agree.
He actually said the next dream is a new desk bullshit video.
I wish I really do, dude.
I'm right with you there.
And you said doo doo.
How many times they're going to introduce a new chosen one
destined to bring balance?
Nothing unique about the chosen one.
Now the forces are slut.
And I got through all the fucking chats.
I'm so sorry.
It took so long.
I want to make sure everybody's read out.
So is everybody still alive?
I am alive.
Excellent.
While you were doing those, I was fixing something in editing.
So I'm done now.
And I'm going to just sit here and render it for half an hour
while I do this.
Isn't it?
Wait, it's strange that they say everybody can have the force,
but since Kylo, nobody has come forward,
both sides should at least have some forces.
That's also true.
But hey, whatever.
It's like they'll give us them in episode nine, probably.
But yes, let's continue.
It was not a waste of time because they ran into this young Jedi kid
and showed him and his friends that the resistance is real.
Why would they give a shit?
The resistance is real.
The Republic was a thing yesterday.
They were in power.
Why would these kids not know about the good guys?
What?
Don't even bother.
Why would they even call the good guys the good guys?
Well, I just find it funny as well, because what if...
Let's just say, for example, these guys came here two days ago
and they're like, the resistance is real.
And they'd be like, are you resisting the Republic?
Are you the baddies?
I'm having trouble keeping track.
It's like, no, no, no.
There's three factions.
The good guys, the bad guys, and the other good guys.
Apparently, Downward Thrust made a video on the 14th
called The Battlefield Hate Train Problem That Needs Stopping.
It's not doing too well.
It never does too well for you.
The stuff of their action figure legends.
This random little thing that happened in the scene
that everyone thought was useless
could be a very important piece of Star Wars history.
And the...
It could.
It could.
Do you know what would have satisfied him?
If Rey, like, just sat in a room for an hour and did nothing
other than move a chair,
and then some guy comes in that room later
and he's like, the chair's been moved,
I'm gonna enact a policy that'll affect the world.
And he's like, see?
It wasn't pointless, because it led to the thing.
It's like, it doesn't matter if everything,
everything else did, but it's not even in the movie.
So it's pointless for the movie.
God damn it.
Everyone hates Broom Boy.
The fact that it happened organically or accidentally,
like, they just stumbled in.
Nothing happens organically in a written film, dude.
That's not where I'd be sitting in that room.
No, that's not how it works.
That makes this whole moment all the more believable.
It also sends the message that maybe being a rebel
was really the same thing as being a Jedi.
Oh.
What?
What?
What are you talking about?
That hell scene with the kid reaching for the Broom,
like, what is he sweeping?
He's in the middle of the night.
You probably can't see very well.
It's an establishing shot just to say,
yeah, this kid has the force.
If you were paying attention for those past, you know,
seven seconds.
I mean.
Also, what was your kid in the cage doing?
I couldn't quite make it out.
Was he, like, knitting something?
Oh, I mean, we can go back just to see it.
I'm pretty sure you just sit in there.
I was just kind of curious.
It was just kind of weird.
Very important.
Don't you want to listen to Major Lee's great points again?
Like, come on.
Yeah.
Chance to hear.
A piece of Star Wars history.
And the fact that it happened organically or accidentally,
like, they just stumbled into him.
That makes this whole moment.
Yeah, it looks like he's just.
Now he's just sitting there.
He's chilling.
That's his bedroom, I guess.
And I guess they share pens.
They share spaces with animals.
All right.
That's how tough the life is, dude.
Gigantic.
It would make more sense if that was maybe a robot with him.
But every day he wakes up to a massive pile of shit
that lands on his face.
It's a terrible, hard, horrible life.
Three times the size of a horse.
This thing's like a massive dump right next to him.
I like the idea, by the way.
That's actually a pretty clean pen, too.
Yeah, he does a good job.
I mean, if he lives there, he better keep it clean.
They bump into the one kid who can help them because he's sympathetic to their side.
This guy considers that organic.
It's like he was placed there to be found, dude.
Like, if they'd opened any other pen, he wouldn't have been in it.
So obviously, this is just contrived.
The whole film is contrived.
Like, don't even go there.
Organic.
What are you all about?
All the more believable.
It also sends the message that maybe being a rebel
was really the same thing as being a Jedi.
What does that mean?
What?
What does that mean?
Using that clip, I thought he was going to say janitor.
I don't know why.
Yeah.
All rebels are Jedis, not all Jedis are Jedis.
If you want to be a Jedi, you become a Jedi.
Oh, man.
You could sweep the crap out of things.
Yeah, it's like the kung fu story.
You start off as a sweeping everything,
and then you suddenly can break trees in half.
Wax off, wax off.
All along.
Oh, my God.
It gives me chills just talking about it.
Same goes for the south.
I'm so sorry.
I'm going to rub your nipples.
You know, I actually called it too.
I actually said back in 2015 that this would be...
This video is like the equivalent of just mental masturbation.
I got the chills because it was my story on screen.
Someone said he unironically sounds like a Mr. Plinkip, but for real.
This is kind of like... I'm starting to see that.
That's good.
It's giving himself a stroke.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I got it.
Oh, my God.
What's wrong with your face?
It gives me chills and my penis.
What's wrong with your face?
What's wrong with your chills?
Why are you going to go chills?
The chills just talking about it.
Same goes for this scene.
And this one.
And this one.
I'm going to say there are scenes that give me chills.
That's an argument, I think.
Only in the most superficial way of it looks good.
The noise, the sound, you know, things happening on the screen.
I like X-Wing.
I mean, I like Millennium Philokolans.
I like the... What are they called?
The bad guy ships.
I like crystals.
I like music.
This is from Star Wars.
I like these chills.
Chills, guys.
Well, he wasn't bored.
I hate to interrupt, but look at this guy's name.
From the first scene to the last, every single moment...
That's not the last scene.
Yeah.
The one with the bombardment is not the last scene.
I'm not being pedantic.
He's just, you're lying to me.
Scene to the last, every single moment of The Last Jedi matters.
Paige not only sacrificed herself to destroy a dreadnought,
but also so her sister Rose could make it to Canto Bight.
And she could end up saying,
you shouldn't sacrifice yourself to save people.
That's bad.
You have to do it for love, like my sister did,
which was the exact same move.
It makes so much sense.
I wonder if he's going to cover that.
Paige is...
Because remember, you don't know her name in the film,
but her hotter Rose Tico died.
And that completely contradicts her scene at the end.
But how does her sister's sacrifice allow Rose to go to the planet to give the ring?
She wasn't motivated before.
But now she is.
I always thought the film was going for the fact
that Rose didn't like that her sister died that way.
And that's why she stopped Finn.
But no, it's like, there's so many takes you can have
because none of it makes any sense.
Destroy a dreadnought,
but also so her sister Rose could make it to Canto Bight,
give this kid the ring,
and create the new future resistance.
How do those things connect?
How do those things connect at all?
I thought I was just,
I thought I was the one that was lost.
Okay, I'm glad you guys are too, Jesus.
So Broom Boy is the next iteration and his two friends
are the next iteration of the resistance?
So the formula with this guy,
either just stay as good
or take a thing that doesn't make sense,
point out something else and just connect them.
Like you just go from sentence to sentence
and you hope people don't realize that you've got no connector.
It's like Luke drank the milk,
thus Yoda burning the temple makes sense.
And you're like, and he's like,
and it's perfect, by the way, it is perfect.
And if you don't like it, you don't understand storytelling.
Just so admit you like it.
Otherwise you don't understand storytelling.
Okay. Okay.
Okay.
It's all by accident.
Blow that piece of junk out of this.
All by accident.
The film just feels good to look at.
It feels good to look at.
That's probably the best argument I've ever heard in favor of that.
There's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
that we can see TIE fighters in this picture chasing one ship,
no cover because they're flying.
That'll be fine.
Oh yeah. I love that.
When they had the entire fleet of TIE fighters defending the cannon
and then they're like, the Millennium Falcon sent every tie after it.
Even if it means the cannon might get destroyed, who cares?
Just edible.
It's like, oh, and he's like, why did Kyla do that?
Well, your honor, my guy's insane.
That's why that makes sense.
He's just crazy.
He sent all the...
You could have just kept one TIE fighter.
But then again, you're like, why does that matter?
You've got a whole army of 8080s there or 80 whatevers, the Gorilla Visions.
So how would...
I don't understand this formation too.
Why would you have them all lined up like that
when they should be in front of the cannon until it's ready to fire?
I mean, that would make more sense.
It's just retarded.
But I mean, it's just funny because if you remember,
Finn is the only one for ages heading towards the cannon.
For some reason, all of them can't seem to shoot him.
They're just like, oh, no.
They kill like six of the team in a row
and then suddenly they're unable to shoot anymore.
It's just like, okay.
But I was so happy during this moment.
Just thinking about what Luke had said earlier in the film.
Hey, do you guys like the argument?
I was so happy.
I mean, yeah.
Well, I'm convinced.
I was so happy and I felt good.
Felt good.
During this moment,
just thinking about what Luke had said earlier in the film
and then watching that kid raise that broom up like a sword.
I felt like there's hope for everyone in the galaxy.
Oh, you sure do, buddy.
Who's got some kind of force?
Who's the one that can't get on nostalgia now?
It's like the little kid with a broom is like a sword.
You're like, hey, that's a high force horse.
That never happened in the original trilogy.
No one identified with Luke whatsoever.
Luke who?
Luke, Luke Solo.
Is that what was watching that kid raise that broom up like a sword?
I felt like there's hope for everyone in the galaxy.
You felt like there was hope after literally everyone was killed.
Apart from like 20 people and there's one ship.
Are you kidding me?
Yeah, but the kid with the broom on that planet far away.
The kids with the broom is going to be the fucking protagonist.
The next one is going to be like an awkward piece of exposition where he's like,
he's walking around like Ray's like, who are you?
And he's like, you once met me, but no shit.
It was Rose.
I had a broom.
That was me.
And then I grew up to be the greatest Jedi ever.
I was Kylo Ren.
Oh my God.
I felt like I could have the force.
The movie was literally connecting with me on a spiritual level.
Good for you.
A spiritual level.
It was you connecting.
What does spiritual mean?
On a spiritual level for everyone.
Was that after his, uh, his green soy smoothie or was he like,
You have to get the milk connection.
Otherwise, oh, the milk, right?
With you in a spiritual level.
What does that even mean?
That's just one of those words people throw out.
They're like spiritual.
What does that mean?
You don't get it because energy, man.
You just, you just don't believe in emotionals.
That's why don't believe in emotionals.
This is a big old hate.
You don't get spiritual tisms.
This is how other people felt about the film.
This movie and everyone who, hey, I like this guy.
Makes some good points.
He's making as many cogent arguments as Lee is.
So, you know, more of this guy.
Yeah.
Stay on this guy.
If you haven't seen the last Jedi, don't go and say it first of all.
Okay.
Don't watch it.
Don't go see the last Jedi.
This movie is a trap.
It's a trap.
He has literally made a connection.
You know what?
I, I was wrong.
This video is amazing.
It's really, it's good.
It's got some great arguments against the film that really show how bad it is.
You know, I appreciate it Lee.
You've definitely opened the mind there because you see the beginning part was just a joke.
Like he was, he was parroting people who would defend the film and now he's bringing in the real arguments.
It was not a good Star Wars film.
Anybody with half of a brain should not have ended up approving what we got.
I agree.
Yeah.
Look at this poor man.
I also agree.
This poor soul.
How do you think his spiritual levels affected?
Yeah, here's what I was about to say.
You can't mock other people for their reactions when you give us the
bullshit line of it connected with me on a spiritual level.
But I saw the kid with the broom and it was like a sword.
He was like a sign from God.
That's embarrassing.
But yeah, no, these are the people who are like unreasonable and insane.
Dude, calm down.
It's a reaction video.
He's inhaling and exhaling.
What do you want us to do?
When he tells you to watch this movie or even recommends you viewing this,
um, de-friend them, eradicate them, eradicate them.
Kill them in their sleep.
Luke Skywalker them, I guess.
Give the old Skywalker treatment.
Oh, man.
Yeah, because if you like a movie, you're on the path to darkness,
but hating it with rage.
Yeah, that's not dark at all.
How do you hate something without rage?
I don't even, I don't even, do you want, do you want us lead?
You want us to say that, uh, yes, you should be allowed to love the movie.
Okay.
You're allowed.
We're not, we're not going to prevent that from happening.
It's okay.
Obviously you're allowed to not lie.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna take a huge leap here and say that the guy was being hyperbolic.
That's my, you know, when he said he'd recommend you kill the person who likes the film.
I think, personally, I think he was being hyperbolic.
That's just my guess.
He might've been going for, yeah, comedic sort of.
I mean, if he was trying to make people laugh, it worked.
He's like arrested for encouraging the mass mid.
Shit, I said that in the UK.
Just kidding.
No, that makes sense.
Worst film of 2017?
Possibly.
I can't remember what else came out.
The argument can be made.
Yeah, I wouldn't even say that's hyperbolic.
I guess it's possible.
People liked his video more than yours.
Really?
It was worse than Fifty Shades Darker.
Probably.
Just because Fifty Shades Darker doesn't have any stock to begin with.
It's like...
Actually, yeah, it is.
It sounds like 47% or 46% I think.
Yeah, so the audience, yeah.
Look, it's liked it more.
It was worse than The Emoji Movie.
Possibly.
I haven't seen it.
I haven't seen The Emoji Movie.
I haven't either.
Yeah, okay.
And Ray's parents, like, just don't set it up.
I love this guy.
Because again, this isn't me as a crazy fan where I'm trying to think of ideas
and I'm in my own head here.
There was the whole point of The Force Awakens.
That was not the whole point of the entire film.
Not even close.
There was a lot of stuff going on in that film.
You had Kylo.
You had Snoke.
You had...
You can't just name characters and say that stuff is going on.
There were characters.
Characters were the film.
Lots of things were happening.
Han and Leia, the history of Luke and Kylo.
Yeah, the history of Luke and Kylo relegated to what?
Two sentences in the film, maybe?
Yeah, like two minutes total of exposition and flashback.
There was the whole point of Ray's plot were her parents.
That's what she was trying to do the entire time.
Trying to find them, trying to wait for them, trying to get around the problem
of her being alone and always focusing back on her life and what it was supposed to be.
I love, I love, I love.
Stormtroopers were also in the film, so that's more things.
And X-Wings, yeah.
And if you notice, there's a bit of blood and muck on this guy, the stormtrooper.
So that's another thing.
That's another thing that was in it.
That's not...
Stormtroopers do have blood.
That's true, yeah.
Oxygen was in the film, I believe.
A lot of the actors are breathing.
I believe so.
And look, look, look.
He's on the hill.
Being a stormtrooper anymore, Phasma and Hux and...
Phasma, really?
We're naming Phasma.
Oof.
That's a, that's a, oof.
Speaking of hills, Rags, that's one to die on.
Please talk more about Phasma.
Down in that film, you had Kylo, you had Snoke, you had Han and Leia,
the history of Luke and Kylo, Finn not being a stormtrooper anymore,
and Phasma and Hux and Poe.
And then to just sort of blow up...
Literally just named characters and things.
Yeah, yeah.
Are you kidding me, man?
Come on.
This is a joke.
...off that way.
Yeah, blow it off by introducing the most relatable theme this series has ever had
by saying, yeah, she's a nobody, and you can achieve greatness...
The most relatable thing?
As if the films were saying you can only achieve anything if your parents are a person.
How many times do I have to explain this to you?
We just want to know where power came from.
Not the ability to use the Force.
How she's so fucking good at it.
That's it.
And if you'd had parents that were strong with the Force,
there would have been a good explanation.
That's it.
That's it.
And the theme of failure from everything in The Last Jedi
does not negate what the theme was for Rey was, at least in The Force Awakens.
So what point is he trying to make here?
That the one movie doesn't negate, or it does negate the theme of the previous movie?
Like, what is he getting at here?
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
Thing.
Ugh, so terrible.
Rian Johnson gives us that.
And it's so disappointing.
So underwhelming.
So unlike what Luke should be like as a character.
But more so because all those diehard fans of the originals
and who love the expanded universe will know what they think he should be like
because of all those stories that they hold dear to their hearts.
Did you not see the announcement on StarWars.com?
I don't think he gives a shit.
He just told you how people feel.
You utter retard.
He's trying to tell you that people had expectations.
They felt suit and way.
Did you check the postal set?
It's not a thing no more.
Okay.
Back in 2014, where they said very openly that episodes seven, eight and nine
will not tell the same story as the expanded universe.
Yes.
And he's explaining to you that that's a thing that people did not like
and why they felt the way they did as a result.
And hell, just because you say that a legend is no longer a part of it whatsoever.
That doesn't mean you can't basically copy and paste them,
which is kind of what a lot of people were hoping they would do anyway.
But that's not what that fan was saying.
He was saying about Luke's character.
He was in referencing the expanded universe.
He was just talking about the movie, Luke.
Well, you did have it.
He threw the books up on screen.
So what?
Well, let's just listen to him again in fairness.
This will know what they think he should be like
because of all those stories that they hold dear to their hearts.
Did you not see the...
Yeah, I think he's saying that this is how they expected Luke to be
with all the stories that came from the extended stuff.
Everything up to this point was pointing at a clear, consistent character.
Yeah, and I'm pretty sure he's not even saying that this is like the definitive problem.
It's more so that this is how he and many others will feel thanks to this having existed.
We see all of this.
The books came from the movies, obviously,
but they didn't change his character whether or not he developed differently.
He's still the same Luke.
You can't deny that that's a thing you'd have to be concerned with.
It's like, oh yeah, there's all these people who have this...
There's a completed storyline for him that exists,
and we're not only nuking it, we're going the complete opposite direction.
There's nothing wrong with nuking it.
It's just that were those stories consistent?
Were they reflective of what we were shown as the movies went?
Because that's where all this hoopla came from, obviously.
He's making the same argument whether it's just the movies or from the books.
It's the same character.
I find it funny because he's like, didn't you know that they decanonized it?
It's like, if that guy was that obsessed with legends, then yes, he did know about this.
So obviously his point is irrelevant of this.
That's a shit decision.
Now I see the problem.
Did you forget that you're watching the sequel trilogy
where Luke is no longer the most powerful Jedi ever?
Like that he shows Rey.
Yes, she's the most powerful.
Yeah, this isn't a counter to his point.
Nope.
Why wouldn't Snoke be the most powerful Jedi?
I can't believe it.
Why wouldn't Kylo be the most powerful Jedi?
Why would it be some nobody that that's Rey?
And how Lee hasn't picked up the people.
He's just skipped over.
It's like, why does Rey have that powerness?
How?
Why?
Why?
How?
How?
Why?
No.
No comment on that.
Not even.
Okay.
You better get past that because we're two movies in already.
Yeah, get past it.
Even though there's no hang on.
Wasn't Luke Luke still is the most powerful after the movie just pulled off in the movie.
Right?
Like it before Luke dies.
He still was the most powerful Jedi in the canon from the sequel trilogy.
There's no like that's a thing too.
Because he surpassed two others.
Well, he didn't like surpass Yoda.
He just died, but he surpassed Darth Vader and then he became, you know.
Well, it's just, if you remember, Kylo was like, if you did this, it would kill you to Rey.
And that's the setup for why it kills Luke in the end to do something that amazing.
And the logic would be that, oh, Luke only pulled it off because he's like the most
powerful force user currently.
And like, you know, Lee is saying is like, ah, see, he's not the most powerful.
And it's like, no, I'm pretty sure he is.
Like even according to the movies, he still is.
It's just that Rey also happens to be extremely powerful for no reason.
Yeah, she could beat his ass.
For me, Star Wars died at the end of episode seven.
Oh, come on.
He said for me, what's the subjectives?
If he was a giant Death Star sized ball of cheese compared to the last Jedi.
That film was not Star Wars.
It completely lacked the heart of Star Wars.
Yeah, this lacks the heart.
This totally isn't Star Wars at all.
Shows lightsabers and explosions.
Goes spectacle.
Yeah.
Great, great, great argument, man.
That's all Star Wars is in the heart.
It's just explosions and lightsabers.
They paid a lot of money for special effects.
In from no country for old men.
I don't know what movie this is supposed to be from.
Is this Forrest Gump?
I just can't tell what they were going for.
Is that what his point was?
That there was nothing from Star Wars in terms of iconography in this film.
No, he said it had none of the Star Wars hearts.
Try and follow along there, Lee.
For here.
We're basically starting from the exact same point we started.
Ben Shapiro.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Ben Shapiro is getting in on.
Ben Shapiro jumping on the DLJ train.
He's like, on behalf of all Jews, this movie's terrible.
Israel condemns the last Jedi.
Strange.
I did.
I guess he reviews films as well.
I didn't even know.
Started in episode four, where the Empire is in control.
And literally, it is the beginning of Star Wars.
I mean, the Empire ship is chasing the first order ship is chasing this transport vessel.
It's literally the beginning of episode four.
How is this anything like the beginning of episode four?
Their attack.
Well, he's probably highlighting the fact that it's a chase.
Yes.
That's probably what he's going for.
Yeah, they're escaping.
You don't need to.
Obviously, Ben was not referring to the Poe destroying cannons as the same thing
as the Star Destroyer chasing the Tentive.
Is it Tentive four?
I need a brush up on my Star Wars lore.
But the edges just come on, man.
Give him a little bit of benefit of the doubt.
Of course, he's not saying that.
Backing a dreadnought by choice.
What?
Because they both feature a war going on in space.
Look at the title of the freaking series.
What a great counter.
You got him.
Yeah, boy.
And the intro of this film leads into what is arguably the most character-driven space battle.
What?
What?
The one-space battle?
What is it?
What is he even saying?
Oh, I need to go in about 30 minutes.
I do have to be somewhere before it closes up.
Maybe we should call it in 30 minutes.
Oh, then again, it's only still three.
Well, would you two still be able to stay?
We could continue with another one dropped.
Absolutely, buddy.
Go, go.
People get really angry when I only do a three-hour eFAB.
It's insane.
Series.
They had no sort of explanation to why there was gravity
when they were dropping bombs from the plane.
Right.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
The bombs had little red lights signifying there was something electronic going on with it.
Oh, is that right?
Dictionary.
Red lights means the thing that bombs don't take people.
I never got the memo.
Did that come with your ticket?
I never got that book.
Yeah, I don't know.
Did you get the required reading, guys?
But this says the bombs are then drawn magnetically towards their unfortunate targets.
The unfortunate target is the bomber.
I was going to say, if it's the bomber dies from a bombing,
bombs don't turn any drama.
My ground is either upheld by the racks by sequence electromagnetic play.
I love that they say all this stuff and it's just like, see, we fixed the problem
because we put it here.
It's not in the movie, but we put it here.
Fixed read this in order to enjoy the last Jedi that they're magnetically drawn to their
time.
I can't believe he cites this like I got a comment recently on one of my videos about how
I didn't understand something in Fallen Kingdom, the second drastic world film in
terms of like what I perceive to be a plot hole because I didn't read the website that
was released with information to bind the first and second drastic worlds together.
I was like, why the fuck do I have to read a website to be able to?
Let's actually look at this because how do you have that powerful electromagnet on
thousands of bombs that to target something a kilometer or two away?
Like how does that even work?
How does how does this thing get attracted to something?
And not to mention the fact that you said red lights means something electronic means
magnetic.
You know, my flashlight has a light on it.
Does that mean it's magnetic?
Is that how this works?
And I can understand that even if what you do is say this is how the bombs fall,
that doesn't change how ridiculously stupid the design of the bomber actually is.
It's still it's still completely stupid, and it makes no sense at all.
And anyone with a brain would have just you have characters discuss it in some way,
shape or form just have it said so we can be like, okay, fine, I can believe it.
But yeah, this ties back to the just do you want to talk about how stupid the design is
for these bombers?
Do we really want to go there?
We're going to outpedant each other with like trying to figure out whether or not
there's gravity.
It's like, how about we just go a bit wider?
How about we look at the big picture and just talk about how stupid the bombers are?
And also who gives a shit?
It was a good film, but I didn't.
Oh, okay.
Well, who cares?
It looks like he's reading a quote.
But the fact that he said who cares, I find it funny because it's like,
yeah, who cares about the thing that allows them to destroy the one element in the film
that was going to basically kill the main characters?
Who cares about something like that?
Why does that need to make sense?
Roger Ebert dot com majorly.
I'll give us that you can read it out for us.
...explains that they're magnetically drawn to their targets.
And also who gives...
Wait, magnetically drawn to their targets?
I thought they're magnetically expelled from...
Yeah, I would have thought that's how it would work, not.
Well, that's what I said.
...magnetically drawn to their targets.
So possible for a distance that long and to have those objects be so weak,
to have a magnetic charge that can extend, you know, this is like at least a kilometer or two
in space, right?
This is pretty far.
There's no way you're going to have a charge that...
Well, why wouldn't it be attracted to the ship that's dropping?
Yeah, exactly.
Why wouldn't they stick to where they are?
Or the next bomb in sequence.
I mean, they would just...
Would it make sense?
Because magnets, okay.
How do they work?
I mean, some would probably argue that like the ship is made of like a different material,
something like that.
Well, then why wouldn't they put that different material plating on the
exterior to counter these types of things?
It doesn't make any sense.
To reference Red Letter Media, it's like people are like, oh,
why don't they just put thrusters?
Or why don't they just have a missile with these things in them?
Fucking hell.
Like, why do you need it to be this method?
It's like, but it references the world war machines.
You're like, oh, and you pat Ryan on the head and say, good job.
A shit.
It was a good film, but I didn't care for the lack of bomb science exposition.
The whole thing on the island, the beginning part of the island was terrible.
It was all just terrible.
You did the same thing, but in reverse in this video.
Yeah, exactly.
What the hell?
Have some self-awareness.
It's crazy.
It's just so good.
I agree with that guy.
It was supposed to be something monumental, not something that was just played for jokes.
You're telling me that Luke throwing the symbol of the Jedi Order off of a cliff,
basically saying that the force is bigger.
Basically saying there was no saying.
He just threw it.
Yeah, he just threw it and walked away.
Sorry, I missed the dialogue, but yeah.
Ryan was going for a chuckle.
Most people were like, wait, what?
And he's clearly missed the point here.
There's two things.
Number one being that it's completely conflicting tone with what JJ set up with.
You know, it was very epic and mysterious.
It was like, what's going to happen now?
How is he going to react?
And so any clashes it with funny and you're like, oh, that's a bit of a jarring.
And then the second point is that we don't know the context for him throwing the lightsaber
until you see the film.
So that scene does not work with that explanation because we don't know about that yet.
Everyone should go actually watch Roz Weston's rant because it's pretty cool.
Like it's him on live air just going nuts.
Pretty funny.
Yeah, you know what I mean, though?
Like he's saying, like, it makes sense if you consider how Luke feels in this moment.
It's like, but nobody saw that in their first playthrough.
So it's just it's just awkward and weird.
Like people in the audience don't know how to feel for the most part.
I mean, of course, some some just loved it because they just know.
I don't know.
Even if context was available, like, even if you watch it, you're like, what?
And then we figure out something's wrong with Luke is like, oh, then it's the movie.
Then just the Jedi bigger than lightsabers wasn't monumental enough for you.
And when J.J. Abrams set it up in The Force Awakens and everything sort of that we knew
about Luke and Ray and that story of them, you know, coming together.
Oh, my precious moments of Luke and Ray meeting the film.
What?
What the whole film built up to this moment?
Yeah, it's weird that he's punishing the viewer for paying attention to the film at this point.
Yeah, it's like, oh, that oh, that amazing J.J. Abrams.
Oh, it's not that big a deal.
Oh, it's not that precious.
Okay.
All right.
When all the film did was make you care about it.
You weirdo.
It's like, I can't believe he's making the argument like he's downplaying this other guy's
opinion just for the sake of it.
Oh, I mean, it's yeah, this seems to be a sort of quick fire.
Just you're wrong because this you're wrong because this you're wrong because it's okay.
All right.
Chill out everything to my religion.
What did you want the moment to be some corny?
Oh, thank you for returning my weapon.
So many.
I don't think that's what we were going for with that.
No, but of course, if you just think of a stupid, silly thing and then say,
that's what we could have had.
And that would have been weird.
It's like, oh, right.
Great memories I had with this.
No, he didn't want the fucking thing.
And also, just because people in the.
So this is the other angle a lot of people say is that they would have preferred him
happening it back to Ray.
They would prefer him dropping it to the ground.
The awkward toss over the shoulder.
It gives the office sense of just like, what are you what are you doing, Luke?
Did you think that was funny?
What's going on?
Yeah, it's just awkward.
And it's a director's fault because it's very specifically a direction for the actor to take.
Like Luke wouldn't do the stoic sort of.
Don't you think it would be way more effective for him to just slowly have the arms go down
than it slips out of his hand?
And he just starts walking away.
Yeah, because it would seem more in line with somebody who's just tired, you know,
if he if he truly was.
And it just doesn't really I don't know.
Luke never struck me as a type of character to just make these little comedic gestures
of tossing shit over the shoulder.
Yeah, it's it's a bit insulting, really.
When you have someone gives you something, you're like,
Chuck, I came to get you this one thing.
I mean, you know how much I sacrificed.
That's an excellent reference.
And yeah, apparently, Jenna said he's got a video defending Battlefront II.
And he apparently calls people who don't like it mentally ill,
or at least people who criticize it, I guess.
You guys remember why people criticize that, right?
Oh, boy.
Theater laughed at this moment does not mean that it was just played for jokes.
Go watch the scene again and look at it as how there's nothing there.
He grabs it and then he tosses it.
That's it.
He's maintaining this face like I even bothered like fuck this shit.
And then Ray's reaction is the audience's reaction of what?
What?
What do you and it's dramatic?
See that the rays like, huh, doesn't get it.
We didn't get it either is he has every reason to throw that thing?
Who is the stranger showing up on my doorstep?
Basically, with this lightsaber that brings back all the dark memories that ruined me.
It is shocking.
No, that was a different lightsaber, dude.
These memories that ruined me projecting so far.
Covering up all the holes in his mind.
He's like writing like novels worth of what he means.
And then Ryan Johnson's like, yeah, that's exactly.
And this is where you know, this film is going to be interesting.
Genuinely, genuinely, when I first saw this, I just raised one eyebrow.
I was just like, huh, what is what is what is this?
And he's like, oh, that's interesting.
That was it.
I'd be like, sure.
Also, by the way, we are we are successfully surpassing the 2000 watching Mark.
Oh, hey.
I mean, I think we can't remember if we did that before or not.
But yeah, we got twenty two hundred almost.
So we're we're getting out there.
People do people do like it when we talk about Star Wars.
I think that might be tied to it.
Or it could be tied to Doomcock.
It could be tied to the fact that we're five of us.
Who knows?
Who knows?
All film.
Screw the Jedi.
They didn't know shit.
And also, if Luke didn't want to be found, why did he leave a map to where you could find him?
Right, because that didn't happen.
Luke leaving them in.
In fairness, he didn't.
There's never a line that says Luke left the map.
People people will assume that because.
But the thing is, nobody's ever told us where the map came from.
That's.
Yeah, it's it's something to say that basically everybody has assumed that it is.
Well, I'm interested to see if he's going to explain where it came from when he's got nothing.
I want to see if he said the idea of the map is it's a flight plan from where he went and where
he stopped, right?
Like, that's it.
So he made the map like he is his computer.
You're right in the there's like a little dotted line that
implies that must have been somebody's journey or whatever.
But even JJ Abrams says, like, in some interviews somewhere that the map itself,
the big portion is something that R2-D2 got when he plugged in in episode four.
That was just something he just got.
He downloaded it and it's just the map of the galaxy just has it.
And then I guess a part of it was cut out and given to Tecca for some reason.
And this is the thing.
There's just no info on this because nobody wrote it.
Nobody had any fucking clue where this map comes from or how it works.
We as an audience have to just work our asses off to figure out how it could possibly make sense.
Because not even the right like genuinely JJ Abrams has said different things in different
portions of interviews.
He's just like, it's the thing that came through the fact that he said R2-D2 got it when he was
hacking the fucking garbage disposal thing in episode four.
To me, I was just like, you just fucking came up with that on the spot, didn't you?
You have no idea where the hell this map came from.
Why did he leave a map to where you could find him?
Right.
Right.
Right.
Because that didn't happen.
Luke leaving the map in R2 was a theory that I actually did hope was true because
it would have explained why R2 turned on at the last minute of Force Awakens.
But Luke never.
Oh, so that's why it would make sense.
Instead of, oh, it was like, no, no, it's a good theory because it explains why R2 turns on.
It instead of the fact that it completely contradicts the whole Luke on the island thing,
but it explains why R2 turns on.
I'm surprised, yeah, that he wanted it to be that way,
considering how it makes no sense at all if it was that way.
But okay.
Yeah.
Takes credit for that at any point in the film.
If he did and actually wanted to be found, yeah, it would be an entirely different movie.
They should have honestly named this movie Star Wars, the strong female edition.
All men in this film, for the most part, took a backseat to women, to the strong women,
which they shoved down our face time and time and seen and seen again.
Every woman is just a strong, powerful woman.
I'm just like everyone from just, they are, oh my God, f*** this movie.
Man, he should have called it a bridal rage.
To be honest, a case can be made.
A case can be made.
Your heart.
Yeah, the whole third act of the film wasn't completely centered around men.
Finn and Poe did not become the resistance leaders.
Well, I mean, Finn was kind of what people would call the equivalent of cockblocked,
but with attacking a thing by Rose for her to tell him that he was doing it wrong.
And the film kind of supports it in that scene.
Yeah, it's like the audience, basically the entire audience hated it,
but the movie tried to tell us, no, no, no, this is good.
And yeah, I'm having trouble explaining the contradiction because there's so many.
It's like she got the fact that she stops Finn,
which supports that guy's argument, the whole like women, right, men, wrong thing,
which I'm not saying is the theme of the film.
But if we're going to go with that, what does the evidence say about males and females at this?
And you got her telling him that this is the correct way.
She explains the thing.
And then in the background, everyone we love is getting blasted by a giant laser.
So again, that's not even like, does the film support that idea?
It's like, I guess the film's laughing at her at that point.
I don't know.
Then also consider that the female sister died doing the thing
that the female is currently arguing against that saved everyone.
You know what I mean?
I'm just like, I can't even unravel this in terms of a strict message from the film.
So I pass.
I have no idea.
Luke didn't face Kylo to save everyone.
The force kid at the end wasn't a boy.
Those are all women in masks.
What did the boy do?
What did the boy do?
What did the boy do?
He opened the door.
He had a broom.
Did any of the women have a broom?
Answer me that.
Leia and Holdo chastised Poe.
Finn gets electrocuted.
And Poe did the same.
Well Poe saved the day and so did, what's her name?
Sisters.
So I guess you can say that.
The thing is, it's a disconnect between the fact that the movie's trying to tell us something,
but the audience is getting a complete opposite pull from it.
Like Rose, Rose did the right thing by stopping Finn from saving everyone's life.
And Leia and Holdo, they're right to chastise Poe, even though he saved their lives.
You know, it's just, it's clearly trying to tell us something that just isn't true.
Take a backseat during the third act.
Rey was like not even in it.
And who gives a shit if there was a bunch of-
Rey was in the third act?
You just presented that she was in it.
You just showed us that she was in it.
And she saves everyone's lives.
Please don't, please don't.
Just let's just say he was joking, guys.
He was joking.
He was making a joke.
That was that.
Asks.
I mean, not only did women take a backseat during the third act, Rey was like not even in it.
You don't get to say that.
I'm so sorry.
She saves all of their lives, I don't see that.
How is that taking a backseat?
You know what?
I changed my mind.
She did take a backseat.
Remember how much effort she puts into saving everyone's lives by moving rocks that are bigger
than anything Yoda even did?
And she's just like, meh.
She really did take a backseat because that's easy to her.
What would have been hard would have been like, I don't know, crushing a planet with her hand.
That's something that Rey has to break a sweat for.
Oh god, I can see it happening now.
Episode 9, she's like, the first order.
Fucking a starfish!
And who gives a shit if there's a bunch of women in the film?
You get to look at women.
Huh?
I don't know.
What?
Well, I don't know.
I don't have an argument.
Old, crazy Laura Dern in Rose Tico.
Should we just let chat respond to that one?
I feel like we don't even need to do anything with that.
Just feed it to the dogs.
What is the argument?
You get to look at women.
That's almost sexist.
I don't know what kind of male.
Okay, what kind of warm-blooded male would make this statement?
I'm telling you, man.
Rose Tico is just boner fuel.
Purple hair, that's what does it for me.
You know what?
Yeah, purple hair and weird dresses on old chicks, man.
That's my fetish.
He seriously supports somebody saying like,
hey, I'm going to go see the movie.
And it's all like, I don't know, man.
I've heard some bad results.
But dude, I get to look at women.
But dude, there's going to be babes on screen.
Yeah, would he really say like, okay, yeah, that's fair.
That's a great point.
I doubt it.
Did Bowler just refer to us as dogs?
Hey, man.
Rags is a doggo.
It's on offensive.
Yeah.
It's cool, man.
You're with us here.
It's a term of endearment.
But I get to see, if we want to go in this lines of ridiculousness,
we get to see a Chinese woman drive a car into a black man's car and save both their lives.
Wow, even Rags till that was controversial.
Oh, that's funny.
Because Asians can't drive.
Who gives a shit if there's a bunch of women in the film?
You get to look at women.
Why are you complaining?
This film is just riddle.
Because the particular women.
It doesn't matter.
But the content.
Do you remember if you guys seem blade?
Do you remember like this ridiculously fat vampire?
Who's in like the seat that controls all the computers?
She's a woman.
You know, even her, if she was in this film,
Lee would be okay with it just for the fact that you could look at her.
She's a woman, man.
What problem would you have?
There's no such thing as an unattractive or undesirable woman.
It's like I joked about it earlier.
But this guy sounds like such a fucking virgin.
I mean, I just don't know.
You're complaining about there being women when you could look at the women.
It's like he knows that I have an internet connection, right?
Like I can look at as many women as I.
Yeah, but they don't have people here and kamikaze themselves into the first order.
You can't see that anywhere.
I'm so sexy.
No, I'm sure there's out there.
I'm sure they got that.
This film is just riddled with just social justice warrior nonsense.
Oh, boy.
Now I see what's going on here.
I'm just like, it's just like, so just like, oh, I know your type.
You're you're a fly boy.
You need to shut up and listen to what I'm saying.
Okay.
What is this crap?
What is this?
This is a feminist garbage.
Where it's like, I'm a strong, powerful woman.
And I know that you're the patriarchy and you're men and you're evil and blah, blah, blah, blah.
I'm just like, oh my God, kill me now.
Yeah.
And I wonder why she left you.
Nothing.
Oh, at least he had someone to start with.
First off, you didn't appreciate that.
You could look at your woman.
You didn't look at her enough.
Yeah, I know.
This is coming from the same guy who said you could look at women.
He's like, okay.
I mean, this is this is like 1920s argument.
Like, let's go to the races.
There'll be some ladies there.
We can go.
The moving pictures have a color now.
They allow the females.
What's interesting, too, is that in Jonathan McIntosh's video,
he confirms this is something about the movie that's good.
Yeah, he does actually position.
Yeah.
Women in positions of authority, putting men in their place.
And he said, like, it's in favor of trying to promote gender equality.
So according to the people who love this film, or one of them, what that guy just said is
actually being enacted here.
And it's a lesson for men.
So I wonder what Lee's.
He doesn't articulate it as clearly, but he's right.
That she said was anti men.
She scolded him for getting whoops.
Jonathan McIntosh is gonna have to disagree with you.
Yeah.
Jonathan McIntosh disagrees.
He thinks that this is a pro feminism film, which he did.
It's like you're taking on the emotions of pose even more so than he did.
Yeah.
Well, post saved everybody just pointed out.
So if you if you start a battle that you have to fight or else you'll die.
And some of your forces die during that battle.
That means you're terrible, even though you won that battle and save the entirety of your forces.
And not to mention he destroyed the super death star, which saved basically the galaxy.
There's no there's no underselling how important killing that thing is.
But who cares?
He's just a fly boy.
He's just a hot head.
She's so underrated in this film.
No, no, just no.
No, he hasn't given us fucking arguments.
We don't have to give characters.
And also, why not just tell Poe the plan?
Right.
I know.
I didn't really tell you how many people died, but you know, many people died because they just
felt that he didn't need to know a lot.
It's so true.
I'm waiting for the counterpoint.
People die.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And people didn't die when he was in charge.
That wasn't just saying everybody's life.
Hey, guys, rewatch the scene.
He does not tell them all to go on with the job.
They have all got connections to the general.
They all decide to go themselves.
Poe didn't say, hey, everybody ignore the general and do as I say.
Yeah.
So what would he do?
Like, he's already on the way.
Yeah, they were doing their words.
We're already on the way there.
What's he gonna do?
Hey, everyone form up on me and you're really, really slow ships.
So that I can do everything myself.
Yeah, they all die either way.
There's just nothing.
So it's just stupid.
If you notice, none of the bombers make it out
because fucking hell, they move it like one mile per hour.
They're just crappy ships.
Did you forget that part?
She won't tell flyboy what her plan is.
Why?
I don't know.
Maybe because he got demoted.
So what?
What about everyone else?
He went from fleet commander to captain.
I believe that's the demotion.
So you don't tell captain's plans.
That's not a thing you do.
Not to mention, a lot of people mutiny with him.
And one of them is the actress that is the real life daughter of Carrie Fisher.
I think her name is Billy Lord.
And she's in the scenes with Holdo when people are getting murdered.
And she's looking at her like, what the fuck are you doing?
Point being, even the people on her bridge
weren't allowed to know the plan, apparently.
So who is allowed to know the plan outside of Holdo?
Like, out of curiosity.
Apparently no one.
It's like, oh, Leia did.
It's like, hmm.
Okay.
He got people killed.
He also saved everyone's lives, but I guess that fights the narrative.
So we'll have to ignore that part.
No, if anyone dies in the process of saving anybody, he's a terrible person.
That's how it works.
Being aggressive as shit.
Being aggressive as shit after he's just announced
that everybody is going to be murdered and he can't stop it.
What a terrible person.
It's almost like he's human.
What a horrible guy.
Damn dude, calm down.
It's almost like he gives a shit.
Why are you so angry when you could just look at the women?
Just look at all the women.
Why is a strong male character getting shoved in the corner?
Doesn't make any sense.
It doesn't.
Get your ego.
Yeah, no, no.
Oh, ego?
Uh-oh.
He's got it.
Did I just hear him mention ego?
Yeah.
Doesn't make any sense.
Get your ego out of the picture for two seconds and pay attention to the plot.
How does it make sense?
Tell us how it makes sense.
If you pay attention to the plot, it all falls apart.
What do you mean?
Please.
Yeah, the more you think about it, the more nonsensical it is.
We're asking a question about the plot.
We are exactly paying attention to the plot.
Not to mention why.
The thing is amazing that so many people came away from the film saying the very words,
why didn't you tell Poe the plan?
So many people said that.
Like it's almost a phenomenon.
It's not like some parroted point.
It's like everyone separately made their videos and everybody had to mention the fact
that she didn't tell it.
It's so bad that like so many people picked up on it immediately.
It's not some kind of like, well, he was demoted.
So it makes just like, no, no, no.
Stop it.
It doesn't make sense.
It's stupid.
And it just makes-
Not defending shit.
It's like, well, you should have thought about it.
It's like, no, no, no.
Stop it.
Sit down.
By the way, I'm not getting any mic chop or anything, am I?
No, you sound good to me.
You're good.
Yeah, you're good.
I'm rendering a video so it doesn't look like my little blue ring shows up.
And I think like maybe my mic was-
It's a green ring.
Okay.
Jesus.
I'm sorry.
I feel like the people who mix up the milk colors, dude.
I know.
Can't have that.
One kills your liver.
And I think Luke dragged that one.
Something over his head and be like, yo, I'm a strong, powerful woman.
I know what I'm doing.
What is your beef with strong, powerful women?
Did you get spanked by your feet?
Pretty sure he's saying it's forced as opposed to-
Yeah.
But, you know, that's just me.
Email principal when you were a kid.
I don't understand this.
If you had just told him what your plan was, he wouldn't have structured a mutiny.
Who cares if he structured a mutiny?
It didn't do anything-
They didn't?
They would-
Oh my God.
Where do I begin with that?
Oh my God.
Who cares if he had a mutiny?
It didn't go anywhere.
What?
Who cares if you get cancer?
It happened to go into remission.
What do you-
Any suggestions of how we begin this?
What the hell?
Who cares if you got into a car crash?
You have insurance, right?
Oh my God.
This is fucking doofus.
Who cares about canto bite?
They didn't do anything.
I was so certain that he was going to start like, you know,
making some sense out of some of these little short points that he made,
but he just keeps making tons of short points.
It's good.
Who cares?
Shut up.
Who cares if there's a mutiny?
It didn't succeed.
Who cares if there's a mutiny?
They didn't completely ruin the whole-
It's like, what if they did?
What if-
That's the thing.
This is all predicated on the idea that it just happened to end up a certain way.
What if the-
All they would have had to do is fiddle with controls.
They could have shot somebody.
They could have-
Who knows what they-
Who knows what a group of angry mutineers who are potentially,
in their minds, they're fighting for their lives just to survive.
It's an act of desperation is what mutinies often are.
They'll do anything.
Who knows what they could have done?
It is luck, if anything else.
I can't believe-
It hit my brain.
I've got a bit of a headache.
It really did.
He wrote that out and then he recorded it
and then he edited it and it didn't-
It made it past all those phases.
I'm impressed.
He got stunned and went into nap time immediately after doing it.
I'm not finished.
But what if-
That's the thing.
Leia just walks into a room full of angry mutineers desperate to save their lives?
That's kind of ballsy.
I said in my series, but I stand by it.
When she walks in and shoots him and he falls over,
I don't think that, genuinely, I don't think there was a person on planet earth
at that point who knew what was happening in the story.
Everyone in the cinema, if you'd asked them at that very point,
if you paused the film and said, what's going on now?
They'd be like, uh, Holdo might be evil.
Leia is in league with her.
Nothing makes any sense anymore.
There was no reason for her to shoot Poe whatsoever.
She just walked through and talked him down and he'd be like,
okay, yeah, you're in charge.
That'd be it.
It's bizarre.
And the most common answers for people who like the film be like,
oh, it's going to make sense in a second.
You just let the film go on.
You say, yeah, it's going to make sense.
Just a sec.
I think Poe might be the mole.
That might be it.
I love the amount of people who said it was a mole.
Like, that's the storyline.
There's just no mention of that whatsoever in the film.
Like, it made sense.
She thought it was a mole.
Like, when?
When was that a thing?
I'm not finished.
You remember in return?
Oh my goodness.
I'm not finished.
Remember in return of the Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
Dude, please calm down and focus.
No, carry on.
He's on the road.
He's looking for it.
He's not holding the camera.
I love it.
Let the passion flow through you.
Let the hate flow.
On the road.
You're making me really nervous.
They've just fucking copied everything.
Every fucking plot from return of the Jedi.
Let's just copy and paste it.
The millennials are so-
Ready?
They're just fucking copying and pasting.
Can I subscribe to this guy?
Yeah.
Goodbye.
Oh, fuck.
Oh, fuck.
Wow.
I love this guy.
I can't do it with so many issues.
The best part of this video are the other people in this video.
Oh god, yeah.
I love these caveats.
I want more of them.
You think this film was too similar to return of the Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
In return of the fucking Jedi?
The millennials?
When Yoda on, um, uh, what's the planet, um, Dagobah,
it goes to the Dagobah system.
Luke, to see Yoda.
Yoda's a recluse, a fucking recluse on Dagobah.
Well, Luke is a recluse on a fucking rock.
Guess what?
Ray goes to him for fucking training.
Hang on a second.
Yeah, hang on a second.
You know you just referred to this as return of the Jedi?
Well, he said Luke visits Yoda.
He does that in episode six as well.
So he might have been referring to either one.
Like three times in a row?
I mean, if that doesn't throw your whole argument out the car window,
I don't know what it was.
I mean, it doesn't even matter if he was making a good argument.
He's so much more entertaining than you.
Like, just, I want to hear about the motherfucking millennials.
They tried to copy something and they failed at it.
The reason a lot of the pundits said Star Wars was good,
the reviewers said Star Wars was good,
is because they all have just left puberty.
It's the women, really.
They brought up on games like Call of Duty.
They like Call of Duty therefore.
Yes, yes.
That's a strange reasoning.
No, I think I know what you're saying.
I think I know the prevalence of stuff.
Call of Duty is very, very, it's very surface level visceral.
So as a result, if she's trying to say,
I think this is what he's trying to say,
that if that's what the big thing is, Call of Duty, for instance,
then this would appeal.
This is the Star Wars movie that would appeal to a Call of Duty player
because there's nothing really beneath it.
I know.
It's all empty.
It's just things happen, stuff, scenes, fight.
Yeah, a lot of what he considered heart was just a whole lot of spectacle.
Yeah, he was like, this is Star Wars because explosions.
What are you two talking about right now?
So you think people who liked the movie and went about their day
are the immature people, but people who are screaming.
And you calling everyone who liked it insane, disliked it insane.
So are you any better, dude?
Something like a freaking child in the car
with his wife on the way home from the movies.
Can children drive?
Oh, man.
Can children get married?
Getting mad about Star Wars.
Yeah, those are the mature people, right?
How are you not doing the same thing right now?
You're mad at the people who are mad.
Self-aware does.
God damn it.
Of course.
Fucking millennials.
Sure you did.
This film, I mean, I can put my hand on my heart
and say I definitely enjoy the fad to bed.
It's more than I enjoyed the last Jedi.
I need to actually head out, but I will agree that I do.
I would happily watch the prequels before I watch the last Jedi.
It's been fun, Rax.
You it has been fun.
Yeah, I'll be back later on.
So you guys have a you guys have a grand old time
going over the rest of this dumpster fire.
That is the plan.
Oh, boy, we're not even half done.
In fairness, we've sped up a bit because he's been having,
you know, good guests.
Yeah, and they're worth listening to for a good while.
I got nothing.
I got nothing to say against him.
So keep going.
Yeah.
Have a good one, Mr.
Rags.
Thanks for popping in.
No, I got you.
I got you.
I'll I'll I'll catch you later.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
See you.
Okay.
I think he left when he heard me say one thing
that he was like, Oh, shit, came back.
He's like, Yep, totally hit everything.
Goodbye, Rags.
But yes, let's carry on.
Because of the original story.
Wait a minute.
I thought the problem with the last Jedi was that it was too.
Wait, hang on.
I didn't hear what the guy said.
Oh, fuck no.
Twenty two thirty.
That should be enough.
Child in the car with his wife on the way home from the movies.
Getting mad about Star Wars.
Yeah.
Those are the mature people.
Right.
Of course.
Actually, enjoy this more than I enjoyed this one.
Sure, you did.
This film really makes me appreciate the prequels because of their original story.
Wait a minute.
I thought the problem with the last Jedi was that it was too different.
Now you're praising the prequels because they were different.
If we talk, it depends on who he's responding to.
But the guy he just responded to was the one who said that they like
gone against everything Luke was as a character.
So yes, they did something new, but it was terrible while he's saying
that it was a good original idea from Phantom Menace.
I'm assuming.
I don't know.
It could be based on premise, not necessarily execution.
That's how I feel about the prequel story.
I think it's a good story.
It's just flippity floppity and how they actually pull it off.
There was consistency in some places and not a lot on the others,
but at least there was some.
Rather see Phantom Menace with Jar Jar Binks.
Phantom Menace?
Oh, come on, dude.
Really?
We're doing that.
He spelled it wrong.
Keep a lookout for any word he pronounced wrong, guys.
That's what counts for arguments now.
Is that a word?
There's something about this boy.
I'm just going to rant about what utter trash Star Wars The Last Jedi was.
After you leave the theater, you are genuinely disappointed
with what you just spent your time and money on.
Not only is this guy wrong,
but he's being such a blatant douche about it.
I don't like his opinion.
That's the perfect summary of this guy's video.
Not only is he wrong, but he's being a douche about it.
He's being insane.
You're being mean.
Stop it.
Look at where we...
Destroyed what we thought we valued in the Star Wars.
Oh, shit.
You know what?
I need to make a note of that one for my April Fool's Day.
I don't know how to put this.
At least we got to look at women or you should just look at women.
People complain about the women, but we get to look at women.
That should make it into the April Fool's.
Yeah.
That was the whole point.
What do you think?
They just did that by accident?
Like, oh, damn.
We accidentally killed the Jedi Order.
Oh, whoops.
No, they didn't.
He says I am not the last Jedi because Rey is a Jedi,
and Rey's got the books implying she's going to teach more Jedis.
Might want to rewatch the film there, Lee.
Sorry about that one.
Just leave it in.
You hope beyond all hopes that Disney is going to come out and say,
just kidding.
We didn't know what we were doing and we wanted to troll you.
Here's what I want to know.
What do these people think of The Force Awakens?
Because after what he just said, he's got to hate that movie just as much or more.
Episode 7 gave us hope that another trilogy wouldn't be ruined.
Oh, please.
What Episode 8 actually ended up doing, though, was just s*** on everything.
On the walls, on the ceiling, under the toilet seat, in the lobby.
It s*** everywhere.
I mean, I can't say he's wrong on that.
That's a very well-reasoned argument.
What's he going to do with this?
What's he going to do?
Just go, no, that's wrong.
I don't know why the clip selection in between him saying there's s*** on the walls and
everything is funny to me.
It's like, stand that guy.
Watch up that guy up.
S*** on the walls.
It's so bad.
Scootos to the clip selection.
That being said, I would encourage you to not go and see this movie because it is utter garbage.
Other than that, I'm just angry.
I'm disappointed.
I think that this movie is...
Dude, you need to smoke some weed or stop smoking weed.
It's one or the other.
Do you not realize you've done the same thing as him in reverse?
He's saying it's bad, it's worse, it's terrible, and you're just going, oh, it's good, it's
great, it's perfect, but you know the stupid one.
Stop being ugly.
Smoke some weed.
You need a lot of more women, god damn it.
My parents told me, if you get angry and you want to make a video about something,
sleep on it first and then make a video about it.
That's cute.
You got your parents' approval to make your little video.
It's a fair piece of advice.
If you're a YouTuber and you actually hot takes can kill channels, it's a thing.
It is a wise idea to think on what you've actually come to conclude.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Again, Jesus, so much aggression.
Again, as we had stated in the beginning, you don't insult the people that you're
trying to convince right off the bat.
Yeah, that's why this video's not going to help.
He just keeps doing it.
But there's people who not only really approve of this video,
but actively consider it to be the definitive, this is the Last Jedi's quality video.
Like, why?
Your basement.
How nice.
I'm very proud of you.
There's some jokes that really fell flat, especially at the movie theater I was
watching.
And you're right, there are too many odd jokes.
The comedy in this film was insanely underrated.
As you can tell, it's much better than what I say.
It must be amazing.
Thank you for your opinion.
Have you guys seen Comedy Killed the Last Jedi?
I think it's called the video.
How Comedy Killed?
It's called From the Closer Look.
I quite enjoyed it.
His theory is that the comedy is the biggest problem with the film.
For me, I would easily pick Luke, but there's a lot of stuff.
But his video is pretty good.
I would recommend it.
It's a quick explanation for why the comedy in The Last Jedi is utter garbage.
But I don't think we need convincing.
It's pretty clear.
It's tonally just awkward as fuck in so many scenes.
Because a lot of people say it's the Marvel attitude.
I really feel like Marvel have a better handle on when to place comedy than
Rian Johnson does, personally.
But the idea that he was inspired by Marvel to do it, I could believe.
Because I don't remember Looper having loads of comedy.
No.
Yeah, not really.
No.
But yeah, it's totally underrated, sure.
It's not like Snoke was cracking jokes to Kylo, right?
Yes, because one character wasn't cracking jokes to another specific character.
That means that the comedy wasn't bad.
Excellent counterpoint.
Jesus Christ.
It's the same shit as someone who's like,
nobody dies.
No, everyone dies in return to The Jedi.
And then you just go, well, there are clouds in one of the scenes.
So you're wrong.
First of all, it was a reference to Force Awakens that probably nobody got.
I'm confused.
Who made a point against this?
Who's arguing?
Who are you responding to?
I think he's trying to say that it's a complex joke.
Oh, a callback joke.
That's not one of the jokes I would have cited as bad.
I actually like the scene with those two because, you know,
they're actually able to fucking talk to each other, which is nice.
Plus, I mean, like, would you really even consider that to be like,
oh, laugh out loud is just kind of like a little, you know, you could smile at that.
It's an endearing smite.
It's charming.
Yeah.
It's all like you don't go.
Slap your knee.
Yeah.
Yeah, levity is not necessarily comedy.
Yeah, something to lighten the mood, not to make people giggle.
But like, he couldn't have one clip of someone saying that this was the joke that ruined it
for him because this is the thing I've not heard anyone say that Leia saying she changed her hair
was a was the joke that killed the tension or the tone in that scene.
I don't think I even say that in my videos because, yeah, it was fine with me.
Change your hair.
And second, this moment was not supposed to be a knee slapper.
She's so happy.
Who said it was?
I don't know.
What's his point, then?
Yeah, it's like wasn't he just trying to say that the comedy here is great and underrated?
So it's like, wait, so you just gave us an example of one that's just okay.
I bet.
Maybe it.
Fuck it.
I don't know that she can't help.
Where are the knee slappers?
It's cute.
But that's right.
You guys have no heart.
What?
What?
Christ, who are you talking to?
No.
Who is this applied to?
That was the best example he could come up with.
I mean, it was a fine scene, but come on.
An actual visualization for me is him.
We're just waiting in a room for him to come and sit down with us and argue.
And then we realize he's in the other room and he's just batting the shit out of this
straw batter.
We're like, what are you doing?
And he's like, fuck you.
You're wrong.
Hey, man.
We're coming here and tell us why.
No, fuck you.
You kidding me?
Shut up.
He just holds up the pieces of straw.
You're already defeated.
Thump thump.
Thump thump.
They did the princess Leia.
Her flying through space.
Oh, god.
He's not going to defend this scene, is he?
Please.
Please, no.
Bull.
Settle in.
So Ren is about to gun her down.
You mean Ren, but all right.
And the Stormtroopers, they do it for him.
They blow away Leia.
I start seeing her body flying and doing cartwheels in space.
I'm like, oh, they are disrespecting this woman.
The woman has passed.
Let her character die in peace.
Oh, sure.
Like you care about women all the time.
Oh, my god.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Hold on a minute.
So I don't know who this guy is exactly.
I've never seen his channel.
Is he just insulting him over like a past relationship at this point?
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know how personal this is.
I don't know who this guy is.
So it's like all these weird jabs about women to this guy.
It's like, did he abuse someone?
I don't understand.
It's a great counter argument, though.
You know, when you say it's disrespectful to Leia and to Carrie Fisher to just have
her flipping around outside in space until she Mary Poppins her way back in.
For you to then respond with, you hate women.
Yeah, I was like, I don't think he's making any point against her being a woman in space,
just a character that everybody loves in space in a weird new year.
I hate women.
Which is very strange because he was just talking about how women are doesn't like,
you know, the feminist views and whatnot.
Now he's saying, Oh, I really like this woman.
And he's now he's like bashing over.
It's like, what?
Yeah.
Wouldn't you say that this is a piece of progress if you thought he was an awful woman hates it?
Like, Jesus.
Oh, she goes, she goes, opens her eyes and goes.
Yes, it's that bad.
Who wrote this?
Who thought that that was a good idea to have Leia going straight?
Superman returns.
You know, she wasn't flying, right?
She was.
Oh, please, please.
Actually, actually.
Stop you right there.
Jesus.
Yes, he knows he's probably a way that she didn't actually fly like Superman.
You know, she's not flying.
She's just throwing herself at the ground and missing.
You know, it's not it's not that she's breathing oxygen.
It's a collection of particles.
Actually, it's very complicated.
You know, that's not air right.
It's mostly everything else.
Pulling herself towards the ship.
Is that really so terrible?
And you want to talk.
You're showing this.
You're showing this.
Jesus.
It is not it's not push.
It's a he's she's pulling herself toward the shot.
Force pulls self.
I'm a poppins.
Yeah, that's that's why people find that he's just deliberately avoiding
the actual real thing here, which is just just look at it, man.
Just look at it.
It's ridiculous.
It's like, wow, she's doing the first poll.
It is.
It is a woman show.
We did get to see her for a very large portion of the moment.
Talk about being disrespectful.
You're the one cracking up over it because I don't know.
You thought she was flying.
Oh, this is crazy.
This is how you know he's not got arguments.
He's like, you said a word wrong.
You hate women.
You spit when you say a thing on accident.
I've got your number now.
You sure are acting unorthodox.
Chewy.
And I don't know why Ryan Johnson hates Chewbacca so much,
but the only thing he made him do was almost eat a porg.
That's all he did.
And again, it was just played out for jokes.
Did you see this scene?
Oh, yes.
Chewy is an Uber driver.
I forgot about that.
That really added to his position in the film,
where he's just sitting in the cockpit and doing nothing.
Because you could be like, what does he do in the other films?
It's like, I mean, where'd you want to start?
It's like, if you remember the Death Star sequence in episode four,
it's like he's integral with Han and then like repairing C-3PO.
Do you remember when they reconnect in episode six, him and Han?
It's actually like a really nice moment.
And it's just like Chewy was a character.
And now he's just he's the Millennium Falcon driver.
And you're like, oh, and you I actually think that it's because of the fact
that Han is dead, that it's very difficult to have a purpose for Chewy
and that we should have had them go out together in some way, possibly.
You know, it's complicated.
But the fact is like Chewy does shit all in this film.
And you know what, I'm gonna say it.
I don't know how you guys gonna feel about this,
but I think they did a good job with Chewy and Solo.
Yes, I agree.
Because that was pretty much Chewy's movie.
I mean, all the things that we thought about Chewy's character
or things we didn't know, and there obviously wasn't that much.
Making his own choices and doing a lot of throwing shit around
and beating the crap out of people.
Like, yeah, much better.
He was like the R2-D2 of that movie because R2-D2 was his own mission, whatever.
We couldn't understand a word he said, but you know.
And just like, you know, to compare it to this, where he's just nothing.
Chewy could have been anybody else.
It doesn't fucking matter.
He's just a walk-in carpet who sits in a chair and makes jokes with porgs.
Chewbacca flying the Falcon to the rescue on Crete?
Did you go to the bathroom during this part?
Like, I've seen the official Star Wars pages defending Rose,
defending Canto Bight, defending that god-awful plot, that god-awful character.
Yeah, that really god-awful plot,
where they subtly influence the little Jedi slave kid to be the new Resistance.
And that god-awful Rose, who is the one to give the kid the frickin-
Well, he's already made this argument.
We've already counted it, so yeah.
Frank.
Yeah, she was lame.
Also, the Rose girl?
Terrible character did nothing.
Yeah, she did nothing.
Didn't get Finn back on track by calling him a self-estrator.
Get him back on track by abusing and abducting him?
Like, oh, I see.
I see what he's doing now.
Yeah, he's, um, so she insulted him and it worked.
So he thinks he's gonna work here on this video.
So that's his approach.
He's using a Rose strat.
Ah.
And next he's gonna come into people's houses and electrocute them, just to be like-
You'll like it, god damn it!
Didn't teach him how to have good intentions.
Didn't help him fight Phasma.
She taught him how to have good intentions?
What?
Thought he already had good intentions.
He, like, he bailed on the Stormtroopers because he had good intentions.
He was leaving to save Rey's life.
What do you mean, taught him to have good in-
What is this garbage?
Like, what are you-
Didn't save his life.
Yeah, by smashing into him.
That saved his life.
Saved his life, killed everyone else.
Oh my god.
With everything we knew at that point, right?
She smashes into him.
Both ships just collapse into each other.
Both of them are dead.
Then the laser destroys the wall and slams into, like, the majority of the resistance anyway.
They couldn't get out in time.
They all die, film over.
And it's like, thanks, Rose.
Great job, Rose.
But no, because the film just stuff happens for no reason, everything works out.
They magically survived until the finch just dragged her body all the way back.
And they're still alive for some reason.
That shit's hilarious to be dragged here all the way across.
Yeah, she's not particularly big enough to make that happen very well.
You must have, like, fashioned a thruster from their ships onto, like, a little sled.
And no one shot them down the entire time.
Like, this three kilometer...
The theory is, the people in the 1880s were just laughing their asses off so much.
What just happened?
They couldn't shoot.
And they looked away too long and, like, oh, shit, wait.
Oh, fuck.
We should have done.
I think Fourty's gone already.
Damn it.
That was cool.
One of the things that I hope that we would have learned from this,
even just one of the things, like, get rid of characters, kill people off that spine.
But at least give us some sort of payoff to who had the lightsaber throughout the years.
That is the epitome of blaming Ryan for JJ's writing.
You're saying it like Ryan had no choice but to not answer that question.
He has to solve the problems that are set up,
or whatever set up is in the previous film.
That's how these movies work.
That's how stories work.
And if you want to, if you're like, there's no solution.
It's impossible.
It's like, go check fan theories.
You'll find a whole bunch of solutions.
There's lots of people who will figure it out for you.
If you really can't write it because you just don't have that level of creativity or imagination,
fine.
You can go find the answers.
It's not hard.
Ryan didn't give a shit about where the lightsaber came from.
He just wanted to move on.
And you can blame JJ for forcing him to answer that question like he's just done there.
But it's like, that's still a conscious decision from Ryan to not do it.
Why can't you interweave it?
Why can't you make something of that?
Why can't you use it?
The main principle being subversion is not the brush you want to paint everything with.
It's something you want to use subtly.
And just to eliminate setups from a previous chapter is,
I don't know why you would even bother making a movie or making a second chapter in that process.
You may as well be writing your own thing.
You can throw it over his shoulder, but at least tell us what happened to the lights
like nothing was answered.
We were at least going to get some sort of story.
Who cares about how the saber got to Moscow?
Oh, that is.
I think we did this before in a different effect, but dare I say it just only answer honestly.
Did you care how the lightsaber that fell from Luke's hand in Bespin ended up with this
orange frog in the middle of nowhere?
Did did you did anyone care?
Personally, right?
This is just me as anecdotal.
I I cared.
I was like, how did that lightsaber get there?
That's that's that's weird to me because it's quite an important piece of technology.
That thing means a lot.
It's pretty important that it got to where it is.
So how did how did that happen?
But in terms of the plot, not really.
Yeah, in terms of just as an artifact, I'm like, yeah, how the hell did it get there?
Ultimately speaking, it is used to save Ray and Finn from Kylo and it is used to defeat Snoke.
This this item.
So to say that it doesn't affect the plot because it's just there from the beginning,
I'd be like, well, how did it get there?
Because it being there allows all this other stuff to happen, right?
So we never get that piece of the puzzle because let's be fair,
it falls into what we could assume was nothing in Bespin.
Like no one's getting that back.
But I guess someone did.
Did you know that an original take for the beginning of The Force Awakens was the lightsaber
just traveling through space like it was going to be spinning and moving through space and
it was just going to be found by somebody like the the idea was that it would have fallen in
Bespin and somehow ended up in space and then it bumped into someone and then it led.
If you remember the original trailer layer is handing
no, Maz Kanata is handing the lightsaber to layer.
And I guess it's implied that Maz Kanata bumped into it from space somehow.
And then she was like, oh, this is totally Luke's lightsaber.
I'll give it to the and see this is the thing you could be like, God, that's so disappointing.
Why would you want the answer?
It's like, well, I would want a better answer than that.
Jesus Christ.
I don't know why it would have moved off Bespin, wouldn't it?
Can you just argue it was collected by some kind of debris thing
and then it was like identified by a scanner?
You could have that be the I don't know.
Fact is that the lightsaber is very important and you can find reasons for it to have existed.
But fuck it.
Let's let's leave it for episode nine.
What are the odds of it being explained in episode nine, guys?
What you reckon?
Oh, yeah, it's zero.
It's it's nobody it's subversive are in the past.
It's beyond irrelevant.
Like, do people even want any real drama that's real drama?
What is that?
What does that even mean?
Real drama.
But no, no, no.
Only in the moment.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Or do they just want characters sitting around reminiscing on backstory?
Yeah.
Well, that's what happens when you skip all of the drama.
You skip over the 30 years.
One of those?
Just one scene of that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would be okay with that.
If two characters went, hey, do you remember when that explains?
You know what really helps drama is when you stay in someone and you identify with someone.
So maybe a bit of backstory might help.
It's like you see two amazing like samurai and whatever warriors sitting at a game playing chess
and just like covered in battle wounds.
And we get told like they've just had a thousand year war and you're like,
oh, wow, that sounds interesting.
You just see the chess game play out and then the film ends and you're like,
oh, I mean, what was the, what was the water?
And he's like, why do you want scenes of them sitting around talking about?
I wouldn't mind to be okay with that.
Personally.
Yeah.
I mean, like, again, it would be great if Leah went over to the island to convince Luke.
I mean, she totally would have swayed him and they could do a little bit of reminiscing to,
you know, kind of grease the wheels a little bit.
It doesn't have to take that long.
Yeah.
Just fine.
You have layer trying to like layers, like let's leave immediately and Luke doesn't.
And then they have to break it down.
And she's like, you're, you're not, it's not your fault.
Just stuff, anything.
This isn't you, but it's not your fault.
You know, why didn't you, why aren't you, you know, adhering to your ideals before and all that?
It's not the most entertaining thing in the world, you know.
And so all this stuff that JJ Abrams did set up and think about what you want about
The Force Awakens.
That's fine.
But stuff was set up and a lot of it was kind of cool.
They had laid the groundwork for some really cool characters and some really cool theories.
And again, this was just Ryan Johnson taking all of that
and just burning it.
Right.
No, JJ created characters that were good.
Fans came up.
No.
Just all three of us like, can't chew on that, mate.
That's not going down easy.
With horrible theories about them, Ryan actually...
No.
Just, just absolutely no.
The movie Bob level takes here.
Characters in a fresh and natural way and made them...
Fresh and natural way.
He has to keep using such emotive language.
He went to Patrick level.
He's now Patrick.
Just can't, you can't use...
You're watching movies wrong.
I mean, that's...
You can't, you can't use words to mean things.
He has to go with ones that are completely nebulous.
It's like, it's a natural niceness.
It's a, it's a cosmic emotionalizational.
And you're like...
What is this hatred of fans like, speculating while the next movie is in development?
It's so weird.
It's like, isn't that just kind of what people do when they love something?
He did.
He's shown that he's speculated, but he was right.
So that means that it's okay.
But also it's good that it's not predictable.
So he's not the insufferable fan he's talking about?
It's the most confusing shit ever.
He said it shouldn't be predictable, but he predicted it.
Fan theories suck, but he had his own.
It's like, okay.
He had his own and he's glad he was right.
Wham it.
And some really cool theories.
And again, this was just Ryan Johnson taking all of that and just burning it.
Right.
No, JJ created characters that were good.
No.
Fans came up with horrible theories about them.
No.
Ryan actually developed the characters in a fresh and natural way and made them better.
And you don't get film.
You don't get film.
Jesus Christ.
Is this what it means to get film?
Is this a video of what it means to get film?
Been upset had I not had the expectation.
Like this isn't me in my own head.
This isn't me in my own head.
Isn't everything you say just you and your own head?
Oh fuck actually.
Actually, everything you're saying is from your whole head.
Just just oh, he's just lying.
Just pulling yourself.
So I'll clarify.
Lee didn't understand.
He took it literally.
Let's we'll we'll unwind it for Lee.
So what he's saying is he didn't just generate that he wanted Snoke to be Palpatine's master
or whatever.
You know, he he he got the expectations thanks to TFA.
He watched The Force Awakens and he went, oh, I'm supposed to expect something here.
And then he didn't get anything.
It wasn't something that he invented.
It was something that was provided by the film.
That's what he's saying.
I know it's fun to take them literally and then say stuff like, hey, man,
everything you do comes from you.
So, ha, counter argued.
Like, hmm, you got him.
Nice one.
This is substance, by the way, guys.
I don't know if you didn't know.
But spoken out loud.
He trains her, right?
We get this little this little montage.
Wow, man.
You went and got the South Park montage song and everything.
And that scene wasn't even a montage.
She was practicing with the stick.
Yeah, it's a montage.
I mean, let's do it to him.
Let's be literal.
So montage just means you connect a bunch of clips together that have time skips in between them.
So it cuts to Ray.
You can see it right now.
It's not one continuous cut of her grabbing the lightsaber,
turning it on, swinging it over and over again, and then cutting the thing
and then realizing Luke was watching it.
There's several cuts that speed through time.
It was a montage.
That was that was Team America that was in South Park.
No, it was.
Yeah, it was.
It was actually.
You're right.
You're right.
Smut boy just out pedantic tip.
Montage.
No, I think it was South Park.
No, it's Team America.
It's sound.
It's it's I know it sounds like South Park because of the voices,
but it's the scene where he's training before he goes to attack all the celebrities.
Yeah, but isn't Stan learning to ski to that song?
Well, someone just said it's actually both.
So which one came first out of interest?
I would have to imagine Team America.
I would have thought it would be Team America.
Yeah, so so it was both.
I thought so.
I wasn't too crazy.
That's interesting, but it is the creators of South Park.
So if you're going to go with one, I suppose you can say South Park.
We'll let him go for that one.
We won't actually him on that one.
Yeah, she put it down, switched it for the saber.
Luke showed up and watched her.
She gets nervous when she sees him and cuts the rock down.
That's called a scene.
Meanwhile, there's probably it's still the concept of montage.
We're going to get that pedantic about it, dude.
This is the thing.
It's like if you're going to if you're going to be a pedant to people,
then you should expect it in reverse.
And you just chastised him for saying that his thoughts were not something that came
straight from him.
Like it's just like if you want to do that, we can do it back to you.
People who are mad that there wasn't some type of rocky training sequence.
You want to see a montage?
Here's a montage.
Fuck this movie.
Fuck this movie.
Fuck this movie.
Fuck this movie.
Fuck this movie.
Yeah, no, this isn't a montage because this is all the same scene.
This is one scene.
This guy is talking about the film.
So not a montage.
This movie.
Fuck this movie.
Dude, is it getting dark?
Wait.
Oh, never mind.
I think that's an editing.
Never mind.
I thought it was actually getting dark outside.
It might have been.
Who knows?
Talking about that stupid planet that they went to.
The casino planet where we learned about where we learned about capitalism and veganism.
Do you want me to stay here?
I can leave.
Veganism.
There was veganism?
Our wars?
You want to talk about that part?
They freed the animals that were being tortured and abused.
That's so stupid.
Yeah, it is stupid because there's no way for them to go.
And they've likely grown up in it so that they need it at this point.
You didn't save the kids.
And all the damage you dealt in getting them out of there is going to be fucking fixed by the kids.
So good job.
And they're going to get them all back because they just escaped.
Since they're the richest.
And all of their toys are insured.
Yeah, they're all insured because they're the richest people on the planet.
It's just dumb.
The whole thing is stupid.
It doesn't make any sense.
Veganism.
They then are looking for the key maker.
This isn't Matrix Relip.
It may as well be a key maker.
Yeah, he did use the key to unlock the cell.
Yeah, if you remember when they're doing the thing,
the ship, he has a full set of weird key-like things.
There are a bunch of metal pieces.
So we know what he's talking about.
That might not be officially what he's called, but you know what he means.
Yeah, I was going to say, did he get a name in the film?
Everyone calls him DJ, but I don't think he gets that in the film.
Pretty sure they're just like, oh, he's guy.
Guy will help us.
Code breaker, key maker.
It's all a fucking save.
Breaker.
On this planet, the planet is filled with rich people.
Rich people are evil is the whole, the whole underlying subtext.
It's evil and they should be giving their money to less fortunate people.
I understand.
Socialism sucks people.
I just want to let you know.
Well, that would be capitalism sucks.
Socialism would be the one where the rich people have to give their money to the poor people, right?
I think he's just being honest.
Perfectly crystal clear for you.
Socialism is for retards.
Whoa.
He was responding to the people as a capital.
Oh, okay.
Whoa, let's take it back a sec.
Nobody wants to take your money, except maybe Disney.
And then it goes on to talk about the rich are evil.
And I'm like, why?
Why would you put this in a Star Wars film?
This isn't Star Wars.
Oh, it's not because wars don't have people profiting from them and a star.
Yeah, my issue isn't that it's in there.
My issue is just how badly put across it is and how simplistic it is.
It's like, you profit off more, you're bad.
It is shoehorned right in there for the sake of having DJ as a character
so that he can do a thing and give Finn the opportunity to think differently,
but he doesn't actually think differently.
Is it bad to profit off war?
That's a very complicated question that you could have a whole movie about.
Sure.
Just to throw it casually in one scene where Rose says,
these people bad because they did stuff to buy planet and just evil.
It's like, oh, okay.
And now we don't need to think about that again.
We're moving on.
It's like, oh, pretty much it's gone.
War shouldn't have aliens profiting from them.
It's called something new.
What do you want?
Just the same boring story.
Oh my God.
Pick any sub theme and then just use that.
It's new.
There's a web.
There's web on your guys.
For a kind of just ships shooting at each other with no backstory
into the different things that are going on behind the curtain
of this interplanetary.
They buy weapons.
Whoop.
It doesn't even make sense because again, we, we compliment,
commented on the fact that like this whole system has been running
despite the fact this wall has not been running.
So it's like, we have even getting the money from beyond a week ago.
I gotta just start out.
This is even working.
Who's been fighting exactly?
And there's another question.
If, if the first order for some remnant of the empire can get all these ships,
why the hell isn't the Republic buying crazy amount of ships?
And fighting the first order.
If this is how this war works and if they have all these resources,
as some people have pointed out as well.
Did he actually just say that it's like,
it's better than having no backstory for these people who are just like,
is he referring to the OT as a bunch of space battles
with no backstory of these people?
Or, or is that just something I've invented?
Cause I hope he's not saying that.
Apparently we have no idea how the war economy,
because there was no previous movies.
How do you not find that interesting?
Being mad that they decided to deepen the story just makes you sound,
I don't know, not very smart.
There you have it, folks.
You're, you're just not smart.
You can deepen the story.
Just don't do it.
Shit.
Like that.
You don't get film.
You're not smart.
There's, I don't like your women.
Kind of weird for a story.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I agree with that.
It is kind of weird.
It's about space wizards for kids.
Here it comes.
Yeah, he's, he's, this is, he said, so the guy says it's weird for Star Wars
and he's going to say, look at how many weird things are in Star Wars already.
Therefore, everything is allowed in Star Wars.
That's going to be the argument, isn't it?
This is one of the weirdest film franchises ever made.
Weird for a Star Wars movie would be if Luke pulled out a Snickers bar
and started shoving it up.
Whoa.
Okay.
I'm not sure how to respond to that one.
I guess that's where he goes when he wants something weird.
Okay.
This place jumped too.
Okay.
What is with this music?
I would almost say I tackle clones better and I hate that one.
What are you making a prescription drug commercial?
What the fuck is this?
Luke is my favorite character.
He's commenting on his music choices.
Well, you could easily chop this video up for all of the crappier, like, uh, petty responses.
There's so many of them where he just like picks on a thing that just doesn't matter.
It's like, okay.
I mean, montage the shit out of this.
Now I finally have some free time.
My, my assumption would be using music.
That's a little bit like it sounded a little bit sad.
I'm guessing that that was the point.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I'm disappointed to all hell.
Yeah.
This guy sound like he's recording his voiceover in the bathroom.
Maybe he doesn't have a mic.
That's good enough, dude.
Like enough for you.
I mean, so he's giving an explanation.
Oh my goodness.
Voiceover in the bathroom.
Not sure why it's messed up.
Won't happen again.
What do you mean not sure why it's messed up?
It's called you're not using a mic.
Is this supposed to be funny?
Um, it's pretty accurate.
I mean, the guy, the guy said he messed up the audio.
He's going to sort out next time that the guy's like, ha.
More like I wonder, is it using a bike next time?
He was using an ice cream cone.
That's what he was like.
How do you think he recorded his voice?
He didn't have a microphone.
Like I said, that was a joke, I guess.
It landed about as well as Ryan Johnson's ones.
He's the guy that he's citing.
Like, does he have that same mic for several videos or just that one?
Because then you can just kind of, you know, think like, oh yeah,
it was a flu.
He was using the wrong input.
Maybe he already recorded it.
I don't know.
I don't know why I'm stuck on that.
He lacks proper audio equipment.
Therefore, his argument is invalid.
Yeah.
It's like what?
I don't know.
And he had the power to break himself out,
but he only does it when he meets Finn and the little Asian chick.
Why?
I can't stand stuff like that.
It's just so, it's so convenient.
And it's just like, well, why did he do this before they got here?
He had the power of just, why?
Why movie?
Why?
Dude, honestly, I'm starting to worry about you.
Since he was able to break out the entire time,
he was obviously just staking out that jail cell.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Staking out a jail cell?
Whoa, let's rewind.
So first of all, the odds that there's a person who even wants to get caught
deliberately to break out once someone of interest is in the same cell as him.
That's just the fact that he exists.
That's amazing.
Two, he's in the same cell as them.
That's pretty fucking lucky.
Three, it happens to be the same time as them on this mission.
He's doing this whole thing while they're doing their whole thing.
He's like, wow, that's pretty lucky too.
And then four, this is also a guy who happens to be able to know how to break into,
in secrecy, the highest paid and most functional government
that currently exists in this galaxy.
It's like, do I begin to explain to you that this is extremely convenient?
This is probably more convenient than literally anything in a movie.
Did you just imagine if he wasn't in their cell
and the doors just unlock and they're like, okay.
That would make more sense.
I've never heard of a opportunist stake out a jail cell before.
I can't wait to see what lucky smuck I can find under my cleverness as they enter my jail cell.
Who ends up in jail cells typically?
It's like, oh well, thugs, thieves, et cetera.
He's like, he's waiting for one of them Saudi princes that have loads of money, I guess.
That just ends up in jail cells.
Then he winds up with some crazy person and shanks the crap out of him.
Jesus, he's actually going to defend this.
Since he was able to break out the entire time,
he was obviously just staking out that jail cell,
waiting for some high bounty resistance fugitives to be thrown in there.
So then if it did break out, high bounty resistance fugitives.
What's your bounty by the way?
Oh, not high enough.
Again, the resistance wasn't even the rebels, you know, two days ago.
What do you mean?
Turn them in and make a deal.
Whoa, no, he didn't intend to turn them in until he was caught.
He was helping them with their plaid.
He got them in the room.
Do you guys know about this?
A lot of people think that DJ screwed them from the beginning,
but they've clearly forgotten the scene where BB-8, Nazi BB-8 spots them.
You remember that?
Yeah.
That's the reason they're caught, not because of DJ.
DJ cuts a deal after they're caught.
Yeah.
Remember, he puts his hands up when they all come in the room
because he's been caught too.
He's not on the fucking team of the Stormtroopers, you idiot.
He's a neutral party doing a job.
He doesn't have allegiances.
Yeah, that's his whole thing.
He explains that.
He's not anyone's team.
He lives to be thrown in there so that if he did break out,
he could turn them in and make a deal that would exonerate him of whatever crime he committed.
I cut out the deal.
Yeah, that doesn't...
Throwing one line out of context doesn't mean your entire fucking story makes sense now.
No, that's not what happens to the film.
Now he's actually getting away with breaking out of jail,
and he gets a fat stack of cash,
but he wasn't about to break himself out until he had a good reason to do so.
I love how he explains that as if it's just not convenient.
Like, even if we understood what you're saying is true,
yes, that is still massively convenient, you understand?
Much like his character.
The entire point was that, yeah, there's suddenly a guy who came out of nowhere.
Who can do all the things we need him to?
Jesus.
He overheard them talking about breaking into Snoke's ship, and he took advantage.
That's... that's fine.
No one's questioning that particular piece.
Jesus.
Damn, man.
I honestly don't think you're mentally fit to sit in a movie theater.
There we go.
All right.
All right, at the end, put on the fact that he's unhealthy.
I like the unhealthy one.
I get that a lot, too.
The film wasn't that hard to understand.
That's a little blow.
I mean, that's pretty sad.
Wow.
You can call him, like, stupid or, you know, he doesn't like women,
but to say he's mentally unfit.
Well, with everything else he's said, it's not even a surprise to be at this point.
He just seems to like to throw an insult at the end of a lot of this stuff.
Okay.
And I love that it wasn't DJ in the ATST, and it was BB-8 instead.
You love that?
Did you guys see Plinkus' review where he was just, like, his head exploded for a second?
He's like, how did he get in there?
How did he escape earlier from being found?
How did he manage to hack into it and stay still?
What is...
Why did the thing come off its head to show BB-8 the whole thing just to stop?
It was the direct opposite of this moment earlier,
where you think BB-8 is flying the ship, but it's really DJ.
What?
How far do you have to reach to make this even remotely okay?
That's the best.
Because it's not DJ, therefore it's okay.
The reason BB-8, saving them later, is so genius,
is because earlier we thought it was BB-8, but it was actually DJ.
It's like, okay.
So he didn't turn to bed, you guys.
He went to that to respond.
Yeah, all of that is bad, though.
Sure enough, Luke Skywalker comes in,
hey, what's going on here?
Hey, cut that out.
Like, he caught them like I've been finger sexed in the middle.
Oh my god, this movie is so fucking stupid.
Oh, I hate this movie.
Dude, can you please go into therapy like ASAP?
I mean, he's probably playing it up, man.
How often is he going to keep doing this?
I'm concerned for you.
Wow, calm down.
It's better than countering arguments.
Just saying your opponent is insane.
Yeah, it's easier, quicker.
Yeah.
I'm serious.
There was a lot happening and a lot at stake in this.
No, there's not.
What was at stake?
What do you mean?
There's nothing at stake.
What, was someone going to die if they touched each other?
What's the concern here?
Nonsense.
Tell us what the stakes are instead of just saying there are.
If all you see in it is that they had finger sex, that's sadder than finger sex.
She hits freaking Luke upside his head, just blindsides him from the...
Yeah, I never liked that.
It's really just cheap as fuck from Rey.
It's like, what the hell?
Just knock an old man on the head for this better piece.
No, I can believe it with how much power she's had throughout the other films.
I'm surprised Luke managed to stand for a few seconds, to be honest.
Luke didn't stand a chance, let's be honest.
What do you want him to do?
Beat the shit out of her?
Yes.
Luke has a good heart.
He's not really going to fight with it.
Luke has a good heart.
He only just kind of tried to murder someone that they turned into the biggest mass murderer.
Leave everybody for dead and ignore the call of action.
He's got a good heart, sort of.
Young girl.
Unless you were hoping he was going to turn bad in that scene,
then I could see being disappointed by it.
Why would he be disappointed?
What?
Luke doesn't have to kill her or anything.
Definitely, yeah, it's not really the way it's done.
Just knock her down and be all like, all right.
And why would Luke need to become a Sith in order to
raise ass onto the ground?
Just be like, shut the fuck up, sort of thing.
Why does he need to be a Sith to do that?
Yeah, why doesn't he just do a flying saber-bong handle thing?
He's renounced being a Jedi, isn't he?
So, you know, he could be a great Jedi.
He could be someone who's morally ambi-
Fuck it, whatever.
Right, some Star Wars.
That's what they have made her.
Oh, and I can't imagine you're happy about that.
Because even when they burn down the temple with the holy freaking Jedi books,
Yoda comes in and is like, this bitch is Jesus.
She already knows all of that.
I'm like, what?
That was not the point of that scene.
Yeah, yeah, she's got all the books.
Nothing in the tree isn't something that Rey already has.
I got it.
I guess some people miss the fact that he's not actually saying that Rey knows everything,
even though we would assume she does, considering how good she is at everything.
That was always the assumption.
Yoda appeared to help Luke get over the burden of him creating Kylo Ren.
The courageous teacher-
Really?
Failure is-
Apparently.
And he really makes Luke-
That was the point of burning down the tree?
You know that the fish nuns, they're just like, dude, really?
How the hell did-
Thanks, Yoda.
Who the ghost gremlin did it, man?
For 30 years, you didn't tell Luke that?
Just waiting?
Tell him right now.
I love that, by the way.
The idea that he's like, the tiny gremlin puppet ghost did it, not me.
The only reason he's doing the Call of Duty is because they kicked him off the island over it.
Yeah, that would be a perfect scene for the ghost nuns,
because they're just pretty much there to just get angry and pissed off at everyone,
and to have them walk in like, what are you doing?
What the fuck?
I mean, Luke and Kylo.
And the only thing that you gained from that scene was that Rey is Jesus?
Just why?
We later find out that this link was done by Snopes.
Snopes, Snopes, whatever you want to call them.
Now you're just doing it on purpose.
Oh, as if your fucking responses have been any kind of, like,
higher caliber.
When you're like, you're not healthy, you need to look at women more.
I will never get over that.
No.
You don't even know the character's name, since you're too cool to even remember the film.
But he dies.
He's completely, don't know anything about him.
Just, just dead.
Just, why was he even in this film if he's that little of a character?
You didn't even know his name!
Now you're gonna pretend like you were-
Doesn't that support his argument?
Yeah, pretty much.
He doesn't know his name because he's not got a character.
Invested in him?
Were people not paying attention to the frickin' scene?
You're not supposed to like this guy.
Why do you have to like a character to care that they have a character?
You can dislike someone.
A lot, actually.
Yeah, we can dislike antagonists and still care about the backstory.
Still like to know how they got to this point.
It's a strange argument, but we'll let it slide.
You're supposed to be rooting for Kylo to slice him in half.
Forget the stupid-
What?
We're rooting for Kylo to slice Snoke in half.
Why the hell would he do that, though?
And then he does it-
Well, yeah, we're still left, like-
And part of me, why would you root for Kylo when he's a bad guy?
You're not supposed to like bad guys.
This is confusing.
Fan theories for two seconds.
Forget the useless backstory that was so not necessary to the drama.
The useless backstory that never existed, okay.
Yeah, it's like, I agree with you.
It is useless backstory because it didn't have a use, because it didn't fucking exist.
It's like, if anybody's unclear, like Snoke's backstory is incredibly important
because he's the lynchpin that connects episode six to seven.
He reignited the First Order.
He destroyed the Republic.
He's the Sith, but not like he's what remains of the Dark Side, I suppose.
Uh, he's the one who turned Kylo.
He's destroyed the Jedi as they stood after episodes.
He basically turns episode six into episode seven.
That's why his history is so important.
He turns a planet into a Death Star?
I mean, all these crazy things because of him.
And so the audience goes, how did he do that?
And then people like Lee are like, no one cares about that.
He's a bad guy.
Fuck him.
And Snoke, you set up Snoke as this guy.
Good twist though, right?
It's not a good twist, but you killed him with no story.
We didn't find out anything about him.
I love how this guy clearly liked the film.
He's just being really nice to this crazy guy.
Now let's just sell the reverse.
I love how this guy clearly hated the film,
but he's just trying to be nice to his friend over there.
That's meaningless, even if it was true.
One thing you liked about it.
One thing that I liked about Star Wars The Last Jedi.
Also, he went and had that awesome badass helmet.
This continues ranting.
He's awesome.
And then he just smashes it and now he has no more helmet.
Wow.
So out of the entire movie, the whole two and a half hours of densely packed scenes.
That's not what he said.
Why does he do this all the time?
He takes an argument and just jumps to a different fucking universe of arguments.
What?
The only thing you liked about the film is how one of the masks.
No.
That's not what happened.
That's not what he said.
Oh my God, is he stupid?
Okay, now I'm doing it.
Oh, gee.
Let's play it again.
Let's make sure, you know, give him, give him,
he was probably right.
We're probably the ones who got that wrong.
Film.
He's just being really nice to this crazy guy.
Name one thing you liked about it.
One thing that I liked about Star Wars The Last Jedi.
Also, Kylo Ren had that awesome.
Yep.
So he said, also, he's continuing the rant.
He's going on to a little tangent there.
He wasn't saying, like, that was my only favorite thing.
Yeah, so, I mean.
So he wasn't paying attention.
And this guy edited this together.
I don't know how he managed to miss that so many times.
I'm not going to assume that he's doing this maliciously.
I'm going to say that it was a mistake.
Because I'm nice.
Bad ass helmet, right?
And then he just smashes it, and now he has no more helmet.
Wow.
So out of the entire movie, the whole two and a half hours of densely packed scenes,
the only thing you-
Do you like densely packed scenes, by the way?
It's so dense.
Dude, every second, something happened.
Yeah, they set that up a fact to the baddest, dude.
Liked about the film is how one of the masks looked.
What are you, seven years old?
Don't the hell know-
Oh, he's making it really hard to like him anymore in any way, shape, or form.
No, he is contradictory.
He just keeps flying with the insults.
He's not paying attention to his own criticism of another person.
And he's just not listening.
He just doesn't care.
He has his own bias, and he's holding on to it.
Yeah, he needs to stay away from using the word dense, I think.
People are gonna start reflecting it.
It's cool, though.
I know, but we're not-
No, but the helmet was really cool.
Dude, the helmet was cool.
I thought the helmet was cool.
That was the Knights of Ren look.
I thought that was the point.
That was their uniform.
They all wore it.
I'm putting my hands up here.
I thought it was cool.
Am I bad now?
Am I wrong?
I want clarification from Lee.
And as somebody who's trying to, you know, take after Vader, it only makes sense.
Yeah.
The whole character of Kylo Ren is he wants to be his grandfather.
And of course, he's gonna look and act like him and try and be him.
He's Darth Fanboy.
Of course he'd wear it.
Exactly.
Why did he have to smash it?
I don't get it.
Because that scene was so stupid.
It was so dumb for Snoke to just suddenly get pissed off at his helmet
out of nowhere after all this time.
It's like, hey, why are you wearing that helmet?
This will smash.
Why would this even happen?
Yeah.
And it's like, if you still love Vader, why would you smash the helmet?
Because somebody else doesn't like it.
It's like, yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, he's going on to explain the mask thing.
So my issue with it was Snoke is like, take off that ridiculous thing.
It's like, okay, a bit weird considering Kylo's been with you since the temple,
we assume.
And in the flashback, he was wearing the mask with the Knights of Ran
during the temple stuff.
So he's had the mask this whole time, and now you tell him it looks silly.
Like, okay, bit strange.
And even then, why would he smash it?
Why would he just put it back on when he's alone?
Yeah, I guess it was a character moment.
He's grown beyond the mask.
I mean, I've always, I believe there is a clip floating around you can find
where Rian Johnson said one of the things he wanted to do straight away
was get rid of Kylo's mask because he wants his face.
We can emote more.
And it's just like, oh, so it's not really tied to the story.
It's just something Rian wanted, which could be the subtitle for episode eight, I suppose.
Or that I had wanted it.
He was humiliated.
He just found out that he killed his dad for nothing.
You don't.
What?
None of this makes sense, dude.
That's the only response to it.
I like the snap, by the way.
We both just had like a what the fuck moment.
I'm having so many face palms right now.
I'm just like, it's tough to follow this.
It's tough.
Smash something after that.
And he only wore that mask to cover up the fact that he was conflicted.
Now that he's really.
Say what?
No, no, not quite.
What?
And this is stuff that you're just writing onto the film.
There's no there's no part where it's like revealed
that he uses it to hide his conflicted emotions.
He takes it off in front of Han, if you remember.
Yeah.
In The Force Awakens, like he's not only wearing the mask,
but he's like looking over the charred up Vader mask.
And I had immediately gleaned from it that he's doing it
because he wants to follow in Vader's footsteps.
And maybe he's in space.
He needs it to breathe when he's on other planets.
It's just a safety thing.
So why not keep it on?
It's also protection when he's fighting.
Yeah.
And it makes it more intimidating because the voice obviously sounds scarier when he's.
Yeah, he was he was pretty intimidating when he had it on.
This is the point where he decides to actually be evil.
Okay, wait, I missed that go back.
You say the part where you went to kill Luke.
That's what he decided to be evil.
Can you believe this guy is arguing for the depth of this film
that he said her character decides to be evil.
Oh, wow.
The Force Awakens.
He was being nice.
Sounds like a cartoon, doesn't it?
Yeah, he was he was he was good that he was a evil.
He was a nice Vader fan and the red and the red is not bad enough.
Not bad enough.
He didn't kill Han Solo.
He didn't try to kill Luke and would actually have done so if he wasn't fortunate.
I mean, I don't know what the context of his his comment was there.
All I heard him say was he's not bad enough.
Like what was he saying that about?
Was there a particular scene?
What was it was in reference to something?
Now, at this point in the video,
the other guy clearly has given up trying to pretend that he hates the film.
Okay, I think that's it.
No, he's not.
He's trying to finish the scene with this because what happened was Roz kept talking
and he's like trying to like get the story going so he could finish up because he asked him.
Okay, that's it.
What'd you think of the movie?
Yeah, you don't have so long on a time slot.
Exactly.
So he's just being the straight guy saying,
oh, our director over there is telling us to, you know, Roz is keeping going.
And he does he does that with any any movie.
He does that a lot.
So it's normal.
This is a normal relationship that these guys have.
Yeah.
People in chat.
So he wasn't evil when he decided to slow to that village.
No, that was a good spotter.
Okay, that's good.
That's his thoughts on The Last Jedi.
Oh, shit.
Now he's mad.
This guy really likes the movie.
What is what is your purpose here?
Like, what are you what are you trying to do here?
Be like, see, he's being unreasonably bad at the movie because this man doesn't like it.
He's obvious.
This assists my argument in the The Last Jedi is amazing.
And you're all insane.
It's like, okay.
He has so many points to make.
He's making his friend uncomfortable.
I don't know.
Awkward.
Now he's turning away.
He straight left the interview.
It's not an interview.
These are this is a morning show.
You could easily argue that he's playing it for the audience because it adds to the funnies.
Like, this guy's lost it sort of thing.
It's funny.
Look at him go, man.
Just fanboying too hard.
I'm not part of this conversation.
Oh, he's lost his mind.
He needs to be put in charge.
No, I hated this movie.
Good for you, man.
Good luck with your hate.
Oh, boy.
I love it.
That's a Patrick Willems level argument as well.
It's like, why hate?
Why can't you guys see what I could see instead of hate?
Can't you love Star Wars like I do?
I think that was something I had everything said as well.
If you guys remember, he said, it's so weird that for a franchise based on like
finding the good or finding the positive, so many people hate it.
It's like, what the fuck?
And then the other comment that always gets revolved around where people are like,
nobody hates Star Wars, like Star Wars fans.
And then people laugh and repeat that.
And it's like, why would anyone hate it if they weren't a fan of it already?
Like, how do you hate?
How do you come to hate something if you didn't have investment in it?
You know, like, if it was just a blank thing, like why?
Same with any other franchise.
If you told me that people hate the new Star Trek films,
I'd probably be like, oh, is it Star Trek fans?
Like, original Star Trek fans.
Is that why?
That would be my first assumption.
Exactly.
It wouldn't be people who are completely disconnected.
It's like, oh.
Yeah.
It's the same with any space opera that we've invested our time in,
because the original thing was excellent.
The first iteration and the second chapter or, you know,
another director's take on something is different.
And you're like, ooh, this is not what I signed up for.
So yeah, that's all it is.
It's just that what was before was great.
And what is after is not.
We as well.
There's no clips from, I mean, you know, a lot of people's videos,
but mine and Wolf's videos don't manage to make it into this one.
No, he wouldn't be able to stomach yours.
He can't.
I made the short rage video.
There's a couple of things I actually got wrong in it.
Like, he could have tore apart or at least tried,
but I'm disappointed he didn't include mine or Wolf's.
I seem to just keep, like, using examples of people that are,
like, being really emotive and then just calling them weirdos and crazies.
Yeah, there's definitely a lot of that.
I haven't seen, like, a lot of particularly good points for him to,
you know, rebuke, I guess.
This is like I said, people have sold this as one of the best videos
to show why The Last Jedi is good.
It's just like, oh, this is a biased fanboy who cannot see beyond their own note.
It's just one sided.
He can't understand the other side.
And he's picking apart when people get emotional
and then calling them emotional or mentally deficient or something.
And then not listening to his own words.
It's very disturbing, actually, when you think of a fan who's that blind.
Well, yeah, I mean, dude, there's nothing about this film
that seems to have any flaw in it.
He's, like, convinced that even I admitted
there was some good things about The Last Jedi.
Like, at the base levels, like, I can't say the soundtrack is bad
because there's not a lot of visuals that work.
There's certain scenes where the actors are pulling off a decent job.
It's just like, you know, that I'm going to be reasonable here.
But he's just like, no, everything's on board.
He's like, nothing doesn't work.
Oh, nothing changes.
Oh, my God, really?
Nothing changes.
Exactly.
Everyone else is complaining about how they shit all over Star Wars,
shit all over Luke and the Jedi.
You gotta at least admit that there were changes.
There's a lot of other funny moments, though,
especially the opening scene with Luke Skywalker.
No, you did not just say X, especially.
Oh, come on.
Stop it.
I thought he was going to have a problem with the fact
that you referred to the lightsaber throw as funny,
but I was going to be like, well, yeah, it is funny.
Like, yeah, that's the ride Jaws was going for.
I'm pretty sure.
I didn't see him with Luke Skywalker.
So their whole plan is to escape under the radar.
Sure enough, Anisio del Toro, surprise, surprise,
he sells them out and lets them know, hey,
they're escaping under the radar.
And then they start firing at them.
Boom, destroying ships.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
All that goes on.
Yeah, just skip over this whole part just to help your.
You can talk about what the fuck he wants.
Might not even be a part of his point.
Yeah, but he's trying to make a summary
and he just didn't do this scene because he's focusing on his point.
What a strange counter.
It's like your plus summary didn't cover every aspect
that I wanted you to cover.
Yeah.
Okay.
Argument.
Go ahead.
Let's get to the to the real climax.
What I thought was the climax, which isn't a climax at all.
Oh, come on.
How is this not a climb?
Because he doesn't think it is.
He just said, and I would call it an anti-climax probably.
Possibly.
It's the kind of thing where.
Yeah, it's very confusing.
It's very unconventional.
Whatever you have.
We never have more than one.
You can't consider the first one, the anti-climax,
depending on your point, your stake in that part of the story.
Sure.
Just the fact that it's Luke is there.
Luke is dead.
Luke is not.
Luke is over there.
Now Luke is dead.
It's the most like, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Yeah, you could take the light speed ram as the climax.
Some people take that and then you could take the scene with Luke as the climax.
Then another one when Luke dies, so it depends.
If you were to take this one as the climax, like I said, the reason why it's almost an
anti to me is because I got confused as hell watching it.
I was just like, what am I supposed to think about what's just happened?
I mean, a lot of people didn't even know if he was dead.
They were like, is he just chilling in the force for a bit or is he actually dead?
Yeah.
Well, when you're a project of ghost, it's kind of hard to have a stake in or understand
the value of his magic we've never seen before.
It's like, what's the value?
What's the empirical value of these things happening?
Is he actually stabbed?
Does his mind think he's stabbed?
There's all these questions we don't know yet.
Climax, so much when I saw this part, I got the whole theater pregnant.
Every Star Wars film has like an epic moment.
As Star Wars fans, we love that lightsaber duel that they always deliver in the end.
Now they set up something between Kylo Ren and Luke Skywalker.
And right when you start getting into it, they just rip it away from you.
And nothing happened.
Like literally, it didn't happen.
Yeah, nothing happened.
The screen just went black for 10 minutes.
He's obviously talking about the fight ending.
I doubt he's he's saying that the screen went black for 10 minutes.
That's probably not his point, but it was not a real conflict.
That's what he's saying.
There's nothing.
There was no stake.
There was no threat.
It's literally a projection.
There's there's nothing to have a conflict over.
And it's quite a wind down, isn't it?
It's like Luke wasn't there.
The people are escaping.
They got on the Falcon that got him out.
Oh, Luke did die, though.
And then everybody leaves.
And you're sort of like, oh, oh, oh, OK.
It's like cinematic blue balls because you're like, oh, oh, oh, oh, OK.
There we go.
See Luke fight Kylo.
But a Luke would have gotten his ass kicked and be what?
Why?
Why?
Why?
It doesn't doesn't.
What's a Darth?
What's his name?
Fail at almost everything.
Yeah.
Kylo doesn't tend to do very well past what?
Like the first half of Force Awakens from there on.
He's just shit.
Yeah.
So a grand master who will, even if he probably do a few things that he couldn't go.
Really?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Pick a magic.
He said it.
He said Luke would lose.
So he would lose.
Fair enough.
It's a good argument.
Instead, does the real Luke Skywalker thing to do and shows Kylo some compassion.
He apologizes.
Doesn't he do that?
Either after or before throwing insults at him.
Pretty sure.
He's not the stoic master in that scene.
He's also like.
Yeah, he says like, amazing.
Everything you said was wrong.
I failed you, Ben.
He tries to give Kylo closure.
Just to plant a seed in his heart that might pull him back to the light.
Oh, stop fucking.
Didn't you just say that he's decided to be evil?
Are we going to be talking about Kylo's permanent jump from good to bad
throughout every single film and he just keeps murdering innocent people.
He's like, I'm going to be good.
Maybe I'm thinking about it.
If you can't appreciate that, then you just don't get what Luke is really about.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
See, I feel like that's when you've given up.
When you're trying to argue this stuff, if you just go, well, you just don't get it.
You start listening.
I'm sure you are.
Once again, the Jedi would have him take Kylo out, but he is above that.
His heart is bigger than that.
We find out it's a hologram.
Fucking Luke did that in the originals anyway,
and he didn't do that in the history of these films.
It's so confusing.
Like, what is your point?
No matter what your point is, there's going to be something
that counters it in the sequel trilogy, like in some way.
Luke has done some force voodoo bullshit.
You must not have heard of remote viewing, but okay.
No shocker there.
Luke Skywalker.
Wait, wait, wait.
Remote viewing.
Is that on the EU?
I don't know if that was a joke or not.
No, no.
Was remote viewing in the EU?
Possibly, but you might be making a joke about like remote viewing as a program.
You can use on computers as well to remote onto other machines.
Like, I don't know if he's making a joke.
Well, okay.
If it's, if it's an actual force power, I don't know,
but we've already established, as he knows, the EU doesn't.
So he can't be referring to it.
Well, that's, yeah, I mean, yeah, that's the thing.
Even if it was a thing in the EU, he's obviously,
I genuinely think that was an attempt at a joke.
Okay.
Strains him so much that he dies.
That's how he dies.
That is how you're gonna have Luke Skywalker go out.
What, did you want him to get his head chopped off?
Using a sophisticated Jedi mind trick to sacrifice himself and save the rebels
was the best that he could do.
Sorry that wasn't good enough for you.
You disrespected Han Solo, you already disrespected Leia,
but that is how you're gonna have Luke Skywalker go out.
Really?
Really?
Yeah, really?
You thought this was disrespectful?
This is like the most peaceful death anywhere.
Pretty painful.
Yeah, and, and it's less about the specific scene context list.
It's more about the film as a whole for me.
I guess I actually think that that death scene would work in a good film for Luke,
but I'm not sure how I would try and make it work,
but yeah, everything surrounding it is horrendously bad.
If we just ignore all of it, it'll work.
There's no real explanation why he would do that.
He got taught a lesson by Yoda that failure is a way of life
and all this wonderful stuff, and then that's it.
And a lot of people have asked,
since when did he find out which planet to remote to?
How does that all work?
And not to mention, this isn't an ER pointed out,
but everyone talks about how amazing it is
that Luke doesn't make any marks on the floor,
as it is like, ah, see, he's setting up and thinking,
but it's like, but the wind blows his hair and his clothing.
Yeah, as, as Doomcock was saying,
he emits light hits him, he reflects light,
he's touching Leia, he has magical dice or whatever.
Yeah, aren't those dice tangible?
Yeah, they're all physical.
They all have matter.
And it's just like, okay, he's a next level wizard.
This is beyond our understanding that he can do this stuff.
So what you just highlighted, right,
is the process of they spot something logical
that's really connected to the thing.
And so they're like, this is great.
How logically amazing and blah, blah, blah it is.
Then you counter with a bunch of logical things
that don't make sense.
And what are they going to do?
Space Wizards, dude, what the fuck?
I feel like, oh, sorry, I didn't realize.
Myth was confused by this part.
This is the one thing I stumbled onto.
Is there, and I can't, maybe I missed it.
I saw it twice.
Was there a reason he physically couldn't be there?
Oh, I don't know.
Maybe it's because he didn't want to get vaporized by lasers
or sliced in half.
Like, maybe it was like, you know,
you can't get there.
So he knew that that exact scenario
was on that planet at that time.
He knew that everything had gone wrong with the plan.
Luke knew everything that was going on
and made this conscious decision.
That's the thing, too.
It's like, well, I'm pretty sure he knew
this was going to kill him, too.
So.
And everyone's saying, but he died anyway.
Yeah, exactly.
So he died anyway.
So that's what I'm thinking.
It's like he does the mind.
He does that freaking, you know, clone Luke thing,
but he doesn't he know that's going to kill him?
It's just funny, man.
It's like the whole reason he didn't go
was because he knew he'd die.
So instead, he killed himself.
It's like, what?
I'm really having trouble following this.
But if I was in charge, I would have sent him there.
Like he would have been there in physical person.
Yeah.
If you were in charge, right.
Unless he had some kind of.
So if you make something that you don't like once,
you know, longer than being fucking all dudes,
if you never made a bad video on YouTube, that's never happened.
I mean, judging from today,
I could say that we've got confirmation on whether or not that's true or shield.
The only way for Luke to distract Kylo long enough to help the rebels escape
was for him to not physically be there.
Tell us, Kevin, what would you have done if you were in charge of this film?
That moment where all the fucking ships bear down and shoot him,
they can't get him because he's a fucking Jedi master.
And he's just like, I would have loved it if he deflected each shot
into all the fucking walkers until everyone was fucking dead, except him and Kylo Ren.
Really?
So you'd want to see something so mindless and easy and also kind of out of character.
If we're really just talking about the films here.
I mean, he's deflected a couple of lasers.
I mean, yeah, he's done it before, but why would he do it again, though?
It's out of character and then he shows him doing it.
What is he talking about?
It's not like why would he defend his loved ones?
That's stupid.
Yeah, he's possibly got decades of experience now.
His powers have probably grown to feats beyond what people have seen.
Like now he can reflect freaking AT lasers and everything.
Like, I believe that.
Well, you could do that laser grabby thing that Kylo did only better somehow, you know?
Yeah, I actually did that in my rewrite.
You know, the prequels had when Yoda is attacked by Dooku's lightning.
It goes into his hands and then he neutralizes it almost.
What you could have had is the AT-ATs all fire on him and dust goes up.
You can't quite see it.
They're all clear and they're all just held in mid-air and then Luke just dissipates.
All the lasers in mid-air.
He doesn't fire him back.
He just fires them back.
I'm going to say, like, no crazy stuff.
Okay, all we got him for is he holds them mid-air and then he dissipates them and he
just looks up and you're like, he didn't even fire them back.
He's like, oof, what a stoic Jedi master, you know?
And then Kylo could be like, fuck you.
I'm going to come kill you myself.
Scene is fixed.
There you go.
There you go.
Nah, you can just, and if someone's like, I don't like it.
It's like, okay, well, I didn't like the last Jedi.
Well, I didn't like what we got, so.
Tear and lair.
This guy hasn't even had a lightsaber to train with for God knows how many years.
And yet he does the fight with Kylo where he's fucking spinning around and
matrixing his way through it.
So I know you could be like, that's a projection.
It's like, oh, well, I'm assuming the projection was of things he could still do.
No, okay.
Well, yeah, he was under the effect of gravity.
I mean, he was, you know, doing things with, with force, spinning his legs around and ducking.
Yeah.
Lightsaber.
So yeah, gravity was there.
Why not?
And in case you haven't noticed, he's old now.
Oh my God.
He did it.
He did the fucking argument from that dude that me and Wolf argued with like seven months ago.
Hey guys, remind me, how old was Yoda?
900 or something like that.
Remind me.
Palpatine was, was very young.
He was a spring chicken.
Wasn't he?
Okay.
He's bouncing like a spring chicken.
Holy crap.
He's spinning through the air.
Sounds like a top.
Okay.
He said something before that, though.
There was actually just a bit of the fucking old comment completely cut me off.
And had a lightsaber to train with for God knows how many years.
And in case you haven't known.
Yeah, he's using a deleted scene, but there.
You find that interesting?
He's like trying to portray something here with something that wasn't even in the film.
It's like, I guess we agree on that, Lee, that this scene should have been in The Last Jedi.
This is the scene where he mourns Hans death, which was cut because obviously who cares about that?
Otis.
He's old now.
And now that he is a ghost, they can probably shoot lightning from the sky like Yoda did.
Maybe now he can hold up against Kylo.
Oh my God.
Oh no.
Kylo's amazing, apparently.
Major Lee is suggesting that we see a Luke Skywalker force ghost using lightning on Kylo
Ren in episode nine.
Okay.
That's going to not create so many fucking questions as to how any of this works.
Jesus.
Ever think of that?
No.
And even if they had to have him die and he gets killed by Kylo Ren,
at least we would have seen Master Jedi, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.
This was our hero.
We grew up with this.
So in your version of the film, Luke is able to take down an army of walkers,
but gets killed by Kylo Ren anyway.
Why not?
You could write it so that he gives his life for him.
He's trying to change him back.
Was Obi-Wan defeated by Darth Vader or did you just allow him to kill him?
Yeah.
Or maybe he was using the force so strongly to deflect those blasts that he was kind of tired
and Kylo took advantage of that.
Yeah, but he could give Kylo a choice to spare him or kill him and then Kylo
beats a dick and he kills him.
So I was like, well, all right.
Yeah, or Kylo does a cheap shot of some kind.
Yeah.
There's lots of things you can do.
Don't just give up, man.
Don't give up.
You can always write.
Writing's tough, I know, but that's what makes it so fun as you get to work.
Oh yeah, that makes perfect sense.
The fans totally wouldn't have a hard time accepting that.
The whole point of this new trilogy is that Kylo and Rey are the most powerful characters now.
I'm glad you agree that that's the case,
even though it makes no sense.
We're almost there.
For everybody, because I know that the people in my fanbase typically don't like this film,
this is what it's like to enjoy the film.
You just casually go, Rey is one of the most powerful people.
Yeah, that makes sense.
And you're like, why, though?
And they go, well, because Rey is one of the most powerful people.
And you're just like, oh, that's it?
You're cool with that?
And they're like, it doesn't matter.
Space Wizards.
And you're like, oh, well, he's not even...
Because this is the thing, considering these are counter arguments,
and he hasn't even mentioned a potential origin for a power.
He's just sort of brushed over it.
It's like, it doesn't bother them.
People who like this film, they don't care.
And it's like, okay.
It's the kind of thing that really, really gets to a lot of people,
because it kind of affects everything that she's more powerful than basically anybody.
It's just fine.
Turn your brain off.
Ensnoke cannot physically beat them.
They both have to rely on mind tricks to manipulate their opponent.
If you don't see how that's cooler than fighting moves,
you're just a child.
Wait, wait, wait.
How can Snoke not physically beat them?
Yeah, Snoke is much better than Ray.
He literally picks her up.
Yeah, he holds her in the space.
He's about to snap her neck.
He's definitely more powerful than...
Snoke is easily the most powerful force user in the main line episodes of Star Wars.
No one is more powerful than that man.
He's insanely powerful.
So interesting take.
You know, he's like, oh, they have to manipulate them
because I can't beat them all.
It's like, just play the scene where Snoke just fucks around with Ray without even trying.
Whenever he flicks his finger.
And he can make a Skype, a Galactic Lightyear calls between two people.
Transfers material.
He can do double what Luke did for other people, and it doesn't even seem to faze him.
Right.
So yeah, he's definitely more powerful.
But again, why is he more powerful?
Who is he?
Who cares?
Who cares?
All right.
Because you remember the scene with Yoda when...
What was it?
I forgot the movie.
But when Yoda starts kicking ass, he's like, oof, moves that.
And then he grabs his lightsaber and he...
Amazing scene.
The best scene out of the movie.
All right.
Why the fuck am I watching your video, dude?
I mean, I'm not a huge fan of that scene myself, but it doesn't seem like, you know,
he's like, what the fuck am I watching your video?
It's like, well, I thought it was to counter his arguments, but you're not really...
I mean, never mind.
You're gonna bring up the single most made fun of, corny as shit thing they've ever done.
I don't know, man.
The fight scene in the throne room is getting shat on for all the terrible choreography.
Hey, my knife disappeared.
Like, that is the single worst moment of choreography in the history of Star Wars.
They actually CGI'd out a weapon to save the character's life.
How do you get more plot armor than that?
You make weapons disappear on command.
That's amazing.
I wish every character I kid about could do that.
People who love Yoda or love these sorts of ideas have characters that are very tiny.
Yoda is not physically strong, but you give him a lightsaber.
He starts doing fricking cartwheels and backflips.
That's pretty amazing as a kid, if you see that scene.
Oh, yeah.
I definitely liked it when I was a kid.
Yeah.
I know people, it was a penny arcade.
They hated the prequels, but then they saw this scene.
They were like, oh my God, this made me so happy.
So we can understand that lightsaber battles are part of Star Wars.
That's a given.
And if you don't give that to the fans and you get a quasi lightsaber battle that isn't really one,
you're going to piss people off.
And if you can't realize that, then you don't, I hate to say this,
but you don't get Star Wars or you don't get Star Wars fan.
I mean, he's already said that we don't get it, so.
I know.
I guess we don't.
Remember, we're all insane.
Oh, God.
The ultimate symbol of thoughtless CGI character ruining fan service.
And then I don't agree that it ruins the Yoda's character.
I hate everything said that, too.
I don't agree.
What exactly about this counters something Yoda said
and people might be like, he said you never attacked.
Like he's clearly defending Anakin and Obi-Wan here.
I think Plinkett actually had brought up what it is about.
And he had said that, you know, it's not about, you know,
how tall or strong you are.
You can match somebody using only the force.
And then here's Yoda having to do all these weird flips and jumps
in order to like match somebody.
I can agree that that's awkward.
And that's part of why I don't like this.
This moment is looking at it seems really silly, but it doesn't counter Yoda to me.
Okay.
He's still using the force, though.
All those flips are not his his own body, you know, doing four of half gainers.
And yeah, that's the other thing, by the way,
is that this is Yoda before the fall of the Jedi.
So to say like everything he said in the OT has to match him here,
you could be like, well, he became that character in the OT, you know,
like it is as a result of the prequels.
Yeah, maybe it would have made more sense for him to like,
not actually be holding the lightsaber, jumping and doing flips,
but like maybe telekinetically like swing it around and like slow walk toward Palpatine
and throwing more stuff, maybe.
Yeah, maybe that would even things out a little bit more
rather than having him do flips and cartwheels and stuff to match his height, you know.
Yeah, you know, I'm on board with the arguments.
I just I want to hear more of them because I'm not convinced.
Like I said, I don't I have my own reasons for not really connecting to the scene.
I happen to like the bit where they're using the force against each other.
I think that works for me, you know, like the electric and shit.
But yeah, the jumping around stuff, I always as an adult, I'm like,
hmm, not even remember the title of the movie.
And you're wearing a Star Wars shirt.
You show the clip in your video.
How do you not know the title?
Well, you would have put that in post, dude, so you would have known it then.
And yeah, I don't blame anybody for having a bit of a brain fart on certain names for things.
I don't think but what am I talking about?
This guy's picked up on people for pronouncing things wrong,
for having spit come out of their mouth when they speak fast,
like calling people unhealthy insane.
It's like, there's no depth he won't reach.
I hear that earlier.
I meant to say Dooku.
My bad.
All right.
Fucking just be like the equivalent of the Yoda fight in the prequels where Yoda takes on Dooku.
And you're like, holy fucking shit.
Ah, Kevin.
No, just no.
Not everybody hated the direction Luke was taken in.
Many critics praised the surprisingly deep.
Surprisingly deep.
Surprisingly.
I wasn't expecting it to be so, so deep as a puddle.
It's not only deep.
It surprised those with how deep it got.
It was this is next level beyond the pain.
Next level, depthitude.
Depthitude.
That Luke went through.
Even Joseph Gordon-Levitt who plays one of the...
What?
Why does...
What?
What alien?
Why does Joseph Gordon-Levitt, like why is...
Okay.
Aliens wrote a 2000 word essay passionately defending the arc of Luke Skywalker in this film.
Why does that matter though?
I could just say another actor didn't do that.
Okay.
Well written and perfectly articulates why...
It's well written and perfectly articulated.
Well, of course it is because you agree with it.
No one is a perfect hero or a perfect villain.
How about Darth Vader?
Yeah.
What was wrong with Darth Vader?
And people always say like this is the first time we've explored like moral ambiguity or
characters that are both good and bad and it's like we did that.
We really we...
That was that was the first six episodes.
It was a man who is not a specific hero at the beginning.
Not as a specific villain by the end.
It's...
We did that.
Flawless characters feel thin.
Oh, you mean like Ray?
Oh, geez.
Yeah, people are just saying Mark Hamill.
So does Mark Hamill's perspective matter to this?
Probably not.
This was really moving to a lot of people.
And the biggest complaint against it is that he didn't do cooler fighting moves.
Grow the fuck up.
Wait a second.
This is this is a film made for kids.
We want to see spaceships.
That's good, man.
And again, this is the guy who was showing spectacle his heart.
Yeah.
Star Wars is all about spectacle.
So why aren't you showing a spectacle?
I just I love those two quotes though.
It's like it's meant for children.
Grow the fuck up.
Wait, what?
What?
Why do you care then?
In fairness, I don't think we've actually heard him say it's meant for children.
But we know that fucking shit tons of other people who love this film say it's intended for children.
So then we saw Ryan Johnson a few days ago, actually tried to pull out a non canon book
to try to explain Luke's force project.
I always found that funny.
I was like, yeah, I could explain this thing that doesn't exist by this extra thing that never
existed either.
It's like, okay.
And at the end of The Last Jedi.
Again, you really showing that this criticism getting to you.
Yeah, or he was just showing you where he got the inspiration to do that awesome scene.
Since everyone had such a.
No, it was literally Ryan Johnson was like, it does make sense.
Stop saying it doesn't make sense.
And then he showed that and we were like, yeah, it still doesn't make sense, dude.
Blum with it and made memes about Ryan pulling force powers out of his ass.
Like the more you explain these problems in the movie through other sources of media,
the more you're admitting that there are major plot holes in this movie.
It's really bad.
It wasn't a plot hole that Luke learned how to force project.
Wait, it was.
When did he learn to do that?
Yeah, I was I was about if he had left it as the fact that he can do it is okay.
But the fact that he just highlighted.
Yeah, when did he learn to do that for the fucking books, I guess.
Yeah, I've seen nobody else do this.
The books that he admitted he didn't read.
That aren't canon.
No, I'm talking about the books in the fucking temple.
You know, what he was like.
Oh, yeah.
Yoda was like, have you read them?
He was like, why?
By the way, that's dumb.
Why the hell wouldn't Luke have read those?
What the hell else is he going to do on the island?
It's a twist that you didn't appreciate because you wanted something else.
It's really a twist.
You did appreciate because it was precisely what you wanted.
How are you any different?
He literally confirmed to us.
It was his theory that got confirmed.
All he wanted was for things to make sense.
That's his whole point of what he's talking about.
How Rian Johnson has to explain things on Twitter by using an EU book.
That's discontinued.
Even if it was a part of whatever canon, it would still be a problem as well.
Because it'd be like, why did you have to pull out a book to make your film make sense?
Yeah, put it in your film.
Make your film make sense.
Showing how the criticism is really getting to them.
It's really bothering Lucasfilm and Disney.
And that's absolutely true, by the way.
Fuck it.
Rian Johnson is not happy about the amount of criticism the film has got.
And I don't necessarily blame him more so than anyone else.
Because it's going to be tough to receive that amount of criticism.
But it's absolutely true that it's bothered the crap out of him.
When we watched that episode, I think when he was making Brick,
they did an interview with him.
And he wants his movies to be loved and hated.
He wants fans and people who hate it.
It's like, well, you've got a whole lot of fans.
You've got a whole lot of people who hate it.
The differences, the people who hate it, are a lot more talkative, to say.
Also, is he about to make the argument that the film made money, therefore, criticism doesn't matter?
Popularity, ad-populum, awesome.
It's really bothering Lucasfilm and Disney.
Oh, yeah, the criticism's really gay.
Made money, therefore, was not criticized, question mark.
What the hell?
Do you think Transformers is beloved?
Like, what the fuck is this argument?
Heading to them.
And it's kind of embarrassing at this point.
Like, man.
The only thing that's embarrassing is the...
The only thing that's embarrassing is you.
You're lame.
You don't understand film.
You're unhealthy.
You're angry.
You need to learn how to speak better.
I'm better than you.
Get a microphone.
What else is it going to be, dude?
I am so montaging these later.
I love how he just zooms in all the time.
Always zooms in on all the things.
It's genuinely a fucking lazy way of pretending like you've got video.
It's like a moving picture.
Things explained to them.
And now you're getting mad that they explained it?
Okay.
So it says,
The Star Wars Last Jedi Galactic Guide.
Another book in his room.
Look at his room.
Do you even like Star Wars?
You're pissed.
Pretty sure he likes Star Wars.
All those...
Those are movies and books behind him, I can tell.
And those are some...
That's a C-3PO behind him, by the way.
Yeah, yeah.
All those dolls on the side of a figurines.
Yeah, he likes Star Wars.
Yup.
Maybe not all of Star Wars?
Yeah, I think that's what it is.
You know, I think I just realized why this is my new favorite Star Wars film.
It's for one simple reason.
Because it pissed these people off.
Here we go.
That doesn't make you petty.
That doesn't make you sad.
That's a great reason to...
I love this piece of media because everyone else hates it.
I watch this movie to own them.
You don't want to admit that.
That's not something you want to be caught saying.
Then it's not a good fucking plot.
Like, man, stop.
Fans of this franchise needed a serious kick in the nuts.
And this movie got the job done.
And we were proud to kick it right back in the nuts, mate.
It was fun.
And put it on the shelf.
Oh yes, it's a spectacle and a lesson.
I mean, this is the thing.
The best teacher is failure.
It's like, this film's failure should be able to teach
a lot of aspiring screenwriters how not to make a fucking story.
Yep.
I mean, the amount of stupid theories.
Yeah, that's just this weird thing that you've got going
throughout this video.
You hate theories.
I don't...
Even though you make your own theories.
Painted Rex poison.
What's with this guy?
The fact that none of them came true, thank God.
Maybe now those...
Your theory came true, you retard.
What's with you?
So people will get a life.
Good.
But I think the amount of time that people spent speculating
really hurt their ability to enjoy and even comprehend the film normally.
When in reality, everything in this film was good.
Everything.
You just didn't appreciate it.
Everything made sense.
Everything.
Everything made sense.
What about the knife getting CGI'd out of existence?
Did that make sense?
No, it's perfect.
It's perfect.
Everything was good and perfect.
It made sense.
It's the best argument in favor.
Shut up and it pisses you off.
But because of our speculation of what we were expecting to happen in the movie,
we didn't have the mental capacity to see that.
Do you guys know the joke from Scrubs,
where one of the characters, Elliot, is literally digging a grave
while she's trying to defend her position?
It's like a literal joke.
I don't know if you've seen Scrubs at all,
but the joke is that she's done something wrong
and then she goes to apologize for it,
but then she starts making it worse and trying to justify her position,
and then it cuts to her in like a funeral, like a graveyard,
and she's in a grave, digging it as she makes her argument,
and I'm just picturing Lee in a grave.
The Last Jedi is perfect, flawless, amazing,
while he's digging and we're just like,
dude, you might want to jump out of there before it's too late.
Didn't get it.
All the changes were necessary.
Necessary.
What changes?
What is, does he talk about the script changes,
or like from the first chapter?
Like what is he like?
The changes, okay?
You're not following, it's the changes.
I wish I were.
The nebulous changes.
You just weren't ready for them.
You weren't ready.
Wait, you have to wait 10 years,
then you can watch this movie.
Everything was Star Wars-y as shit.
You just had a different definition in your head of what that meant.
Why can't we just say the exact same thing to you?
We have like several movies that we can reference,
not only the previous one,
that we were expecting things to happen from.
That's the response.
It would be like, yeah, we thought it was like those other six movies, whatever,
but no, you're right.
It was a completely different thing that we thought it was.
The dictionary definition of Star Wars-y doesn't match.
Oh, I can't believe it, guys.
We actually, we got to get two minutes left.
We got to make, we made it, we made it.
We can do it.
The perception of this movie,
really showed that Star Wars fans have a lot of issues,
but more importantly,
they really forgot how to sit and watch a film instead of-
What?
Doesn't that shit fucking take away, dude, really?
We can't watch movies.
We just don't know what we're doing.
Learn all you have a look on the webinar on the phone.
Turn off your brain and look at the boobs.
Aye, you're the one who hate women.
I just treat them like I can do, but that's, that's positive.
Making a boring cash grab film
that just feels like a trip to the Star Wars museum.
Yeah, because there's no repeat.
There's fucking Yoda.
You literally showed Yoda the second after that.
Like, yep, Yoda's in it.
The Falcon is in it.
Doing Falcon things.
The fucking X-Wigs are back.
TIE fighters are back.
Everything that comes with Star Wars.
Like, I don't know if you guys agree with this,
but a ER said it.
Well, ER was the first person I heard it from.
I just agree.
Everything past episode four is essentially fan service.
Yeah.
And like, I don't actually definitively think
fan service is bad.
It depends on how you do it.
So like, I don't know, if someone said like,
they only made Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker's father
to make the fans go, ooh.
I'd be like, well, yeah, I guess.
It's a pretty interesting twist though.
It works.
Well, the way that Lucas put that scene together,
he didn't tell anyone on the set,
step aside from the voice actor
and I think the other writer.
Yeah.
And that was it.
And Luke, and they said, if anyone finds out,
we'll know it was you.
Because nobody else did.
But yeah, it's, and this thing, the first one was made
like as a complete thing.
Oh, did he say it was past 83?
I could have sworn he said it was past episode four.
But if he said it was past 83, fine.
But the idea is the first one was made completely
because it was made.
And then the second one was made when it was like,
oh, shit, we can make more of these.
And it's not to say that it's bad.
It's not to say fanservice is bad.
It's a complicated thing, but it's interesting.
And just the idea that like any of these films
are not fanservice is like, come on.
What do you think they're doing when they have Yoda turn up?
This film had the balls to burn a few things down
and make some changes, making the series feel fresh again.
You know when Force Awakens burned down the Republic
and all of our heroes.
How come he's not saying that was bold?
How come Han Solo and Leia's marriage is destroyed.
This son is insane and evil.
Luke is gone.
He's a recluse.
Like how are these not bold changes exactly?
Yeah, I think the most important aspect of the new trilogy
would have to be Kylo.
Like that's the most original character.
And he's not incredibly original.
He just, people see him as an offshoot of the fanboy
who can never get what he wants out of Star Wars
and what have you.
The personification of that.
But he works.
He works for what he's worth.
And he's got a level of depth to him.
Like, you know, he has desires.
Yeah.
He has emotions.
He's conflicted.
He has emotions.
This is the positives we control.
Yeah.
You know, he emotes things.
He gets mad.
Is he a women?
Does he look like a women?
He loves his mommy.
He can't kill her.
You know, he's working with him.
There are things, is your point,
that you could say about this character
compared to Rey where you can't say anything.
I don't have to describe his costume
and his job to talk about it.
I don't know if you guys wanted that,
but that is what the series needed.
My biggest problem now is that I actually think
this is the end of the Star Wars universe.
I think this is actually where,
I think that this is the end.
I think people will cite The Last Jedi
where it all changed and turned.
And if Star Wars is unable
to make a profit down the line,
it'll be from The Last Jedi.
That's where it started to get.
Like that was the side of it falling apart
is what people will say.
But to be honest,
I can't see Star Wars dying for a while
just because it's so fucking big.
I guess you could make several Last Jedi's
and people will keep coming.
They're going to switch from a video
to online streaming service.
Maybe it deals with Netflix.
Whatever.
And they're going to make a lot of money still,
but it will never be what it used to.
After Solo,
I'm really not sure what the heck's going to happen
with the franchise.
I really can't speculate
because there was no setup for The Last Jedi.
Solo just bombed.
And I'm glad they made that announcement
that they're not going to be making anymore.
Or that they're slowing down production
because they have to be very careful
what they're doing.
They're spending hundreds of millions of dollars
on marketing.
We know that they now know
that they need to be careful,
which is interesting
because you'd think like,
I could just do every one.
You'll make money.
It's like, not quite actually.
Funnily enough, not quite.
If you weren't a complete hack,
yeah, I'd say you could.
If someone gave me 100 million bucks,
make the next Star Wars movie,
I would play it extremely safe.
I would not pull any,
like, oh, I'm going to start telling
a time travel story.
Like, no, no, no, no.
We're going to see what works,
throw in some new characters,
throw in some new drama,
create some fancy new weapons
that you can sell
or some ships that you can sell.
Make it work.
Make it work on a classic level.
It's funny you say this
because I know that if you wrote it,
though, you'd be like,
right, we're going to make some good characters.
Make sure that people actually
connect with these people.
I'd be like, yeah, well, now you're not a hack.
Some of us know how to write.
It's true.
Where Star Wars can go.
Yeah, for you, maybe.
You might not like the change,
but it is inevitable
to actually keep the series alive
throughout the years.
It did more damage to the series
than any other iteration.
I'm afraid the facts don't line up
with your hypothesis there.
Because now all the old characters are dead.
We've reached the end
of the Skywalker family, essentially.
Now that the old characters are dead,
they're not tied down to anything.
They weren't tied down
to anything in episode seven.
They could have done whatever they wanted.
The fact that Luke wasn't on screen
in which he died
does not mean you have to show it.
You know, like you didn't have
to carry on with the Skywalkers.
You were free.
They're always free.
They could always jump
to some other part of the galaxy
at a different time.
They could always do that.
Yep.
Yep.
They chose to do this.
It was awful.
You can do whatever they want.
There's only so much you can do
with these Skywalker family characters,
before it starts becoming really corny.
Yeah, they should have ended
with episode six.
If you look at the EU,
they have a huge family.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It goes both ways.
You could have had another 10,000 movies
and they could have been good
if you have the right people behind them.
Not even kidding.
Like you could be ridiculous.
Just keep the family going.
Keep changing everything up.
Don't not not like Last Jedi change.
Not that kind of change.
Over done.
But now you get it.
And it would take me
five times the length of the film
to really point out
every single thing that I loved about it.
And why?
Why didn't you do any of that
in the 46 minutes you had?
Just call people names.
It's good.
It's perfect.
This is all good.
There's nothing.
You don't understand film.
There's women in it.
There is women in it.
We did learn that.
Definitely women in it.
Of an episode nine
after the ridiculous fanboy meltdown
that went on as a result of this movie.
We definitely don't deserve
a whole trilogy from Rian Johnson.
We don't deserve that.
You're right.
We don't deserve that.
That would have helped me do that.
Why punish us this way?
What did we do?
But I really hope he follows through.
And if you get pissed off by it,
then you probably deserve
to be pissed off by it.
What?
What the fuck does that mean?
If you're going to get angry,
then you deserve to get angry.
It's like, okay.
Yes, I intend to.
God need the close-minded fans
and those who don't appreciate actual.
Close-minded fans.
You mean like that major league guy
or referring to someone else?
Quality filmmaking.
The series is moving on through the galaxy.
Wait, are those two categories?
Or is that the same category?
What, quality filmmaking?
And as well as the close-minded fans.
Which one is it?
It doesn't get more close-minded
than saying, what is he talking about?
Because you hate it.
Is he saying himself and others
or just these two categories
of people who are close-minded
and the other doesn't understand filmmaking?
It's a very specific demographic
that happens to absorb
a huge amount of people that he hates.
That's just the coincidence, okay.
Oh.
Without you.
Ryan Johnson.
And I'm down to give.
Oh man, imagine unironically thinking
that Ryan Johnson's like an amazing
writer-director that you want to see.
But oh.
Oh.
You know, I liked Brick.
Brick was okay.
I wouldn't give him the reigns of Star Wars
but I thought he was pretty cool in Brick.
I mean, I'll say what I've said all along.
If I was writing a movie
and they were like,
you can hire Ryan Johnson for free,
would you do it?
I'd be like, I might make him director
under supervision
but he can't touch the script.
I don't mind his visual style.
I think he's got an eye for some stuff there.
Maybe it's about how much money
he had as opposed to his eye
but god damn it,
keep him away from the script.
If he has a suggestion,
you go, no, Ryan, stop it.
Stop it.
Sit down.
And he's like, I'm sorry.
JJ, another chance too.
I think together,
these two will have really carved out
a solid trilogy.
Oh, I love the idea of a third film.
Actually, just anyone trying to make one
in this trilogy.
It's like, what do you do?
Where you go from two, I don't see.
Like, picture someone
who has no connection to this whatsoever.
They're just a good director
and someone goes,
yeah, you're making the third film
in a trilogy.
You go, oh, okay.
What's my setup here?
What are we dealing with?
And it's like, there's a galactic force
that's running around trying to kill
what remains of a good guy team.
They're like rebels
and you go, okay, how many?
And it's like 20 of them on a ship.
Like, okay, what else?
One of the bad guys is the son
of one of the good guys on the ship.
Yeah, okay, what else?
Well, that's about it.
And he's like, two movies
and that's what I'm working with.
It's like, well, you know,
you can make something out of that.
Go anywhere if you like.
And then the guy does what JJ
versus is going to do,
which is time skip.
I'm so ready to hear
what the time skips going to be.
What do you guys have a bet on?
There has to be.
I'm going with five years.
No, that's too much.
I think he's going to do five years.
I think he's going to have to do
a significant jump
to make everything restocked.
Considering the skip
from the first movie was a day
and a lot got accomplished in two days.
So I'd give it a year.
See, because I think the time skips
in the original trilogy
were two to three years, right?
Both between the films.
I think that's what it was.
The prequels was a 10 year jump
in the first one.
And then I think some in like
five years in the second one.
I'm not sure.
But obviously the time skip
between the first two
in the sequel trilogy
is possibly hours.
But I genuinely would like
fuck it.
I think one year is too little.
Two years is too little.
Ten years is too much.
I'm going to go with five.
I think maybe four.
You need a you need a job
to be able to do stuff.
Jenna said can time skips go backwards?
And now I'll close with my
absolute favorite line
in the entire film.
They were nobody.
Ah, okay.
Okay.
White cannibalism is underrated.
So reasons why Daisy Ridley
should date me.
Oh, my God.
What?
What are we watching now?
I mean, we don't we we're good.
I think we did it.
I'm all the proud of us.
And we have all of those
unsourced people to thank
that he just played for a good while.
It's time for us to put ourselves
in a therapy and go take a film course
so we can learn to watch movies.
Yeah, and women and women in movies.
Well, especially women in movies.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's on the mat racist.
Terraria the truth about console
1.3 review is another thing he's got.
The truth about fantasy star online
factorial underrated game review
the UFO video review of what the hell
is no consistency on his channel.
He's got motivation for 2017.
And there's a picture of Alex Jones.
Oh, he said that you can lately
was underrated.
I can join him in being controversial
on that one.
There you go.
Will he make will he make decent points, though?
Let's assume not.
You clearly is underrated
because everyone hates it.
It's perfect.
It's it's so good.
I mean, I played it.
It's I mean, you suck.
Yeah, we are.
We usually do the whole thing
where we're like, so what do you
think of the video overall?
But it's like, I think you guys
must have gotten the impression
of what we think of this video
throughout that.
Like, what a bad he showed his hand
in the first three minutes.
He was just slinging around insults
and just kept calling people names
and saying it's good.
It's great.
Shut up.
That was that was it.
I was thinking that he was going to
like, you know, come back
to those points later.
But he just he just kept going
up until the end.
You know, I think the first 10 minutes
were the most nauseous.
And I did and I did watch the first
five minutes months ago
and I just could not take anymore
because it was soon.
I just you had an idea
of what this guy was going to do.
And it got better as the video went on
just because his points
were weaker and weaker.
And you don't you don't want this guy
as your like poster child
for defending the films
when he's such an asshole.
Like, you don't want that.
You want to just write.
You want a guy who's actually sensible,
but he has to have sensible points
just right was like, well,
this is what movies are.
And you're like, dude, movies are a lot
more than what you think a movie is.
There's elements in this
that you cannot just say
you can't just wave away.
And he was reasonable,
but he didn't actually
he didn't establish facts
that were objective.
And even when he came on to your EFAP
or whatever, the four was EFAP, I think.
He at least had the opportunity
to have a dialogue.
So with this guy, it's impossible.
Like, you can't even talk to him.
Even if you were to make a nice little
letter and like, oh, yeah.
I mean, it goes without saying
he's welcome to ask to come on here
and we would totally have him on.
But judging from his attitude
in both Twitter and here,
he's going to say that
he would never come on here
because it's a waste of time.
We're all assholes.
I'm pretty sure that's going to be the attitude.
Yeah, I mean, I'm sometimes forgiving
towards these people, but I mean,
if you love something so much,
you shouldn't have a problem.
You really shouldn't.
You should be very proud and honest
of liking a book or story or anything
and saying, hey, I'm going to be sensible.
I'm going to be and if your sensibility
is a lack of intelligence,
that's fine.
I love things so much.
It's ooey goody gumdrops.
It's so saccharine flavored.
It's fantastic.
Great. That's your excuse.
That's a good enough reason.
And I'll show you the points
why that's unhealthy or why that's bad.
That's a fair argument to have with anything.
So and if they don't want to do that,
then I can't say they're a fan
because a fan is someone sits,
sits down and says, listen,
this is what I believe.
This is what art is to me.
And as ridiculous as it is,
that's part of the charm.
That's part of the element,
whatever you're trying to say.
And that's where these are the kinds
of conversations I want to have.
And it's very rare people.
And just because he's he has the time
and the video editing skills,
zoom in frames.
Spitting is really a shame.
And I wasn't expecting him to go that low.
There's a lot of a lot of
insults he threw there,
just kind of like, man,
that's just cruel.
Stop it. You know, like you
feel a bit awkward watching him do it
because you're just like, why?
Yeah, if you can just do
surface level observation.
Great. Okay.
I like this because it's pretty.
Okay. You like it because it's a spectacle.
Okay. Then that's it.
You cannot say the exact opposite.
There's so much depth here.
If you don't even know what depth is,
if you don't know what subtlety is,
or you don't know what what
characterizations is these things
that he's just throwing words around.
Like saying the guy was mentally unfit
and then pausing when a bit of saliva
came out of his mouth.
It's the kind of shit we're just like, wow.
Okay, making fun of how they say words.
Yeah, it's you don't you do that in arguments.
Especially the popular comment
about it making money was like, okay,
it's not a other thing.
It'll make your argument look weaker
if you have to go after stuff like that.
Typically, you just attack people
spelling or typos.
And they're like, yeah, that's why
when you look at just writer, Patrick,
he's like, okay, they're coming at it
from a writing slash medium perspective.
So it's a movie.
So we have to treat it as a movie.
How does that work?
As a watcher, seeing this going,
okay, I now have to think along these lines.
Obviously, he has his own lens
to shape that movie viewing experience.
But we still have to get that lens
from just right and say, okay,
what am I watching it right now?
Do I turn this part of my brain off?
What should I be doing here?
Because some movies, you have to do that.
Or some pieces of media.
They're not all emotional.
They're not all intellectual.
There's a certain aspect.
Intelligence you have to use
as opposed to others.
But you still have to suspend your disbelief.
You still have to keep that
as crazy or as it gets, as a ghost story
or as a slasher flick,
as the rules of that slasher flick become available,
you can't just start breaking the lore
and changing things around
and expect me to follow along.
It's not going to happen.
So when there's changes to lore,
which he didn't even talk about.
Obviously, he's not because the movie's perfect
in Last Jedi.
I mean, that has to be addressed.
And if they cannot agree on that,
then there's no point in having
this conversation with these people.
And that's what I really wanted to hear
from Josh Wright was like, listen.
I was going to say, I can't see a conversation
with this guy going to a place that's not toxic.
Like, you know, we try and we go,
so what about this?
And you just be like,
that doesn't need explaining, you idiot.
You'd be like, okay.
And this is the thing, right?
In a video, the scripted,
I wouldn't mind the insults
if only they came at the end of an argument,
as in like someone goes two plus two is five
and he goes two plus two is four, stupid.
It'd be like, okay.
Instead of playing out their argument
and then just going, you're an idiot.
Like, okay.
You're an idiot only after I've proven you're an idiot.
Not.
Yeah.
Is there something wrong with you?
I'm worried.
You should see a counselor.
It's like, come on, dude.
This is ridiculous.
And I am going to,
I'll start reading out these stupid chats.
It's going to be round two.
Millennium Phalalkan.
Sounds like a hipster kebab.
This is how far back we are.
Holy shit.
According to the asthma has about four minutes total
as in both films combined,
but we relate to her through actions
and her character, right?
It's funny.
I actually know that because it's in my script
for the new series.
I'm going to point that out because it's hilarious.
She has four minutes in total of screen time.
So both films, it's like,
fuck it up.
Post shot and killed from what I assume to be Finn's friend,
which leads to Finn defecting.
Oops.
Also, I appreciate these.
You perhaps take care of that.
I'm not sure what that was related to the detail,
but yes, that's true.
Who talks first?
I talk.
You talk five seconds later.
Villages slaughtered.
What films tone supposed to be JJ?
Yeah, that's definitely a fair criticism.
It doesn't matter how the bombs work.
They aren't real.
What matters is the fact that the writers
didn't know how they worked when they made the film.
It's just you just need enough for the audience
to follow along the fact that so many people
across the world when all those bombs dropping in space
was enough for them to realize as filmmakers,
they may need to have something to help us along
with that one, you know?
Because, of course, you know, can I believe that
there's technology that would propel these bombs down?
I'd be like, oh, yeah, I can believe that.
Just might need a bit of dialogue or something because,
man, as in JJ did the same thing in the scene
with a round head did in TLJ in regards to joke
to serious and vice versa.
Yeah, a tonal whiplash.
Yeah, absolutely.
Oh, I've been sent really far forward.
Damn it.
Oh, there we are.
Watch Ivan Ortega's re-edit trailer for this film.
I actually did see the trailer.
It was actually pretty neat.
Have you guys, do you know anything about that?
Yes, I saw it.
When Luke turns on the saber at his greed, I was like,
Well, he reversed the shot where he hands.
Yeah, which is genuinely what I think is a fix.
Just that just makes the scene so much better.
This guy defends Battlefront II.
Opinion discarded.
Low IQ corporate.
Chill detected.
Well, this is the thing.
You do not want to get caught defending that game
because of how predatory it was.
You just don't.
Doesn't matter what the mechanics are,
like how good the game was built.
It's just gouging people's wallets.
Han said it's Luke's map in TFA, though.
Does he actually say that?
I have covered the film a lot recently.
I don't remember Han saying it's Luke's map.
I know that he's.
I'm going to have to go back and look now.
Yeah, I'd have to check the dialogue.
Stupidity shields are failing.
Reroot all power to critical thinking now.
Oops.
Very good.
Tries to argue against sexism by being sexist.
I mean, yeah, that's, it was really awkward.
It's like pretty much.
The Wibbit or ICAD, you guys.
It's like, ooh.
Don't you want to look at women?
What's wrong with you?
Aren't you, are you gay?
I'm worried about you, man.
You should go to therapy.
He got demoted to third in command.
When Leia was out of commission,
he becomes de facto second in command.
It makes zero sense that he doesn't know the plan.
Agreed.
Card is a better Star Wars movie than The Last Jedi.
Of course.
Moral of this video.
The Last Jedi would have been a lot better
if Leia had just gone to every character
and said, shut the fuck up, do what I say.
Oh, you get the A-lock.
Yes, because she knew the plot as well, apparently.
Maybe I'm insane, but at least I'm not a Mary Sue.
Fair enough.
When do you when you think that everyone
to wakes up to how bad The Last Jedi is,
people turn against the prequels.
Why not this dumpster fire?
There's more hatred for this film
at its point in release compared to The Phantom Menace had.
Like, The Last Jedi is probably the most
controversial and hated Star Wars film in existence.
I would.
I would argue, I think some people would argue
that the reason being is because there weren't like,
you know, internet criticism didn't like,
really blow up back then as it does now.
Yeah.
Like, I know the internet was around,
but I think like YouTube was a far lesser beast
than it was before,
and people weren't able to talk about it
The takeaway needs to be that there are a lot of people
who still think the prequels are the best films
in the entire saga.
There's still people, there will always be people
who think The Last Jedi is amazing,
but there's a shit ton of people who hate this film.
Like, it's not a small amount.
Well, hundreds of thousands, at least,
just on Rotten Tomatoes.
I was so angry.
JJ didn't even give a quick answer for her to expand on
instead of the stupid porn offline she gave us.
I'm not 100% sure of what that's referring to.
Like Good Will Hunting, it's not your fault.
Damn it, I'm not sure who that's referring to either.
Is it JJ?
Jar Jar Biggs says more development than any character
in the sequel trilogy.
In a way.
Was it 99?
Jesus.
Yeah, the video gamer said Phantom Menace was 1999.
There was no YouTube yet.
He's absolutely right.
Yeah, yeah, I agree.
The Phantom Menace would have been shredded faster
had it come out at a time The Last Jedi did.
God, I totally forgot it was 99.
I'm blown away.
I think they would have actually altered,
or Lucas would have listened to fans
and he would have altered things.
He did cut Jar Jar significantly past Phantom Menace.
It's in both.
It was in Fierce and South Park.
I think season seven episode tile was Aspen.
Fair enough.
Swords fighting expert said duels in PT better.
I mean, if that's true, that's interesting.
I'd like to hear the perspective.
Wait, say that again.
I think the message was a sword expert said
that the duels in PT were better.
I mean, the fact that the choreography is so borked
in the Kylo Rey fight.
I could believe that.
Glad to have someone finally caught one of these live
and glad to see we're witnessing
Olympic level mental gymnastics.
Yes, they deepened the story with Canto Bight
by the level of a kiddie pool.
I don't mind themes being added,
but it needs to be done well.
It's just so on the nose.
And this is the thing.
I've never been a fan of the theme in The Last Jedi
for all the reasons of contradictions,
but the fact that Yoda actually says the theme
is really awkward to me.
You don't do that in movies.
You do not spell things out as if your fan base
or your audience is completely stupid.
Yeah.
The theme is the general content.
The overall, like the major theme is like-
I suppose for us to talk about instead of going
remember the scene where he said that, wasn't that true?
Yeah.
There we are, yeah.
Ryan-
You're doing something wrong, yeah.
Ryan's script is so freaking contrived
and this twerp is defending that.
Wow, this guy's a complete dolt.
I like the guy who went off on socialism.
Frank and millennials.
Millennial Falcon is gonna stick with Malcolm.
Luke is like a drunk biker.
That's why Rey won.
He's definitely off his game.
Yoda was high.
That's why he burned the tree.
I was at a wedding.
Someone in this film was good.
I may have exploded and caused a scene.
Oh, someone said it was good at a wedding.
I mean, I was on the Drunken Peasants podcast
two days ago and Billy in the Fridge said that it's like
a really good film and if you don't enjoy it,
it's more than likely because you don't get it.
And I was just like, I'm just not gonna say anything.
They got rid of the mask because the actor hated it.
I didn't know that he hated it.
That could be true, but I remember reading
or watching a clip where Ryan Johnson said
one of the first things he wanted to do
is get rid of the mask.
That's a really lame excuse if that's the truth
because there's extras in that film
who have way more prosthetics and makeup.
And I mean, dude, you're a top ticket actor
doing a main role.
And didn't Mark Hamill hate the direction Luke was going?
So why didn't they let him get what he wanted?
Oh, and someone at Windfall pointed out.
So you know he's at that point in the video
where he's like, what did you want?
Luke to get his head chopped off?
It's like, well, didn't Obi-Wan die
by quote unquote getting his head chopped off?
Like, you know, just the lightsaber goes through
and then the cloak goes down.
We don't need to see his head actually get chopped off
of blood going through it.
The death took away Luke's chance for redemption.
I agree with that.
The Last Jedi had a check offs gun scenario
with Luke's ship.
Yeah, it showed us it and then decided against it.
Almost like they had a plan,
but then they gave it and didn't do it.
I don't know.
Um, everything made sense.
Like Phasma teleporting?
Yeah.
Well, like I said, the one you cannot deny
is the fact that the knife disappears.
It's not a thing you can defend.
This film is my new favorite movie
because it pissed other people off.
Yeah.
Go and spit on Mark Hamill's ideals
and wishes a little bit more.
Well, mysteriously, that wasn't in this video.
You know, acknowledgement of Mark Hamill's comments.
It would have been awkward.
After Luke-
A lot of people go to it too, so.
Yeah, that's true.
After Luke, I was hopeful because I detest JJ.
Well, the aggregate of the car
that blamed millennials for the movie
is a good, entertaining YouTuber.
His channel is Worth a Buy.
Everyone should check him out.
Well, there you go, guys.
If you want to check him out,
he's called Worth a Buy, apparently.
Try that in Star Wars.
You might be able to find him, I guess.
A real quick super chat.
Sorry.
Any opinions on Deracine?
Yeah, that's a PS4 VR game.
Oh, I have not played it.
No, I don't know what it is.
It's an adventure game.
You know, if you're going to do an adventure title,
pretty, pretty cool.
So you just have to-
Yeah, it's a really cool video.
Just check it out.
Then you got these TLJ videos
have literally gotten worse and worse.
Just right.
I hate everything.
Jonathan McIntosh, Patrick,
Willard's Movie Bob, Major Lee, Steady the Clyde.
I guess.
I don't know how I would order them, honestly.
I think the best one out of all of them-
Oh man, what's bottom rung?
I was about to-
Who's the best one?
It'd be like, probably just right?
Because it sounded like he was really trying
to make it make sense in the-
I, yeah, not the points he was making,
but the way he, because he was a lot,
he's the most rational.
Like we can take him seriously.
It seems sincere.
Yeah.
He really did actually make an attempt
to change people's mind calmly.
And then as for worst,
Jonathan McIntosh was pretty bad
because he basically sold it as like-
Yeah, that he's like,
I'm going to talk about sexism
because that's his thing.
So we expect that from him,
but Patrick's was pretty bad.
This was worse.
I think this was-
Yeah, this one was really bad.
I don't know, man.
It's interesting to think about
who's got the shittiest deals.
Wasn't Patrick's video shorter?
Movie Bob was really dumb.
It was just gobbledygook.
Yeah.
And this one was just stupid.
Patrick's video was shorter, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
That's a plus, I guess.
And less of it.
Yeah.
That is, I think we can wrap up there,
but first of all,
thank you both very much
for keeping me company
while we got through the rest
of this horror show.
First up, I mean,
smart boy, do you want to give a shout
out to yourself in terms of
what is it you offer
and why should these people subscribe?
I'm actually doing
a co-tour plot analysis
of the first,
it's the old Republic video game.
And halfway done.
If you ever are disenchanted
by Star Wars
or you really love Star Wars,
give my channel a view.
We're doing that
till the end of December.
So it all done before Christmas.
And I'll be doing some super chats
with whoever wants to come on.
I think I've got some
some big new YouTubers
and if Mahler wants to come on in
for any kind of reason
we can come up with,
we'll be sure to get him on.
Yeah, I actually did a stream
with you recently.
So if you only want to see stuff
in relation to me with him,
then you can actually go find
that on his channel.
So there you go.
Go check it out.
And then I guess I don't know
if you want to say anything, Gavin.
It's completely up to you.
You have the microphone.
Yeah, so my channel is known
as Desboshit.
I'm not actually a critic
of any type or anybody
who's particularly like
made a name for himself
as an analytical person.
I do like Garry's Mod animations
or at least I did years ago.
And if you're asking whether
or not you should subscribe to me,
no, you should not
because I haven't uploaded anything
in a couple of years now.
And I feel really shitty about it.
And I feel like if you're really
going to subscribe to me
and if you like GMOD stuff,
wait until I actually upload something.
Then you can subscribe
if you really want to.
But right now, I don't really feel
like I deserve it
till I get my ass in gear.
And it's kind of it's been rough.
So well, I mean, you've been great today.
You'll be dragged back on.
If it is.
Oh, absolutely.
This has been fun.
See, this has actually
been a lot of fun for me.
I've always wanted to show up
onto this because it's, you know,
I've really taken a liking
to this sort of thing.
It's a nice little hobby.
And so lost my train of thought there.
But yeah, but it's great.
It's this was fun.
It was this was a good time.
The timing was really great, though,
because I haven't actually
had a day off in a couple of weeks now.
It's been it's been kind of rough,
but I just managed to secure myself
enough free time to make it on.
And it's been great.
So next time you make another show,
I will make time
to do it again, hopefully.
I mean, yes, it's it's been so
majorly.
Thank you so much for your video.
It was endlessly funny
and just so great to just experience
what it's like to be so vehemently
in defense of the last Jedi,
because you have to forego logic.
Logic is just such a horrific enemy to you.
It's like this encroaching monster
that you have to get away from
because it's just so annoying.
Like would have come
from the School of Patricorns, I imagine.
But of course, if you want to jump
on this podcast and correct the record
and say that, you know,
you want to get your piece done,
you're always welcome to come on.
It would be wonderful, I'm sure.
If you guys want to catch
this podcast in full,
it's going to be re-uploaded
to my second channel,
which is called Moolah.
You can find it that way
or I'll just spam it in chat
so you guys can subscribe to that
if you want to see this
and it comes out.
And obviously,
thanks to Rags and Doomcock,
they were they were they were wonderful
as well, but they don't have the stamina
to make it to five hours.
Let's just be honest.
It's just amazing that you guys
managed to do that.
But we'll gladly have Doomcock back on.
Hopefully, in the future,
he was a lot of fun too.
But yeah, that's about it.
Is there anything you guys
would like to say?
Thanks for having me, guys.
Appreciate it.
This was great.
I had fun.
Well, thank you both.
And thank you, chat.
Thank you for the generous donations
from everybody.
Hope you enjoyed
and we will see you next time.
Yes.
