You
You
You
Hi, hello, hello there. Hi, how are you?
What the fuck hello, hi, I
Was laying down as one does
Getting a little getting a little horizontal, you know, yeah, just
lounging reclining and I got kind of tired and I fell asleep then when I woke up everything was different it was later and
There was light outside and it was time for efap
Oh
Anyway, fuck you. You're such a massive. I think that's fair enough
You
You
And
Discord is on screen
Everything is running as intended and now I'll unmute for these friendly people in discord to hear me
Hey, you guys can't be talking you ruined everything
I'm kidding. I had you muted is fine
Okay, just to make you panic. Oh
What do you think of that intro isn't it wonderful
I was just saying the J that it'd be funny if I got flagged for copyright for the music
I did I did test it up. I did test it
So any god, I re-uploaded it and it was monetized with no troubles
I was like, I guess this just works the way it does wonderfully
This is efap 50 minus 1
this is efap dash 1 is dash 2 dash 3 and
That's it. That's that's how it's gonna work. How are you guys doing today? People have already noticed. There's no rags
He's not around yet
Rag rags is on the way. We've got literally 24 hours. Don't worry. He'll make up for it by being here
It'll be fine
important thing is that I start as soon as possible because I've got to stay awake for that long because the last thing I
Can do is go to sleep and leave the stream on that would be terrible
so
If you fall asleep, does the stream just continue indefinitely until you turn it off? Is that how that works?
I guess it does. But uh
Does it cap out or does it just keep going? I still haven't tested those rules. They're scary rules
But um, yeah
How do you test it without everybody figuring out what the plan is, you know
Exactly. Everybody's just gonna sneak on and then start watching which isn't allowed
It's a
Great for us is what it is. Um, so I mean well before we get you know, like into anything
Cuz we could just talk about a few things. I know everybody wants me to talk about how
Spooderman has been taken away from someone by someone
There's a lot of discussion as to who's that fault I saw the Jade you hate Sony or do you hate both of them?
I remember reading things on Twitter and being like, oh no
I hate whoever's in the wrong. I hate the bad guy. I saw CJ was like ripping into
Disney I think on Twitter
Everybody's got their own take
I'm literally just confused. I was like so what happened exactly and a lot of people will be like talking about
Stuff in vague terms, but I follow high top on Twitter and he seemed to have a breakdown
So if I can read that yeah, yeah, he had like a little breakdown of what happened. Oh
No, not a mental breakdown he's sure anything was gonna set him off no more MCU spider-man
He'd just be like cool. So this is this is what I understand about it from the perspective of mr. High top
Reporting on it spider-man. The character is not owned by Sony
He is owned by Marvel which means Disney that means the comics the games the toys the merchandise from the movies, etc
All owned by Marvel Disney. They get the bulk of the money
Sony currently has the film rights as they've had since 1999 when Marvel sold them to Sony
They have financed owned and distributed all of spider-man's films
The Marvel deal meant that the MCU team Kevin Feige, etc would serve as a creative lead on the MCU spider-man films
Sony would pay for the films Marvel Studios would pay a huge part in making play a huge part in making them and in return
Sony would give Disney around 5% of the box office as well as allow Spidey to appear and team up the movies
While renegotiating the terms of their deal Disney suggested they pay
They start paying for half of the movie and receive half of the box office of Sony's most valuable IP
I believe it was implied that if the deal was made they would begin to connect the Sony cinematic universe to the MCU
Interesting. Isn't that what they wanted?
That's what Sony wanted. It wasn't what Marvel I guess initially wanted, but then venom made a lot of money
So maybe things have changed
Well, apparently Sony was like you can't have half the profits to our most valuable franchise because you're Disney and you make gazillions
How about we would negotiate further and then Disney said no, we're not interested in negotiating further
Does this mean that Sony took Spidey no
They have owned the film rights for years. Does this mean anything will change for spider-man outside of the movies?
Probably not because Disney owns
Already owned spider-man as they have had for years
What we can expect to change is that spider-man is probably not going to be in team up MCU movies, I guess
Yeah, that's the impression again anyway, I mean I thought the idea is yeah from what I know
They're already intending to make another they've got two more Tom Hall and spider-man movies planned
So the fact that he's not attached to the MCU doesn't actually bother me that much
I guess it's um like who we miss him out on
Well, yeah cuz I'm like, oh no you won't be able to hang out with Captain Marvel like Panther
Dr. Strange, I guess
I was thinking of like, oh now those films now the team up movies are gonna be worse not like
Team up movies are already gonna be tis me because it's a team that don't cares about right now. I still don't have faith
The thing is like they've lost their main superhero again. Yeah
What's the plan moving forward? I think like is it I don't know. I think they're doing this as a power move
I think they're testing Sony and they're gonna there's no way they want to give up spider-man. I
Think well, I mean the thing is is cuz people like Oh Sony's being greedy. It's like really are they though?
you know
Cuz um, I mean 50% 5050 like that's yeah, but there are some
Yes, but the money that they would make from fully financing the film would make up for it like cuz I mean
Spider-man far from home made like a billion dollars and it's like oh it was hot
It's like you lose 500 million dollars. It's not worth it
Really like if you were working for Sony you wouldn't want to take that deal
But the thing is is I kind of want spider-man to still be part of it
Just so that he can team up and they can't appear on them and still be so well integrated
Yeah, I don't know how I feel about it
I guess we'll just see what happens going forward because I actually the first time I heard of it
I was like us probably still you know, like they could probably still have a deal down the line a couple months later
They go they have really, you know, blah blah blah
Yeah, who really knows um, I'm not mad at anybody because I don't even know that it's a bad thing
Specifically like that. We know that we can't have certain things now
But I I'm all concerned with them nailing spider-man movies rather than making sure he can hang out with other Avengers
Because it's rare that we get to have that considering the entire library of spider-man movies we have I guess
Are they more bad movies and good movies or is it a draw now?
I think it might be actually a draw right like one two
Both of these movies and no so it's actually it's now more positive than negative when you include spider-verse
Oh, well from our perspective anyway, a lot of people obviously don't like
Don't like yes
People don't like spider-verse
Mm-hmm
There are people who don't like spider-verse a couple people sent me that video from is it David Stewart who's done a video on
Why he doesn't like it
No
It's kind of I don't see how you could argue that it's not good
But okay, I think I looked at it for a few minutes
I think one of the arguments was like the animation was like getting tired after a few minutes
I think was one of his points. There's more suitable for a short film. This is the thing
It was it was the kind of video. I was like, oh you're gonna need to have like a lot of discussion on to explain exactly what
What all the points because that's such a sensitive topic people adore that film and rightly so
Who also doesn't like Civil War because I think I recognize. Yes. He's the guy who did a video on Civil War as well
Right. Okay, that's more understandable. There's a lot of people who hate Civil War or at least don't like it. I
Just I didn't know anybody didn't like spider-verse. I know that's weird. But yeah
Rightly thought it was awesome because it is
It's a very likable movie
Well, it's funny though cuz it's the least successful at the box office spider-man film like which it is the least successful
Which is a bomber. Hope that doesn't discourage them
No, they're making a sequel they said
And plus they won like the Oscar which maybe that was I think that's the first time Sony Pictures
sending animations one an Oscar so that might encourage them to keep going I
Also heard that they were gonna like what like water brothers saw that movie and they're like we're gonna do Batman beyond like that
It is like you just why can't you like come up with an idea yourself?
Why do you have to keep looking at other people and go? Let's do that
That yeah every DC product recently, isn't it?
Well, it's been that way since like cuz what was the last time they were trailblazers Nolan
Like the dark night trilogy was probably the last time that they were really travel
Would you call Man of Steel an attempt to do Superman in the Dark Knight style? Yes, absolutely
it was it was uh
It was bad
What was what was some of the lines the design had
One of the highlight right cuz I hadn't seen it since it was in cinemas
That's how long ago it was and free was showing me the battle scenes again. I can't
in a in a world where we've dealt with the boys and
And Civil War and all these films about like the repercussions and the evil of superheroes. Holy fuck
Oh, yeah, like an entire skyscraper just collapses into the streets. It's like, oh, all right
Guess you're all dead. Oh, it was insane. Like I completely forgot how much devastation there was
Like, you know when he when Zod does the laser eyes, it's like he's sort of holding his head
But he can move his right, right? So surely if you can just look at the family and they're dead
Yeah, maybe I don't know how laser eyes work, but he was holding Zod's head
And for some reason that means he can't he could only slightly move the lasers. It's like can't you just look anywhere?
I don't know. I don't know how laser eyes work. I'm not an alien. What would I know?
Also, hello alex. How'd you do? Hello
it's funny we got like
one of the main host guy and three of the most like
Typically guest and guests what a strange intro. We are the most frequent guests, right?
I think so
I think you three have them. We still don't know because efab.me is still down. I'm still waiting for um
Contact me person who makes that if you still are able to
If they watch this show
I assume that the only reason they wouldn't have contacted me is because they don't
Watch this show and they haven't heard that i'm looking for them
But I can't remember what their name was and I don't know what their twitter handle is
Somebody mentioned it in the discord, but then I was like, oh, can you like give me the actual username?
Like oh they're not here. It's like oh
rip
Yeah
So I I hear that the guy's pc exploded but I don't know if it's true or not
What like literally burst into flames or well presumably well assuming this story is true
He had a pc running well hosting the website and then it went I don't know
I don't know. Oh wait for you and for oh apparently efab.me is back up
Oh, what the fuck
well
Still contact me person. I can talk to you about some stuff. Oh, it's updated to episode 49 as well
who
Yeah, and the top three appearances of fringy j and smiler al how about that?
gay
Big gay that's bullshit with you know
Ooh mel's got six mel's catching up
Wait, yeah mel's drawn with smil. Al you gotta fuck up metal, dude
But I'm still
I'm still number one, right?
I'm still the winner. Yes. Oh, yes
I want I want my guess because it's kind of like per party. I'm on multiple parts today. Cheers
I wanted to do a shout out because um, it's been it's been maintained for a while now
And it got an art update recently, but there is a subreddit
that's all about
efab slash my content, I guess and uh
the guy who did the art for um
the thumbnails
Of of efab as well as the over the little like plating you can see on on the screen right now
He's done like an art overview for um for that subreddit as well. Maybe I can just show it that would make sense. Uh
What it currently looks like I guess if I can go a bit better, but yeah the um
This is it you could go here. There's a link in in the description, but it basically just like another place for discussion. Uh
Check it out if you like reddit if you don't maybe it's not for you
But either way, it's a pretty cool little community. A lot of people hate reddit and you know, it's fair
Right that can be frustrated
It was good of you to tell people to not go to reddit if they don't like reddit
I think that's not a controversial take imo. I think that I can get away with that one
You know, no one's gonna judge me too harshly for saying that. Um
Yeah, so i'll probably mention it maybe a few times throughout this stream
But it's at the top of the description check it out. Um, get it get it get it going a bit bit stronger
Maybe get a few more people in there talking about more things. Um, I check it out. Uh semi regularly and I get a couple of like
you know, I see there's another source for like memes or videos to baby cover as well as my twitter and
Uh the discord there's lots of things I have to cover
Which also explains that the lack of memes throughout the past few episodes. I've got a huge backlog that we're more than excited to get to
because
This is exactly one year since the first episode of efap before it was even called efap. How wonderful
We um, yeah, it's cool
Literally 365 days. It's it's weird. There's been that long and how far we've gotten how
How amazing? Um
I understand the irony that neither rags or wolf is here, but there's nothing I can do about this. I uh
Like I said rags will be here. Uh soon and as far as i'm aware
I don't I don't think wolf is going to be appearing for those who are
uh
Intently curious on that one. Um, he's still like I did cover it in the
I want to say efap 48 that's up right now
If you want to look at the beginning of that stream, I just go through everything that's going on. Um
But obviously he's going to be referenced a lot in in these memes and stuff and uh,
Hopefully he gets to see this at some point and he'll enjoy watching them as well
Um
He he probably get to see it because I know he watched the stream, uh on saturday
Hold on because halfway through the stream
He sent me a message saying gay male docking
Oh
good
Did he approve of such action or was he just stating it
He just stated it. That was that was the entire text of the message
hold on
um
So this is this is gonna be split into three this stream this whole stream because uh, it caps out at 12 hours
So i'm gonna go with eight eight eight
um
And it'll just be we go offline for at most half an hour
Just to recalibrate and maybe get in a few different guests or whatever this startup should be
Kind of quiet
It should be the end of this part and the in the second part is where a lot of people might flood in
I'm kind of hoping we get away with you know, having people pop in at
Completely convenient times to spread everyone out but
You know how it is british evening time and american midday
That's probably going to be when the most people show up
So we will do everything we can uh, there's a lot of people in the thumbnail for this and it's mainly just all of the guests
It's not a guarantee that any of them will or will not show up. So
You know calm your excitement isms. I love the idea. That's a guarantee that they will not show up
Yeah, the whole list of people who will not be here
Um
Yeah, uh, we do that and so
We're gonna I guess we were gonna start with memes, but since rags isn't here we're gonna have to sort of
probably
Either talk about some stuff for a bit or i'll probably throw in a video for us four instead. Um
Something funny what are the topics of the day? Oh, we got a shit ton
I'm gonna just basically just gonna i'm gonna look at my list and be like hmm
Um, so don't worry about that. We'll be fine. Uh, the the i was gonna say the the fandom menace so like germany and uh
aether van skiver and
That star wars guild a bunch of others and stuff. Uh, they they ended up responding to major lee's video on them
um
And uh, I want to i want to show you uh, something that the people in discord were talking about. I thought it was really funny
Just pull it up
Because like basically for anybody who doesn't know major lee made a video on them
It's like a whole
Group, but apparently he got a whole bunch of shit wrong including like who's even in their collective
Like he kept referencing people who aren't even remotely to do with them
And um, this is one of the comments on major lee's video. I thought it was funny
Oh shit, bro. I love your fandom menace video though
It's a shame mauler and his foolish supporters come along came along to misunderstand it and then bring hundreds of toxic fans
To attack and leave awful comments screw those guys
Us true fans will save star wars
It's interesting it's interesting that they imply that star wars needs saving
Yeah, you'd think that they'd be like no, it's fine
Maybe they they're saying to save it from people like us
All right, nah, it's a Freudian slip Freudian slip
I just like as well the uh
When people refer to us as toxic now, we can't help but be like the toxic brood
There's no way of not looking at it that way. It's great. Uh
So yeah, they did they did uh fine. It was funny
I watched a lot of their uh response to major lee and they were just laughing at him like they couldn't believe a lot of his
Approaching his points and stuff and I was like, ah, I remember that
I was fucking efap. Honestly like efap 13 or something
A long time ago that that happened
Oh, I really wish rags were here actually because I could have opened with the efap quiz
I can't wait to do the efap quiz and it'd be good to do it. Well, um, you know, efap aficionados like fringy and jaya here
The they they know all the answers too
Like I said, i'm hoping rags is only going to be like a couple more minutes or so. I don't know either way
I guess um
I'll judge it by how long who how long have you got? Uh al how long have you gone?
Uh, what time is it? Ah, it's two o'clock about two ish now there. Um
Gonna go around
Uh six ish, I'd say. All right, so we've got some time there in fact, then. Oh, I got so many choices
I think uh, because again once rags gets here, I want to do memes but until then I guess we should just cover a video and and
I'm thinking I mean we could open with the um with with the with the jim stealing video. I'll watch your
recommendations
well
I can't the some of them are surprises
One of them requires rags to be here. If he was here, I would have I would have put a different one on but he's not so
Um, yeah, we could open with that. So this is the you know, this is a good one to start on for many reasons
actually, I was just thinking because um
the way
In which me and alex used to spend a lot of time together back in the day. This is back when
Even like years before I I was probably streaming on twitch. I think or it was around the same time
Yeah, no, no, it was before even then for
While watching like youtube videos and shit like about people stuff
Um, so what we would do is watch videos in we were just I remember finding watch together
We were like there's got to be some kind of
In browser thing that can sync a youtube video because we would just we would watch youtube videos separately and then talk about either
How how they had good points or bad points. We were like want to watch them together
it's like the most proto of proto efaps ever because um
We actually talked
About how it would probably work as a show
Like you could probably do a stream where we're pausing other people's content to discuss their points and use them as a vehicle
to sort of explore the topics further or
And maybe even promote them
Um, well, there's a funny thing is the this was one of the videos that we watched
I don't want to say first, but this was one where we were just like blown away. No, this one just sticks out because
I well, there was no audience, but I was just laughing so much that I would annoyed everyone if uh
upon the first take because I wouldn't stop laughing like coughing my lungs over there if it goes it I don't know
It tickles me pretty well. Is anyone we only got three in here right now. Is anyone not joined or
Oh, yeah, I haven't
Bad human I just like sort of anxiety then I did join but it's like I didn't skip on edge then
I was looking at it. Like wait, have I joined looking at what's together?
Is this the correct link
uh
So yeah, this one is um from our good pal jim sterling who I don't think we've ever covered on efap
Uh, not that there isn't reason to yeah, I know because the other one we were supposed to cover from him
We haven't done in a while is his objective review
Because it's him making fun of how there's no such thing as well
He thinks there is such a thing as being objective
But he he resorts to its only statements like the film was created by blah blah blah. It is, you know a game
About those terrible steam games that he reviewed, you know, the ones that without merit only subjectively bad only subject
I don't believe that if I I don't yeah, I don't believe that he would honestly, I don't believe he would say that so
um
Yeah, like like I said, it's I don't
We'd have to watch his video on objectivity I guess but um
I just realized that the the thing didn't I correct this last efap? Why is it like out of thingy now as well?
Give me a second to uh, what's wrong?
Well, it's it's slightly out and I can't have that it looks it looks wrong
You can see the you can see like the background of watch together. That's that's just
It's so beyond unprofessional and i'm so fucking sorry
Oh my god
Oh, wait, is it go up out of that? Oh, right. That's a part of his video. What the hell
What's with the bar at the top of his video?
Oh, unless that's a part of his video. Oh, is that just
But actually the back no i'm pretty sure yeah, there's there's a background there was a background on it
Well, either way
Well, that's not that's not the toughest video because the title is below that I think you might want to fix it once
Wait, no, because
I've got a different frame up to you. I've got a different frame up to you. That is there on
Your one but not on my one
There we go. Now I could definitely tell
What the fuck is this this is the time to have have you never seen a jim steler video no, wow
What the hell mate? I don't know who this person is al he
Al he hasn't seen he hasn't seen lord of the rings. How old are you?
three
What
Oh man, okay
He's uh, I I don't even know like what this like like
Do a break or like to like?
To get people caught up to speed with jim sterling
Yeah, I guess he's uh, he's an advocate for consumer
Like ethical consumer practices in in in the gaming industry, I guess and
Simultaneously a reviewer of games now. He's terrible when it comes to reviewing games
The only times he's typically on point is when he reviews something that's so dog shit that no one would say it's good
Um, yeah, he famously gave ukulele at two
Um what he gave sinewa's sacrifice, uh hellblade a one I believe
He got so much backlash for that he gave breath a while didn't he give that a seven or something?
Yeah, that's pretty low
He had to make the video explaining why he did because surely that would be the review. Yeah, you'd think so, right?
You think
There was there was a bit of backlash about that too
Yeah, yeah, but I I kind of find it frustrating when like game critics get defensive when people
Criticize their critiques, you know, they're like, oh, which is my opinion is like, uh, stop it
Yeah, well the one thing he's um infamous for is that he's all for doxxin as long as it's
against his enemies
If you doxxin always friends, you know that you know, that's uh, you know
Disgusting tactic blah blah blah blah. But if you if he
If it's against bad people or bad characters, then it's you know, it's justified, you know
Yeah, are you referring to the he was on a thing with adam sesla?
Adam sesla said don't give me that free speech thing
You have free speech and I have the right to find your address and put it out there and the audience cheered
Like seals and it's just like wow
This is horrible
This is so horrible
Yeah, he's so he's definitely a controversial figure, um, I can't remember that impression
Don't get me wrong. He's not all bad. Let no
People give him shit to say like oh he keeps bringing up the same crap over and over
But he's like one of the few youtubers or people who have a big enough influence and and you know coverage
To actually bring up these issues like well to for people to be aware of them
um
But yeah, he's got some hot takes and this one was always the hottest of takes for the longest time for me and cow el mola
yeah, uh, so context this video is about uh
VR and this was this was around the time vr was starting to really uh,
sort of wind up with the vibe of being out for about a year or two, I think from this video and um
This is gonna be jim's
Take and this is the other element of jim still in that is simultaneously endearing and annoying. So
He plays a character that is never wrong and is almost a soothsayer when it comes to like elements of the industry
Whenever he's right, he will show clips and be like see predicted it. I was right and then the millions of times
He's been wrong about anything. He'll just hopefully
Remember that people forget about that
Now as you guys may know VR has started and stopped several times and so
It makes sense that you might say that this new set of vr stuff was going to fail because vr always fails
And I guess with that I will just play the video and see how it goes
Yeah
The jimquisition last featured virtual reality in the episode vr troopers
January where we talked about the people who were determined to see
Hang on why is the why has he got okay a red background with a white circle and a black logo in it
Why not?
It evokes certain historical imagery. Oh
I think that's all purpose
Was yeah, yeah, yeah, I could actually know it's from all the origins of that. I actually don't know it's myself
Um, and he's changed that a couple times in terms of like how it's presented
It's not super close, but it's like if I saw that in a movie i'd be like
Oh this this person is supposed to be like a nazi, right?
Well the boglin certainly give that impression of my stereo
Um, what's the what's the thing next to him the uh thing on a stand I have no idea
What is that? Oh, it actually looks like a vive camera
Oh, maybe I don't actually know if that if I still think it is I don't know
And the people who were determined to see vr succeed I said I was taking a wait and see approach
I waited I saw and
I'm not impressed
at all
By vr. So before we let him go on uh, this video will be super interesting because now we've aged much further than
Whatever he's going to say as a prediction in this video
So we'll have information but what's your guys is not not that you have a lot of uh
Information on it. I think alex we're going to know the best out of the four of us on this but vr
How is it doing right now?
um
Okay, right like it's doing okay. Yeah, as far as I know it's got its own market
It's uh, it's a higher echelon of costs, but there are enough people supporting it that it's continued and it's still developing
There are vr games that still come out fairly regularly like it hasn't been abandoned. You know what I mean?
It's not like the connect. Oh, so
Yeah, so you got vive or well your htz and they've got the vibe and they've got the vive pro
And you've also got obviously facebook slash oculus now
And then you've also got steam with their own valve with their own headset now as well
Um, it is also still niche like certainly and also you've also got, you know, a vr on the other consoles, too
um, it is niche but it is it is slowly growing and it has been for the last, you know, a couple of years now since the
An oculus rift and the original vive came out
Um, so this is this is around when they did come out for about a year and a half two years when you know
When jim's video here is covering it now
however
uh
Not well, yeah
I don't want to spoil it, but he was something then and he's wrong now
I was gonna say like I know a lot of like big streamers and youtubers who are still fully involved with vr and um
there's a lot of uh
Soviet womble was playing vr when he talked about my videos. Someone sent me a clip of it. I was like, oh, no way
Um, it's like a whole counterstrike go, uh community that play with vr only and then there's the whole beat saber thing
But it's like a shit ton of people love beat saber
Oh, yeah, there's there's also just simulators like for you know, flight simulators, uh racing sims, you know, even space
I gotta imagine uh, vr would be really fun for sort of cockpit based. Yeah. Yeah
Anything where like, you know
The the the enthusiasts would go into the point of like making their own chairs for it because you know
I know people who will make racing chairs for well racer sims
Um, once you get to that level. Yeah a headset is like, you know, the most complimenting uh piece of kit you're gonna have really
The potential is through the roof with the uh, honestly, I don't yeah i've always I don't I feel like
the the fact that vr has been such a pervasive sort of
It's probably not a it's it's more like it's such a reoccurring thing in science fiction and stuff
It's just got such an appeal. Oh, we're going there. There's no way we're not going there. Like that's gonna happen
Of course right now it's still in the phase where like we're all still waiting for that one killer app where
you know one thing to sell millions if well, not that I don't think it's even possible right now because I don't you know
how many have been sold but
We've still got that thingy
Well, I know I know people are saying in the comments already that yeah
There's a few good games here and there and then some some of these games are worth replaying like, you know on repeat
But another one's, you know, like there's like resin evil seven that had a vr. Um
addition
and although well, I don't know who likes resin evil seven here, but
And so somebody made a video on it once upon a time I can't remember who but uh
Yeah, like there's only certain games that really benefit from it. And then
Well, like we said, we're all still waiting for that one
Make one game. It made exclusively for via or intentionally the kind of thing that we're like
Oh, you should give you are just to play x
Yeah, yeah
And until that happens, it's still it's still growing in well in popularity
But it's still really niche or or gimmicky if you want to call it that but I don't I don't I would say it's inevitable
For it to be mainstream. It's just gonna happen one day. It'll be cheap enough to be mainstream. It'll be impressive enough
yeah, that's generally well the the general consensus with a lot of it is that it's gonna just
As soon as they keep pushing new units the older unit's going to be more cheaper to pick up
um
also, the problem that is going on is with the
rift and vive
And valve as well while doing their own thing
there's all this there's a well, they're all battling for exclusivity of certain games like oculus rift are doing like and they
To a lesser extent what epic games are doing where they've been buying out um indie devs for like, oh, you know
If we give you x money, you'll put your game only on our vr headset platform
um
It's got a long long it's got a long way to go still but
Yeah, jim's not gonna have any
Semblance of understanding that at all. Yeah, let's let's see where he goes
So today we're doing a follow-up where I discuss my thoughts about virtual reality and why I think it's
Not necessarily doomed to failure, but certainly not destined for greatness because vr is kind of snake oil
At this point not to mention just a stealth return of motion control
So let's look
I don't even want to like explain why it's just literally not the same as motion controls. It's just not
You can have controls with it. You can have vr without motion controls. It's a different thing
Yeah, yeah
Obviously, you can have room scale vr where you you know, you physically walk around
Obviously, you know, well, there are wireless versions of the headsets or or wireless adapters, but you are tethered, you know
To like, you know, you know your space of your room
But then yeah, there's also you know sitting in the seat vr where you know, it's just folks but it just uh
Follows your head tilt in but yeah
Yeah
Bring you seemed outraged. Are you gonna say something?
Oh, no, what the fuck is this
Funny to me that it's just a sneaky conflation that he gets in there real quick and then talks fast enough
Well, oh
Oh, yeah
There's a term for this but it's gonna make it puts the audience already on a back burner of like it's a bad
Before he's even explained his points. So it's just it's not it's not a good way to explore the topic really
Point there i'm sure fringy knows this too
But for those not aware jim once upon a time was working for the escapist
alongside uh yatsi and uh bob chipman
Which is why the whole uh
Speaks really fast and then uh, well say something, you know, say something under undercut and then just speak over it
Well, the thing is like yatsi has a more comedic tone in general, which is oh, yeah
Something I disagree with i'm just like, yeah
Yeah, I was drawing parallels with uh movie bob really then yatsi
Yeah, the thing they all just worked on the escapist or you know under the escapist or whatever
It's funny that you pair those three together because it's like you got two guys who are fairly witty and sharp and then you got movie bob
And then you have bob
Not to mention just a stealth return of motion I feel like if if the escapist was a sitcom it would be called
And then you have bob
Okay
Control so let's look at the problems facing vr and why I think it's kind of toss
Everybody's got via
Fever
What the fuck is this game?
Well, see the thing is if you show shitty vr games, it'll make everyone go. Ah, it's a shitty vr game
Let me share dodge was beat saber out at this point
Oh
Resident evil sevens vr was probably I can't remember if that was out. I don't think that was out
Yeah, that yeah r7 was but I can't recall if beat saber was
He's not just gonna eat well, he's not gonna just choose this game though, so
Um political believers who declare it to be the future of video games
What is it with tech bloggers? Anyway, everything's either dead or the future for them shit can't just exist
Anyway, virtually you say that literally about everything
Of course everyone treats everything that way for sensationalizing like topics and stuff. But yeah, it is exactly unfair as a point
I mean if stuff just exists, why are you mentioning it?
Today it's like, you know the thing it's there it continues to be there
There you go. Well, you can see something is just okay, right? You can say it's okay
Yeah, then that's why are you writing an article to say that thing is okay. It'd be like saying, you know controllers
The sun still exists use flash air. I mean they certainly want to be more flashy for sure
You know, uh, you know controllers they're still around for games keyboards. Yep
Have you heard of tv's? Yeah, she have. Uh, how are they? Okay, you know, not great not terrible
But then when flat screens came in then like everyone was like, oh have you seen this new kind of tv? It's the future
There we go, there we go
here we go
Cality is the latest big thing people keep blowing like it's cocksquirt's liquor and so many of its heralds seem oblivious to its men
That article is from march 2016
And this video is from october
Just I just want to point that out that article was from march and this video is from october of the same year
You've been out of date with that one
He's trying does he think other I pay attention to dates does he think i'm not watching
Oh, I think you're not sharing the screen dude. Oh, well, i'm i'm I was trying to stealth, uh mods
People in chat i'm missing notion. Where is he?
Notion say something that I can I can carry on don't worry. You're not missing anything. You had like a screenshot of a guy
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's not
It's interesting though people are desperate to see the screenshot. Okay, I get it. It's coming. Give me a sec
I got something else on the screen right now
So where is okay, what if I ask I don't know how to mod people without them showing up in uh
Is underscore all right
I'm not showing up for me. Okay. Well
Well, i'll i'll i'll it's all right. We'll carry it
Screen up now. Yes. Okay. There we go. All good
The mainstream and will in all likelihood join 3d tv motion control and tasos
In the realm of promising technology that was thrust into our faces
Rapidly before getting dropped and left to die quietly in the street first
So would you describe what happened to vr as being left to die in the street? No, no
Like say you want about whether or not it's any good it's doing just fine as far as i'm aware
Um, that's great
But there are iterations that weren't and I totally accept that like back in the day. There are vrs that just stopped
Um, are we counting so good?
Well, I was just gonna say that this seems to be the first generation this video that he's making about these ones the first generation
That stuck around and they've now got their position in the market and they're not like I don't think they're gonna lose their position now
They're only going to improve and then they're gonna take a bigger market share every year. Basically
Well since the gen that he's referring to there's already there has already been a new gen for
most of the major uh vr
creators including
samsung and now get on on board as well and and microsoft, you know
Like you can buy at microsoft headsets that are not like, um, well, they don't have as much functionality as
The big dog so to speak but they're like considerably cheaper as well
it's
There's a yeah, there's a lot of options surprisingly for it, especially if you in america
And i'm pretty sure that as days go by more and more options are becoming available because like I said
it's kind of
People totally see it as the next uh tier of like video game
Explorationally is it's like our vr is the next step up
Once they once they nail it once vr is as good as like, you know
Sci-fi shit, it's gonna obliterate like standard gaming
But i'm gonna you know, I accept that that's gonna be a long time
Well, how long do you think is a long time out of curiosity? Um
Like how long before they perfect it?
Oh
How long until it's
Yeah until it's like commercially available like for like, you know, most countries and and shit
Reckon 20 years maybe less
Uh, I feel like it's probably gonna be less than that. Yeah, i'm sort of giving it a bit of space because i'm trying to think of like
Certainly within 20 years
Yeah, I think that'll probably be safe to say
Um, and then before like the amount of time it would take before
People would start not wanting to game on anything else. It's probably going to be
Maybe double or triple that
Yeah
Are we counting in this discussion the ones that don't actually have screens in them, but you just slot a phone into the the headset?
Oh
because those are like
Yeah, well, yeah, they'd
Well, this is this is it that they are that is the cheapest option
You know, you wouldn't do that for gaming necessarily
But that is like, you know, the cheapest of the of the cheap tier
Yeah
But i've got i've got a bit of cardboard
Yeah, yeah, you literally have one that's cardboard you just slot in and then like your phone just uh does the rest doesn't it?
Wasn't that like the nintendo labo quote? Yeah
What happened with labo? Is that still going?
Uh, i'm not sure is that the one where you
What is that the switch? Oh, yeah, that's right
Yeah, that's why that's still a thing and you can you you make like different things to put the the switch controllers into right?
Yeah, yeah
Like a gun or um a wheel. I don't think it'd be a gun. I don't think it'd be a gun from nintendo
But yeah, yeah, it's no no you'd have like a sort of like a rifle and you'd shoot things
Like the you know, like little targets or whatever
Fair enough, but when you say gun, I just figured like I have a nine millimeter i'm just like it's cardboard
They
Wouldn't tell you how to make a gun they sell children plastic guns all the time in the world. It's fine
They sell fake guns. Yes. Well cardboard isn't a real gun
You don't know that unless this yeah, unless this subdue propulsion. Uh, can you prove that technology i'm unaware of
Prohibitive technology with a ton of barriers to entry price is of course a huge factor agreed price is
So anything he's coming up with a price is probably true
Up until the point where the mass production of them and well the well the the consumer market for it
Drives down the price of it. Well, that's the thing it's gonna get cheaper
They'll figure out better and easier ways to make it. It's gonna get cheaper
Yeah, it is. Well, it's in it's well every technology for the most part would be like that. Yeah
Why is it in the screen that the only object that's really poorly rendered is the nearest thing to the player?
Oh, yeah, I guess
It's expensive with the playstation vr costing 400 dollars the oculus rift costing 600 dollars and the htc-vive costing
Fucking eight. It's almost as if the technology is new. I was gonna say, uh, uh, would it be interesting to compare the prices now?
um
What is the htc-vive?
Price is still very still very expensive
Any cool new thing when it first came out like, you know cars tv when those were new
Oh, they're probably pretty expensive, right?
You guys used to cost a lot more relatively compared to what they cost now, like if you were to adjust inflation
Dude the vive pro i cost 1500 dollars or pounds
I guess that's probably top of the line vr. Yeah. Yeah, so the vive pro
I know get me wrong. I'm not i'm not defending htc. They're terrible like as a company, but they
So the the htc-vive is the original one the pro
They were quite underhanded with the pro actually because when it came out
They basically said that if you wanted to get the pro and it was only the headset
It didn't come with the cameras. It wasn't like the full um pack
You basically had to you couldn't buy the pro as a pack though
You could only buy it as the headset alone
So if you wanted the complete package with the pro and you didn't have
Vive already you'd have to buy the vive the original one and then the pro on top of it to use it with the cameras
I think they've fixed that since then but hcc are particularly a shit company for this
Well, they're they're they're twats for this
Well, um looking at it the the one that I think he's talking about in his video
The the vive the vive he's referring to goes like 400 or less now
Yes, five well 500 quid on the website and he cited it as 800. So it's like well looks like it's gone down
And that's you know, there's a pretty significant drop too
Bear in mind that when we're paying for it or any or europeans are paying for it
They pay normally like an extra 100 150 for this shit the same for consoles for the most part as well
And and yeah, by the way, i'm not saying it's cheap. I'm saying that um as time progresses
It goes down and it's the same with like a really
High value like pc gear in general if you try and get the highest market uh graphics card right now. It's not fucking cheap
No, no, this is it. It's like back in the day with um, so if you want to talk about another technology that might have been a a fad or a
Too expensive to be a thing. Uh blu-rays
When blu-ray and hd dvd were announced or came out around like the early 2005 2006 time
um
The cheapest in the uk at least for a blu-ray player was in fact the playstation 3. Yeah, and yeah
Literally cheaper than buying a standalone blu-ray. Um device to play it off of
um
Obviously now. Well when the ps3 came out, it was like what 600 dollars arrived in america. Um, 450 quid 500 in the uk
um
Obviously now if you wanted to buy a blu-ray player, I i'm pretty sure you could get it for 20 quid now probably
And yeah, this the well this period or um transition from the you know, brand new super expensive to
A couple years old and a lot cheaper, you know, it does vary between technologies, but it's not
It's it's inevitable. It's not going to be this expensive or or out of price for everyone forever
And to the point that yeah
You think like, you know, you think like a mobile phones or smartphones now
They're way more powerful than any um handheld consoles that you had as a child like, you know, fucking ridiculous amounts
It will come to a point. It might it might take another two decades
It might not but
It's not gonna we're not gonna be bumping on about the vibe cost in a fucking 500 quid in like the next five years
On the next 10 years. So it's just the way that um, like princes used to cost thousands of dollars
And you say printer. Sorry. There was literal. Yeah, like just
Princes
But now it's like it's cheaper to buy a new printer than it is to buy ink for the printer. Oh
Well, yeah, and that's unfortunately
Well, that's a lot to do with uh bad practices by hp
And well another printer manufacturers. Well, that's exactly the point though. It's like technology
It's new it costs a lot of money and then when it becomes
It a lot of it has to do with how much demand there isn't the demand is high
You know, yeah, exactly. It's just going to become cheaper and cheaper if it's available to you know
Consumers like even if there's wide appeal
Yeah, exactly. I think I think we'll have
And this is it and the context with jim, especially when he did this video is that yeah
It is cutting edge technology
It is going to be expensive and it's not going to be available for everyone or it's not even intended for everyone
like I wouldn't I don't you know what the uh
The age recommendation for using the vr is but I wouldn't put it on a child or anything or like a room scale vr
I'm a child that you know
but um
Yeah, well, obviously price or the price of entry is definitely going to be the hardest thing
um
If we're not including the fact you're going to buy like, you know, you've got to have a ps4 you're going to have a good pc
Involved as well, but that's obviously that just comes expected with it
You know if you want to play the best the biggest new games
You've got to have the new consoles and the new pcs to play them on haven't you?
But I think I think price is like the best point jim has or the strongest one and and and
Well, it's the thing to this day. I'm the reason I wouldn't get vr is like, I don't know if it's worth the price yet
I don't know. I'd need convincing. Um, but the thing is I have that kind of thing with with consoles as well
I'm like, is it for example if the ps5 was announced tomorrow i'd be like hmm
I don't know
Like how many exclusives are coming out with it is my first question
Well me personally because i'll say i'm like the most enthusiastic about this right now. Um
My only problem is why I haven't got one myself is because my flat is not big enough
Especially for the like, you know, the room scale vr that I want to use because i've used I i've used the vibe and the oculus
Rift at um conventions or even a fucking curry's pc will tab them at one point
Um i've been on them and like they're great and i'm like, yeah, I would love to get them
But in my my place, I can't really
Use or utilize them to the full advantage and that is actually probably going to be another argument that jim does bring up
I think he does actually use
well, but the
Price points or the price of entry is going to come down and
Well, yeah, well, I guess we'll just fast forward this pit. Well, not fast forward. It'd be uh, just we'll agree with him
This is basic pricing too not counting the fact you'll need other shit to go with it
The psvr naturally needs a ps4 alongside a playstation camera and two six-year-old
Sony has the shitting nerve to sell in hundred buck two packs the oculus and five require high npc's to handle their flavor
meaning what
A lot of people out and this is something so many vr troopers don't talk about those with physical disabilities might as well not bother
Just jump a sec. Yeah
We'll jump making the point that if you're disabled with you won't be able to use it
We'll we'll have to let him carry out a bit because then you didn't hear that
You didn't hear that skateboarding is doomed to fail
It gets even better expensive hardware on top of the expensive hardware next to price
Barriers to entry are equally restrictive and shut a lot of people out and this is something so many vr troopers don't talk about
So the framing that he's coming from with the disabled aspect
I'm assuming is he's erroneously assumed that there's a new type of book out and it requires you to do jumping jacks while reading and it's
like
It's not and it's like so books are available to everyone who can read or could
cycle with braille
But uh, you know the ones with the quiet jumping jacks now fuck that that's kicking out all the people without legs
and the weird thing is that it's like why are you judging it from the framing of like
the medium that it's a part of rather than it being a um
Uh a spin-off of it or a method or medium in which you can do it because this has existed forever
How do you know a controller is inherently restrictive to those without hands?
It's ridiculous
It's like you said that right because uh, microsoft released an adaptive controller for xbox one that disabled people can more easily
play games
So I don't even think it would be a barrier for all time. Eventually. They'd figure out a way to make it work
It's like watching it's like okay, you get someone pitches you an exercise tape exercise tapes don't exist yet
Someone's like i've got this idea. It's an exercise tape and they go how would steven hawking use this?
uh
Well, yeah, so he's wrong but this is a point that gets repeated in another uh,
Let's say another point in the video. So we will come back to it. Don't worry a more elegant way of doing it
He's not he's not he's not wrong that it would shut people out of using it who have disabilities. But it's like
Just like everything else does context it's wrong
I mean even even books say that some people won't be able to use it because of that
Like blind people can't use books you go over brails like people without hands and are blind. There's got to be someone out there
Like i'm sorry if these people exist
So your audio books and it's like all right, they're deaf too
Well, like what percentage of the gaming market is disabled? I'm pretty sure they're not going to make the
You know the the the product fail because they can't use it
I mean as you brought up skateboarding rock climbing, is that an industry?
No, no, it's not
Well, yeah, I guess I should just say sports like as a whole but yeah
With physical disabilities might as well not bother with a vibe given its propensity for standing and room-scale games
So it's pretty defeatist as well
Let's say you did have like a few fingers missing or you had one leg
They were like, well, you may not bother them. It's like oh, I mean i'd like to try give it a shot. It's like don't bother
All right
Someone with a herniated disc my vibe basically takes up floor space since so many of its games require standing and twisting around
Uh, and this is why I don't like where he how he phrases all of this that oh, yeah
You know many games require you to stand and move in and it's like that's the benefit. That's the fucking fun of it
like
Well, that's that's the hook. So yeah, and there's a lot of VR games that don't require you to move
No, no, there's not like if sports were new he would be making these same arguments
You have to get up and move you're required to be athletically in shape and that is not impossible for the regular man
but I I just I just I
It just it just hurts me
How he just like kind of puts it on like the defensive that oh, yeah
You know how dare it like, you know you utilize, you know the literal room how
It's a temporary issue for me
There are many for whom it's simply never gonna happen there's stuff that will never just get better
There are seated experiences. Yes
And the psvr is more geared toward those than the excluding vibe but for as well, you know the excluding vibe
Yeah, yeah
He's wrong about that then and he's wrong now
if you
Just buy the one that you can play more games sitting down before
Just buy the one you can use yeah
Yeah, what is the thing you're you should you shouldn't just buy it and go yep
This will everything on here will work for me. It's like maybe find out about it
You know first find out what things it offers and what you could do with them. Jeez again
Especially if they are so expensive as they are you you you're surely going to be looking into it to see
Like like one of the few things i'm gonna have to look at when I was looking at the headsets was
Oh, which ones can I buy or which ones can I wear with my glasses on because I can't see shit around my glasses
I'm like, oh do I wear them without wearing the headset? And well since i've done it, you know in the last i've been to like
You know what floor shows and all that with them
Good news, you know if you're like short-sighted, you don't have to wear glasses
You just uh, you know, the the screen is so close to your eyes. It doesn't bother me. I can see everything, you know
you know, but
uh
Everything is just like everything is just it's just it's injustice or it's you know
It's oppression the gym with this all these disabled kids or whatever that who can't use
I don't just dance or anything. You know, why not pick on fucking just dance games or whatever then it's like, you know
Yeah, yeah, you have to have you know opposable thumbs and limbs and shit
Hands to make to play pretty much every game. You have to have my ears to hear the song
Video games. I live in a grass. I live in a mud hut
Claiming that room scale vr is the one true way to show off how impressive virtual reality tech is
There are plenty of folks who are automatically disqualified from being so impressed
Just as with every single thing ever any activity a human can commit to there are people who can't do the same thing
Yeah, there's not an experience that suits everyone it's just no it's not a thing
Then we have to think about people with eye issues or a propensity for my fucking eye issues
Yes
Maybe the motion sickness because it is uh, yeah
people to adjust to that motion sickness or uh
The screen door effect as they call it is the shit like that. You gotta
Yeah, but there are some people who get motion sickness from first-person shooters. Does that mean that we're not allowed to keep making them now?
Oh, yeah. Yeah
It means they're gonna fail. I just I just like they did these like blind people can't see and you're like, yeah
This thing that uses your eyes if you don't have good eyes, you won't be able to use it
You know this thing called a car if you don't have hands
It's just marked off to you. I guess self-driving cars fringy you ableist you just hold the wheel with your mouth
You're like 1920s
Can you imagine somebody saying that this car is unjust I can't use it. I have no hands
The matter fact is like oh no
What like I don't it's like what do you want them to do?
Like what were their options here? Like if you can't see yeah, you can't use me up
You can't see can you show that you can't play other games either
I'm pretty sure I already have a quote like this in gedel too. I think I say something like this like
If you can't see you can't play
I
People say they should put a quote from like I'm pretty sure I have this one. Fuck it. We can say it again
Uh
Call them ableist video games
Oh, well, well that we haven't got to that word yet. Well, you know, we're not we're not even there yet. We're getting there
Does he call in help? Does he actually call me? No, no, no, it's no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, we'll get there
Eye grinds go into motion sickness. This is stuff the evangelists. Just don't fucking think about when they talk about the evangelists don't think
Yeah, yeah, the vr fanboys. Oh, come on, man
As if like you're talking to somebody who bought vr and loves it and you're like so what about blind people gary?
What about blind people and he's like, I guess they can't play the way the way he's pitching it right now
Is there's people out on the street corners going try vr now the new way to live and then like there's people up in wheelchairs
What about me they're like, oh what about you
off to the gulag
You're a broken person you don't deserve vr
No
You can still use it if you have no legs I was gonna say like you can still do it
um, and also like
You know
If vr is going to be in the future and we're going to be having like prosthetic limbs and you know
Like cyberpunk in the future. You might not even be a problem
Like people who have disabilities might get prosthetic eyes
and hands and stuff
Oh, yeah
It's more case like yeah in vr. This is it'd be like the one place that you could see yourself walk like not the you know
talk from
Who has his legs but?
Even more than vr. I mean that's
Yeah, probably pretty good for physical therapy actually possibly yeah might be
Oh, yeah, but i'm sure you must have seen like a jiff or something of um, these people who've gone to the extreme of vr
What they have actually jiff
I get yeah on our gift gift
Sorry, we're gonna have we're gonna have trouble there for a second. No, no, no, no
There's just like there's a guy who I work with called jiff and I just skip I give it
Okay
I'll do that as well. I will do it. I do call I do call her a gift. Um, yeah, i'm sure you've seen gifs then of
People who i've got like
Uh, like 360 like treadmills or whatever where they're like, they just run it on the spot. They are
um in vr it's really fucking weird shit, but
Yeah
Awesome. I want like I want video arcades to
Start back up so I can use one of those that like, you know for a certain amount like
For every game or whatever. Yeah. Yeah, because there's no way i'm getting one of those for myself
Jiff the peanut butter
Of it. What's a jig?
Yeah, what are you doing?
Just don't fucking think about when they talk about how life-changing and revolutionary
Vr is speaking of which let's talk space for the vibe in particular you're expected to have a lot of space
Again, we're told room scale vr is the true
So my my issue with this criticism is that like it's like buying um,
I don't know man a treadmill and being like wait, I need the space for a treadmill to use it
You're like, well, yeah
Because this is what it is if it doesn't do this then why are you buying it in the first place?
No, that doesn't count for the the playstation 4 one
Because the whole point without majority of the games is that you you're sitting down but ones that require
Room space. I mean it varies right? Like the idea is that there has to be a reasonable amount not like extreme. Yeah
But uh, I bought a I bought a pet horse after my car storm in my pantry
Like to a degree you have to expect it to actually require room space or why are you buying it in the first place?
That's kind of my take here
Yeah, yeah, his point is why would you buy it in the first place because apparently no one has room space
If you're rich enough to buy the the
All of these different sets you'd think you have a house with a room big enough to store, you know play one of them
I
Also, can we like just can can we mention the fact that he's just been gently swaying
Yeah, we haven't seen him move like like around the room he's just you know, why don't okay. Yeah, okay
Quick win. We're still getting there. We're still getting there
Is the true way to see how impressive the tech is
Look at his face. My office isn't big enough. He's having such a horrible time
Very few people I know do millions of people in fact won't have the space for this shit
Remember how connects needed a ton of space to be used effectively a ton of space. I still think it was a reasonable amount
Wait, I mean what i'm getting is that if you want
You want to use this thing that takes advantage of floor space and creates like a virtual sort of
Interaction then do you think it'll just require no space?
Like it's what does he want?
Like it needs as much space as it needs things that only fortunate and wealthy people can use never take off
Well, you're just clear clear some space in your room and then put it all back together when you and you might be like
Oh, well, that's a lot of work to play. I think it'll be like well
Not dead
Yeah, this is the price of using
Well using this kind of technology that it's just that way when he's on about like, you know
The true vr experience. I I would equate you to like, you know when uh, well when uh hd TVs came out
Like, you know early 2000s again
And you have to buy a hdmi cable to plug into your your ps3 or whatever
And if you use the scar cables, it'd be in 480 instead of 720 or 1080. I was like, yeah
I remember I remember not being
Tech savvy enough back then to know about that and I was like, oh what i'm gonna get like an expensive cable
Just to get it to make the tv work properly. Oh
And it's like yeah, this is this is the this is the cost of what you're doing or what you're trying to use
These are things you're supposed to know about it ahead of buying it by the way
Why should I have to pay for petrol for my car?
It should just run indefinitely because I will it to and the car evangelists don't talk about the petrol
They don't talk about the upkeep
Nope
They're all paid off by fucking shell oil companies
Kind of I love that
Again, so if if if let's say it required a mile of space be like that's fucking ridiculous
But I don't think
Like it should require just a half meter. I'd be really shocked. I'd be like, is that it really like fuck
I want to you know, maybe move around a bit. That'd be cool
So, you know, it might be like oh, so where's the correct amount?
I'd be like, well, I guess it would be cool if um, maybe future vr tech can like scan the room you're in and then create
A sort of environment that adapts to whatever room space you're working with
But obviously it has a min and max like it can't work with anything less than or more than x
um, as far as I know it's not unreasonable like it's not a ridiculously unreasonable sort of um
Set up from these things. Unfortunately out of the four of us alex you definitely used it, right?
Yeah. Yeah. So with the vive it will use
for the true experience
Um, you have the headset and the controllers like as jim's got there
but then you've also got I think it's either three or four cameras which are basically just placed in the corners of the room and
Then they also create a virtual room or a visual grid inside
When you put the headset on so that when you walk towards your walls or furniture like a sofa or something like that
Um, you'll get a kind of like a red grid like line showing, you know
Like, you know, you're walking too close to the wall kind of thing and then you have to um, take a step back
You know, there's there's a lot at least with the vibe experience
There's lots of precautions to stop you from walking into the wall or smashing your hand against the ceiling or something like that. Yeah
um
with the
rift
That one I think is just one camera with the headset or at least the one version that I the one the well the one variation
Of it that I used. I know there's like three different headsets now, I think
um
But yeah, that one was again that that that's for more scale or smaller scale again
Um, it's a lot more just to do with them standing on the spot moving like going back and forth not necessarily walking around the room
Um, but yeah
Again, there's all different versions of it. And you know, of course you got the cockpit, you know, which is the you know
Just sat in your ass in your computer chair
Mode just with the head tracking just by you know going up down left right, etc
And some people in chab and saying that apparently you can change the scan settings on the google one anyway
Like as in it'll it'll react to the size of your space that you have available
Which again, I think that'll be that'll be standard going forward once you go further enough in time sort of thing
Yeah, exactly. Yeah
Again, there's other headsets. I don't know how they do their things. But yeah
There's the there's so many options about it. But yeah, jim's just focusing on just oh, yeah, you need a big room for the vibe and
Yeah
That's the only way to experience it. So well as he as he keeps
Doing with his saki voice
Remember how well connected yeah, yeah, so because connect failed, uh, these are gonna fail for sure apparently
Um, but like connect is a lot more restrictive in terms of what was also a lot shittier
Yeah
There's like yeah
bad
I still remember itoy
Do you guys remember milo like the little kid that was supposed to come with connect? Do you remember that?
Oh, yeah
Why are you getting a child with your connect?
Yeah, it's like a kid you could just talk to but then they never I don't think they launched it like it just didn't go ahead
I remember like yeah, I I loved it. I uh back of the day. That was great. The um, the window washing game was my favorite
So I don't remember too well. I'm just gonna have like vague nostalgia of it
Ah, the window washing one was where you just have to pretend you're washing windows and like your tv screen was all soapy and that
And then you just did have to move your hands up and down just to like scrape away the soap. It was great
I've got like I've got like really vague recollections of it, but
You know
It's it's in there somewhere. It's in it's in my brain
It's weird to look back on all because I remember when they were announcing it at an e3 like the milo thing
It's like this is gonna be great. It was like it never happened, right?
Um, yeah, no piedemol and he's like look she instinctively
He threw something at her and she instinctively reached out to try and grab it. Oh, that wasn't fun. It's like
We we have watched piedemol new videos all day long
Such a liar
Use a friendliness and an ability to be adopted by as many people as possible make successful products restricting
Wait, sorry. Did you say restricting experience?
I was rewinding them be used effectively
Remember how well connected?
Yeah
Use a friendliness and an ability to be adopted by as many people as possible make successful product
The ability to be adopted by as many people as possible make successful product. What do you think?
What makes you think that that's not currently the case?
I know it needs to reach x standards to be what it is
And it's therefore going to block out people naturally like like literally every product that ever existed
Again, this we're just talking about that. You know, this this is or especially at the time more more cut edge tech again
um
Shit, like I know he's getting that, you know, like oh you think of like, you know, the original we you know
It was the cheapest console of its generation
And it sold the most and like, you know, it's well, it's it's the best selling console ever I think
Yeah
And then I think the way it comes in somewhere
Yeah
Well, the point is, you know, like you know
The cons are or the pros and cons is you know are cheaper to sell well cheap per unit
sells more
um
And then, you know of your head does cost more and therefore they won't sell as much as like. Yeah, that is
Obviously true, especially right now
but
Yeah, that was probably a time when top screens cost like fifty thousand dollars, but you know
Eventually it gets cheaper
That's the whole point
Yeah, it's always going to be neat
This is it
Well, why can't you have niche things in gaming? And I know one thing about jim that we haven't always joked about yet. Um
him advocating for easy mode in dark souls
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah
And it's always this whole appealing. Oh, you must appeal to or you must be you must make it available to everyone
You know as we all know dark souls did terribly
Yeah
Yeah, that that's one of those games that uh
Like the the video essay crowd there was a portion of time where every single video essay is needed to make a video on dark souls
Had to talk about dark souls in some way shape or form. Oh, yeah
Dark souls what does it teach us about life?
I don't know. Bob. Tell me
Well, the thing I just want to stress. It's just it's just jim
uh, go well
I picture the flag for
Just the everyman like everyone's got to be able to experience it
And if they come to you know, there's something wrong with it
Because there's there's never been anything that some people couldn't use that was popular and successful
Was it because he never he never um points out like, you know
Our games that are rated m for mature or 18 rated or whatever in your respective country
You never you never picks you never picks about them or gonna you know, because this game's 18 now
Nobody else could play it. But as soon as the game is like has a special requirement to it. You don't like it
It's uh, I mean he literally complains about like eye shit and it's like that applies to normal games. I'm confused
He's gonna be really appealing to his blind youtube viewers
I know I know there are blind people who like listen to youtube actually. So oh, yeah, absolutely
This is that kind of supports the point. It's like yeah, these people have these things exist
Restricting excluding experiences
Well, I mean at the price point they're being flogged at they might do well as a niche product
But as a mainstream adopted product
No, mate
Nah, basically to get why do they need to be a mainstream product anyway right now?
Like this is the whole thing if there's starting up
The niche would be exactly where they would be at first
naturally look everything else
Pretty much. Yeah, like outside of like the most explosive new things that come out that everyone buys and don't even realize why like
Which is rare. What was the quickest like thing that was like or suddenly it's everywhere. I'm guessing i'm thinking like smartphones
Tamagotch is Tamagotchi. Oh, yeah pokemon
I don't know. It depends what generation you grew up in. It doesn't really
The best out of virtual reality to truly see what people are talking about you need a lot of money
You need to be free of many common physical ailments many common physical ailments like not being able to see
You need to have functional hands and eyes
I just I just love how
I just love how they such it is that you all automatically well, you're more likely to be disabled than non-disabled. Just all right
Yeah, I just love that common. It's just such a sneaky word
He thought he could get in because it makes it sound like he's actually got a point. He doesn't
Because that's not true
I cannot be able to see and walk
Yeah
You'll find the the average human being has both of those abilities and yeah again for anybody who is
Unable to walk or unable to see it's like yeah, you won't be able to experience the full
Benefits of vr. That's true. But you also if you can't see we'll be unable to experience the full benefits of a video game
All life or life itself, yeah, that's pretty dark it is dark the truth is dark
Oh
Yeah, and don't get me wrong
Yeah
Not to make fun of the people who do suffer from that
But the one that the one that jim might be leading up to and somebody pointed out in chat
Yeah, the uh, to be fair it is common to be obese in america. So
Like that it's got a well, this is it this is
How many of these uh disabilities are self-inflicted? Um
Yeah, again, we're getting there. We're getting there
anyway
Telling everybody how badly they need this shit. In fact, let's just go right ahead and call virtual reality headsets
Exactly. Here we go. They are privileged
Hey jim jim, do you think that makumbo in the middle of south sedan is playing video games?
So
Now
If we get down to the brass tacks of what these words actually mean
To be privileged is to have access to something someone else doesn't literally do to no like effort on your own, right?
You have a privilege that another person does not have and his arguments are that if you have
Ailments that are natural or you lack money. You can't get these things and so people who are born rich and born healthy
Are therefore privileged to use and have them therefore their privileged goggles
Do I so does not being blind is that a privilege apparently?
He's not
Wrong and like you you have to have money to have like this thing
You have to probably be relatively well off. But the fact that he's criticizing them by saying it it's like
Yeah
I mean, can't we just call video games privilege games?
Like it's like oh you need to have said about a money to get there. You need technology to get them
Probably a demand need to not be blind to get there. Look look at you complaining about your water tasting a little bit funny
I
Wanted to I wanted to say that um, I won't name names
But I remember once upon a time there's a certain youtuber who it wasn't Jim just for just to make sure but
He made a big rant about why he suffered through childhood obesity
And it was because he didn't have access to a swimming pool
As if that was like the only fucking reason that you can you know that why you can't be fat or can be fat in it
I think people are gonna know in chat. We're talking about actually
I'm not saying anything more but yeah it it it cracks me up. Just like that. Some people will
can't part metalize like
Bullshit like that to that level that they will actually say I don't have access to a swimming pool. That's why i'm fat
I I do love this though, like
Oh really you think that people who could afford to spend eight hundred dollars
On some headsets to see some pictures in a different way
I'm well off. Wow
The attorney is guessing the same person
No, no, no, it's not it's not either
It's exactly the same
Exactly the kind of thing you'd say
Smaller youtubers. I'll just say that small youtuber now that we've talked about the biggest barriers to entry that do a fine job
Of filtering out millions of potential customers. Let's talk about the uh billions. Let's not get things confused. Jim
There is a world outside of america and europe. You dumbass. Well, he said it filters out millions of customers
So technically speaking I think he would have wanted to say billions but we actually agree with him that it would probably be millions
If you know what I mean, probably billions of people who can't afford it. Well, no, no, no i'm going strictly from um
Ailment land about how many people can afford it? Like yeah, that's that's a different question
How many people have could afford it?
You said it was part of the barriers of entry which included cost
All right
In that case. Yeah, it would be I think really safe to say billions then. Yeah
Of course, it's it. Yeah
Oh, yeah, I mean, you know, they'd have to sacrifice a lot of shit to be able to afford
Can you imagine like not they don't just need the vr as well
Then it's a vr extension of like a good gaming pc or a console. So yeah
Oh, i'm just saying like if you own a shitty little farm in the middle of the desert
You're probably not gonna be able to sell it at exchange for any
Our savings over the past decade I bought a vr headset
Even have access to it in your own country or like your neighboring country to buy it
You know outside of you know the west
That's where you obviously gets people. Well, i've started some of asia obviously, but
Yeah, I don't think jim did the math on this guy. So
It's okay. We forgive. I'm not i'm not criticized for that though. I wouldn't bother for this bit either
Imagine like you're going through the whole world population and your argument for a
For where product can't work is that there's millions of people who can't buy it
This game costs 60 in some places in the world people don't have 60
Dollars, that's not fair
If there are millions of people who can't buy your product you've got a pretty good target audience there
Yeah, I mean you'd have to be selling like
Nearly, you know in a central commodity like water very nearly something that important
Oh the massive vr itself is a convoluted fucking mess right now in terms of both its market
The mesh is a mess and is a physical product at market
We have three major headsets not to mention a whole bunch of smaller mobile contenders. There are exclusive games at market
We have three consoles and there are a whole bunch of exclusives and a whole bunch of mobile contenders
And a whole bunch of handhelds and a whole bunch of different steam like services on pc like steam
This is an argument for the stupidity of the consumers basically
Oh, so jim just assumes that people can't people can't figure it out
Yeah
Because this is the thing right when when the next generation comes out of consoles i'll be like, okay
So let's have a look at what all of them can do
How much all of them take for like online prices and then all the exclusives?
It's on me to figure that out
Like I don't have to you know
I'm not like what I purchased them from the store like tell me why which one of the three is the best
In fact don't do that. That's like the worst that you can do
Jim would probably complain if you you know
I can call the jitty games where they have the big follow arrow over the players like a character's head
And it's like yeah, you know how that's bad i'm stupid and everybody knows what to do in a game. Yeah
Let's apply that to this
Why do you assume people don't know how to figure this out like wow?
Among them and then there are exclusives within exclusives since some games require room-scale space and some don't some require
These are things that you're supposed to figure out
You're not supposed to just buy a thing and be like I deserve everything about it. It's it's really funny
He says that considering the Wii had a lot of games where it's like you need the nunchucks
You need the Wii motion plus you need this many controllers and yet the Wii was the most successful console of the last generation
Also, he's advocating for a lack of competition technically there like uh, I don't want multiple
vr's running at the same time he's advocating for less choice and less options and less competition which means the markets don't have to
Adjust the competition which means we that ends up with bad things typically
Okay, I don't think he thinks that i like with this though. I think he's I think he's really just busy with it
That's it. He's he's well, we're we're gonna find the motivation becomes clear very soon. I know I don't know
All of this is blowing smoke because you all these arguments are really poor
Yeah, and and whilst he and well when he said this it's even further invalidated now, so it's
Yeah
Controls and some don't you can't just download and play these games like normal
You need to know if you've got the pre-reqs or if the game is something you mean like on a gaming pc
I bought a car and some guy was like where are you going to park it and I was like what?
What do you mean? It's like you got it. Have you got a have you got a garage like no
Somebody needs to make the meme of a homo simpson holding the book up with the question on it. Am I disabled?
Doesn't the guy have like a fucking thing through his head or whatever
Yeah, I think that's like a steel beam or something. Yeah, it's just like smashed through his head. It's like am I disabled?
And I expect things like the recent resident evil seven timed vr exclusivity on bs4
To be the start of the next wave of exclusivity bidding wars as oh
So you're against exclusivity bidding wars, but you're okay with epic games buying exclusives away from
The general market. That's interesting. Yeah, that's uh, that's funny. That's not funny how that works
Oh these people i'm honestly man
Like i'm kind of amazed by how hypocritical people are when it comes to the exclusives like yeah
Oh, yeah to clarify by the way because people obviously heard me twice advocate for how I choose consoles based on exclusives
I wouldn't I don't want that
It's not something I want to be the case. I actually I got into an argument about that earlier today where um,
Sony one of the guys said yeah, we might start releasing our games multi-platform. I was like, yeah, that's good
That's good. I want to I want to be able to play games on what I like
And there's this weird argument that that's entitled
Like that it's entitled to say hey, can you release a game?
Okay, so
Bombshell pc is better than console in like every single regard
Uh for running for running games, this is mind-blowing stuff
We would be way further in terms of development of
Games abilities like just every aspect of video gaming would have been improved if consoles had never held pc back
Exforming price though, right?
No, I would say it's much better prices on pc than console
depending on what
Yeah
Well, yeah, it's contextual obviously
But I think you'll find you'll get way more bang for your buck on pc in general than you will on console
I um, I see sometimes people are like yeah, but netflix has their shows and amazon has their shows
It's like yeah, but the service is the you know, like the service is the good
The good is the service whereas on playstation the good is the game you're buying the game
Three people in chat separately say you can't move your pc
What
What do you mean? Oh, no, I I don't I don't know. Oh my god the amount of times
The amount of times i've taken my pc over friend's house to game like it's
Wow, you can't move it unless it's a gamecube
I got called a moron for not bringing it up guys. You can move your pc. I'm so sorry about that. I didn't know that
Hang on. What do they think happens?
You you fucking nail it to the fucking floorboards
The pc turned like the pc like the foot for the first thing lands are it becomes fixed in that moment in that area
We haven't even talked about laptops. We haven't even talked about laptops. Well, come on gaming laptops though
Yeah, we need to talk about doing laptops
You can you play half stone constantly jay?
Yeah, but yeah
Oh, no, I'll I'll well jay just because you don't seem enlightened on it. Um
Yeah, they are gaming laptops. And yes, they are a real thing. I'm not joking
I I have not myself but a friend who brought his own over plugged into my
4k tv and then started playing a fifa on it. So, you know, that was a thing
um, yeah
Why are you having a suck?
But uh, the other thing I wanted to bring up is that people were like, hey, hey, hey his newest video
He shot on epic. It's like yeah
Jim did go back on what he said on epic
My highlight here is that he went he went back on it and then back on it again me me rags
Uh, was it fringing dust bullshit? Was that is us four that we did?
That's right
His screw steam video was terrible
and he said that uh
He tried to advocate for epic and now he's joined the hood because being anti-epic is
Fucking the obvious stance to take epic of pieces of shit
And I just like that. He's clearly got a principle here that overlaps with uh, his his position on or
Conflicts with his position on epic soon to come but then he backs on that as well
This is what I mean about how jim won't tell you about when he was wrong
Typically, but he'll always tell you about how he was right
Interesting fellow
either exclusivity bidding wars as hardware manufacturers try to undercut each other at the expense of the general public and in terms of
Wow, isn't that perfect?
What was going on with this is the thing that I love about steam is they haven't fucking buckled yet
They're not going like no borderlands will pay you more to be exclusive with us. Like no, fuck you. It's a bad practice
Which is yeah, I mean
Not the steamer perfect by the way. I'm not i'm not advocating. No, no, no
And yeah, the shit with the vr is just it's just annoying just as annoying
um
There have been
Mods to bypass it because like if you look on steam
Uh, if you look in the vr section, you will see the games do have little icons to show where i'm not there for the vive
or the
Oculus rift or both
um
And you'll see that shit, but there's also I know there's like a
fan made fear party
Program or whatever that bypasses that kind of lockout so you can play it with whatever
Um, but yeah, that shit is annoying but yeah
It is I didn't I didn't I didn't anticipate being a part of this video bring this into it
I forgot about this at the moment. So I didn't I didn't see the parallels with uh, yeah
No, I didn't I didn't remember he said this either which is kind of interesting
Yeah, yeah
Seven timed vr exclusivity on bs4 to be the start of the next wave of exclusivity fitting walls as hardware manufacturers
Try to undercut each other at the expense of the general public and in terms of physical systems
I mean jesus just look at the htc vibe. Look at this hideous thing
What?
It's not that bad. What the hell?
Yeah, hideous thing. All right
Right. I will say for me. Um
Sweat a lot and when I put on this or put on the via the vive headset
Also, you can see it there the uh
the foam, uh mask
That you put like you can buy replacements for them if like, especially if you sweat all the time with them and yeah, uh
Well, it is heavy or what the original one is heavy. I think the pro is actually heavier or it might be light
I'm not sure
um
But yeah
It's not bad
Shut up. Jim. Well, this is the thing. I'm like, what am I missing here? Like it doesn't seem that bad. Jeez
It's coming from a guy who dresses up since spandex. I mean seriously
Yeah, I don't know if anybody in chat has been uh witness to jib's wrestling career, but it's not uh
uh
This thing that requires senses strewn about your room
That's a complete fucking hassle to set up and even when it is set up gives you all sorts of fucking bullshit problems and whines
About not being seen by the sensors or fails to interact with the steam vr
Application and as thick unyielding wires trailing everywhere and separate right you make the same point twice though
Interluded in between that when he was complaining about like, uh, the problems with the software or the uh,
Connecting and blub on all that shit
There have been a lot of problems with the vive especially and one thing that is notorious with uh, HTC
They got a really bad customer service, which is uh, what is the one of the major things that's put me off buying it?
I've read way too many horror stories on uh, uh r slash vive
um about people buying well the vive and then like it failed like some part of it failing within like this, um
the alleged like one-year warranty or whatever it was and then
HTC just being point blank shit and terrible at replacing it or
Or even like losing stuff in the mail kind of her horror stories as well
So generally like it
It's really put me off and then like yeah, the the yoklas rift
Is owned by facebook's is yeah, there's a contention between a lot of the headsets, but
The room setup or the cables
That has already been fixed with a very expensive. Uh
Wireless receiver
But also yeah, it's like again
Sorry, I guess we you know, we're in that we're in that shitty phase where
It's not a it's not like a tiny lightweight helmet that you just put on and like instantly
Yeah, we're not there yet
We haven't gone to the space age where you just like, you know
Well, you're not like the headsets in demolition, man
Where you you know, you put it on and you're gonna have sex with someone or whatever
We're all that point. Yeah, jim. Sorry, but
Give me another couple of years, maybe
I don't know more than a headset to have sex with someone
Nope
Not in demolition, man. No
Controls with separate firmware updates the vibes are pain in the ass and it looks like shit. I'm being a little bit
I'm glad I'm glad we got there jim
The HTC vibe a little bit needly a little bit facetious I get it but but I mean seriously look at the thing
Like this. Oh, wait, does he just mean about his appearance? That doesn't look unreasonable at all. Like I don't know
Yeah, yeah, he's picking on the actual headset
What would you expect VR to be I'd be like, okay
So it's probably gonna be something that slots onto my eyes
It's probably gonna be a strap system that allows me to stay on my head without me holding it
And then there'll probably be wires that connect from the thing that go
Maybe across my head to the back of me because I don't understand what would be a better way to do that
And that's exactly what it is
Why VR is doomed to fail?
This company's product is ugly
Uh
This is like the kind of thing you expect to see on the set of a mid-budget 80s sci-fi movie
This is what the 80s thought the future looked like except I guess they were right
Oh, it looks like someone's vision of the
Honestly, it looks like something like from the matrix and everything
Yeah with the with the way that the front looks it reminds me of the sentinels and then the the wires obviously. Yeah
Yeah, yeah
yeah, the like kind of like
A bruise, well not bruised, but bumped effect on the front. Yeah
I don't know
It does now because this is real all Vulcan wires
Like this would be hanging off of like a bad robot costume in the 1980s
What do you think an argument?
He's not impressed shit's uncomfortable. I can sit and play any given regular game for hours. I can manage
Yeah
Well for uh recording because there's no way you play VR in that fucking yeah, it's like stock footage I guess
like
The worst extra
Extra like a sci-fi movie
Like I the background of like, uh, what is it specter who's not sweeping the floor? Yeah
It'll be him
Jim's head like it's unimpressive
He's not impressed shit's uncomfortable. I can sit and play any given regular game for hours
I can manage vr for 20 minutes. Maybe and no it's not just because i'm
Fat ha ha great joke 10l. I'm sorry. You can only handle vr for 20 minutes
Okay, I guess that's representative because he's why would that be because he's fat because he has to move
But
That's the meme I guess
Well, yeah, my my genuine question is how long can you
How much physical activity can you do in one burst? Anyway, jim like
Man the way he said that the way he said that is not how you get people to stop making fun of people or something
What if I said something like, you know, I could drive a car for hours and hours walking about 20 minutes at most fuck walking
like okay
This is a weird comparison like yeah
You can only play vr for x amount of time. Typically most people can't play it forever
Did you know they're different things? I was going to say like why are we judging them as if they're the same standard?
Why does it matter if you feel that way specifically you?
like
Should we ask any other one?
You can make almost the same argument playing like just dance games or whatever, you know, like in the arcades or whatever
Just the physical activity, I don't think you'd be playing that game for more than 20 minutes, you know
I can't stop laughing
This is why after many years this is like one video of jim's I still remember because most of them
I just watch them go. Oh, yeah. Yeah, cool. Makes sense. I'm like I I agree with most of his videos
Like on most of the yeah, typically the stuff like the general news and gaming or whatever
But holy shit
Yeah, you know like sometimes he misses the mark and he misses yes
And we you know what we all do. Uh
I don't think he would stab by this video really today at all
Well, not for more than 20 minutes
He's not impressed
I can sit and play any given regular game for hours
I can manage vr for 20 minutes maybe and no it's not just because i'm fat ha ha great joke 10 out of 10 even sat down
I don't like having a bulky sweat box such a bad way to get people to get off your case for something though
Yes, it does offend me stop
Aha 10 out of 10 joke. Fuck you
Okay
Um, yeah, so you say that even when sitting down it's a bulky sweat box which supports what alex said earlier. There you go
Ha ha great joke 10 out of 10 even sat down
I don't like having a bulky sweat box strapped to my face and you know me
I love having things strapped to my face. Normally the psvr is the most comfortable headset
I'm so glad he had the accompanying footage when he said that
He's done a lot of that. Oh, yeah. Yeah
He does dress up like the cornflakes homunculus is probably one of the
favorites
I'm just like i'm just thinking like what would I have assumed if he didn't have that footage there?
Like where would my mind have gone? I like strapping things to my face. You're like, okay
I must opinion and even then as comfy as it is
It isn't something I want clamped around my skull for extended periods of time. It's a strain on the eyes
It's disorienting and if you find a game that uses a traditional controller rather than some gimmicky on rails shit
There's a good chance you'll want to puke as your body tries and fails
Yeah, and then there's a lot of people who don't feel that way
There's a lot of people who play it for hours on end a lot of people who find it to be more immersive than anything
They've ever played
Is this his his motivation that we're getting into now for making this video?
I think so. I was gonna say I can't remember if it's explicit or not, but we've still got a decent chunk left
So i'm assuming that we're gonna because the privileged goggles thing was the big payoff. I mean now it's a way
um, yeah
But yeah, well, let's see what else he says
Just to handle the dissonance and that brings us to my biggest problem with vr right now
A problem that I had with both motion control and 3d before it
Simply put vr is not yet proving that it can make games better. It can make them more immersive
How is that not better? Um, so yeah, you can make a game more immersive. That doesn't make it better. That's interesting
Let's make games better. It makes them more immersive
Considering betha just means an improved standard that he said more immersive. It's like oh
Well, there you go by the standard of vision. It's better
Um, I don't think we need to make arguments for why vr can improve a video game experience
Do we is everyone aware of?
What vr can do?
For the future of gaming like it can be incredible
I suppose like the end game for vr is being able to plug like directly into a digital sort of uh interface
in your brain
And like yeah, like it means that is it the hollow deck stuff you can yeah
Well the danger room in x-men right the two
I feel like it would directly integrate with your brain before we've reached like holodeck levels
Of yeah, no, that's the thing. That's the end game to literally just go
Okay
I'm going to go play with my thing for a bit and you open door close the door
Press a switch touch button and then you can just be iron man
um
What I mean is like, you know where you just sort of uh
Lay down on a bed or something and then you put like your yeah that too
Or you plug it into your head and then you're just in the virtual world like and you know that future armor episode where they go
To the internet. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, that would probably be even more I was thinking a little bit more grounded like you're in let's say like a harness
And everything is detected and so you can like uh, ready player one
Yeah, and then I think moving on from there you get the sort of brain thing
At the level you could plug something into your brain i'd be genuinely concerned that like society would collapse because people weren't doing enough of stuff
I'll tell you what the matrix will be much more relevant at that point
Yeah
I think I think it'll be interesting once that happens because it's inevitable like the the digital like the cloud where people upload
Their mind to the cloud is probably like inevitable
Hopefully at that point we'd have like enough automation in society that people could get away with not doing shit. But
Yeah
As soon as that happens people are just like stopping working and like
What do I need? I need food so I can be have my brain wherever I want it to be and I need my brain plug
We'll just evolve into blobs of energy
Guess i'll just fucking die
Oh, no, there's no death in this world anymore simply get recycled into a new baby. Oh
Sounds interesting
End my existence
For it now, we're just seeing a repeat of motion control
Thanks in part to the fact that vr has itself heralded the surreptitious return. Well motion control is not a bad thing
um
Depending on its execution, right and this is the thing that's been in its infancy for ages. It's trying to
figure out how and why people use or enjoy motion controls
And um, I imagine that top tier motion controls are just going to be you don't hold anything
It's just your hands commanding everything like fluidly
We're getting there give us time
We're gonna have to go through all the stages first
And uh, yeah, I was playing um mario party on this uh the switch
With my sister and a couple of family members and um, there's a couple of motion control games in that and they were pretty fun
Like motion control is not I don't I don't really have anything against it as a whole
Um, I have stuff against like the bad ones where you you know
Try and you point for ages and the thing is like, please, you know
Point your thing at the screen gets lost or the ones that are just badly calibrated obviously, but
When it's all working, you know
What do you guys think of motion controls, uh, not a fan at the moment maybe that'll change
I just think that it's contextual i'm okay with it when it's good
Right my extensive review. I just like the bad games. I like the good games. There we go. Yeah, that's my hot take
All this surreptitious return of motion alex friedrich said you mean privileged party
You can help me
Immersive sure but mechanically better right now. We're just seeing a repeat of motion control. Thanks in parts. I mean it's definitely improved
I mean fucking hell if you look back at like older motion control shit
um
I'm thinking like do you do you guys ever play with the like plug and play motion control stuff from like, uh early 2000s?
No
Uh that and other ones like it like if you compare that to just any motion controls that are released with new technology today
We've absolutely advanced
Oh, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And this is the thing. It's I'd agree that it's slow, but we're getting there
For the fact that vr has itself heralded the surreptitious return of motion controllers to begin with which outside of the way
All fucking failed probably because they were all desperately copying the way as a result
So outside of the really really successful thing that did it it all failed because they were all trying to copy the really really successful thing
in
If there was a successful word that you
It was pretty bad. Yeah, I I didn't play with the itoy any of you guys
Yeah, yeah, me and jay will laugh about it earlier. That was it really bad
That was good. Well, it was good for me when I was the age that it came out
Casual like like I said the window washing game is where
You wave your hands across in front of you basically and you just see it on your tv as you look like clean up your tv screen
That's about it
I remember the boxing one. There was like a one where you punched a robot. That was yeah
Oh
Yeah, it's all
Casual casual shit. It was no like, you know immersive like sci-fi game or something like that. At least that's from my memory
Are we gonna say something bringy oh no, I wasn't
History is repeating itself with a game library that so far consists primarily of gimmicky tech demos and interactions that are needlessly complex compared to
Just pushing. Why wouldn't there be gimmicky tech demos though? It's like
Brand new technology exploring all different ways to do a thing. So each tech demo we're gonna focus on one element
You know pong is just a
Tech demo
I'm, okay with it as long as yeah because there were some full-fledged releases. He was playing one of them
It was the um until dawn like spin-off game
Like you get completed yet, but you also get a bunch of stuff where they're like
Hey, does this aspect work and then some of them take off and become full games
Yeah, isn't that how leopard dead got started?
It was like a test and then it became a full thing. What was that portal? I can't remember
Sounds like something portal would be
Uh, well leopard did you say leopard then or it was it was one or the other or both?
Yeah, and I know portal was done by a small studio then valve picked them up
Yeah, yeah, I was just basically saying that like a lot of things start out as ideas and then
Uh, yeah concepts and then something becomes a bit. Yeah, surely everything pretty much
Well, I was gonna say if you bought vr and you were like i've played a few full releases
Let's check out some of these gimmicky tech demos. Why not look at the top rated ones
Does anyone do that on their phone for games? They're like, uh
I'll check out this that you like have a game
We have to draw I don't know like lines and then have a ball reach a cup
It's like the most basic idea be like no, it's kind of fun while waiting for the dentist or something
Yeah, this is all natural is what i'm trying to say
I don't there are games like vr doesn't just have to play games that were made for vr though
Like I desperately want to play subnautica and superhot in vr
I'd like to play resneal seven in vr. That could be fun
so like
Loads of games that people already play have got vr and they will be more immersive in vr
so
I mean shit this one game I was playing was um
You like defend a castle that's randomly generated or has levels or whatever
and then you just gotta with bow and arrow just shoot at uh
A random attacking guys or soldiers and like you get
You got to well
It like slowly scales up with the enemies and like, you know
They start wearing that armor and then you gotta get two like head shots to the head to kill them kind of thing
but it's like super fun with the vive controllers to shoot a bow and arrow and like judge that well and like, you know get it like
Adapt to the uh, like the weight or the uh, like the feel of like the arrow drop and everything
So once you get it working, you're probably like fucking like leg last mate. You're like it's not on the shit
And that's just like a right and that game is just there's like no story or anything like that
It's literally just that and then like I think it's progressively got stages or or it might be randomly generated
I didn't play it long enough to
No, but this looks a good shit
A fucking button like sure
It's cute to have a game where you physically reload a gun by grabbing a clip with one controller and ramming it near the other
Controller to put it in the gun but in normal games you just press a button
Well, this isn't a normal game according to you
It's a tech demo idea thing and it'd probably be that they combine a whole bunch of ideas into full-fledged vr games
That's the goal. Anyways from what I can tell
Just press the reload button, you know, if you want to reload the gun just find the button
I don't know about that. Did you guys find the idea of reloading a physical like
magazine into a gun pretty awesome get better at it
You can get fat you can yeah
You're actually doing it, you know, you don't just have to wait for an animation
You can get really quick at it and your skill, you know
You can win or lose based on how well you can reload instead of just pressing a button
That's that sounds really cool
Alex Fringy, do you like the idea of reloading guns or just like oh fuck it. It's a button get over it
I mean, I feel like it'd be cool in some games
To be able to actually do a lot of the game
I forget the game's name, but it's basically cow strike but in vr
And that'd be that'd be cool
It's a uh, well, right vr is bad
I think imagine like the most popular one or one of the more popular ones
Imagine like throwing a grenade and having to pull the pin, you know
Maybe there's so many like this. There's little things we're like, ooh
That's so cool
And then some people when they play enough of that they go back to normie games and they're like, you know
What can't be doing this?
I can't play non-privileged games
Well, it's funny you said this because you think of like uh, far cry too where you had weapons
You know weapons started to break down and then you had to heal yourself and you had to you know
It's like people like that sort of micromanagement
Yeah, like imagine how cool it would be if you had to do it for real
What do you mean he's just casually advocating like oh just just do a button i'm like, I don't know man
I like I mean i'm bored for an option. Sure, but I probably would be picking the physical reload. I think that's really cool
Yeah
Well, if it's competitive thing you should have the uh, you should have it be the same for everyone
but um
It depends because it could become the competitive thing
I like again i'd say just option because this is the thing
Um, there might be some people out there who are like it's faster to do the physical reload and you'd be like what?
And then you watch them do it and you're like, whoa
Okay. Yeah, you know like they could be really skilled at it instead of just pressing the button and doing like the animation
But what about those people who physically can't play the games well
They can watch it
Oh if they're blind
They can hear it
What if what if they don't like hearing they can rub their cheek against the screen and absorb the information that
Yeah, I don't have nothing to say to that
Just press it and then you reload the gun because that's convenient, you know
It puts you back into the actual gameplay rather than you're picking up a clip and putting it well in this case
Reloading the gun physically would be a part of the gameplay
Yes
Retention filled to do that. Otherwise it'd just be infinite ammo because yeah. Yeah, let's just fuck it. No reloads
Boring reloading is boring
You just press a button like just just press a button. Why is he jerking him up?
Oh my just like before we're looking at a glut of
That's already been demonstrated vapid experiences that draw out
That's just not true for so many people that I can't agree with him. Like the idea is like well, it's all vapid
It's like but there's loads of people who fucking adore this shit
Copy that I don't know if it's that vapid he needs to qualify it if you want to
Argue against it get some polls get some get some like first-hand accounts of playing the games from people who are more cynical about it
Look at your poor interactions and make them
To perform than using regular controls and just pressing the buttons that make the shit work
We're already staring across at on rails experiences with restricted interactivity because for all the point he's so he's right that there have existed
games on rails with maybe motion controls and stuff but like
The idea that if he's referring to something in like the early thousands or even late 90s, these are gonna be so much better
And once they get to a certain degree of better, it'll start to actually interest a larger amount of people
It'd be like oh shit
so
It's kind of on rails
But you can still maybe move left and right or you can look
Anywhere you want and then eventually you have full freedom and the on rails part is essentially dropped because it's just like they've improved
Enough of the mechanics that
Those things aren't required. I just see it all as steps
And people have had interest in all these things, uh along the way
It's just that they've never been able to sustain their own market. I suppose up until now
Yeah, and I think he wanted it to be that this was just another stepping stone that was going to fail in the markets
But it didn't really because they're still going strong now, right? There's still competition between all three
Well, yeah, like I said, they are releasing that they well the next level or the next
The steam the full sequel teams doing one right? Oh, they already done. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah valves making a one as well
Wonder if that'll uh kick start more interest
Making games too, but yeah, this is valve we're talking about. So pinch of salt
Praise these privilege goggles get they offer more problems than opportunities
There's so much for a developer to actually figure out before the game's being made
How are we going to let the player move around without them barfing everywhere? How are we going to improve?
Are they gonna move without barfing everywhere?
um
I don't know. I think most people can get away with it
Ah
What if they want to move and buff?
Yeah, yeah, you gotta have the option
We'll want to do that. It's like a stream crossfit
Control since they're back now. How are we going to justify this game being in VR and not just a regular fucking video game?
most
uh
Most are available for both typically right a lot of games are like oh you can play it in VR
but then there are some
VR specific games and so
Is he referring to the idea that like maybe a borderlands 4 is VR only how are they going to react to that?
It's like I don't think they do that at least not now
But they might do more common. Yeah, they might do one day to try and use it as a selling point
It's like hey, you want to play the new
Fucking deus ex get it on VR. Yeah, they'll probably do a spin-off or something
Why are we doing it be cool to see a new technology spinning like actually creating loads of new franchises
Because that's what will happen, right?
Hopefully, yeah, like there's an IP that was made specifically for VR and it turns out to be really good
And then people like oh, I can't wait for the next, you know, uh, and then it like you get spin-offs and other media and
Yeah, it could happen
Good time. Whenever new something new is developed you get big new IPs, right? That's how it works
100% of the time in VR and not just a regular fucking video game
Why are we doing any of this again? When you have to hobble your game to fit the experience rather than create an experience from your game
So by being in VR you're automatically hobbled I find that interesting because couldn't I just say like a
A book is hobbled compared to a movie or vice versa
Yeah
Certain aspects VR can't do I guess that normal games can but there's a lot of things normal games can't do that VR can as well
so
Yeah, I was gonna say you can make this exact same argument the other way around for games that aren't in VR
It's a different medium
I think I think that's a common theme throughout this video as he's judging VR as if it's like
You know, you can pop in gears of war call of duty and VR blah blah blah
It's like well, that's you switching over to a whole different thing. It's like nope, they're all the same really
You're doing shit the wrong way round and that's always been my biggest issue whenever some new wave of the future tech rolls around
They put demoing the tech first and making the game second. There is don't they need to demo the tech first
No, I think I think he's trying to like say like, you know, they
They get using the game
Wherever comes like this expense of the gate of the game itself like they're focusing gimmicks instead of making a game that's yeah
I mean in this stage, especially when you made this video, I don't know that seemed like the right thing to do
You've got to figure everything out and see what about it is the stuff that people want
And i'm pretty sure they were
You know, I guess if if they have a full-fledged game like the uh, the until dawn one
But its gimmick is that it's an on-rail shooter
Would that count then as a 10 to a tech demo a tech demo?
Or would that be a full-fledged? I don't know
It's just using tech demo as words for bad bad thing
Yeah, that's that's the the keys and the line in and as I said earlier some tech demos can evolve into like
You know amazing shit just because the the one gimmick they had was so good
I have a feeling the super hot probably started that way
Oh my wouldn't it browser based super hot at first? I played it when it was still a startup
I can't remember much. It was cool. It was like it was a kickstarter. I think yeah, it was like three levels of
It was better than it got it got way up its own ass when it released fully
Wait, uh des bullshit said I can't yank the mag out of other people's guns and put them in my own gun in pc
Counter-strike, but I catted vr
Yeah, sounds amazing
Yeah, I think you kind of pavlov
that
Oh fucking wait, can you do that to like opponents?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I assume so
Wow, that would be really annoying if you're doing it to your allies
Well, I was gonna say if you do it to your allies there's situations where that might be handy like you're a better shot
But you know
Just imagine your buddy's about to shoot somebody you pull the ammo out
Go get him buddy.
results are less intuitive less convenient less fun experiences very few games i've played are actually able to
Demonstrate that they're better as a result of the vr
And they wouldn't be superior if they just
And even the vr games I like and sure yeah, I'd like a couple I really like a couple I like how he had to
Acknowledge that because this has essentially been a complete takedown video. He's like, oh, yeah, by the way
Actually some fun in there
Like oh, I'm just watching pavlov highlights right now. I'm just like yeah, this is looks it looks fun
Oh, we are gay
I can only turn my head around and be amazed that the world exists behind me so many times before I properly get
Over it and what happens when I get over doesn't that sound more like it's just not for him at this point
I mean, yeah
Yes
I mean, well, yeah, I say that doing full well, that's the case but you know
That sense of wonder all this shit will likely end up in the corner with my connect and my fucking gamepad as an elevator pitch
Virtual reality sounds like a fertile flatbed for unlimited possibilities
But when you look at the games built primarily for vr you start to realize just how limited it actually is
looking at the first wave of games is not indicative of the
Technologies limits if you say that about literally any fucking console or pc gear that came out you'd be wrong
Yeah, if you said that about video games as a medium, you know, like oh, it's just a bunch
It's just like 10 pixels on the screen moving up and down pong. Wow
So impressive. How is this gonna be better than tv?
If you look at video games as a whole they seem to be a flatbed for creativity
But then you look at pong and you realize that it's very limited like no, how is this better than playing table tennis?
That's true and table tennis has like, you know, good graphics good fps compared. Uh, you have multiple players
table tennis
Is it excludes the disabled?
Oh fuck well then pong it is
It amounts to more or less the same bullshit
We saw six years ago when sony and microsoft were desperately trying to convince us to move and connect were worth a shit
It's so very fitting in fact
But psvr uses the resurrected corpses of moved controllers an apt reminder of vr's roots and probable future
or a sign of progression
Right now figure out what works and what doesn't well, it's it's more of a it lets
You use sony's, uh less. Well, uh sony's earlier attack and you can use it for the new stuff
Yeah, you don't have to rebuy that'd be neat
As a you'll always find a way to spit it as a bad thing
Oh rip
Ultimately for all the hype and drooling over the big vr machines the most consistently convenient and accessible vr
Experiences come from mobile offerings like cardboard gear and is that true?
You just said it's true. So is it true?
What what exactly is true the the well i'll just play it again
When sony and microsoft were desperately trying to convince us to move and connect were worth a shit
It's so very fitting in fact that psvr uses the resurrected corpses of moved controllers an apt reminder of vr's roots
And probable future ultimately for all the hype and drooling over the big vr machines
The most consistently convenient and accessible vr experience has come from consistently convenient and accessible
Of course, it's the most accessible. It's the cheapest and you get like fucking cardboard or a headset a piece of cardboard
Of course is convenient and accessible. Yeah, i'd misinterpreted that as him's trying to say like it was better
But it's like I guess it is better in those regards
Yeah, yeah, those are the pros of it. It's cheap like really cheap
Assuming you already have a smartphone super cheap
Yeah, at that point you just like I said, some of them already need that cardboard fucking thing like come on from mobile
Probably build one yourself. I think people have
Sure, you do. Yeah
Cardboard gear and presumably daydreaming simpler. Yes, but cheaper easier to use less of a mess
Simpler easier to use less of a mess like all three of those things are can mean the same thing. Yeah, and
One of the pieces of the footage that he had highlighted in that um, i've seen it jess has got it
Oh, my girlfriend's got it on her uh, her phone
literally, you just point it at the star on the sky and
Based off of your gps and like, you know, whatever stars in the well in your point of view
It like shows up like a little highlight of a of the well the star side, you know
And literally if you don't even have to be in vr mode to use that you just kind of like
Like kind of just look up at the sky just go. Oh look
There's such and such over there and there's such and such over there
It that's not
I like how he says that they're consistently more reliable and enjoyable thing. Yeah
Apparently wearing your phone to look at the stars instead of just looking at them
Yeah, it's not even like that's not even in a game
That's that's not even like that's a little bit experience. It's literally just a go. Oh looking at my sky look all the stars
That's literally it. You know, it's it's good
I want to highlight as well, by the way the whole because there's a throwback to fucking episode like eight or whatever
but
When when tro said narrative tripling in whatever bullshit you said in the in the quinton video
when you're writing
Uh videos like i'm sure all of you are already aware of this
I mean
Yeah, alex and frankie
But when when you're like trying to describe why something is better or worse than another thing having three reasons is great
Because it makes it sound like there's a lot of it. It's a pattern. It's just that's it's the case three
Yeah, right. It applies to a shit ton of things. And so if all you've got to say
Is the well, I mean it's easier to use it's like, okay, what else can you say? Uh, it's easier to like
Put together like okay, that's two. It's like, uh, it's easier
Sort of approach that you're like all three of those the same thing. Nope
Just say all three of them
Yeah, it makes this sound like it's so much better. You'll have casual listens. It'll be like shit, man
Yeah, the mobile one is way better
And that's embarrassing because mobile bad yeah and the experience
Yeah, it is a complete of experience. I've I've used the i've used one of the samsung headsets as well
and yeah, it's literally tech demos as he might as jib said and
just
Oh, like this horror one where you just sat in a bed and like you just in the bedroom
And you're just watching like a doll just kind of like poke his head out of like the cupboard and then like under the bed
kind of shit, okay
Yeah, it's really
It's really meh
I I don't see the point of it on on phones for the most part. I but I don't know i'm not aware of any
software or games that are like, you know could use it then, you know gaming on mobile phones is a
thing in any way
I'm i'm at the comment section of the video now and i'm just seeing two equally bad takes clash with each other in
Oh, yeah
One person saying oh you're exactly right
They are privileged goggles and then someone else is coming back with no basically anyone who can't afford them
Just needs to work harder and then they'll be fine. It's like
So
One person is like yeah, fuck these fuck this gimmicky shit
It's just a status symbol for privileged people and there's someone else going
exact quote hang on
Um
Anyone who wants to get it can if they cannot it's because the it's not because of privilege
It's just because they don't work hard enough
I'm glad that we've got the the best takes on the video
There you go. Jesus. Yeah, consistently convenient and accessible vr
Experiences come from mobile offerings like cardboard gear and presumably daydream
simpler yes
But cheaper easier to use less of a mess and the phones they attach to already trade in smaller less intricate games
So you don't feel like anything was sacrificed in the process of making them plus it's way easier to get pawned for that shit
And that's an incredibly crucial point after spending the last few minutes shitting all over virtual reality. You may think I hate it
I don't well. I despise the htc vibe, but I don't hate vr as a concept
I have had fun with games like until dawn rush of blood and a couple of other psvr games
I can't yet talk about but a common thread running through the games
I've enjoyed most is that they'd mechanically work just as well if the vr wasn't part of them rush of blood works as a silly
Arcade light gun shooter
Yeah, but that's a part of the experience of vr is to have the world
Attached to your face as opposed to you can look around your room and suddenly not be in the game
Yeah, so like the idea there's like it can function as a normal game. It's like yeah
But it wouldn't lose something
And then the motion control aspect of you aim at targets to shoot them as opposed to
Using a mouse
You know, there's something there, too
Well, well the thing to think about is the position and use of the camera
Uh from like, you know, obviously in first person games, that's the closest that you'll get to what a vr experience is anyway
But then you've also got it
You also got to add in shit like, you know
Like head tilted like the fact you actually like you can turn your head upside down and look at whatever you're looking at, you know
Yeah
Whilst in the fps, you know, you you know, you can't normally unless like unless it's like a flight sim or something like that
You can't really picture
The x and y axes. Oh, well
Whichever the tilt axis i'm fucking stupid
this is literally like
Watching a movie and then go and then like walking out and going
Okay, so why wasn't that a book?
You don't really lose that down
Uh, I know I try my best not to be a twat when i'm like watching something or or reading something and I also think
Oh, it would have been better as a book. Oh, it would have been better as a manga. It would even better as a film
It's just like stab
You remove the aspects that make it vr could have been yeah, so therefore it should have been
Yeah
The vr wasn't part of them rush of blood works as a silly arcade like gun shooter
I also like that when he says that he absolutely shows a game that would be worse if it wasn't nvr
Like the one with the the ball bouncing. Oh, yeah, totally wouldn't work with like a controller or whatever. I mean
It can it's just the
Yeah, the perspective would be
Different that would be as fun maybe maybe yeah
I I don't know what we could say about it because this is the thing if you have even wst
You can just control the fucking thing that way but you could clearly tell it was being done with motion
like almost looked like his eyes like wherever he looked uh the target went which is
Probably do that without vr. So
There's a multiplayer game and again, this is the same situation
I don't know. I I don't know if that was to do with the fact that he said he played games
He can't talk about yet. Maybe like early access stuff. I don't know a decade ago with motion control that the game industry
Refuses to learn it's lesson over make the good game first. Worry about the gimmicky accoutrements afterwards
Well, if they're trying to show off what the point of vr is over another thing and they just release a game that plays like a normal game
That's it. Like they're not really uh showing off why you should get vr instead of just why you should get that game
So I totally get why there's going to be a focus on the mechanics that relate to vr
in the games that release on vr
Because even I would be like let's just say that I don't know a really good game comes out on vr and you play it
and you're like I didn't
Really need vr for this like there was nothing in it that had much at all to do with vr outside of
I guess you'd still have the you can look inside the world. You can have the thing attached to you
I don't know. It's it's strange because I
We're gonna want vr aspects, right? We actually do want the gimmicks the whole reason we pick up vr in the first place
As opposed to just playing on a pc's those are my assumption
Yeah
I don't know. I know he's saying because it's a the cost of the game being good and i'm like, well, I mean
I don't know that that's true
Like pretty sure we can have good games add vr gimmicks in them as well
And hopefully there's they become full-fledged enough to not be gimmicks, I guess is what i'm saying
Well, like i'm watching pavlov right now and
It's clearly cloning like cara strike, uh go or source in terms of like in asphatic and the design
But then it's purely from a vr point and it's like yeah, it could be done in
traditional game style but
The whole point of this one is that is vr and it looks it actually looks really fun. Actually
Yeah, a lot of people have been mentioning it
It turns out your game works better without the gimmicks don't fucking use them
There is fun to be had with virtual reality. I fully happily cheerily admitted
But with so many barriers to entry and so many problems getting in the way of the experience
So many hindrances put between the player and the game its long-term worth is something
I feel has been vastly overestimated by the zealous cult that's grown up around the technology. That might be true
I don't know what the zealous cult have been saying about vr to be honest with you
I'm just liking that you're saying there's no predicting the future but like you could have done it a lot better than this
He still he does this whole thing. He constantly does it there's no predicting the future
But despite what the old saying says past events can be a pretty good indicator of future performance
Well, yeah past experience has taught me anything about these cult breeding innovations in tech
It's like earth has never been burnt to a crisp. So that's never gonna happen, right?
Isn't everything like a like a uh have like a little a niche piece of technology first and then it grows
Like surely smartphones when they first, you know, you could have made the first month smartphones were around
Like pda's there used to be pda's
Things like that and when blackberries were called displays of affection
No, the pda personal like it's he's fucking with him
Got the zealous cult of vr versus the toxic brood
Oh to be fair. I didn't I don't know what pda stands for in that context, but I know what it is
personal data anus yeah
Oh
Just gonna let that sit there, all right
Taught me that the more people scream about something being the future the more likely it is to become everything becomes ancient history eventually
Oh, yeah, that's how time works
What is that mascot by the way, they don't know
Uh, it's not the is that your skull no
It's uh, it's not like the i don't know what it's called jersey something. Um, don't know
Folks we have a lot of fun on the position I think you could just pause the rest of it if you could do it
Yeah, yeah, it's just gonna be outros and skit and shit now probably
I don't I i've just been watching this guy. Uh shoot people in uh Pavlov
With a uh a car 98. It looks really fun
People are just saying it's just a bird skull. I thought it was like a reference to
Ringy skull yep
Funnily enough after I edited the what duration did the thrust go in I went to go and play some more
The VR stuff because i'm reviewing VR games for the gymquisition.com. Don't know if yeah. Yeah, right. I guess we are pretty much done. Yeah, um
VR is doing fine from what I understand and it's probably going to get better
And cheaper and then it'll be interesting to see what effect steams uh
Version will have and um, it'll only it'll happen one day
It'll start to sell really well people more people will hear about it and we'll check out videos people using it and be like, oh fuck
Maybe there's maybe we should check this out instead of buying. Um, you know, whatever else
And
And I think the it's traced back traced back to uh, this generation that came out when he made this video and
As much as they failed previously
I think that we were to expect them to do pretty well. Uh, the ones that are out now and they have been
surviving they haven't like
crashed or anything
We did it first video of the 24-hour stream completed
We're already double the length of a normal podcast
Um, you know normal people do
We're nearly up to an average length of an efap in like an hour or so god was so pathetic. I know
Where's rags? I don't know
Set your messages. Um, he's just forgotten
He's like it's tomorrow, right? I'm like, oh god
um
so I guess that knocks that one out of the running and
This was gonna be one that I was gonna have rags for but I mean all all of us have seen this film
and um
They it
It's this this is this should be a good one
uh
So this one this one's called this is this is actually a contentious topic
But I I think that uh, we'll be able to discuss it at length here because me and fringy know this film back to front
Uh alex likes it for sure. I know that and so does jay. Uh, jay probably knows it pretty well, too
This video is called why captain america civil war sucks
Oh
This is the video by that guy which guy the guy that we mentioned earlier
No
Recognize this. No, I don't I don't think so. No
The guy who made the video about why spider verse is bad
Oh
No, that's davis. Do it. No, I don't I don't have his video
Do you mind the site? I gotta go to tyler. I gotta go for it. We'll have a chat. That's not allowed
out
Bruce
The what
Using catheter. He's not evolved he's not evolved critic
But you said what?
Catheter, why do you not know what things are jay? Oh, I do know what that is. Why do you know what that is?
I I thought it was in I thought I assumed for some reason that that was in reference to the video and i'm like
Hang on. What must have been said that
And yeah memes are gonna have to be delayed until rags gets here like I don't know what else to say
I know
I might be asleep by the end two hours and 19 minutes
Someone send a carrier pigeon to rags desperately await the memes
and the quiz
Yeah, that's the other thing. I really want to do
Um, you know what? Well while we're waiting for alex. I need to find this video has like a plot summary
That's weird and then it goes into criticism. So we're gonna have to find that
Interpreted for all the flop and padding this film tries to deceive you
This film is not about the avengers
Maybe maybe were there ready? Let me go back a bit
Actually about civil war was advertised this. All right, we'll stay here. Oh, yeah
What did you think of it? Shay? I don't remember. I just know I recognize the style
Maybe you've seen another of this guy's videos
Well, then
I'll start to it. I had to start otherwise i'll never be able to make it for the 24 hours. You kidding me?
I'm a
I'm a special I have seen this I have seen this video
Are you excited?
I don't remember it very well. All right. Well, here we go. We'll start here
Like I said, i'm pretty sure it's a plot summary of this
Is a film about heroes clashing about a penultimate decision that would ripple down through every character
But this was false advertising at its point the only
Why did you say that see should I be going from the beginning or should
Actually, no reason not to go from the beginning right unless it's all right. Fine. We're doing stuff to cut out
Hopefully we can long ago listen to most of the one man stood against the masses and told a great truth
The man was cast out by the masses because of this
But promised to return should the need arise to speak his mind once more video starts with him jacking himself up
And the masses they hated him because he told the truth
I love that
Wasted the thought of never seeing him again
But alas the man returns once more to fulfill his greatest promise
Why couldn't you just use music from civil war
Why are you using the avengers theme? Maybe that's a subtle jab at how it's like an avengers film. I don't know
All right. Yeah again to clarify this is called why captain america civil war sucks. So
It's he's taking a stand like if he had said why it's you know
It's okay or something. I'd be like, yeah, this is probably like that sucks. Like whoa
Does he mean it gives us the suck? Yes
Isn't this copyrighted
Calm down with the music
That's right ladies and gentlemen like an abused spouse
I return again to brace against the crowd of marvel fanboys and now I couldn't just be that the movie's actually good
I I get called a marvel fanboy as much as that may be accurate
In terms of how I might define a fanboy like do the fact that i've ripped into marvel films a lot count for nothing
like well, it's like I mean
Generally like my view is that there are only about seven or eight of them that I consider to be really good
And then there's like, you know seven or eight that are okay
And then there's about six or seven that are complete garbage if i've got my numbers, right?
Yeah, because we did have a look at it all didn't we like we were curious where the line is drawn
And funnily enough the ones that are the worst of the ones that made the most money with the exception of civil war
like black panther captain marvel
Um, my man three man three. Yeah, they're the most successful standalone one
I don't know. I don't know
Claim to the heavens why I feel captain america. So why I feel is the worst marvel film
Well, it's his opinion guys can't criticize it. I'm not saying that's what he's saying. I'm kidding
Yeah as of this video's upload
I know a handful of you have been eagerly awaiting this video
So i'd like to explain why it's taking me longer than usual to get it out there
I've spent the last few weeks with my personal team of lawyers trying to work out these larger companies and prevent them from blocking
My videos immediately when I upload them. Well use clips of under 10 seconds. There you go
I say under eight seconds just to be careful
That's the fucking game of thrones video has been a nightmare. I kind of want to put that in the top comment
Uh pinned
Or be like there is no portion of this video that is a constant source of game of thrones that goes beyond like 7.5 seconds
You might not think that watching it, but that's true. It's a nightmare to get it done
After much consulting I believe I have finally come up with the solution I
Introduced to you all the fair you scream tm
Everything I place in this screen is off limits to the legal teams of these larger companies
Not only that but i've also managed to squeeze into the design some
Anyway back to the intro. I can't
Don't know
Maybe chanting of those keyboard warriors preparing to go man. This video starts off defensive, doesn't it?
Yeah, go to war against me not a keyboard warrior. I don't know we're all keyboard warriors. We fight with our keyboards, right?
slash microphones
Stop acting like you are warriors
Okay, what's going on? I got the quote, right? Oh, yeah
Holy he just went and described me and rags as like holy warriors fighting for a crusade
All right, wow, that's a bit of an overreaction
Is like the third crusades busting into jerusalem
In hopes of coming for you fanboys down and
Civil war is on a technical level damn near perfect. All right. What do you mean by that?
I know he's going to breeze through it, but I would like it to
Explain what he says the pacing it's well paced. Hating isn't technical pacing is
i'm sick of pacing oh
Dude, I hope I hope my ukulele video put you on to uh
That even more the amount of fucking people who say the pacing's bad without qualifying it. It's like
The thing is like here's an example unsharded for has poor pacing in the first half
Why is that? Well, if you were to replay it again, you'd have to deal with like two hours of non gameplay stuff
walking
talking picking up items
It's boring
I was like and even that's not a very good argument. Like it's a pretty better. It's better than nothing for you
Other thing the piece is bad
Pacing technical means like visual and sound right as in like I can see what's happening
The sound is well balanced
Not pacing pacing is like the writing
I think he means like things that you can
things that you can
Place a standard on let's see what he says. Let's let's give him an opportunity
The pacing the cinematography the choreography the acting everything was above and beyond
Technical novel film so I do have to give props to the film for that
My issues with the film extend far deeper than the visuals, however
So i'm going to start off with a quick plot recap followed by an in-depth analysis to the core themes in civil war
Of course, if you want to skip the quick recap, you can always click
The time code can you put the numbers so I could have done that?
Yeah, but you know
He probably does have annotations and they got booped out of videos. So
Yeah, that was a really fun thing that you shipped it
Did you see like their excuse for removing annotations was that no one used them anymore?
What they stopped people from using them for like a year?
Wow, yeah, well I was going to say but that wouldn't be an argument to get rid of all of them though
Would it would be an argument? Yeah, I know
So they people stopped using them for like, you know
They stopped you from being able to put them into new videos for like a year
And then after that they went it looks like people stopped using annotations. We're going to remove the videos
How incompetent let's get to the plots and ops opens in 1991 winter soldiers program by hydra sent on an extraction mission to obtain super soldier
Formula intro lagos captain america and squad deal with crossbones marvel shows maturity by bringing a villain from a previous film crossbone dies
What the fuck tony is sad then explain why did he gloss over like the catalyst for the plot?
honestly
I kind of want to just skip this bit because I want to get to his points because all of
The problem with summarizing like this is that we go. Well, what about this? He's like guys. He's like doing a bit
Like, okay
The wolves have to wait until he's serious. I guess the death of her son avengers
Hq wanda grieves over her mistake secretary of defense yells at everyone
Cleveland zemo finds book and wants information on
December 16
1991 hail hydra avengers hq sukovia courts deep gets a text peggy died london peggy's funeral also peggy's niece
Vienna you and me this is completely useless as an actual plot summary
So the only reason this is here is for comedy
Because I was gonna say the people who haven't seen the movie will be confused as fuck and the people who have are kind of just like
Okay
I mean the okay
Bucky did it everyone wants bucky zemo can read
Of course steve stalks bucky
Please find bucky the raid redemption three black panther fight car chase jail vision wants to fuck wanda also
She's confined at avengers hq berlin bucky is locked up
Steve same and panther slapped on the wrist tony and steven room civil war zemo somehow interrogates bucky emp
Bucky's reprogrammed everyone fights bucky steve kidnaps bucky zemo goes to moscow
Bucky reveals to steven sam that there are more winter soldiers in moscow sam knows a guy
Tony is given 36 hours to bring in steve bucky and sam tony needs back up queens spider-man avengers hq haka
Wait, no one cares about you. Why do betrays vision because the script needs or two airport fight
Zemo lets people find out about his
Is that a joke that cinemasins did I don't I don't this is the thing about this section
My reason i'm playing this section out instead of skipping it is because I don't know when it ends. So
Sorry
Which one it must be nearly over it must be nearly over all right the joke um
Paul rudd's a national treasure. I specifically remember. I think they did do that one
They did they said he's a national treasure and they took off a sin
So that seems less like a reference and more like just I don't know
I was just I'm just waiting for when he gets to he's gonna make points
a joke from
Cinemasins revealed and everyone's a moron for not realizing the face swap tech is a thing and that buck arrest is like 11 hours away
From vienna. So there's no fucking way bucky could have done it tony goes wait. That's actually criticism. Let's go back
All right, fine
Paul rudd is a national treasure zemo lets people find out about his retarded plan stephen bucky fly to moscow part of zemo's plan is
Revealed and everyone's a moron for not realizing the face swap tech is a thing and that buck arrest is like 11 hours away from vienna
So there's no fucking way bucky could have done it. It doesn't matter if he did it or not
I am and actually said this it's the the optics the whole thing
Far as the world is the way a bucky did it. It doesn't matter if he actually did it or not
That's a good point. Hang on. Just
The face swap thing should be you're so much of a bigger thing in the mcu than it is now
It's gonna be like it's like the time travel. It was in winter soldier as well
Well, yeah, but in civil war they said prosthesis. They didn't say it was the same holographic tech
Why would he have that? I don't know. Why would anyone have it?
It's gonna be like the uh, the time travel thing. I mean probably there are so many situations
I'm sure it would have been immensely useful, but they just didn't use it
In avenge is where people are questioning buccares being 11 hours from vienna
I I don't know how far away I don't know that either. My geography is uh is worse than my biology that way
I'm not european. So
Bucharest vienna flights one hour and 40 minutes
I guess she means 11 hours by car, but why would we assume that bucky can't travel by many different manners?
No
Just has a joke
I don't know. Yeah, that seems like a weird point thinking about it
Like we don't know how how bucky can travel unless what I just searched was inaccurate. I don't know
No way are they 11 hours apart whether it's 11 hours doesn't really matter 12-hour drive
map says
Yeah, so why couldn't you go on a plane?
Does he have an passport?
Why couldn't he fake it he's the winter soldier
Yeah, but what about his metal arm?
Where where oh, that's I don't know. That's a good question
You surely but there are people with prosthetics in real life that have to just be like, oh, yeah
I've got a metal armor. Yeah, i've got that
But most people
No, not if it's not if it's the bone like if you have a bone replaced
I guess they would see it though. Yeah, the metal detectors would present a problem. That's interesting
I want to see that play out now
I wanted them to be like I wonder if they would be like, oh, that's your prosthetic arm or they would be like
You know, hey
No, you can't you can't have a metal arm. Stop it
Well, I was like
If I don't know if if you had like
I don't know I don't think there's a way to do it
Um, the thing is though if he's working with
You know who whoever we think he may or may not be working with he's obviously doing terrorist attacks
Then we could assume he's funded he could have some kind of private helicopter
There's a lot of different things that could happen to get him to travel to that distance
Why do we assume he's limited to a car?
That's could he actually just take the arm off and put it in the tray? Oh shit. Yeah, we don't know if that's possible
We don't know well i'm suggesting we don't even know that he had to have the metal arm could he not have a
I mean fuck you. This is the thing
I'm in the hold like if someone if someone's criticism assumes limitations, then we have to actually explore if these limitations are valid
That's what we're doing right now
I know I know it's just whatever Bucky could get through airport security debate. This is like
I feel like that would be a really good comedy gag. Yeah
I could see that or russo's
Parted plan steven bucky fly to moscow part of zemo's plan is revealed and everyone's a moron for not realizing the face swap tech
Is a thing and that buck arrest is like 11 hours away from besides
Even if you're fully aware of face swap tech being a thing
That does not not now mean that you never assume anyone's committed any crimes
You don't go like well
Just because we've got him on video doesn't mean shit because it could have been a face swap
It's like well, we still have to fucking bring him in which is all they wanted to do with winter soldier
They didn't want to kill him
Until variations of like super serum that makes you stronger exist in the mcu. It's like
There's always new shit or there's always different tech being used that does that does the similar thing or whatever
From vienna, so there's no fucking way bucky could have done it tony goes to moscow
Steve bucky and tony agree to take zemo down zemo's full retarded plan is revealed tony is sad tony is mad fight kiss and makeup
Captain america civil war is a mixed bag. The unanimous decision is the film was amazing
It's well because that's the truth for me a lot of people have fucked up and thought it was good
I do not deny this film is a spectacle and is a well put together film in general
But my opinion of it is undoubtedly in the minority
I find it humorous fitting and rather ironic that this film and batman v superman released in the same year
Why you might ask because these two films suffered from the same fundamental flaw
They both completely failed to dial in and focus on what their films were actually about
Failed to focus in on what they're actually about
I'm not a huge fan of the word actually the more of where I watch videos
What was batman and superman? What was what was that actually about batman v superman? Obviously
I just want to hear him qualify that with like, you know, actually they're about
Uh dealing with uh losing a console
They're about they're about they're about
Yeah, I guess we're gonna have to astrology
You have to listen to what he's got for flesh on that one
Civil war was advertised as a film about heroes clashing about a penultimate decision that would ripple down through every character
Why is it penultimate? Penultimate decision that would ripple down every character. Why penultimate? Yeah
Penultimate means second last. Yeah second second last decision. Well, even if he said ultimate decision i'd be like
the last decision
I think he might just be trying to throw words at you there. Oh, yeah, that's I feel like that's what's happening
Actually are controlling
But this was false advertising
Okay, so it's not the film is about heroes clashing
They literally have a fucking fight where they split half and half over their ideals as to what should be done next in terms of
Their approach as protectors of earth
They butt heads constantly
There's several arguments between the characters about what they should do
I'm curious if if it's just that it wasn't explored enough quote unquote or something
At its finest the only difference between this film and any number of others
That falsely advertise their films is that this film actually believes in its false advertisement
Explain what the hell does that mean?
The film tries so hard to make these characters drift apart
And try so hard to give the illusion that the plot of this film revolves around this premise and a lot of people bought into this
Uh, it does
It's but there's other stuff going on. So yeah, it's not the only thread i'm
I don't really know how to approach breaking this down. I'm confused
You were deceived but you were deceived into believing the thing they wanted the believing which they believed as well. You're like, oh
They tricked themselves
She said that the movie tries to do the things that are what it's about. That's like so and is what it's about then
Yeah, it failed things. Well, he kept saying it tries hard as well. It's like what's okay
What do you mean by that?
Yeah
Are you giving it? Are you giving this shit for fucking?
attempting to
I don't know
How did you say that name film revolves around this premise and a lot of people bought into this at its core
They buried under layers of fluff civil war has two major themes that propel the core plot
Okay, those two themes being bonds and betrayal bonds and betrayal those aren't themes. So
I guess you could argue it's um, um a consistent
Motif of an element it would be a it would be a motif theme theme is very uh,
You can use theme to mean a lot of things
I've been criticized for this in my past people like you use theme wrongs
Like I don't think you're aware of how many ways you can use the width theme you can use
I could say there's a theme of red throughout a film
And if everything is shot in red places, I would be accurate a theme means a lot of things like but
If you were to tell me what the biggest
Like consistent element of of civil war is I'd probably say standing your ground like the film is about everybody sort of
uh
Sticking with their principles their core principles and it leads to all kinds of conflict because everybody
Has what you would may call moral or respectable principles, but they can't coexist
um
Yeah
bonds and betrayal
I don't know about betrayal
The only betrayal would be a I don't know
Captain tell tony the du I guess yeah, but that's I don't know if that's a betrayal but rather just a failing
Yeah, uh, it does seem like it's definitely a backstab to tony but cap
Admits like it was in the in the goal of preventing more pain really
Like not just for everybody but for himself he didn't want to have to deal with that too. Yeah, because surely betrayal means
purposely screwing someone over for gain
So, oh yeah and uh, some people are saying well, it'd be betrayal of trust with it
Uh olivier said uh revenge as well
It's like yeah vengeance is huge in the movie as well with black panther story. Iron Man's ending and femo is the villain of revenge
I'm surprised he didn't say that revenge was a three line like this is the problem with themes
rags had a big rant about this on one of the recent efaps just like themes are so
Everywhere and it's not to say that they're invalid. It's just
You need some good references for us to take it seriously instead of just going bonds betrayal and I don't know
carnivals we'd be like, uh
I need I need references
I don't know that see bonds. I'm like, what are we doing with bonds? Like yeah, they avenged just their team
Yes
I'm sorry, are we gonna say free?
I just feel like is he's already sort of got it wrong. Like it's he's kind of like looking in the wrong place
And if this is going to be the through
If this is what like the review is about then it's not going to be good because he's kind of missed big things
you know, it's like
Like oh god, I don't I don't know what to say like it's just like
This is not what the film is really about. I don't think
I mean, I guess we'll have to see how he qualifies it
But I I don't think there's enough in the film that qualifies these more so than revenge or standing aground
Yeah
These themes can easily be confused with what I said before and be misinterpreted for all the fluff and padding
This film tries to deceive you with this film is not about the avengers forming teams
It is not about a civil war. This is a film about steve rogers and tony stark about their bond
How is it not simultaneously about those things?
Yeah, and like why would you say it's about them alone? They're literally the heads of each side
Yeah
The hell it's about them and it's about the rest of them as if it could only be about one
Or the other like it could only be about those two fighting or the team's fighting
It's like but no it's it's like it seems like when he watched the scene where black widow's like
It's more important that we stay together than how we stay together. He's like, oh, that's fluff. That's fluff
They're trying to trick you
I also like the idea that he tells like the rusa brothers like this is what your film is about. They're like, huh?
You bought into your own lies
Bring mindsets and beliefs a betrayal on both sides and their inevitable divorce wait betrayal on both sides
Um, how did tony betray cap?
What is he what do you think he's referring to there like the fact that captain
So i'm trying to kill bucky but that that's not the trail
Every other plot thread and character arc is thrown in for various reasons, but I will get into those specifics various reasons
I mean, I would argue that they all line up with uh supporting why each of the heroes fall on each side
A little later on right now. I want to go back and analyze if we look at this picture here, right?
So let's go from the back
Uh, okay. So hawkeye has a personal investment in wonder which is his motivation, but he also
Just says he disagrees with it. Yeah, I think his will probably be the weakest. That's why I wanted to start at the back
Yeah, um and black panthers is obvious. He wants to kill bucky one of the strongest motivations
He doesn't actually care about the accords. He just wants to be on the side that can kill bucky
and bucky is
On cap side because cap's the one defending him and the other guys are coming after him and he's been falsely accused as well. Yeah
Vision has his doctrine of the avengers create threats. Maybe there's a link
Maybe we do need to be put in check
And also also he wants everybody to like wonder because he likes wonder and he kind of feels like the best way to do that
is to
Be on the accord side
Yeah, and he said he wants to avoid catastrophe above all else. Yeah, exactly
um
Wanda is she's kind of like
She needs to define herself. She needs to like take responsibility for her own actions instead of having someone
Take them for her and tell her where to go
Um roadie is a military man. He just believes he was already on this side before this side was the thing basically
Um falcon is kind of just on cap's side because they stick together. I'm not sure if his motive I think it would be safe
Yeah, I think it'd be safe to assume that falcons
principles line up entirely with cap's
Yeah, um black widow. We know why she thinks the team needs to stay together no matter what yeah
I think the biggest line would be that uh one hand on the wheel
Yeah, yeah
And then before you do talk about uh, i'll see cap and uh, tony i'll see your spiderman and that man that are not included
in the poster right
Um, that man's a criminal
Yeah, and both of them. I think like a personal connection or ties why not?
Well, no, uh people for spiderman is connections with uh, tony, isn't it than anything else? Yeah, and that man's gonna
He looks up to uh, steve
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, well they both do that. Yeah, so it's basically personal ties and this is the thing I want to highlight
We just went through 12 characters. This is a two hour and a half movie like that's tough
And so as much as some people might say a couple of those were thin i'd be like absolutely
They're not going to be able to fully flesh all of them out
But i'd say you've got more than enough material to work with for essentially all of them except maybe hawkeye
I would like it if hawkeye got to tell us something about his motivation that has something to do with what we've seen of him
in the past
Um outside of the wander thing because I think that's fair
um
I just would I think i'd like a little bit more. I don't know
Story arcs over the course
They've all got a reason
Oh, uh, I was going to say we don't really need to cover iron man and cap racks. They've been glaringly obvious
Yeah
We highlight why this film revolves around them and only them these three characters
steve rogers
Bucky barns and toner. Well, it depends on what I don't even know if that's a criticism like I just be like, okay
So the plot is pushed by cap. Uh, you could argue tony's the antagonist not a villain
He's someone who's responding to all of cap's actions and winter soldier is someone that cap is looking after so
Does the plot revolve around them specifically technically? Yes, I suppose
We also got the wild card of zemo and then the fucking accords
yeah, yeah, yeah, zemo drives the plot more than anyone I think but
Yeah, it does it does revolve around them again two and a half hour film
We'll kind of have a plot revolving around everyone on an individual level to to you know
They are the main characters. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, that's just the way it is
And then there's a supporting cast of characters that the film is also about but isn't not as much
Yeah, and they and they get less screen time or less development
but they they still get well for the most part I would say enough just to
Well to flesh it out anyway, but yeah, this is okay
Let's start with steve rogers as he is the centerpiece to all of this spring boarding off of the previous captain america film
The winner soldier we find steve rogers in a state of mental instability over his long-lost friend turned foe bucky barns
When crossbones is able to shake steve with ease at just the mention of bucky's name because he was unable to keep a level head
Steve feels personally responsible for the public outcry when wanda has to prevent crossbones from blowing everyone up
Then we're introduced to the socovia accords which serves to poke steve and make him question his own beliefs
However, man, i'm glad you did that recap at the start that prevents him from having to do bits like this
Cap why the fuck was he his beliefs? He has he has beliefs
Um, if anything it it like galvanizes them
Like he was he was going with x and then this makes it x turn into like this concrete thing. It's just like yeah
For when peggy dies steve drops everything to fly out to her funeral
Now this is a crucial moment for steve as a character because peggy was the last tie steve had to his old self
With the exception of bucky if anyone's curious
There's nothing to pause here because I don't disagree with any of this. I don't think anyone would just like yeah, this is
pretty straightforward
Losing peggy not only made steve feel more distant from everyone else but also made him feel more distant with himself
It's here that peggy's niece re-establishes steve's resolve to stand his ground and fight for what he believes in
It's also around this time that the whole incident with bucky and the un meeting occurs and while this is never directly stated
This is a really tightly structured filter unapologetic
Huge fan of this film
It knows it hinted
We can safely assume that the reason steve decides to side with bucky against all logic is because bucky is now
against all logic
So bucky saved cap at the end of winter soldier and then left and so cap was like that's what he talks about here
He's like, why did you save me?
He knows that bucky's in there
I mean, I think captain america's view is of redemption. He believes in bucky. He believes that he can be redeemed
absolutely, yeah, he's still bucky, you know, like
He's with him till the end of the line. It's not you know, their best friend
Even says that in the movie. I'm just trying to hear it again in case
So around this time that the whole incident with bucky and the un meeting occurs and while this is never directly stated
Nor is it hinted?
We can safely assume that the reason steve decides to side with bucky against all logic
Is because bucky is now the last tie steve has to his old self a tie
That was and is much stronger than peggy could ever be to steve as a character because bucky was his best friend
Now let's take a look at tony stark and his role. I've had an age well when he left bucky to go spend his life with peggy
Well, yeah peggy was his best female friend his lover
He got the boobies bucky don't have the boob
In the film the first time we see tony stark in the film
Is within a simulation of the last time he saw his parents alive for obvious reasons this plays a major role into the final
Confrontation at the end of the film but going beyond that this introduction also paints a much more vulnerable tony
Than we're used to seeing in preview. It also sets up mysterious
Technically, yes
Ironman films tony has been extremely reluctant to admit any feelings beyond hostility and disbelief toward his father
Anytime we got close to seeing a more emotional side of him
He would quickly retreat behind a thick layer of armor both literally what about the scene where?
He's like 20 years later. He's still taking me to school. That was pretty open
I mean what was in front of people, but i'm willing to accept that he's reserved emotionally
I think that's all he's trying to say here. I'll let him I'll let him have that
Really and figuratively now, however
We get to see a more genuine moment with tony and a public moment at that tony is wounded and feels great remorse
Shame and regret on top of this it is revealed that tony and pepper have either split up for good
Or have gotten to a fight of concerning proportions
This too leaves tony wounded and alone and then as if it couldn't get any worse
We are then introduced to the final nail in the coffin for tony personal blame from a grieving mother over the death of her son
By the time the accords are brought up tony has already made up his mind on the subject and every action he makes throughout the film
Is in direct response to this to try and ease his internal pain by preventing another mistake
The fact that they chose to have pepper leave tony means that he's lost his only real emotional anchor
If you recall back in the first ironman film tony started off as a wildly different character than the tony
We had even back in the first avengers film a large cause of that change was his dependency on pepper
So remove her from the equation and we are left with a tony stark that is struggling to latch on to any anchor
But has nothing again. I don't disagree with any of this. Just
We get there forget that i'm just like watching this thinking about how much I need to rewatch the first iron man
I didn't rewatch anything with iron man in it even even three to make civil war even better
No
Civil war won't work without three. I just it's just three they took the good parts of three the good concepts of
Does it do you think it's possible to edit a good three?
No
You've got so many bad elements
Yeah
Decent three that is of course until he latches on to steve tony and steve never had a formal friendship
Perhaps mutual respect for one another but their relationship has always been more of a rivalry and it's this unhealthy rivalry that tony clinks to
And thrives on which only serves to bring him more pain when his resolve aims him directly in the way of steve and his resolve
Now let's take a look at bucky barnes as this is the character that largely serves as the narrative glue
But also serves as the instigator for the downfall of steve and tony's relationship
The film opens intentionally with bucky and his secret mission the film opens intentionally with bucky
Well, like it could have been an accident, but nope
Oh shit. Oh shit
Fuck it's bucky. I imagine directors take their first shots extremely seriously funny
The rusos were watching like this film with the premiere and they're like the fuck
Look at each other
His mission we later discover involved the murder of tony's mother and father this was a smart plot device
But unfortunately is also the film's greatest downfall
A bit later bucky represents the theme of betrayal and every action his character takes in the film only strengthens that theme of betrayal
Bucky represents betrayal and every action he takes strengthens the theme of betrayal. Surely he's about to justify that
But like bucky had no choice
Bucky's rule in the film is easy enough to follow along in regards to tony's arc by the end. I don't think he justified it
No, he didn't. Um, how his betrayal bucky didn't want to do those things
And every action his character takes in the film only strengthens that theme of betrayal and comes to a dramatic close every action
Do we want to run through the list of everything that bucky does in the movie every action?
It's like do do we include?
Bo bucky the one the zemo was you know, or do we only include?
But how is that a betrayal? That's kind of where I was going to go with that
It's like if we count fake bucky, then how is that bucky?
And if we don't then we have he defends himself from the police which is a betrayal I guess of something
Then he uh, the law then he gets brainwashed and breaks out of facility
Then really his fault he fights for the chance to be able to stop an army of soldiers from doing extreme amounts of damage
And then he defends himself only really does start the film is defend himself
Yeah, I don't understand how that's the theme of betrayal I really would like a qualifier for that
Close during the film's final fight bucky's role in the film is easy enough to follow along in regards to tony's arc by the end
However, it's only when you understand both steve and tony's emotional arc that you can understand how both steve and tony were betrayed
By one another tony was betrayed in two ways
The obvious betrayal came from the fact that bucky the man steve has been endlessly fighting to protect
Also happens to be the man that caused tony so much pain the second how is that a betrayal?
How is his action a betrayal? They don't know each other. You can't be betrayed by someone
Is he saying that iron man interprets it as a betrayal
How sorry he's got no relationship with him
It's not a betrayal. It's just a bad thing that he did
You interpret it as a betrayal on behalf of steve for not telling him but
Yeah, but that even then I don't know if i'd call that a betrayal more so than an
Uh failing or an omission
You know like I mean, let's what is betrayal? Let's look up the definition of betrayal. I think I could sell
a tony feeling betrayed, but
My contention is probably that um
Where else is this in the film?
Because uh, I don't think iron man interprets any actions the cap does in defense of winter soldiers betrayal
He sees it as you're following your fucking principles
But I get it I get it but uh, you know the whole I want to punch you in your perfect teeth
Because it's causing problems, but he gets why he's doing it
Like outside because he's saying the theme of betrayal and i'm just like this one instance. I will hand you but what else?
Theory betrayal came to tony in the form of his emotional anchor as I stated tony latched on to his rivalry with steve
And when steve revealed that he'd in fact known about tony's parents. Tony was once again betrayed and lost all ties
He had steve was betrayed in a much subtler way, but betrayed nonetheless
Steve's betrayal stemmed from the fact that as I mentioned bucky is steve's last remaining tie to himself
He likely knows what he's doing is wrong or at least could have been handled much better
But he could not risk losing his best feeling in the process. What part of that is betrayal? What do you?
But what did bucky do wrong he was innocent he didn't do it square holes
Square peg circle hole like he's he's like this he's describing events and then going betrayal
It's like that's not betrayal. What are you doing?
Oh, man, this is so bizarre. This is what happens when you're trying to shove a theme
like
So like the scene in which he is trying to reason with bucky that he needs to um
Come in with cap the avengers to sort all this shit out
And and winter soldier is like I don't want to be captured. Is this is this winter soldier betraying cap?
No, it's it's not betraying me should just do exactly what he says. This is what I mean. It's like you're reaching
This isn't betrayal
He's doing is wrong or at least could have been handled much better people are referencing betrayal I know betrayed me
Good shit old beef, but he could not risk losing his best friend in the process because tony is
Consistently attempting to wedge himself between this bond steve is forced against a wall and ultimately resolves to take a stand for bucky
And for himself even if that means severing his bond with tony these three threads are the core of the film
Narratively and emotionally and if the film had simply left it at that I would be praising this film to high heaven
The film is more complicated than just that i'm sorry
Yeah, like it's got a lot of things going on at once as much as
Yeah, as much as their conflict as a trio is is great. We've got a whole wider thing going on
This is why the wheel building is fucking fantastic along with the plot and the characters
He said that this is the main focus of the film and that it's great
But the film sucks and now he only has half of his video to explain why it sucks
Actually, even though the core of the film is great. Well, you can you can machine gun criticism. So let's see what he does
I'm curious now for cultivating years of character building into such a strong
Story, unfortunately
What I just outlined is pushed to the sidelines in the end for you need to dig deep to sidelines
what
Not seeing the climax
What are you talking about?
Find these story threads as they these are not things you have to fucking like dig deep to find
This is the blatant dialogue that reference all of this. What the film is about
It's the finale. It's the plot. Yeah
Hell
Okay, let's see what betrayed me
They are hidden well underneath a false story and they're hidden well underneath a false story. What the fuck is a false story
Fiction
You know what this is fiction you're right
Intertwining character arcs. So now let's rewind and take a look at this film once more
But it as it is actually presented to us. What?
Stop saying actually. Whoa
He's just proven like the narrative or the the propaganda that we
We believe the fake lies as did the film now
Let's hear the real truth the actual real truth the legitimate actual real truth now i'm gonna break it down to the real truth
The opening sequence sets up what we think will ultimately serve as the plot of the film with the winter soldier being sent out to obtain
Some type of super soldier formula, but by the end of this plot, it's not like it's not a part of the film though
The supervision as they talk about in the commentary track. Uh, that's really awesome
Is the uh, they show you
Parts of the winter there's a winter soldier plot line going we find out more about the serum who stole it
And then what it led to and how that's going to be a problem
Which is that there's a bunch of winter soldiers on ice and you see that scene where they're extremely threatening to the point where they
Defeat winter soldier. So we're like, oh
Like these these people are and then and then bucky says like they can topple governments overnight or whatever like that
They are so extremely talented and uh able to slip in any way or whatever they want
And so if anyone was to control them
It would be a nightmare for the world if they wanted to deal some real damage. So we think we're gonna be getting
Uh bucky and ironman and cap versus the winter soldiers. That's the climax. We're led to believe we're gonna get but they're all dead
It's like whoa how like yeah because zemo zemo's motivation does not involve
Having an army of winter soldiers take over the earth. That's the last thing he fucking wants. I hate these guys. Yeah
So that it it's a it's actually i've never I don't think i've ever referenced it as a great subversion
But it totally is because you're like, wait, what? Oh
Okay
That line it's rendered pointless. It's not rendered pointless rendered pointless
It brought them there. It brought them right to him. It progresses for onwards
Like how pointless it literally brought them where he wanted them to get them to kill each other
Yeah, like like this didn't lead nowhere for clarification. It led to the fucking finale of the film
Which which led to the breakup of the avengers?
I swear to fucking god if he says led to the ending event infinity war if he's one of the people who says
That the avengers just got back together anyway
Oh
Whoa, when did this video come out though? Probably before infinity war
Um, yeah, dude
Well, at least it'll be interesting to see how it ages then what he says
This plot line it's rendered pointless when zemo ends up killing the soldiers in their sleep
Now the immediate next sequence is that of captain america dealing with crossbones, which as I mentioned, it's also the catalyst for the
Like the plot. I love this movie so much
It's so good for curves to shake steve at the mention of bucky
however in regards to the plot this only serves as confirmation that the opening sequence is indeed where the film intends to take us with
Some type of confrontation between steve and bucky down the line. I'm sorry. Can we untangle that? What is his criticism there?
We need to go back. I want to we need to go back
Wait, let's go back even further
It's rendered pointless when zemo ends up killing the soldiers in their sleep
Now the immediate next sequence is that of captain america dealing with crossbones which as I mentioned serves to shake steve at the mention of bucky
However, in regards to the plot this only serves as confirmation that the opening okay
So we might listen to him again
But I just want to go over this ourselves because I really get confused the way he structured the statement and the criticism
So what is the purpose of the crossbone scenes as a whole?
It's like well for one on your your producer perspective
It gives you an action scene in the opening which is really important for movies that are superhero movies
So get that one out of the way. It's not really important superficial
Secondly, we've got what happened to crossbones at the end of winter soldier because he was clearly rescues
Like here he is and um, this this is also the avengers getting along with their dailies
This is like showing us that there's a lot of things that happen between movies. They're just getting on with how they do everything
um
The result of this scene being that a whole bunch of innocent people are killed is extremely important to the whole point of this movie
as well as setting uh
Pushing a lot of people say that it's this
That makes the accords happen. It looks to be that the accords are happening regardless and the uh,
Lagos was the was it laga sakovia was the main reason they called the sakovia records. Yeah. Yeah. So lagos is just another
Hugely horrible incident. This one's much more cut and dry
The other ones need to be explained to people for them to understand like no offense to yms
But he's one of the people who said like you've got images of them saving the world
Like why why is that bad?
Like all right
And then of course
It's like the footage of hulk
Jumping onto that building and all the debris falls on those people it's like yeah
That wasn't necessary cap choosing to down the hella carriers when they had control over them and it
Build a whole bunch of people with rubble and destroyed buildings
Yeah, just the whole just the whole act of dropping the island or whatever that too
Yeah, and ultram was obviously the avengers fault or ims fault
Yeah, well, yeah, I meant and and cruises
Yeah, well im and bruce put together technically so yeah
And then even ross makes the point of like do you know where like thorin banner are?
Because you know if I lost a nuke like i'm getting shit for that
Yeah, and and ross make sure to say we owe you a debt you've saved the world countless times
But I mean could you maybe do it in a way that doesn't kill it as some people regularly?
Well, that's the idea, right?
You can't just go like like it would be like saying
I killed I killed that bad guy and saved a whole bunch of people
It's like did you have to shoot through the old lady's face to get him like, you know, did you have to do that?
Yeah, these these easy analogies to make and once you explore this there's loads of real world precedent for how police officers operate
Police can't do whatever they want and just say well, I got the bad guy. So collateral damage is okay
The avengers, you know, they don't have oversight
Even sam jacks or fury is against cap's decision. He's like, he's like, whoa destroy like all of it
The fun he's like, uh, we're doing that. We're doing it. You you got corrupted from the inside out without even realizing it
And then he's just like jesus like okay, and they don't seem happy about it at all. And then the repercussions come and um
It's not even including everything. There's a couple of other instances that don't even get mentioned
Uh, like the fucking hulk versus ironman fight and you might be like, well that was wanders faults like wanders an avenger
Well, that's I mean like there's a logic to the
it was an it like the reason why the the the thesis I guess works so well is because
If superheroes existed in the real world, it would only be a matter of time
Until something like this happened
Yeah, you know like people would just settle for it
I felt they were late with the mcu, but I was so glad they did it in general. I was like, thank christ. They still done it
Well, yeah, I mean it probably should have happened like right after new york
Like it probably should have happened right then and there
So yeah point being this set up a lot
There's the bucky stuff as well reminding us bucky exists cap still really cares about him and that he's alive
He's well and the crossbones apparently crossed paths with him or at least he's faking that
um
So what i'm trying to say is this scene achieves a lot
And it's part of why that's why I said, I love it when it showed up
It's just like oh such a good way to start this film considering what it's about
I don't think that's a single unnecessary scene in this movie. I think every single scene has something that it does
Yeah, I think every single scene. I can't think of one where i'm like, yeah, you could have cut that
When zemo ends up killing the soldiers in their sleep
Now the immediate next sequence is that of captain america dealing with crossbones?
Which as I mentioned serves to shake steve at the mention of bucky
however
In regards to the plot this only serves as confirmation that the opening sequence is indeed where the film intends to take us
With some type of confrontation between steve and bucky down the line
Then we get tony scene which serves to build up the socovia accords
And it is as early as this point that the film attempts to distract you from the core story as this setup
Film tries to distract you from the film. It's like what are you talking about?
It's such a weird language
Like it I don't I don't understand why he thinks it's a distraction. It's all moving towards the end
Yeah, it's all setting things up
It's laying down
Like the reason why the confrontation works so well at the end is because they had a lot of things that made them against each other
Up until that point and it was like the tipping point. It's just like that's one thing too far
because
Maybe tony wouldn't have like immediately lashed out if things had been better over the proof
Like he he had a several bad days. Yeah, tony had several bad days
He had this he had pepper he had the falling out with um with cap and then he had issues with the government the screw up in uh
The screw up at the airport
There was a lot of stuff working against him and then when that comes out it's like yeah
He's whittled down throughout this film and he's already whittled down in general because of ultron and ironman 3's ptsd stuff
like there's tony's
Going through a rough rough time
He's
Is presented in a manner that attempts to justify tony's decision on the accords as well as said attempts to justify
Yeah, what no his position is 110 justified so is caps
I hate that the people automatically assume one of them is absolutely wrong. It's like
or
you can have
Two people who are right at least within their framing that conflict
Pragmatism versus altruism always conflict
My favorite thing about when people try to criticize this film by saying oh, it's obvious that x person was right
Is that they can never agree on which one?
Yeah, you have so many content creators that have decided that one of them is definitively stupid
I mean if anything it's fun to watch from a wider view
All right
The film attempts to distract you from the core story as this setup is presented in a manner that attempts to justify
Tony's decision on the accords as well as set him up to be one of the opposing force to steve later on one of the opposing
force
Yeah, that's a weird sentence there
I think it sounds like he was gonna say forces and he stopped himself and then just didn't rerecord
one member of the opposing force
ah
Figured it out
The puzzle that attempts to justify
Tony's decision on the accords as well as set him up to be one of the opposing force to steve later on
One of the opposing force
So like he is one like so that you've got the opposing force and he is one of them
Yeah, I think it's unconventional but I actually think it I think that makes sense
Uh, yeah that can work I think
The accords as well as set him up to be one of the opposing force to steve later on at the airport
Yeah, then we get wanda's little arc zemo's retarded plan the u and me
It'd be really great if you could explain why it's retarded instead of being the fifth time you've said it's retarded
Leading etc leading up to the airport fight and it's all filler it's soulless
It's like I have literally the opposite take it's
It's all worthless completely pointless
I mean, this is all really important for like the future of the mcu because half of the heroes are locked up
And like on the run and that's the reason why the avengers lost
In an end game. Uh, not an end game in infinity war
like
Cause effect cause effects that's what this whole movie is
And his little arc zemo's retarded plan the u.n meeting etc leading up to the airport fight and it's all
Filler it's soulless action driven filler that is used to advertise the civil war storyline to the you
Okay, so let's just do it his way. Uh, the dark knight is fucking all only about gordon's family and
Two-face that's all it's about the stuff with the joker is just filler. It's soulless filler
It's got nothing to do with the film itself
I don't have to qualify it. That's just true
Oh, this is boring
Make a point
Public look i'm not going to sit here and argue that the airport fight wasn't fun because it was
It was a great fight sequence, but I fucked you argue something isn't fun
Imagine imagine thinking imagine like thinking right? Oh the film has got a the core of it is great
Uh, there's some filler there which is kind of a distraction from what it's all about, but that's all fun and fine
The film sucks
Don't forget every other aspect is apparently through the roof good
Of the story which is good but distracts you from it's good with its bad
The the film misunderstands its own like it's tricks itself into believing that it's non-story is its story it's fake story
His biggest criticism
His biggest criticism of it so far is there's a b story that doesn't really need to be it's fun
It's fun, but it doesn't really need to be there sucks. It's awful
The dark knight was about joker versus batman all the stuff with two-face and harvey time was filler
You just swap it around fuck it
That had absolutely no point at all really think about it now. There were no stakes. There was no
Already was paralyzed
Look
Okay, so I guess we have to have like a whole fucking conversation what stakes are what is at stake?
Uh and how important these things are so let's go all the way to the lowest if I go to reach for a drink
I'm putting my balance at stake
I
Don't know that's probably the lowest possible stakes you could ever have
And then highest possible stakes is like the whole universe is going to get burned to a cinder. I think that's the stakes in endgame
Is what thanos wants to do with flicking his thing right? He says he wants to reduce everything to atoms and restart
But that's I don't know that there's any other higher stakes than that. That's pretty much at the highest
how you define stakes like stakes of
Of things that you've actually built up the audience to be invested in because if there's nothing in that universe
Cares about beyond all look hearing about these things is another thing, right?
So you could just have a terrible film with some guy goes. I will destroy the world and we're like, okay
A few minutes, but could you argue that there's the stakes are higher in something where it's actually built up?
It's a film has put the work to build up depends what higher means like a matter of investment or actual like
uh logistical amounts of things investment you can qualify that like objectively with
Um, you know what the film has actually built up to be at stake rather than just saying oh this thing is at stake
There's a lot of stuff at stake. Well, it's essentially the the different way
The stuff that's at stake and going oh, there's a lot of stuff at stake by the way
I'm trying to preemptively counter the idea that the stakes if the stakes are uh,
Spider-man might lose his girlfriend being able to go out with it. For example, it's like
Who cares about that? I'm like, oh, well if the stakes are low enough
That everything is relative to that
Then yeah, if you're invested in the character, you might care about the fact that you won't be able to I like that
Who cares? Well peter would yeah, that's kind of my point and then it's like, uh, you're fighting thanos
And then peter's on the phone and he's like wait, I want to go on a date with you
Please don't let me like who the fuck cares about the girlfriend thanos is right there. You know, I mean like it's all relative
So what are the stakes of civil war?
Well, what's at stake is not only the the freedom of the avengers and how they're going to operate going forward
But all of the friendships between the two sides as well as um this potential for death
We don't know how it's going to play out. A lot of the post-hoc arguments for for civil war are nobody died
Therefore there were no stakes
Yeah, skippable
You can't argue that because you didn't know that at the time and if someone says we did know that at the time
I'd be like, what is your evidence? Oh contracts
Like oh well, uh, that's fair
Like we can basically make that assumption about every movie ever for example
Fucking oh endgame had no stakes because I knew that iron man and cap were leaving
Like well, that's not fair. How do you know that it's like this is the contracts it's like you can't do it that way
That's not fair
Um
So was there anybody in the theater who thought oh my god, there's no way they'll kill roadie roadie's way too important to the story
I mean at that point like that you're talking about contracts
So you may as well go there were no stakes. I read script links and I knew what happened
Well, nobody died in avengers
Right, except because it's like
You know people know that roadie didn't die because it's like why are they showing in the trailer?
But if you hadn't seen the trailer you'd be like, oh, oh
You know, that's another argument. That's flimsy because there's different companies that make different trailers that spoil different things
So how are we supposed to judge from knowing what's in a trailer like objectively exactly?
Um, everyone keeps spelling stakes the food way i'm offended
I did that up until very recently
so, um, I was
heavily invested
In the stakes of civil war because I understood what was at stake very clearly and how much this will have a ripple effect
You deceived
Yes, I want this is the thing though
It's like we're almost getting into the territory of immersion
And so that's why i'm like, I guess it's different for everyone but to say definitively there are no stakes
I just I don't know what your take on what stakes are is
And
How they work, uh, like I said if you're gonna tell me oh, no the avengers might break up nobody's dying i'd be like, um
Okay
So the avengers breaking up is still a big deal
um
Someone going to jail is a big deal
The fact that they're fighting each other alone has major implications going forward but okay
All
But he said there's no stakes so we're done
This is by the way
I spent like fucking five or ten minutes talking about my ideas about stakes
I'm not even through it yet entirely and i'm not supported enough entirely
He said there are no stakes just like that
And so someone out there is going to be like see how much more concise that guy is more just rambles
I hate that
That's not how it should work guys
Great flight sequence, but it had
I hope they do. Yeah, I hope they do
Really think about it. There were no stakes. There was no depth to the fight. What was the purpose of it?
Tony there's no depth to the fight. What does it mean to have depth to a fight?
It's how deep you your punches penetrate your opponent how much each slap means? Yeah, I know right
It's
Is he talking about the the sort of the action because i'd say there's a lot of
Use of abilities and stuff if that's complexity
It like I don't I don't understand what that means
We can't even work with it because there's so many things it could mean
like
If we go with every interpretation we'll be here for 10 years. So
No, I reject your hypothesis
Oh great fight sequence, but it had absolutely no point at all
There were no stakes there was no no point no point
There were stakes because
They got given an opportunity to win and they they didn't really win and then it means that ross isn't going to help him later on
Which means that then when he has to go on his own, which means that the fight happens in the finale
No
No point i'm outraged
I love that like no point and no consequences. I'm guessing it's fucking half the heroes get put in jail. Yeah
No point it's iron man trying to save face for the avengers with the government while
Uh cap and buck you're trying to save the world
No point fuck off
At absolutely no point at all really think about it now there were no stakes there was no
Yeah, I would challenge him to do the same thing in reverse
This is the thing about like trying to be objective about a piece of content
It always comes down to someone's side has a lack of information every time and it could be us
But when it comes to a movie like civil war where how many times have you seen it for me?
Um, probably like five or six times i'd say collectively here is a good chance. It's been seen 20 times
so yeah about four
Depth to the fight. What was the purpose of it?
Tony was given a short amount of time to bring in steve sam and bucky right answer for their actions
Meanwhile steve sam and bucky needed to stop zemo
But why didn't steve just go to tony in the first place when he found out about zemo?
They try and how the fuck could he why the so tony is literally trying to capture them?
They even they have a line for this
Because he even says like the the doctor the psychiatrist he's behind all of this and then bucky and then you know
Black panther jumps out and then get the script up like
Well, it's because then tony's like anyway, you know, um ross gave me like 48 hours to bring in
It was 24 hours ago. Can you help your brother out?
And then he says you're after the wrong guy and then tony says your judgment is this
Yeah, your judgment is just you your old war bunny gilders and people yeah, and uh, so this is this happens in the film
With these guys, he could do it. They speak 30 languages. They can hide in plain sight infiltrate assassinate destabilize
They can take a whole country down in one night. You'd never see them coming
Then uh sam says man, this would have been a lot easier one week ago
And then steve says if we called tony now goes no, he won't believe us
Steve said even if he did who knows if the accords would let him help us
I I love how like if you actually pay attention to the film and you can like listen to what characters say
I was gonna say
so we spend a lot of our time ripping into films that don't explain things that have contradictions and so when films do
Do it we're like, hey
Hey
They did it. Okay, give them a trophy or something. But a lot of people just just fucking just know
Well, it's like um, what was it in the homecoming um where people said like
Oh, why didn't what was it? Why didn't he call the cops or something or what was it to do with the ferry?
Like I can't remember but there's some words like in the film. They literally say
Oh, what's this?
Our movie circlejerk a 24-hour e-fab
Yes, really
I hope they enjoy the show
Everybody knows the longer you talk about something the more valid the take
More uh more like those kids
More like those kids in high school slash colors that wrote 10 pages for five page limit assignments and thought they were
Thought themselves superior because of it
That's what you do, right? Yes what I do. I mean we've only really covered one topic so far
so
you know, we we need to be more concise and better equipped to deal with things because
It's not like you can talk about a whole huge amount of things even just with like one line of dialogue from one character
even though we've covered
So a second video that covers a shit ton of topics at once, but you know
What what to mauler and his co-host stiefer work i'm morbidly curious since they make such long podcasts
But it makes me think they either use up all their downtime on them
Or don't have that sort of obligation in the first place. So this is my job for one
I find it fascinating when people say like oh, how do you have time for that?
It's like dude the day is like pretty long. You were right for 16 hours
Well, if you spend eight hours working then that's like eight hours each day that you have free
I was going to say
So free you and alex have uh jobs irl jobs
Correct or you're in university, right?
So that went to uni. Yeah, so
um
I I run the podcast weekly at most
um
And i'm a youtuber
So my the rest of my time is spent either editing or just living a life where you can you know
Do things like eat and poop and sleep and hang out with people, you know
And you know life that thing and then j you're uh, you're full-time now. Are you are you? I am. Yeah, so, um
There we go
Hopefully that answered the question
I like uh, what was it?
I I think there are so many funny comments here
Like this is this is funny
Not surprising not only are they a bunch of narcissists but their fan base is downright cultish
Seriously that you'd have every meme or joke those guys make as if it's a work of genius
Um, how can you unironically say that?
We just we fuck around with memes. They're like look they take themselves so seriously look they like the memes
In all seriousness the aids boss is a work of genius. So is the cosmic chicken
Like I I do like how they can look at you know
Full-fledged animations and stuff and be like, oh man. This is just shit. It's like I don't think they see those
I think they'd probably just see people going like, uh
milk
Why is that a problem?
It's narcissistic and cultish
When you criticize her shitty takes his fans morph into jordan peterson fans and hit you with this
Did you watch the entire five parts?
The entire five parts
It says i'm like jordan peterson fans
When you criticize her shitty takes his fans morph into jordan peterson fans and hit you with it
Did you watch the entire five part series of throughout videos where it goes into more detail explaining his opinion?
I if not, then you're taking it out of context. Well, the thing is like they don't watch any of it
Yeah, yeah, easily. I was responding to this take it's fucking infuriating to see
Oh, so what a great response you didn't watch the full four hours
Clearly nothing you say has value when the thing i'm responding to them is to is them saying oh, how can you get angry about this?
And we go we didn't get angry
Did you watch the stream and they're going wow you're saying I should watch the full four hours to criticize it?
You should get it right and if you don't get what's in the stream, right?
I'm going to ask you if you watched it. Well, yeah, it's just being like, you know, lord of the rings sucked
It was I hated all of it was set in space. You'd be like
Did you watch lord of the rings like oh I have to watch the whole thing to criticize it
If all of their criticisms were accurate, it wouldn't matter if they really watched three minutes of it
I I do love how it's like
When you criticize this shitty takes it's like that sounds like objective or is that just your opinion that they're shit
Uh-oh
No, they think they think it's objective that you can't be objective. Yeah, so they probably like yeah, it's just my opinion that you're shit
The thing is I don't like I said all the time
I don't think anybody deep down believes that a hundred percent of things are subjective
I think even people who say will agree that there are some things that are obviously better than other things
Like like for real. Well, the thing is forgive. They don't they'll end up saying things that even the audience will be like
They're like, you know, the dark night is no better than the room like okay
It's like surely we could agree that that's stupid. I think they believe that there are degrees
They believe there are degrees of subjectivity between, you know
Hard provable facts and like by any measure that you don't have to like even define for it to be a fact
Yeah, but but the thing is like the one that gets me is artist objective. It's like that sounds objective to me
But
Yeah, as theo said you can get most people to agree that facts exist
Yeah, most people will go that far beauty is objective
But if you put a standard on beauty that can be measured then that is objective. How dare you fray?
Fray i've combined j and fring
You're both wrong. Maybe fray
Someone's probably gonna make a meme of that now. I feel like some hideous homonculus robot thing
Can play it off like they won't believe why we combine why do we combine into a homonculus?
Well, I don't know because everyone knows the beneath the mask and the and the whole the outfit
It's a robot under there with fringy
No one cared who I was
I'm just gonna i'm a homonculus man. Yes
Okay, I may I mean that complimentor
Meanwhile steve sam and bucky needed to stop zemo
But why didn't steve just go to tony in the first place when he found out about zemo?
They try and play it off like they won't believe them. But come on
They try and play it off like you won't believe them but come on what
You can't just
He literally tells him and he doesn't believe him
What the fuck yeah, that's that's that's why i'm in disbelief. It's like it happens
What the fuck dude, yeah, he tried to spit it out during the fight, but by then it was too late, but what?
Wasn't by then it was too late
I'm blown away by this. So ima wants them to be taken in and then they'll sort out winter soldier
It did not matter when they told him
But even then there was no reason at all for steve to recruit the people he did considering his objective was
Extremely time sensitive. He could have easily used the time that he spent recruiting people to just fly to moscow
Yeah, when you've got iron man vision and war machine trying to stop you you might need firepower beyond a shield
So the idea that he should have just gone to moscow or instead of trying to get people that can help him
I disagree. I think that he made a pretty rational decision
Well before tony and the others arrived at the airport to block their path
As for tony, there was no need at all to recruit people
How do you know that tony hadn't already had that place under surveillance and he was waiting for them to get there?
For the whole point with peter was the whole take that take it down under like about to balance the teams
Well, uh
We haven't I don't know if that's what he was criticizing the the fact that tony
Only just arrived there and he's saying if cap had done everything faster
He would have gotten away with it while I would counter i'm pretty sure the reason tony showed up is because they did
Like he was waiting for them
Yeah, we don't know that tony had literally just arrived like is this is where was that a thing?
The fact that they're all there doesn't make me think that they just arrived
Yeah, they anticipated it
Who knew peter parker? Yeah, it was an abundantly fun intro to our new spider-man, but vision alone could have gone
Oh wait, sorry, so he says it was dumb for spider-man because we can go over that
For spider-man to be there. Let me just check that again
The time that he spent recruiting people to just fly to moscow well before tony and the others arrived at the airport to block their path
Why would he go to moscow? There was no need at all to recruit peter parker. Yeah, right
They can't get to moscow. They don't have any means of getting there. That's why they go. I guess he's saying the
They could have well, this that's what I counted
He was implying that they could have gotten to this area faster, but it implies that tony wasn't already there
Or had sensors to imply that there's what I mean. The whole place was evacuated tony did that it was tony's team that did that
They knew they were coming there. Um
And that's explained by black widows saying that she had a tail on the girl who was interested in
App because this film is well written. Um
We we also got he he said like there's no reason for for peter to be there
Um, do I need to cite the dialogue that says string them up?
Oh
That would be the
He's the whole reason he wants peter is because which of the selection of heroes
Can disarm and control heroes in a non-violent way?
Well, I mean I guess you could define it as violence, but you know what I mean
well, I
I mean because the thing is because he brings up like oh well vision can end the fight
It's like not without potentially killing someone. He's too strong visions a fucking cannon like this is why spider-man was perfect for this scenario
The idea that he's like arbitrarily brought in uh, no if if if you've got a spider-man that's being washed by ironman
This would be the time that you would need him. That's why he's brought in
I'm sure I have to send this into the chat into the into the discord chat
It's a meme, but it's about what happened since we started. So
I think you can show it. Oh, well i've got a couple saved up already
Yeah, yeah i've got that one ready
um
I'm gonna say i've got a bounce for now guys. I'm gonna go
Carry on with irol things. I know. Um, this will be going for some time
You are welcome to jump back in at at certain intervals as days
Yeah, well that's that's actually fine man
Um, but yeah, it's been fun. Uh, you you it's funny how like it people would treat it as uh
You have been your very logs like three and a half hours. We are
I don't
No, I don't I don't but yeah. Um
Well, I will message you when I can and count and shit and uh
Yeah, I will it's been fun. Yeah
See you guys soon here around
Yeah
toodles
Um, awesome
But yeah, by the way, uh, if you watch them clash in civil war the first time the heroes clash in that like cinematic view
Uh vision immediately gets covered in the in the red shit from wanda
um, no, sorry, he gets electrocuted by um
Hawkeye
And then we already know that wanda can literally fucking like delete him from the fight
So the idea that oh, it's over when vision's there. It's like not necessarily at all
No, um, I mean
they had to try and balance the teams you remember the scene where like
tony says
She says like we're short staffed and then tony's like, oh, you know, can you find like hulk?
He's like, well, he wouldn't be on our side
Yeah, and they're like, oh I got an idea. Where's yours downstairs? Where's yours? And then they cut to queens
It's like they need people
They're they are the smaller team
Um
Yeah, we we could we we've got theo restocking on behalf of
It's jumping out
Luckily right now we haven't had this is the thing I was worried about is that everyone's going to turn up around american night time
You know what I mean?
Like probably going to happen and i'll get a clash like a bazillion people
Uh bazillion people good evening tisms
Is 5 35 the evening? I don't know
What time is your time?
The same as your time. Wait, you're from you're from america
Yes
Can't you tell from my accent? Mm-hmm
So do you hate civil war?
Yeah, it's a terrible film because it's not real to itself and it's stuff, you know
Well, i'm glad that we can start that movie Superman is better
Hmm. Oh wait. Yeah, you got the link right here
Uh, let me check
That's about yeah, there we go excellent
Abundantly fun intro to our new
Moscow well before tony and the others arrived at the airport to block their path as for tony
There was no need at all to recruit peter parker
Yeah, it was an abundantly fun intro to our new spider-man, but literally the most valuable one on their team for the fight
Yeah, like there's no reason to
Okay, he took down atman
If he wasn't there they wouldn't have taken atman down
He also didn't perform as well as he like him at peak
He literally could have ended the fight within about five minutes if he had just been able to web the shit out of everyone there
That was the goal
Wasn't able to pull it off because he gets outsmarted by both cap and falcon
It's the more experienced. Yeah, it turns out
That when you're like a fucking 15 year olds, you're not that great at strategy or you're not as good as you may end up being
The right really
That's why I really liked fact's portrayal in civil wars. He's kind of just this
He's just a big bundle of strength and powers and he's not particularly like great at it at that point
There's a lot of impressive shit. It's just the
Doesn't doesn't doesn't peek out like a certain captain
Vision alone got tomorrow could have gotten the job done, but this film
I like how he says vision alone could go the job done. We play that scene out
Just vision is the wonder fucking shoves him into the core of the earth. They escape
Well, that was good. We did it
Lee nerfs vision in terms of power for the sake of balance because let's be real here
Compare vision in civil war to the vision we got in avengers age of ultron and he's a completely different character
You could pick just about every character different character
I think it just means that he's different
We never saw what wonder could do to him in age of old age of ultron
No, we didn't and if you remember he got knocked out in age of ultron at one point, so he's not all powerful
Yeah, that's right
Character in this film against the vision we got in age of ultron and I would put my money on vision still coming out
Yeah, okay, that's fine that you think that but we didn't know about vision's weakness to the stone
Being that you've got a girl who's powered entirely by the reality stone. I think it was right
Was it no which which stone is she powered by mindstone? Uh, it was the mind which is what he's made of
Essentially, so it makes sense that she would be able to access him and fuck with him
that's like the biggest uh
Flip of the of the understanding of how these heroes work in in conjunction with each other as a writer
You could absolutely make it so that she can't do anything to him
He's immune because he has the mind stone, but that's not what they went with
From a video making perspective. Can I have a few references?
like please
as to why visions
You know unbeatable
What did we see an ultron that makes it such that he can't be beaten in this film his laser's pretty opie
fact that he can make himself like
Dancer than titanium sort of thing
Well, he's made out of um, he's made out of um,
Vibranium, isn't he you can like walk through face through walls and stuff. It's like yeah, he's good
Good, he's super strong. Yeah
Super strong he can fly
like super
Oh, i'm sure he doesn't invite that comparison
As the victor the guy is a walking talking infinity stone and is way too yeah turns out he's
At risk to someone else who is also a walking talking infinity stone
Just not in the same way. I don't know. Look, why is he ignoring this?
There's a whole scene where she does this in the film. She fucking shoves him through the earth. I don't know my money on
He's ignoring. Yeah coming out as the victor
The guy is a walking talking infinity stone and is way too broken power wise and to help illustrate that fact
I simply asked the question where was vision during the crossbones scuffle now wanders
Where was where was only yeah, where are all the people who weren't there? Where was iron man?
You know
to account for everybody's
Like this is cap leading his avengers team
Not even it wasn't even a confirmed threat. They didn't even know it was just wasn't it like a lead?
uh, I can't remember but
The thing is like what it's he's not all purpose
You know what I mean? It's like saying well, why don't you just bring an m1 abrams into every fight?
It's like well, sometimes it's not going to help you that much
sometimes like causing more trouble and spider-man's stopping a mugging and visions like
Stop stop stop stop
Is it wrong to assume the avengers can delegate too?
Yeah, I think that was that's the point
That's exactly what was going on there. And how do we know?
The vision being there would prevent the bad tisms from happening
Well, what could he have done differently? Imagine he like literally one of the biggest repercussions for the team in this film was caused by vision
Fucking nearly killed roadie. Like you're advocating that. Oh, well if vision was there no one would be hurt. It's like, uh
I'm sure vision showed up and ripped a building in half. Everything would be fine
Yeah, just now just thinking of the boys
It'd be like, you know homelander got brought for everything then he just like destroys everything
Match for him, but even in the scene that she overpowers him. I feel that was written a little unfairly
Anyway, you feel it was written unfairly. That's a great argument
Don't hit anyway right there. God damn it
I feel it was unfair moving on you're like, whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. That's like your whole argument. This is really important
Moving on beyond the plot itself another distraction
Are the various little character arcs that ultimately serve no purpose the various character arcs that serve no purpose
All right, you guys ready for this?
Entire plot. Okay. Surely a character act has a purpose on its own. Nope
Nowhere at all because again the film is about tony and steve and bucky character arcs that i'm referring to are
Wanda's where let's take this one at a time. So
Wanda
deciding to take responsibility for her own actions
And choosing that she's in charge of herself versus allowing the accords to decide
Where and when she will go and if she kills somebody that she's not responsible for it the accords
You know specifications would be how is that not relevant to the overall point of the story the overall theming?
Standing ground shut up because to the overall point of the film to this guy is just
Cap versus uh bonds and betrayal iron man
It's just cap versus iron man to him, isn't it? Pretty much. Yeah, so he thinks that anything that's not in favor of that is a trick
It's a trick. You know, he fucking advocates that they tricked themselves. He thinks that the rusos like believe their own lives
What are the fucking talking about?
The thing is like does character development have to be in service of the main characters or can it be for its own sake?
Like why why does anything can be anything as jade just highlighted earlier?
If a character goes on an arc that doesn't actually follow the theme or the overall point of the film
Does that make it worthless or anything? It's like no because they've changed and it's going to carry over into the next movie
subplot within a pop
Especially in a universe like the mcu
You could literally have just like a completely unrelated story just interlaced and like as a beast story
just cut uh
Just cut into this movie and it wouldn't be it wouldn't be bad. I don't think for any object on any objective scale
No, I don't think so either
Due to wanda's arc through her remorse. Oh wait, let's throw him back a bit
Nowhere at all because again the film is about tony and steve and bucky character arcs that i'm referring to are
Wanda's we're introduced to wanda's arc through her remorse over her actions during the beginning action sequence and the consequent public outcry
This arc however is almost immediately discredited by the simple fact that what she did was the best possible solution
And not a single person admits that
No, no, no, no, no, no
What if she moved the explosion somewhere else what she had what she should have done and this again
I say this knowing full well that this is very difficult
Is throw them directly up and behind her if she'd thrown crossbones up and behind her still would have caused problems like, you know debris
That would have had the least amount of deaths. That's what she could have done
Do I think that it's bad? She didn't do that. No, she was rushing to make a decision
This is what happens. This is how people are punished in real life. They're judged on their decisions in the moment
And what if there was people with better suited power sets there, for example in the hypothetical
Absolutely could have done something better. Why she feels so guilty
Any hero would the fact that you can't save it. That's the spider verse
Isn't isn't the thing spider verse they tell miles the the hardest thing about it. You can't save everybody
I remember that
wrong
Simple fact that what she did was the best possible solution and not a single person admits that
Anyway, this arc eventually leads her to be submissive to tony's will and stace put it avenger's hq. However
Yeah, she didn't know she was until she was told that she only stays for like the night
Vision says, you know, I don't want people to like you. Basically. She's not staying for tony
Yeah, she stays because she likes vision. That's like the beginning of their
relationship sort of thing
Mm-hmm preparation for the airport sequence rolls around
She immediately abandons her own character arc. No
No, this is her character. God damn it
The scene in the kitchen is here already being against tony's ideas
And this is this is her being forced to choose. It's like make your decision and this is this is what cap told her in
the beginning
So be responsible for your own actions. That's what cap wants the avengers to do
He doesn't want a conglomerate connection of people thing
Be like avengers go here. If you kill a whole bunch of people is fine. We'll take care of it. It's like no
No, we'll go where we think we should go and we'll take responsibility for those that we hurt in the interim
Which is not something they've been great at up to this point
Wrong wrong wrong wrong
And scrolls around
She immediately abandons her own character arc because the plot needed her to because as I mentioned vision is just too damn
Overpowered and the airport sequence needed a balance to be already had hawkeye was a counter to him
So wrong still even without wander we could counter vision and as for the first thing fring he said
Was that he's so fucking powerful. It's like, okay, let's start the fight visions like, um
I'll just grab um
App
It's just like imagine you you're a cop and you get called to I don't know a domestic disturbance
And then you pull your rpg 7 out of the trunk
You shoot the house like well the guy was in the house he's not
I got him
He's not he's not hurting her anymore today when doing my surgery instead of using my scalpel. I think i'll use the hammer
I will use my chainsaw
I'll use my nukes
Again, i'm picturing like a dead a dentist fucking surgeon with a chainsaw
But doing it really carefully to make the perfect cuts where he needs to like dude, there are better acting
There are better things for this. He's like no
How I do it
The chainsaw's better though another character arc that arose simply because it had to was clint's sudden change of heart to come out of retirement
Only as opposed to wanda's care. Uh him coming out of retirement makes sense if he wants to help wander
Yeah
Your brother died for him. I don't know if you're aware of this
He even says this point blank
Him falling on one of the other sides
I feel like that is something that needs a little bit of work for the film
But him coming out of retirement is totally justified
I keep seeing people say things like uh x character does y thing because they had to
There's little to no regard for whether or not what they did actually makes sense
Like the idea that it's in service of the plot. It makes it instantly a bad thing. It's really weird
It's odd given no explanation at all for clint suddenly joining in on the action
He just arrives because we needed a fight sequence and needed another character
Also, he manages to briefly overpower vision again. No similar
Um, but what?
What do you mean? No, what do you mean?
Never be touched by anything except what he is which is stupid
This is terrible. Is this guy right vision fan fiction?
I think I think it's a good scene because it shows like when he gets the jump on him
He's fine, but once that ends there's no contest. He can't be yeah
Clint I love the bit where he beats him with the baton until it breaks because he's hardening so cool
Joining in on the action. He just arrives because we needed a fight sequence and needed another character
Also, he manages to briefly overpower vision again. No similar. He just says no
No
Like when the film says yes
And this guy is this is the same guy who opens would say like oh they disagree with me
They're marble fanboys. I have to take the slings and arrows to be right. It's like you literally just say no
Such incredible analysis. Just no remember at the beginning of the video when he described this as an in-depth
Remember how you plot recapped for no fucking reason at all
I too turn on my mic for 20 minutes and just say things and then it's true
Because we needed a fight sequence and needed another character. Also. He manages to briefly overpower vision again
No similar pointless character threads can be found all over the film with characters
Just thrown in because we needed that airport fight. He's showing spider-man when saying pointless. Um
We get to establish spider-man's motivation
And only trying to prevent the cataclysm. That is the avengers splitting apart or being forced into
Jail which prevents them from helping the little guy saving the earth in general
Uh, scott, you know like scott only wanted to get rid of me faster because the film needed there to be
The joker really only existed so that we could have a movie about the joker
Think about it. It wasn't really about him
He was just a description from what movie was about. Yeah, but the the movie itself tricked itself into believing itself
He didn't realize what it's actually about
the only reason why andy defray wanted to get out of prison was because
The plot wanted a happy ending on a beach and so not so what to know
This is great argumentation. If anybody was wondering that's why we're repeating it over and over again
Even plaque panther's story arc to a degree is just kind of pointless filler if you what
Fuck dude, you mean pointless?
Pointless filler is what he said. What the hell?
It culminates with the finale. What the fuck are you talking about? This hurts my brain
Stop it. Really? Look at it. His character arc is about him wanting revenge against bucky
But at the end he just kind of gross tired of that
And he's like, you know vengeance has consumed you
Even people who hate this movie would never agree with that. That's bullshit
Oh, that's great. I just decide start to
Where do I subscribe?
I gotta write a gedelb thing you guys entertain yourselves
And it's also a really good scene because it's like it explains zemo's
like
What he what his goal was his motivation in a very clear way
Like more it's so good. How do you address me? What what's up?
I'm looking at the thumbnail for this stream. I'm trying to figure out what the fuck is going on on the right
Exactly. That's the point. You have no idea what we're covering. It's all a mystery except for
Movie bob's eyes staring at you and spider-man and the wisecrack logo. Oh god. What is that?
It's the the idea is that it's a smoky mess of all different things because I have no idea what we're covering to be honest with
I've got a selection
abstract painting
Yes
No, what it actually looks like is is that you've put loads of transparent layers on it and then used the smudge tool a bunch
Am I on the right track? Oh, yeah, totally dude i'm shit with photoshop
It looks like I don't know it looks I don't know it looks like after birth
Looks like something eldritch especially because of movie about being there
All right
Is everybody okay with this folk for gudelb the dark knight is actually about harvey dent and batman the joker is just filler
This is made obvious by the joker pursuing batman until the end until he just gets bored
Yeah, that sounds about right nailed it
They hated me because I told the truth those fucking dc fab boys. Oh my god
You have to you have to start getting help by saying they hate me because i'm telling them the truth
That has to go in there
I don't hear typing add it to the list
All the other things uh, well i'm gonna have to say the x fanboys like I don't know what i'll be referring to
Everyone who disagrees with me is is sheep
Well when you're arguing like this they must be
How do you stand against points like this like such as no
How do you deal with such you just have to put no in there I can't do it because out of context that'll literally
Someone tells you anything and you just say no. I'm gonna have to say
make a
very
Disagreeable point
Then just say no
There you go, that's that's that's I have to write myself like directions as well as actual quotes
Black panther's story arc to a degree is just kind of pointless filler if you really look at it
His character arc is about him wanting revenge against bucky
But at the end he just kind of grows tired of that. I don't believe that's how he's described it. He grows tired
If you really look at it gives the most basic summary i've ever seen
Somebody who wasn't even watching like they already look at it visually. They're like, yeah, he put his helmet down. I guess he's bored
They're at the wikipedia or something
And he sees that zemo is the mastermind and then he just kind of settles with proper justice by just arresting zemo
Oh wait, so we're finally into the zemo criticism everybody always seems to go with zemo as the weakest part of the film
So maybe this will be more
Doable versus the rest we've had so far and I kind of quickly address him
I would love to dedicate a whole section to this ridiculous character
I could explain why season eight episode five of game of thrones is bad over like three hours, but instead i'll just say it's bad
Just say no
I have a clip of them being like and here it is season eight episode five of game of thrones just cuts to black no
video ends
Even more ridiculous motives, but I ridiculous motives his motivation
Is extremely streamlined. It's like
His family were murdered as a result of the avengers
He wants to get some form of payback for this
To exact justice upon them because they always escape it
What what is my favorite?
My favorite line I think in the movie is the avengers like they went home. It's like
And it's hard because his home was destroyed by them
Both the love and the actual structure
He doesn't get to you know, I love the part where he says, um, i'm gonna try and kill you
better men have tried like
Smart motherfucker
Smartman
Dedicate a whole section to this ridiculous character and his even more ridiculous motives
But I believe the majority acknowledge this to be the weak link of the film
So i'll just kind of leave it at that. I can flub that take the wheel
I love that everybody acknowledges him as the weak link. So i'm not going to talk about it, right?
Thanks for making the analysis video then
Hey, man, this is an in-depth analysis not an in-in-depth analysis
Like what if this is the first one i've seen the first review of this film?
It's like well, I don't know anything about zemo. All you said is is the weak one
The reason why civil war is such a mixed bag. You're gonna do that at least link to someone who doesn't
Can you just throw a whole bunch of bullet points on screen quick just so you can be like oh
I'm trying to get into the mindset of someone who makes an analysis video and then at one point goes
I could go into why all of this character is really bad and why none of it makes any sense
But I will not
Well, that would be too boring notice emo. We would lose interest similarly to black panther losing interest in killing bucky
It's thematically relevant. Yeah, wouldn't that be on scene?
But I guess it wouldn't be the point so
Damn so i'll just kind of leave it at that the reason why civil war is such a mixed bag
Is because the plot as a whole is not a very confusing one. In fact, it's rather easy to follow along apparently not
You didn't follow. Fuck all
Did you watch the film action to distract you from its flaws?
However, it is a plot that as soon as you begin to think about the details it falls apart on nearly every level
It gets better
Well, no, he said it now. So we just need a justification
To those who've seen my video why the mcu sucks
You'll probably hate my opinion of this film anyway
Did you need that did you need that
Oh man like the just you're all right
Just go for it. You don't imagine I started every video of mine with that shit
Like i'm talking every single one i'm like game of thrones lovers will hate my video
I don't care. You're fat boys. You're talking about you're talking about the most universally reviled thing ever like
Game of thrones season eight lovers are gonna hate me for this one
A show who shows dislike boss season eight lovers probably hit a lot of things to be fair. Yeah, true
Oh, but what's that say in the in the description?
It's just my personal opinion you all right there fringy. Oh, no, I keep having haircuts
I'm trying to models of water and it's not helping
And uh, actually I probably need to go to sleep
Roof that water is bad for you, but don't you want to see this through to the end fringy?
It's just three more minutes probably less than that considering he's probably got an outro
It'll take like 20 hours
Everything I said regarding to the mcu as a whole
Can also be applied to this film and that is equally as insulting to me
Civil war is the 13th film by marvel and we're still toying around with the same concepts as the first avengers film
A villain pits the avengers against each other. This also
What?
Okay. Whoa
Whoa, there's a difference between literally mind controlling somebody and then presenting them a perspective that they differ on ideologically
Those are very different the idea hulk punch iron man iron man punch cap same thing
Wow
Were you here yesterday for uh
Wait fringy. I know I know you were for the for the brook show no bullshit video
uh, yes
Which was essentially him going?
Saying that azerothron and avengers have got exactly the same plot because two characters get mind control
It's so bad
It's my soul getting i'm getting serious vibes of that here
So happened for the second time in age of old sean and I swear to god if they pull this shit again in infinity war
I'm gonna lose my shit. What really
Was I did here's the most this film had well rate guardians
Oh, yeah, we got man and stuff. But again, you can't say that's the same. They don't know each other. It's the same
no
Literally two characters having any kind of disagreement even down to just what flavor of ice cream they prefer. That's that's it which happens by the way
quiet sheep
These movies are the same. There's two scenes two scenes where the characters speak
These movies are the same they're filmed digitally
So many of these films have kept talking to iron man
I noticed that
I have noticed that it happened in avengers age of ultron
Civil they just keep doing it. It's so shameless. But can you maybe come up with something new infinity war is good
Well infinity war was the only one that they finally broke out of this stupid formula
I don't know. They talk about each other. Does that count? Yeah. Yeah, never mind rep j
Quiet sheep
In time in age of ultron and I swear to god if they pull this shit again in infinity war i'm gonna lose my shit
in finny war
Really
grinds my gears the most is that this film had a great premise at its core and had the
Potential to break the formula for the typical marvel. You've not proved that it didn't you've simply said it didn't
Film yet
They decided to shove that wonderful premise to the sideline by jumping the gun and attempting the civil war storyline
When it was just way too soon to attempt it for a number of reasons what this film should have done
Was focused primarily on the core plot lines between tony stephen bucky
I mean that was easily the core the
Is the part of the it's I find this weird because the word core is going to throw me for a luke
So i'm like what exactly do you mean by that the thing that happens the most?
It's the part you don't need
Meaning it's the least valuable bit you throw it away at the end. So why is it the core?
a new marvel tree
It's got the seeds in it
Honestly, I I feel like his ads would be like well i'd be just mostly about that
Okay
So the film is the wider seeming
You know that applies to everything in the film not you know, a narrow character conflict someone rather resting
Very kindly putting like super chats of hour four of 24
So at the end going through the super chats, you'll know how far how many more super chats you've got to go
Someone's very kindly leaving super chats
Just say like hour four of 24 so that when you're going through the super chats at the end you'll be you'll be going
Oh hour three of 24. Oh
And you'll you'll have read you'll have been reading them at that point for like two hours. You know, we're uh
More than a tenth of the way through
Um, oh for the sake of freaking out. I'll just keep pushing up the video
Captain america civil war attempts to be two different movies at the same time
How many times have you guys heard that that's almost a buzzword now
It doesn't know what it wants to be it's two things at the same time three things at the same time
It's annoying because you've got to be more specific and why they don't match
like yeah
I'm just trying to think of an example
To the winter soldier focusing on character relations and friendships while at the same time it attempts to be the grandiose civil war film
We were promised and it did both of those things one
And it combined them like they're both relevant to each other
consistently
throughout
Video hasn't changed that at all
Another aspect about this film that's just downright insulting to me is that we were flat out lied to the directors of the film
Okay, let's read these the consequences of civil war will have an even more significant impact than winter soldier in
Oh just in general, I guess in civil war we're going to change the marvel cinematic universe's psychology and it's an extreme shift
Yeah, I agree. It's making this the heroes responsible for their actions and actually having a real world for them to deal with
Part of this shift is ending to civil war which russo promised will have an extreme impact on the fans of the marvel franchise
russo promised a very dramatic ending that will be controversial for a lot of people
Yeah, yeah split the avengers into two sides
This is an in this is in line with previous statements from russo talking about the upcoming shift in the overarching marvel cinematic universe speaking to guardian
In january russo said it's cyclical some new avengers in future movies are going to become
Prominent and then some may not be around anymore. Yep. That's definitely what happens
So we were lied to with these statements apparently
How was it false advertising like I don't I got what I expected
and then
Like she's insulting to me is that we were flat out lied to the directors of the film have gone on record to state that
By the end of the film nothing will be the same, but that's not what they said. That's not even in these quotes
Yeah
It's that they're going to change the universe's psychology. It doesn't actually
Irrelevant of that
That is the case
Things aren't the same i'm curious to see his justification for that shit. Why is this video so bad?
Film have gone on record to state that by the end of the film nothing will be the same, but that's complete
Bullshit this film ties up everything in a nice little bow with steve sending a letter
What
There's literally eight avengers of vigilantes now that everything is back to normal
I
Love that we've got infinity war to basically stamp the confirmation box of yeah, civil war had some severe consequences
Bullshit
How
I'm confused as to how he reached this conclusion
Don't don't he's explaining it. You're just interrupting him. That's what you do on you
Taking back all shit this film ties up everything in a nice little bow with steve sending a letter to tony
Saying that if he ever needs their help
They will return just as they all because they would be out of character for him to say hey tony even if the world is
destroyed fuck you
That's his army just lands and captures something gives him the phone. He doesn't use it. Remember. He's not actually
He's not pissed at tony
He's sad that all of this has happened
The fact that he's maintaining his principles and his faith in his friend. He understands what tony did and why?
He knows now that they can't be a team though because they've now split into government avengers and vigilante avengers
I know this we did the we had we responded to basically the exact same criticism from cinema sins on infinity war
where he said uh when
When tony was preparing to call camp?
Um, yeah, I can't wait for care. I've forgotten
Tab nothing has changed. Yeah, i'm sure there will be an element of distrust amongst an element of distrust
But not the team the team doesn't exist and they lose
Characters remember how they like that actually comes to an actual scene in endgame. Do you trust me?
Tony blew up at him
yeah
Aged really well going forward. I don't guarantee you that at the end of the day. Nothing's changed or likely nothing
Nothing's changed. How do you argue that?
I was just saying it over and over again
The argument makes more sense for avengers and age of ultron in that you'd be like the team are together
Like the most brain-dead take you could have but still
I missed the black panther from civil war. Oh, I know man. He's so badass
right
Thing will have changed as a result of this film which would have been fine if this was avengers 2
But this is the 13th film by marvel. We're well past that point. We need to start seeing progress
This film is that you dingleberry?
No
Had this film stripped away all characters and plot lines outside of its core themes this film could have been a
Phenomenal springboard into a true civil war story because by the end of this film
Steven, tony would have been bitterly on opposite sides of a line
I guess it's invalid because if his film they would have been bitter enemies and they're not that they're for bad
Well, why would they be their friends?
Why would they be bitter enemies?
Stupid
What is like I was gonna be like how else can I respond to it was like there's nothing of you to work with
There's no flesh to that argument. I'm just like, okay. No
And what's more by the end of that civil war story
We could have gotten an instant transition into infinity war which would further develop the characters and bonds because like it already does
You fucking wet blanket of stupid and I got him. Oh my turn up again
They would be forced to work together once more after almost like like they are yeah
Everything he's talking about happened feels bad, man
In closing there's so much to enjoy about captain america's civil war that I completely understand
If you find this movie to be the best marvel movie to date, I however
Cannot overlook the film lost within the film and the fact that I cannot
I cannot overlook my confusion
The film lost within the film that's a war crime in the statement
I hate it statement for sure
The game within the game within the film
This is too good
I'm not too good
The 13th movie and does so little to shake up the basic formula by the end
It doesn't help now if you're still watching to this point in the video
I'd like to thank you all. I'm sure it's a 20 minute
even longer
For just talking about one. Did you just say that's a long time to talk about one movie. He hasn't met us. Okay
I was planning on making a series of videos next on the transformer movies
But I will be happy to take requests into consideration. Uh, redo civil war. I have to pay attention to it
Consider watching the film. Sorry consider watching it for future videos if you'd rather see something else
Hopefully I can get these out, uh quicker next time. I do have a little bit more free time now
Hope you enjoyed and I will see you guys next time. Why is he not made them?
It's not made anymore, man. Maybe this one wasn't well received
None of them were well received. That's your opinion, sir
No, I'm looking at the like to just like
Wait, actually was this video not well received? I can't remember what the no it was it was like half and half
Oh, that's exactly that's actually better than I thought it would be
Then what's so why the mcu sucks is that like remember just just
Be nice
People who may be tempted to leave a comment on this video, you know, you're welcome to disagree with him
But be nice we always have to I haven't reminded people of that in a while
You're gonna leave any comments, but yes, uh, that was something
That makes me upset because it's such a good movie rags is here people
Oh
The rags is online though rags is online rags rags said he's going to the store to pick something up and he's gonna ping me when he's back
uh
Well, I mean I won't be seeing him because I go I go to sleep. It's okay
You you you did your rotation for me. You're a good man
Oh
Hi for me
Hey, hey, how you doing?
Doing all right that time. I finally uh got to meet you
It's funny it's just like oh, hi good to meet you. Hey, see ya. Yeah. See ya
Um from falling door. We've had guests. That's what the idea was supposed to be. We had be alex
Uh day and freaky for like a good near four hours. But yeah
Yeah, now it's time to rotate. It was great. Yeah, it's good stuff. Man. We'll maybe catch you at the end as well
Yes, potentially I got I got another 20 hours of this shit this disgusting depraved shit. I mean
All right, catch you later on later
All right, um, so rags is gonna be popping in soon ish
Oh sweet
uh
The video that's up next is actually one that
Up next up. Yeah
Um, I believe it's the one you'd want to do right south for the uh, the brown table one
Yes, the defending a very great movie called the dark knight rises which is not
rifled with plot holes and character inconsistencies and retarded contrivances
And a whole ton of bullshit that I spotted for the first time
Yesterday because this movie literally gets worse every single fucking time that I watch it
I have seen many an anger from you on the server about this film about this video
You guys the film I haven't seen I watched one second of the video before rage quitting because I knew that I would have to just
Respond to it live but I I need to sort of set the tone here
I hate this film more than the last jedi
I'm not going to say that the last jedi is a worse film than the dark knight rises
I think the dark knight rises just hurts a lot more because um, so I already was kind of
feeling meh about the force awakens
And I wasn't too invested in the sequel trilogy
so
My brother who loved the force awakens. I think he was like more disappointed with the last jedi than I was
um
And the last one is a fucking terrible film
But the first two nolan batman movies are so goddamn good
And I was really looking forward to seeing the dark knight rises like my anticipation was through the roof
I was way more excited for the dark knight rises than i've ever been for any star wars film
and uh
It it fucking sucked
And I don't know I'm heartbroken. It it actually breaks my heart
Well, what's cool about this is brown table is fast becoming one of the like
He's like he's a tier above total like he makes really bad videos. So
It'll be great. Uh, there's a link in the uh in the group. We're into the watch together
Uh, southport
Just a heads up i've seen this video and it's really something special
Oh
And like I said, uh, I think this will be one rags can jump into whenever he pings me as well
So that'll happen then we'll be up to five and I think we said
Uh, I don't know if I should cap it at five or six wait metals asked me something six to me before
I I feel like we we can do it right guys. We can pull it over again
We had seven on the stream on saturday. Yeah, but your streams are unruly and have no rules. They are unruly
That's oh
And I I just wanted to say hi jay. It's nice to finally meet you
Hey, man
Guess I could say the same
Appreciate you finally. Uh, I I appreciate you following me on twitter a couple weeks ago
Oh, I I didn't realize I've done that but i'm i'm sure I have
I I
Hadn't realized i'd done that I hadn't remembered i'd done that that's the word to use I follow I follow people on twitter
nice
Well, it's appreciate it. Anyways, i'm quite tired. I'm sorry
Oh, that's fine. Well, how long how long dragon you've got left jay before you'll have to uh,
Maybe maybe an hour
So good. I figured that more people will start wanting to show up now
I actually uh shad sent me a message. He wants to turn up early australian wake up time, which is like
six hours from now ish so
Um, i've got a video that pertains to objectivity in some way. So you'll probably jump in for that theo
How much time do you have?
uh
More or less infinite time. I can be here until I
Get bored and need to go to sleep. I guess goodness. I'll have to see it
It's just just kick me out at some point. Yeah, i was gonna say I might kick out people depending on who goes up
people saying get er I
He told me that he may be able to show up. He may not like it's
The way that I I assume i'll make this work is that
You guys in chat if anyone shows up who you know has been a past guest just at me
I'll figure out and get them on or if they pm me. I don't know how else to do this because
Like if I if I go ahead and send a message to everybody who could potentially come on they might all be like
Yeah, i'm here. You know
Can we can we get remarkable republican as a guest
Can we can we get him, please? I really want to hear his his takes
I mean probably post 50 like if we're gonna have him on he'll probably be after 50
But um, yeah, i'm willing to hear him argue for tywin's homosexuality
I hate to mention the stream again, but we covered him on it
Um, and he wants to build a christian society on the moon
On not on the moon on mars. Sorry
It's like uh, um, that was like the best video we covered on that one. It's amazing
He thinks you can go outside on mars wearing a scuba suit and heavy winter coat
Of course some people have different ideas. Why are you trying to say that like it's a bad thing jay?
See you didn't even say no
Oh, I know you don't have an argument. No, no, no, it's my argument. Ooh cynical reviews this year and veto. Hmm
Rags is coming plus cynical plus
How do I guys you gotta tell me how to balance this
I mean
Theo you'd probably be interested in doing the objectivity one, right?
Probably you want to if depending on let's see if if veto and cj want to come in
You both want to come in. Let me know smud boys here as well. And log j long bone. Oh, fuck. Oh, jesus
The portals have opened up
Oh, so cj is a bit busy. All right, that's one veto said oh lord
Oh, I just realized vito is south pole
Oh, no, we're cool now. Okay. Good. Good. Good. There you go
Yeah, we we we settle our differences in the dms
It's all good. He embraced the duck meme
Good
Can we can we do the beams by the way?
Uh, once rags comes on I guess
We'll do the brown table video and then memes hopefully and fucking hell I got an eight hour cap
Hopefully I can do some super chats after that then as well
Well, it's not no it's not an eight hour cap. Actually, I can go over eight hours. I can go up to 12 from what I understand
Uh, who else is around he has to finish a script so I don't feel guilty
Good
What's a j long bone was there is she?
Pick jane long bone or else you're racist and sexist. I already know that
Hi vito, how you doing?
All right, then
Oh hello hello, hello. Hey there. I figured it out. Hey
Excellent
Yeah, yeah, uh, so once rags pops in that'll make six and then if
If say for example j long bone if she is actually in chat, I haven't seen her name yet. Any of you guys. Uh, I saw a pop-up. Oh
All right. I'll invite her to the discord if she joins it. That's when i'd ask if you can pop out with the oh
sure
You
My god happy 50th, I know i'm so old
You're you're an old beautiful bastard. I wonder how many people would believe it if I said I was 50 years old
I mean you get some people look like sir
I mean, why would you lie about that?
I just gotta start talking a little bit more like this. I get no 50 year olds aren't that bad
They're not like half dead
Um, yeah j long bone if you hear this then you you can still get in whether or not you're available right now
You've got you you got access now if you're going discord
um
You epic store
All there is an old man for 72
Yep. Oh, I thought someone said get brown table on could you imagine?
People have different opinions that is how we'd open isn't it?
I'm sure you'd be more than uh, fantastic. Um, i'm kind of
We'd we'd we'd ask him to say we'd like to say the thing he's like what thing say the thing
I just saw someone in chat say seo can come on whenever there's too few people as
I'm just filler. I like that
The most b-list it's my favorite. Um, well, I guess
I guess we can kick on because uh
I don't think there's anyone else like I said
We're still waiting for I was gonna say it would make more sense for rags to get here and then we start
But I figure we should just start anyway. It's not like he's gonna be missing out on a brown table video
So, uh link to watch together is in the group you're in if veto if you haven't done that already
I don't know if
The five i'm seeing in the thing are the five of us
No, I didn't click it. I'll click
Wait, oh, yeah, right. I was like who else would it be and I remembered we had people leave
Some people don't leave when they should
Did you just post it in the group or did you post earlier?
This is early you just scroll up
Yeah, all right. I found it
Are you oh, yeah, you're in. All right. So yeah context
If you don't know this everyone fucking knows this the nolem batman films are typically looked at as batman begins is is
Is decent uh dark knight is amazing dark knight rises terrible. That's the general consensus as far as i'm aware
a lot of people have different takes like
Batman begins as the best one or the dark knight is terrible or the dark knight rises
It's actually a very well made film and um, the video we're looking at right now is called
defending the dark knight rises better than you remember
Which is something you probably got from cosmonal variety hour. Actually, I feel like he's the one that uh,
not so much popularized but definitely gave fame to the idea of
Thing something that you remember because he did it with the ramy films than me
That's just like a fairly standard title though. Surely well in the video essay crowd
I've not seen anyone do it before cosmonaut even i'm probably wrong on that
I'm just saying from my perspective and then to see him do it not long after i'm like
Are there any uh, are there any cosmonaut videos lined up?
There is one actually, uh, let's see what my notes on it do
I might have put a name next to it
And that's why i'm trying to do this trying to get videos that are more suitable to the guests at the time
No, it's got no name next to it. So i'll just be covered randomly
It's about stairways
Um, so anyway, oh is it about the three people have strong opinions about that movie
Those no, yeah
No, it's but it's about one of those that people don't have particular. Yeah, that's just like a space wizard movie for kids, right?
Yeah, yeah, if you like honestly if you want to talk about it then admit first that you're a fucking baby
He has a video about dishonor too. Why do I not know this? What brand do you have a space child?
I have to watch this and I have to
Okay, take the take into my mind
I have a question go for it
So joker is coming out joker and we're still talking about the dark night risers
Is
Saying it's not relevant sponsor. It's a it's a running meme. It's um, basically when we covered brown table
On captain marvel. I don't know if you know that everyone freaked out about the I say freaked out
I I talked about fuck it the the sea the deleted scene where she like electrocuted that guy
Yeah, yeah, so brown table made the argument. Why is everyone talking about this when spider-man is coming out?
Wow, and we found it very amusing and it's been every time a new movie comes out all the old movies go away
Nobody talks about citizen Kane
Well now brown table is now going to tell us what makes good bat. The first he must tell us about skill share
Yes skill share
Tried by skill share go to the link in the description to get started on a two-month free trial
That's
Guys guys trilogies
Okay, so the uh
When I tried watching this video
I made it to as far as him saying trilogies with the word on screen
And that's when I knew I had to quit because it was like, okay
Okay, I just I have to let my reaction be natural when I watch this on efap
So I have like literally everything past this I have not seen I am going in completely blind
I just like
Wasn't that like a really shitty ad let's just do that one again because like if you didn't for a second pretend
You haven't you've never heard of skill share. No, no, they they get you to put
They get you to say this video was sponsored by at the beginning and then they do the ad at the end
Yeah, but like what i'm suggesting is that um
You're like, what even is it you you could be like what they typically do is this is what's sponsored by skill share a
Web service that teaches blah blah blah like I can't remember what skill share does specifically but
I'm pretty sure it's just for the brand recognition at the beginning and then the actual
Okay, so it's like I just thought it was funny
Uncommon sense content interesting way to uh
Uh
Brand yourself uncommon sense content
Buy skill share. Am I supposed to know what the table is brown table is just a creator. Um
the video essayist
He's a video essayist in like the same click as like just right. He's a fucking beep factory
Nando the movies. Yeah, he's one of the not good ones. Got it
Well, the most tisney one second i'm sure it's subjective as to whether or not a video essayist is good or bad
Like tonaled look one of the best i'd say other people might
To the link in the description to get started on a two-month retrial
Trilogies y'all love them. There's something special about them
I'm already like why i've already thrown off like trilogies. We all love them. What is something special about
Most trilogies
Like most trilogies like flounder at least at one point especially like near the end like spider-man 3. Um,
Uh fucking i'm trying to think of other movies that fucked up in the in the third act
Um, i'm in the dark knight rises, of course, which we're about to go into
Shrek for the shrek. Yes. Yeah. Hang on. Why was he showing shrek when he was saying trilogies? That's for shrek film
Well, it's a trilogy if you don't include the fact that there's four, okay
Jay
While brown table kind of forgot that shrek has four movies jx. He definitely did not a lot of people
But people want to forget about the third uh shrek as well
Like oh, yeah matrix, uh godfather i'm looking at
Right now shrek stumble on the second one though. Yeah, like well just the matrix trilogy in general fucking sucks people are saying star wars
no
Well, the return of the jedi is good. This is where we start wondering
Uh what it'll be. This is the problem. It's like we all love trilogies. Like let me stop you there
We need to
He said there's something we love trilogy. Oh somebody says blade all those blade movies are good. Oh
Trinity come on. No
As if there's like so there's two movies. That's not enough. I believe there are there are more trilogies
Yeah, there are more trilogies that don't have consistent quality than do i'm pretty sure that's the world we live in right
Yeah, like the only good trilogies I can really think of off the top of my head would be like lord of the rings
And the born movies star wars like like well, okay star wars as well
I'm talking like all three are like consistently really really fucking good
Whereas with star wars return of the jedi is kind of like it's okay, but it's still you know
it's worse than the others by uh
By a wide margin, but back to the future holds up. I think
The third one is third one drops off a bit
Yeah, I was going to say what we're looking at stuff like the matrix or pirates the caribbean or fucking other things like back to
The future trilogy. Yeah, that's solid compared
Oh, yeah, a guy mentioned that diehard 2 kind of sucked but one and three were good
A lot of people hate temple of doom when it comes to indiana jones. Uh, how's everyone here?
I was having this discussion last night. I'm not a fan of temple of doom. I hate temple of doom personally
I'm I'm willing to hear out why it's a good film and i'm willing to rewatch it that when I watched I was like
I didn't care for it. I think
I actually think last crusade is the weakest of the three. That's my favorite one of the three. Yeah, that's my favorite
No, I love last crusade. I think we're in good company here
No, he said that's my least favorite. Oh, it's your least favorite. Oh, well, fuck you
Yeah
So, yeah point being we love trilogies, right yeah, they're the best
Yes, I do love trilogies
I was about to say to get super pedantic if he was like no
I just mean that we like it when there's you know, a lot of something that we enjoyed
I'm like, so wouldn't we like quadrilogies more than trilogies and
pentology
Versus more than that. Yeah, like what a weird. Do you think this was just a standard for an intro?
He was just like, I don't know trilogies. We all love him. He needed some way to segue into his point
Lemon say he didn't really think about what he was saying
He made one pass on the on the script. He's like i'll revisit that line later
That doesn't make sense and then just never did picture
We all love trilogies
I actually think brown table would lose his mind if he saw us doing this be like all I said was I like
Do we like trilogies? Why are they still on this?
He's like jesus christ i've got to reach the dark knight rises somehow. How do I how do I get this to film?
trilogy
We could have said this with batman. Wait
Does it I find it interesting to refer to the cap trilogy as a trilogy as well
It's it like I think it's valid. It's just strange because the mcu is like this one big thing
Someone's mentioning the the kung fu panda trilogy. I don't know if that's meant to be a good example or bad example
I love the kung fu panda movies. I've seen the first two and liked them both
The first one third one's not as good as they only made three three, okay
The third one's not as it's not as good as the first two, but it's still good
So the only thing I remember about kung fu panda is uh dan harman wrote on it for a little bit
Oh, did he write really?
Yeah, but he got kicked out because he was too cantankerous and he said that the villain was basically jesus
And he's like you can't prophesize that the villain dies because then the villain is jesus
I don't know. It's this whole thing. Okay. It's a big long rant about getting fired from working on kung fu panda. It's very interesting
There's something special about them
And it's always kind of fun to see if all three movies are gonna end up great
If the series starts great and ends poorly or if it starts poorly and ends great
But why is that specific to trilogies rather than just movies?
I'm so confused didn't he uh make a whole video about why spider-man 3 is better than you remember
Like why is he using was that him? No, he did do that. It was him. It was him
episode 31
We covered it and the the drags of clickbait. I want to say that episode is called. Oh, you're right. I rewatched that recently
God if i've been going for like a year or something
Yeah, how does god damn it brown table? Can't you just be consistent for once? No, he is he's consistently awful
So this reason for why we like trilogies is that we get to see if they're good or not? Yeah, I don't again
How is that not applicable to literally everything we consume?
We get to see if it was good or not sometimes they're bad, which is what's so exciting about them
We also said like they'll start good and end bad or vice versa and it's like you can have that with a movie
Not just trilogies. That's what I love about trilogies
Fuck that
Such a bizarre point great if the series starts great and ends poorly or if it starts poorly and ends great
I wanted to go back to the late 2000s early 2010s and revisit a trilogy. I hold very dear to my heart. Oh
Jay Longbone just did a super chat. You can join if you want to by the way
I sent you an invite with discord if you sign into discord, you'll have access to a channel that's titled
Right now fringy jx. See smiler owl. So if you see that you can hit join call and you'll be here and then you'll boot theo
Out that's jay longbone. Please come in
Good. Bye
Not yet theo. She hasn't killed you yet
And she said uh, we all love trilogies my third suicide attempt rounded out the first two really well
Yeah, that's suicidal tripling
And that's the dark night trilogy
The third film in the trilogy is the dark night rises and enough people talk about this movie in my opinion
There's so much the movie does right but internet discourse talks about it as if it's a mediocre mess
But it's not isn't it all subjective mr. Brown table. He said he can prove it
Wait and I can prove it. Oh god, you're right. I was just behind that
Isn't he the subjective man? Like i'm confused. I thought he's one of those he can prove it in his opinion
That's a shit wig if we're I think we should we should scrolly scrolly scroll
I'm confused as to where he's timeline. Oh, okay
But go ahead
I'm confused as to what he's talking about
He's saying internet discourse tends to hate on this movie. It has a 90 audience score on rotten tomatoes 87 from the critics
Wow, and it's uh, like it's very hard positive stuff about it's dark night rises
It's very hard to find a youtube video that criticizes it like the only uh, there's only two that I could find
One of them is doug walker's review
and the other one is
some guy did like a top 10 list like I think two weeks after the film came out and
Uh his like 10th is his first reason for why he hated the film
Was how the bat cave was designed and then I just clicked away like okay
Not going to bring up legitimate points against this film
um
But yeah, it's like every other review that you go on like if you look up jeremy johns, uh, my doppelganger chris stuckman
um
fucking anyone
Yms, they all actually yeah. I recently rewatched red letter media's review of it and they were hugely
Oh, yeah, even even red letter media was positive towards this. I remember pretty skeptical
I remember absolutely being in the minority when I said this was garbage when I first came out of the cinema with
My group of friends like I remember a couple of them were like middling alex was in favor of it
He's not now. I make sure to clarify that uh, many people aren't now
But I remember hating it because I loved the dark night and I thought this was a fucking disaster as a sequel
I yeah, I was the same way as soon as I came out
I was like that was not good and the thing is that like the first 20 minutes or so
I thought were overall fine, but the writing
Was kind of like questionable to begin with the uh opening scene in the um
In the plane makes no goddamn sense and we can go over that later if you like
um
But like the the overall setup was like, okay, this is starting out. Okay
But yeah, the writing gets really fucking bad when the second act begins and then it gets even worse in the third act
Hi rags
Hello, how do you do? Hey rags? I'm all right
applied for a
of the 20 hours of sometimes
Is it is it 20? We we are currently at 4 38. So
At least 20. All right
um, yeah when I
Because when I I set my alarm and I woke up and then I checked discord
and
You had started like four or so hours ago and I was trying to figure out how have you started you're not supposed to start
for like another
two or so hours
So I went through my discord messages because I was trying to figure out what had happened
So I went through our messages and because I know you said like 13 and a half hours from you know
When I asked and this says that I asked that at 6 30 p.m
I was like, no, I asked that at like 11 pm the previous day
You know it which is why I thought it was a certain time. So I spaced it out. So I have no idea why
But I would I don't know. It's weird
Well, it's all good
We've been stacked on on guests regardless. So it's uh, nice to have you here and uh, we we've we've covered
You missed out on someone saying?
Captain america civil war is bad
so
That was that was a bad video and you missed us covering jim sterling referring to vr goggles as privileged goggles because
Blind people people without legs and fat people can't use them very well
That's so stupid
I do enjoy people using the disabled as a shield to cover their arguments. It's great
memes
But um, yeah, uh, we're currently just started up a brown table video. Would you like to join us ranks?
Yeah, sure
um
Does this mean rags kills me now or
I mean six, I think we said six was our cap. So if anyone now joins you I guess you
Sure
Wait jay longbone still in chat. Did she answer and i've missed it. She said she'll join after this video. Ah, okay
Yeah, in that case, I guess we can stay as the six and uh, we will begin the whole people get replaced
Uh in order of in which they came on. Is that what we'll do? I don't know
As long as they've spent at least a decent amount of time here in some way shape or form that should work out. Uh
Yeah, the link is in um
There at the top of the uh, the chat rags we scroll up you'll find the watch together
Oh, wait is movie circle jerk upset that we're having a 24 hour
Oh my goodness, yeah, they can't they don't know what fun is do they
Well, they've probably experienced it at some point. It was terrifying, but you can't have it for long periods of time
Do these guys fun has happened in short bursts?
Smaller shitty nitpick podcast
What do they do for work they don't do jobs
Oh, this is amazing these poor people I feel so anyone who's here i'm who's who's on movie circle jerk i'm so sorry
No one hears on movie circle jerk
I mean, there's probably some people who remember we knew people who hate watch some of our content
So there's gonna be there's gonna be people
How could anyone hate watch your content? It's long. It takes too long to hate watch me, but they still find a way
Just sit there for hours just like this sucks
Hate it
I like I like the irony of people saying that mauler has nothing better to do with his time than make long videos and whatnot
But they have nothing better to do with their time
But complain about mauler making long videos and doing long streams
Well, they probably argue it takes them minutes to take a picture and upload while it takes me years to make videos
I mean, there's some people where I like i'll quickly browse through their post history and you're like living in their head rent free, dude
well
Don't you know me and rags and by extension wolf I think has been referred to this way as well. We've destroyed conversations about movies now
We're like the reason that discussion is dead
We're a blight on the fucking the the the race of humans
What's the quote the um, I think these men are beyond redemption or something
Twisted shells that was it. Yeah
I was on it was on 47. I think where we we covered the guys who said that objectivity destroys discussion
And then we invited him on for a discussion that went on for lord
How about that
And people take this stuff, too
I just got hate mail yesterday like the first time someone actually found my email address to tell me i'm ruining the star wars community
Oh, you personally?
Yeah, I was like, all right. Well
It's a pretty shitty community if one fat dude makes stupid internet. Well, that's the thing me and rags like shit, man
We have a lot of power. We destroyed conversation
What law can you destroy I found the quote
Fuck it. I really think these twisted shells of men cannot be saved or redeemed in any fashion
There's no way they'll stop acting the way they do no matter how many times they're real
No matter how many times reality fucks them in the ass. They're an insult to film criticism
They're an insult to the star wars fandom
They're an insult to the objectivity versus subjectivity debate. They're an insult to youtube. Hell. They're an insult to the human race
Can we geez man
Can we turn that into like a poppy pasta for the toxic brood
My favorite part about that is that um, I tweet I did a tweet saying movie circle joke seems pretty stupid, right?
um
And loads of people a movie circle circle joke, uh responded to that by saying how can you get offended by what we do?
It's just dumb jokes and memes
Oh, this just goes to show how much they don't understand
That would be irony
Yeah, that's what we do
A couple of all the videos that they like aggressively
Criticized it was the fucking cosmic chicken goliath one
Like you couldn't have chosen a more inappropriate video to say they're nitpicking. They're nitpicking. It's like oh the most casual
alcohol infused
Back alley
Survival scenario
Meme podcast of ours we've ever done and it wasn't even on our channel
It wasn't even here. It was on
uh
Jay's channel. Yeah, it was on jay's channel. Yeah. Yeah, and then they go on
They they keep saying things like how can you spend that long responding to something and like how can you get angry about a watch mojo video?
And then when I say oh they haven't even watched the fucking stream because they they had they'd know that's not even what we're doing
We expect us to watch four hours of something to complain about it
Not expect to watch fucking some of it
It doesn't matter if you know
Which the whole thing of the things you're saying are true
It was basically a meme in the podcast that we weren't even covering the video. The memes were so good
I had to re-upload the memes
The poor poor people
This is your brain on reddit. It just bothers them so much that this podcast exists
They don't they don't want this podcast to exist to entertain people
They think that you're a bad person if you're entertained by efap and mauler
So, I mean you are kind of like one
Yeah, well, I mean I will own up to that
Um, yeah, uh, the link is further up from there rags if you jump in we'll we're on our buddy brown table
Who's well known for making extremely good arguments?
Mm-hmm. Well, uh, i'll throw it back to like
Gee, I hold is that we're confused. Uh
Nice hitting the dark. I haven't seen the dark knight rises. So oh you'll be fine. We all have
You can just check out his like the the thing you should uh, you've missed out his he said trilogies. We all love him
What do you think of that as a point?
Trilogies, we all love them. Uh
We're gonna beat all the trilogies. It's like saying things events. We all love them
I mean if you if you can't think of an intro, you know, you just throw that one in it'll
anyway
Very dear to my heart and that's the dark knight trilogy. I wish we had hearts
The third film in the trilogy is the dark knight rises and not enough people talk about this movie in my opinion
There's so much the movie does right but internet discourse. What would be enough people talking about it?
three
Seven talks about it as if it's a mediocre mess, but it's not and I can prove it
The most important elements of the movie I can prove it. I hope well the nature of proving something
is such that
If you would if you were to prove something rise would that not then be an objective truth and he doesn't believe yeah
It's not your it's not your opinion if you can prove it
He subjectively believe or he subjectively hopes that he can objectively prove it
It's like the basis of like even the scientific method and everything
In my opinion, he says no you can prove it. I can prove it. I hope in the video he's released
He's like so did you or did you
You put the video out. So I guess maybe he would say proving something is subjective at that point i'd be like, oh
Why do you hope to prove it?
Like that would be good. It was like, oh, I hope to fucking time travel by closing my eyes
Something that you say before you start the video
And then at the end you'll know the answer have I proven it
Maybe that's what'll happen at the end. You'll go and so I proved it
You don't know so so I didn't
With its writing its themes now before we get started on the video
I wanted to let you all know that if you are interested in becoming a writer or filmmaker
There's one place that you have to put it on screen. That means it's more meaningful
Skillshare
Venezuela and that's skillshare skillshare. That's right. Skillshare is an online learning
I don't understand this whole video begin with him saying that this is sponsored by skillshare
Like why is he?
Why is he cutting into a commercial like a minute later?
I don't understand what the point of the first bit was if he's just going to do it this early anyway
It's not like lindy bay
She will start off by saying this video was sponsored by you know, great courses plus but more on them later
And then he goes like they're half the whole video and then 20 minutes later
And then he does the little thingy and then he just carries on he's like now that i've got you, you know
You know, I wonder if that's something they force you to do though. I wonder if there's like some
Well, they well, no, so do either way. So there's a guy named nando v movies. I'm not a huge fan of him
He makes some good videos, but he at least does his skillshare
Shilling like at the end of his stuff
But i'm saying you probably have this good. Do you have to start the video with a title card that says sponsored by skillshare?
Oh, yeah, that's part of their terms. It is it is part of the terms
Well, then he got it out of the way similar people
I'm guessing personally i'm personally more butthurt by the fact that he's doing this thing right here more than the thing at the beginning
Yeah, I don't know how people time this. I don't know what yeah
Stick around i'm guessing you get to choose where to put this portion
But you could put it in the middle or whatever and yeah
I guess he wants it to be that he puts at the beginning so we can have one continuous sort of
Oh video with thousands of classes covering dozens of creative and entrepreneurial skills
Are you someone that wants to learn how to color grade your footage or?
There's a youtube tutorial for that that will teach you everything you need to know
Yeah, this is probably much better than skillshare will yeah 80 percent of what I learned was some shitty nobody's youtube video on
On how to do something that 30 000 people have made on youtube. There's 12
bajillion videos on everything on youtube that you'll ever need to learn about how to color grade your videos
Yeah
Yeah, so i'm sorry rags
Um oof who've mentioned you have to announce it at the beginning that you have a sponsor
But you don't have to go in depth with it at the beginning
Right. Well, it depends on the term
They'll send you lots of different terms and they'll probably give you like better rates if you do the full out at the beginning
Yeah, because i'm sure like mauler and I know
Um when you get emails from people they'll often ask what your rates are
And then they'll say it needs to be this long at around this time point in the video
And so it's kind of different like with um
With the tayrock when they came to me, they're like, oh, yeah
Just like 15 seconds or so within the somewhere at the beginning of your video. I'm like, oh, that's fair
And some will be like, oh it's got to be at the beginning and it has to be x time long
It needs to be like a minute long and you have to use the footage from the mobile game or whatever it is
Some are better than others
Do that
Write screenplays. That's me
Well, you're in luck because skillshare offers all of that
Maybe you should take some of those classes
Gives you unlimited access so you can join the classes and communities that benefit you like illustration graphic design photography creative writing animation
I know we have to learn about
Ux design look
You're one of those people that skips over videos and then ignores the context of the argument. Aren't you fine art?
Hey, he's kind of selling me on this
Might have to get some skill. He's really a good sir. That's sad, you know, I mean it yeah
There's a good chance of skillshare provides some value but
You can get all this stuff anyway
If brown table never went to skillshare, then he wouldn't have created his utopia fan
Movie wait, what's that? You can see animation and fine art are right on top of each other. You need to find rat
Film and video you name it this class
For example by ryan booth will help you learn how to make your footage look more professional by giving you tips on when to film
Certain lighting conditions you have to take into consideration when filming and more
Wow
How many make your movies look like Christopher Nolan?
Make a movie look like a Christopher Nolan movie
This this will definitely move
This will definitely help you with your advertisers
But this is not going to help your video like look better at all
We were suffering through this for like an entire minute now
I wonder um what the drop-off rate for this is how much of an audience do you think you'll lose for this huge huge?
I mean the the the rate's got to climb back up after the ad finishes though because people will just instinctively skip it
All right. Yeah, like at least I would I would just
I just click on the time bar and I don't care if I overshot it by a bit. Yeah
At least in an movie movies
He will do his whole thing and then he'll like do some transition into talking about skill share
Is is a big ongoing conversation about you know
The the right way or the better ways to do ads and stuff and videos that with accepting at the same time that everyone
Needs to do them to a degree. So it's it's interesting to see how how people in
uh
Integrate them the differences between everybody. This one hasn't been fun. Not that ads are supposed to be fun
Movies have you guys seen those ads recently that start with a hook immediately
So they're like if you wear glasses don't click off this you're like, whoa
What i've not seen that
Well, i've uh pulled the videos on my phone, uh, i've gone that one i've gotten one where it's like, um
If you create uh youtube content do not skip this ad and I remember being like i'll skip the fuck it
Oh, you can't tell what to do
I just get specific enough that it would tempt me aren't all glasses privileged glasses. Yes
In fact, you could refer to them as privileged goggles
Skill share is the place to go lastly skill share is insanely affordable with an annual subscription be insanely affordable
It's less than ten dollars a month
Let me check let me go to skillshare and take a look sponsoring this video and they're providing you chads with
You pay for like certain courses. Did you just say providing you chads? I think you just said that good lord
That made me recoil inside. Oh god
Start for free today
Um two free months of skillshare premium just sign up to continue
um
It's not telling me how much it is afterwards. So, uh, let me see. You say ten dollars a month or is that j
He said it was almost ten dollars a month. I said less than ten dollars a month. So it's probably nine ninety nine
You know what really chaps my ass about how he's doing this is he it honestly
Honest to god sounded like he was going to start talking about the dark knight rises and then he just cuts himself off with the shit
How about I gotta google how much does skillshare cost
Because if you go to skillshare
They just want to try to rope you in with the two free months and then they'll you'll put in your details
So it'll catch you with that recurring payment. How much does skillshare cost?
um
Let's see skillshare is available for free for premium subscription and for teams
There are three premium and team packages available with a one month free trial
The monthly package costs 15 per month while the annual plan is 8 25 per month or 99 per year billed annually
So it's 10 bucks a month basically and a lot of things do that
They like get the free one like how much does it cost past that and their only response is get the free one
All right
Movies look like Christopher Nolan. It's gonna make sure I got the chad quote. I
I'm almost in disbelief. Skillshare is the place to go
Lastly skillshare is insanely affordable with an annual subscription being less than ten dollars a month
Skillshare is sponsoring this video and they're providing you chads with two months of skillshare
Oh, I thought he said it's like providing you chads like
like
Every skill of chad chad delivery services the virgin skillshare brown table is down with the kids
Don't you know? I want to know like right if there were two you wrote that out. He said it
Why if they're like if the only two types of people were chads and virgins, right?
I wonder what like percentage demographics brown table videos would get
You can't say that jay that's me
For free that's genuinely a really awesome deal. He laughs. That means he's genuine. That's genuinely a really
So fucking fake doing this
This is why I said tarot
Listen, if you're gonna make me jilvar watches you're gonna have to send me one because my heart's gotta be in it
And this anyone it's really great and it's right here. I still have it. I still wear it
Like so he couldn't he have just done this like right after saying this video is sponsored by skillshare
Couldn't even just started with this and then just smoothly
Might give himself the illusion that rises
I think it makes it makes sense though to give people a hook on the topic
I think if I immediately get an ad when I start a video i'm gonna click off for sure
Well, this is kind of the tightrope. It's like the honesty versus because some people be like if you integrate it fully
Some audience members will be like wow, that was really well put together and someone was like wow way to slip in the ad
Like that, you know like
It's so hard to figure out exactly how to do it
I'm not too concerned with where he placed it. It's like here's what the topic
Here's my sponsor. Now. Let's just find it. Funny the chad comment. I just yeah, come on you chads
I'm signing up right now. That's right. Go to the link in the description to get two months of skillshare
How long is he gonna check?
It's genuinely an awesome deal. He said genuinely twice. It must be true. He's he's subverting our expectations
He made a video saying he's defending the dark knight rises and it's actually just an ad for skillshare
Let's see the thing when you make shorter videos
This is this isn't what I call a shorter video like 17 minutes pretty strong
But uh this much percent of it being an ad it's like yeah
Awesome deal guys. I used my own code
Okay
Finally finally fluid to movie theaters across this nation and made box office history. The batman saga took in 75.6
This is what videos do they do montages of news clips talking about the dark knight movie
And my tfa series opens with sort of yeah, and that was shit, too. I mean it's just
The performance of a fallen star reached an all-out crescendo
An all-out crescendo
An all-out crescendo an all-out gradual increase in volume
comes uh
Well, isn't a crescendo the end of the piece or whatever?
No, that would be like a denouement
Wall
Is it i've been using crescendo like there's a crescendo and then there's a day crescendo
Which is the opposite so crescendo is like it gets louder and louder and louder. Oh, yeah, right. Okay
It's like a crescendo is identified by being reached as well like the genie as well as the peak
Interesting so the crescendo was the friends we made along the way it was
Rises without talking about the dark knight first
Which is a quintessential superhero film that strives to be more than just that a superhero film
It's the difference between an ant-man 2 and a spider-man 2 one strives to be more than what it's usually labeled
The dark knight showcases an interpretation of the batman and joker an riveting crime drama
That is one of my favorite films of all time and you can personally dislike the film
But you can't refute that the movie had major cultural impact
That was a joke
I don't understand. How about instead? I think people this is I guess this is just a recurring thing, but people confuse
Delivery for humor, I guess like well if I yell it really loud with a close-up
It must be funny if I make the screen turn black and I whisper it must be funny
But you have to say something funny
People people aren't like oh he's whispering whispering's funny
The writing is probably more
Relevant to the to the to the joke than the method in which it was delivered. Maybe I don't know
there's probably times where I've thought it's pretty funny, but um
It's tough with brown table because he like he's really bad at writing
Sounds really manufactured. Well, this is the thing. He doesn't come across as real most of the time
This is what I mean about him being a tier above tonal. He's very
He's like a developed tonal like one that was taught more things about human society
They reached him earlier
I personally
I'm personally a huge fan of the theory that he is a high functioning psychopath after his captain marvel video
I mean it would it would follow he wants to kill the gays as we've discovered
Yes, he is kind of a ticking time bomb of homophobia
So don't don't I hope that no guy asks him out or else
You know, he might kill you
Sexual harassment such a massive success in changing the landscape of superhero films for a while the dark knight rises had to compete with that
Oh, I know what argument he's gonna make and i've already seen this video
but i've i've just remembered based on what he says here what the argument he's gonna make is that people only don't like it because
Of they were comparing it to the dark knight
We could have just we could have heard him say that if you just let the yeah, yeah you racist
But like yes, I mean good that you've seen it before not everyone of us have seen the video before I know I know that seeing it
But we're very proud of you. We're very good
Not everyone's a precog jay
No, I um, I realized that on the first way through this is where I realized he was making that point
Oh, okay
All right, well everyone at two minutes and 57 seconds
This is the point on jay's first watch through or he discovered what the point of this
Video would be because I still haven't figured it out yet
So I never had the chance. I never had the chance like you did to find it out to discover it
This is my first time watching through spoiler alert. How about you put in your privileged earplugs?
Well, i've got headphones on
privilege phones
Same privilege phones you gotta go out and get some dirt and cram it in your ears
like the you
I know that's the that's the people's um earplugs
Yeah dark knight. Well, so when I when I when I went to see this film
I had lowered my expectations because I knew
That wasn't going to be as like groundbreaking as the dark knight and I was also kind of figuring
Okay, it's probably also not going to be as good as batman begins because I really like batman begins
I think it's a it's a really good movie
And but I what I was expecting was it's going to be decent. It'll be passable
Surely it'll be of a quality that I will find acceptable like just the bare minimum level of quality and I will be happy
I wasn't expecting a trash fire like this. It's bad. It's a really bad film
I also resent the idea that like because there was a good one the sequel therefore is like
Overshadowed and cannot achieve as much. It's like we have so many examples that don't fall prey to this
Civil war and the winter soldier
Yeah, that too winter soldier is considered the best in the mcu by loads of people and yet civil war fucking knocks it out of the park
Diminator. Yeah, it'd be another one
Isn't shadowed by its predecessor. In fact, it typically I think most people consider too too to be a
An increase of quality, but some people don't have a huge increase of quality
I recently rewatched t1 and t2 and I think t2 is better by
A long shot t1 still really good, but that just
And then you know look at like lord the rings it's like
My favorite is uh fellowship of the ring, but um, the other two are still fucking great. Oh
I don't know
You know when I when I see the next mission impossible films
I'm not expecting them to be as good as mission impossible fallout
I'm just expecting them to be like as good as the first one or maybe the fourth one
You know, so yes spider-man 2. Yeah quality. Yeah
Wasn't overshadowed by the first one just by everyone loving it. And yeah, this this freeze frame by the way
That's this is the joker's perspective on brown table's channel. It's just like
What the fuck am I watching
Changing the landscape of superhero films for a while the dark knight rises had to compete with that
Batman had to compete with batman and to do that is near impossible as one movie had one of the greatest
Performances in a superhero film ever and so of course almost unsurprisingly the reception to the dark knight rises
It's not as good as the reception to as if that's the reason like alone
No, I wasn't expecting a performance on the same level as he fledgers. That's like a once in a lifetime type performance
It's it's so unrealistic to expect every movie to have like one of the best things ever
Just just go in expecting
Some level of quality like just you know low enough that it can pass if it's good enough, you know
It's kind of hard for me to describe exactly
But I don't go in expecting the next like every movie that I see to be citizen kane levels of quality
I'm just kind of confused here. So
His point is that because one of the movies was so good
That everybody is going to hate the next one
Or be disappointed. So yeah that it will be able to live up to and therefore be criticized
Anytime there have been two good movies in a row
This proves that point right like there's been plenty of movies that have been fantastic and the sequel comes out and
I don't i'm not following this at all
I guess I kind of get it but oh to help you understand he's desperately grasping at straws to defend this horrible movie
I think he's low-key poisoning the well, but he doesn't think he is but that's what he's doing
He's trying to set up the reason why
By saying oh people people expected that it was like first was like that's what no he didn't even talk
Oh, is he saying my expectations were subverted before you can even approach the conversation of
Before you can even approach the pros and cons he's saying the whole conversation is tilted by the fact that the dark knight exists
Which is false
But if you said everybody had processed that it's like everybody went into that movie we knew that
Was anybody really expecting like another
Joker caliber villain or this would be even better than I wasn't I was just hoping for a good movie
Yeah, I was like, I don't know man. Just get over the finish line, but it doesn't apply to me
That's the thing. It's like I came in with lowered expectations. I gave the movie a chance
I was biased in favor of like wanting to love this movie because I loved batman begins and the dark knight so
Fucking much and I wish I wish that I could either be stupid enough to like the movie that we got
Or if we got a better movie than this
But we didn't and I have to just accept that that why I haven't accepted that but victory
Defeated you
Get off if the dark knight rises did not come after the dark knight
I feel like viewers would treat the film differently, but yeah, maybe maybe if it was released today
It would have been treated differently
I think that like it was being released in two years
I think I think people look at this with the good will that the night built up
Yeah, that's I think I feel like we discussed that at one point
But the idea that I can throw the reverse argument at this film
I can say that people didn't hate it enough because they were they were their rose colored tinted glasses over thanks to the dark knight
right
So
Yeah, you could say that whatever
You know this film was elevated by people who liked the trilogy or the franchise or whatever else
So it's really weird to like try and definitively prove the opposite
Well, we're going to have to find like a good time for us to stop the video and just start talking about why this film is bad rather than
Speaking abstracts about it
Well
Do we have to we're only responding to his video so he's going to make assertions we can counter
um
That's true. Okay. I even call the market. It's just assertions
Just because the film isn't as good as the dark knight doesn't mean we should brush it aside as an inferior sequel
What does that mean to you bro? I don't know
No, that's such a weirdly worded thing because if it's inferior then if it wasn't as good then it will be inferior
By definition inferior doesn't mean it's inferior
Rag stop brushing it aside. Didn't you hear what does he even mean by that? It's such pretty language
I think that he's he's trying to set up the idea that if you think it's worse then you're just
Ignoring it or rushing it aside or giving it disdain
Just because it isn't as good as the previous movie doesn't mean that's an inferior sequel
What? No, is that really what he said? I think what he's trying to say is viewers
Okay, let them say it again would treat the film differently
But just because the film isn't as good as the dark knight doesn't mean we should brush it aside as an inferior sequel
Okay
Second just because it's an inferior sequel does not mean it's an inferior
I wasn't listening properly and I interpreted in the shower. It's literally just said it. He admitted that it's an inferior sequel
How do you write that in the screen? Did you write that sentence?
He wrote that he looked at it
Trilogy he went he was typing
Guys just because it's worse than the previous movie doesn't mean it's an inferior sequel
I mean like okay
So if I were to try to steel man him a bit
I would say just because it's not as good as the dark knight doesn't mean that it's a bad movie
Oh, that's not yeah, that's not what he said
I like how you said steel man. You just recreate his argument
From the ground up. It's like yeah, if you he didn't even make an argument
He just he said if x is x then x is y you're like, okay
Well, the dark knight was a crime drama
The dark knight rises is essentially a war movie with some post-apocalyptic undertones
Batman is also not in the movie as much as one would expect as most of the time he is struggling to return to the hero
He once was the movies in year three. Yeah, it repeats that
Like it does that stupid shit where he's not batman and then he has to become batman again twice and it drags down the pacing significantly
It's so horrible doing this eight year long time time jump where you reveal that he stopped being batman
as soon as the dark knight ended and then he has to
get this leg brace to fix the
lack of cartilage in his legs and shit and
then he's batman for like 10 minutes and then he gets his back broken and then he's
Uh spending an entire third of a film in this
Prison in the middle of Uzbekistan, which makes no sense
That has like no guards that has been like watching watching the people above like the food from
Exactly. There's no guards. There's no role of that person made no sense to me
I was like you guys just you guys just live in a hole like is it a commune?
There's a gigantic goddamn rope at the very top that he can just throw down
Did somebody just throw hot dogs down the hole every once in a while to keep you alive?
Like what's going on?
And and they try going like there is no such thing as uh,
As true despair without hope but like no despair literally means there is no hope
There is no way that you can
Oh my god, this movie is so fucking not despair without hope like no, there's literally only despair with
That's the opposite of what that means
Yeah, no, it's such a bullshit excuse to have bane act like a james bond villain who
Acts in such a way that he allows the the hero to escape
He gives the hero a way to escape instead of just fucking killing him on the spot
I hate this movie. Um, I want to highlight as well these arbitrary fucking
uh differences he's highlighting as if
So if someone was like, oh I preferred infinity wall to end game and I go you can't compare
Infinity wall to end game like that one is about a villain winning
The other one is about the villain losing one is about a team. That's fragmented trying to defeat
Unfailing the other one is a team that's united and you're like what?
Yeah, these are things that happen in the film
different
One's a time travel thriller. The other one didn't even have time travel infinity war is a post-apocalyptic crime drama with romantic overtones
Actually, they were undertones
Also, how does bane get in and out there were just tones doesn't matter how he does it
How's this his plan? I just like the idea that you know, they're all eaten. Let's just say potatoes
So it's like where'd you get those from? There's literally just a door that leads to an outside farm
It's like it's like how do you think we survive here, but you could only go out through the top bit
There's otherwise it's cheating. He's like there's a boba tea place right over here, man
Like rags there's a fucking honor system and you go to walk out of the farm they go. Hey
Hey
You're not supposed to do that
Like a little piece of string that keeps the the fence together he
Unstrings it they're like no
I love the they go. Did you learn a lesson about despair yet? You have to get back in there
How did you fix your back by doing push-ups?
No, no, you you fix the back by punching the back i'm the back man
And what is good that epic which takes its time it builds up momentum little by little showing glimpses of what the
Antagonist and his cohorts are planning by separating these stories until they all eventually coincide when gotham falls under terrorist attack
But at its core, it's a character study. It's about a broken man who welcomes death because he has nothing
All of this is a need of saying that you can't compare them
Because they're very different films or it's unfair to you. I don't really know
okay, so batman v superman don of justice has this theme about how
Becoming a murderous vigilante is bad
And the way that it executes that is have batman realize that superman's mother has the same name as his as his own
That makes sense. That's one hell of a theme by the way
It's a fucking horrible execution
But hey the theme is there and therefore batman v superman is good now the theme of being a murderous vigilante is bad
Do you do you disagree theo?
Uh
This one's for all you murder murderers vigilantes out there
Hope this message sinks in stop being a murderous vigilante all you people out there who are murderers vigilantes who watch this movie
I have a question. Why are there like
Why has no one found that that prison in the middle of Uzbekistan and done like a news story about it
Wouldn't that be a thing at some point because it's been around for a while anymore
like like
National geographic or discovery like anyone wouldn't anyone want to cover that weird weird-ass prison
That's been what color are the people in the prison?
Or what about what about like any activists that are in that city?
That's close to the like it's it's in some proximity to the prison
like you see it when bruce gets out of the pit like when they
There's no one in that city that would want to throw the rope down because they would find that to be a massive injustice like it's
Or your dad's in there they set out to do so then whenever wherever bane maybe he just says no
And then they stop this um, there's a dark knight not counting as a character study as well
I hate all of again. It's back to the buzzwords. He just
Let it off a ship things about this little part. Wow incredible. Yeah, so many words
Here's just kind of saying stuff. Yeah, it doesn't mean anything at all. It's also a character study
Right thriller drama theme. It's a crime thriller war movie where the characters learn to love each other
Okay
Spider-man 3 is is character study about how revenge is bad
But it is though good the film blends everything no one's good at from characters to grand
Why do you use an inception clip there where he's talking about an inception?
The fucking hallway scene
Yeah, I mean it looks it looks like because the hallway because the hallway was twisting
Why is he talking about like why is he even cycling clip when he's talking about batman?
Why he said it combines everything that no one is good at and then he oh, okay. The thing is
Me and alex is consistent criticism about no one is he's really bad with characters
uh
I I'm very critical of no one in general
Um, I don't think he can't do any characters
But you'll find a through line with a lot of his films is his character's a very fucking bland
Okay, i'd go to duncirk for that one. There's a lot of examples
Um, but there is some some shine
Lose the film blends everything no one's good at from characters to grand set pieces
To a plot with a bit of a twist and whether or not a plot with a bit of a twist
That's how he describes prestige. Cool. Like something you'd get in a bar. No one is good
That's like a plot with a bit of a twist
on the rocks
Man, all right. He executed this
To you i'm just here to inform you that the movie is a lot better than what everyone
Hang on whether we execute the smoothly is up to you, but the movie is good. So
You can't deny that the movie is good even if it's up to you to decide
All of the stuff that he's saying he's he's arguing is that it did things. Well, i'll play that again for anybody who missed it. Uh
It is kind of funny. He executed this smoothly is up to you
I'm just here to inform you that the movie is a lot better than what everyone's been saying
So whether or not it smooths up to you, but it's better than everyone's been saying
So like he's just spent ages saying what it did and then whether it executed it well or not. Yeah, who cares?
You know, my intros are long. They're not a fourth of my video
Can I have some analysis in my video? It's coming. It's coming. Here we go. Guys excited. I don't believe you
I'm coming. You don't owe these people anymore. You've given them everything
Not everything i'm deji ridley. Look at me. Yeah, you think he couldn't get me out of his nose in that suit
That's the thing about bales batman i've always found him amusing in certain ways
I tolerated the bail voice right up until who's the twitter?
I was done with it before that
Was actually the point where I am like legit just doubled over in my seat in the theater. I'm like, I I give the fuck up
This is a horrible movie already. And then we get to this. I will
I'll concede the best example of his tismy voice is what he says. Uh, you know what? I want to give it to an ordinary
He constantly looks like he needs to sneeze
He looks so almost dazed like
Is is this after he's been stabbed I can't remember
The film bruce wayne hasn't been batman for eight years, but not just that he hasn't even left his house
Which is something that I never even understood. I was like he he became a recluse for eight years. Why?
So
So I watched the movie last night and um
They established that harvey dent day is the day that harvey dent died
Which is odd, but whatever. Um, and that batman
Disappeared like the very last time that batman was seen was on that night eight years ago
Which means that he wasn't around fighting the mob in any of the time that it must have taken to
Form and pass the harvey dent act which they never
Elaborate on they never explain
What is in the bill that helps them basically get rid of the mob? It's just this magic
thing that they don't have to explain that gets rid of all the organized crime because that's how the real world works that's how a
Realists a bill makes the crime go away neat. That's how it's it's how a grounded model like the Nolan movie movies work
um, and so
Yeah, like doing this weird eight year time jump
Has never sat right with me just because you're having to
Then spend all this time setting up like how things are right now like um
things have changed so radically that it's going to take more time than if it were just like a year or two since the
previous film and
Uh, then the whole like motivation that they used to explain why he's doing this because he lost rachel
It doesn't make any sense. He became batman because he lost his parents
Why is he giving up because of losing rachel?
It doesn't make any sense to me
I don't know man fucking legs thing too
Okay, your legs have lost their cartilage now have these things that just undo that yes
We are going to decartan leech your legs batman
Yeah, and and they're also going to
They'll also allow him to keep his his leg braces in the prison. They're not going to take those away
Yeah, I know and dude there's so much about
It's just it's glaring horrible writing to me
Like would he be imagine being in the fucking room?
You're like, oh well because he's a recluse
He obviously would have bad legs and you're like why can't we just say that he was working out in the place?
Like no, he has bad legs. He's like, okay fine. He has bad legs next thing he gets him fixed
Why don't we just like why don't we just have him have bad legs? Like I don't know
Why why he had a four?
It's a theme
Maybe a lot of writers don't actually learn to walk again
in the movie
I don't know man. Yeah, this movie was a mess
Shutting me to bruce wayne has isolated himself from thanks for showing us the script by the way
What was the what was the point of that? Sorry because this is totally he's totally ripping off. Yeah
He's ripping off the screenplay dude
Let everyone's from the screenplay
Lessons from the screenplay that's the channel he's ripping him off because that's the way that he does it
He lifts up the screen then he puts the script below it. Oh, he's not really referencing the screen. What?
He's just putting it on screen for no reason
I was about to say if we can get what the script says if we can watch it again
What was the point of him putting it up?
I want to see if he just did that just to be like hey, look what I could do
This scene wasn't ad lib to mauler. It's important that you know
The maids talking about his fucked up legs bruce wayne hasn't been batman for eight years
But not just that he hasn't even left his house in eight years
He did it twice
So he said he hasn't left and then he has the script
Playing at the same time as the scene saying he never leaves the east wing. Thank you for that
Why?
That was so unnecessary if that was the point
Shutting me bruce wayne has isolated himself from the world the world that has forgotten him
And has demonized the hero he once was due to a lie to aid the city in its fight against
Yeah, so just to confirm there was no fucking point in doing that
I'll share a move
By the way, I have a guy. I have a guy called, uh real rock obama 61 and he mentions that batman
Sorry that bruce jumps out a window right after being told he has no cartilage in his knees
The natural thing to do why even bother that's the point why bother just have it so that he still has his cartilage you idiots
You just create a problem for yourself. Just give people cartilage
You can have it one way or the other don't just engineer a solution to a problem you created
Imagine they'd like they took the like braces off him and then in the hole
The day that he gets like the courage or hope or whatever to do whatever he finds them like other ones
He's like cartilage leg things. Yes
Why did you have these in the
Special machine it rebuilds the car with harvey dense becoming a martyr and surprisingly it's working
But a lie can only stay hidden for so long and bruce knows this gory knows this
A lie can only stay hidden for so long
How do you know if you don't if you don't how do you tell the difference between a lie that never existed and one that?
You haven't discovered yet. I was about to say how would how is it provable?
There's probably a whole bunch of lies that are running right now that no one knows the truth about
Don't trust the gettling
I also love that they've still got the uh, the smashed in bat signal on the rooftop of gotham pd. I didn't they didn't move it out
Yeah
I've noticed that last time like wait, what why like, you know, arty was getting this thing up here
Fucking gordon's like our sentimental, please don't take it
No, no mauler. It's about the theme of how gordon can't move on
That's a theme
Batman can't actually represent
Catches up to both of them in the form of bane fully knowing exactly what's been going on in gotham
We pick fully knowing exactly what's going on
overdunded
Fully knowing big words big words
actually know
Look up bruce wayne eight years after the events of the dark night
The reason for that that passage of time is
We wanted to really look at the consequences of the actions that
He and commissioner gordon took at the end of the dark night and for the their sacrifice to have meaning
It has to have been successful. And so at least superficially we're dealing with a gotham
That doesn't need batman anymore on the surface of things looks much better
And so you've got a bruce wayne who has locked himself away in self-imposed isolation in a wing of wayne manner
much in the manner of wing of wayne man las vegas period and
really our story picks up with
The idea of this is a guy who's as alfred said hung up his cape and his cowl, but he hasn't moved on
He sort of started to understand why he needed this
Yeah, it's great. It's pretty clear
This is what happens I was gonna say he's so proud of this waveform effect, I know oh definitely yeah
I just find the music because it's like jerking off right now. Like oh my god
Skillshare gave me these tools
I like I watched the movie. Yeah, it begins with like the amount of time has passed and the city is essentially saved
It's clean and and well
Operating and he's recused himself from society. He's locked himself in his manners. Like yep
That's probably the first 10 minutes or whatever. It's like, I don't know why you're getting the
The director to confirm this like yeah, he's repeating what he just said, but he's like, but now the director's saying it
This is definitely true. We did in fact watch the film
The director had some kind of input in the film the director was involved in some way. I'm not sure how when we start the movie
uh phase of his life bruce is told by alfred from the very beginning of the so
Um batman begins has this very simple bat cave, right?
And then in the dark night, they're using this temporary underground little bunker
As a space of operations while waymanner is being rebuilt then the dark night ends in
Bruce Wayne stops being batman that night and then dark
Dark night rises begins and then we've got this
upgraded bat cave that's been like redesigned and
renovated
some time
Between the dark night and the dark night rises when he stopped being batman
Dude, he's been a recluse for eight years
He needs a place to play. I was gonna say most old rich people need a bat cave, you know
It's irrelevant of being batman. You need your caves bad. Come on
This fucking bothered me in the theater I was like wait, what why did they
Improve on the bat cave while he stopped being batman. This makes no sense. It's probably okay
Jim jones has the time I guess he hung up his cartilage like
Won't be needing this anymore
I face his life bruce is told by alfred from the very beginning of the film that he's essentially suicidal
Even though bruce opposes that fact having lost rachel the woman
He loved someone he wanted to spend the rest of his life with in the last film
He acts like someone who has no reason to live
And yeah
So then alfred's way of fixing that is to tell him that he burned this letter that rachel had
Written for him and saying that she was going to choose harvey instead of him anyways. Yeah, which isn't helping
Which yeah also is like, okay
So first of all, this is out of character for alfred a second of all
This is kind of the same thing like same problem as yoda in the last jedi
It's like why the fuck didn't you tell him this earlier you you've seen that bruce wing can't move on from rachel
Why aren't you telling him about this? No, it took eight years for him to be sure
If this is your method of of getting him to move on from rachel tell him earlier than eight years
Like I fucking hell
Look, I kind of want to I just want to listen to that part gang
So I had an issue but I think I may have heard something wrong
Bruce is told by alfred from the very beginning of the film that he's essentially suicidal even though bruce opposes that fact
Having lost rachel the woman he loved someone
He wanted to spend the rest of his life with in the last film
He acts like someone who has no reason to live in the film
We're told that crime is at an all-time low and that means batman isn't even needed bruce only because why is there a blurry square?
This is the skillshare blurry square technique
What the fuck is that doing there lecture four part six?
But why bro is that honestly because he said batman is no longer needed. I think that's it. Jesus christ
Visual i'm super confused. Look videos are a visual medium. He's trying to add visual metaphors to
Some like this stupid don't do brown table is like the the pitch on metaphors got metaphors
Brown table is the peak film student. He's like he's the the film student. He's like
Like I get the point you're making like batman's looking sad thinking about being batman
You don't have to literally cover up his face like he's not even batman. He can't even see his face
So he's definitely not batman now. Just use a clip of
uh
Like the bat suit like coming out of the ground or something and reverse that like he's putting oh you
Have you ever been to skillshare?
And you've never been to film school if you use skillshare, you don't understand why you did this
Is a skillshare know about this technique?
You can't just not
You're right. I'm the skillsharer
Yeah, that'll be sheep. We'll see that
I can't believe that dude. Why get skillshare when you can just pick up techniques here
In the film we're told crime is at an all-time low and that means batman isn't even needed
Bruce only becomes batman again
Why did you do that?
Doing so out of duty out of responsibility. He said duty he essentially leaves his house because john. Oh, no
He leaves his house
He becomes batman again because a cop tells him hey
I know what it's like to be an angry orphan who has to hide his anger and so I
I read I read your face and I read your mind
Did he really remove the square after he talks to robin? Oh my god
I get it, dude. You're beating me over the head right now
I know he's batman again. He's batman not to mention for the way. It's just like
The fact that he decided eight years of his life. He spent his house
One random dude tells him like yeah, I know man. This sucks. Don't do it
He's like, you know what? I gotta do lease on life. So fuck off. Thanks. Thanks. Yoda
No, i'm always gonna call bullshit on this
john blake character just knowing that he's batman because he visited he visited his little orphanage one day
And he looked at his face was like, oh, yeah, he he's hiding his anger. That means that he's batman. Yep
Fuck it was just one plus one is two or in brown table's case one plus one is five that sort of thing
Doing so out of duty out of responsibility
He essentially leaves his house because john blake tells him that funds are not being sent over to a boy's home
He leaves not necessarily because he wants to and when he is batman for the first half of the film
He is on a mission to defeat bane fully understanding that doing so without proper preparation will cost him his life
Being batman is all bruce has left
I did find someone. Well, that's not i'd say that's the fucking writer's fault that bruce is a worthless fucking character because he's got
Nothing other than batbags. We don't know anything about him outside if he likes
The girl who's dead
He also likes alfred
Like what else is there to bruce? This is part of my problem with the noland trilogy of batman films is that bruce wayne
Isn't much of a character. Uh
You get you get you get a bunch of things here and there but most people attribute the best parts of whatever he does
to batman
Rather than bruce wayne. I'm just like, okay
Like the idea that it's like you see all he has left is batman. It's like so what was there that was uh
Was bruce and not batman in the first place?
Like is it batman begins is all we have to cite for that. I don't know
Yeah, we never see bruce wayne. Really. Well when we do he's an asshole because it's like a it's like a facade, right?
And it's like, okay, so he's not really a character then so it is only batman question mark
Yeah, what are the moments where he's the real bruce wayne? It's like when he's in like the very beginning of batman begins
I mean is the film trying to not have that separation in some manner, I guess
But they uh, I don't know
I mean, what is it when rachel dies is that supposed to be there's definitely no more bruce wayne. Was that the theme?
It's just batman now i'd have to rewatch all three that really though for sure, but I just remember feeling like
bruce isn't
Especially in the third one. It feels like they don't even know what bruce's character really is beyond batman and maybe that's the point
I don't know
Yeah, well, it's it's it does feel like bruce wayne is defined by yeah
He really likes this chick and now she's dead like that's all bruce wayne. It was an old butler
I like that
Butler and a girlfriend movie begins. He's like and now i'm not gonna be batman anymore then he goes
Yeah, i'm gonna be batman again, and then he gets uh his back broken
Oh, no, i'm not that anymore and then he's trained like I must become batman again
I am batman again, and then he faces that like I don't want to be batman anymore. Like what the fuck
Sometimes it's hard to make that decision. Okay
Have you ever decided brother or not to be batman? Yeah
I mean i've been told that you should always be yourself unless you can be batman in which case you you just be batman
You know, what about man bat?
But you're a bad adaptation of man bat. It's pronounced batman. No man bat is an actual character in the dc. I know that i've seen
The batman 2004 an image of tv show in which he appears
I thought it was such a joke what I first heard of it. It was like mad bat. What?
It's such a joke character. It's like so it's like fucking
Who asked to be the perfect boy on the batman?
Two guys working at dc were like, you know, it'd be funny
Okay
Someone printed it wrong one day
And they were like fuck's already printed the words. We're going to get some like images in now
It's just create some kind of fucking person who's a bat. I don't know
I've just said they haven't taken it farther and been like here's woman cat, you know
I'd watch all them some guys like oh with joker we could be could go
Someone someone someone in the chat just said long man bat
long man bat
What makes a good bat though?
It's all about bruce's journey towards discovering the value don't show the fight scenes the fight choreographer is really bad in this movie
Yeah, if you like if you go back there, you'll notice that catwoman lightly kicks some dude in the face
He does this like super show off like cartwheel
the fucking
Show. Oh, yeah, I totally got kicked super hard here. This is the fights in these movies. Good
I don't remember nolan filming a good like fight scene. Um
I would say that I tried rewatching the dark night again and the scene where like batman's in the uh car park or whatever
It's just like abysmal
Yeah again, i'd have to watch them all again
It's all about bruce's journey towards
Sorry about the action. Um, so I would say like the fights in
Batman begins in the dark night are definitely worst shot
But I think that there's like for me at least there was enough that I could sort of make out what was going on
And it didn't have any obvious choreography fails like what we have in the dark night
Rises where the action is shot much more clearly, but it's choreographed very poorly
I just don't know like a lot of really like flat angles and being like it's just looked visually
Oh, it's it's not it's not great, but I wouldn't say it's horrible
Fair enough
It's discovering the value of life by fearing death
That's what the movie is all about and it's incredibly intimate character building moments are usually quiet and thought provoking
There aren't quiet and thought provoking as opposed to loud and thought oppressing
All my favorite character building moments are really loud
I don't think it's a strange way to frame it for me. Uh, yeah the uh
I don't know describing. It's an intimate theme of of discovering the value of life through fearing
Death, I think is what he said is like
Can you stop with the with the meaningful?
Describe in like actual terms of strong writing setup and payoff and all these things that happen in the film instead of just going
The film means this. Okay, done. It's so pretty
So so pretty he has a quiet character moment. Okay, he has to find death to love life
He has to defeat death to to kiss life on the lips. Cool. Thanks. Now show me where this happened, please
Really comedic punch lines in the film everything is delivered with nuance and maximum impact
So the viewer confronts the emotional struggle the characters are dealing with maximum impact. Jesus christ. That was a lot of words
Like it was take that sentence in as it
Incredibly intimate character building moments are usually quiet and thought provoking
There aren't really comedic punch lines in the film
Everything is delivered with nuance and maximum impact
So the viewer confronts the emotional struggle the characters are dealing with head on
Oh
Fucking hell, man. So it's a long sentence and I guess
He's just saying that everything is done
Really well the max delivery. Yeah, it's nailed to the max. I just wish we had some examples instead of you
Just telling me this is how it is
Did they kill him?
I'm not sure
Batman is a simp. Yeah, that was one example. So deep. I hope he puts the script back on the screen
I think that would help
Does the aspect ratio change in this film or is it just in this video because it does yeah, okay
Bruce Wayne will he die because of batman if he chose to accept death
He would become a self-sacrificing character like bane and would die for his cause
That's why bane and his league of shadows are technically talia. Don't tell me bane died for his cause. He was shot by a bike shotgun
Oh, okay. Bullshit. No, no, no. I think what he's referring to is that bane was willing to get nuked along with gotham
Fine, but like it's just humiliated to actually think about how bane actually dies. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I
How did he die? I don't remember it fucking he's nearly like defeated by batman because he's knocked out all the painkillers in his face
And then talia puts them all back in and then he's doing a little bit of a monologue before he's about to execute batman
The fucking catwoman bursts in with the bat bike and shoots him with it
And he falls into like he just got shot into the distance and he's gone forever
And it's like very humiliating like he slides across the floor comically and then she's like this thing about you not liking guns
I don't I don't agree with it or something like it's like there's a fucking one-liner
That's cornea shit that said right after bane is killed. I don't think anybody was happy with it
Such a fucking lame death
Yeah, people keep on saying that bane saved the movie. He really didn't they they fucked bane up so hard
I liked him in the movie. I fucking hated the way they killed him. I liked him way more on talia
yeah, having having a whole movie that's like building up how he's this this mastermind and everyone of his men like respect him and
everything like
Like the first scene sets up that these men are still well to him that like one of them is willing to die in that plane crash
To help with the little retarded cover-up that they want to do with uh kidnapping. Dr.
Popple right and then you reveal five minutes before the movie ends
No, no. Talia was was behind the whole time lol and then she dies like immediately afterwards and phones it in with her death
Oh, it's so bad
charismatic villains
like this like this this
Movie really does not hold up on repeat viewings, especially with bane
didn't hold up on the first viewing
Well, I mean like after you reveal that bane wasn't the real mastermind the whole time though. It really fucking
Just oh, it's a slog
My league of shadows are the perfect antagonist to batman in this film
While joker in the dark knight was the opposite of batman bane is almost the same as batman
Completely blinded by a belief a crusade that they believe to be morally righteous
One yeah, it makes no sense because the whole fucking point of razzle ghoul's team
It's like cleanser city by example and gotham is like clean
It's like we gotta we gotta carry on with lee amnesen's goal
It's like why gotham is like the cleanest city in the entire world choose a different one you fucking idiots
That frustrates me to no end they're like, oh we gotta take the cause to its limits
It's like that doesn't what are you doing? What are you talking about?
Oh
That means you kill batman that doesn't mean you nuke at the city
They're supposed to be altruistic
They're supposed to be trying to get to a point where they've erased bad from the world or at least, you know
Stein need it. Why go after gotham? That's like the stupidest place to target in this universe
Yeah, race out ghoul's plan and batman begins at least makes sense or his motive rather
It makes sense because gotham is, you know, obviously corrupt and shit and you see dark knight rises and it's it's clean now
It's free of organized crime and crime is at an all-time low and yet
They want to still nuke the city
I hate it
They're willing to die for oh god
Oh
And that's what separates batman from bane ultimately will bruce wayne die for his city as well not just batman
When it is done
Oh my fuck that script is that why do you need this script?
This is very helpful to understanding the themes
citizen
Then you know, he showed the words on screen there. We don't talk about bane. What was the point of that?
You know, but I didn't know that in the script the word then is bold. Oh shit
So that adds a lot because also in italics
Oh when he said it I wouldn't have gotten that impression
What would you know that's the original script or maybe just brown table wrote that to make the video look better?
Yeah, I don't know but he had like scene headings. I'm really hoping he didn't like write his own batman script
Let's see if it's available let's see if i'm sure you can definitely get the scripts
Well, I don't know if you can get the original screenplays. That's probably tougher to find
You definitely get scripts for movies though. People make them
Enough if there's a villain that should get talked about more it's this guy
Incredibly imposing with a creepy mask and a weird-ass voice that you can't even understand. Oh, so it's great
Why the fuck was you I can't I can't understand the villain unless I have subtitles on oh
That's one of the things I love about trilogies is finding out if you'll be able to understand the villain's voice
Yeah, I love that. I love that
I love that interpretation what bain was saying when I saw this film in the theater. I love it
I find bain's so entertaining in this film. I have to say yeah, I love bain. Uh, he is
He's a no-fire
Should get talked about more it's this guy
Incredibly imposing with a creepy mask and a weird-ass voice that you can't even understand unless you have subtitles on bain feels like a
force of nature
I have a question. Why doesn't bain actually try to do anything about that?
Prison in Uzbekistan with the the hole, you know that that pit
Like you think that he would yeah
Like people get thrown down there because they cross a warlord
That was the explanation for what happened to to rej al ghul's wife
And i'm saying reish because that's the actual pronunciation razz al ghul is the wrong pronunciation
I don't care. Maybe have an only movie is pronounced a bit whatever. Well, i was gonna say I go by the movies
Okay, fine. I'll go with razz. Yeah, like they they explain that razz. I caved on that one pretty quick
I say razz
Okay, i'll say very well we shall do things i'm going to i'm doing it just for the sake of consistency here
No, that's a lot of time. So, you know
Well, yeah, well, how much time have we wasted talking about that? So
Yeah, you're the one who brought it up
No, someone in the chat, uh pointed that out and was confused they're wrong people who point this out are wrong
It's reish al ghul in possibly the comics and like game interpretations, but when you have the characters
Well, this is this is the thing shut up
In the movies all the characters refer to him as raz
So it would be wrong to call him reish in the movies because he fucking doesn't call himself that pronunciation is subjective
Okay, fine. I'll go pronunciation is subjective
Uh, wait, so just call him tim. So razz al ghul basically
There are some
Racial and my cousin tim al ghul
So so we show him it to two
He impregnates this warlord's daughter and he gets sentenced to the pit
So this is obviously like not an official prison system in this country. Why is bane okay with this?
If he's supposed to be all about, you know cleansing corruption
Why is he okay with the pit still being a thing?
Is there some kind of weird shit where he's like the pit proves men to be better?
Blah, blah, blah. I don't know
Does he say anything like that? Like he respects the pit because it creates
He's okay with the pit because because it represents true despair
Probably he just had fun there like
I got out of the pit
We still haven't established everything about the pit
It could be cool and just like bruce wayne doesn't know about all the cool parts
Yeah, he just didn't visit any of like the actual like opening. There's a little like sliding doors and a receptionist
There's a video arcade on like floor 2f
Also, I just want to highlight more of a metaphorical pit dan in chat said I too cannot understand nature without subtitles
He's a force of nature
He's a joker supposed to be the force of nature no
Maybe there's every single scene he's in. He doesn't even have to do anything. He just has to stand there
What do you mean he doesn't have to do anything?
Fucking does a lot of shit in his scenes. This is the scene where he beats the shit out of batman
Okay
I like this game more. Yeah, I was gonna say
Okay
This is what the people wanted which is good because it beat this incredibly low par
Yes
Well, I think one of the most interesting things about batman
Please wane and batman is you're looking at a guy who?
Particularly as christian bales portrayed it. I find it a very moving struggle
It's a guy who has suffered this terrible trauma as a child. Do you think this might be a biased opinion?
No
I
Actually think the way it comes to head because there's nothing else
Yeah, no this I honestly feel like this is kind of fillery. Uh, the last one was almost a minute one, right?
Think of all of the things that exist and all the things that you could see or put up on the screen
Or a picture or all kinds of stuff. This looks sexy rags. Look at the lines. They match the way he speaks
Oh, I look at this and i'm like literally in like five years
We're gonna be like remember that trend where everybody's putting stupid audio waveforms on the screen thought it looked cool
I do kind of think it looks good though
Yeah, it looks good. But it's like I call it. It's cruise control for like looking good, which is not to say it doesn't look good
I think it does. I want to make fun of it and the second point i'm like
But I could I know I want to put with a gudelb that just doesn't match for the person's sake
But put this one in gudelb
Or just have two or three or something just splatter all over the screen at random
Like the second one comes in from the right and goes to the left
Why it just floats around?
I think it's just funny in this context because we know that brown table is a pretentious prick
Yeah, that's what we do with it, too
Like this is coming from someone we trust that makes it funnier. I think filler is the most accurate accusation because
Where's the analysis bro?
Where is it? He's being concise. You don't have analysis when you concise
Is he going to like spend any of the next eight minutes defending?
Why all our little issues with the film's writing are not even little issues. They're humongous issues
What like why they don't matter like is he going to?
No, please. Why would he do that? Is the analysis in the wreckage brother?
trilogies
trilogies
Trilogemon guy who has suffered this terrible trauma as a child and he's filled with
Negative things he's filled with anger and rage a desire for revenge
But he has hang on hang on hang on hang on anger and rage and a desire for revenge
uh
Arguing a revenge or visit for people who killed his parents
Are those all the same thing kind of anger rage and a desire for revenge?
I suppose it's redundant to say anger and rage rage kind of outclasses anger
Yeah, so so the point of this video is he wants us to like them
He's supposed to be giving us reasons why we should like the movie, right? Yes
But all he's given us is like here's what the movie's about and here are the themes exist within the movie
The issue is that he's not telling us why
What is on the screen is good
Yeah, so what happens is we criticize him for saying all these he's just belitting themes
He's not giving us any references and what happens is people think we hate themes. We don't like themes
It's like no, no, we just like substance like just saying this is what the film is about is not enough
Well, like he hasn't told me like here's why this theme is so expertly conveyed. It's just like yeah
But this theme is in here. He literally said the opposite. He said whether or not it's well executed. That's up to you
Thanks, man, yeah
like tell me like oh this shot is like, you know really conveys this theme or like
I'm getting none of that
As far as I can tell is has he made any points at all yet? I think he thinks he has
Okay
Stating themes, but he hasn't like pointed to anything in particular again anything specific. I don't know
Moving struggle to try and do something positive with that to try and make something good from that
So anytime you can put him up against a threat
I think it's so much more interesting if the threat is not just to the safety and prosperity of the people of gotham
But also a threat to his own philosophy his own way of life
Something that gets under his skin and in some way represents a path
He could have taken at a certain point in the I guess that's supporting the idea that bane is batman taken to the nth degree
like following a
Ideology to its to its end point. I I guess that's what the point of that was to support that
Okay
I don't know what he was making in that time
Yeah, I I feel like he's made that point already, but
You could have spent you know
The film you looked at pieces of dialogue that supported all the events of the film that kind of support instead of just being like chris
For no one said what I said, too
All right sounds like that's where you got it from to be honest
Movie john daggett played by ben menthelson has no control over the plot and it's bane that's been using daggett
There's no it was me all along moment. Yes, there is it's with the fucking tally a ghoul person
Like it's her that's controlling bane this whole time
Why did you say that it's not that wonder if he's gonna get to that has no control over the plot and it's bane
That's been using daggett. There's no it was me all along moment
All bane does is essentially invade daggett's space and caress his face almost as if consoling a child
While at the same time preparing him for the inevitable outcome
And that makes the movie good I guess
Okay, I don't get it. It's good because I don't get how this
I don't get the how this counterbalances counterbalances against anything that people are talking about when they're criticizing this film
It just feels like he's explaining the plot of the movie like he is that's what his spider-man 3 video was
He's like it's actually about revenge
The characters talking about revenge is like it's so very good because of that i'm watching i'm watching this
I've already covered this with the whole thing with bvs bvs has a theme about
batman becoming like like, you know more murderous and shit and how that's bad because you know, someone might have a mom named martha and
It's just it just illustrates the point that themes don't matter that much
Like it's really about the execution of the theme
Everything is a theme or like hopefully so like just being like oh, but here's a theme
Okay, but you're just explaining what the plot of the movie is at this point like
Yeah, what is so brilliant about
Him stroking you're telling me they stroking the guy's cheek. Okay. Why is that brilliant? Why?
Why is there no big aha moment?
Why would it be good or bad if there was one of the highlight as well?
Have you noticed that I thought this is gonna stop but it didn't he's like applied a grain filter to all clips
Yeah, it's annoying. Oh, really? That's art. I just put the text over it as well
Yeah, like it's just he's just made it less like the image has less clarity and I know that he did it because it's like
Well, I've just filled people do it. You put a filter on
Roundtable you're like, oh that makes it good
Brown table's the exact results of what I don't want to happen with film analysis where you just have a bunch of fucking
Superficial nonsense in terms of technical design for your video and then you just talk about themes
You never explain why the theme is good why it was a well executed how it connects to anything else
You're just like it's the
Like is it? Yes
Okay concise
Tactics to really draw you in man, do you think you learned to do the grain on skillshare? I believe he did
Skill from skillshare. Well, you did say that he said make what if you make your video look like it was filmed by Christopher Nolan or whatever
Maybe this is a Christopher Nolan thing. This footage was filmed by Christopher
Film creepers on nessie's double Christopher Nolan now
The dark knight rises has a theme of being being horribly written
Yes
So you can draw that out of it
To truly understand how absolutely terrifying this character is the film starts by introducing him and his resources
Similar to the joker in the dark knight
Okay, tell me why any of this is good. Just tell me all right
He keeps like so having chapter headings and shit and i'm like we've gone through like what three or four chapters
I'm like, he's a brand each of those up with a point
Yeah, I know. It doesn't it doesn't feel that way at all. But uh, like like he's just rambling. Um
So the bane's intimidating because we get to know his resources from the get-go
Or like that he's terrifying. I was like, uh, you can have someone like the first order who have insane resources on the pitiful
I guess i'm sure it's about execution, right because I think the bane is intimidating in this movie to a degree
But I wouldn't explain it the way he's doing it
But he's already said the execution wasn't good. Was it bad?
also, if you guys got the same frame frame as me right now with uh,
Like how fucking terrible this looks because of his stupid
I've got a guy and a purple tie and a blue shirt. Well, if you if you've got my stream up in any way, uh
The shot I see a plane window. Yeah. Yeah the plane window one is one
There's nothing. I don't think there'd be anything clear in that shot. Anyway, that's just like uh,
Well, just it just looks i'm not even talking about the the clarity of the original image
Like if you look at the colors and the the blotchiness the artifacts
Well on brand table you made it so artistic
So he's saying bane's a great villain because bane's prepared. Is that what he's saying?
He said because we understood well, let's just play it again
Go on brown table teach us and how absolutely terrifying this character is the film starts by introducing him and his resources
Similar to the joker so to introduce him and his resources makes him terrifying
Yeah, when I think a great villain, it's all about those resources. That's what I mean, man
like
Can anyone name off the top of their head a villain who had?
Possibly the most limited resources ever and was still intimidating
That's okay a guy
Just a guy that's kind of what i'm getting. Okay
Like how do you make a guy intimidating when he has no resources?
It's like I got like michael myers. I got one. There you go. Anton shigger. Anton. She doesn't know
Well, he has a gun. I don't know if that counts
Michael meyers is a crazy guy with a halloween mask fucking
Hannibal is where I was going with that
He's like one of the most intimidating terrifying villains ever and he's in a fucking prison
right
Dude, he's got that cross guard lightsaber. Oh my god. He's so scary
I can't figure out if he has all of the resources or none of them. It's a very good luck finding out
They don't want you to know he's so intimidating. He has everything and uses nothing
zemo
Yeah, zemo. Yeah. I mean he has a lot of resources actually
Relatively speaking I think compared to your average guy. I honestly I just think Hannibal kind of destroys this whole
Framing this weird argument. Like you need resources. Like you can still you didn't say you need resources
Because you see his resources
well, I still don't think it's true, but
I can see how he might conflate the like physical resources with the
Uh the efficacy of the villain himself though
You could have a villain who's very efficient and is actually a real threat
Even if he doesn't have any resources because he himself is so imposing or talented
The point I was making is that we you have all four results person
Who's intimidating with loads of resources person who's not intimidating with loads of resources person?
Who's not intimidating with no resources person who is with and so like bane is a person with a lot of resources
So it's about execution then did they did they nail it and all we've got so far from brown table is they did it
you know what my problem with this scene is is it shows that everyone's stupid the cia doesn't like lift the bags off these guys has
To verify their identities or check for explosives or anything before putting them on the same plane
As the guy that they were going after that's retarded. You have the whole thing where they um, they
Do this blood transfusion of dr. Pavel with some random corpse
and
That somehow I guess convinces people that like that guy was dr. Pavel because he had dr. Pavel's blood in him
I guess that that's how you regrow your cartilage. Yeah, that's that's well. No, it's actually how you change your dna
I know that's not how you regrow your cartilage
If you do a blood transfusion around with you
No, you can't get a blood transfusion and regrow your cartilage. Yeah, you totally can i saw it on science
What you have to get a reverse no, I was saying no, I was saying that the uh, the um
Fuck I've lost my truth out there
Um, you can change your dna is what you're saying
Yeah, well, I was I was joking about how this is totally how you change your dna
You get a little blood transfusion and now you have different dna
Oh, okay. Yeah, that was funny
Yeah, totally terrifying this character is the film starts by introducing him and his resources
These are my resources
Hang on hang on
Surely we don't get introduced to the no, we do get in the enemy
I was gonna say his resources at the start of dark night, but we literally see him obtaining his money. So shut up
You idiot to the joker in the dark night
Most interesting about bane is that he seems to have a messiah complex to me believing himself to be the one who can truly
Cause the destruction of gotham further honoring rachel ghoul's destiny
I am the league of shadow
I'm here to fulfill raza ghoul's destiny. Hey, he said raz no rache
Sounded like he said raza ghoul
I do I do have a question though
So the animated lord of the rings movie pronounce the saruman's name as aruman what?
Yes
Excuse me. Yes
The animated lord of the rings movie that came out before the live-action movies had saruman named as aruman
And um, I think that there was a there was some other
um
Thing I think they did it in order to distinguish between saruman and sarin because they felt like people would confuse the two
Yeah, that makes sense to me. It's still that's a that's a good explanation. Not if it's spelt that way in their vision
Okay. Well then how about the last airbender movie where they pronounce ang as ang
Again, if they're all consistent in their univists calling him ang
well
What's the what's the problem?
Poor adaptation in terms of faith. Let us sure
Yeah
Um, I think they should have called him rache especially if that was how it's supposed to be pronounced
But whizz who decided that is the guy who wrote batman who invented did bob kane invent raj el ghoul
I mean, I wouldn't I wouldn't blame them for just simply miss
Uh miss reading the name because I would have like without hearing
Uh the name from like watching the show or the stream down video game. I would
I don't know
I don't know. Yeah, it's down for me. Oh, it's down for me too. Yeah. What if you refresh back?
We did it. Yeah, okay. Yeah, I mean we know we're near a cap. So I don't know what's going on
All right guys back for me hit f5. Yeah
Yeah
Are we good?
Yeah, looks like we're up. Yeah
Rosal ghoul's creator is denis. J. O'neill who is 80 years old and lives in st louis, missouri. So
Did he say it was rache?
Well, we gotta find out
Call him call him right now
No, i'll i'll take mccall what where what's his name any efap followers in missouri st louis missouri somebody must know where he's at
Well, who what's his name?
His name is uh, according to wikipedia denis j. O'neill, but he goes by denny
So how they know that even out for denny. O'neill
Dennis j. O'neill dennis. J. O'neill
He also is the person who put speedy on heroin
All right
And he's still alive. Yeah, greena. Yeah, he's still alive still kicking. He's 80 years old
I still think it's okay to insist on using the original pronunciation to refer to the character
even if the adaptation that you're referring to
Uses a different pronunciation. Uh, I don't know if I have I don't necessarily have a problem with that
But I would take issue if someone said i'm saying it wrong. I'd be like i'm going from
This okay. Sure. That's that's fair. That's fair
I wasn't trying to say it really kind of it kind of depends on the situation
But go ahead if you're gonna make another point
No, I I I just uh
There was a guy that was DMing me who wanted to bring up that point and I
Felt that was worth bringing up when I was talking about ration razz
Well, fuck it
He wants to see him burn and he also wants batman to be torn down and burn along with it
Knowing full well that bruce wayne is batman and he's someone that does not fear dying
He decides to torture him by making him watch the one thing he cares about crumble to pieces his city
Why does he so altruistic?
Why does bain not tell all of gotham who batman was because if you think about it
He's trying to rally people to his cause using this, you know, talk about how the one percent are bad
um doing the regular bernie sanders spiel and then
But he leaves out the part where yeah a billionaire went around
Punching low-income criminals to a pulp at night and then also partook in the cover-up of the da's crimes
Wouldn't that have helped his cause?
Uh, yeah
So why doesn't it be a very good plan?
What why doesn't he just say that do like in his little black gate speech there?
He has different plans. Jesus god
He's busy if he had done what you suggested would they still been able to maintain the wonderful themes? No
Look the plot demanded that you say what you say
Pronounced themes if the people weren't stupid we wouldn't have a story
Yeah, there's actually there's actually a part in the movie where like after bruce wayne teleports to gotham
This is this is the time stamp by the way
It's like about two hours and three minutes in
So they're like they got they got this bag over bruce's head and they take him to this
uh camp or whatever where they've got like a bunch of uh political prisoners like lucious fox and and they've got
Miranda tate aka talia in there as well and
Then the the goons that deliver bruce to them are like, yeah, it's not every day that you deliver
Uh that you bag bruce wayne
and I think like wait shouldn't you guys know that he's batman and that he should be
He should be in ouzbeka stan in that pit
Why why have you forgotten that this is batman who's now in gotham instead of ouzbeka stan?
Hey real quick they didn't expect him to be able to get back so quick
This is unrelated. Well, this is a little bit related to a previous topic. Uh, I am currently messaging alex jaffy
Who writes the question dc trivia for dc daily, uh, the official
Trivia of dc comics and he says there is a canonical pronunciation of raz al ghul
That was you're still fucking talking about this
That was answered at san diego comic-con it's coming straight from dc comics. He's getting me the pronunciation right now
This is exciting. Okay
Guys, we need to crack the case. He's gonna have that to me. Hopefully in the next few minutes
I'm pretty sure it's reish because that's all all I ever hear is I believe it is reish is the canon canonical
What if we get told it's something completely different like I would be
So the first time the first time I was ever exposed to this character was through batman begins, but then as I learned that
Everywhere else calls it calls him reish. I just adapted to calling him reish
Your voice is a bad adaptation of your voice
Yeah, I know. It's a horrible voice. Yeah, I just I call him when I was playing the arkham games
I was like that's reish then what I referred to him in the films
Oh, yeah rozz because that's what they'll call it. I'm just I guess i'm confused on the rules
I mean it's totally fine to use the the um, the wrong pronunciation rags. I'll go
It's it's fine to use the the film's pronunciation for the sake of what like not confusing people
But I think it's also fine to just use the original pronunciation
Okay, so at san diego comic-con the question was answered
Uh, if you are a part of the league of the ass of assashions, you would say reish as a sign of respect
If you're outside of the league or in a rogue as a sign of disrespect you say ras
Thanks for making it even more confusing
So if you only in the league I was gonna say we're not in the league
It depends on your interpretation it depends on your interpretation of character if you're favorable towards his act
What you should say reish
Disrespect him you should say ras
Okay, can I is there anything I can call it if I just want to be like yeah, he's
What the hell look you gotta you gotta choose one or the other man, and then we'll know your opinion on raj al ghul
Based on how you say his name vito. Are you telling me?
Are you telling me that raz is like the n-word to reish raz is yeah, it's the n-word for reish. Um
The roz word, but like it's an appropriate place to call him raz and he just hated it
Wait
You literally can't be wrong about pronunciation that because you could just justify it be like yeah, I don't believe it
Exactly
This is this is canon according to the dc
like no
This is a legitimate thing
Anytime batman says his name he's saying it wrong on purpose to spite him. It's apparent
Good stuff
It's here where bane is wrong because he believes that bruce wayne is batman, but doesn't understand that batman is an idea
Christ's sake man. He's hitting all the video essay buzzword points
He said it unironically student costume
Is an idea
Real oh, yeah, the idea beat up criminals. I was gonna say like, you know doing good
It's like oh, yeah, you can't kill that if you kill batman. It's like well, I don't think that was bane's intention
I was robbing this bank and then this fucking idea came out of nowhere and beat the shit out of me
Yeah, no, but he he's actually you know, like some 80 years ago or whatever
He would have been correct because at one point batman was an idea and bob kane and bill finger's heads
And then they actually like wrote it down and you know drew it and it's still an idea even
I just love because like I feel like he's fucking evoked like vivavadetta right now
Which the point of that is like you can kill v but it won't matter because the idea of rising up against a fascist regime
Is already in the people
So it doesn't matter if you kill him or not. Well with this it's like, okay
So bane wanted to punish batman, but he did realize batman goes beyond bruce wade
The idea of wanting to stop crime goes beyond bruce wade be like yeah
yes
he
He probably knew that I don't know
People are saying kill v as in uh, uh, sargon's friend
Kill v
Who's the v of this group
Oh fuck I thought they were actually referring to somebody
This isn't doing what's right a symbol of what heroes should be
At the start of the film while batman hasn't been seen for years people in the streets believe batman to be a guardian angel gone missing
That's him. That's him. No, no, they believe that he murdered
They believe that he murdered harvey dent. Yeah, I was gonna say that's at odds with that's actual bullshit
Is it i'd have to watch the film again?
Is there an idea that's like I don't think he really killed harvey dent. Is that like a thing or I don't know
I think that I think that um, uh, that's what robin says
But not this kid. He's like you think he'll ever come back
Like at least he's just sketching him because he's like, I kind of like him. He's neat
Yeah, even though like everyone else believes that the official story is that he murdered harvey dent
There's another problem
This this movie wants to do these really nice little visuals here with like a little kid drawing batman symbol
But in context it doesn't work. It doesn't make any sense. Ask other than everyone getting a tattoo of batman symbol
Oh god while the police demonize
It's through the events of the movie that people and especially the police begin to realize that batman is a hero again
A symbol of justice and decide to take back their city. Yes. Yes. Yes
Yes, obviously, but it's not like batman is dead for that. He's actually leading them
We need to take back the city send all the police into the sewer. Oh god, the fucking oh, no
Let's no no, no, let's go on
Let's let's talk about how retarded it is to send all three thousand cops except like maybe a dozen who are off duty
And then you've got robin into the sewers
This is such a great idea. They had to get the job done. That's so fucking stupid
All of them all of them all of it is I feel bad because rags doesn't even know what we're talking about
So you might want to like explain it to him
Narratively how it happens would be great for me because if I like don't know
Anything about the movie and then I was like, oh I guess people don't really like it
But I haven't seen it yet
So if I watch this and then I watch the film it should help me appreciate it more
But I have no idea what he's trying to say irrelevant of like you watching the film
I just want to explain this as an idea to you and southpaw just correct me if I fuck up any of the like details
I'm trying to remain broad but like
So bane wants to take over the city now one aspect of that is that there's a lot of police in gotham
So, what do you do rags? What do you do with the police got any ideas?
And my goal is to what get rid of the police. You want to take over the city?
Um, if i'm trying to get rid of the police
um, then what I would probably do is I would try to create a
series of
Scandals that get people to hate the police. That would be my first step
I would destroy the trust that the public has
In the in the police that sounds rational though amateur hour. All right, southpaw explain what actually happens
Okay, so um gordon ends up in the sewers at some point don't ask. Uh, it'll take too long to explain
um bane's men basically knock him out bring him to bane
gordon escapes and
So then he ends up in the hospital because robin has some clairvoyant ability where he knows where he is
And then while in the hospital gordon is like we need to send every cop that we have down into the sewers
To stop bane and his army. I saw I saw an army and a masked man in the sewers
And so they do that and bane and his men have been creating several bombs all throughout the city
Which like a lot of them actually cave in the the entries to the um to the underground of gotham
Yeah into the sewer
So it's like okay
So they were actually counting on gordon being so stupid that he sends every cop into the sewer
every cop in gotham into the
Cop in gotham except for robin robin is like there are no manholes
Yes, yeah. Well, actually there's one that they lower food down into but we'll ignore that one. God damn it
And so
So it's like so bane prepared
For them to send every cop into the sewers because he was making bombs. He predicted that
Jim gordon who was promoted to commissioner because he
Came up with a very brilliant plan to to catch the joker in the previous movie. And so he's a very smart man, right?
No, he he he's counting on gordon
Being so stupid that he sends all 3 000 cops. That's that's the the exact number that we were given
We were given 3 000
Into the sewer at the same time
And then that's when bane's going to imagine getting that call on the radio. He's like, all right everyone
All cops everything that you're doing we have to go into the sewer to flush out the evil army
They're like, wait, what joe? Listen, i'm in the middle of writing a traffic ticket. Okay, this is more important down the manhole
Jim, I just like the idea a load of someone who's never seen this film before
You're like all of the cops get trapped in the sewers. You'd be like
How how and yeah, how is this possibly a scenario that actually occurs?
There's so many details that just would and I can't believe they went with that. It's so stupid
Joe i'm taking care. We're over here giving cpr. You should just stop just get in the sewers now
Joe, I am I am at the scene of a 10 car pile-up. I am literally putting infants body parts in a ziploc bag
I get
Get in the motherfucking sewer their body parts of the sewer
They're flooding the sewer
But yeah, the they block all the entrances with these explosions and the film basically tells us
Yep, there's just other how long do they live in the sewers by the way? Is it months?
Five months five months rags the bomb the bomb has a timer for five months
That's what we're told right after the the cops are buried. Wait, are the cops in the sewer the whole five months?
Yep, they have a fucking society down there
They officially retarded literally sua people
So so actually if you go back a few seconds in this video, you'll notice there's a bit where they're like lowering
Uh stuff in like into a manhole
That's bain's men lowering food and supplies to
The cops that are stuck in the sewers through that manhole and by the way those supplies include shaving
Cream and razors because when they come out, they don't have any beards. They don't have any facial hair
They don't decide well
Come out
Oh so bad, why does he even keep the cops alive if they're gonna nuke everything like what are they like hostages to an extent?
No, because there's no such thing as hope without despair. We say or despair without. Okay, right
Because that movie is good themes themes
So if you destroy the cops like that then they'll just get replaced by like the national guard or right
No, so so they blow up all the bridges leading to gossip for one and they tell
Everyone like on the news we will we have a nuke
Yeah, they they turn some clean energy fusion cell
Like they say it's clean energy and then when it's being taken out to this football field where bain's doing his big speech
They they mention they've got like some military people watching it and they're scanning for radiation
It's like oh there's a huge radiation spike here
So anybody says that there wouldn't be any fallout from the bomb going off. Fuck you. There would be
And then
They say if any if we see anyone trying to escape and if you try to send any
military
or anything to try to free the city we will
Detonate the bomb and then they actually do send a few
Spec ops guys in and they immediately get get killed and then they don't actually nuke the city
Pretty good film
It's an amazing film. I feel like i'm gonna rewatch this again. I can't imagine it's that stupid
No, it is. I watched it last night. I watched it last night when I watched it
I just turned it off and I don't know. I was kind of tuning it out
I'm like, all right, bad man's punching guys all 3000 cops at dollar shave club courtesy of bain. Oh
Oh and and dr. Pavel reverse engineers the the
Fusion cell thing to become a bomb within like a couple of minutes
Right. Yeah, you can also
They also tell us specifically that he is the only person
Who can do that and then bain snaps his neck on the field. No one else can do it
Ah, so he can't I get it
These begin to realize that batman is a hero again a
To take back their city
They even use his bat symbol during their reconnaissance missions and eventually when bruce wayne returns to gotham the physical embodiment of the batman symbol
He had to connect bruce wayne to batman thematically that was very difficult the batman is the batman symbol
And use the physical batman simple
Oh fuck man
Why we got desperation?
Evan Monroe points out that lucious could probably reverse engineer the the fusion cell because I think that he was the one who made it
Who cares
I can't I can't believe he actually made because like to
To probably explain if anyone's missing on this, right?
So when you're trying to defend the idea of a theme being within a movie
You try and connect every little piece that uh that can sort of support it. And so when brown table was trying to collect
Let's just say exhibits for for this theme
One of them was bruce wayne himself walking back into gotham is is much like
Batman being alive and well because he is the man who is batman
You're like, holy shit, dude
Ironically listen to what he says that is so bullshit and desperate
He didn't know what to write this that people and especially the police begin to realize that that's a job
Again a symbol of justice and decide to take back their city
They even use his bat symbol during their reconnaissance missions and eventually when bruce wayne returns to gotham
The physical embodiment of the batman symbol. He lights up his logo on the bridge
Oh
Gotham is the physical embodiment of the batman symbol. Well, that's poor wording on
Symbol is the physical embodiment of gotham. The batman is the physical embodiment of the batman symbol
So rags please put that in good help
The bat symbol of the a symbol is represent something so okay, so so rags
I have to explain this to you. So batman returns to gotham, right?
He climbs out of this pit and there's no explanation as to how he gets back to gotham despite the film
Establishing that he doesn't have any of his money anymore and we can explain that later if you like that that's also retarded
Um, he doesn't have any money. No resources. Nothing
He uh just shows up to gotham and there's no explanation. There's no throwaway line. No montage nothing
And then he saves gordon and these men from basically having to walk across this frozen
river
and when he saves them
He gives them this flare
and
And and tells them to light it up and they they throw the flare on the ground
They they somehow know where to throw it and it lights up this huge flaming bat signal that batman apparently painted in gasoline
on a bridge
which
granted
In this time in the movie they have like less than 24 hours before the nuke goes off. So
Bruce wayne comes back to gotham. The clock is ticking before the nuke goes off
What does he decide to do?
He spends his time on a little art project painting a bat symbol a giant bat symbol in gasoline on a bridge
I shit you not. I'm hoping he shows it and let's just so rags can see how fucking big it is
And immediately if you had a job yep a duty, you know, what's required of you batman is telling you it's time to fight
Look at this. Oh, wow. How much time?
Wait, how the fuck did he do that? How do you how do you actually do this?
Yes, and and apparently he had like a bungee cord or like some
Imagine you know like with window washes batman's on one of those little platforms he's like
No, no, no, it's just strolling by the previous day like how would it not have all dribbled down by the way?
No, he took he took his flying. He took his flying hovercopter thingy and then he like got on on the the outside of it
While it was just hovering by the side of the bridge
How fucking awkward is it for the people who see the other side of that bridge like, you know, you see from the houses?
Fire
Most people might not even see that as a bat symbol. They were like, oh god, the bridge is on fire. What the fuck?
I'm like, oh, okay. What is that like a bird? It gets it gets dumber. It gets dumber. That's oddly
Fire shaped. So so first of all, first of all, you've got that uh, that guy that we just saw there
he's the deputy commissioner and he doesn't want to fight and so then he
um, he sees this bat symbol and this motivates him to join the fight to liberate Gotham because I guess that
Somehow he knows that this is the actual
Batman that did this as opposed to just the real literal actual batman the real literal actual batman
And then and then uh bane looks at it and he's like impossible
But we know that bane is with talia
Um who they don't realize is talia
She she's taped to them to batman and his you know allies
but
Talia knows that bruce is batman in that
And she sees bruce back in gotham just before the scene
And she's with bane
So you would think if she is the mastermind and she has just seen bruce and gotham
She would tell him hey batman is back and then you cut to bane seeing this and he's like
impossible
and
Oh my god, it's so fucking stupid
It's time to go to war
What the fuck does that tell you it's time to go to war
Uh, it's a flaming thing and I don't know detonator signal to the bone get it onto it before sunrise
It might hit the button when it starts
We want stars
Batman symbolizing the fight for justice affects mostly two characters in the film one being peter foley
And the other being selena kyle catwoman not that catwoman this catwoman. Let's focus. I have a joke fluff
Yeah, it was a digital construction. He cut the soundtrack and then referenced a bad movie
He referenced a bad film. He mentioned the film that was worthy
You guys know you guys have no souls. What the fuck god, it's funny
Great that catwoman this catwoman. Let's focus on selena kyle here. Her goal in the film is that she wants to escape her life
Oh
Let's experience both jokes again
Yeah, and the other being selena kyle catwoman not that catwoman this catwoman. Let's go wait. I'm at 12 27
Yes, I was it still um
If one of you guys drag it back to 1205 so it'll rethink us because me dragging it's not doing anything right now
All right, let's focus on selena kyle here her goal in the film is that she wants to escape her life of
We're going filming
It was really comic sans. It's okay. It was more funnier. So if funny the first time
If he makes the joke at that time, it'll complete the trilogy. Oh, yeah narrative tripling. I love
trilogies never know where they're gonna go
More like narrative if he just if he repeats this another time it'll be a third time and we won't even be bored
You guys excited for where this is gonna go
To escape her life of crime and start anew by using this device called the clean slate to wipe away her criminal past
She also starts the movie a device called the clean slate. Yeah, okay
Rub on your face. All right rags rags. So uh mauler is it okay if I explain this or do you go ahead go ahead?
Okay, so
Okay, so catwoman catwoman starts in the film. She is a maid working at bruce wayne's, uh manner
I guess she's like going undercover because she has to steal his fingerprints and we'll keep that in line
We're not done with it yet. And so then when she's done with that
Um, she gives these fingerprints to a guy who we see later is is working for
bane basically
Um, well working for the guy that played krennic in one, but he's working for bane. Um
and so
um
we find out that the reason why catwoman is doing this is because
krennic basically promised her this thing called the clean slate and there's this really clunky bit of exposition
krennic then says the clean slate the thing that completely erases your criminal history and
Everything and then reveals that it's not even it's not even real which means that catwoman basically accepted this job
A clean slate program that is not real. She didn't verify that it's real before taking the job. She didn't google it
All right
well, that's um
Yeah, I remember thinking it was utterly fucking ridiculous, but hey
That's how it works. It's called the clean slate to wipe away her criminal past
She also starts the movie believing that what bane is doing is justice
But eventually begins to realize that the somewhat totalitarian state that gotham has become ruled
I think we were about to get a great quote there. But yeah, go
Hang on talking about the clean slate. I have to go back to the clean slate
Someone just mentioned that uh, actually yeah later in the film Bruce then tells catwoman that it is real and it's actually his his program
So like like basically krennic thinks that it's not real but it is real because batman made it
But it's like it wouldn't be able to exist either
It's like it goes through every computer and deletes records of you or some shit
How the fuck would it know which ones to delete and how and where and uh, come on. Yeah
Yeah, the clean slate was real bruce had a little time. It's apparently a magic wand that delete people's memories
Memory is delete us and then just fucking
Memory is subjective. It's a thing. We mentioned the fact that he describes. Um
Gotham under bane as somewhat totalitarian. I was gonna say we have to listen to this again because this is funny
It's called the clean slate to wipe away her criminal past
She also starts the movie believing that what bane is doing is justice
But eventually begins to realize that the somewhat totalitarian state that gotham has become this somewhat
I can't believe he actually said that that's crazy
I wish to put you under some water totalitarian state
Be very kind. Can I can I leave? Well, then i'll detonate the new could have made an anarcho-sympicalist come in for anyone to leave
Or joy. Yeah, and the fucking police probably felt it was a tad totalitarian
It's a bit totalitarian
There's people made to go and walk across the ice
I feel like I could just take that one for one and use it in gedelve again. He's doing a lot of that for me
the society that has
System run by scarecrow of all people. Yeah, that's a thing rags
That's somewhat totalitarian
Yeah, so there's this there's a scene where this um, like there's they're sentencing I think gordon in his men
um
To walk across the ice, right? Well how bane and his men get sentenced to that is they put them in a kangaroo
That's run by scarecrow
It's just like a small little scene, but yeah, that's that's him
Isn't totalitarian an extreme as in it's like saying it's a piece of infinity
Like you can't can you have half of a totalitarian state is that even possible?
Yeah, you could have an encroaching
totalitarianism
Trending towards like elements and aspects all of it rather than the full thing
This definitely isn't an encroaching totalitarianism that we know
I'm a little lost. Is he giving us one reason why this movie is good yet?
At this point. I don't even know what's happening. He's just telling us things about it
Yeah, he's just telling me the whole plot of the movie the way her criminal passed
She also starts the movie believing that what bane is doing is justice
But eventually begins to realize that the somewhat totalitarian state that gotham has become ruled by the insane
Is not what justice truly is ruled by the insane is not what justice
How do you write that
That's a good theme right learning that putting all of your government in the hands of crazy people is not justice
That's profound
Really makes you think thanks brown table. We truly live in a society
It's just wow
Good stuff. I'm glad catwoman went on this incredible arc
She believes gotham to be under this aristocratic rule at the start of the film and steals from the rich
But eventually comes to realize that bane's goal is not the same as her goal
And for the rest of the movie she just wants to leave
Yeah, she's pretty retarded to think that bane is honestly on his side the second that she locks up batman to fight him
Uh, I remember she has like those those looks of like oh, no, maybe I wasn't a goodman in this scenario
It's like yeah, not not really and then everything just gets further and further out of hand
I don't believe there was a part of the film where she was like bane is running a good society
She really is this is what I wanted
Oh, I mean, I I don't think it would be reasonable
Sorry for it to say that but I can't remember. She actually does because I haven't seen this movie in so long
No, that's not her arc
Goal and for the rest of the movie she just wants to leave
She also sees a bit of herself and bruce and also wishes him to leave gotham
And in the end it's a decision selena kyle has to face whether she's gonna stand up for the helpless of gotham again
But fight for true justice this time true justice
Not that
Literal justice not that justice is where you let insane people rule your state for some reason
And her desire to live a normal life also has some influence on bruce as at the end of the film
He leaves to italy with her knowing that batman is truly
I thought the end was supposed to be interpretable
Like it could go to one of two ways that this is actually all in alfred's head or not
Because there's no fucking way the batman could have escaped the explosion. So there's a good chance. He's actually dead
Yeah rags. They they actually show a shot of of batman in the cockpit of that
batwing thing flying the bomb over the ocean and
Right after they show that shot they've been cut to
A shot of the timer on the bomb and it's like five seconds left
So he's fucked but then they show us here that oh, no, he's actually alive
Is that and they they established that the autopilot for the bat was fixed
So there's like some evidence there that oh, it was just a sept of editing
But it's still bullshit
Yeah, I I remember people talking about how this this ending was supposed to be something you interpret as alfred
What alfred wanted? I remember being like, okay
Because bruce was obviously dead and I was like, okay
Oh, I don't hate that interpret not to mention
Not not to mention that by the time that um, batman actually lifts off with the bomb in tow
He has a minute left on the timer
And the blast radius is six miles
His helicopter has to go faster than the fastest that a helicopter has ever gone
In order to is it the batcopter?
Um
Yeah, dude, he's fine. He's batman. Shut up
I love the argument that clearly you're supposed to think that this isn't literal because it doesn't make any sense
Exactly
So he's like of course it's gone because it couldn't possibly happen the scenes in the film. I'm serious on the football field speech. Um
Bane, uh, and dr
Pablo established that the blast radius is six miles
Yeah, well
As if this film needed more fat copter motherfucker. Come on
That thing can work solidified itself as a symbol and that it will live on inspiring gotham citizens to do some good
But how does that happen? How does bruce get to this point? I don't care. Is this like a
video like
Feels weird this part of the video. We just gotta ask how does bruce get to the point of being a symbol that people
I mean
Why do why do we need the answer? I thought you were telling me why this film is better than I remember it
Come on
Oh shit the bruce dead death
Um, uh thundercats hd said batman fixed the autopilot. It's a scene at the end of the film
What's the response to southpaw you watched it last night?
No, that that's what I mentioned is that lucious sorry, it's it's mentioned to lucious that batman
Mentioned what to lucious the batman. Yeah that batman fixed that batman fixed the autopilot
So, uh in which case he could have just got him
He's still got a minute to make it six. I was about to say but there are shots of him in the cockpit
Exactly. There's a shot of him in the cockpit and not
Unless it's a robot batman
Yeah, he's also like looking he's he's like looking over to his right after he like passes the um
The the bridge where uh joseph gourd leavitt is standing
So it's like okay
So it's not the bullshit explanation where oh, no
He jumped out after he like created an explosion or something and there's some sleight of handshake going on there. No
He's like the film shows him in the cockpit
I guess maybe he had like a lead line refrigerator somewhere in the bat to climb into
Yeah
Unless he's like ayah
Dark where he has like nine lives or whatever
Boss a few from the to the best bridge
Be heard of that bat everyone knows that bats have nine lives, right? He warped
The shot of batman in the cockpit is an editing trick to make us think he's still on board
That's still bullshit
Any conflicting visuals are just editing tricks like what
It's one of those classic editing tricks where you show a character in a situation that isn't actually all those scenes in civil war
They were editing tricks to distract
I go and I go the knife the knife they showed in the guy's head when he was attacking ray was just an editing trick
That's an editing trick. It's a lie classic hollywood you guys come on
I can learn these tips and many more on skillshare.com
Perfect skillshare
Do they teach you how to put wids on the screen because he's doing that a fucking lot of this video
It it reminds me of this is the pit
No, I always thought it was the whole I'm just mad what is this like the 20th
Fucking video it reminds me of the um the arrested development
Um, like I lied to you my trick implies that it's a playful thing
Oh
God
Climb out of the gutsy the pit of death
For the entire movie has been falling and can't get up
How can you do that when you're trying to be serious for a second you're like the pit of death
He's trying to get out of the pit. I've fallen and I can't get it's like dude
Even even video essays have a tone to maintain. Okay, this is like ryan johnson level
tone maintenance
The pit is hell on earth a place where no one can escape to stay. What do you mean?
Do we think most bars mean on the screen those blurs that he's had and why do you think he's done?
It's like a prison get it
No
Like a prison that's why
Also, he said no one could escape it's like we we watched someone escape it and bait had escaped it no no update
I need to cover that still it delivery really quick
It is hell on earth
Oh, you did that let's have a tonal pulling and can't get up
Now the pit is hell on earth a place where no one can escape to stay is to accept death
But bruce wants to escape and to do so fuck are these bars doing here actually?
You're right. Why are they here? Wait, that's not part of the movie. No
Part of his tismy video editing
Fucking skillshare god damn it skillshare. What have you done?
Where the bars on the video is mysterious until he's trying to tell us something
I think that he basically just wants us to stop looking at the movie and just the words that he puts on screens
He's gradually blocking out everything. He's figured out why he said said batman's face. Surely this means something like I said
We will eventually get prison bars
We'll eventually get to a brown table video where there's like no visuals. It's just words. It's just random blurry images
Okay, my theory he was gonna do jail bars and he knew that he wouldn't be able to make them look like
evenly spaced because of the way the pit without either breaking them in the middle or
Doing lots of them and then drawing a space out for the pit which would have been much cooler
Instead you could just do two quick fat ones to go across the center done
Why does he need visual metaphors? You have actual scenes of batman in a prison. What's it? It's a fucking analysis
A fucking graphic design prison. It's not an analysis. Well, I was gonna say video. He thinks this is analysis
This video is a pit of despair from which
This video is followed and it can't be done by skillshare is my analysis
Thanks
The top of the pit
From the bottom of the pit looking up but the blurt covers the top of the pit
So you're just looking at a wall now and ironically, this is the equivalent of this is a movie in the theater
Everyone's throwing popcorn at the screen
Stop
I'm just so confused. I see like half a staircase. I paid ten dollars. Well, you need to notice it's the pit
It's the pit. That's all that matters. This is this is a visual
This is also that the pit isn't even centered between the two blurs. So it's slightly doubted
This is actually a visual metaphor for how hard brown table has to squint his eyes to make this movie look good
I hope the rest of the video is like this. I love it. Oh
I'm wondering if he's gonna sync up
If you'll then look at all of the uh, the shitty editing that seth zinch
Uses in his video and it's hilarious and you're always laughing. This is the opposite. It's complicated in so much
Thought went into it and it's terrible. Thank you skillshare
I'm getting a drink and out of the pit without a rope and find the fear he's been lacking
Find his will to survive and overcome this obstacle completely
Not out of his duty to fight for his city but out of personal desire. I'm gonna kill myself if these fucking bars
I'm gonna buy a guy. He's about two legs at the pit. I like that line, you know veto
I don't want you to kill yourself. Okay, I did not take it seriously on the last week that I appeared on but seriously
Don't don't fucking joke about that shit. It's too soon. Okay
I'll just kill everyone around me. Is that fine?
Don't stay for too long totally fine by me. I've just checked. Okay. Thank you. J. I'm gonna scream
What they just disappear random what a weird part to put
Can you get the pants off the fucking screen it is
Which is why the cars disappear I feel like
He's actually peak video essayist that is pissing us off actively these like stupid little artificial uh superficial choices
artificial
Barriers of blockage to my ability to see the film it's all the footage is already dark and like obfuscated
You don't need to add on
No, it's like hard to see like it would be in a
desire to fight for a city once you are
Oh
It snaps off because he said it wouldn't look it would look better if it would fade it into clarity as well
It does actually it does come off because he said I fear death. It was like I feared that so he
Oh, right
Yeah, the fear of death freedom from things
It literally does represent the bars of the prison that's why
It
you guys just hate odd also, uh
Again, like I said, it would actually look pretty damn cool if it had faded into a clear image instead of faded out
Looks like complete garbage. Yeah. Yeah
It also just feels like the hackiest shit like well Christopher Nolan had, you know
Like a theoretical pit, but i'm gonna add on top of it to make it even more like a fucking metaphor
Someone in chat said it might be a copyright thing. He's like, no, no, no, no, no, no
He's he's definitely going for the artistic merit with that one
He sat back and he thought really hard about putting two fucking big old bars on the screen. So I can't see what's going on
I said, yeah, it'll make it better rip the bars gone too soon
I really like that
The way to get out of the pit is to remove the rope as if uh, you're going to take more risks
If you remove the rope, so the issue here is bruce takes uh, he does. Oh wait is rags here
He didn't mute his microphone, but he's not here
Okay
What do you do is like shoveling ice or something?
We should we should like explain this to rags and hear his reaction to how bruce gets out of the pit
I want to hear his reaction in fear. It's so dumb
But like yeah the what he's saying isn't entirely inaccurate the idea is like
You have to let go of fucking safety nets and pursue your goal. Honestly or some shit
I can't remember but it is dumb that he just takes the fucking rope off
You would think that the fact that he needs to get back to gotham should serve as enough motivation for him to
Like make that jump in that knowing that he has a safety net in case he fucks up. He can like he'll still
Survive, so why not like, you know
Jump that much further or whatever
Rises yeah, I got that part
Shut up
Did you know this movie has a title
And the title is relevant to the events that transpire within the film
When he's fucking insane
He has to stop bain's nuclear bomb from going off and we get what I keep talking about time and time again
a timer account
When have you talked about a timer
I'll trust that he's done it remember this
Flying to me. I bet he keeps using the words like
Just pushing them in like where they don't fit there's two and a half minutes left. He's still just describing the plot of the movie
Next we get a timer
He has to stop bain's nuclear bomb from going off and we get what I keep talking about time and time again
a timer a countdown
a ticking clock
A timer account down a ticking clock what the fuck is wrong with you?
He would ironically argue that by the way if you're like, you see I use a lot of trilogy language in my
Right hate it it's a theme something used in media to create
All right, tell rags about the pit tell me about so is this the blurry pit
Bruce makes Bruce makes three attempts to get out of the pit. So
Oh like a trilogy
The first two fail the first two fail because he has this rope wrapped around his uh, his waist, right?
And when he you asked me right like I can confirm this with you. Sorry
So he's got this on how what happened? He has this rope wrapped around his his waist
And there's this giant jump that he has to make and he fails to make that jump twice
And then he falls down and then somehow like doesn't have his body snap in half from whiplash when when he like
hits the bottom of of where the rope reaches so then
Then um, he is told that the child that escaped from
Uh, however many years ago did it without the rope and so basically bruce has to let go of any
um
safety that he has and like embrace his fear or some shit and then
Jump, like he has to make that jump without the rope. Okay, the rope so like the rope won't let you fly farther
Uh, no, it like it doesn't seem like it would it would be I was gonna say you think it's not gonna
It's not gonna help her. It's a metaphorical
Uh barrier of blockage it's a
Psychological barrier blockage
So then he he takes the rope off and then that that motivates him to jump further
As opposed to oh my god, I need to get back to my city
Like that should have been enough
He needed the fear the fear of death
Yeah, but you would think that actually here if you'd actually got a safety harness on though
You would be willing to take extra risks like that because you know that you won't die
It's it it's backwards. It's
Again, it's actually an example of the thematically suitable in in in the without the thing
He's going to be concerned that he's going to die
Of course because he's got no safety net, of course
And the the film's trying to say without the fear of death you cannot
Have an interest in being alive or some shit
It's like oh, I guess that kind of lines up. It's like but that doesn't make any sense logistically
It's a rope that prevents your death if you miss the fucking stone
And it doesn't prevent you from getting to the stone. So it's just stupid to take it off. What are you talking about?
It's a super simple fix as well. I make it so that inhibits him in some way. It's really
It's yeah, that would also work too
It's really only there so that they can have more attention when he does that final attempt because you know
All right. If he doesn't make those jump he dies. Let me just turn it from a rope into a heavy chain
Yeah, yeah, yeah
I mean you should see the falls he takes from it. You'd be like didn't he
I can imagine that a rope that doesn't have any
You know give to it
Would oh like, you know, that's not a bungee
All right, honestly, yeah, they use that exact method to kill people
Yeah, yeah, like he he falls and then yeah, he stopped because of the but it looks like
But the whiplash honestly looks like it would like break his hips or something
Yeah, it looks bad, but but this is the thing. It's part of the film to make us go. Oh he failed
He's got to keep training. But at the same time you're like, is he not dead yet?
Did breaking his back not give him permanent? No, okay
He also spends an entire hour in this prison and they could have just had this done with like one attempt and it would have been fine
I'm embarrassing by the way that like if you just like the it seems to me just go up there without a rope
You'll be fine. You could do it like oh
Yeah, and then at the very end, you know what he does after he climbs out of the pit
He throws down a joke that's next to the pit down to the prisoners that they can all climb out now
And there's no guards up there
None of them in the prison for like a reason like they committed crimes
No, we don't know anything about this stupid prison. It's oh, it's beyond
Who needs fucking logic or skill or craftsmanship when you have feels?
It's a metaphor
Time again a timer a countdown a ticking clock something used in media to create tension
Thanks for that uses of time. Thanks for explaining what a timer is
I swear to god if this clip from Christopher Nolan is going to explain that having a ticking clock gives us tension
I'm going to fucking shit on this video
Is he gonna end on this clip?
And then like to create tension. Well, I think one of the great uses of time in
Film noir
Tension it really speaks to the use of time in these kind of films
You really want to try and ratchet things up and in the dark night rises. We try and tell a very
Try and really compress it and accelerate it towards the end. So time is very very elastic in the film
Time is elastic in the film
Time is elastic. Isn't that the opposite of time elastic?
Like time is very stative and definitive
Not I mean in a physical. I mean for us. Yes in a physics sense
Not so much but for a human being yeah, we move forwards very slowly through time constant
I think he means like pacing
I mean in a movie world you can definitely speed up and slow down at will
For example, like a whole bunch of scenes go past. It's like we've lost one second of the time. It's like what?
All these references to Nolan really haven't actually
Honestly, dude on anything you were saying a channel I would recommend
For like I enjoy a decent chunk of his videos lessons from the screenplay
He does both the um the commentary tracks or interviews in the form of waveforms
And he does the whole uh lifts the screen up and does the screenplay
It looks like brown table is a fan and he just doesn't know
The substantive reasoning for why lessons from the screenplay does that like he doesn't
He doesn't get it like there's information you can get from a screenplay. That's not available from the movie
That's the whole point of lessons from the screenplays video channel
Like you look at notes or uh the ways in which something's conveyed in in in the writing that wasn't necessarily in the film
Or it was we didn't notice it like that's the idea
But this seems to be brown table makes a point like the sun is bright
And then he has the fucking interviewers say relatively speaking the sun can be bright to certain human beings
I found that you still like no one saying
It man, and this is the thing he keeps using up on points that no one's really going to disagree with it's like
Yeah, there is a literal tiber at the end of the film
The tension rises as soon as it gets closer closer to the end
Congrats, you see the film has a ticking clock that makes it pretty good
Because no one talked about ticking clocks at one point in this interview thingy
And
Must make the ultimate sacrifice the physical embodiment of batman must be removed for batman to truly become the representation
I'm sorry. I missed it. What was it?
Rewind I was gonna say the reaction. I want to know what he said
The physical embodiment of batman must be removed for no no rewind further
We're going back
The ultimate sacrifice the physical embodiment of batman must be removed for batman to truly become the representation
Of heroism the physical embodiment of batman must be removed for him to become
What the represent heroism
He means that he's gonna have to become a martyr and he fly people while he's still alive
Which is like no batman has to become the symbol and you can't do that when you're dead
No, you can only do that when you're dead
No, because it's it's a seeming reference back to the dark night you either
Die a hero or live long enough to see yourself become the villain you see
I I think I think that's what he's trying to say
The idea that the public wouldn't have accepted him as quite the lesson on heroism if he was still alive
Like the fact that he died to save the city quote unquote is enough for them to be like, ah, he is the symbol of heroism
but
physical embodiment batman must be removed in order to become the sim like I just
Using the first physical embodiment is really confusing
Since he's saying physical embodiment is he referring to the bat symbol? Why don't you just say no, he's referring to the batman
Yeah batman himself
symbol
Oh, well, yeah, according to the parts of his video before that's definitely something you could say. Yeah
Batman is the bat symbol of the bat heroism. Don't you see price brown table you hit you hit everyone
The representation of heroism now with the figure of batman being celebrated as a hero
Bruce can go and live on for himself as the dark night has risen again
This is the most video essay video essay we've watched it a long time
This is not even trying does anything that this guy has
Has said does it does any of it actually make up for the absolutely retarded idea of sending those three thousand cops into the sewers?
Obviously not said anything about he's pretended to happen to be
Not to mention not to mention that
Gotham is supposed to be the size of new york city and in the 70s the new york city police force was uh,
I think 30 000 so gotham is 27 000. Yeah, but it's so great that I guess they don't need it need that many cops
Thanks to the den act
which
Yeah, we don't know exactly
like what what um
What policies are in the dent act that resulted in they just did okay. They just did. Yeah
As the dark night has risen again in a whole nother way
And the truth is I think the film's theme of rising after being beaten is incredibly impactful
It's a message that's told the truth is I think it's impactful
Did he read that? Oh, that's why that's why it's good. Okay. It has a theme that's surprising after being beaten like, you know
I have
I was about to say that's essentially superhero movies follow that structure. Typically every single movie
Still the second act low point
The plot makes no sense it is run on idiocy it relies on characters being so stupid at physics
Or they're they're capable of making these insane infra
Like okay gordon is definitely going to send cops into like every cop into the sewers. So we're going to plan
accordingly to that and then another character
Telling theory how that bruce wayne is batman from a look on his face
It's like that's the scale you either have
super unrealistically brilliant characters or
Super retarded characters who should not be in the positions of authority that they're in that they are in in the film
So
Fucking can I just put a public service announcement out there to anyone writing essays or video essays or anything like that
Please read your scripts
After you finish them read them. Don't just read them read them out loud
Read them and be like did I like adequately explain anything or did I just you know, explain the plot of the movie at length?
Read what you said out loud. They said about me though
That's what people say about me. You don't like my content
They're like, oh you just read the plot and i'm always like well
kind of I usually
Point out when something is good or bad and you say why it's good or bad
He didn't I don't think he did that once you go under the hood as it were like figuring out
That sounds sexual things are doing within the film also
No, what i've come away with is this movie had timers and it's a trilogy and it's about someone who gets knocked down
It's about rising in that different sense
Which makes it all yeah, it's it makes it better than you remember
Come on guys. We're probably
We're probably near a good other skill share ad we could do this
Time again to rise up after falling down
A message about not giving up and the film displays what a true hero can be
The film displays what a true hero can be
What a fucking platitude dude
Describing every superhero movie you're supposed to tell me why dark knight rises is good
Iron man shows us what a true hero can be captain america shows us what a true hero can be thole shows us what a true here
Captain barville shows us what a true hero. No a true hero. No one of them false heroes
Not a hero a hero expiring but don there's also the theme of death
and rebirth
What theme of death and rebirth?
Hang on that show that how it happens like twice
Death and rebirth. Oh, no, that makes it happen
References brown table references
Well, the video before would be his reference, but
We've seen it since i'm waiting for him to just fucking throw them all out be like there's a theme of birth death resurrection
Betrayal bonds. I was waiting for like a
Like a moment was gonna like analyze a scene and like how it was shot
But see those are the kinds of videos that we all very much enjoy typically if they're done
Well, these ones are just a fucking waste of time
Dark knight rises. There's a movie about
The dark knight rose. He was sad
But like this this honestly really scares me as like content because like a bunch of people sat through this and watched it
And like think that they sat through film criticism
It's like yeah, i'm really i'm really into like film criticism views on you know on youtube. I watch a lot of those videos
I know a lot about film bro. It's like you didn't what did anyone learn from this at all?
Then the dark knight is about falling down and get back up. Like I said, you know what I learned
Go ahead
Sorry, I learned that chris fernoullen is not infallible with this movie. That's what I learned
Yes
I hated the style of
It wasn't that off to this though
True. Wait, is that true? Yes, it was. Oh, there you go. There you go. I didn't I don't think I hated no one at this point
I think I was okay. Yeah, I liked I liked batman begins. I liked the prestige. I liked dark knight. I like the prestige exception
Uh, I hadn't seen memento, but he had like in
All hits record, right?
He was he was great all the way through and then this came along and then interstellar came after that
And then dunkirk came after that and like god, what the fuck happened to you? No
Yeah, I mean this this definitely was like a showing the god bleeding sort of scenario with people because they were like
No, dark knight rises is still really good. It's like it really wasn't
No, I remember that being the case for ridley scott and prometheus people were like, but but really but really scott
Oh my god, dude, how could anyone defend that movie people do people did?
Some people like well, hey giant spaceship
Sometimes you don't know that you gotta go to the lab. Some people argue like uh, well, hey, it's no it's no alien covenant
It's like he made that too
The league of shadows is reborn with talia and bane what do you mean is reborn they were part of it since the beginning
Did I just react to the part that you guys aren't in sync with he just said the um
Shadow the league of shadows is reborn. It's like no it wasn't
These guys have been a part of it. She left when she was a kid the of the pit. Um
Bane had been with the league of shadows the whole time. In fact, is there a line to explain where they were this whole time?
The league of shadows no, no, I mean I guess this is addressed to south pole
But like where have they been where has bane and talia been?
We don't know because they I think that no one just pulled them out of his ass
because they've been in nolan's ass
I'm seriously wasn't wasn't being established criminal or at the beginning of the movie or no
well, so they they mentioned a masked man, which they were referring to as as bane like the
little finger
cia agent guy
Uh, you know here's oh, yeah, they they work for the mascot demand and and he's like bane. So bane is
Clearly a presence in this world
Um by the time the film starts, but we don't know exactly like what they've been doing since batman begins
Which took me to assume talia is just watching after he's waiting for the time to strike being when gotham is cleanest
Yeah, good job
Strike from the eye and it's stone cold inspiring
There's also the theme of death and rebirth
The layer of shadows is reborn with talia and bane gotham dies to only be reborn better and brighter
What do you mean gotham dies? What does that mean?
I guess it it becomes somewhat totalitarian
That's yeah
Only to be reborn batman dies and yet john blake finds the bat cave and batman will live on
Um, the film like a lot of films is layered with
Impossibilities like how did bruce heal his back so quickly? How do you get back to gotham?
Exists, but having no relevance to the plot in any way
It's not important oh my god, it's not important
The important thing it's not
He says they are plot holes, but they don't have to do with the plot
It's like how can you think both of those things the things that make the plot happen don't function in any way
But that doesn't have to do with the plot
Oh god
It's not can we play that one more time? Yeah
This is like, uh, I love this so many times man will live on
The film like a lot of films is layered with impossibilities. Like how did bruce heal his back?
Not not not a lot of films not not everything
A lot of films are this bad. Yeah, I was gonna say there are a lot of films with that right?
I mean, okay. Okay, fine. Yeah a lot of films not every film though. Not just like fucking hell
There's so many films that aren't layered with these issues. Why do we have to have these issues lots of movies have plot holes
I don't see what the problem is
Lots of movies are badly written. I don't see how you can say this is badly written. He got back up
It's about death. I mean think about it
This is like the death and rebirth of flat holes his his back broke it healed death rebirth
The rebirth right there, you gotta think about it
Hmm
Back to god quiet sheet plot holes like that exists, but having no relevance to the plot in any way
Mission what the fuck are they plotholes if they have no relevance to the plot?
We just said they shouldn't be considered plotholes
Okay
Okay, rewind a few more seconds rewind
But that that man not having his back like curing his broken back allows the plot to happen
Well, let's let's do it one more time
I want to make sure of what he says like a lot of films is layered with
Impossibilities like how did bruce heal his back so quickly?
How do you get back to gotham plot holes like that exists?
But having no relevance to the plot in any way they shouldn't really be considered plotholes, but so they have
Wait, that's not the sentence. Well, I mean
Shouldn't have any relevance to the plot. So he's saying they
Everyone always uses those words
Okay
We will be quiet and we will hear this in its entirety
Let's no we we did we did we did he said he just said that uh, people consider them plot holes
They're not their nitpicks essentially
And they're not
Okay, I am so fucking tired of people using
Nitpick to dismiss any criticism of any error of of any story's writing i'm fucking sick and tired of it
You know what a nitpick is i'll give you a nitpick about the
The editing is shit, okay, the visual effects are shit the the you see guns shooting
There's like hardly any muzzle flashes. You don't see bullet holes
You just see sparks flying on the ground and and no bullet holes in the walls or anything like that
There's no blood in the film. That's a nitpick that has nothing to do with the plot
Like I I mean you can have terrible shit like that in your film
But it can still be a good film overall if you've got a great story and you've got great characters and it's written
Well, and it's airtight, but when you have issues like yeah, the characters are so dumb that you know
The police commissioner like he's so dumb that he's wanting to send all 3 000 cops into the sewers at the same time
And you've got you know fucking banes mercenaries. They're so dumb that they don't uh, they don't realize
Oh shit bad hands back in gotham. Let's kill them right here while we have the chance. You've got so
you you have institutions entire institutions so stupid that a plane which has its wings snapped off
And then its fuselage dropped
Several miles away from where the wings ended up
They they think that that's a legitimate plane crash and not suspicious at all
They buy that because that opening scene takes place
So, you know, it's not about the airplane it's about the clocks it's about the
They're mistaking what the movie's about
This is just nitpicking man
As long as the timers are intact there's no problem
Shut the fuck up idiot of this word being misused. Okay
Nitpick is being turned into a word that basically means any criticism that I don't care about
That's not what it fucking means and the the points that we're bringing up aren't even fitting the actual definition of nitpick
Which means it's a legitimate criticism, but it doesn't matter this stuff does matter. It's massive
This has massive consequences on on the story
It's like the things that allow the plot to happen are consistently broken in incredibly obvious ways
Yeah, like not like
That are so noticeable to the audience that for a while. It was like the go-to example for a plot hole
Yeah, that's how many people is happening
The other huge this entire plot does not function the other buzz not weird buzz
Comment you get is people going people don't even know what plot hole means
Whatever I hear that I'm like, most people know what a plot hole is. Most people do most people understand how it works
Yeah, most most people don't know what a nitpick is that's like honestly and ironically true
Yes
And at the very least whenever they define it
It's always the same fucking shit nitpick means invalid criticism or something like that. You're like, no, no, that's not
Mm-hmm. It's not what it means. It is not what it means. I fucking who uses nitpick in any other context to mean that like
You know, you know what a nitpick is it's black text showing up on a dark green background and suicide squad
But that's a legitimate fucking criticism
Yeah, and I guess I would say it's a nitpick because we don't necessarily need to know where this place is really
It's fucking bad. Yeah, no, of course
Don't do it
You're right this
No, I am not all right
The brown table's fucking broken me happens. How did batman do it? Because he's
He just does it because he's a batman no, no, no, no, no, no, no, wait, he's gonna tell us why the movie's good now
That was the intro that was the intro
50 seconds to go lads of the film being good saying that this stuff is possible because he's batman is basically just admitting that batman
So mary fucking sue in this movie. It's like when you say
Oh, yeah raised survives all the bullshit in the force awakens the last guy because she's right
It's the exact same fucking argument
But I think he might not see that as a problem because I think he might
Ironically make that argument. Yeah
Go ahead
I
Call this chance again. How's it going chats? Thanks for watching. Stop doing that. Did he actually call this chance again?
Oh guys alan alan is one of his supporters. Oh my god, it's alan
Good on alan and cows that explained why the middle alan wrote many books. He's supported by cows
Just generally cows it's a posted by brandon floor
Skillshare crew is here. Oh, let's read his credits
This content for me and I want to thank my patrons for helping me out every month
I wanted to shout out bman lego boy for being oh my god. Hi top. Hi top. Oh my god films
of course
Ironically high top you make better videos than uh, the brown team. Yeah, you know, I actually there's a couple of videos of his
I haven't
In the beginning of my shazam review I mentioned that I generally liked his
But yeah lately he's been a fucking retard and like he they did this thing they called one marvelous scene
It was him and just right in nando v movies and brown table and a bunch of other people
Picking a movie to analyze and praise about you know, the mc
Not many nitpick
Yeah, well neat pick rather like they're over analyzing one scene and talking about how deep it is and shit
And yeah, some of those videos are actually not bad
Um, but yeah, this is like their click like high top brown table
Nando just right there. They are all like a click together, which is fine. I'm just saying like they they are affiliated basically
like we are
They're the anti-east tin foil hat connecting these dots
Um, so I was gonna say i'm assuming you you wanted to go to sleep at some point, right jay
Uh, I I did but um now you're old buzz don't use
Are we gonna do memes because I kind of well there's a lot of memes
Uh, the problem is that I want to cycle in critical drinkers arrived as well as as as far as i'm aware jay longbone
Oh, don't worry i'll bail and you'll have one slot
Well, I was actually gonna you don't have to if you don't want to because I was gonna say that the people who are forced
To bail now would be jay first then theo then southport then you I guess
I was gonna take a nap maybe uh, and then if you guys are still going
Well, yeah, okay, if you want to jump out, that's no problem
Vito, I just i'm happy to bail
You know, you seem excited to do memes so I can I can dip
Uh just again, it keeps like you don't have enough people, I guess going pretty soon after that
Someone was gonna say something to me. Yeah, it was it was me. I I really enjoyed getting to efap a video with you
Oh, I love you, buddy. Yeah, I love you too. You're my favorite duck. Oh
It's a ticking duck. You got a soft face
What? Uh, uh, yeah, we done wait, did we find out why it's good?
No
Yes, we're done. No, we didn't
Yeah
All right. I hate this guy and I never want to see any of his videos again
I hope he covers all of them with random blurry lines so I can't see the video footage sometimes. I think that's really cool
I'm gonna steal. I would love to just ask him. So the blurry lines. What what's what's going on there?
Like really what were those that those took work to put in like extra effort went into putting those in
What was or are you trying to do with those exactly? And he's gonna go. Well, if you sign up for my skill share
You'll find out. It's like that's a skill share secret. You got to be on the inside
You got to be on the premium plan 895 a month
Uh-oh
I was gonna say if you want to jump power us up to you. Oh, yeah. Yeah, i'm gone. Bye
She's needs 20 minutes. Oh
That makes us question what in the world should we do now should it be a video should do some memes
I think we should do hello gentlemen. Hello there. Hello. Hey, how is everyone doing this evening?
Excellent seven and a half hours into nonsense. That's what i'm doing
I was doing very well 20 minutes ago
Brown table became a super negatism. Yeah, I think he broke your brain by the side of things
Yes, he did. He absolutely did. I'm not normally like this but goddamn
I'm kind of glad I didn't watch the entire video
He's brown table he's not worth it man, he's not worth it
I was gonna say that I put up a tier of tonaled so you don't
Get it bad at him is just you know
Tonaled is our fearless leader. So surely he's pretty high tier
Oh, well, if you remember there's two tonals there's one that's a god and then one that's like a golem style thing. Oh
So it really depends on the context of conversation. It's very complicated
Can you refer to him the different pronunciation depending on you know, what inflection you want to have whether you support his actions?
You not
You
That's a loaded question
Well, I have a gun that i'd rather load rather than the question
I have a gun you're in wales true. Um
We got I got a selection of of memes that have been sent recently and then we could have a totally a meme section
Oh, yeah, so see this is awkward because the best people for memes are like me rags
uh j fringy
Metal south porphyo that selection of people who are aware of how tismy everything gets so apologies
Uh critical drinker you're just gonna yeah, I may I may end up sitting here in silence for a little while
Let's see how this will make any sense
probably
People take it too personally they see it as an attack on themselves personally
That I guess that's me me as a fish and wolf as a fish with pizza
How many times have you said this? Yeah, I can't remember some of these have been seen before at all
But it's been so long that I know some of them haven't
Um, uh rags I played this in the intro. So I know you've seen it right. You'll you'll still get this
This is an amazing meme and the person who made it. I yeah, we're gonna watch it
We're gonna watch it again in the meme section
Oh, I adore it so much. It's so good
We'll we'll definitely go through with us. That meme is a is a foreshadowing of what we are to do
Beautiful, I don't know if someone made this or if it's real. I don't really care. I love it regardless
Yeah
I would wear that t-shirt. I will buy that shirt
That was uh the first video we covered with gymsailor and the color scheme made people nervous
Is
This was actually an old one, I guess I missed um, it's the three-eyed raven on the
The fucking wheelchair throw with the coffee
I like that. I like that big wheels. Holy shit. Oh, yeah
I've let it start. This is just awesome fan art that I like
Oh, yeah, that's awesome
You know, I guess this will easily cycle us into the meme section, I guess which I feel
How long are you gonna be around for critical drinker?
Uh, how long is the meme section gonna last?
Fuck well
A lot of it is like art as well. You could just
Straight up most people like look at this. For example, that's pretty fucking awesome kind of wish friggy was here
But i'm trying to make him watch all of it
That is awesome
Is the reference to a pasty fab you guys remember that
Basically someone said that vader was a cheap rip-off of robocop even though he came before
Wow
Hides his virgin face entirely
Rip off from 1977
This is uh, so this would have been for shad I guess but um back that armor doesn't do shit in game of thrones
You had an armor piercing sword it makes sense
It's just over leveled what's ahead for me and ranks
24 stream another day 24 stream another day
We're doing it
This one is uh
I was said to I'm not sure entirely of the context of which efap it might fit in with or if it was just a piece
Of art on its own, but I still like it
What yeah, okay
Well, that was we showed that one before it this that's the other thing. I can't quit this like a thousand memes
I can't remember which ones we've actually seen or not. Sometimes it's hard to remember
So managing
Hmm oh and this is definitely from this
No
This is the one that jade already saved
Vr is only for the fit
I was actually tuned in a little um earlier when you guys were were watching his video. Um
That was one of his big criticisms of vr that uh, you you can't use it basically if you're physically impaired
So it's it's a bad idea. Fundamentally. Yeah, which
Well, he said it locks you out of a certain demographic to an extent it's just like I
So we shouldn't have like bikes or sports or you know, not that we shouldn't have those things are doomed to fail
Yeah
Fucking who who even rides a bike these days be honest. Nobody
Oh, this is this one. I can't remember if I showed this on efap yet, but it's important
It's a confirmation of law
It's true
And the fact that you started calling you added build on the end of other people's names what he refers to
What's amazing is that he probably doesn't have the cognitive function to really like understand why but he just does it
Because that's the whole point of his channel. He just sort of copies the other things other channels do
I just love the idea that he's got this many people called him total. He has no curiosity to find out why he's just like
He knows
I feel like he wouldn't acknowledge it
If he's an avid efap watcher, you never know
Um, but yeah molar asking how these words made it through the super chat
You have to like go through all of it to find out which one I might be referring to
Uh, this was an important piece of information that I think confirms a lot about our world
Looks like a fine establishment
The dawn is a plain man, he doesn't require like a lot of superficial nonsense
Where does everyone stand on the dawn? Um
You know being right or wrong and what he did and captain marvel being right or wrong and defending herself
Just I I remember this one this was yeah, I think it was we had us
Um
Are you sure what you're calling me fat nursing?
All right. Yeah, that's that's about yeah, that's about it. It was a conversation versus reality kind of relevant to today's
bring it up the thing, but yeah, we actually encourage the um
People to come on if they feel like we've misrepresented or whatever
we we do our best to try and make it civil but obviously people will hate it regardless because
Responding to people is just toxic. I mean dx uh tweeted and said that he had a great time on efap
So which one oh dx was the one that came on the latest right the latest one that we responded with me
That was yeah the last one that theo and I appeared on
We need to get the sausage doom guy on as a guest. I reckon seemed like fun
Sausage doom guy. That's how he's known. It is law. Also. Yeah, so
All the fucking this was actually kind of a deep reference
So the guy we covered on wisecrack kept referencing allen
People had a joke about how fucking sam deals is allen and dressing mark 3
Although the fucking velociraptor says it's not even his quote
allen
allen
Allen this is uh again the movie adaptation of eliath king of the monsters
Holy shit
three last of this captain ball
It was a jason boboah's schlogg as king leviathan
Oh my goodness a subjective movie. Oh my god. Think about how big it is
He was known as the for most of humanity's existence
Goliath was feared only thanks to the powers of the dawn goliath was kept in check
But now as tonald accidentally broke the artificial barrier of blockage new monsters like captain marvel swab earth
Its biggest most massive fear might now be their last chance of survival
Oh, so goliath's got to kill captain marvel before she can fuck everything up
Yeah, just like godzilla that makes enough sense to me
Well, I I really like the credits that they have there like on both the back
It was not enough focus
It has not enough focus on the monsters and the spaceship is a symbol for subjectivity
But from watch massive, why are we watching this spiderman is coming out from
Why indeed
Boxes productions presents an association with efap a subjective movie a film by total look featuring allen jason boboah
britad larson damn
Wow downward look mola rag is wolf pizza guy produced by the blessed pipeman
Yay, we did a thing
These are these are from southpaw as far as i'm aware by the way
Ah, yes a lego depiction
But don using a plank to be plank look at that that helpless captain marvel there
It had to be done there is another one
Fist the aids bus don her other I guess
Someone named it
Yeah
That's the influence we have we've made our way into minecraft, uh, this one's about j
This is jay and he's a film critic he can criticize movies like the lion king haven't seen it
He hasn't seen the lion king, but he's seen other things like black panther and captain marvel. What else have you seen?
Just those two things
I love it
I approve of this one. Oh, i'm the girl spiderman. That's the the big picture for the lego
Nice yeah, that's good. Hey, I like that horrible. Is that j riding the rhino?
Uh, yes, he's not blonde
Then what you put on a hat
Yes. Yeah. Well, I remembered seeing him as blonde in one video, but I might be remember
What's the oh is that frog is that is that
Yeah, wolf holding a box of pizza and the cosmic chicken and i'm off to his left
Look at this shit molly's a woman
A
Comic man good
The crow oh, yeah, this is an efap, but it's from a creator who does stuff for efap and it's just fucking great
so it's denarius is obviously
Raised king's landing and as a child is being obliterated. She's like free from tyrants
People like smoldering in the background. Yeah
So good, uh, this one is very relevant to recent efap re
We got uh, this is like the the levels of in which you become a gay you've got
A confederate general who's gay a gay f18 hornet a middle-aged lesbian. That's level 69 the ultimate
I guess I should be apex homosexual, but i'll take ultimate because that's what level 99 and then level infinity would be c3po
the gay robot butler
If you haven't seen that episode that's such a bizarre meme like what the fuck
This is um, actually a reference to fucking technically now old efap, uh suspicious dwarves
What the fuck what the fuck this guy makes terrifying drawings they're all they're all like creepy and but uh
Pretty well referenced. He made he made like a whole set of drawings for all the enemies of efap
This is just another one
It was suspicious amount of women and a huge dwarf. I believe and he's combined them
Suspicious amount of woman dwarfs
I guess a man of huge woman dwarfs. This will be my campaign poster when I run for the presidency. Oh, that's excellent
No, sweet emperor of the of the world. Yeah, he's done this god. I might do that. Yeah
And some more fan art
I like that if that was drawn in a handy notebook
Yeah
Uh
I almost never realized what's coming next on my collection. Even though I made it myself like I put it together. I mean
Looks like a lesbian
The ultimate criticism shit
And this I assume this was not actually custom made it's just a coincidence that they taking a photo of i'd be fucking shocked but uh
Like yeah, I would guess back as soon as kind of similar. I don't know psa mauler. Oh, yeah
Whoever doesn't know the context gonna stop fighting a lot of white. Why is there so many references to tywin laddis to be gay?
Got daddy devito and lauris terrell in homosexual just the name of it, I guess
homosexual
One of the better productions come out of hollywood. Have you seen this jay? It's a really important piece of work
I think that exposes a lot about you. Oh
I tweeted that
Here to explain yourself, um, I am himla
Uh reincarnated told me you know what himla did
Uh, yes, i'm aware of that. Yes, your feet films your feet films. Yeah
It's probably seen more than two
Phantom monday
Still making it. Oh, I forgot about my dear. Yeah
That goes all the way back to the the geeks of gamers and uh, will class bullshit is guessing. I don't know which number that was but
Theater robert recall that the specific mythological figure luke skywalker resembles the most
Bell says oh my god, calm down rags. I don't know. It means we'll get through it real quick
You can't defeat me. All right, fine. We're gonna go back. We're doing this. We're doing this. I hate bob videos
They're so fucking hard to follow. I'm gonna lower it to
basically
The unexpected way to defeat movie bob was to actually slow his video down
Instead of speeding it up because speeding it up would typically be the actual expected thing
But yeah, it's actually pretty clever the the meme because the unexpected way to defeat the enemy
I love theater robert theater robert
This is goliath I believe uh
Another artist rendition you see a lot of these because goliath is very elusive. That's so mad
No one's ever actually seen goliath. These are all just
Renditions in shadows often
He is a shadow
So I believe
That is goliath the bottom left
Food manga I there's some kind of collection of possibly all hosts in one gas myself
It's objectively subjective that I have slayed goliath. See this is just like a fan-made content because to slay goliath is pretty complicated
I don't know if that would ever happen. Yeah. No, I like this one
It's cool in simplicity and yet how recognizable each of the peoples are
Even drinkers in there that's really good
I love it
Don looking good
His map i'm glad he got the map at the end. I guess is the important part
Is that really what he was after I don't know I like to think that it brought him some peace
This one is quinton and that's his unibrow
The most vital part of his body quincel's unibrow is his main source of both life and power it
Is lower forms quincel's unibrow is weak barely even counting as a unibrow thus quincel would often rely on his allies to take most
Of the blows for him while he slipped away and looked for a pit look for openings
I was gonna read that look for opinions
How everybody reached his final form he was fully capable of fighting off even mauler and wolf at his unibrow provided him amazing offense and defense
um
Yeah, I don't know if i'm gonna be able to get away with i'm trying to go through these at a decent pace so that I
Get to all of them and the critical drinker doesn't lose his mind
Too late. I was gonna say but it's an excellent piece of artwork
This is the uh, the alternate universe where all of the wonderful rogues gallery of efap are running um a different kind of show
Oh, I love it
It's called efap every frame of theme I like how there's no comments in the fucking live chat
You know
I honestly think that'd be great if he actually did this and then you guys could could uh efap one of their streams
I love joseph anderson getting looped into all of it
They should ironically do it. It would work out well for them
uh
For us be good
This meme implies that me and rags could be defeated by movie bob
I think that you people seriously underestimate our ability to handle people's bullshit
Yep, me and rags been doing this for a long time. We appreciate the fact that they've warped the door to me
He's so fat
Oh
His fatness is creating some kind of a gravity
But he's also dense that's beautiful
He is full of it bilbo roberto
This is film robert
She'll name possible dial pretty neat. Oh, that's good. I am the longman
Looks like if you did, uh an album cover
I think and this is I think this is me chasing tonald. Um
He's running on my arm stretch around the whole forest arguably
And then I guess a rags reference this was while I was in a live chat, I think he was drawing these
That's not too bad though
It's a rush draw is not so bad. Can't draw dogs. That's we we know that it is a dog
We can identify it's a dog. So you did a good job
Yeah, it's fucking sweet
Alan demand's only middle
The middles consuming everything
Oh god thoughts have a hit like a stake into a face. Let's get a hit
The the comic book that I guess none of us really owns just one of those really rare ones
The efap comics book the cosmic chicken in his eternal intergalactic interdimensional battle with goliath
the two elm
Only 40 cents back when it was released. That's a rare comic now
It's better than most of what marvel's putting out these days. Oh, yeah
I'd read that in a hobby over what marvel's better than most of us being put out by anything
I love the style of this drawing. It's super fucking cool
This is shit, this is objectively shit a poor adaptation of goliath shit, however, I reckon we've been ripped off
Yeah, I like the style that's very dark
That looks really cool. This is wolf made a reference to how being him would be like two ends of a dog
Oh my goodness, how awesome is that drawing though?
That's really cool. That's great. I love that. That looks great. I love his purple nose. Yeah
There's a there's a third version with u rags, but it's not in this selection. It'll be in the second half
I like how you're here. You're you have feet like with shoes on
But there is a rags drawing
Oh my
Can we show this I mean it's just a guy there's nothing actually it is
I feel like I shouldn't look at it, but I can't look away
Yeah, I get that. I get that this better not awaken anything in me
This is me and vox is hanging out I get
Oh, but you know a different style different different universe
I like that my gas mask makes it in molar chin
It is one of your signature sort of you know things that's true
And there are three of these this one only has the wolf version, but it's it's awesome
I meant to put them together, but I screwed it up
Hello all my inwards
It's like the the efap logo for him there's ones for me rags and I think it's just us three I can't remember but yeah
So much art to go through I was gonna I split it over to two halves
We've got a whole bunch of videos to go through as well, but um, I figure that uh
I don't know how to pace it out. You know, I don't how am I supposed to know what exactly we're supposed to do at
What times i'm not a genius
Let your heart guide you molar
Well in that case we've nearly hit the eight hour mark meaning the one third of of uh a beef app
So if you guys just want to chill for 16 minutes, how's that? How's that fancy you?
That sounds great. Sure
Uh critical drinker. What do you think about the sony spider-man disney tisms?
I'm so excited about it. Yeah, you see there's like a freedom for spider-man
There was a great meme going around just yesterday
I think it's where they they sort of photoshopped the sony logo onto um
William dafoe's face from the first spider-man movie and it's like, you know, i'm something of a dumb. Fuck myself
Yeah, obviously because like I got it broken down as to who did what it seems to be that disney
Just didn't need to request what they requested. Why are they doing this? It seems to me my position
I just be like guys you're making shit tons of money. You don't need to push
The you know, they had uh a good rhythm going with spider-man
They they obviously had some a good actor playing him. They'd slotted him quite well into the mcu and
Yeah to to have everything fall apart at this point when he's really just finding his feet and
Probably could have been the centerpiece of the mcu going forward
Uh, it just seems bonkers really yeah, because if someone was to argue, right that um, yeah
But they wanted what's the point in them having spider-man if they can kind of more of uh, the selection of profits
I'd be like yeah, but the fact that spider-man is going to be in an avengers film will be enough for some people to go see it
Exactly, so they really probably should because from from what I understood of the stories they walked away after disony were like no
Like they could have said okay
Half of that and then sony could have been like no and they're like, okay half of that
But then I don't know whose sources from what but yeah
Disney's already like making a ton of money off of the merchandise. Like they will make more money off of the merchandise alone box office returns
So this is just greedy of disney. I'm i'm actually like i'm
I think that this is disney basically trying to strong arm sony for once. I don't think that's so many fucked up here
I might have I might have the information wrong. I might have the facts wrong, but
um from what i've heard it sounds like disney is basically just uh getting extra greedy and
All the money that they're making off of the merchandise alone is not enough to satisfy them and I think that's bullshit
yeah, and and
That's that's kind of where i'm at. If if it was any other company trying to be like hey, man
Can't we just share it 50 50? It might make more sense. But it's like it's disney, man
They own everything
Do you have to own more of spider-man? Do you even need it? You have all the rights to him in every other environment except the movies
I don't know. It seems weird. And this is the other thing is that we weren't there for the negotiation
We don't know every detail
Down to a t so maybe there was more to it
Um, but it does seem to be that sony aren't the bad guys in this one
Um, a lot of people immediately reacted with saying sony suck or marble disney suck or both of them suck or neither of them suck
I think you know, one of the big effects I guess for me personally is like i'm just even less enthused about phase four now
um
When I look at the lineup of characters that they've still got who is excited for captain marble too
Even though that's not even in phase four. I'm excited to see it
I am ironically excited for it. I'm excited to review it
If if the don could become if he can take stanley's place as the guy that gets to cameo on movies
I will be happy. What about uh, what about love and thunder? How's everyone feeling about that?
I was so excited by that
I'm seeing valkyrie as king of fast guard. Perfect. Um
I mean, we know it so well as a leader that it made a lot of sense to me, you know
Yeah
nothing screams power and um sheer
You know presence like natalie portman
Well, it makes sense right because you have cap who's like built up this this whole shit through all the movies
And so the payoff of picking up the hammer was huge
And then you have here who apparently is gonna become how's where is mjolnir in any way?
You know what? They tapped it because they returned it to its date. It's you know reality, um at the end of endgame
Didn't they? Yeah, so I guess I'm just gonna lift stormbreaker then
There is well this thing there is no mjolnir in in the current timeline
At least it will it's in pieces. Is she gonna can you can you forge another one or is?
I don't really know the lore behind it
Maybe because that one's dead. Maybe someone will repair it magically
Valkyrie's arc that's captain marvel
Valkyrie's arc in endgame is she basically
Helps take charge at new as guard off screen for five years while four fucks off in his cabin and
now she gets to
Roll out his guard while he went through like at least three movies of development arguably more if you include his avengers appearances
And he's giving up on on doing that
I love that. She just so he's giving up. Yeah, he's giving up his kind of
Royal title in his birthright and now it seems like he's going to be giving up even his name
He's not even going to be the god of thunder anymore. So
What exactly is he?
after all this yeah
And so his it's like he's been split up into two
Different female characters who haven't earned anything that he had to
Kind of weird does get the old noggin jogging
I mean i'll still give it a shot. Let's let's see what actually comes out about it
But i'm liking what i'm hearing about. So yeah, um similar mind to southpaw. I guess
Is there any so like the the what about the disney service? Is everybody gonna be grabbing that?
I'm getting a bit tired of so many streaming services. Yeah, it's really fragmenting now
It used to be like, you know, you got netflix you were pretty much sorted
You know now there's amazon's like prime you've got um, youtube's got their own streaming service now disney
You're getting fired into the market. Like it's it's too much man, man
You want that youtube streaming service for all of those great youtube originals?
The only one i've watched on it is cobra kai
Is that youtube original?
Yeah, it was on youtube red. I think
So wow. Yeah, i'm pretty sure they produce it with disney plus i'm gonna wait until like all
original stuff that i'm
somewhat interested in like falcon and winter soldier and the
Show to come out and if they're like really good, then i'll do like their
Week long free trial and then not actually subscribe
Yeah, just blessed it i'm just gonna wait for all of those shows to come out and then
Like doing nothing but watching those shows and i'm not actually gonna subscribe though
I think i'm gonna i'm gonna piece out now. Wow. Jay. We're just nine minutes from stopping ourselves
slisms
Sleep flimsy is terrible. Everyone hates jay
I project my hate to you jay. Don't go jay. You're gonna you're gonna return to us once you've awoken jay
It is a possible
Excitisms
Yeah, I uh, I think i'm gonna go on here say like if I don't think i'm gonna
Go out of my way to watch pretty much anything on disney streaming until someone says oh that that captain falcon winter soldier show is
Actually pretty good. I'll be like
Yeah, like it's got it's gonna have zemo in it. I'm kind of curious to see if that'll actually be handled well
Yeah, I think they were they were talking about lining him up more with his comic book kind of persona
You know with the mask and everything which these are good. He has power to a degree right beyond a human being in in the comics
Right. Oh, no. I mean I just want to see where he is. I just want to see what has emo after so
Yeah
I I just think that all the films are kind of fucked going forward with the snap
Like they they have to be criticized for the handling of the snap when it's really end game's fault
Yeah, it's a shame
Because it's kind of like a fucking three movie arc like dealing with the snap
It would take ages to go through all of the elements of the world to get fucked because of it
I think they'll probably they'll probably try and move that pasta as quickly as possible
Yeah, yeah, it's just gonna drag them down for just like it's fine moving on
Really? Everyone's reordered their lives. It's no problem
honestly hearing about what um
What's happened with spider-man? Uh, i'm happy with just saying that the mcu basically officially ends
Right as the end credits of spider-man far from home begins
like I yeah, I like the jk simmons cameo a lot, but it's um
It ends on a major cliffhanger that's never going to get resolved now unless there's a an 11th hour
Well, they've planned another two spider-man movies with tom holland. So i'm assuming they're just going to carry on
They're just not going to reference the mcu at all
Okay, but I mean it would still technically take place in the mcu, right? Well, this is the interesting part. They apparently are considering
Joining him into the venom universe in which case does that mean venom has always been in the mcu?
I'm ready for that. I know right it's gonna be so bad
Don't be great. So yeah, uh not looking good overall for phase four
Also, the only one that's piqued my interest is the dr. Strange with wander horror sort of movie i'm like that sounds
interesting
A horror movie produced by disney though. I mean, I can't really see it being terribly horrific
I mean if you had said that infinitesimal was going to be a sort of dark movie like produced by disney though
I'd be like, yeah, we still got you know, some dark shit in there. Everybody don't want
I don't want woody harrelson's carrot top wig to be canon the mcu
Well, this is the thing in terms of tainting the mcu
It's not like we haven't had terrible films in the mcu. Anyway adding them in there is like it's it was better than captain marvel, right?
Venom was better than right. Yeah, it's definitely a lot more enjoyable
It was just a movie where stuff happened like I don't even it never really made an impression on me venom
I just kind of watched it thinking. Yeah, this is kind of fun. And and that was kind of it like
yeah, and I didn't really come away from it with any big impressions of of
The the villain or you know the even the venom character, I guess
It's terrible and we'll have to deal with the mcu probably crashing and burning. I think it's more than likely at this point
Spider-man spider-man was one of the bigger reasons. I was going to be watching the mcu go forward. I was like he's not at it
You're like, oh
Yeah, we've got the eternals. I feel like they did their end game thing maybe too soon
Because if they want the universe to continue after that, they need a torch pass, right?
And their only torch pass at that point is spidey
Yeah, well it leaves us with captain marvel question mark. He's our iron man now
We've got black panther as well. I guess
The problem with all these characters they're so isolated like iron man was
interconnected
We need like set up enough. I would say we've almost reached a film each
Yeah, we've almost reset the cool thing about the the mcu when it started was that as soon as we understand these characters
They're thrust into a position that forces them to meet each other and you'd be like, oh well
They can do that again. I don't think that's what they're doing
Seems to be they're all doing their own films again
Well whenever you know
One of the other characters have got a solo movie captain marvel is just gonna have to keep zipping in and out like oh
I have another planet
I have to go save because i'm totally overpowered for whatever situation you're in imagine being the guy who has to write that like
Oh, you're like, all right
Like sequel to captain maul write the avengers number five with captain marvel being involved. You're like, how the fuck?
I would I would basically
Introduce some substance. That's basically her kryptonite. Yeah, I think you'd have to she's got
I hate that solution, but at the very least it would maybe take away her power of total invulnerability like it's okay for her to
Be capable of blowing up ships
But the fact that you can't do any damage to her like she just tanks a headbutt from Thanos without even flinching
Yeah, that's got to go if there's if there's one thing
If there's only one power of hers that you can that you have to take away
It's that one make her like a glass cannon, but um, that's essentially what bonda is
Yeah, yeah, exactly. So like don't have her be useless
But yeah, take away her invulnerability you love that by the way
Like the the whole idea is like it's it's that she's a woman. It's like there's plenty of women
We like it's that she's a strong woman. It's like bond is amazing. It's like it's
Could it be that she's just really awful
She's the most bizarre
Sorry, no, it's like this character's really poorly written. Why do you hate women?
Excuse me
Yeah, you could take you could play like an intellectual
Like exercise for writing on this one
It's like just take our character of any gender with all her powers and abilities
Okay, and then try to write a good story around it where that character is challenged in any way
My my only
I'm, sorry
Um, my only other solution for the captain marvel issue is actually having her transform into a villain
I feel like you have enough to do much transforming honestly. Yeah, exactly. Well, I mean the idea of her actually working against
uh
Good like she's
She's an agent of good, but she's not a good person herself if you get what i'm what i'm saying here
well, even if she became uh
You know conflicted on this like um, like dr
Manhattan and the watchman where he almost moves beyond human concerns because
You know, he's got such power and his mind's kind of elevated to that different level
Like humanity almost becomes inconsequential make maybe captain marvel could go down that route
Yeah. Yeah, I I agree
And with that I was gonna say we're pretty much almost there
Um, the idea is that we're splitting the streams into eight hour pieces and luckily with this one
I can pretty much end on the mark
uh, we will return in I want to be as quick as like 10 minutes at most just to make sure that they
Separate out the parts that we don't fuck up the cap on youtube. Yeah, that's one third completed. Uh,
There's 24 hour escapade. Well done gentlemen. We will worth these. Yeah, you feeling
I'm fine right now. I I said to rags the first third will be easy
The second third will end a bit tismy in terms of tiredness. The third one's gonna be hard
Um, I just got to keep playing videos of people saying things like I don't know just stupid things
Please give us a video to tear into yeah
I wouldn't mind e-fapping with uh critical drinker
I mean, yeah
Oh, is it gonna resist any video games or philosophies?
Oh, i've got there. There are videos planned ahead. Like I said shad will be popping in
Probably halfway through part stream two if you will
I don't know there's a lot of potential guests and i'm basically just running it on who's who's available
Who's around who pokes me on different things like who's obviously previously guessed it?
um
So we will see more things and more stuff and obviously superchats will be read memes will be looked at
I just got to figure out when and where exactly to um to do them. So, uh,
This was essentially a full stream of just responding to content. So we'll figure out what we're doing. Uh,
Thank you all for watching. That was the first eight hours. We will be right back
Bye guys. Say goodbye. Goodbye. Uh, hello
