you are a bad man also i am going live now
bad man bad bad man bad you're a bad man
bad man long oh wait that's such a good
thing have you played metro exodus
metro metro mess and destiny wolf oh should i wait for more people to get
in so i mean they'll see in the archive either way right well yeah
but i mean this is assuming because i mean
some of the live audience i imagine probably won't bother watching the
archive so we should give him a couple minutes i
have many a game to report on anyway so what are we going to talk about
i don't know waller what do you want to talk about today
uh brute in general
vert brute yeah that's totally what i said
root i am fruit oh oh you know what we never actually did
even though cj guess did after the time we made this thing i believe we're just
really bad with this or i'm really bad with this
but uh having all the guests choose who they think will be the uh
the most inconsistent character of episode nine we never did it with cj but
now we can do it um i'll have you know your fellow podcast
members uh boxers voted for poe and snacks voted for fin as the character
that would be most inconsistent uh you're not allowed to pick lando or
kylo because they're both the obvious choices
um
the most inconsistent character in episode nine yeah which one do you think
will be the one that's written in such a way that you'll be like what the hell
well i mean they can't well they can't make
i've even forgotten her name now this is how much i've erased from my memory
ray yeah they can't make her any more of a mary sue so they can't
they can't disappoint me there what if what if they kill you would that be the
ultimate inconsistency i feel like
they've already shit all over post character black
i just pretend like nothing ever happened she's just
a black woman now yeah trans black woman more points just like oh god who's
that person who's that woman who like was really
really white and she was like no i'm trans black
and then people found like pictures of her parents and they were like
when she was white yeah like i remember black whatever right that was yeah i
remember she was talking about how star wars was racist because darth vader was
actually james or old jones and it's like no james or old jones was the voice
actor he wasn't actually the face of darth vader
and she was making the argument that he turns white to when he accepts luke as
his son and it was like what are you talking about oh that well if any if no
like darth vader was always white and the uh the actual the guy that portrayed
him in the suit he's the one that got screwed over
yeah because he was played by you know guy david pratt yeah david pratt he was
huge but apparently he has a really thick accent
so they wouldn't let him they wouldn't let him do darth vader's voice when his
helmet came off so they replaced him he was a bit pissed off about that
um he was also pissed off because they dubbed his voice right in episode four
yeah because it was embarrassing he had the original voice but it just sounded
really awkward if you listen to it and so they just dubbed it over
and they didn't tell him as well as far as i know until he saw it in cinemas
brutal uh but it's rachel de la de laizle
oh rachel dole's all dole's oh that's her name yeah okay
oh dear i just remember her being like really trans and mentally stupid
i literally just typed in trans racial woman into google
and the second result was this news article which is
rachel de laizle trans racial woman's son resents her choices
oh dear okay um wonderful um so what's your choice then cj
uh i'm gonna go with poe what's your reasons only in the sense they've
already shit all over his character enough
um and reduced him to basically a laughing stock and i feel like they're
going to use him when they need to and then shit all over him when they need
to do that as well um i don't have any complex reasoning for
this really because i haven't given too much thought to the last jedi
kind of purged it oh it's not my memory it's interesting because
poe now has the most votes actually hmm maybe it's just maybe it's just
because of the way he was treated in the last film
well you know like taking like the element of him that was sure
and then saying oh it's his floor now okay
the thing that made him a good character and saying no this makes him bad
or just him acting correctly throughout the entire
him acting correctly throughout the entire film but the film insisting no
listen to these women who are perfect who are completely right and flawless and
stunning and brave i'm assuming we'd all agree right like the most inconsistent
character episode eight would probably be luke
i think so yeah even though yeah contenders it would be luke
because i'm curious if we'll actually even agree once episode nine comes out
i wonder if we'll actually come to a consensus on who's the most broken
character i feel like it's going to be lando
because no matter what they do with them it's going to be inconsistent
because if they if they go with the solo lando
then it's already going to be contradicting the original trilogy
imagine if you go with the original trilogy then they contradict solo
imagine they make him like the wise obi-wan character he's like oh god
who must do this he'd want to do it he's like what the fuck
but if you can use the force in the next movie
absolutely that's just normal now remember everyone can do it
is uh is leah going to be in this one yeah just uh all the footage is old so i
don't exactly know how they're gonna generate dialogue they probably get an
impressionist to do a couple lines surely maybe like she turns around and
then she says like really important plot related things and then she turns
back around and goes hello
god it's gonna be so bad i thought it would be wise to show this on stream it
was made between ephaps it's a rendition of the idea of jared's head
being used as a a nest or flying animals another one
no this is the same one um oh okay but just it's just still super impressive
it's amazing it really is amazing i just love the idea
that someone took the time out of their day
just because we made a joke on a five hour podcast that lasted maybe six or
seven seconds to draw jared and actually make his
hair a nest for flying fox bats
our audience is so they're amazing and they're
insane at the same time your fans your fans have so much time on their hands
but they're geniuses yeah it's like plus talent equals
beautiful things that mean that you showed me
of oh oh yeah don't spoil no spoils no we haven't shown it oh sorry
sorry and rags and wolf haven't seen it yet either
oh right sorry but it's amazing it's really amazing um is everybody in the
watch together as well we're not we're not jumping in just yet but i was just
making sure yes um i think i'm in yeah i think rags
isn't because he always actually has an icon
unlike the rest of us plebs uh i'm hearing a slight echo
you are let's go now let's go now it's fine
um but yeah i mean it's like with with we had an episode without
wolf uh which was just horrible because uh major lee was his replacement
and you know i thought i thought you were about to say i was his replacement
no um i was like trying to jokingly talk about how you know like the jared
appearance and the um the live debate with the person we
were covering and all the amazing memes made for a
great like season two finale so it's like season three episode one
is this like horrifying debate with uh major lee it's like i wasn't a huge
fan of the uh efap season three episode one
do they have the same writers or i can assure you we do
all the uh all the actors are back it's just that um
the the actor who plays wolf was uh injured on set and he couldn't record
episode one so they had to write him out people in the chat were even saying
bring on wolf bot um but yeah i thought i thought it went
well a lot of people thought it was like a bad episode because major lee was
trolling us but i don't think you could argue that he would have gotten away with
it because like we pulled him on so many of
his statements like it wasn't like he just said a
thing and we were just like that sounds fair moving on it's like no guys he's
tricky or anything you went back on a lot and i thought
it was amusing wait someone just said it's the pikeman is he in chat yeah foxes
is in the chat beautiful hello blessed pikeman
that came from that came from you guys didn't it
i want to describe this for you so we actually managed to get jared on the
show which was the greatest thing that has
ever happened to me in my entire life and
because foxes's uh profile picture has a pipe in it
apparently jared took it upon himself to call him
the pikeman and then he said that he was very blessed
and then he started calling him blessed pikeman
and then the whole chat got in on it and everyone started calling him blessed
pikeman and if you look in the comments section of any of his
most recent videos everyone's calling him the blessed pikeman
yep and poor foxes well yeah poor foxes is having like a mental breakdown
during that whole segment of the stream because he started getting spammed with
it you have to pray to my he's lonely he
loves the attention well i was actually gonna say that's it's just a perfect
lead-in so i'm gonna play it uh if you guys have watched together up
do you know that wrestling thing where it had
me and oh you're gonna play part two it's not part two it's something else
that he made and it's just perfect for what's
happening right now okay
it's good that uh the pikeman is here as well so he could enjoy this
oh no is it what i think it's gonna be
yes
the same
i like that Jared's a giant
this this is art you cannot objectively judge this
you're objectively wrong if you don't like this
oh god where are they gonna fight
oh i think it's just their introduction i just love the idea that you can
actually character create to this level where that
is totally boxes right there
the effect lore i guess there's instead of you know
the holy trinity there's just Jared and the holy pikeman
as soon as like well just before he was revealed i was like oh god
it's gonna be him
is as foxes said anything oh he's just smiley facing it's good that he's
gonna have to embrace this personality because it is here when you change the
name your channel to the holy pikeman
i'm watching some of his videos are really good some of his uh
some of his jokes are really make me laugh
you're very entertaining bad boxes oh yeah i should probably say that uh
by the way our guest today is cynical cj i forgot to i always forget to invite
get a announced guest because i don't know we're just all so chill he's been
here before so you guys should know and uh yes we
were just looking at one of his fellow podcasters
being immortalized into ephab law someone uh someone in the chat said when
rags became rags i was there when the rhino was milked by the psychic
spiders i was there when the pikeman was blessed i was
only in this show can you read those three sentences
it actually makes sense
uh so yeah um the plan for today we're going to check out a bunch of mean
videos because we've got a bunch ready um and then
we're going to be looking at marcus brown lee because that's
yeah because we still haven't done that on this show and that would be wonderful
and uh like i said the guest will be cj returning
uh because we still have a problem of trying to get people to return
while also trying to get new people and you know season three he was in season
two so you know you get like one guest per thing
that's how that works right twelve episodes per season
that's how he fap rolls but it was like a year has 12 months
it was 10 and 12 has 12 episodes season one was 10 episodes wasn't it and then
no wait no yeah because quinton the the season
one finale is when we talk to tro and we'll just have a 10
and then episode 24 was when we had jared on so that's obviously the ending
of season two yeah yeah so season one was 10 episodes
season two was 14 episodes the season three could be like 28
wait no 18 you're gonna have you're gonna have to you're gonna have to do a
breaking pad it did and split it into two parts because
there's just so many episodes yeah and this just season one part two we've got
so many like with so much foreshadowing and so many
setups to take care of like we got way too many characters in
our development for a lot of them really tough writing process we need to
resolve all those plot holes yep we've had plenty of complaints
about that you know like where exactly did the
pipe and get the uh the pipe from you know that's never explained
and why are they farming rhinos that's never explained to
we need to really get on the right end for this show it's fucking terrible
spin-off movie when the bible of jared's genesis
but the podcast a log of the movies
um but yeah uh so this is this video we've had for ages i never played it
because i always assumed it would get us
stricken down immediately there's still a small chance of that i'm just hoping
that it doesn't happen because i uploaded the video
in full on my channel and i didn't get any kind of claims or strikes which
should be good but it's i've shown rags and wolf ages ago but it'll be fun to
watch again because the editing is actually really flashy
remember it's called efap dance it's like a potential
it's looked at as like oh this could actually like work as an intro for um
the actual show whatever is this is it is this the seizure inducing one it is
yeah so this is going to be flashy so if there's anything you need to do to
avoid that go ahead and do it like even if it's
trigger warning that'll probably be worth it whatever happens to you will
probably be worth it all right so yeah here's the he's saying
that to someone being sold off to slavery whatever happens it'll be worth
it hey well i mean i don't know
people people will be saying they want to be like major league you got to see the
good in things yeah wolf slice and dice yeah
i want to cry oh yeah there we go
i love this one
oh
It may seem strange, but that video is literally a summation.
It's like seasons one and two, I believe, or like season one and a half, because CJ's
in there.
But there's lore in this.
The part I found interesting is where it shows the, um, where's it?
Wait for it.
Dude, the parallel you're drawing to academic work specifically regarding history, and
that's my area of expertise to Dio's comment from Joseph Anderson's video.
Remember we read it out and then we had him on.
Yeah.
That's what this is.
Oh man.
And look at the way it just goes like.
Rhino ghost, rhino butterfly milk, it's beautiful.
Kyle, Ben, Bilbo and bells.
I just want to draw attention to the fact that someone went out of their way to draw
a picture of Michael Sierra is Kylo.
Oh shit.
Did you see the one?
This is the last, uh, if that wolf, um, which one, the one basically right at one point,
do you remember this rags where major Lee said, uh, Kylo went bad when, when the sun
went down?
Yeah.
What he was referring to is when, uh, the sun is depleted in force awakens, you know,
and then, um, that's when, and then that moment, Kylo stabs Han Solo, the way he said it was
like, um, it just, I can't remember who said it to like a werewolf.
I said, he was like, I said he was like a vampire.
Yeah.
Oh God.
Did someone say kind of like that?
Oh God.
Please.
I haven't seen it.
Please show me.
I want to know.
Give me a sec.
I'm grabbing it.
I need to, I need to see this.
Um, yeah.
Well, once you said it, I was like, Kyle, bad as a vampire, I said, um, can't wait.
Oh my God.
Oh, I love our audience.
This is the best community ever.
I'm glad that our audience doesn't have like jobs or family.
Yeah.
Guys, stay the way you are.
Never get married.
Never have a family.
Never have an employed single and on your own jobs.
Oh my God, I love it.
Um, so the next one is, uh, I believe me and Wolf have seen this, uh, but it's worth watching
because we did the recent, uh, efap trailer reaction.
So in, in, I haven't seen this yet.
You're going to love it.
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wolf is such a badass.
He's one.
He works.
Yes.
The Wolf and the Swagini.
I mean, dude, I don't watch this movie.
Someone just commented that on that video and E-Man just happened to see it and he was
like working on it.
And I was like, Oh, you need Chara to fuck me.
Do you love the repeats and yo, yo, yo, yo, wait, wait.
It's repeated.
Yeah.
There's no way he says yo, yo, yo that many times.
Yeah.
Well, this is Jared.
We're talking about.
Hold on.
Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo,
yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo,
yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo.
This is.
This is going to be.
I guess it's a Target that's going to be known as the epache.
Boy.
Who, Jared?
Yeah.
I mean, apparently, that's the power to knock off channels from their main personalities
with even 50 K subs.
What's boxes up to is a key?
This is like a, yet blessed lens seems to have spawned the speaker.
That's actually a point as boxes had a name.
As Voxus had, and he liked people being like, what the fuck is this Blessed Pipeman bullshit?
Who are these people? Where did they come from?
He wasn't Will Smith, I couldn't tell the difference.
CJ, did you say that people commented Blessed Pipeman on your podcast?
Yeah, on podcasts and on streams and stuff, yeah.
That's the power of Jared. I had no idea he would be able to make so many people
hop onto that so quickly.
So this next one is nothing to do with us whatsoever. A friend of mine sent me it,
and it's really short, and I thought it was funny enough that I'm just going to play it here.
No context. I don't even really understand it myself, but it's amusing.
Oh, what is this?
I want every gun we have to fire on that man.
We're going to have to pause it for the audio, actually.
Hold on. Let's rewind this.
Do it.
Oh, that's hot.
That's hot.
Oh, man.
I would have actually given the Last Jedi a good review if that's what really happened.
Yeah, this next one, Rags has seen, but I actually think it's worthwhile.
Do you remember the inception of the future telling spiders that stream, that conversation?
He said something to the effect of, can spiders really tell the future,
and then Rags lost his mind.
So no consistency. The guy who does the animations, he's done a different take this
time around instead of like drawings, it's like pictures to represent what we're saying.
And let's just say it gets pretty amusing, but this is absolutely just another one of
those art forms that comes out of E-Fab meme hood. I don't know how to explain it.
It just happens, and it just works.
Can spiders actually do that?
Can spiders actually tell the future?
No, spiders can't fucking tell the future.
I don't think we can get that from.
What a stupid Spiderman can.
Spiderman can. Surely real spiders can.
Okay, Spiderman can't tell the future.
Look, if spiders could do that, then she'd walk.
All I'm saying is that spiders can probably tell the future.
No, no. All I'm saying is that, yeah, spiders can probably tell the future.
Probably, yeah.
If Spiderman can do it, clearly spiders can do it as well.
Well, it does follow.
Since when did Spiderman tell the future?
He can tell when something's been thrown at him before he's been thrown.
No, it's doing it being thrown.
So when you go to hit a spider, it goes, and it's just like, how did I do that so fast?
It's because that's your opinion.
That's your opinion.
Flies aren't really fucking long, ever.
Yeah, that's why I have so much trouble killing all the goddamn nazis.
Flies have very little mass, so they could take off like a shot,
and they have very fast reflexes.
People say the spider bill.
Also, they fly.
It's in the name.
People have hosted spiders at like Oracle.
Spiders of time.
Look, just imagine Saruman is a spider, and Gandalf's like, we can't use the Palantir.
Saruman shows up.
He's a giant fucking spider.
Well, yeah.
Well, she lobbed.
Clearly, she would have killed Frodo if she could use the...
She couldn't fucking tell the future.
She just...
Oh, wait, spoilers.
Sorry, Jay.
You'll see the film eventually.
Time spiders.
Oh, eventually.
I was zoned out for just a second there, so I missed that spoiler.
I was just collecting the fucking amounts with you.
Yes.
How many fucking...
Like, how is it that these people just have all these goddamn emos?
I know, ghosts, butterfly, milk, spiders.
Like, I didn't know there were these many emos on YouTube.
I still can't get over the idea.
Like, if science tried to study spiders and their ability to see the future.
I don't even...
Like, guys, we seriously need to fucking concentrate on stuff.
That was a fun conversation.
Good to see you, Jay.
Yeah, you know what I mean about the art forms for the memes?
They're evolving and going all different places.
And I've still got at least two left.
We'll save the Lord.
Now, the chests go on with the spider oracle time milk.
What does time milk taste like?
Time milk.
I don't know.
I guess it depends on how far back you go in time.
We got a movie one summer ago.
It's going to get pausing, but as you can tell, this is Age of Ultron.
So, let's go.
How can you possibly help this out, Nick?
Like the wolf said.
Together.
I'm surprised they didn't do the bark.
Yeah.
This is part of the shit that needed to be responded to and came to just,
fuck you, Quentin.
Where we managed to actually confirm that Quentin maliciously lied about Rags to make them
come across as saying something that he didn't.
It's like, that shit's inexcusable.
So, here's the thing.
I thought you're an idiot, Quentin.
Excellent.
Yes, my expectations were subverted.
It's like you could just watch them in a theater.
You can just watch them all on the other piece.
Like, yep.
Beautiful.
These things stack up.
It took too long to get some of these.
There's some people out there who are like, why haven't you looked at this one yet?
It's like, there's lots.
So many.
This one has been shown for ages.
I don't know if you guys have heard this one, which is the literal, like the clone wars,
but with the Efab lore pasted onto it.
I've seen like the first 10 seconds and then it was like, no, I got away.
I don't want my expectations to be subverted.
This one's got some intense editing as well.
Again, just appreciation out the wazoo.
But we got, I haven't seen whatever.
So this is from, but the thing is like fucking CIS is everywhere.
And they've got like a ring of Republic ships and then the good guys in the center of it.
Obviously.
Not good.
The bug is putting up.
Reporting is on.
It's like the characters.
And yeah, I'm going to have to pause at least every like eight seconds or so.
Free.
It's not enough to just be like, I know that one.
Movies aren't about logic.
They're not.
They're not proofs.
They're not puzzles.
I always get the fun missions.
Oh, this isn't the fun part.
Getting back to the square is the fun part.
Yeah, I remember my first week on the internet.
I'm glad to see you.
That got the general.
Eighties, six thirty six lay down.
Come on, five point three five.
I don't know how I'm not going to get copyright claim, but we're trying.
This is like practically playing the episode, but with the based on it.
You found pretty much a weird grape.
Pretty much nothing too serious.
What's the situation here?
We've got no air cover.
Two generals on the ground beyond opposition and a mess of bugs surrounding us.
The enemy was more than prepared for our attacks, so they knew our every move.
I'm sure General Skywalker and General Mundi will make it to opposition.
We just have to make sure.
Oh, God, please tell me anything.
I call him remember what the reveals are, but I'm a buddy.
Jeredi, buddy.
You're watching movies wrong.
Hold on, wait, wait, wait, hold on.
Was that Elijah Wood and Spike kids three?
Have a look.
Still here when they arrive here watching movies wrong.
Oh, it is.
I don't know whose icon that is.
That's probably one of the these one.
Yeah, he's one of the clones, right?
Let me if I go to your discord, let me see, because I don't recognize that icon.
And yeah, he's like the number one player.
It's like it's 3D.
I think it is, right?
It's sad that I don't know the character, but who whose icon it is.
All I remember is he has 99 lives and they all get drained.
I think that movie came out in the same year as Return of the King as well.
So it's like, Elijah, what happened?
How did you go from like the best movie ever made to Spike kids 3?
Spike kids 3D is amazing.
It's the best movie ever.
Yeah, I think these are discord peeps.
No, it was intended for children.
A nuanced little centrist boy.
Read a real monster.
Just writes catchphrase.
It's amazing.
Oh, good thing we saved Fringy.
Oh, yeah.
So here's the thing.
I fucking hate Trump.
I love how Ryan Johnson just keeps appearing in the background.
Oh, yeah.
I just love the idea that all of our enemies are just ugly bug people.
It's it's it's not a commentary on the character.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
Oh, well, what happened to you?
I might ask you the same question.
Oh, God, does he not recommend subscribing to Jared Genesis?
Oh, you don't want to turn down that music.
It'll probably get copyright claimed.
Oh, well, it might be too late for that then.
I think for once I'm the one that's behind on the watch together.
As long as it lets the video stay up, we'll be okay.
But at worst, I'll have to cut it out in post or whatever.
Okay, someone said General Queer.
But then they put it like in the background sounding as well as like, oh, my God.
So many.
I don't know if you guys notice this, but yeah, cynic snacks recently recently reached 69 69
subs. Oh, oh, good, good, good.
Don't get any more subs.
What's the significance of that number?
Yeah, what can you explain it to us?
Me.
You're asking the wrong guy.
I don't understand.
Yeah, I don't get it.
Is there a meme there?
Yes, you explain it in this is this is something you need to talk over with your parents.
Okay.
Yeah.
Control in a comfortable environment.
I kind of like too comfortable.
I hope I should probably save it for like the next eFap.
But I really want to show them the one that you've seen.
It's just it's just it's fucking good.
It's really good.
It might come at the cost of being like, you know, less memes next time.
But I just that well, now that you keep teasing it, now I need to see it.
It's just I don't know how this is going to work as well.
I'm going to do loads of pausing, which is going to kind of be annoying.
But hopefully maybe I can just like, I think after.
Well, you tried the pausing one on the the Darth Vader meme and it still got claimed.
Oh, yeah, that's because of the music as well.
It really fucking likes music, YouTube visuals.
It's like pretty consistent on with the whole nine, ten second thing.
But music can be like three seconds or even two.
And it'll be like less.
Yeah, this one.
This one's got a song in the background.
And that's a problem depending on what song it is.
Depends on like this stream could literally go down if we're not careful
because I don't every song has different rules for the copyright.
Right.
Like it'll be like it'll monetize it or it'll just get ready a video.
This one's just like so good that it has to be shown.
Do live audio.
Why is Monday, Matt?
Oh, oh, it's everyone horrible.
It's everyone horrible.
Who's the one to your left?
That's Hbomberguy.
That doesn't look anything like him.
There's so many details in this one that it's just incredible.
But wait, I forgot.
Is Hbomberguy the guy that looks like the rat person from Harry Potter?
Oh, OK.
I couldn't remember his name.
I was about to say Wormtongue, but that's not him.
Wormtail, isn't it?
Wormtail.
OK.
Yeah, I go.
Joseph Anderson, no joke, looks exactly the same as Wormtail
to every one of the chat that doesn't already know that.
So I'm just going to play this for a second so you can recognize something.
So get health back.
You see the fact that all of those are moving.
Yeah.
Do you understand that means?
No, because we pause too much.
You only need one second to tell.
I know you can also get it.
You see it?
The fact that they're all moving.
Oh, OK.
Now I know what movie this is.
Oh, that's not the important.
The point is they're all moving in different directions,
which means he had an individual layer for every single one of these in timeline,
which that's already just like, what the fuck are you doing?
Because it's going to take an extremely long and hard amount of work.
But the different sizes too.
Yeah.
So it's going to be Samuel L. Jackson, do you think?
Oh, that's not in it.
He's edited it.
So it's just the fight scene and he has one cut away,
but it's not Samuel L. Jackson.
It's something else.
Jared.
Yeah, I guess I'll just try and play it in like six to eight second increments.
You can also get health back by using a humanity,
but doing that burns such a rare resource that I couldn't really regard it as a source.
And just to clarify, have you guys seen this movie?
Yes.
And I unfortunately watch the sequel.
I have.
Yes, I've seen.
I've seen the scene.
Yeah.
I can love this scene in the back.
Well, I have to point out.
Sorry.
I got to get this pause right for the people.
He's got a bald spot on the picture.
The person who drew this whole thing up.
They drew a backwards vision.
I can't believe it.
My goodness.
Oh man, that's a lot of effort to put a bald spot on him.
For anybody who doesn't know, this is Kingsman, The Secret Service.
Oh, I think that's what it's called.
It's the first Kingsman film.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The only good one.
All right.
Allow to disagree with his opinion.
Well, I don't know if you guys have noticed,
but the video essay crowd is getting bloated with awful content creators.
ABG has such objective opinion pieces do not exist.
Don't worry though, Joseph.
I remember my first video review too.
How fucking dare you!
But like already, we've already killed like downward thrust.
Joseph Addison has been thrown off.
I think he comes back later.
You've got an alien colonial race and task.
Yes, I can't do it well service on this because I can't pause it for all of us
accurately, only for me.
Like it'll only show the frames,
but some of these jokes are literally on the screen
for like a split second.
I'm not mad.
Okay.
Hi.
What the fuck, man?
This is called.
Doesn't affect my enjoyment of the film.
It's subjective.
Try again.
Why is the basic atheist in there?
God, is he?
Yeah, I just saw his icon.
Let me go back.
Where was he?
He was to the right.
Oh, he's attacking Steven Crowder.
Oh, he's fighting Steven Crowder.
Okay, there's a few of those.
We're gonna have to look out for him.
Some of them are really funny.
That's hilarious.
Try again.
And we've got.
Can you see that in the background?
Jack saying is fighting at MPC.
And it's important to note that since it gets tackled and thrown away,
and I go, what the hell?
Like, he's not killed.
Yeah, go.
Regardless.
They even drew a back for you.
Yeah, yeah, it's a custom back.
That's not been used before.
It's usually all black.
Not lose their distance.
This is sort of a word is being described as what actually happened.
Also, this planet manages to slip the fit.
You got pop culture to destiny.
Yeah.
Destiny's, Destiny's fighting Sargon.
I think he wants the camera pans.
You can see it.
I'm not 100% sure who the one to the left of Lee is.
I know it.
Oh, oh, is Lee the red one?
Yeah.
Yeah, he was.
Here's the one to the right.
No, wait.
So in the center of the screen is pop culture detective to the right of that.
I don't know.
And to the right of that is Lee.
Well, there's someone to the right of Lee and like some night.
Oh, it's doing cost.
Oh, okay.
I don't know who the one to the left is, though.
Oh, Chad saying that's Sarah Z, the girl.
Oh, oh, the fly girl.
Got it.
Fly girl.
Somehow.
Yeah, there you go.
Sargon and destiny.
If I wouldn't be a problem.
If not for the fact that these gorilla walkers have decided to fly.
Oh, she's killing the fly.
Stop that right now.
I'm telling you to stop it.
Brilliant.
There's Dunkey fighting John.
Yeah.
The Jared.
Oh, Jared's about to tackle me.
He should not have done it.
Right.
So this is where it gets a little bit confusing.
We pulled out in better.
It's better.
Fucking taking out Monday, Matt.
The chat says we need more boobs down with thrust as a tism.
Did you guys see Quinton gun gun?
That's not the issue here.
You can take any set of statistics and cherry pick it out.
Come that proves your original statement.
Try again.
I don't know if this is like a real chat or not.
More anime.
Why is it just me and regs?
Oh, well, you'll see now.
Oh, okay.
You got I FAP free FAP in the free spare glass.
You got ER is lost on the milk because he couldn't come on.
He found it's it's just dripping with law.
Oh, my God.
This is amazing.
All those bad movies in the background that as well.
And all the ones that he he drew all this.
This is insane.
Yeah.
Then these versions of you guys.
This is original, right?
I don't think this comes from Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
This is all original.
Yeah.
I would I would kill myself if I made content like this.
Human trait helps you survive an environment that
I think that's a looper looper.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, we got themes coming in.
Shrek for fuck's sake.
What the fuck are you?
Moving on.
Fazbear's down had Kylo Kylo.
Oh, no.
Sorry.
We just have the same old Kylo.
We always have.
What the hell?
Oh, God.
The Shinobi and Oh, Shinobi's killing nostalgia critic.
Yeah, that doesn't make sense.
It can't.
No, he hates nostalgia critic.
I thought he made videos about nostalgia critic.
Yeah, that's the point.
He's killing him.
And then I think it was the whole because Greedo said debating out is stupid.
Oh, right.
And I've got debating out is like a flame in his face.
Then you got tax and try to shoot me in his Greedo, I guess.
Okay.
Okay.
I might need to pull it back again.
Look at what Jackson is fighting the picture for two seconds.
See that he's fighting.
Your movie sucks.
Who?
No, no, no, no.
Why miss was in there.
But he's fighting.
I'll get it.
You guys.
It's some weird wolf.
Have you got I've only got one I missed on the screen.
Have you got you guys got my stream up because I've got the right frame.
Yeah, I got it.
It's showing all I see.
I don't know what that is, though.
Now it's changed.
Oh, the it's it's a straw man of wolf.
Oh, I see it.
I see it.
Yeah, the literal straw man.
He's fighting.
Oh, that's actually fucking beautiful.
Wow.
That's incredible.
And then you've got yeah, he's fighting a different version.
This is straw man rags now.
I think it says rags on there.
You've got Poe and Holdo fighting each other.
Some of it should be nearly impossible.
Keeps it interesting.
So just right stabbed me with subjectivity.
Pulled the knife out and put it back in with objectivity.
But listen to what he says and what I say.
It's just funny the way he edited this.
Keeps it interesting.
They're still subjective.
Why?
I think this guy's dead.
Oh, classic.
I think this guy's dead.
Now I know it seems impossible to watch movies wrong.
Nothing to offer.
But they're wrong fringe.
And now this is this one is a little bit controversial
because it goes back to my Yooka-Laylee videos
because people like Arlo and the guy behind him.
But they're two people who I criticized for their takes on Yooka-Laylee.
Also, we got the quartering and Angry Joe fighting in the back.
Yeah, that's a good one.
Let it not be said that all of this throwing ideas randomly.
Yes, on my screen.
I think rags.
You might be ahead of me because the only problem is I'm just like
explaining it for people watching that as well is that yeah,
that is Angry Joe and the quartering.
And then me and Movie Bob.
...against the wall doesn't eventually yield a certain amount of winners.
There's good action beats, both of the predators,
object bomb.
As long as we see predator rip people in half, it's worth it, right?
Is that IGN?
Uh, I think it was.
Yeah, hang on.
Is that the right opinion?
...people in half, it's worth it, right?
Oh, yeah.
So IGN is response.
Response video is the axe.
I guess IGN is the dead person.
Then you got Ryan and JJ are fighting to the left of me as well.
Yeah.
And then the right opinion is fighting Vox.
And Jack is fighting a molar straw man.
Can you see that the molar straw man has little gas mask things on it?
Actually true straw man visions of us.
See, this is called molar.
And let's not forget their choice to add a cinematic set of black bars.
And this is perfect.
Cut off characters.
Beating the show.
Save so much.
Oh, wait, you guys are way ahead of me.
If, uh, can you wait?
It's 227 for us on our watch together.
It rags.
If you draw it back to 220, see if it actually pulls me back with you.
All right.
Give it a second.
I think that works.
You guys are 220.
227.
I'm now, yeah.
Two minutes.
Two minutes.
Okay.
That works.
Maybe that's how we fix that is because if I keep pulling it back,
it puts me out of sync with you guys.
As long as we see predator rip people in half, it's worth it, right?
Yeah.
Just again, to clarify how long it would take to do all this,
like to attach all these different things.
I don't even know how to do it.
It's absolutely insane work.
I would know how to do it.
I would just never do it.
It would take so long.
This would be so time consuming.
And let's not forget their choice to add a cinematic set of black bars.
I'm pretty sure Jay appreciates the camera.
Do you do you catch what I said there as well?
Make sure he doesn't get up.
The game plan somewhere is a waste of.
Yeah.
So Joseph stabs sober with definition of a horror game.
And I stabbed him with that.
I'm sorry.
What's I supposed to turn my brain off?
Fuck off.
He just killed the other straw man.
They just get shot the whole video.
He's been fighting straw man.
It's just
to turn my brain off.
This is insane.
Fuck off.
Furthermore,
it's a punishing me for the original children on my iPad to say much about.
That was not your own.
But he's got lines from every time we respond to the tool.
Not to mention who farms fucking windows.
Stop acting like warriors.
Now this is perfect.
He takes the axe out of I hate everything.
Because he just doesn't care quite to just uses the friends.
Like it's just like, oh my God, the themes of this video.
Oh shit.
Can you guys pull it back to like 245 just so we rethink again?
Yeah, I think when it's the little bitty starts and stops.
Yeah, they don't quite catch it.
Stop acting like warriors.
This better not get a sequel.
No, Quinton again.
I think it's becoming a running meme to have a Quinton face with little exes on it as well.
With his tongue sticking out too.
If you made a movie, it was really bad.
But you had the theme of.
I feel like that would say a movie.
I gotta get this pause right.
There it is.
You can see it on my stream.
At least there's a giant carrot.
So what do you think for like best, the greatest meme in existence?
That might be the great.
Yeah, that is amazing.
That was so deep.
I mean, the fact that he had to draw like backs for everyone's heads and even draw other pictures
and shit.
I mean, that's insane.
That's the best meme and the investment in the law as well.
Do you remember I said something like.
It was like the before the last one where I said it's going to get to the point where
one day someone grabs a bunch of quotes from all the things we've done and makes
like one long line narrative.
And it's like, oh, someone was making that.
It's the amount of videos you had to watch to be able to have done that.
Like it's insane.
Just all the clever references and the about jokes that would be missed by anybody.
Because I probably missed a bunch of them.
Everyone in the chat is clapping.
I know the best meme.
Amazing.
That is really well done.
I love the straw man ones.
I know you can also really smartly done.
There's so much that went into it.
So the link for it.
I'll post in chat right now and then the links for all means we've watched will eventually
be in the description.
His name is Major Bluetooth.
Major Bluetooth.
You're now the king of the man.
I'm assuming it's pronounced major.
It could be Madger, I don't know.
I feel like this guy probably lost his job and failed his degree just to make this.
You've had game players that comment on the video saying,
God damn, this is very well edited out of curiosity.
How many tracks were there?
And he said there's 46 tracks in total.
Oh my God.
Wow.
46 video and 46 audio.
Actually might be a total of 92 tracks then, assuming that's true.
Damn.
The most I've ever had in total was maybe 16.
Yeah, that's about my cap as well.
I've had about five, six.
I think my cap is like 10 or so.
But yeah, I probably get up to about six.
Things get crazy.
But unbelievable.
Amazing work.
What a way to cap off the meme section of this this eFap.
I'm coming up to one hour as well.
Perfect.
Undying appreciation because these things make us laugh like crazy.
And they're also extremely well made to take time and talent.
It's unbelievable.
You guys do this stuff.
But I mean, the audience love it and you can sort of, you know,
see that people love the show.
This was supposed to be fun, at least.
Yeah.
Remember, we're bad people for laughing at memes like this.
Oh, I mean, I was thinking, you know, the fact that like,
people are getting killed in that anyone could just be like,
they laugh at the idea of killing their opposition.
Do you think somebody could could be like, oh, this was a death threat?
I'm sure someone out there, you know, all those people were not the ones.
I wouldn't be surprised if there's a subreddit where they just get like
super hatred subreddit that's like, you know, that they laugh at memes where
like people are getting murdered just because they disagree.
Like, you know how fucked up that is.
Sure.
A sensitive and gonna happen.
I'm sure.
Um, but yeah, that that about concludes the meme section.
We can actually like look at videos now if everyone's ready to go back to that reality.
That was that was the reason this whole thing started.
But I see that it's going to just become a show where we just look at memes all day eventually.
Before we do that, though, I do got to say,
I can only be here for another couple hours or so.
Then I got to head out kind of early.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can be here for another two hours at least.
Yeah, I'll be good.
You have to make it for at least three.
Otherwise the fans will hate.
Yeah.
Me and my friend are going to go watch a movie.
We were supposed to do it on Tuesday, but his boss threw a curveball at him.
So now we're doing it tonight instead.
Of course.
It's at least a battle angel, right?
Yeah, we're pretty sure it's not going to be good, but I don't get to see him too often.
So yeah, we just watch movies together.
At least you can tell us when and everyone whether or not it was.
Yeah.
Don't worry, everyone.
I'll watch the movie so you don't have to.
And then I'll tell you how bad it is next.
Defab.
Objectively, though.
Objectively.
Yes, obviously.
Oh, impossible.
Oh, before.
Also before, since it was asked, I have played Metro Exodus.
It's very good.
Also played spec ops the line.
Holy shit.
That game is amazing.
I played a bit of Kingdom Come Deliverance.
I'm really liking it.
Played a bit of Soulcal 6.
Really liking it.
Haven't played much of Monster Hunter World yet, but it looks interesting.
What was the other game I had that I know I played?
Oh, there wasn't one.
Okay.
Metro Exodus.
Yeah.
Oh, spec ops the line was really, really good.
Metro Exodus.
I around a third of the way through the game.
I think there's like three areas and I just got to the second one.
The story, I got some criticisms of, but I haven't finished it.
So obviously, I can't speak of it completely, but I'm really, really liking it.
So there was also.
Oh, just want to say the editing for my Aquaman videos done.
So I just need to upload it.
So oh, God.
It's an hour before you leave for the movie.
Yeah, a whole hour and 55 minutes long.
I really hate that movie.
So sorry to everyone that likes it.
I'm going to make you not like it anymore.
But you're gonna you're taking away enjoyment from the world.
How could you do that?
I sure am.
And I don't well because I hate that movie.
So there you go.
Wolf, that's me.
You're watching movies wrong.
You're just trying to sound smarter than other people.
Three.
Well, I am.
But you know, it's a subjective lens.
Read your response theory.
I'm sure someone's going to take that quote.
Yeah, I am smarter than everyone.
I'm sure someone's going to say.
It'll be worth it as long as it ends up in a meme video at some point.
You stab somebody or something.
I should go.
I am smarter than everyone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm smarter than everyone, guys.
Don't you know that I'm smarter than all of you.
For anybody who's curious about covering just rights video and objectivity,
we will get around to it.
But I figure we should have a bit of a like delay on the objective subjective
discussion thing because we had like two or three faps the world about it.
So possibly anyway, because imagine if just right came again.
If he comes again, I want to talk to this again.
I don't know.
He came to us that first time.
You know, I don't have much respect for it anymore.
Well, yeah, but he at least talked to us.
Well, I seriously doubt he'll do it again, but maybe but yeah,
we'll do that at some point in the future.
Someone said, yeah, I'm fucking better than you.
Wolf Casparian.
God, I watched that video again recently.
The one where they melt down over 2016 election.
It is so funny.
Gift that keeps on giving.
It's so fucking funny when they like this.
You know, like they figured out like that means women voted like heavily for Trump.
They're like, if you're a woman and you voted for Trump, I'm fucking better than you.
It's like, Anna, Anna, Anna, Anna.
She's like, I didn't know.
No, Anna.
I'll start respecting your opinion when you just admit the Armenian genocide actually happened.
Oh, that's still like big controversial.
Have they said anything?
Yeah, about that.
Like there is a video out there of Anna screaming at someone in the audience
who asked them about it.
Oh, right.
Yeah, they're in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So saying that.
That didn't end well.
Well, no, because she went on a screaming rant just because someone asked the question.
I'm I can't remember the does is the is the public issue.
Like we don't deny it or is it the they don't comment?
Well, I don't know.
I think that Cenk is the one that actually denies it.
I don't know about the other people.
But I also don't watch the young Turks.
So young Turks.
This is awkward because Anna is Armenian.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So basically Armenian Armenia.
Anna has internalized genocide.
Damn, I'm sure we'll get an answer on that one day.
But yeah, so this is funnily enough.
I think this this video is originally linked to me by boxes of all people,
even though it could have come from anybody.
I think it was him.
He will know.
But have you guys heard of?
I mentioned this to I think rags knows about this kind of wolf does.
You may on the way Wolf.
You've definitely seen this actually, because you've talked to me about it.
So it's only quick.
But Star Wars kids is releasing shorts, I suppose.
Oh, God.
I don't know.
I can't watch this again.
All right.
You have no choice, but I hate it, though.
I hate this so much.
This is the worst thing.
So the idea is that they take the original scenes in the OT and take like audio clips
from them and then animate them and retell them, quote unquote, retell them.
Now, Wolf, no spoilers.
We're going to watch this.
And then we're just going to throw a bit for Zuko in to do this.
And that really irritates the hell out of me.
And this is like 40 K for kids.
Well, well, it's good.
You haven't seen it.
And same for rags.
Just try not to like hang yourself as bad.
Just as long as you remember a new hope, this may not go over well with you.
But yeah, so the idea is they're like kids check out these cool renditions of the old content.
It's like, OK, cool.
It's called Princess Leia, The Rescue Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures.
You guys ready?
OK, my anus is ready.
I need Skywalker.
I'm here to rescue you.
And I'll be pausing as well.
So this will be fucking copyrighted to hell and back.
Well, we're going to have company.
I skipped a bit.
It's a new rendition.
Yeah, everything's fine so far.
You know, yeah, the art style is like, OK, kind of neat, I guess.
Yeah, that's all right.
In the Galaxy of Adventures, sometimes the princess does the rest.
Oh, shut up.
So it really, it really makes me mad, too, because that guy, that's the voice actor
for like one of the best characters in Avatar, The Last Airbender.
And it really irritated me when I realized who that was.
The line was fuck.
I've forgotten it.
We'll play it again.
But a major Bluetooth just did a super chat.
I'll read it out because it's obviously relevant to his video.
Hey, thanks for checking out my video.
You'll be glad to know that wasn't my first draft of the meme script.
Originally, Down with Thrust had sound bites every time he came back.
But I thought it was funnier if he said nothing.
Oh, well, you have no problem with saying nothing.
He I believe he was stabbed with like the fucking much.
Fuck, what's one of the things that he said much something meant.
He was like a really stupid thing because he he like he's down with thrust.
Does anyone in chat remember what he said?
It's much.
I mean, Bluetooth, I remember that part.
I really hope it's not much something that he and he also did the whole,
you know, more bigger thing or whatever the hell he said.
He says a lot.
I still can't believe that Downward Thrust is literally the reason
why we binge watched all five Pirates of the Caribbean films.
Oh, shit.
We can we didn't we didn't tell anybody about that.
Yeah, we wolf watched all five of the Caribbean movies.
There are five.
First one's great.
That one's like the first one.
That one's like good.
It's all right.
Third one lost its mind and went off the edge of it.
And then the fourth one, the fourth one, I was like,
maybe the four as I remember, no, it's like actually worse.
And then the fifth one, I don't know what happened.
The fifth.
It's it's a nightmare.
The Pirates of the Caribbean just is just goes it's like a sailing ship.
And then it just fucking dead straight goes crashing down to the ocean.
The whole time, the whole time, Johnny Depp can't even do the Jack Sparrow voice in the fifth one.
It's really weird, really weird.
If you guys watch the first movie, any scene with Jack Sparrow
and then compare it to his voice in the fifth one, it's like,
I'm here to give me a ship like that.
But then you go to the fifth one.
It's like, what are you doing?
This is what I look like.
Do you?
And you're like, Oh, God.
And you know what's really bad?
I didn't realize it the first time I saw it.
But the fifth movie actually has a solo moment where it explains his last name
and where he got everything he wears.
Fuck yeah.
In case you don't know, they do like a flashback where Jack Sparrow's young
and his captain dies like Jack Sparrow's captain.
So he has to take over the ship and he sits atop the crows nest,
commanding people to do things.
And the villain of the film sees him and is like,
he was sitting up there like like a little bird,
like like a just a bird.
And it's like, like a sparrow.
Like this is like, no, please.
And then when he beats the guy originally,
basically the entire crew give him one token each and it's basically his costume.
Like it constructs his costume.
It was it was really sad watching that series just plummet off the edge of a cliff
because the first movie is amazing.
Has some problems, but it's it's amazing.
And then second movie is like, all right, this is good.
Then the third movie is when it just leaves the universe.
They should have just killed it then.
They should have killed it after the first one.
Yeah, this is the conundrum, right?
As much as we like the second one, if you have the second, you have to have the third one.
The third one is a nightmare.
So it's like, just have the first one.
Yeah, just have the first one.
The first one, at least like it doesn't leave on a cliffhanger or anything like it.
It's open just enough that you can make more movies,
but you can also watch it as a standalone.
You can just think like, yeah, and Jack went off to do a bunch of adventures.
Cool.
That's what I'll assume.
Someone said it went off the world's end of Wolf.
Yes, it did.
We'll call you Jack.
So low.
Yeah, that's pretty much what it was.
Painful.
Yes.
Back to pain in general.
Oh, great.
Sometimes the princess does the rescuing.
I'm not even a huge fan of the delivery.
Sometimes the princess does the rescuing.
It's sad because that voice actor is really, really good, but he is not good in this.
I don't know if you remember this scene, but yeah, Luke fucks his gun up
and then Leia takes it off him and saves him, I guess.
The galaxy of adventures.
Sometimes the princess does the wrestling.
Do you remember when that happened?
Hey, you remember this bit?
Remember how Luke tied himself up?
I don't know.
Just like, what?
When did that happen?
And it's like this.
Like, I don't think that happened either.
Oh, I guess that happened.
Wait, what?
Thanks for rewriting history.
I guess worse though.
Somebody has to save our skins.
You guys remember this?
Yeah, just like I remember from the movie.
I don't even know what I took.
Like what?
Disney, thanks for destroying Star Wars.
Why do you hate Star Wars?
I never want to watch anything that has Disney's name on it again
because of what they've done to Star Wars.
Why do they have to ruin shit?
Why do you buy things you hate?
She was great without ruining all of the guy characters.
Why'd you have to make it so the guy characters are useless?
Yeah, she was already great.
They didn't need to hammer home that point.
Why did you have to make every man an idiot for a character who was already good?
Do you remember that scene?
It's like great, like everybody's doing something proactive.
She comes up with an idea and it puts them into a position where they nearly all die,
but they get out of it as opposed to them nearly all dying.
All of them are doing things.
And do you remember like, what's the line back and forth between her and Han,
where he says something like, you're welcome, your highness.
They're all fucking with each other because they're all conflicting characters,
but they're all strong.
And it's just like the idea that it's like, this is not what happened.
What are you doing?
I don't get it.
Are they doing like, she's like, Ray, she's bored of being rescued.
It's just annoying.
It's like, you don't need to make every guy an idiot.
She's actively annoyed at these people who just saved her.
Zuko, never do this again, please.
You know what gasps me is the fucking like the face they give Han Solo as she jumped in
like the face of, I'm just so fucking useless.
I'm Han Solo.
I do nothing.
Where'd she go?
Oh, fuck off, Disney.
Yeah, this just pissed everyone off.
I wonder why.
What are the like dislikes on this?
Oh yeah, 6.2k to 8.3k.
So yeah, I think this was the first because I think there were some good ones,
at least to my knowledge, because people in the comments were saying
that this is the first one they disliked.
Yeah.
Tough comments, is this out of season April Fool's joke?
Thanks Blizzard for giving us that meme.
Yeah, you can show Leia being awesome without making everyone else stupid,
you know, like the original movie did.
The original trilogy presents Leia as strong, sassy, and assertive,
along with the rest of the male cast.
Feminist revisioning makes male heroes totally inept
because Leia don't need no man.
Keep running down your male characters and you won't have any left to mock.
Taking too many pointers from The Last Jedi.
Because they literally did the same thing there.
Give her purple hair and be done with it.
And a nose ring.
Yeah, look at this.
Why are you tearing down Luke Skywalker?
Another tough comment.
This is not how I remember Luke.
It's like, doesn't that feel familiar?
What can you say, you know?
They're obviously trying so, so hard to promote this idea that the force is female.
Yeah, I don't know what the hell that's all about.
No, it's not, but obviously they're trying to attract women into
because apparently they don't anyway.
Is there going to be a Han Solo version of this where they do an animation
that makes him look like the smart one and everyone else is stupid?
Are they gonna do it for Luke as well?
No, they're going to have Daenerys coming, I'm sure.
I think they're going to rewrite history so that Han did in fact shoot first.
And he just, and he shoots twice just to make sure.
No, it'll be that him and Greedo get along with each other.
And he says like.
They have to save what they love, not destroy what they hate.
Like Han goes to get his gun out and then Leia says, don't do that.
It's, it's violence.
And then he's like, who are you?
It's like, we haven't met yet, I guess.
Even if they stop.
But yeah, that's that thing exists.
And I guess that they go because I think a lot of people wanted us to see it.
And what do you think our world is now slightly worse?
Who were they marketing this to?
Like, are they they're really trying to get girls into something
that girls have always been able to get into?
Like what market are they trying to capture here with this stuff?
I don't know.
Like I said, if there was like four visions of this,
and like I said, like I said, it was called Han Solo.
The rescue Luke Skywalker, the rescue.
And for some reason, it would glorify that character
while making the rest of them look like they didn't do much in the scene.
Then I'll just be confused about the point of all of it.
But I'm pretty sure this is the only doing this for Leia.
People are putting a mouse and fire emojis.
And then there's fire as well.
There's a fire beer.
It's like they're really upset that for the most part,
Star Wars fans are male.
Like they really don't like that.
Like, sorry that we just really like it.
I don't know what to tell you.
They just decided it's a problem.
Like, that's not a good thing.
That's that's not an acceptable thing.
That guys can't have good things, I guess.
Yeah, well, you know, that's why they had choices that mostly men are fans.
Why?
There's just this male characters and it being smart and clever and proactive and strong.
You can't have that.
I mean, that's why you have the gray and then you have annihilation.
The inferior female version of the gray.
Like, seriously, everyone in the chat who thinks annihilation is good.
First off, you're wrong.
Second, watch the gray because every topic is now going to be
about how you're wrong about annihilation.
Well, they I'm sorry.
Annihilation is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
We have to make that video at some point so that we can actually see it now.
I really wish we were recording when we watch that
because the amount of times that we just burst out laughing.
Yeah.
Was other than the base scene where we were like movies.
Oh, yeah.
The bear scene was the one part where it was like, is this a good movie?
Why?
What is this doing here?
I don't remember.
Just go on YouTube.
Just go on YouTube and watch the bear scene.
Yeah, that's actually what I would recommend unless you want a really good laugh,
in which case annihilation is really funny unintentionally.
But, yeah, we're going to do something about annihilation one day.
Same for arrival.
Wait, that's happening whenever.
I think I think Jay is still setting up his podcast.
And once he does, we'll probably be able to do that.
But you're pumped for that.
Right.
Well, oh, yeah, it'll be a second debate because the major lead one counts now
in history, maybe.
I guess that was sort of a debate.
I mean, it's the only because all the other debates have taken place
either on Wolf's channel or not recorded.
So that was the first one, I think, because we've disagreed,
but we've never had like a debate really.
Have we?
We did.
Did our debate with I hate everything take place before or after the not so great debate?
After, but certainly before you, but that was offline.
You know, I was saying, like, we haven't had one of them on eFAB, I guess.
We're going to do something about annihilation one day.
This is a stressful statement.
I don't know what would be a funnier prospect.
The fact that we use the not so great debate as a warm up for I hate everything
or the fact that we went from I hate everything to like, let's just get this random dude.
Um, just right was after that, right?
Was the third one.
Oh, yeah, just right was definitely after both of those.
Oh, I guess snowman gaming counts as a debate, right?
How much of a debate though?
Not really.
Not really.
But it was kind of like the just right conversation.
Just not.
It was like a weird grape.
It was a weird grape.
Yeah, I agree.
It was definitely a weird grape, but I don't think it was like a debate.
Oh, someone posted annihilation bear emoji greater than wolf.
Oh, boy.
Creativity right there, wolf.
Get fucked.
I guess so.
Um, so anyway, emoji.
Someone in the chat was like, he called him a boy.
He was really hung up about that, wasn't it?
I don't use a lot of things.
I still can't believe the moment where like we both kind of realized,
oh my God, he's crying.
He's crying over the last Jedi.
The amount of
vergiteers you could tell.
I was like, man, I'm pretty sure he actually did like have like that
choking sound you make when you're trying to buy back a sub.
Well, like, yeah, because you could tell, though, that we were talking to somebody.
Star Wars was intrinsic to their heart.
Like, I can't remember if we got out of him if he actually disliked any of the movies.
And CJ, I don't know if you've seen that video.
So I don't know if you're confused about all this.
Me and Wolf talked to slash debated a guy, a random dude about TLJ at one point.
And like, we weren't exactly I wouldn't describe any of us as heated or angry.
Well, maybe me because he was like what he for for context.
He came to me for three days in a row, basically demanding that I would debate him.
And then eventually that turned into demanding that both me and Mauler debate him.
And I woke up one morning at like five or six in the morning
and my phone was blown up with messages from him demanding a debate.
And he wouldn't stop message like I went to class and he was messaging me
while I was trying to do my work on my computer.
And I was like, oh, my God, I just hate you.
So I was pretty I was very mad already.
So people criticized me on that for being a little too.
Uh, I guess, and yeah, sure.
Well, you'll go with that tismic with them.
But the context is I was already infuriated with him because for three days at that point,
he'd been harassing me to have a stupid debate with him.
And I'm like, OK, if we're going to do it, you're going to get eviscerated
in front of thousands of people.
Hmm. OK.
And we had the conversation and he started getting like possibly choked up a couple of times.
And we were like, oh, we unintentionally made him cry because I I told him
we brought up the Leia flying scene and he was I said it was stupid and he was like,
it's not stupid. And I was like, yes, it is stupid.
And he started like choking back sobs.
Oh, wow. Amazing.
But like at one point, to give you an idea of like, I guess his mindset, he was like shocked
to find out that me and Wolf wouldn't be buying the last Jedi on Blu-ray.
We were like, why would you do that?
And he was like, Star Wars.
And it's like, oh, I think you even had a line that's something to the effect of
that just informs this entire argument.
Yeah, it's the Star Wars was an amazing story that managed to sell toys
and become a label or franchise.
And now that like label is selling things that are just shit.
And he also pronounced asking wrong.
So he would constantly say, I am axing you.
What do you think of the fanatical Star Wars?
What was it is something really stupid?
Fanatical Star Wars.
Yeah, Disney Fanatical Star Wars universe.
It's like, what in the hell does that mean?
He was being fanatical for Disney Star Wars, which is odd.
It's funny.
Well, crying because people won't buy a Blu-ray of your film is.
It's not even your film.
It's somebody else.
A film that you like.
Yeah.
Jesus.
So did this take place live or was it someone you?
Yeah, it's actually.
Oh, yeah.
If you just look up at the not so great debate and it'll it'll be there.
Good times.
Good history.
But yeah, when we get the arrival one done, that'll be like a.
We've had a couple of days.
I'll have to see what happens.
Yeah.
And it looks like our our debate with the just right didn't really stick
because he made his objective subjectivity.
Yeah, it's like, oh, it's terrible.
I was just thinking like a couple days before he made that video.
Like, you know, maybe I'll go back and what just writes videos
because I'll say there were quite a few videos before he went insane
that I genuinely liked.
Like his rocky video is really great.
I still think that he has some of the best hobbit videos on YouTube.
Like when he makes a good video, he genuinely makes a really good video.
The thing that made me unsubscribe from him is his just lack of
consistency and his hypocrisy.
So and then he made that video and it's like, oh, well, you're still crazy.
Got it.
Oh, nice and nice, my brother.
Nice and nice.
It's nice and nice.
Hey, hey, hi.
I want to shout that it is the next time I see a movie
like Captain Marvel's like three or seven years ago.
Slice of dice, yeah.
People are always like, shut the fuck up.
Someone's going to put that in a new meme.
Oh, surely.
I would hope so.
You know what I hope?
I hope that in the next presidential election, people just write in blessed
pikeman as the contact box is like, are you running for president?
Oh, looks like it looks like Alita, the movie, it wins.
Let's see.
Weekend box office results.
Alita barely wins battle with thirty four point three million on historically
week weekend.
Oh, again, is there anything else that's come out this weekend?
I can't remember if it's competing with anything like it did lose to something
something unlikely.
Crappy comedy or something.
I don't know.
And I'm pretty certain Alita is not going to be good, but marketed all over.
I saw a trailer for Alita like almost 19 times.
It started to get really annoying.
I told the leading slowest president stay weekend at the box office in almost 20 years.
There's ways to go to make of his costly budget.
I was going to say the budget of it must be through the roof, especially the marketing budget.
He was everywhere.
I saw it literally in every form of marketing.
It popped up.
And if any are said, he liked Alita.
Really?
Am I going to be pleasantly surprised by this movie?
Well, Vito said it was OK.
Yeah.
YMS said that he thought it was all right.
The action was good, but the plot was mad.
I think that's what he said.
That's why I haven't I haven't read the manga.
So I have no idea what I'm going into.
But basically everybody, everybody, everybody who's talked about it to me has said plots,
mayor action and visual effects are great.
Also, yeah, people say him.
Why I said it was a five out of 10.
The thing is with YMS is that he gives like didn't he give fucking infinity war like a six out of 10.
So or or five.
He gave glass a one out of 10, I believe.
He did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
God, that was so retarded.
Glass does not deserve a one out of 10.
Mission Impossible got a three, I believe.
Fallout wasn't that bad.
It wasn't bad.
It wasn't.
Yeah, it wasn't bad at all.
It was amazing.
This is I believe that's what Wolf's pick for film of 2018, right?
Yeah, because there's only like five good films in 2018.
Yeah, we need to do something that's happening.
We're going to there's a 40 minute review of Mission Impossible Fallout.
We'll probably have a guest on.
We'll watch it and then watch that.
I'm perfectly fine with watching that movie again.
That movie was.
Yeah, I need to see it a first time.
Oh, you'll you'll be happy with it, I think.
Yeah, I'll definitely.
Oh, God.
I mean, I haven't watched any other Mission Impossible movies.
So that was my first one.
And it was a good protocol.
And I really liked it.
I haven't seen any since like the first two years and years ago.
Oh, you gave four out of five.
Oh, there you go.
Watch them.
If you gave four out of five, then that's a confirmation for Wolf that he'll probably like
a leader.
So you're said it had a good first half and a mass second half.
I don't know.
I thought it was going to be bad, but.
Yeah, that sounds like it's at least passable, which is probably.
I guess I'll tell everyone what it was like.
Next, that's Efap.
All right.
Oh, and you know, hasn't read the manga.
That's probably manga.
I got to say manga.
Otherwise, people get me.
I haven't read the Jenga people.
People care way too much about their Chinese cartoons.
Yeah, just it's a joke.
It's a comic just of fucking everyone's reading their Sudoku.
So looks like scale bound has been resurrected as a Nintendo.
Oh, my God.
How long have we been going for?
Scale.
Two already.
Yeah, hour and a half.
All right.
Let's get to it.
All right.
Our subject for today.
There's two possible videos.
I found an extra one that I saw the beginning of.
And I just I want to see what happens when Rags and Wolf get exposed to it.
The second one is something that I've seen and CJ seen a lot of it as well, I think.
Mark Brown, who is, if you did not know, the foundation along with Hbomberguy for Godelb.
You'll notice what I've copied from them as parody when you see it.
But Mark Brown, I got recommended him about a year before I started making review videos
from a friend who was like, he's like the best reviewer on the site.
I was like, OK.
I checked him out and I remember watching the video and being like,
I fucking didn't learn a thing.
It's like, what do you mean?
It's like, what did he even say?
And he was like, what did you mean?
And Mark Brown would self-proclaim to run a game making tutorial channel, I suppose.
Now, a lot of people are going to like him.
And that is absolutely fair.
I think that there's a lot to like about his channel.
He's aesthetically pleasing.
He's a great little editor and graphics designer.
In fact, I would possibly pay him to edit some of my videos.
So I'd be like, man, these are some slick graphics.
Our issue with with with his work is less to do with the presentation.
And he's probably going to be the best person we cover on Efap so far outside of Sarah Z.
She's probably got the crown right now.
We didn't.
I don't think it was public.
I think it was just us and a call.
I was playing divinity at the time.
I remember we went over his video about Cuphead enemies.
That was.
And it was really frustrating.
Wasn't that Wolf's podcast?
Was it?
I think so.
Yeah, it was because it was us and someone else.
It was like, was Smiler there?
Possibly.
Wolf Ringy.
No, could have just been.
I think it might have.
I think it might have just been us three.
I don't remember what my podcast that was.
Yeah, it was definitely the Cuphead one.
And basically, it was the title of the video was how Cuphead bosses kill you,
I think, or try to kill you.
And he basically just says that they attack you and you should avoid the attacks
and they run in patterns.
And it's like you could apply it to literally anything ever.
And it's the well, I mean, we'll check out two videos from him at most,
more than likely.
This may be a shorter effect, but that was another thing I should have mentioned.
The reason this effect is happening so closely after the previous one
is because I won't be able to do one for about a week plus post Wednesday.
So there'll be a bit of a gap before the one after this,
but you guys get a double one, plenty of memes.
And then the other one was not memes, but had requested guests, you know,
so it's like a double feature of things.
Someone said the one that we covered Mark Brown on
is the one where we also covered Downward Thrust saying that GTA 5 was failing.
Oh, God.
Yeah, GTA 5.
Did it fail?
Yeah, for anybody who doesn't know, CJ included Downward Thrust made a video
called GTA 5.
Did it fail?
Now, if you're on the way.
The most successful game ever made in GTA 5.
Not clickbait, not sexual.
It's, I don't know, I think that was our initial take,
we were like, how could you possibly think this game failed?
I'm confused.
And then he had to like, he had to respond in his comments
and then make a video after explaining himself.
It's obviously clickbait.
But anyway, let us check out a video from Mark Brown.
This one's called Following the Little Dotted Line Game Maker's Toolkit.
It's just a nice short eight minute video.
See what you guys think.
I hate it already.
The presentation.
Beautiful.
Hi.
This is Mark Brown with Game Maker's Toolkit, a series on video game design.
I hate it.
It sounds kind of ominous, doesn't it?
I hate it.
It's like he's, I thought he was doing like a bit for a second.
He sounds like he has a gold.
This is Mark Brown.
Game Maker's Toolkit.
I'll be trying to nail my impression of him for the next kiddo.
It's, I have to keep the voice.
The first thing I did when I emerged from Vault 111 in Fallout 4
was deactivate the main quest.
Okay.
Okay.
And whenever someone gives me a mission.
Those raiders that killed Mary, they took a lock or two.
If you could get it back.
Check doors.
I deactivate that too.
Okay.
I'm doing this slightly mad thing because I had just been playing The Witcher 3.
Not mad.
And felt that the game's helpful hand-holding quest information,
like the commands on the side of the screen, the marker on the mini map,
and the magic GPS trail to my next location, was kind of spoiling the experience.
You know you can turn all of those off, right?
He's going to mention that later, but the reason he doesn't mention it yet
is because he's running a narrative here and it would spoil it.
You can literally go into the options menu and turn all of that.
The game makes his toolkit.
Like, take this chap with the funny hairdo.
He's given me some directions to my next quest point and he says,
You know there's more a pond near the village.
Path leads off from it.
Follow that till you come across a lone rock.
Walk around that into the woods.
Oh, someone said he just do a tunneled random pause.
He does do them, but Mark knows how to do them.
And he knows how to internet.
He knows how to speak.
Mark Brown is the one that downward thrust is a bad clone of.
I have a feeling Mark Brown is the one that started all this crap
with the short videos that cover one specific subject
that flash random games on screen
that have words that flash onto the screen when he says them.
Like, what are the ones cerebral gaming or whatever I said, cerebellic gaming.
You just put it on the screen because it's just like that makes it more impactful.
But he does do pauses and he does do that and he does have random games.
Okay, got it.
Pond boulder cart.
I'm on it.
Just want to let everyone know.
Mark Brown also made a video called The Secret of Mario's Jump.
Wait, that's spoilers.
Just so you know what kind of person.
They'll know all about that after this one.
Walk around that into the woods.
Find the old cart.
You're there.
Okay, got it.
Pond boulder cart.
I'm on it.
But as soon as we leave the conversation, a dotted line appears in my mini map.
My God, just turn it off.
Turn it off.
Yeah, and I guess I have to find a large stone near the bottom.
God damn it, Geralt.
I was just about to say that.
The quests in this game are often exciting.
I know it's Geralt's name.
Yeah, that's awful.
I'm sorry.
He's already lost me.
Hey, man.
You have to watch the whole video before you can judge it.
That's what they say.
Witcher 3 is one of my favorite games, man.
I mean, all you literally just go into the options menu and turn it off.
He does.
Like I said, he's going to mention it at the end.
I don't know why he keeps it so far away from this bit.
It's confusing, but it's a part of the way he's going to introduce all this.
I end up here, and I guess I have to find a large stone near the pond.
A God damn it, Geralt.
It's not even a pond, that's a river.
The quests in this game are often exciting and funny and thoughtful,
but getting to them just has you blindly stumbling from waypoint to waypoint.
How are you blindly stumbling in the game?
It's telling you where to go.
It's not blind if you're actually going directly to the objective.
Yeah, that's the opposite of blindly stumbling.
Oh my goodness.
You fucking tard.
That is the, yeah, that is the opposite of blindly.
You're following a trail, a road, you're going to, you have a clear destination.
You're going towards that destination.
There's like, does he think that most people get up in the morning to go to work
and they just blindly stumble around the city until they find where they work?
I think what he should have, if he was aiming to try and explain it as a like,
you're following bread crumbs, you're not looking at anything.
That wouldn't be blind.
I think he's trying to say like autopilot, like you're not paying attention.
You're just following a line, but that wouldn't be blindly.
I don't know why he said blindly stumbling.
Yeah, that's very important.
It's in this game are often exciting and funny and thoughtful,
but getting to them just has you blindly stumbling from waypoint to waypoint.
In chat, someone said, I'll try stumbling.
That's a neat trick.
Someone said blindly stumbling straight toward an objective.
You idiot, Mark.
Just as you blindly stumble into waypoint, not fully taking in this
incredible world that CD project red has established.
Sorry that you aren't doing that.
Yes, it's weird, right?
So the idea is that look at this.
He's got the he's got it disabled here.
Yeah, he has the button and it disables the entire HUD.
And you can do both.
You can go, you know, you can travel to main objectives or second objectives
and then also wander off the beaten path and discover new things.
I mean, you can even if you want like certain things,
I'm pretty sure there's a lot of things individually disabled about the door.
You can disable.
Yeah, no, like I said, he does.
He does show it eventually, which is weird.
But the other thing is that it's like he's just saying
us as players are staring so closely at that dotted line
that we're not taking in the environment.
And I'm like, may who?
I if I if I don't know how you guys do it, right.
But for me, I'd be like I look at the mini map and I'm like straightforward.
OK, straightforward eyes back to the center and just walk across,
like keep moving and looking around.
Yeah, I would constantly looking around.
And then once in a while, maybe look back at the mini map.
Like, am I still going the right way?
Yeah, cool. OK.
Yeah, every once in a while, my eyes will glance at the mini map.
But how many people are just staring at the mini map?
Yeah, I'm always staring at the surroundings like I'm back when my Twitter still existed.
All right. I mean, I would post images from the Witcher three all the time
because I would wander around like the forest and mountains and shit.
And I just find points of the game that look gorgeous.
And I would screenshot it.
Mark, what are you doing?
Strange.
He wants to make a point about waypoints and just like this setup of like, but but but.
Just has you blindly stumbling from waypoint to waypoint,
not fully taking in this incredible world that CD Projekt Red has established.
It's so hard to be truly immersed in a world like this.
When you spend most of your time operating.
How is it hard to be immersed in this world?
You chose the Witcher three as a world that's hard to be immersed in.
Because of the dotted line.
On the mini map that you can disable.
Is this kind of retarded?
Like I said, it's going to be interesting to see how he does it,
because I can't even remember now, but he does account for that later.
Truly immersed in a world like this when you spend most of your time
operating in this artificial video game layer that sits on top of everything else.
You could press a button to turn it off.
Oh my God, I hate this video.
All right, so now he's off with Witcher three.
He's offered you three.
We could concentrate.
That's all good games with nonlinear levels and big open worlds didn't used to be like this.
It's hard to believe there was once a time before floating arrows and mini map.
But go back and play Deus Ex and when Paul Denton said he had.
I'm sorry, the soundtrack.
This is so melodically.
Yeah, it's the Witcher three soundtrack that he's playing over it.
He's playing the Skellige song.
Is it really?
Oh, it might be part of the unreleased tracks then.
Oh, either way.
I've got it on my computer.
Because I really know the bass soundtrack really well, but I haven't heard this one.
Because like, whichever song it is, he would have chosen it, right?
And it's just it's setting a tone right now.
No, no, this is the part.
No, this is the Fallout four.
The Fallout four rebuild.
Renew is I knew it wasn't from the original.
That's what this is.
So it's like this is something from the Witcher three.
It's Fallout four.
But yeah, I'm all in favor of using a suitable soundtrack for what you're talking about.
What my criticism here is like, dude, you're talking about a dotted line.
You're like, hmm, hmm.
Like someone's died.
Come on.
Yeah, it is.
It is very sad, you know.
Minimaps.
But go back and play Deus Ex.
And when Paul Denton says he has a map for you.
I think you're confused because this part here is similar to the AnSkeleg part of the
the AnSkeleg.
Oh, you mean the fields of ArtSkeleg?
Have you ever heard that?
No, there's an AnSkeleg and there's a fields of ArtSkeleg.
There's two.
Music.
Okay.
I'm not I can't think of the AnSkeleg one.
And when Paul Denton says he has a map for you,
he just means you now have an aerial photo in your notes and you have to figure out where
you are, where your objective is and where to go by observing and investigating.
Similarly.
And we know how that's always very fun in video games.
Definitely doesn't make people frustrated.
Yeah, nobody gets lost or frustrated by not being able to get to what they want to do.
Nobody on this planet has a nine to five job and needs to take advantage of all the small
time they have to play video games.
It can't be asked to fucking look around everywhere.
Yeah, when people that's the thing, like when you're listening to that guy's instructions,
like that's really like the one time it doesn't happen very often in the game
that a character will give you specific instructions.
Generally, they'll be like, yeah, it's over here.
Or oh, I'll mark it on your map or something like that.
Or when characters in a video game like in the game tell your character where to go,
you know, go to this thing and turn left is like it's still extremely ambiguous.
And you don't really know, especially if you're looking for like a specific item
or a specific person.
And it's just sort of assumed that you know where they would be when there's no way you
could figure it out.
Like if you went through video games with this mindset.
Yeah, sometimes it'll work.
But a lot of the times it will just not be possible.
It'll be frustrating and you will be stumbling around until you find what you will be blindly
stumbling in that case.
Yeah, that's the problem is that this is a very one sided argument right now.
Why do you think that dotted lines became a thing?
But we're gonna let's let him get a bit better.
You know, this is kind of reminding me of that Joseph Anderson horror video.
Like, you know, how his argument was something to the effect of horror isn't horror unless
you die permanently.
This is like an open world isn't immersive unless there's no quest markers.
Well, of course, Mark Brown, just like just fans would say, well, it's just my opinion,
dude, back off.
It's stupid.
His opinion sucks.
But it doesn't matter.
It's not presented as if it's just how he feels.
He keeps using words like we don't get immersed in this.
It's like, you don't.
Sorry that you had trouble getting immersed in one of the most immersive games ever made.
I'm sorry, man.
Alma is not working in your notes and you have to figure out where you are,
where your objective is and where this music is.
Where you are, where your objective is and where to go by observing and investigating.
Similarly, the maps in the original thief were incomplete sketches covered in doodles
and notes.
And then there's Morrowind.
You've got a map, but...
You get it?
He's giving examples of games where they're not as handholding.
Okay.
Just in case you weren't getting it.
Games that aged very well.
Morrowind.
You've got a map, but it only shows you places you've been.
So if you need to get somewhere new, you need to ask someone for directions or consult your
journal or look at a signpost.
You actually have to be a part of the world and become immersed in the landscape.
Instead of simply following a trail of breadcrumbs, you make your own way through Vvardenfell and
often end up finding secrets and surprises along the way.
That's called being lost.
Yeah, I...
This is the thing, man.
Like if you're on like a quest line where you're like,
I really want to go and fight that guy that's been building up with whatever,
and then they're like, he's around here somewhere,
you're gonna have to go adventure.
You're like, I want to know where he is.
Yeah.
I think it depends.
Sorry, go on.
Does he understand that that would require like us taking out an actual like notepad
and like the player doing that is like, go here, then go here.
Because you're not going to commit all this to memory first off.
That's unlikely.
Like it's often why when you press tab or you go to the menu in a game,
the quest tab is journal as if this is all stuff that you've been writing down.
Like this is information you need to retain so you keep it handy.
All of these markers and these quest lines,
they're giving you as the player the information that the character in the game would have.
They're conveying that to you.
It's that the scenario he's advocating for exists and it's is valid.
There's a guy out there who says like, I'd rather if I didn't know the directions.
It's like, okay, cool.
All right, turn them off.
But the problem is Mark Brown is saying stuff like,
by having to search more around, like adventure more, you'll get more immersed.
It's like, you can be, but that can like pull the shit.
I get frustrated.
Yeah, people get pulled out by that.
I'm like, fuck, where do I have to fucking go?
What is this person wearing?
What's their name?
Where did I go?
What were the directions again?
I forget what if you really don't want.
Or go ahead.
Sorry.
I mean, it's that's the thing when people and players are few things
take players out of immersion than when they're frustrated.
Yeah, that is probably the number one thing that takes that takes players out of a game
is when they get frustrated because the game isn't giving them the information they need.
And if you really don't want those quest markers, a lot of games,
you can either if there's not already an option to disable them,
you can like probably go into the game's code and mod it or something.
A lot of games have like no HUD mods.
Yeah, a lot of buttons like again, like the Witcher 3,
one button disables, disables the HUD.
I'd use it for screenshots.
Give me a second.
Sign me out of my YouTube.
I don't know why.
That's very strange.
Yeah, I've signed back in.
I'm just like, hopefully that happens every once in a while.
The stream's still up, at least.
Yeah, which is the good thing.
I was confused in there.
I was like, if I didn't sign it on my YouTube, I'm like.
Um, yeah, the it's like four results in the simplest vision.
Loads of hand holding and they like it.
Loads of hand holding and they don't like it.
No hand holding and they like it.
No hand holding and they hate it.
It's just like, there's no definitive take on like.
Oh wait, they're all saying F now.
Unless that's a joke.
Guys, don't be fucking with me.
I'm watching the stream.
It's still up.
All right, good.
I'm just saying F because you were signed out.
Yeah.
Still alive.
Ritten baller long man.
Yeah, again, it's not like it's hugely disagreeable what he has said.
It's just too, um, it's the idea is as if there's, like I said,
he knows for a fact that you can turn those off in the Witcher,
but he's not going to tell us that yet because he's making his point.
Again, for me, I'm just like, what are you?
Why are you doing it this way?
Following a trail of breadcrumbs.
You make your own way through Vardan theft.
I think you can turn them off in Dark Souls, can't you?
Uh, I can't even realize he just ignore them like a real man.
Are there even holding elements in Dark Souls?
Is it even, is there even dotted lines and stuff?
Like, I don't think there is.
But yeah, you can turn on the hold.
I believe you can literally take it off permanently through, um, at least any files.
I don't know if you can do it through the actual main menu.
I don't think it has any objective markers, does it?
You just, you are literally more about like the health bar.
Oh, right.
Okay.
Yeah.
And become immersed in the landscape.
Instead of simply following a trail of breadcrumbs,
you make your own way through Vardan theft.
And often end up finding secrets and surprises along the way.
What a shame that you can't get immersed in a world
because there's dotted lines on a map.
A few games.
Yes, it's weird.
I feel like this depends on what kind of, what the main focus of the game is.
I mean, if it is mainly quest oriented and you're going for one place or another, then fine.
But if it's something a bit more, um, I guess like open form,
like Skyrim, where you're supposed to wander around, maybe he has a point.
Well, as long as it's optional, I think that there's no problem.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Because then you get the players who don't want to wander around and the players who do.
Here's a recent example.
I was playing Resident Evil 2, which is an okay game for nothing more.
I'm sorry.
People have such low standards, but I was playing around.
I was doing Leon is like, all right, let's go through again.
All right.
We're doing all the stuff, doing the things, but Troy, hey,
it's Fred's third person, Resident Evil 7, except not scary.
Okay, I can get, so we're going through the game and you get pliers, right?
And you get the pliers and you're supposed to use like these pliers, these big,
you know, this thing to take the, like the chains off of doors.
And there are two doors in the police station that you, that you have to take the chains off of
after you get these big bolt cutter thingies.
And I must have spent like 15 minutes going to every single fucking door,
trying to find where is this second door that had the bolt that have chains on it
that I can use my bolt cutters on.
And I was like, man, this is a fucking drag.
Going back and backtracking to every room and every door because I didn't,
in my mind, I couldn't remember where are both of the doors that have these chains on them.
And they weren't marked on the map every single fucking door.
And I was like, well, this is fun, man.
This really pulls me out of the game.
Awesome.
I love no quest markers.
The complication about talking about immersion because it's,
uh, I mean, you guys would agree it's entirely subjective, right?
The idea of more on a can't use the map.
It's, um, pretty much said, uh, it wasn't on the map.
It's not on the map.
You know, a good example that's pretty recent is Metro Exodus because it has
like open world zones, but you don't have a dotted line.
You just have a map that you can whip out and it'll show your player as a little arrow.
Actually.
And because what was that?
Well, uh, the way it pulls up, it's like you see your character's hands and he's holding
the map and you can see a bit of the background from behind the map.
And when you turn, it has the arrow turn on the map too.
So you know where you're going.
So no dotted lines, no way point markers, but you know where to go.
Um, my suggestion, which is, which someone said in chat, uh, someone with bat in their
name, I forgotten enough, but, um, uh, dead space with the, it's a choice.
It's a very clear line and you can cycle what you want.
If it's like, do you want to go to the safe station, uh, upgrade station?
It'll just take you to the nearest one.
It's the most like, look, if you want it, it's there.
Okay.
You're like, thank you.
And you know what I love about it is the, this is more of a solution to dead space's
problem as opposed to a solution that all games have, but you know, the idea of,
um, sort of linear third person or first person, whatever game.
And let's just say there's, there's two corridors to go down and you're like,
oh, one of these is going to be the dead end.
And one of these will be the actual way you walk fucking two steps left and then
it activates a cut scene.
And that's the end of that area.
So you never got to go in that other hallway because you never know.
Yeah, I really, I really hate when that happens.
You use the waypoint and the waypoint is like, that's the proper way you go.
I'm going to check the not proper way first.
Yeah.
Cause you want to see what loots over there.
So you don't want to accidentally move on and then, oh, well, I guess I got a replay
of the whole game.
Yeah.
I love the dead or there's space waypoint system.
And if Mark Brown was like, yeah, but it takes you out of the immersive element
because it's the only way to go.
And I'm like, yeah, but optional bra option.
A few games, yes.
Salty.
I know if you walk to the door, yeah.
It's finding out which ones there are.
Yeah.
It's like, yes.
Yeah.
No wonder.
Yeah.
Duh, you fucking idiot.
Of course, when you walk up to the door and see there are chains,
then obviously then, yeah, you know, that's the door with the chains.
You've walked up to it.
Rags.
We can't insult our audiences.
If he says something retarded,
no, the game's easy.
Well, the game's like, unfortunately too easy.
Will the top comment be about Wolf's comments on Annihilation or Rags comments
on Resident Evil 2?
I'm sorry.
People really love this.
Okay.
Game you are for Rags.
Everyone should.
We should be saying, I think we'll have the top comments.
I mean, I really like Black Panther.
I thought it was revolutionary.
You're a liar and you're a charlatan.
Oh, God.
What's that?
What's that quote from Davy Jones from the second movie?
You're a liar and you'll never.
Oh, bootstrap, Bill, you are a liar and you'll spend an eternity on the ship.
I love that guy.
I feel naive, man.
He needs more work.
I feel naive.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
Too bad they ruined that character in the third.
Don't watch the third one just to save your image of Davy Jones.
Don't even watch the second one so that you don't have to be disappointed by the time you reach the third.
Wait.
Someone said you both want waypoints and no HUD.
I don't want no HUD.
I mean, I'm okay with it.
Depends on the game because Dead Space doesn't have a HUD and I love that.
That's also technically true.
I really like a lot of games that have HUDs.
Actually, thinking about it, Dead Space probably has one of if not my favorite HUD,
just the fact that it's...
Yeah, Dead Space has one of the best HUD systems I've ever seen in a game
because it's all completely natural.
Shows you how far on your back and there's all lore reasons for why your HUD is like that.
Yeah, I'm not against a HUD.
I'm not against it.
I just do appreciate a limit to HUD.
I mean, I honestly feel like some people overblow games that don't have HUDs.
They hype them up better than they are.
We will read the Super Chats at the end.
I just like the back-to-back ones here.
RE2 is a masterpiece of rags.
Just can't play video games in the next one.
It's okay rags.
I despise the combat.
Resident Evil 2 is not difficult at all and I'm breezing through it without any problems.
It's not difficult.
This is one part where the fuck is this place I need to go to?
Combat isn't really all that good at all, in fact.
Well, you're obviously playing it wrong then.
I guess, because I'm constantly dropping things because I get too much stuff because
I'm not using up enough resources, but I like Resident Evil 7 better so far.
They're saying play hardcore, you scrub.
Yeah, going into the game, I should have known how difficult the game was going to be.
I should have used the spider powers of telling the future.
Oh, and someone suggested Shadow of the Colossus.
That's quite nice.
You lift up your sword and it reflects the light from the sun to where you need to go next.
Sort of in-universe reasons slash games.
And yeah, they said with that break immersion, you'd have to ask Mark Brown.
I think that he's okay with optional systems.
We'll have to see what he says because we're getting there.
This is our second pause, so think of it as the third segment now.
So, along the way,
a few games are still carrying that torch.
Science-based survival sim Mias Marta, for example,
offers you a map which is pieced together from-
Yeah, that's kind of like what the map was from Metro Exodus.
And yeah, but the thing for me is like, I'm like, oh, that's really cool.
But then some guy could make a video where it's like, games are getting too obsessed with making
every detail vague and giving you barely anything to work with in terms of making your way.
And I just want to get to my goals.
I want to complete, you know, someone could be making that video, but I'd be like-
Yeah, but earlier on, didn't Mark Brown here,
did he criticize the fact that maps only highlight where you've been to?
Well, the thing is, I just find it interesting that there's clearly a dotted line right there.
But I wonder if, I think you say this is a good thing.
You said you don't get any information other than the things you've seen and it's
reprinted onto the map.
But could that not just be the same thing, but with extra steps?
Yeah, that's the same thing.
What was your map?
When your character gains information, it appears on your HUD or in your journal.
I suppose you had to explore it the first time at the very least.
And maybe he'd argue that that way you saw the environment at that point.
Yeah, but if he's getting directions from somebody,
the whole point is that you haven't like been there before.
Yeah, and there's still objective markers on the map, aren't there?
I would imagine so, but we'll see what he says.
Yeah, yeah.
Mias Marta, for example, offers you a map which is pieced together from-
Before we go on, I want to ask, because-
Well, this will be a quick thing, because it's something I saw in the chat
and I haven't played Resident Evil 2, so Rags would know.
Are you able to change the difficulty or is it one of those games
I don't know, I haven't checked.
You would have to start a whole new game.
I haven't really checked.
Because someone pointed out something in the chat,
hold on, I gotta scroll up to see it,
that we were just talking about how in the options menu,
we can literally turn off the HUD for the Witcher 3,
which makes Mark Brown's argument completely invalid.
But if you're able to bump up the difficulty for Resident Evil 2,
why don't you do that?
I didn't know, I didn't even check.
I might.
Okay.
I don't know anything about the game,
so I didn't know if it was one of those games-
I want to start a new game too, even.
Yeah, if I'm just going through the game and just kind of progressing,
then yeah, I generally don't even think about it.
Jay said, there's no such thing as objective markers, all markers are subjective.
That's your opinion.
Bean and Scra-
How fucking dare you Jar Jar-
No wait, JJ-
This is you a map which is pieced together from places you've been
and scraps of paper you find.
But it refuses to show you your current position unless you get to a good vantage point
and triangulate your location by pointing to two known structures.
Oh there you go, that's a bit more complicated than it just telling you I guess.
But this is the problem, he's scaling it, he's like saying you've got this,
then this, then over here there's this, and over here there's this,
and I guess he's not going to say which one's the correct answer,
just that these things are- what are weenies, sorry.
And scraps of paper you find,
but it refuses to show you your current position unless you get to a good vantage point
and triangulate your location by pointing to two known structures, or weenies.
Which as we know, every map in video games, in every set of directions in video games,
is accurate and precise enough for you to consistently be able to do that.
Not only that, how many people would find that so fucking annoying?
That sounds really frustrating.
That sounds really tedious.
Like I'm trying to be honest with you, like I could see myself having fun
if I got myself nice and immersed, but when you're like,
not in the mood for that shit, if you know what I mean, you'd be like I would place something else.
He was like I'd like to go, just tell me where the thing is,
and I could go and experience the story, or do the combat there, or get the,
have the quest progress.
I don't want the getting to the things part to be like the tedious, boring,
I spent half my time trying to get to the stuff that I need to do, this is fun.
Like where the fuck am I?
I've got to triangulate my position again.
By pointing to two known structures, or weenies if you watched the previous episode.
Again, simply moving through the world requires skill and determination,
and there's a huge sense of reward when you reach your destination.
Potentially.
I think he's just talking about a completely different genre of game though, isn't he?
He does feel less pointy, yeah.
Kind of reminiscent of the Joseph Nelson thing.
Like he's talking about a hardcore survival exploration game.
Yeah, like there's no, there's no, like in, like in day Z, right?
You've got a big, big world and you can get maps, even online maps.
And there's no thing that says you are here.
He has to be like, all right, I'm here and the road splits off this way.
I have to go this way.
If I want to get here, I'll go that way.
I mean, it does add a little, it does add something to it,
but there is a level of tediousness and there is a level of frustration that comes with,
oh, I didn't read the map, right?
Now I got to go all the way back and I can't just reload my game.
I have to, you know, it takes an immense amount of time to correct a potential mistake.
I, I guess it would depend on how it's done because I mean, I'm sure that complicated,
more complicated map system, like the triangulation method he was just showing,
could work if it was implemented well.
Like I've been playing kingdom come deliverance lately and it's got a really super complicated,
well, compared to other games, at least a sword fighting system,
but it's implemented really well.
The pause is the pause screen showed you guys is the wrist, right?
His wrist.
I was going to say it's so distracting.
It looks like his fingers are melting through the paper.
It looks a little, um,
something a little wrong here.
But yeah, it really depends on the execution of the method.
I mean, on paper, the whole triangulation method seems really annoying to me.
I'd rather just have like a fog over the map.
And then I get to explore rather than have to do a big complicated process.
But I don't know.
I've never played this game.
So I don't know how it works.
You just said this is like saying having to keep track of your urine meter in scum
is hugely rewarding.
Most of us do not find that interesting.
Like, yeah, you can make the argument you can go as far as you want, right?
You can be like you have exhaustion meters, temperature meters, and,
food and energy meters, illness, percentage likelihood.
And there was like more and more things to take care of.
And you could be like, that's not the same as finding your way through a fucking place.
And I'd be like, yeah, but this is the tedium aspect.
People find these things tedious.
Some people do it when you have to be careful to find the right balance,
as we just said, pretty much.
Someone in the chat said, I read a map while I broke my wrist.
I'm curious what his conclusion is going to be,
because it seems like he's demonizing the dotted line, which I don't think is fair.
Can you reach your destination?
But, okay.
Those are arcane retro games and high concept indies.
What about modern triple A open worlders that feel the need to offer
dynamically updated maps and helpful hints?
We like that.
Imagine using Shadow of Mordor as an open world game.
That is hardly an open world map.
Those are good.
We like those.
Keep doing those, please.
It's like on one end of the spectrum, you've got the one that has basically 10
versions of markers on screen, something obstructive that nobody would deny.
Let's just say 100 markers on screen in different ways.
And then the other end of the spectrum, you've got literally zero in a map,
the size of a literal earth.
And you're told to go to a hatch in some way.
You'd be like, okay, I need a direction.
And they're like, nope, immersion.
Hopefully most, if not everyone can agree that both of those are a terrible thing.
So it's like, so where's the correct thing?
It's like, it's pretty hard to say.
Open worlders that feel the need to offer dynamically updated
maps and helpful hints in the name of accessibility.
Well, how about more optional quests that shun such navigational aids
and encourage devoted players to really engage with the world?
Like the treasure maps you find in games like Red Dead Redemption.
He's like the happy vision though.
He's like, it'll encourage you to engage with the world.
What about that guy?
Who's like, where the fuck am I supposed to go?
And it's like the game told you, it's like he said, go to the Yellowstone near the river
and follow it down.
He's like, I fucking, I don't know.
I missed that.
There's been one.
What if it's a shitty map?
I just, maybe this is like an argument, you know,
like the journalists of Cuphead, like the idea that someone should be able to discern this.
And if they can't, then maybe they should be playing video games.
Alright, so let's use a real world example here.
I do a lot of hiking.
I do a lot of trail, walking, a lot of stuff like that.
And a lot of times we go to parks and things of that nature.
And we get the little brochure pamphlet, leaflet maps they have of all the trails and stuff.
Some of them are really crap.
Some of the ones that we get from the information kiosks and, you know,
visitor centers.
Some of them are really shitty and it can be confusing to follow the maps
because of how poorly they can be designed or how bad the scale is
or the symbols that are on the map compared to like what's on the trails themselves.
So he's assuming all of this with the idea that the maps the player will get
will be very, very good and understandable.
When maps are not all like that, some maps are shit.
And they could like, if you get, if you want to go on a, you know, a trail
and you're like, hey, let's hike for, you know, a eight, 10 miles today,
you better be pretty damn sure when you set off that you don't, you know,
fuck it up or else you've got a lot of time going back and trying to get back on track.
Are you suggesting you might end up stumbling blindly?
Yes.
Oh, I've heard that's bad.
Yeah.
Um, uh, short of Roman for said a star citizen has planet sized maps,
but it also uses waypoints because it's not retarded.
Okay.
Skyrim and Assassin's Creed Black Flag.
The idea with these is that you get a scrap of paper which directs you to some hidden booty.
The map might have a crude drawing of some land mass or a rock or a tree.
And that's about it.
They do that in Resident Evil 7 as well.
You find the photos.
But these are like secondary, like optional things for people to find.
Yeah, like that's fine.
Imagine if the main quests were delivered this way.
Well, he saw that's what he opened this with.
I believe he said, like, how about some more of these optional quests?
And then it's just like, what do you mean?
Are you saying there's a fix?
Is that, is that what you're saying?
Like, what does he, what does he exactly say?
Well, how about more optional quests?
Yeah.
See, he's just like, how about more of these?
There's like, uh, I don't know.
I don't really know.
Well, let's go back to a previous example he had in Fallout 4.
There's that farmer saying, go get this locket that the raider stole from me.
If, if you don't know on the map where the raider camp is,
you couldn't, you might not find it for hours and hours later.
Yeah, he's suggesting that that's almost,
he actually does sort of say that's what's been happening to him on Fallout.
And he's suggesting that that's actually like a,
it's not that it's a bad, because he's saying it's a good experience.
And it's like, you're not wrong.
It's a different experience.
Like, I want to do a thing.
I have to kind of guess where that thing might be.
But you have the two guys and you're like,
you got to wander around until you find that bandit camp.
And one of them is like, sweet.
I'll enjoy looking around in the map.
And when I find them, I find them.
The other guy's like, can you just tell me where it is?
You know, like, so, so subjective as to whether or not this is superior.
You need both.
There's an event in, um, there's an event in Fallout 76 where like robots attack a location
and you go to the location and kill the robots,
but you have to find out where they're coming from.
And there's like three possible places that they're going to.
So you have to check them all.
If you didn't have quest markers on each of those spots,
then it would just, it would be,
you have to randomly just find of all the locations on the map,
the one place where they might be coming from,
because they could be half the map away.
Oh, yeah, we'll go for it a little bit.
Paper, which directs you to some hidden booty.
The map might have a crude drawing of some land mass or a rock or a tree.
And that's about it.
You then need to scour the landscape and find the real world equivalent of this drawing.
You'll have to figure it out yourself with no hints, no map markers.
What do you mean with no hints?
You have a map.
Yeah, that is the hint.
That is the hint.
The fucking map you're looking at.
It was a strange thing to say.
Oh, we need to respond.
With this hint and no other.
I guess he means, I guess he means like no hint as to where it is on the overall map.
I assume he just means nothing additional to that.
I guess without more hints.
He should have said without more hints.
It's the only one hint.
It reminds me of totals telling me that this land mass with the news
hanging from the tree is the hanging rock.
Totals query says common but not too common.
The delivery fucks it because it's supposed to be common but not too common.
The whole lack of being a human thing.
Someone just put map response theory.
Map response theory.
Let's look at it through map lens, guys.
No map markers, no hand holding.
They're fun because they encourage you to really study and explore the game as well.
It can be fun.
And they also have a nice byproduct in that they delay the gratification of getting a reward.
Like finding keys to open lockers in Yakuza.
Hitting goddess stones to unlock goddess chests in Skyward Sword.
Putting an extra step in before finding a reward makes it all the more sweet.
That's so subjective.
There was a dotted line on the map as well.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's one thing.
But the idea that it's like you've got the key.
The key opens a door that opens the room that has a key in it.
That opens the box upstairs that opens up to a key.
You'd be like, okay, okay, you fuck with me.
All the sub guy goes, no, it delays the gratification.
That's one way of looking at it, I guess.
It just means the game takes longer.
This has delayed me more.
Step in before finding a reward makes it all the more sweeter.
Anyway, I always cherish these scraps of paper in games because they give me a chance to slow
down, take in the environment and figure things out for myself.
The other way to encourage proper exploration is with stuff.
Why do you have to say proper exploration?
Proper exploration.
Proper.
That's one we haven't put in the list, is it?
We had proper, real, actual.
What was the three?
It was real, actual and arguably, arguably.
Because proper.
We'll have to put in now.
What was the third one?
Chats at least going to remember it.
I hope real, genuine, genuine.
If a door is locked, it's locked.
Real, actual and genuine and proper.
They're my four favorite words to describe anything because they mean fuck all.
Smooth scavengers that don't act.
I need to put that on there if I haven't before.
The five horsemen.
The thing is right.
You'll find that me rags and wolf probably use those in the past,
but you'll know that if you ask us on it, we'll probably be like,
oh, what I meant is this.
And then you'd be like, why didn't you say that?
And we'll be like, probably should have.
I don't know.
Real, actual, genuine, proper, legitimate.
None of them mean anything to you because you're just like,
what do you mean by that?
The actual thing, the genuine thing, you know.
Is he saying we're exploring games wrong?
Apparently, you get to genuinely, properly, legitimately explore when you do it this way.
Exploration is with small scavenger hunts that don't actually count as quests.
Sometimes that's actually the correct use of actually,
because that would be appropriate if it's true.
Just saying, because you can't use it.
I don't want to fucking say you can't use these words.
Actually, count as quests.
Sometimes they're called hidden quests or unlisted quests by the fans.
One of my most memorable moments in Fallout 3 took place in the Anchorage Memorial Museum.
I hacked into this computer and found a note about hidden stash
behind a busted storage door near the service entrance.
I'd put a clinic on the door, which is a pretty clever way.
But also, there's an operating table, an x-rays on the wall, and-
Kind of ruins it.
Because it said clinic on the door.
You know, like, the idea that you discern it from these things,
it's like, but it said clinic on the door, though.
Yeah, that's really clever what they did.
Putting all of these hospital-themed items into a clinic.
That was really clever.
A changing screen and a scalpel in the locker.
Wow.
You can see how playing in this fashion encourages you to read the world-
Who just has a scalpel in their locker?
I think it's a failure on the player if there's things to read in the world
and they choose to stare at the dotted line that's there to help if they need it.
Like, man, you don't have to look at the dotted line, okay?
It's there to help if you need it.
Does it take a lot of skill if you, like, walk into a room
and there's an operating table and a lot of medical-themed instruments
and lights and all this stuff around and you're like,
oh, this is a hospital.
Oh.
Is that really, does that take a lot of player skill to piece together, really?
Someone mentioned the things in Bioshock,
remember you could pick up an audio diary and they'd be like,
I hid my stash in my room with a code number 3313.
Then you go to a room that's locked and it's like, what's the code?
And you go, 3313?
It opens and you're like, okay.
They're like, is Mark Brown, like, hoping to get more stuff like that?
Because I'm not against it.
I just, it's weird.
Glorify it to this degree.
He blames the player for this.
Well, the dotted line is what he's playing.
Which, by the way, Bioshock has a dotted line, equivalent.
Just you to read the world in a very different way.
Bilbo mappens.
In an organic way.
Anyway, inside the safe is a component which lets me open the door
and behind that door is some goodies, a key and a note pointing me to a refrigerator,
which I find and open to get my prize, a big load of bottle caps,
and a recipe for my lurk cakes.
Well, turns out the recipe is just an Easter egg, an inside joke at Bethesda.
But I didn't care.
The real reward was a chance to engage my brain to st-
What about the guy who did all that and said that was fucking pointless?
Mark Brown, I don't think there's a whole lot of brain engagement in new videos.
You seriously though, like, I think I would have had his reaction personally.
I like the idea of going on a treasure hunt and then at the end as a joke.
I'd be like, oh, that's cool.
But what about the dude who's like, wow, what a waste of fucking time?
Yeah, I got to the end.
I'm like a recipe for my alert my alert cakes.
Oh, okay.
I was hoping to find like a weapon.
Hooray.
Some people love finding Easter eggs.
That's right.
That's what I'm saying.
He's portraying it like there's only the one result,
but there's so many results from doing something like that.
Is he saying that he's got some money out of it?
Is he saying that every question should be like this?
I don't know the ultimate problem with Mark Brown.
You don't necessarily know what he's standing for.
Maybe he maybe he'll explain.
What was the chance to engage my brain to study the surroundings
and to follow clues instead of breadcrumbs?
So that's why you're just doing what you do.
The note said go here, go here, go do this.
And you're okay.
And then you did it.
This clip here just reminds me of the,
all people take my opinion on Fallout every day
that people listen to their entire life.
I just remember this is the visual.
Yeah.
But it's true, guys.
I love Snowman Gaming's response to that.
Like, oh, that's classic.
So that's why I'm wandering the wasteland in Fallout 4
without waypoints and quest markers.
I want to be led by my own.
Okay, good luck with your decals, then.
Not by a compass.
I want to find interesting notes and follow scavenger hunts,
but using my own powers of investigation.
I want to see some interesting building over the horizon.
Go do that.
Nothing's stopping you.
The waypoint never stops you.
It's literally designed for people to do that.
Like, this is insane, I know.
But have you guys ever had a waypoint in Fallout?
Because I've played through all of three.
Do you ever have a waypoint in Go?
You know what?
I'm just going to go look over here a sec
because this looks kind of interesting.
Yeah, of course.
And every time I get down a waypoint,
I know that I had to go specifically
right to that waypoint right now.
I had no way it could matter.
What I'm suggesting is, like,
I think that's what most players do.
They're like, oh, that's where I got to go.
Do not deviate from the line.
Oh, Mark.
Some interesting building over the horizon.
Just go see what fun treasures or stories can be found inside.
And when I find a note that says...
Found the mayor in the tub last night.
Locked the door before the missus found him.
I want to find the right room by finding a sign like this.
I don't think you were looking.
You looked like you were checking everything.
You just pumped into it anyway.
Yeah, you would have checked everything anyway
in that building.
What's...
I get his point.
But...
What?
The mayor will be in the men's bathroom.
Clever!
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm not exactly making much meaningful progress in the game,
mind you.
I've been playing Fallout 4 for around 10 hours
and finished exactly two quests.
The game's...
Nope, you're not supposed to do that.
See, this is the thing.
Like, four hours for two quests.
I have no idea what he's done.
But, like, I wonder if it's just unsustainable.
Like, even he would be like,
okay, I'm turning these markers back on.
Yeah, at what point are you just like,
I just want to find all the things and do the stuff
and follow these quests and progress through these quests.
Have you guys got subtitles on for the video?
No.
Because it's showing on mine.
Because after he said that he said
the game is not designed to be played.
And that cuts off.
Oh, we'll check it out.
I'm not curious.
The game is not designed to be played.
The game simply isn't designed to be played this way.
Like, how you...
Yeah, but let's talk about subtitles.
So, you shouldn't really...
You should turn off subtitles,
especially with a foreign film.
You should follow all the clues of what...
How people are reacting to what's happening.
I was so curious where you were going with that.
I was like, what the fuck is this?
So, you should turn off those pesky subtitles.
Oh, God, that reminds me.
In a devoted moviegoer,
we'll be able to find out what's happening in a movie
if you turn off your subtitles
just by paying attention to the other clues.
That reminds me of when the three of us
were watching The Mummy 3,
and I didn't have subtitles,
so I had no idea what was happening.
No, that's because you weren't a devoted enough...
It's supposed to be in Ferret Wolf.
In Ferret.
I inferred it by asking you guys
what the Japanese people would say.
You were your dotted line, sir.
The game simply isn't designed to be played this way,
like how you could also turn off
all the quest helpers in The Witcher 3,
but then some guy will say...
The patrol has been lost
somewhere along the south shore of Lake Windommer.
And you soon realize there are no signposts
and no place names on your map,
and you can't ask for directions.
So you try and find it yourself,
and you end up in a bandit camp,
and you run away,
and oh, God, is that a bear?
This has gone very wrong indeed.
Oh, what? That's just exploring, though.
That's just exploring.
That's exploring and finding things along the way.
Why is it bad now?
So I guess he's saying that
there needs to be clues,
but not too many clues,
or not too much clues.
I think what he's saying is
there need to be ways in a game
to find where you need to go,
but without the game actually telling you in the HUD.
I think... Is that what he's saying?
Yeah, I think that he just wants some...
He wants the dotted line,
but not to the dotted line degree.
Something much less than that,
because that's too obvious,
and it takes away from the experience.
So like, signposts, arrows,
random people you can talk to that go that way,
go to the rock,
go to the river,
go to that stuff.
But again, I'm like,
that's fine,
but man,
some people really want to need that dotted line,
and I am absolutely one of them sometimes.
It depends on what I'm doing
and what mood I'm in.
Yeah.
I just want to fucking get to the thing.
I don't want to
wumble around for fucking hours
while I'm like,
yeah, is this what we're supposed to...
Nope.
Yeah, like of the 10 lakes here,
which one of them is the right lake?
He's like, oh, Jesus.
And then if someone was like,
well, you should have paid more attention,
because there's a signpost,
right?
And I'd be like,
I missed the signpost.
Is that...
Have I failed life?
You missed the signpost,
so now you have to redo hours of gameplay.
Sorry.
Is that a bear?
This has gone very wrong, indeed.
But I am having fun.
Perhaps in an ideal world,
games like this would be perfectly playable
without map markers,
but you could turn them on
if you get really lost,
or you just want to make some fast progress.
But for now, at least...
So he's aware of that counter-argument,
but it squeaks in right there.
That's it.
All right.
Right at the end, I guess.
It would be cool to see
a few more optional missions in games
that don't show up on your map
or your quest log,
and let you take a moment to really...
But...
Okay, whatever.
Soak the world in
to get around through observation
and investigation
and not blind subservience.
But there's plenty of that.
And there's people who don't want to do that shit.
There's loads of people
who don't want to do that shit.
That would be tedious and boring,
and I would hate having to do that
with every game.
It's like deduction.
It's something that people...
Point and click as a genre.
There's people who do not want to play it
because it's all about figuring a thing out.
Like puzzle games.
Some people don't want to play Portal
or Cube
or any of the other ones,
because they're literally like,
I don't fucking want to play a game
that I'm just stressfully figuring out
what's essentially a mass puzzle.
And it's like, okay.
If I was Geralt,
and I came up to a guy
and he's like, you need to find this.
And I would be...
I'd be there with my book,
my notepad,
my thing a bunch of woods it.
And I'd be like, all right.
Describe them to me.
And I'd write down what they look like.
What are their names?
Where are they last seen?
And they'd say a place is like,
oh, like such and such.
Which one is that?
And I'd mark one which that one was.
And then I'd ask for a peasant
for directions on the way over there, somebody.
And I would have all these notes
so that I would know
where to go and what to do
and everything like that.
I would want all this information.
And I'd fill that all out myself.
And I'd put it in, I don't know,
say a journal that I could access
at any time for usefulness.
Right?
And then I would take out the map
that I already had, of course.
I'd be like, okay.
And then I would take my map
and I would mark on my map
where it might be.
I might put a little dot
or a little question mark.
And then I would just trace.
All right.
If I want to get there,
I go down this road,
turn left there and that's duh.
Like all of this stuff would be things
that I would do as my character.
You're not...
You're just removing the tedium
of doing all that yourself.
Wouldn't it become really tedious
as well if you had to ask
for directions at every village?
I'd just stop and ask people
just like, oh, hey, where's this?
Yeah.
I think we can all agree
that the conclusion is
put in the options for these things.
Yes.
I don't mind the options.
Yeah, put in the options.
Absolutely.
Then we're done.
But to be like,
most games seem to just
have the dotted line now.
Yeah, you can turn it off.
But you're like,
that's it.
Not blind subservience.
That little dotted line.
As someone who was...
Like in Search and Rescue,
we had to learn how to orienteer
and we had to learn
how to do map reading.
And I was on the high school
orienteering team for...
What was it?
ROTC.
So I know my way around maps and compasses.
And it's an involved process.
It's tough to learn
how to do all that stuff
when you're in a room.
But then when you actually
go out into woods
and you get out onto roads
and you measure distances
and you keep your bearings straight.
Like that could be
a really difficult thing to do.
Now add that on top of
everything else you're already doing.
And a lot of people
will despise having to do that.
And then he's like,
yeah, well, you're not
exploring it with your mind and stuff.
And they just be like,
can you not?
Can you not?
And yeah, it's just so odd
that you use Witcher 3
and then just randomly throws in.
It's like, oh yeah,
you can turn it off.
But what will happen from Lucy?
He said he sounds so smug
when he said blind subservience.
And if anything,
the quest markers
are in subservience to you.
Where is this around here?
It would be cool to see
a few more optional missions in games
that don't show up in your map
or your quest log
and let you take a moment
to really soak the world in
to get around through observation
and investigation
and not blind subservience.
What a fucking prick.
Blind subservience
to that little dotted line is like,
no, it's there to help you.
It's serving you if anything else
and you're not forced to follow it.
Yeah, you can do a zigzag.
You can wander off.
Yeah, this was the ROTC rag.
It was high school Marine Corps.
What was it blind subservience?
Not the blind subservience
to that little dotted line.
I'm just going to make it up.
I have it in there.
Not subscribed.
This April Fool's video
is going to be filled with so many references.
It will be too hard to understand,
even for us.
Let's flip it.
Let's flip it blind subservience
to this peasants directions.
Oh, I mean blind subservience
to the clues on this map.
Blind subservience to a health bar
just because you don't want
your character to die.
What if I told you
that quest markers were descriptive,
not prescriptive.
Yes, also three seconds left
is the time for a Skillshare plug.
Let's see what it is.
Hi guys, it's Mark here.
Thank you so much for watching the episode.
If you enjoyed it, please leave a comment.
Why are you using Fallout music
with your background?
Subscribe to the channel.
It's autistic.
Pitching in via Patreon.
Oh, it's Patreon.
Patreon.
Help me tell you things you already know.
This guy makes $10,000 a month on Patreon.
I'm telling you, man.
Well, I don't know.
People throw money at these kinds of guys.
I don't get it.
So yeah, what do you think from that video?
If you for a second managed to scrub the cup,
had one from existence.
What do you think?
I would be like, why is I, I don't, I don't.
I'd be like, what does this guy work at a 7-Eleven?
Or is this like a hobby?
He does telling me things that are ambiguous or.
Doesn't he have like some really absurdly large Patreon?
Well, did you hear what CJ just said?
No.
He makes like $10,000 a month on Patreon.
Oh, right.
That disappoints the hell out of me.
Since he only make like one video a month too.
Uh, I think it's two per month.
Let me have a look.
10,000 a month.
Eight minutes.
Well, okay.
So this was from, uh, I'm going to go get a drink.
This video, this video was made in November 17th, 2015.
So in fairness, this is for, well, three, three and a half years old, this video.
So I can't speak on the situation back then, but okay.
So in the last one month, he's put out a 12 minute video,
11 minute video, 9 minute video, 19 minute video.
Oh, that's so bad.
Enough for this.
That's not bad.
Someone in the chat linked Rhino Milk coffee thermometer sticker on
amazon.com from Rhino Wares.
This is an actual thing.
Wait, can I have the link?
Yeah, hold on.
Sounds fascinating.
Uh, so if you need a thermometer sticker, Rhino Milk coffee, a Q temp adhesive
thermometer for milk coffee is the make.
He does that.
Is this real?
Well, I mean, I don't think it's going to do with us, but it's just it's Rhino brand.
I think it's Rhino brand.
Rhino Wares.
It's a Rhino milk coffee thermometer sticker.
How about that?
Everyone get your own Rhino Milk thermometer.
I guess it's a sticker that it reacts to heat.
So depending on how many of the little boxes are like red or whatever, it tells you how hot it is.
He rags a PSA stitch and his friend on the podcast.
They covered Jonathan McIntosh's Star Wars video.
Yeah, I haven't watched it yet.
I wonder how it goes compared to our coverage.
That was the 30 FAP, I think it'll fourth.
But early, early, but it was terrible.
Yeah, well, because we kept it when it came out.
It was like describing a movie that didn't exist.
Like legit was about a movie that just didn't happen.
But yeah, so Mark is is interesting to me because like, you know, in the in the grand
scale of coverage, where do you think he lands from from that video?
Harmlessly useless.
Wasn't that yeah.
Benign really probably like one of the better ones then, right?
It's like people are actually posting Rhino Milk thermometer.
And so the only other video I ever wanted to show you from him is this one,
because you saw the cuphead one.
Now, CJ, you haven't seen the cuphead one, right?
I doubt it anyway.
No.
That video, he just tells you a bunch of things about the enemies and cuphead until the video
ends. He's like, the enemy shoot you.
And if they shoot high, you need to duck under it, shoot low, you need to jump over it.
Sometimes two enemies at the same time, sometimes an enemy that moves up and down
and you're just sitting there like that.
But then you look at the name of the video and it says how the enemies of cuphead try
to kill you.
So you're like, all right, then I guess you.
Yeah.
Okay, sure.
So this one's called the secret of Mario's jump and other versatile verbs.
What do you think that means?
Oh, a verb that can be used in multiple ways.
But what does that have to do with Mario's jump?
Because jump can mean a lot of different things.
You could jump, you know, you could push yourself off the ground using your legs
or you could jump a spot in line, which means to cut in front of cut in line,
which is its own idiom.
But that we're not going to go down that linguistic rabbit hole.
We could also have like a like a like a hyperspace jump in in in science fiction
where you enter hyperspace.
Hey, hey, said I've seen this video and I don't know what it's about.
All right, we're going to check this out.
Jumping is just a jumping is just a weird step.
Well, jumping subjective.
Super Mario is famous for his jump, but it wasn't always so great.
In his very first game, Donkey Kong, Mario's leap was incredibly simple.
You could do one jump while standing still and another while running.
So right off the bat, this kind of reminds me of like a gamer from Mars video.
Do you like?
Yeah, I was going to say, like, everyone agree.
Yeah, yeah, I'm mostly fine with the way the language is using and the present.
Yeah, everything's fine.
Bill and another while running.
You can't move in midair and the animation is the same
every single time you press the button.
When it comes to verbs, which are the actions that are playing.
Are you comfortable with that?
The action is sure fine.
Why would you not just say actions?
Apparently, it's not his terminology.
I thought it was.
This is what he calls it.
I thought he got it from someone else.
Oh, well, I guess we'll see.
I'm assuming from this video, you thought that right.
It's confusing anyway.
I just he put a comment.
He commented below the video saying this is where he got it from this.
Oh, well, anyway, it's just confusing.
No, no, like, no, no, no, no beef to Mark Brown.
But like, when I first saw this, I was like, how pretentious do you want to be
calling the actions you take in a video game?
It's like, why'd you have to say that?
It's just like a big eye roll.
It's like, yeah, but I'm like, all right, let's run with it.
This jump is pretty basic.
The standing jump, for example, is no more complicated.
And for those who are looking for references,
versatile verbs is something that comes up in in Goodell.
Actually comes on screen.
I say versatile verbs.
It's an actual quote from this video.
It's not even made up.
There you go.
But it slipped right in.
People were just like, versatile verbs.
The fuck does that mean?
Standing jump, for example, is no more complicated than press A to do B.
But in more recent games like Super Mario 3D World,
the plumber's jump is way more interesting.
You can change the length, height, angle, and landing zone.
You can transition in and out of different moves
and spring off walls and bounce on Koopa shells.
Far from press A to do B,
this one verb can lead to a massive number.
Pretty sure you've been able to do a few of those things for quite a while.
Yeah, even N64 Mario.
Jumping on Goomba shells.
Can you do that before?
Perhaps Galaxy 2.
Which one is this?
Galaxy or Galaxy 2?
Either way, maybe this one has the most of all Marios.
Maybe press A to do B.
This one verb can lead to a massive number of different outcomes.
All right.
Mario's jump is just one example of what I call versatile verbs,
which is where one action can have multiple-
I just- I can't, I'm sorry.
It's-
That is the most pretentious thing I've ever heard in my life.
Like, it just- I just smear, because I'm like, what are you doing, Mark?
Versatile verbs.
I will help you know that this verb is very versatile.
Okay, let me bring up my thesaurus.com and I'll say something,
and then I'll just find every single possible large word I can think of.
What was the word?
What was the word?
Variable verbs.
What was the word we called on the right opinion?
Rags, do you remember?
It was the word that we sent back to him and he was like, I used that word?
We were like, yeah.
Yeah, um, anodyne.
Anodyne, that's the one.
Even he was like, I don't know why I used that.
But wasn't it like something like perceptibly anodyne statements?
Yeah, that was it.
It was the most like, what does that even mean?
Which is where words-
We're just stupid because we don't know, we don't know words like Jack Saints.
Narrative tripling.
Oh, and someone said, I want to hear that in your Goodell voice.
Versatile verbs has already been said in that one, but perceptively anodyne has been written
down and will be in the script for the next Goodell.
Like, how could it not be?
Action can have multiple uses depending on how you perform it.
And these are a great starting point for action orientated games.
Because, as I hope to show you in this video, it means interesting gameplay full of tricky
choices and player expression can be derived from the move to make the game.
Right, so he's going to actually explain the references here.
But at this point, he's just showing random games and I just, it's just like my inspiration.
I just love Mark Brown for him.
Like, thank you for just throwing random footage in the background.
I just like, it looks like editing, I guess.
Full of tricky choices and player expression can be derived from the most fundamental interactions
with the game.
Plus, they often make the game more satisfying and reduce the number of buttons that a game needs
to have.
So, on this episode of game-
Allowing a button to do more things can reduce the amount of buttons required.
Just-
Yeah, because instead of, yeah-
Like, by definition-
Just stating the obvious.
Alright then, I agree with that statement.
This episode of Game Maker's Toolkit, I'm going to look at a number of terrific games
to find different ways to design versatile verbs.
I would just say it like that.
Because verbs are driven by buttons-
Makes you sound smart.
See?
Verbs are driven by buttons.
The fact that he just said verbs are driven by buttons, you're like, you're already as an
audience member like, verbs, actions.
Why do you just say actions?
Why can't you just say actions?
It's useful to think of the different ways that a button can be used.
For example, what's the difference between pressing a button and holding it down?
In some games, not much.
In others, like Owlboy, you're actually at a disadvantage if you hold the button,
because the hero's fire rate is slower than if you hammer the button in rapid succession.
There's no choice to make.
But in Mega Man X-
There's no choice to make, you just gave us the choice!
What the fuck?
I was gonna say, like, wouldn't the choice be that it's less annoying to tap it,
but it gives you less damage output?
Yeah, that's the choice.
That's in, um, and then that's in, uh, pop pop pop, enter the Gungeon.
A lot of guns will fire a lot faster if you,
you click the button manually every time you want to fire instead of holding it down.
And like, it's like, all right, all right.
He's right.
Okay.
There's no choice to make.
But there's obviously a choice.
In Mega Man X, you can press the fire button to shoot a tiny low powered pellet,
or hold that same button down to charge up a bigger and more powerful blast.
If you've unlocked this piece of armor, you can hold the button down for even longer
to charge up even more deadly shots to fire.
I think his voice perfectly complements what he's saying.
Just bland, uninteresting, um, very dull.
I feel like this would only be in-
You know what I mean?
Like a little kid.
It's-
So a lot of people argue it's the most-
You start firing.
It's the most basic you can get about game development,
and therefore useful to people who are aspiring game developers.
And I'm just like-
Are they seven?
Have they not played a video game?
That's my question.
Any video game ever.
I feel like you could show this in primary school,
and it would be fine, but any older than that, and the kids would be like-
No, we already know all this.
Uh, R. White said dominant strategy.
Something being less annoying is irrelevant.
He said there's no choice to make.
Yeah, he said there's no choice to make.
There is a choice to make.
Yes.
Even if-
Even if the choice was shoot yourself in the head or not,
there would still be a choice to make shots.
A poor choice of words.
Hey, nice.
Hey, Wolf, would you suck on Geralt's toes if given the opportunity?
Gonna get some of that witcher milk, huh buddy?
Also, why would you do that?
You're weird.
Grow up.
Have some respect for yourself.
Yeah, Wolf, have some respect for me.
Where are you really at from?
Is that chat?
That's a super chat.
Wolf, do you want to perform some versatile verbs in here?
You know what I'm so confused with?
Someone come up with a funnier way to say versatile verbs,
because I used it in the previous one, but I've got to say it again now.
What can I say?
Vincirile curbs?
That'll work.
Vincirile curbs.
You let go of the button.
With this setup, we get an interesting tactical choice between doing a small amount of damage
immediately, or doing a large amount of damage in the future.
Oh my god, duh.
It's not that fucking-
Duh.
Are these videos for eight-year-olds?
But immediately-
The graphic presentation though, guys.
Like, it's sleek.
Or doing a large amount of damage in the future,
and risking getting hurt while the shot charges.
A more modern take on the charged shot is the cooked grenade.
You can throw a grenade immediately, and it will bounce around a bit before exploding.
Or you can hold on to a grenade for a couple seconds,
attacked, or in your hand.
Whoops.
This time-
You guys following?
Okay.
You guys able to follow us?
Yeah, I think I-
I think I-
It might-
I think I get it.
I think that means that.
Hey, for a little bit, then he sounded like Colossus is crazy, but without any soul.
Without any soul.
Hamish Johnson said, yes, I have played a game.
Yes, I have indeed.
I have played a first-person shooter before, yeah.
Well, I'm somewhat of a gamer myself.
Hello.
Hello, gamers.
Have you cooked a grenade?
Whoops.
This time, the decision is about risk versus reward.
How far are you willing to-
The other one was about risk versus reward.
He even said that.
He said that when you charge the shot, it leaves you open for attack.
That would be risk versus reward.
To push it.
And how well do you know the invisible timing-
It's not an always invisible timer.
I can't think of the game.
I know that some game out there where when you cook the grenade, there's like four
little curved lines that show you exactly when it's going to explode in your hand.
In Dirty Bomb, Fragger's ability was to throw a frag grenade.
And while he had the grenade in one hand, his fingers would count.
In the other hand, one, two, three.
So that was a clever little thing.
Yeah.
Right, Dirty Bomb.
...window of the grenade.
Yes.
Count in your head.
And in Mario, you can tap the button for a short hop,
or hold the button down for longer to give yourself more height.
But here's a different way to think about holding buttons.
In the game-
Here's a different way to think about holding buttons.
...fire your gun.
But the only way to repair your ship is to release that same button.
This means you have to make a choice between offense and defense,
and you'll swing between the two throughout the battle.
When you're shooting, you're terrified of getting kills.
And when you're healing, you're anxious to get back into the fights,
giving the game a feisty back-and-forth feel.
Also in Luftrausers, you need to let go of the throttle if you want to make sharp turns,
so you can pull off that sweet move where you whip around
and blast away at the bogeys on the tail.
It sounded so fake when he said sweet move.
Blast away.
You told me it sounds fake.
It's like it really is like the Hello Fellow gamers.
Hello Fellow gamers, yeah.
But again, the only response you can really have to any of this is like,
Okay.
Yep.
Yeah.
I just-
I don't know.
Is this fascinating content?
This is some revolutionary, crazy, newly invented game concept
that if you hold the jump button down, you jump higher.
Because again, I want to clarify, we're not saying he's hugely inaccurate here.
It's just, yep.
It's just like, it's like a video about fucking duh.
So you can pull off that sweet move where you whip around
and blast away at the bogeys on your tail.
Developer Vlambeer really knows the thrill of letting go of a button.
Okay.
Or how about in Dark Souls, where your stamina meter restores more-
By the way, he is the direct inspiration for me saying Dark Souls.
Dark Souls.
I say it like a million times in the video, it's just
the way he says Dark Souls.
Dark Souls.
Dark Souls, where your stamina-
When was this video made?
This one, uh, was made...
2017, February.
All right.
To restores more slowly if you're holding your shield up.
So to get your energy back sooner, you've got to drop your shield
and put yourself at risk for a few seconds.
Love that the first sentence he said-
You lost all your souls.
Yeah, I'm just horrified the guy's not picking up his souls.
The first sentence he said confirmed the second sentence,
as in, stamina drains while you hold your shield up.
So you must put the shield down for your stamina to go back up.
You're like, yeah, that follows.
Okay.
The worst part is, is he like ran right over the soul.
Slowly.
It's not like you have to like bend over and pick them up.
You just press the button and then they're there.
If you're holding your shield up.
So to get your energy back sooner, you've got to drop your shield
and put yourself at risk for a few seconds.
Let's just assume it's zero souls and you just died there with nothing.
Okay, let's, let's help the guy out.
You know, that's not what it was.
Let's just help the guy out.
Sooner, you've got to drop your shield and put yourself at risk for a few seconds.
Like anyone played Dark Souls here?
Like you just, watching this, I'd be like, what a nuclear take.
You have to put the shield down.
Your eyes will be darting back and forth between the stamina meter
and the enemy who's about to kick your ass.
Yep.
And then you've got motor storm, which is a bit like the cooked grenade of racing games.
The cooked grenade of racing.
Here we go.
But that's, that's going in.
The cooked grenade of race.
Valiant hearts is the Dark Souls of Ori and the Blind Forest.
I love you, my friend.
Let's just, let's just apply things that have nothing to do.
But the point of this, as you probably noticed, is he's just taking examples where you have one
button and you can either press it, tap it multiple times or hold it for a long time.
And those things will do different things.
What's the secret?
Keep that in mind, sir.
Keep that in mind.
Enemy who's about to kick your ass.
And then you've got motor storm, which is a bit like the cooked grenade of racing games.
You hold a button to push the car forward, but hold it too long and your car will explode.
So you've got to release that same button to let your engine cool.
You spend the entire race nursing this.
It's not like it doesn't make sense as a sentence.
It's just funny.
Button trying to push your car to its absolute limit
and then letting go for a quick cool down at the optimal time.
And again, the whole like his first statement
proves that the second is this is the same statement as the second statement.
Do you know what I mean?
Someone said he's Jared if Jared was good at editing.
To release that same button to let your engine cool.
You spend the entire race nursing this button trying to push.
In fact, he says it three times.
The opening is you hold down a button to go fast.
And if you don't, your car if you don't let go the right time, your car explodes.
Listen to the tonal bloke level of him trying to actually put emotion into it.
You hold a button to boost your car forward,
but hold it too long and your car will explode.
The car will explode.
Okay.
So you've got to release that same button to let your engine cool.
You spend the entire race nursing this button trying to push your car to its absolute limit
and then letting go for a quick cool down at the optimal time.
Like around corners or in mid air.
Yep.
Okay.
That was a really weird pause.
That's a total bloke pause, that one.
All right.
I'm gonna make the video about 10 minutes.
Total bloke TM pause.
This is not a, that's not a Mark Brown voice or in mid air.
A button can also be pressed more than once.
Oh, really?
God, I didn't want to keep re-buying controllers all the time.
I mean, that would be annoying and expensive.
That is, that is actually something that sounds less intelligent than what Jared say.
A button can be pressed more than once.
I'm just like hearing Jared's, what the hell, bro.
Marco back in.
Thank you, Mark Brown.
I love you.
Around corners or in mid air.
A button can also be pressed.
That is a really long pause.
It is, it's strange.
It's like an uncharacteristically long pause for me.
That sounds like-
He might consider that too long.
If you look back, he might have been like, oh, fuck.
Um, yeah.
A button can also be pressed more than once.
Not like this.
I'm talking about verbs where pressing the button once leads to one action
and pressing it again leads to another.
Almost certainly-
So like a combo in a fighting game?
Yeah.
Okay.
Or, um, um-
Or a double jump, as he's just about to show.
Yeah, there'd be a couple examples, but, um, yeah, let's jump to this one.
Second press.
So you've got moves like the double jump, where you have to choose the perfect time
to fire off that second leap.
Yep.
Throw in a few more mid air jumps and you get the manic thrills of Miss Splosion Man.
Or how about the reload button in Gears of War.
Press it again when the line is in the right space on all your next shots.
It takes one of those super basic press A to do B type verbs and gives it this-
So coin-
I know how you defined it.
Just use actions.
I'm not convinced when you say anything satisfying.
We're six minutes into this video and I have yet to hear what the secret to Mario's jump is.
He's gonna get there.
On all your next shots.
It takes one of those super basic press A to do B type verbs
and gives it this satisfying, tactical bite.
And of course, there are combos in action games.
A simple punch can transition into a more powerful attack
if you follow it up with two more jabs of the same button.
Things get much more interesting, however, if you start adding in more buttons to your combos.
Because verbs can take on whole new meanings when you combine them.
Look at Psychonauts.
You've got a basic attack and a jump.
But perform the attack after jumping and you unleash a devastating palm.
I shit you not.
I was gonna put this one for one in Godel.
Because I just thought it just fits in so perfectly to be like,
you press a jump button and it attacks.
Then you press another button and it makes you jump.
Then you press the jump button and the attack button.
You perform a jumping attack.
It's like, wow, this is like a tutorial.
I'm just waiting so desperately for him to say something of any value.
Someone said, you can verb your noun adjective times to cause verb two.
But perform-
What about adverbs though?
Oh shit, that just throws everything out.
Oh, don't adverbs any of this.
After jumping and you unleash a devastating palm bomb move.
That's an example of using one verb directly after another
within a specific timing window to transition into an entire new move.
Fuck me in the asshole sideways.
Who is this guy?
Is he, he's like explaining this to like an infant in a crib.
Hey man, have some respect for infants in cribs, okay?
They'd get this well before seeing the video.
They just need to play one game.
Not like the previous example-
We just need to get Jared's take on this video.
I'm sure he'll have a better idea.
Maybe he can speak to Mark Brown and like get him to speak simple.
Is this like, this video is like I'm being patronized too.
Like I've never played a video game in my life and the most basic concepts
that are practically ubiquitous in video games have to be detailed in their explanation.
He clearly made this to explain video games to his mother.
Someone said Mark Brown should put a disclaimer at the start of his video saying
this video is only interesting if you've never played a game.
Exactly, exactly.
What if he told us that that was the point?
What would you say?
Congratulations.
That's so stupid.
Marked ass Brown.
Why would I ever watch a Mark Brown video ever?
Oh, I mean, I was going to say this will be the food when you've seen
and I'm pretty sure this is going to put you off the channel forever at this point.
I'm pretty sure that the first time we covered him,
was because you wanted to.
And then afterward, I said you're not allowed to choose videos anymore.
Yes, because here we are watching two more.
What I'm saying, what I'll suggest to the chat.
The cuphead one is probably his worst video, not the presentation, not for accuracy,
just for the entertainment value.
It is a deadpan description of how enemies shoot things at you.
It's just the most like, why does this video exist?
Bum luck says this is a video about space wizards intended for sure.
Well, some of the into K play made the good point that he's explaining something so basic
in such a basic way.
And yet he's calling actions verbs.
Yeah, he's using deliberately.
He's using deliberately confusing terminology while trying to explain something so basic.
It's this pretentious art housey thing of just taking something and trying to extrapolate it
into those complicated, meaningful, symbolic, metaphorical thing that you possibly can.
You know, if I said to you, let's let's talk about Star Wars Episode Four.
And then I and you go, what, what do you want to talk about?
And I go, the opening text.
And you go, oh, the title crawl.
And I go, no, the first the text post the crawl.
And you're like, what the fuck are you talking about?
And I go, the text, the scene, you're like, confused as fuck.
And it's like the text of art.
So like the text of a book means the content of the book.
The text in relation to movies can be the visuals can be the scenes, the dialogue, the anything.
I'm referring to what is in the movie, the text.
You'd be like, what are you doing?
Oh, you're one of those people.
Yeah, you're just like, why?
Why are you doing this?
Why can't you just use words like shit about when they actually like use a normal word
to explain what they're saying?
You're like, why didn't you just use that in the first place?
And then they're like, well, I don't know.
It's like stuck.
I'm pretty sure he never referred.
I have evolved as a critic.
I don't think someone could correct me on this.
But I don't think Mark Brown ever referred to actions in games as
verbs after this video, because a lot of people in the comments were like,
love the video.
Not sure about calling things verbs, though.
Bit weird, bit confusing, bit what the fuck.
To an entirely new move.
It's a lot like the previous example, but this time with two different buttons.
This sort of combination requires timing and a skillful understanding of how
and when different verbs interlink.
Shut the fuck up.
So what if you had a genre, right?
Do you think whenever Mark Brown opens up like the newspaper or whatever,
and he sees the new action adventure game that released from, you know,
whatever video he's like, it should be called, right?
It should be called verb adventure game.
Well, the only people that are going to get out anything out of this video are
children or people who have never played a video game before.
And yeah, what?
So just calling them verbs is just really confusing.
Like they're going to be so turned off by that.
I don't know what he thought it was helping.
I don't know if he thought maybe that it made it clearer.
I just think it makes it less.
What if a kid watched this stupid video and they went to their friend's house
and they were talking about video games.
And then he was watching his friend play and he said, do the verb, do the verb.
And the other kids like what the fuck he talked about.
You know, when you press a button, a verb happens.
And they're like, you're not coming over to my house ever again.
OK, so I'm I actually got to get going here.
So all righty.
Well, well, yeah.
Well, I wholeheartedly don't feel bad about not finishing this wonderful video.
I'm about to invent a lie as to why I have to leave, too.
So good luck.
It's very useful.
And one.
Yeah, I will report to my as to my findings of Alita next time.
Was there any you did cover metrics of this, right?
For because I knew there was a super chat about it as well.
But I think you said, Oh, oh, I know that someone asked a couple of times in the chat.
He didn't super chat.
And I don't think what my thoughts were of the Tolkien trailer.
I'm already put off by it because Tolkien is very specifically said
that his experiences in World War One did not influence the Lord of the Rings.
And the entire trailer is literally just World War One with Lord of the Rings.
Yeah.
So I really feel like they're just completely getting it wrong.
And then on top of that, it's like, all right, let's put a Nazgul in here.
Let's put this fiery Balrog looking thing in here.
Let's put fellowship in one of the lines.
It seems like it's really trying to bait people
who are fans of the Lord of the Rings while getting his life wrong.
And I find that really disrespectful.
So I'm really not excited for it at all.
Yeah, I saw the trailer and I was like,
Yeah, I really don't feel like they're going to give him the respect he deserves.
So that's my thoughts on it.
Do you think a film could work for that and they're just not going to be able to nail it?
I mean, I don't know.
Because they're gonna have to tie it into writing.
That's what he's most known for.
I don't know what information they have on his experiences in World War One
and how they're all going to tie that in together.
I just can't think of this movie ever doing good.
I'm pretty certain it's going to be bad.
Well, at least we got the TV show coming.
You're really excited about that, aren't you?
Shut up.
Like it's the thing that you've been waiting for.
You pre-ordered it, I believe.
Oh, yeah, yeah, you know, I'm really grateful that they're going to make a show
ruining the Lord of the Rings, another show ruining the Witcher,
and another show ruining the Wheel of Time.
So it's great.
I'm just so glad to see all of my favorite fantasy franchises just get raped.
Well, like because people don't care about the actual content.
You've still got like Pirates of the Caribbean hasn't been ruined.
Alien, Predator, Terminator, Star Wars.
All these things are still intact.
So I don't know what you're really complaining about.
It's like a whole thing.
Mass Effect.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We were there for when they weren't shit.
Yeah, we were we hashtag.
We were there, but a different.
We were there before everything was ruined.
Well, actually, no, I wasn't there before Alien.
Those were really pretty early on.
Yeah, that's true.
Oh, Ghostbusters.
Yeah, that might be fixed by the third one, though.
We will see.
We will see.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Also, rendering the Aquaman video now.
This is the longest video I've ever made, so I don't know if there's going to
and it has the most editing I've ever done for a single video.
So I have no idea how Vegas is going to react to this, but with.
It'll be fine.
I read your video and that was two hours, two hours and 35 minutes.
Good for you, rags.
Well, anyway, if if possible, the Aquaman video might be up tomorrow.
So, yeah, there you go.
And I will report as if to Alita is good, bad or meh next time.
Wonderful.
Which, by the way, won't be for like a possible week and a half.
That's why we did the that should give me enough time to try and convince my boss
to actually give me the days that I request off instead of some random Monday.
There you go.
Less is all around.
Yeah, totally.
Have a good day, Wolf.
Little Pip and Trilio.
Pip Pip doodly doo, everyone.
Ta ta.
Pip Pip doodly doo.
Now they're going to use that line for you too, rags.
We'll just have Pip Pip doodly doo, like running alongside each other in the next meme epic.
Doodly doo.
I mean, it'll never be.
Oh, my God, that's a good one.
Oh, good old Jared.
All right.
I'll see you guys.
Yeah, I'm probably going to have to go after we finish this video.
Well, yeah, well, we'll probably do this video, then Super Chas, and then I'll probably be over.
You can stay for however long you wish to.
Jay has said he'd happily jump in to try and fill the dead wolf space.
He's going to jump in.
Jump in.
That's a versatile voice.
Does he press A1, or does he hold it down?
Let's ask him.
That's a voice little voib.
Hey, Jay.
Doodly doo.
Hey, you can ask CJ.
Yeah, did you press A once, or did you hold the button down, or did you double tap to jump in?
Oh, to jump into what?
Into the chat now?
Yeah, to jump into wolf's place.
Oh, I don't know.
I've just, I pressed the answer call button on Discord.
Yeah, but did you hold it down, or did you press it twice?
Or did you time it right?
I just pressed it.
I just hit it, and then you waited within the window, and then you hit it.
You committed to a voib, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Did you put the grenade to get inside this room?
I did think about not answering for a while, just so I could be mysterious, and then maybe
you'd have to call me again, and it's been fashionably late.
By the way, I have to speak a bit quietly, because there are people sleeping.
But I'm okay.
You can fuck them.
Whatever.
All right, well, let's continue then.
The link is there.
Wait, wait, wait.
We have to learn about simple transitions.
The link for Jay is right there.
Wait, why is there only two people in this room now?
There's four.
Uh-oh.
There's Wolf.
There's myself.
Oh, I just joined.
I just joined the one you just posted.
It's the same one.
All right.
I think I'm in.
Is everyone in?
Jay, are you in?
I'm in.
Everything's going terrible.
I've been really enjoying contributing nothing of value to the chat,
and I'm very happy to be contributing nothing to the stream.
Yeah.
How have you found this video so far?
You pressed A to bring you in.
We could double tap A to me.
I would say that I could get value out of it if I wanted to just like
think about these concepts for a while,
because sometimes just having a simple concept described to you
can be a valuable experience if you want to,
like if you're going into that industry or whatever,
it's good to just like put words to these things.
But it's not like he's not saying anything that isn't blindingly obvious.
Sometimes that I could get value out of that, you know, but...
How so?
I remember watching a video on Good Dialogue,
which essentially just went,
Good Dialogue communicates things.
It provides characterization.
And I was like,
yeah, this video is completely useless,
but it's just a checklist generally of things to think about when I'm writing dialogue.
So from that standpoint, it was sort of a valuable experience.
That one sounds more useful than this one,
which is you press button, character does thing.
I mean, if I was going into game design,
I would probably want to watch videos like this occasionally.
Oh, okay.
Maybe.
I'm going into game design at what age?
Like, three?
Did people ever forget that you could like press a button to do something or hold it down?
That's the thing, right?
The most complicated concept he's come up with so far is you press one button
and then during a time window, press another button
and you'll commit to an action that you can only do by doing that combination.
And it's like, right.
There was actually an easier way to say that.
Like you could just say there are combos you can use done.
And then you're like, well, what does that mean?
You go when you press buttons in an order.
I mean, it's not the kind of thing I wouldn't watch you while also doing something else.
Why not?
I wouldn't watch it.
How many negatives were there in there?
This is something I would watch while doing something else.
I wouldn't.
I personally wouldn't watch it,
but if I was to watch it, I'd need to be doing something else.
I would have to be distracted to the point where this video was almost like not even existing.
I think if I was trying to go to sleep.
Like, if I was fucking someone, I wouldn't even like maybe this would be in the background
where I wasn't even thinking about it at all because I was focused on something else much
more interesting.
The screen is turned away and muted and Rags will still turn it off.
Yeah, like just its mere existence, its presence.
I could sense it with my, with my, my doggo senses.
Doggos do have better hearing.
I feel like we're going somewhere else with that.
Oh, my voice is, my voice is going bad.
I don't know what's going on.
I think I'm making a video this week.
Shall we continue?
Yes, yes, yes, we shall.
This sort of combination requires timing and a skillful understanding of how and when
different verbs interlink, whether that's a simple transition or a much more complex
move set that players will need to learn and memorize.
Aim down sights in a shooter works slightly different.
Oh, my fucking God.
Is he going to tell us about aiming down sights?
Oh, man, Mahler, you're a piece of shit for even making this video happen.
I love this video.
It just makes me laugh.
He got six small minutes, guys.
Do you think he's aware of how like vacuous this is?
Or do you think he thinks he's saying something?
My assumption with the most benefit of the doubt is that he's like,
I think most people understand these things on their own, but I'm collecting them all up.
And I'm showing that this pattern is present in all kinds of different scenarios.
And it's the same thing.
I think that's what he would say.
Someone said in the chat, this game, this video is like 30 years too late.
Like, yes, I agree.
The death toll shit said Mario's job bad.
Mario's job.
We're getting there.
There is there is Mario's job.
He's going to come back.
Better be this secret at the end.
Better blow me away.
All right.
The fact that you said that just puts a smile on my face.
You can press the answer may surprise you.
Oh, yes.
Oh, yes.
Aim down sights in a shooter works slightly differently.
You can press the trigger to fire wildly in a general direction,
or you can hold down the aim button to fire with more accuracy.
Oh, my God.
Well, I want you to I want you to absorb that line.
You could hold down the a button to a more accurately.
This isn't right.
None of this is right.
Why am I here?
Um, 10 K a month, I believe.
And that's not including YouTube ads.
And this is the thing.
I'm not like advocating that his money get taken away or anything like that.
It's just a curious statistic.
Yeah, I know.
It's I'm not saying like, it's it's more like I'm not saying, oh, she wasn't having
the success.
I'm just kind of like, oh, hey, why why is this happened?
All the people out there who put time and effort and dedication into so many interesting
and unique concepts and ideas, and they're barely scraping it by.
And this fucking troglodyte is making ten thousand dollars a month telling us about
aiming down the fucking sites of a gun.
And that's just and that's just Patreon.
Yeah, and that's just Patreon.
Guys, what's his name?
I want to I want to search him, but I've I've not been paying enough attention.
I'm literally getting another drink.
Fuck this movie.
Mark Brown or Marcus Brownlee, as you call it.
So if you were to say his so if you were to say his name, like a lot of like roll calls
do, he would be Brown Mark.
Well, the channel isn't the channel game on a short note, like a skid mark.
Oh, oh, nice.
I get it.
I get it.
Yeah.
Thanks.
You almost had to go to the point of Mark Brown style to explain that to us.
I actually just stole that joke from someone else who was making it about someone else
called Mark Brown.
Or actually, I think it was I think it was someone that my mom went to school with if
I'm remembering right.
So it might be the same Mark Brown.
I don't know how how old Mark Brown is.
But if Mark Brown ends up watching this, Mark, were you called a skid mark at school?
Because then I said you knew my mom.
You press the button at a thing happens.
Mark Baggins.
I'm going to make a parody of this called Bark Brown.
And it's going to be just explaining in the most simple,
Brownwood thrust.
We have to hear it again.
Sorry, that's not right.
I need to get right at the important bit.
Here we go.
Like me differently.
You can press the trigger to fire wildly in a general direction,
or you can hold down the aim button to fire with more accuracy.
It's just it's just perfect.
It's the best thing that's ever happened.
I love it.
But usually the expense of player movement.
It doesn't work for every game.
But hey, it's a good example of how you can hold down one button to modify another verb.
Stop saying verb.
Modify another verb.
So that would make it an adverb.
That would make it an adverb.
Mr. Vohol said, will your April Fool's video just be re-uploading this?
Perfect.
Combining two buttons is one thing.
Combining a button with an analog stick, or some other fine grain input device,
opens up a whole new world of fun.
Oh god.
Now, in any game about moving around a space,
you're going to have a relationship between movement and many of the game's key verbs.
Because the customer's punch is just a pointless swing at thin air
if you haven't first moved him next to an opponent.
Every time he says verb, I just have to rethink that sentence and replace it with action.
I know that's it.
Your punch is pointless.
Whenever he says verb, you have to redo the sentence with the actual word to be like,
what did he just say?
Why did he just say it to me?
Did he just make the video harder to understand?
Like, I have to translate it.
It's like he wrote a fictional language, then made the video in that video
in that language and provided a translation sheet.
I'm going to do this video in the linkage.
I just need to navigate your character next to the target in the press the punch button
or else you would just be swinging your fist at air.
I'm sorry.
Punch button?
You mean verb button, right?
Verb button.
Verb punch.
Don't mind me.
I'm just going to verb your face.
To verb your face.
So you don't want to get a verb waiting for you.
Stop verbing yourself.
Stop verbing yourself.
Stop verbing yourself.
Oh, I'm going to have to have a, I'm going to have to verb when this is done.
You haven't first.
The verbs are always next to an opponent.
But games, you know, when you're a kid and you get those like puzzles that were every letter
of the alphabet had been replaced with like another symbol and you had to translate sentences,
this video is literally that.
No, not even that.
Not even, no, not even that.
That requires some level of thought, some level of time.
Well, I was going to say this like, this requires thought to actually understand what he's saying.
And then when you put the thought in, you realize something you can say.
No, like only in the sense that you have to be able to speak English.
Well, I'm in game design.
This is stuff you cover in year one of high school.
I don't know what are you smoking when he talks about verbs.
We don't have a verb in either programming or design.
When you say this is the stuff you cover in year one of high school,
I struggle to believe they spend more than a second on something like this.
They don't wait until high school to teach you this stuff.
I don't.
This is like, welcome to second grade, children.
Tomorrow, letters and colors.
That's right.
Yeah.
Like the idea that you go to high school to learn about game design,
the equivalent would be you go to high school to learn about literature and then they go,
letters can be put together to construct words.
You're like, thank you.
By constructing the letters in different orders,
you can create new words and new words can have new meanings.
Now let's learn about verbs.
Here's an example of a word, but if you take the letter out,
then you get a different word.
Now let's explore that word and what it means.
It's changing the word.
It changes the meaning conveyed by the word.
You can use different words next to each other to make sentences.
Did you know that you could take two numbers and add them together to get an even larger number?
But if you take a negative number and add it to a number, you'd get a smaller number.
This is called...
And then we're opening up a whole new world.
Your homework count to 10.
However, instead of subtract, we're going to use the word Bob.
What is five Bob three?
I don't know about what verbs you're using.
Shame movie video.
We're watching.
Fuck it.
Just when you pay attention, he's teaching us thin air.
If you haven't first moved him next to an opponent.
But games can forge an even deeper connection, which brings us back to this guy.
Oh, it's Mario.
Become full circle, folks.
Here we go, guys.
The answer might surprise us.
Let's learn the secret of Mario's jump.
The angle and distance of Mario's jump is directly connected to his horizontal direction
and speed before you press the A button.
The only way to clear a massive gap, then, is to start with a run-up.
What he just said is the jump changes based on how fast you're going
and in which direction you're going.
Did you know that a running jump is longer than a standing jump?
Literally, if you can move and jump,
what he just said is true for every single game that exists.
Oh, my goodness.
Some games you can do a standing jump that's just as far as a run-up jump.
To get detailed about Mario's jumping abilities would separate it from other games,
but with that introduction where he's like, depending on the angle and speed,
it'll change the jump and it's like, there's very few games that does not apply to.
Like, I've just put it out there.
Press the A button.
The only way to clear a massive gap, then, is to start with a run-up.
You can also move in mid-air and perform different jumps
by starting with a spin or an abrupt turn.
So, back in Donkey Kong, you could effectively just turn Mario's left and right jumps.
How is this a secret?
It's one of the common times in the game.
No, maybe this isn't it.
No, no, no.
Maybe this is the secret.
How dare you, Jay?
He'll tell us what the secret is.
He'll sign post-its.
Yeah, we don't know if this is the secret or not.
Is the secret of Mario's name?
No, no, no.
The secret is you have to dig deeper.
You have to...
Jay, you're making assumptions.
You have to get deeper into the video.
Taking his verbs out of context.
You could effectively just turn Mario's left and right jumps
into dedicated buttons on the arcade cabinet.
But in every other Mario game...
For anybody saying he is right, we're not saying he's wrong.
Yeah, we're not saying he's wrong.
We're saying...
It's like if...
It's like if I walked into...
Like, if I went back to college and I took, like, a math course,
and the first lesson was about, like, addition.
The principles of addition.
Adding two smaller numbers together gets you a larger number.
That would be like, I wouldn't disagree.
I would probably know why I'm here.
But it takes, like...
It takes, like, less than a minute or 30 seconds to explain that concept.
Not a 12-minute video.
It doesn't even take time to explain.
It's just self-evident knowledge.
Right.
But yeah, it's not something you can expand into a 12-minute video.
It's not necessary.
Good cabinet.
But in every other Mario game, the D-pad or analog stick allows for such a nuanced
modification of your leap that the two...
Oh, um, I think we're significantly out of sync.
If you want to drag it back, drag so that it...
No, don't...
Where are you?
Well, I'm on...
I'm on 8.20 right now.
Oh, I was on 8.25.
I'm on 8.25, which means I have five less seconds of this torture.
I'm at 8.20 now.
All right, let me go to 8.20.
He's got the thing on screen, or he's got...
Wait, now on 8.25.
The two...
There's on 8.20 for me now still.
All right.
8.20, yeah.
Yeah, I think we're all good.
...must be kept separate.
Mario's jump can also combine with the crouch button for all sorts of new moves.
Crouch and then jump for a tall backflip.
Or crouch while running before jumping for a long jump.
Or crouch in mid-air.
There was a seven-minute intro to this.
None of this is wrong.
None of this is wrong.
It's fine.
There were seven minutes of context available, like, necessary.
None of this is wrong.
In order for you to understand this, we need to...
It makes me want to do different things.
...how to aim down your eyes.
There's really seven minutes of context for...
These are buttons.
You...
Listen...
When you push them, things happen.
Listen, Jay, I need you to understand, after this video is done, I have to go to...
Like, I have to go out in public.
I have to go outside, and I have to do things with people.
And, you know at the...
Okay, you know at the end of The Lord of the Rings...
Where I can't...
Wolf isn't here, but he'll get it.
You guys will get it too.
You've seen The Lord of the Rings, right, Jay?
I have.
So, you have?
I have. I've seen it now.
The first one.
Oh.
Oh.
You haven't seen it.
You have to see all three.
Spoiler alert, the good guys win.
But at the end of The Lord of the Rings...
Hobbits are going to be shyer.
And they're like, no one can understand what we've been through, right?
Like, we'll never be the same.
We're changed.
Nobody.
No one here.
Like, we're...
They're hobbits like us.
They're smiling.
They're laughing.
We're having a good time.
But we've been changed by all of the things that we've done.
And nobody can understand that except us, right?
That's how I'm going to feel when I walk outside in public.
Because I have to go get food in a grocery shop.
I'm going to be in the supermarket.
And there's going to be...
There's going to be other people out there getting their groceries.
But they won't know what I've been through.
And they won't understand the things that I've seen and done.
The PTSD help group.
But they're all explaining their horrible stories.
They're all like, I watched a Mark Brown video from start to finish.
And they're all like...
When you're grocery shopping, you're just going to have a voice in the back of your head
when you're picking up groceries going, this is a carrot.
You can buy a carrot with other foods.
And you can use a knife on a carrot to make the carrot smaller.
But if you mix carrots with other vegetables, then things get really exciting.
If carrots between bread, sandwich.
Carrot sandwich.
Carrot sandwich.
Who the fuck eats carrot sandwiches?
Mark Brown.
The fuck Mark Brown in his brown hole.
Avocados go off really quickly.
They're the cooking grenades of food.
When you hold the aim button, it makes you more accurate.
Press L to aim the avocado.
So anyway, let's learn about Mary's other jumps before we find out the secrets.
Now people are putting carrot sandwiches in the chat.
I almost said bread sandwiches.
Which is a piece of bread.
In between two pieces of bread.
I don't see how the verb fits into all that.
That's a lot of carbs.
What the carrot is for, it counters the carbs.
Okay.
You can cut the carrot just like a grenade.
Who wants a grilled carrot sandwich?
What are those creatures on the wheel?
Are those mice?
Yes.
Yeah.
I think.
I'll accept that with no further questions.
For a tool backflip or crouch.
Well, it looks like he's far from he's charging.
Crouch in midair for a ground pound, which can transition into another springy leap.
That might sound complicated, but there are.
No, no, no, no, no, no, Mark.
No, no, no.
It does not sound complicated.
It sounds like you're explaining video games to either an eight year old person
or an 88 year old person.
What's that?
Okay.
You can press the jump button.
What's that mean?
No grandpa.
How grandad it seems really complicated.
You just listen.
Why is this Italian man on my video screen?
What do you mean, verb?
What's that?
What do you mean verb?
How come those plants are biting the Italian man?
What's all this bell carrots?
Why do I gotta be an Italian man?
What's that about?
Which can transition into another springy leap.
That might sound complicated, but there are a few things to note.
One is that the moves feel like the natural outcome of the combined verbs.
So this is the move.
Shut the fuck up.
I have to play that again.
He fucking fascinates me with this shit.
One is that the moves feel like the natural outcome of the combined verbs.
The moves feel like the natural outcome of the combined verbs.
I don't even know what I can add on to that to make it more stupid.
I feel like adding on to that will take away from the condensed idiocy.
So like the moves, meaning what Mario is doing,
feel like the natural outcome of the combined verbs, meaning the buttons.
He's making it more complicated.
The natural outcome.
They feel natural.
And it's like, I guess what he means, like you spin the analog stick.
Mario spins when he jumps.
If you do the back forward, you do back flips.
Like, oh, I can see what you mean.
The way he condensed that is the moves feel like the natural outcome of the combined verbs.
You're like, what the fuck's that thing supposed to mean?
Well, that's what I'm saying.
It's like, I think I translated him.
But my God, what the hell?
It only makes sense that if you crouch and then jump, you'll go higher.
Also, you know, certain games where you can like jump in midair and that's like the double jump.
How is that natural at all?
Because you push off of the air beneath you to jump again.
Oxygen particles in the air.
Yes, the oxygen particles.
No, no, mostly nitrogen.
It's not. Yeah, I was going to say mostly nitrogen.
Would please be scientifically accurate on the show for once.
Please. This is not a Mark Brown video.
We have we are gamers.
We've done this before, but I absolutely love it with video essays.
When you take a sentence out from the collection and you know that a lot of people and I would do
the same thing, you just didn't really think about it.
And then you think about it and you're like, the moves feel like the natural outcome of
the combined verbs.
You just stare at that sentence and it falls into a void.
Well, what then some other guy was like, I don't fucking know.
I'm just enjoying the video.
Leave me alone.
For instance, let's take let's take the let's take the sentence to kill yourself.
Right.
For yourself.
Really, it's really it's like a it's like it is a sentence that you is understood.
Kill is the verb.
Yourself is the direct object.
Kill yourself.
Just call yourself an object.
Yes, I've been used as an object.
Objectifying and amazing objectifying people.
If you chat, if you've never been used as an object, you should try it.
What object have you been used as as a fucking.
I'm picturing a toothbrush.
I don't know why have you been the carrot between the bread.
I put someone put the carrot between my bread and my buns.
You bet they fucking did.
I was a carrot sandwich.
I put my carrot in your buns.
Grill me, daddy.
Come of the combined.
So this isn't an excuse to squeeze yet another action onto the controller
by having it be the outcome of pressing two unrelated buttons.
Instead, by thinking of it in terms of combining verbs instead of combining.
No, that adds an extra layer.
No, that makes it more complicated because instead of your body just going,
oh, I'm going to press these two buttons.
This happens.
You're like, no, I can find these verbs.
Some sort of another action you predetermined.
If I combine, you mean some sort of a predetermined.
No, that's stupid.
Mark, nobody does this.
And if they tell you they do it, they're lying.
I kind of want to make a response video to this or one of his videos where
instead of like actually making any points about it,
I just explain everything he says in great detail.
But instead of saying, oh, this is what he said,
I say this is the wordification he used.
You just need a glossary.
You just need to provide people a glossary of what the words actually.
As you watch this video, feel free to follow along in the compendium
that I have linked in the description.
Press wide open the legend introduction and prologue to the Mark Brown series.
I have instead by thinking of it in terms of combining verbs.
Wait, wait, for a second, I didn't think boomerangs would have come back.
Oh, I was a little worried.
You guys are on eight forty nine right now.
I'm on eight forty.
Yeah.
I'm not used to squeeze yet another action onto the controller
by having it be the outcome of pressing two unrelated buttons.
Thinking of it in terms of combining verbs instead of combining buttons,
it's easier to think about what move would intuitively arise from their combination.
The other thing you almost never need to do any of these advanced moves
to get to the end of a Mario game.
They're just extra skills for pro players who want to express themselves.
Yeah, if you want to be like the pros like the pro.
If I go to play as you want to clarify about the verbs, they'll know exactly what I'm talking about.
He's described it as the pro moves and he said that it's complicated to understand
and people are saying this is for basic entry level developers.
Like, OK, this is like for people entering life.
Entering life like an infant is just entering life.
So you give them this video if you want them to be like like this is the kind of video
like a Korean lady puts on her pregnant belly when she wants her child to grow up
to become the Starcraft pro so that before little before a little Kim,
I don't know Korean names grow.
He has an understanding of game mechanics thanks to thanks to the Yankee Mark Brown.
I mean, he's doing a service.
He's doing service.
This is what the pro gamers are doing, man.
I want to learn about this pro players who want to express themselves
or collect certain secrets or reduce their completion time.
No, what's the secret?
Wait, sorry.
What are these?
What he's he was like, so that.
These are all different ways to make verbs that are incredibly versatile.
And with these, you can make actions that force the player to make loads of rapid fire decisions
or give the player really expressive verbs that can be used to overcome all sorts of situations.
There are other benefits, too.
In Luftrausers, for example, you could heal your ship by pressing a dedicated button
or by picking up health packs.
Shoot for don't the button to the shoot.
It's not a fucking verb.
It's a button.
Don't say that.
No one says that.
If you go into a party, listen, if you get this like one of those shitty 90s VHS tapes,
if you go to a party and you say, hey, can you verb me that drink?
Then everybody is going to look at you weird because why is he using this word?
This doesn't make any sense.
If you go to a game conference and you refer to the buttons as verbs,
people are going to look at you weird and you're not going to get laid
and no one's going to invite you back.
No one's going to know what you're talking about because no one says that.
And you don't even say this, Mark.
You don't even say this yourself.
After this video, you never ever in your life refer to a button as a verb.
That's so fucking stupid.
It's a button.
The button is buttons and noun.
Silent doers.
There's a lot to take it, especially if you're not a pro player.
Maybe it's just because I'm not a professional video game player, man.
But that's why I don't call the buttons verbs because I understand what a noun is.
Sorry.
If the actions of verbs and the buttons and nouns, what adjectives and how do they fit in?
Yeah.
I still can't wait for the guy to make a follow up video about adverbs.
That's the interesting part.
I think this is the entry level.
That's the no way you take a verb and you add another you add verbs to verbs.
It makes more verbs.
This is like addition in mathematics mathematics mathematics.
I forgot the word.
I always said math magician.
Hey, hey, smaller.
Did you ever see Donald Duck in Math Magic Land?
No, I didn't.
All right.
There's an old there's an old show where Donald Duck goes to Math Magic Land.
And it's like it's like a phantom toll booth kind of video movie.
It's kind of like that.
And he learns about like math and numbers and angles and things, except it's Donald Duck.
It's by Disney.
They own Donald Duck.
You should watch it.
Is it more informative than this?
I need you if he has anyone seen Donald Duck in Math Magic Land.
If so, press Donald Duck, the Donald Duck verb.
There you go.
There's a duck emoji.
They got it.
But by linking heel to the shoot verb, the game gets rid of a lot of clutter and complexity.
A lot of clutter.
Versatile verbs let you do more.
That's just like that's like something EA would say.
Buttons are clutter.
Let's dumb everything down.
So the fucking idiot.
Buttons are clutter.
Just one button for everything.
Buttons are with less.
These verbs are also quite satisfying to use, whether that's the tactile thrill of squeezing
your NES controller to make Mario jump higher or the breathless tension of letting go of the
shoot button and devil daggers to make gems attract you.
So that's why devil daggers wasn't it?
Yep.
There you go.
You've got the satisfying arc.
I've played devil daggers.
I play devil daggers.
How long have I played devil daggers?
I have played devil daggers for 12 hours.
I have 12 hours of my life has been spent on devil daggers.
Or as I call them devil duckers.
Did you understand the verbs of devil daggers?
No, I just was like, I'm not retarded.
I'm like, Hey, if I don't, gems come to me.
Oh, well, I mean, that's, that's the extent of how much I thought about it,
because it's so just self-evidently obvious what it is.
I didn't have to make a 12 minute video about, Oh, I think that we've learned a lot today in
that case.
Thanks.
You didn't know that it was a verb.
That's what it is.
I knew it was a verb.
I just didn't call it that.
No, just piece of shit.
You admitted you're not a pro player.
No, I'm not a pro player.
But one might make the mistake because I have such skills.
Tune of letting go of the shoot button and devil daggers to make gems.
It's called the shoot verb.
You piece of shit.
How about a little consistency?
For the thumb gymnastics of linking up combo attacks.
The thumb gymnastics.
Literally.
Of linking combo button.
We're all at the same place right now.
No, we're not at the same place right now.
We are not at the same place at this moment.
You're in a very bad place right now.
I'm in a bad place.
The chat's worried about you.
I'm home, but I'm in a bad place.
Something's wrong.
If you need it.
The bomb is supposed to be a good place.
We're nearly there, I think.
So you're linking up combo attacks in your favorite brawler.
But there are drawbacks to keep in mind too.
These versatile verbs can be troublesome.
Oh my god.
You could have, yes, you could have some disabled retard
have problems with your game.
Yes.
I mean, yeah, I suppose.
Sure.
Or if somebody was born without hands,
they might have trouble with their thumb gymnastics combos.
Jesus Christ.
By definition, yes.
They need thumbs to keep in mind too.
These versatile verbs can be troublesome for those with
discomfort or disability issues that can arise from holding buttons,
pressing multiple buttons, or repeatedly tapping buttons.
Yeah, if you have a disability.
Yeah, if you have a disability is that bad?
Please don't press a button.
I'm telling you.
Look, pro gamers all out there.
If you cannot press buttons, pressing buttons is difficult.
Oh my goodness.
This is like a-
This is like-
Imagine someone being like, yeah, if you want to,
it might be harder to be a professional if you're-
No.
Sorry.
If you're disabled.
From Elvick, hence being a disability.
Yeah, a disabled, disabled.
It's like abled, but dis, disability.
It's not like a, what's the opposite of a, it's a prefix.
Pro gamers rise up.
What would be the opposite of a dis?
A suffix.
No, no, no, that's the opposite of a prefix.
What would be the opposite of dis?
Like, if you weren't disabled, you'd be like super abled.
Pro sub sub con.
Pro abled.
Right?
No, the opposite of dis is just not having a prefix.
I was going to say, isn't it?
No, no, no, it's, no, no, if you were going the other way with it.
Like, disabled means you're less abled.
But what if you were more abled?
Monty said enable as in disabled.
No, enable is a verb.
Come full circle.
I don't fucking know what's happening.
No, we haven't gone full circle.
Enable isn't a verb.
It's a button.
Oh, what about, yeah, disabled and extra abled as in.
Extra abled.
Like, you're either neutral would be abled.
Disabled is the negative.
And then the pro is like Iron Man.
You get boosted by ASUS.
You're pro abled.
I'm going to get it.
You're saying it's negative to be disabled more?
It is negative.
Yes, it is by definition.
That's why you call it a disability because something's wrong with you.
Something's not.
Listen, that doesn't mean you're less of a person
or that you don't get to vote or anything like that.
Or you have to sit at the back of the bus or you can get anything like that.
All it means is that you're just not as abled as what you should do with normal people are.
And that's okay.
That's why we that's why you have ramps.
Normal is offensive.
It does mean you're less of a person if you're like missing part of a body
because then like, from a strict quantity point of view, there's less person there.
It's less than you racist.
I mean, that's like saying that big people are more are more of a person.
People are less of a person.
Fat people are more people than skinny people.
Fat people get more human rights than skinny.
I never said it relates to human rights.
Yeah, you've opened the catawans.
Fat people are the most people people.
I think I think we opened the catawans as soon as the word disabled came into the stream.
I did not.
I mean, if you take up more than one seat anywhere, you should have more persons.
You deserve two votes.
Yeah, if you weigh as much as two people, you get to vote twice.
But it also means you get you know, it means you don't get drafted twice.
What if what if one of you gets drafted?
That means that two normal size people have to be drafted in your place.
This is so stupid.
So there's a video that we were talking about at one point.
But Mark, bring it home.
What's the secret of marriage to rise from holding buttons,
pressing multiple buttons or repeatedly tapping buttons?
I'd recommend checking the game accessibility guidelines for more on this.
I'm definitely doing so by looking at Mario's jump through this lens.
We can see how this one verb can be modified.
What's the lens describing?
I like how Mario just died there as well.
But they just cut it off before he died.
Missed all those, missed all those coins as well.
Don't play that on noise.
Mario's even looking.
He's like, look at this big fucking spacebar question right above my head.
He doesn't even just take it through this lens.
We can see how this one verb can be modified.
Depending on whether you press or hold the button,
whether you transition from or into different verbs,
whether you're holding the run button before you hit jump.
Yeah.
I'm going to transition from the verb watching to the verb not watching.
Hey man, he's doing his summary.
We went through all these.
It's like a nice callback.
No, what do you mean the summary?
What's the secret?
That's a nice, no, wait, I'm sure we're getting it.
I am sure we are seconds from it.
I'm sure of it.
Depending on how you move the analog stick before and during his leap.
Plus, if you're wearing the raccoon suit,
you can choose to hold the button to float or release it to drop immediately.
And in Mario's other games, like Super Mario 64,
you can even press the jump button repeatedly.
You can combine verbs together to create another little graph.
You can press jump in the name.
It's a triple jump.
It's in the name.
It's like jumping.
We wouldn't have known how to do that.
If you hadn't told us, you can press a button more than once.
It's got a little weird jump, jump, triple jump.
You press the jump button three times.
It makes a three jump happen.
I just love it.
It's just one plus one plus one is three with good timing to unleash a ridiculous triple.
I mean, you may not get it, guys.
I don't think you do.
You're not pro gamers.
Did you know that if you know that power upside down is mud?
I did.
Shit.
Mine's triplone.
This intense level of versatility means that before Nintendo even designs a single level,
I like you, Mario's jump is fun, satisfying, and expressive.
And it does all that with just a tiny handful of buttons.
And so is Super Mario.
And so is a secret.
No, no, no, you motherfucker.
You better fucking tell me.
Don't you give me this shit about maybe if you take it a angle, look at you, this range of life.
And you see that this guy, I swear to God.
He's going to give you your payoff for after eleven and a half minutes.
What the fucking secret of Mario's jump is.
I'm going to go fucking bat shit.
Are you saying that this isn't you going back shit already?
Because I want to see that.
No, I won't.
No, I don't even have the energy at this point.
It'll just me.
It'll just be me alone in this room with alcohol.
All right.
All right.
All right.
Let's get this.
All I want to know is that I want to know what Mario's secret is.
I want to know where the Italian fucking store is gold.
Yeah.
Satisfying and expressive.
And it does all that with just a tiny handful of buttons.
And so is this the secret to Mario's jump?
Don't fucking ask me.
Sort of.
It's definitely a big part of the equation, but there's a bit more to it than that.
Yes.
And more things to consider when making engaging verbs.
Yes.
So consider this video part one of sorts.
Oh, fuck a son of a bitch.
There's no part two, by the way.
What do you mean there's no part two?
What's the secret?
Is it?
What you mean next time there is no part two.
There's no secret secret of ours.
Jump to.
So we we never get to find out the secret and that's how it's a secret.
It wouldn't be a secret.
Be secret.
Now would it?
Ha ha ha.
Give me more money on Patreon is like, why?
Why would you do this?
Just need to buy the rights to it and then make part two.
Disney by the rights to Mark Brown in chat.
You got why laugh my fucking ass off.
F F F fucking 10 K on page.
I just don't.
I don't understand how you can make a video called the secret of Mario's fucking.
I don't mean to click and go there.
I mean, the secret of Mario's jump.
I expect and I don't I don't think that this is me being unreasonable.
I don't think that I'm asking for too much.
I just expect that if you make a video called the secret of Mario's fucking jump,
right, then I want that.
Then in that video, there's going to be the secret of Mario's jump.
As I get you go on a vacation.
Fucking Cairo and you make a vlog called the best thing that I did at Cairo
and the video is about your slumber party in Honolulu.
Then I'm going to be a little upset because I feel like I've been taken on a trip.
Yeah, this was some serious clickbait.
Hello, CJ.
I thought you were like you were considered this could be boring to cover.
I was.
Yeah.
I was just like, what's he saying?
I knew that rags and wolf would find this totally inoffensive,
but I suppose it's also aggravating as well because it is so inoffensive.
No, it is offensive.
This video offends me.
Well, it definitely subverted your expectation.
Yeah, because it said it would do something and it didn't.
All right.
All right.
Let's listen to his explanation again.
It'll make you really happy.
It's that before Nintendo even designs a single level,
Mario's jump is fun, satisfying, and expressive.
And it does all that with just a tiny handful of buttons.
And so is this the secret to Mario's jump?
Well, sort of.
It's definitely a big part of the equation, but there's a bit more to it than that,
and more things to consider when making engaging verbs.
So consider this video a part one of sorts,
and I'll be back in the future with more ways to make more interesting actions for your games.
Yeah, but what about Mario's jump?
You're so fucking stupid, like, I fucking hate your face.
Oh, Mario's jump.
That's what we came to see.
I'll be here to teach you how to make games by explaining mechanics
that are so ubiquitous that I've been around for 30 fucking years.
So, I mean, it's such a special video,
and it's kind of hard to explain exactly why,
because again, it's not wrong.
It's not exactly wrong.
Do you think he just played the tutorial or read a manual and went,
if someone, hmm, I can make a video about this.
I can make a video about this, Mario manual.
Listen, if someone told me,
I'm making a game, and I want to get some advice on how to make my game.
Do you know where I could get some good advice?
I'd be like, you should watch Mark Brown videos,
and like, you should watch, really?
I'd say, no, ha ha, no, you should watch anything else.
Literally anything else,
because you won't learn anything from a Mark Brown video.
If you're at the stage where you're ready to create a video game,
encode it, and you know the story and the characters,
and you're ready with the money,
you got the loans out, and you're ready to hire people,
then you're not going to be fucking sitting around learning about,
ooh, double jump.
Learning about the verbs.
Learning about verbs.
Let's just close out this last three seconds to make sure,
but I don't know what it's going to be.
This sort of video, please consider supporting me on Patreon.
Listen, comfy hat,
Tam McDonald, Philippe Linz, Michael Oer, Kay, Josh,
fuck all of you.
I hope you're happy.
I hope that you're happy giving this man money on Patreon,
and he didn't even fuck...
You tell me, if any of you in the chat give...
Statistically, one of you fuckers is.
One of you people who's giving to this guy on Patreon.
Tell me the secret of Mario's Jump, please.
Maybe it's a Patreon exclusive,
and I'm just not... I didn't pay enough money to get it.
So if you could tell me what the secret of Mario's Jump is,
I'd appreciate that.
You could email me at 1-800-G-E-T-R-A-G-S at gmail.com.
1-800-GIT-RAGS at gmail.com.
Email me the answer to the secret of Mario's Jump
if you give to this man on Patreon,
because you're so satisfied with his work.
All right?
That's where you can reach me.
I will await your response with baited breath.
I'm not one of his Patreons,
but I feel like, in my opinion, he owes me money.
I watch this for free, and I feel like I should get my money back.
Yeah, I guess that's it,
because that's just going to be a Patreon plug.
So what do you think, guys?
That's Mark Brown for you.
I think he's probably going to say more in the Patreon plug
than the rest of the video.
I genuinely believe that he was just reading out of game manuals.
Yeah, exactly.
And just put them together in full video.
From a Mario game, and he just read it.
Oh, hey, I can make a point out of this.
I can make a video that's more than 10 minutes.
I'm going to call it a verb and set up a button,
because it'll be plagiarism.
Fuck you.
Oh, I'm going to use a fancy word to show that I'm smart.
I'm not a usual gamer.
I'm a serious analyst.
Oh, yeah, I'm really smart.
I'm very intelligent.
I think that there's a little...
I think Mark is aware of how fundamentally
baseline these things are.
And he presents it so attractively.
His graphics...
But it's so, it must be so unsatisfactory.
He must be sitting in his room alone with his cats,
and he must be thinking to himself,
why am I doing...
What am I doing?
This is, this guy reminds me of...
Some people who animated the Emoji Movie,
feel like I have so much talent, and here I am.
He reminds me of Behind the Meme.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Sort of.
Just...
Well, wasn't it you who said,
Gamer from Mars at the beginning, right?
Gamer from Mars, yeah.
Yeah.
Wait, whatever happened to this guy?
Well, this is who he is, and this is his entire history,
and then one minute at the end is, yeah.
See the grade A under A one from Gamer from Mars?
No, I didn't.
It's like the best example of what he does.
In fact, why not, since we've got some...
It's really short.
Gamer from Mars, grade A.
He's made like a million on him,
hoping to...
All the more relevant now,
because grade has come back.
I think it's what happened to grade A under A.
He's got the death of grade A under A,
and what happened to grade A under A,
and they're both the same fucking length.
I don't know which one was five months ago.
Okay, that's probably the one I was watching.
All right, Gamer from Mars, let's check you out.
You'll love this, Rags.
This is the Mark Brown of YouTube drama.
I feel like he looks like the Mark Brown of YouTube drama.
So like, just going in,
if you're remotely aware of grade A,
what you will know,
like what everyone will know if you're vaguely aware,
is that he got really popular from making videos
that were like explaining simple things
in a funny way with edgy humor.
He got involved with Leafy against Keemstar.
Drama exploded in several ways.
He disappeared.
That is the most basic storyline you could possibly take.
That's like, that's it.
Let's see, Gamer from Mars.
Wait, does a grade A under A make like,
he's only have like a million subs.
Millions, yeah.
But Gamer from Mars is going to explain to us
what happened to grade A under A, all right?
He's back now, by the way,
which is going to make this video even funnier.
Yeah.
Before I start the video right now,
I just want to ask you to please go and vote for me
on the My Road Reel competition for the wooden man.
There's not much time left in the contest,
and I'm begging you, we're in second place right now.
I hate it when people do stuff like this
at the start of the video.
What's a wooden man?
So, I think this is like a video contest,
and he's asking his fans to go vote for him,
which kind of skews the contest, but okay.
I think it's also funny as well.
Someone mentioned this in the chat,
actually, Quinton made two videos on grade A,
and that's what made him big in the first place.
Yeah.
Quinton also made a video parodying Gamer from Mars.
Yes, he did.
Interesting, isn't it?
I can plot how Quinton was like,
he became one of the people Quinton would have gone after.
You're the dire hero, or you live along
to see yourself become the villain.
But if every single person watching this video
went and voted for me...
That's another one of my pet peeves,
just the whole,
if everyone watching this video did X line.
Does he do anything like Martian?
Oh, no, the Mars part of his name doesn't come into anything.
The Gamer from Mars, like, does he wear a costume?
No, no, no.
Or does he, like, is in his spaceship?
He used to make gaming videos,
and that was just his name when he was making them,
and it just, it just stuck.
It has nothing to do with his content.
It has nothing to do with the celestial body, really.
Nope.
Every single person watching this video
went and voted for me and voted for my film,
we would get up to number one,
and we would win the grand prize,
which is a ton of equipment
that could help improve this channel.
So please click on the link in the description to go vote.
It only takes a minute of your time,
and I would really appreciate it.
I've been meaning to make a video on this subject for a while now
to see if we could all have a consensus
that the Ray Day Under 8 channel is just a fucking robot.
He's, like, tonaled.
He's devoid of personality.
He just is gaming from Mars.
I just want to land this kind of commentary channel,
you can imagine.
But, like, I'm hoping to let this sort of-
Listen here, hey, no, no, no, fuck you.
Hayden, Hayden Dill in the chat.
What is Rags?
It's my fucking name.
What does Rags have to do with Rags, eh?
It's my name!
Yeah, I'd say if it was Rags from Mars,
people could be like, why did you-
If it was Rags from Mars, you might have a point,
because they don't have any Martian-related,
you know, comment on your content.
But Rags is my name.
So-
Yeah, I'm hoping to let this sort of run,
because it's just- there's no information.
That's the point of this.
Yeah.
Officially dead.
Addis Haiti was one of the-
You just said he's officially dead, by the way.
I bet you wonder what that even means.
He made a video two weeks ago and has, like, a million-
He's officially dead, Rags.
What the fuck?
I hope I'm officially dead soon.
He will be by the end of this.
Addis Haiti was one of the fastest-growing channels in the world,
but he hasn't uploaded a proper episode in a year and a half.
And I think we should all start to come to terms with the fact that he probably isn't-
I'm from USA.
Well-
It's such a pointless video.
Yes, I've already done a what happened to video on the channel.
I don't want to repeat myself-
He's totally not reading a script with how his eyes stay exactly the same
position, no matter how much he moves his head.
I find it so distracting.
It's actually very creepy.
Yeah.
Too much with this information.
But to put it simply, during the rise of internet culture channels in 2016,
Grade was at the top of the list with each one of his videos-
And it's like nothing interesting in the background either.
It's just a fucking door.
You know why?
So that he doesn't have to put something on screen.
It's just done already.
It's easy.
By 2017, however, he started to slow down.
Yep.
Until the channel just stopped altogether.
You said that already?
This was odd considering the amount of money he was still pulling in.
Naturally, by being one of the fastest growing channels.
His Patreon alone could have comfortably sustained him.
Right.
But on top of that, the channel was bringing in tens of millions of views a month.
Naturally.
To put it into perspective, he was making more money in one month
than most people make in a complete year.
Yes.
But then he just-
Making this a pointless video.
While I don't have the inside scoop on exactly why he left,
one of the big things you need to understand about Grade was that he really seemed to care
about what people were saying about him.
To the point that it was a-
We nearly like, we like molded a thing all the way through and it's just nothing you get so far.
From what I've heard, he spent a lot of time obsessing over his subreddit,
looking over what people were saying about him on there and how many upvotes they received.
Okay.
On some occasions, he actually argued with people.
He actually argued with people at some point.
He actually argued with people.
It's of course not necessarily a bad thing to be aware of how others perceive you.
Thank you for that.
Oh, he's just like Mark Brown.
It's classic.
You just hear these lines.
You're like, this is just filler.
They have no idea what else to say.
Attempt to change that.
But as a YouTuber, you need to draw a lot of lines with how far you're willing to go.
If not, it will control you.
For example, in my content, thousands of people misrepresenting my beliefs.
Or in some cases, just flat out-
Oh wait, you guys are like a good eight seconds ahead of me.
Can someone draw it back to like 210?
Okay.
Yeah, I can do that.
Okay, 210.
Yeah, yeah.
What is this guy's personality?
He's like a robot.
A carrot between two pieces of bread.
What are you willing to do?
If not, it will control you.
For example, in my comments, I can find thousands of people misrepresenting my beliefs.
A bread between two breads.
Or in some cases, just flat out-slandering me.
But I can't let it bother me too much because I know it's something that you just have to put up with.
It's a low key response to criticism.
I can't say for sure, but I think at some point, the money stopped being a factor for him.
In fact, even with the channel now dead, the ad revenue probably is still enough for him to live
comfortably off of for the rest of his life.
If he was no longer enjoying this and the money wasn't an issue, it makes sense that he would stop.
The thing that's separate-
All he's established is he made loads of money and makes enough money to have not continued making money.
He said absolutely nothing.
He's offered no proof whatsoever.
I don't know why he stopped.
I don't have any inside scoop, but it's likely that this is what happened.
Look at the extrapolation.
He'll probably never come back.
He has millions of subscribers.
He makes a lot of money.
He has enough money to not make videos.
It's funny that the strongest statement he's made so far that he's definitely not coming back.
And then the only thing that gives you insight into this man's character is when he randomly goes,
people misrepresent my beliefs in the comments section.
He's like, wait, what does this have to do with grade A?
It's like looking at a younger Mark Zuckerberg.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sends that he would stop.
The thing that separates grade A under A from other dead channels
was that he promised he was coming back, then never did.
He promised he was, but maybe the first time was in May of 2017.
So he said, did you get this?
He's like, he made a video saying he would come back, but he didn't.
Here's the first one.
This is a clip.
You're like, oh my God, you shove so much filler into this and it's six minutes.
It's almost like he was trying to get it to 10 minutes, but even he couldn't manage.
Get it to 10.
Even with them getting his fans hopes up, he never came back.
At least there was one entertaining part of this video.
Yeah, I was going to say even that small clip was more detailed.
Who the fuck is this gamer?
A month later, though, he made a second video promising you.
Why don't you use your YouTube ad revenue and buy a fucking personality?
They cost a lot these days to come back.
Oh, gee, that'll do.
But what's all that season two stuff about?
He's like, he didn't come back.
Then he made another video saying he was going to come back.
Here's a clip of it.
This turned out to be yet another letdown for subscribers.
I really don't know what's going on in this video, but like many other YouTubers
that have found success, they realize that there are downsides and he hasn't been able
to work through them.
The only thing I know for sure is that it's been a year since his promise of season two,
and I now feel comfortable confirming the death of Grade A.
The only questions we can figure out are who are those 54 people that are still giving him
money on Patreon?
I guess they're...
Wait, 112 a month?
Comfortable to live off of?
Sorry, wait, what?
Oh, he was talking about ad revenue.
No, he did mention the Patreon as well, but I guess that must have been...
Oh, he did, yes.
No, Yosh, you're right.
He did, yeah.
And I'm like, 100...
Where does he live?
Gondar?
Can't beat answers forever.
I can bet $112 a week.
The end!
We were in four minutes?
I bet there's two minutes.
There's a third of your video left.
Keep going, keep going, keep going.
Hey, everybody, and thank you so much for making it to the end of this video.
Today is really pretty.
We're not at the end!
We're not at the end, really, too.
Are you fucking serious?
He spent the first minute of the video plugging something.
Listen, like in my video, like my videos are too fucking long.
So if I get to the halfway point, then I could say thanks for making it this far.
Because by then, it's been like an hour or 45 minutes.
This guy's video is four minutes long.
He's like, thanks for making it to the four minute mark.
It's like, well, that shows you his target audience.
Making it to the four minute mark.
To be fair, it was still hard to make it through.
Kids, thanks for sitting still and watching.
In four minutes, you'd be done with my intro intro from the TFA critique.
Four minutes, you might be getting to the video I'm covering.
He's like thanking you for staying this long.
Thank you for bearing with me for four minutes.
Everything he said, if you had any interest in grade A, you would know all of those things.
I don't have any interest in grade A, positive or negative.
I just don't know about him much.
But I'm like, I learned nothing.
He said nothing.
He didn't say anything about the drama with Keem.
And he didn't say anything about the subreddit drama.
All he said was, he went away.
It's been a while.
Now, by the way, this is this is it for Game of Mars.
If anyone ever says, why don't you cover one of his videos?
You're like, this is why.
What is what is this last two minutes?
Shaded, as for the question of the day, somebody wants to know what social network
do I think is going to become irrelevant soon?
And the answer to that is actually a tricky one.
I would I would have said Facebook a while ago, but then I realized Facebook is still
growing in foreign markets.
So you just have to do the rest of the video.
But maybe the death of great day under a also talking about Facebook.
I'm so glad that I clicked on this video.
I know so much about great day under a.
I know about his personal life and his struggles.
And I know about the problems he's had with other YouTubers and what really motivates him.
I learned so much about great day under a.
Fuck you.
I think Twitter is probably the closest to becoming irrelevant.
I learned more about great day under a when you were giving me context to watch this video.
That's actually true.
That's not a joke.
Yeah, he called what you said is really a pedophile.
What you said is really funny because it is true.
I gave you more information than he gave you.
I didn't even tell you how popular over YouTube.
He is because it's not even relevant to whether or not he's dead.
You know, I mean, it's just like he's a big YouTuber.
He makes lots of money.
He doesn't make as much money anymore.
He makes enough to not make YouTube videos.
Anyway, guys, thanks for watching the video.
What does this have to do with any thanks for watching four minutes of my video?
I'd like to see a channel that does these kinds of things, but without panning it at all.
And it's just like 30 seconds video seconds.
Believe the few years ago that Twitter was almost dead or it was going to start dying.
But then what happened was Donald Trump started running for president and he started tweeting
all this crazy stuff all the time.
And the media picked so Donald Trump saved Twitter.
It's a hot take to add to this video.
Wait, he's mentioned Donald Trump without saying whether or not he hates him.
Yeah, you can't even like I can't even write down quotes to put in a parody video because
I don't think he even has is capable of having an opinion on Donald Trump.
So Donald Trump ran for president.
And lots of people thought he wasn't going to win, but he did.
And now he's the president.
I don't really have any inside information.
Dom correlation said is the life of bars?
No, no.
Oh, is it playing for you guys?
Yeah.
Stuck for me.
Wait, did he just suggest they should ban Donald Trump?
Could you imagine the controversy from Twitter?
If Twitter wants to make its inevitable death even faster, they could do that.
But I doubt it.
Could you ban the most powerful man in the world?
To be fair.
No, if they if they banned Donald Trump, they would become like so much smaller,
but they would become immortalism.
I know a lot of people claim that Twitter should ban Donald Trump.
They'd certainly be drawing a line in the sun.
The Martians have attacked the street.
Oh, I think I'm co-op to you guys now.
He suggests he's talking about whether or not they should ban Donald Trump.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm at five ten.
Yes.
In this video about the death of grade A underage.
That's correct.
Hey, I wonder who else did that?
Oh, that's actually beautiful.
That connection.
Wait, what?
Quinton.
It's just because Quinton parodied this guy.
Yeah, it's made fun of them.
Quinton did that.
Like a veering off of it.
This makes more sense in a weird way than what Quinton did.
But okay.
I'm sad because I tried to make the reference.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Twitter should ban Donald Trump.
I don't know.
Not the biggest expert on this because of him.
So I don't see Twitter ever banning Donald Trump because Donald Trump's probably the
greatest thing to ever happen to Twitter.
But that's just my view.
I'm not the biggest expert on this sort of thing.
I just really platform any other stuff I know a little bit about.
But yeah, I think that there is a keep going.
You'll eventually get to 10 minutes and get more mineralized.
You probably had a recording that was like 15 minutes with mistakes.
And then he cut it down.
He was like, Oh, shit.
Six minutes.
Let's take questions from the audience.
He's like, it's still six minutes.
Let's hand this out to six minutes.
Twitter.
That would be the end of the platform.
So good question.
And what is this music in the back?
It's like a man singing in an opera.
What the fuck is this?
What pisses me off is that that could have easily been filmed.
It's a couple of hours.
I can't believe that just happened.
That video would go good with this video.
That's sort of about the death of Randy Andre fucking Andre Bocelli.
Sing his opera or whatever.
Oh, you know what?
I feel like, I mean, I know you've already done it,
but I feel like you can make a very good episode with just his channel.
Rags will actually hunt him down and kill him if we did that.
I will find this.
I will find this man.
If anything, he's helped.
I'll bring him to justice.
Shit, the cons are out.
He's helped Mark Brown.
He's taken our, our ire off him a little bit.
Mark, you have this man to thank.
My firearm goes.
I mean, interesting day.
I got to do now.
I get to do the thing that he did in anthropoid where he loads the bullets back into the magazine.
Oh, yeah.
That's what I have to do right now.
Focus on the details.
Because I don't keep one in the chamber because the spring.
Keep one in the chamber of something else, I think you mean.
Um, so yeah, I'm going to read out some super chats because that is,
that is the point where that has a million views.
What?
See, that's what's most offensive about it is that he has a million views.
Yeah, he's managed to get so many views and subscribe making content like that.
You know, in fairness, this one's 260,000.
But I've just found one that has a million.
That's the other grade a video he made.
That's the reason why he made this one.
Wait, so hang on.
Does he say even less than that?
Oh, I don't know what that one covers.
What happened to grade under a and then the death of grade under a.
I don't think it's worth finding out.
I don't want to split that into two videos.
This is how I worked so hard on my videos.
I work.
I worked so hard on my videos to edit them and get everything together and the timing
and just the sheer length of them.
And this faggot just puts out six minutes of bullshit.
It's not even that because it's a black screen for the last 30 seconds.
He puts out five and a half minutes of him sitting in front of a webcam with his ugly
ass face telling us about stuff that isn't even related to the title.
And he gets two hundred sixty thousand views.
Fuck this shit.
Yeah, this is the sad reality of YouTube.
All of his most popular videos are like, here's some dead YouTube channels.
Here's some.
It's all it's all other people.
He just makes videos about people.
Yeah.
But it's the beliefs.
It's like, what are your beliefs?
It's the blandest, most generic kind of commentary.
Doesn't say it.
It doesn't really say anything.
And with that, I am going to begin Super Chats.
You guys are welcome to do whatever you may wish to do.
Like, look, we went into this together.
We're going we started this verb together.
We're going to end this verb together.
I'm going to need a good old verb after this.
Guys, it's not wamen.
It's wombs.
You got to take the men in women out, so it becomes wombs.
Thank you for that verb.
We needed it.
Afternoon gents.
How do you how do you have so much time?
I mean, we only do fappies once per like one week and a half.
You know, fappies are the leaf happy.
They leave happy.
But we're doing the double one.
I say double the one over three days, two over three days, I think,
because there won't be one for a while after this or at least a longer time than usual.
I will need to recuperate how do you think about it?
Everyone has the same amount of time.
They just use it differently with different verbs.
That's that is a very ableist statement.
I'm sorry.
Because you don't account for those who have different times based on different ables.
Once I sat in a wheelchair, so I'm allowed to sit.
Oh, that's fair.
That's fair.
How do you start a wheelchair before?
So what was that?
I just sat in a wheelchair before as well.
I've also been in a wheelchair.
I could like not forever.
Like I could stand up and just walk away.
But like a lot of people wear chairs as it can do that.
They have to stay in the wheelchair.
Technically, be having poor eyesight means you're less able to do things.
So if I'm blind, can I get a wheelchair?
Yes, under California law.
You can just buy them the things.
Um, wheelchair.
How do you start the stream while at work?
I if your job permits podcast listening, then maybe that works out.
I don't know.
We're late now.
Yeah.
With my brother wanting me to I may buy anthem.
If so, I'll try writing a review for the discord.
Oh, check out the anime film Sword of the Star Ranger.
Anyone ever heard of that?
Sword of the Star Ranger.
I'll take any alternative to Star Wars at this point.
Hey, my internet's back after being out for over a week.
Feels great to be watching you tap again.
So here's some shackles.
Well, it feels great to be here.
As long as they translate into like non-shackle money.
I mean, geez, I'm going to do shackles and accept them in Britain.
What's up, guys?
I'll have to watch this later, but have a good day.
You too, sir.
Love you.
Take down of Cyrus Wolf.
Keep up the good work.
Keep doing it.
Okay.
The way they do it.
Great job.
Worked hard on that.
Lots suffer through.
What a great guy.
Well, yeah, Wolf is just fantastic for that sort of thing.
He needs a piece of work, man.
Chickadee China, the Chinese chicken.
You have a drumstick and your brain stops ticking.
Watching X-Files with no lights on with Dan's La Maison.
I hope the smoking man's in this one like Harrison Ford.
I'm getting frantic like Sting.
I'm frantic like Snickers guaranteed to satisfy.
I think I read those backwards.
I don't know, but it's another rap, I believe.
Yeah, it's oh, fuck.
What's the name?
I feel the groovy beat deep in my soul.
Home skillet.
Oh, fuck was it?
Oh, it's going to kill me now.
Well, that song is.
They were like a one hit wonder.
They were really big in like the early 2000s, I think.
Oh, Danny DeVito.
No, chicken, the Chinese chicken.
If anybody knows what it is, please say in the chat.
Don't say naked ladies.
Is that what it is?
That's it.
They're naked ladies.
One week.
It's been one week since you looked me.
Yeah.
Try to watch the debate with Lee only made it halfway through.
It was painful.
Rags, that was your favorite episode, right?
What?
That was your favorite episode and guest.
No, this is my favorite.
This one right here.
This is my favorite one of all of them.
This is it.
More, please say precious crystal fox boy.
There you go.
This account is called Praise Pipeman.
Listen, understand that Ryan is out there and he doesn't understand
pity or remorse or candidate.
He will absolutely never stop ever until Star Wars is dead.
It's a shame.
I have to watch this on Moolah.
But anyway, guys, I was wondering if you made any Uefab hosts and special guests
rags into characters for my D&D campaign.
But anyway, guys, enjoy the memes.
You could make us into characters on a D&D game if you want to.
I don't see why not.
Yeah, go for it.
I've I've if we give you quests, they can't have dotted lines that tell you where to go.
Yeah, through that.
Yeah, no handhold.
That means you can't be immersed in the world.
I actually started replaying Dragon Age Origins recently and I named the dog rags.
Just so you know, rags.
Oh, you racist.
It was a compliment.
I'm glad you're a dog is awesome.
I like it.
Oh, I approve.
Wolf did answer about Exodus.
And I think there's a couple about that.
I'll just try and skip over them, I guess.
Been Efappans since Bilbo Baggins.
Bilbo Baggins.
More love the channel.
Love showing people your channel.
Will still waiting for Act Man.
Get him on.
That might eventually happen.
Maybe we can get Act Man on here.
I don't know.
Maybe Wolf can get him.
Only watched half the last Efab so far.
Take it so long because Major Lee is making me want to shoot myself
every time he admits something wrong in the movie.
That goes.
No, it's not a problem.
Well, it's not a problem.
Did you say whatever like three times?
Listen, there's a lot of people out there who fit.
So that's my argument.
There's another Exodus one.
Oh, and it says, Howdy again.
CJ Love all of you.
Hello, Daddy Doggo.
That could be for rags.
Oh, for sake.
Hello.
That was, I did a stream recently and while I took a break,
everyone in the chat decided to start calling me Daddy Doggo.
So when I came back, it was just a whole stream of Daddy Doggo.
But what was the hierarchy between you and rags?
Are you daddy or is he like, how does that work?
I'm daddy.
On my channel calling me daddy as well.
Oh, really?
Maybe there's multiple dad.
I'm quite glad that died.
West Virginia gave its life for America.
Ungrateful communist blind Doggo.
All right, then.
Slice and dice brothers.
Slice and dice, my brother.
Slice and dice.
That Efap dance was amazing.
Yes, it was.
That was really impressive.
I'm tempted to play that to exit this stream.
You guys game for that?
Sure.
Throw it back on.
Another Efap.
Efap plot hole.
Why did they hire an English actor to play Mauler when his character is Welsh?
I don't know.
I don't.
It doesn't make any sense.
It's not a plot hole.
Well, I guess it's possible.
It's consistent.
It's consistent within its own rules.
If we assume he traveled to Wales after he was born in England,
I guess makes sense.
That's kind of writing for the writer at that point, though.
Surely it would be the other way around that if if he is Welsh,
then he traveled to England and picked up the accent.
Depends on if he spent like 15 years in England and born there and then he moved to Wales.
Then he was and then he became a citizen in Wales.
Like there's so many ways they could do it.
They just never think he's internalized his oppression.
They never wrote the backstory.
Like I'm saying it.
I think it's a plot hole.
I'm sorry.
Like if you guys let me guess, there's a visual novel that explains it.
It's all right, because plot holes don't matter.
Oh, thank Christ.
Full metal bat.
Yes, Resident Evil 4 is still the best Resident Evil.
I can agree with that.
I fucking love that game.
Could the three of you guys do a full sing along of I'll make a man out of you from Mulan.
I'd love to hear your sexy singing voices do a triplet.
I'm sure we all know it, but we wouldn't do that because we're where we would never.
We're going to wait for Disney to remake it in live action with Will Smith.
When the Efap Patreon gets the $10,000 role, we'll sing the song of your choice.
I mean, could we really reach the levels of Mark Brown with a patron?
I don't think so.
You just have to stop seeing things and then you'll reach that level.
Do you think that Will Smith will play Mulan in Mulan?
Yes.
I think Will Smith will play every character in every Disney film from now on.
It's time that we finally get a depiction of Mulan.
That's a strong black male character.
I think the world is ready for it.
Strong black male.
Hey, well, I love the new video on Cyrus Martin.
Yeah, I worked on that for a while.
Honestly, me and Cyrus go way back.
I saw that.
It was really good.
Yeah, thanks.
Literally a lot of effort went into it.
I went with like a dog sort of avatar this time around.
I thought it would work personally.
It was pretty good.
Hey Rags, it was great to see Cyrus Martin again for me.
He'll always be Jared's stepdad.
Also, would you say scissor is a weird pair of scissors?
What was the second part of that?
He said, also, would you say a scissor is a weird pair of scissors?
I think so.
It's not that weird.
Oh, there you go.
Maybe a little bit, but not really that weird.
That's hot.
Kind of how like a crawfish is like a weird lobster.
Um, got a closing shift tonight.
Can't wait to watch this.
Love you guys.
Possible source for meme video makers fights from Jojo's Bizarre Adventure.
I think Alex showed me one of them.
They're quite funny.
Efap is pretty much just a weird grape.
I agree with that statement, personally.
I don't think Wolf would, but I do.
Weird grape.
To keep TLJ meme alive about it getting worse each time you think about it,
Rose's ending line is made worse as she forces Finn to fight the First Order
and stops him from saving Ray in the beginning.
Oh yeah.
I guess you can.
Yeah.
Wow.
It's like the layers of incompetence just stack onto each other like a miserable.
No, it makes sense.
It's here.
Oh, it's it's.
Guys, you can do this to literally any movie.
So the Last Jedi is good.
Every single movie, if you think about it, gets worse.
There is no movie that survives or gets better when you think about all the connections.
All of them get worse because everyone's terrible at writing.
Let's just be honest.
Efap and people like it, which means it was good.
Efap and TGBP, when will they be merged?
Take my dollar.
Bitch for both put together.
That would be.
That would be a mess.
That would be something.
Realistically speaking, how do you think a movie ball presidency would play out?
Genocide.
Genocide.
It would be horrific.
Hey CJ, when will you continue ride to hell?
Well, at some point this week, either Tuesday or maybe Thursday,
you played ride to hell and now you're here.
Makes sense.
Hey, we did it.
So my week just got worse and worse.
You all excited for Captain Marvel?
Oh, of course.
I can't wait.
I can't wait to see more strong, independent female.
I will be seeing it.
I am neutral on my excitement and I'm going to go in.
I'm going to be like, please be good.
Please be good.
Please be good.
But we'll see.
Did you know, Jay, that I'm not allowed to review it?
Why?
Why not?
Brie Larson said she doesn't want to hear from white dudes when reviewing the movie.
Well, well, Tosspot's doing it.
So the normal thing is like white straight white males.
And so am I allowed to review it?
What if I identify as gay, but I'm straight, but I identify as gay.
Does that count?
Only until you actually like, uh, uh, seal the deal.
Oh, I can simulate it.
The level of quality for this medium is incredible.
Cutest, the meme maker.
We literally have the best memes that I have to agree.
I'm assuming that's about the Kingsman one.
Has anyone superimposed you guys into Starship Troopers?
Anyway, keep up the good work.
Oh, and what did Wolf think of the debate?
Oh, I don't think he mentioned what he thought of Major Lee's thing.
Did he?
I think he talked about it for a little bit.
I remember.
But no, no one's done a Starship Troopers meme.
We've got plenty of movies left to, uh, to rip into, I suppose.
So this is, this is the apology for last time.
The first thing I see when I tune in is fucking diaper fetish, a brilliant return to form.
Oh, this is the apology stream.
Oh, you changed it to the Rhino.
Very clever, Jay.
Thanks.
I just thought it would be a fun thing to do.
It is.
By the way, for anyone who's not completely familiar with it,
the full picture is me riding the rhino.
And it's one of my favorite things now.
It is beautiful.
Have you guys seen it?
It's very good.
No, I don't think so.
Go on.
Go ahead and get it from Jay and post it in the little, little text.
Sure.
Good day, guys.
Got into this to see four guys wheezing to this art.
Love it.
Also, have you guys heard of Rageaholic or Razor Fist?
If so, your thoughts.
Um, I'm neutral on Razor Fist.
I'm fine.
Yeah, I mostly like his stuff.
Rags is positive on Razor Fist more than neutral.
And then Wolf is very much not positive on Razor Fist or neutral.
So a lot of people have actually asked if he could ever guess on Efap.
I don't know if it can work.
Because Wolf is a little tisby about it.
I don't know what we would do.
I don't know.
I I'm fine with it.
I'm fine with it too.
I don't I don't know if Wolf would be.
We'd have to ask.
See what he says.
Um, because I was on wheel class bolters with Razor Fist.
And it was quite funny.
He was very edgy and made lots of fun jokes.
And then after it, we all got accused of being sexist, racist, blah, blah, blah.
It was unfortunate.
But you know, that's the way the cookie crumbles.
Actually, speaking of Quentin, check out monkey's Twitter.
Recently, Quentin sent a fan account of monkey some interesting messages.
Won't spoil what's in it.
Just check.
Yeah, no, I've seen it.
I think I sent the tweet to Wolf and Rags, I think they should have.
I don't.
Yeah, man, that's crazy.
I have to say, Quinn's never gonna hear this.
But dude, what were you thinking?
I don't know what the hell he was even.
He is just a gift that keeps on giving.
Man, when something else.
I think it makes him feel validated.
Maybe the attention and the backlash.
It's not something you'd want.
Public is kind of what I'm getting at.
Like if I was a PR manager, I'd be like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
And he's like, it's okay to say it.
I'd be like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Your new friends will not like this.
Do not say these things.
Do you know about the whole?
When you DMCA a video, you have to put your full name in as like a claimant.
And so the person you DMCA sees that as the claimant.
and so people have been posting his full name because he fucking put in his full name
which is irrelevant because apparently he used to introduce his videos with his full name anyway
which you can still find or at least are now enlisted but you know still happened
and so Mumkey made people aware of that that he put his full name out there like an idiot
and there's pictures running around and then he accused Mumkey of doxxing him
okay i don't think that's how that works that's not how that works
um yeah uh crazy situation and Quinton is just the gift that keeps on giving because
months ago he could have just stopped being an idiot and he would be fine
he would have recovered from the me and rags thing very quickly but now it's just one of the
10 million things he's done yeah like no no one cares about him anymore everybody's moved on and
then he comes out with this just keeps stirring him apart i don't know why he hates Mumkey so
much but didn't it literally come from the fact that he said he was annoyed that Mumkey called
him a fat cuck that was it yeah i mean they did a lot of people if that's all it takes
i'm gonna fan cook but anyway even if it's just the specifically the words fat
cuck that set him off he still must hate a lot you gotta get a thicker skin Quinton
uh that's not how you win it looks like it looks like your skin's pretty thick
shaded wait are you saying he's more than one people he's got thick bones he's saying he's two
people's worth of people i'm saying he's more of a person i'm saying he gets to vote twice
that's gonna be code for someone's fattened future he gets to vote twice
uh that's not how you win wolf you don't win by killing what you hate but saving what you love
at least wolf's watching elita before it becomes property of mickey uh is it gonna be wolf tower i
don't know i don't know that's when you guys gonna do a drunk speed run of re2 remake for efap gaming
is that co-op-able i don't know if it is we could but if it is that means it would be two of us right
well unless the plan i think used to do left for dead next at some point um it'll be me wolf rags
and then a fourth person who really likes left for dead i guess uh hey thanks for checking out
my video oh that's the uh the major bluetooth one that was very good the amazing crazy good crazy
good yeah all you jack solar we did read that come on guys at least we get keith richards oh
from the pirates films i think that is yeah he's in two of them it's not bad an efap haiku ryan
johnson set to cast quinton as layer source bilbo baggins i don't know if you can trust that but i
think if that's episode nine stuff then maybe literally a super chat let's fuck you disney i
think that's because of the um do you remember we did that at one point tonight we looked at the
the the galaxy heroes thing yep feels like a different we will never forget dante was that today
that was yes oh my goodness dante bosco zuko's voice actor was in the skits in nostalgia critics
top 10 avatar episodes video trust me this video isn't his lowest oh my i don't think wolf knows
about that he was in the star oh oh layer the rescue especially with dante basco's involvement
makes me want a huge more amount of suicide that was it uh tonal bloke said a huge more amount
isn't that amazing a huge war i remember that god damn it you guys i'm already at hour it's
the last efap and here you are making another i can't finish what evisceration before you start
another you'll have time you'll have a week and a half to catch up hi everyone just saying thanks
for another efap good cure for depression he's got xd after it i think it adds to it honestly
it's an efap haiku annihilation you get to look at women best film of the year majorly would have
to like it would have to i'm here my lords here is my money for slaanesh rags and wolf you slaanesh
worshipers that's gonna happen every efap now isn't it yep hey wolf hey hey wolf hi all right
please rip apart ren's reviews terrible mission impossible fallout review the film is objectively
great and was my top film in 2018 blessed be the pikeman we are planning to do that and the guy
who made the videos already hit me up on twitter saying if you cover it please let me come on to
talk about it and i was like sure we uh once we cover it once we get around to it we are it's in
the pipeline because literally wolf loved that film i think it was really awesome i'm pretty
sure rags gonna like it i am very interested in hearing the arguments i really do want to see it
going to sleep love y'all subscribe to dr genesis is it just me or does mark brown sound like j
i don't jay and mark brown very different i hope not i mean he's got he's got a nice voice
he just doesn't say anything with it uh hey efap saw you watched the cw meme i made hope you
liked it working on more it's not much but here's a little something in the meantime uh feckless duo
was he the one which memes did feckless duo make i'm assuming cw stands for civil war maybe
i could have sworn he made the clone wars one actually oh yeah he did
that was the one we watched today oh that makes sense okay it all makes sense to me now yes
and it was cool thank you very much very kind uh wolf up the hurry fuck and dead elation in
monster hunter world already he'll get around to it i'll try super chatting that's a good trick
i just entered the chat but i want to know wolf have you seen the token trick yeah he did answer
that does this guy not know how to drive what would that be a reference to mark brown
man man bad let's just play witch of three and at no point fail to get immersed because of a dotted
line yeah i'm so sorry i'm so sorry mark that you had that problem like what a pity that you couldn't
wow just i am so sorry for you mark um this game isn't immersive enough for him because it doesn't
let his character have autism that could be it you don't know wait the map marks all the key doors
and what key needed but not the chain doors i'll check that when i get home i never noticed that
that's uh james moore he's the one that was interested in talking about resident evil two
i believe so it's probably what that is resident evil two is a masterpiece rags just can't play
video games it's okay rags i despise the combat resident evil two so that was the remember the
back and forth um yeah molly you need i don't think it's a masterpiece but i think it's
that's all right uh molly good very immersive sounds great see this video proving ocarina of
time is a master class in subtext just search for ocarina of time a master class in subtext
probably need to play it right the way through this or maybe i could check it out to be honest
playing on hardest difficulty is my default uh depends on the game for me especially if when
you hover over the hardest difficulty and it says do not play this on your first attempt i'd be like
okay um breath of the wild did maps and hints quite well
for all the idiot enemies of efap here is molar arguing in favor of subjectivity against people
making false objective arguments the solution is to have both options for both types of games
yeah that's actually kind of interesting because he was saying like it's more immersive to do x
and we're like imagine subjective your argument doesn't follow like we're arguing for subjectivity
and this bizarro lad uh in morrowind everything was written in your journal from directions to
quest updates and sometimes the directions would be wrong i still get east and west mixed up because
they got the they got them wrong so often really the game got east and west wrong not Bethesda
by both i mean being able to disable the waypoints yeah i had to find points in the middle of the
woods in both the winter northern east and us and summer hawaii in the middle of the night
uh i'm assuming they mean like irl i had to have 10 meters accuracy to find a hidden strip of tape
usually tagged on a tree i was given a usgs topo map a compass and a measuring device i wanted to cry
it's tough it's tough to do well maybe they should invent some form of a dotted line
that could possibly assist you have to leave a breadcrumb for other players to follow you
you mean like some kind of device that can show you a map a verb that you're looking at on that map
yeah verb i'm sorry he says that over footage of assassin's creed black flag but the game has the
same kind of treasure map system of red dead a map with an image of the island in coordinates to find
it fail with the reward what the hell he did follow up with mentioning that i think the thing
is that's the point the video's all jumbled he's like he mentions you can turn things off he
mentions that it maybe would just be good enough if you just added some quests that require
critical thinking and stuff it's like what do you want mark what do you want hospital looks like
the video basically is like him trying to say this thing is better but he knows that it's just
his preference so he can't commit to anything it's what i got from it maybe just some more
optional ones i don't know like i don't know guys come on um
uh rags just wanted to mention you're correct about water not being wet you're
not your fault others fail at logic and cr i love your fallout 76 review
yeah that was great it was great clear that i can't go much into it um you deserve all the praise
that you're getting red dead redemption 2 does everything he asks and yet he hated it called it
antiquated even really i didn't know anybody didn't like red dead redemption 2 i only heard
good things sure you can you can have a game that fulfills like a load of criteria that you have and
still it's like that game that's that's okay um feel i'm curious what he well maybe we should
maybe there's a video for that mark brown calling that game antiquated like uh does he mean the
mechanics are antiquated i don't know maybe i shouldn't be asking because there's just a comment
i should probably look at the actual video anyway hey wolf would you suck on oh all right he read
that dark souls revolutionized gaming because it has no jump button it's something i once said as
a joke and i wouldn't be surprised if that guy says it might do i pressed my button three times
and i wasn't bored oh that's a deep reference uh petition to change game maker's toolkit's name
to downward press oh it took me longer to get that than it should have beautiful i still haven't
got it should it should i've got it what do you do with buttons oh if there was anyone in verbs
yeah do you mean i meant verbs i didn't say it i feel inadequate you verb inadequate
you verb verb
some strange things to read out if there was anyone who had any passion in video games and
or in making them they would already know this true did you know you can aim down sights and
shoot at the same time such a brilliant combination of vibes do you know that super chat came in before
he did that bit by the way oh really that wasn't even a reaction i remember reading it and thinking
like oh shit i think he does actually say that rags fucks to the rhythm of a mark brown video
confirmed no he said he mutes it it's in the law he mutes it um says it in a way that makes you
think guys jeez just got on a break after a rough day so far glad to see y'all were streaming and
made my day a lot better thanks guys no problemo i'll debate you but no rags in the chat oh
i'm from creamy sheave hey molly here's some money for rags this fallout 76 video of course
get some celery rags it's more filling than this uh i'm gonna i'm gonna have a bunch of broccoli
and chicken i have chicken and broccoli i finished all my mushrooms and i think i i've got bacon and
eggs i don't even know what i'm gonna do i'm not gonna go very stopping fuck it i i don't even
think i'm gonna state to fucking stand right now i'm just gonna crawl over to the kitchen
and you just suck the eggs right out of the shell and just take a nap on the bathroom floor
mark brown has killed you rags well this is over find yourself a nice peach
i think they're referring to it but take a shot every time mark brown says vib no
uh dice removed microtransactions from battlefront 2 january 2018 i don't know what game major lee
was playing just wanted to clear that up interesting uh yeah we didn't know enough
about it to be able to call him on any of the specifics um but we knew enough to know that
what he was saying was test and we fucking all the top comments were like are you serious he's
defending style of battlefront 2 and i was just like oh maybe they did they took out the micro
transactions and then they put them back in how mario's secret jump subverts your expectations
mark is a strip club depend 10k to get blue balls i mean that's the thing right that video
if i was a patron i'd have been like hmm okay hopefully the next one's a bit better
i don't know it seemed like tug of cheek like maybe maybe the point was that the secret was
verbs do you reckon that's maybe what it was or something like a maybe a hidden subtext
but we just didn't connect here's the thing if it's a hidden subtext it's still a secret
if it's a secret you can't tell people it or it's not a secret anymore
and i don't want to tell anybody i just want to know what it is
but no he would be telling people what it is then it wouldn't be a secret
well i don't fucking care the title said the secret of mario's jump if it's in a public
video it's not a secret i don't fucking care i want to know the secret the title would make
like the video if it fulfilled it's fine i would immediately make itself up doesn't matter i want
the information call it what you will um i didn't even care it between my buns
i went on re2 and checked on the map it doesn't show the icon but if you go over the door spot
it tells you oh you what you responded to that didn't you by the chain door you said something
like you woke up to the chain door you'd know it's a chain door or something i need to play
that game because i've got no context for all this uh unrelated but hey rags tried doom 2016
after hearing everyone rave about it but got motion sick after 30 minutes we'll keep trying
to make papa rags proud uh that's a shame just the fov maybe that's the issue yeah it could be
yeah maybe make it smaller or who knows uh oi maulie iron man three and unbridled praise when
it's going to be a rage i'm going to shred that movie when i get around to it also thoughts on
jj using time travel in episode nine since you missed my last super chat wait i think that's a
joke he's using time travel in episode nine is that a thing is that is that a theory to undo
everything that happened in the last jedi i thought they were trying to say that that's been
like announced that's not been announced right i hope not that's gotta be a joke let's go i hope
that's a joke because it wouldn't take stalls seriously ever again uh as opposed to now that
now you can yes i can totally take it seriously right now that's a good point it'll help but um
god it would be interesting if they did actually because i'd be like hey maybe they can fix
everything actually it'll be good they pull the ghostbusters that that one movie just it just
happened uh don't worry rags you have a card in a card game now
not sure that's referring to damn auto correct sword of the stranger i'm assuming that might be
a i watched sword of the stranger and i liked it rags why did you have to mention the reimaginings
of a certain scene in princess mononoke why do you have to do this to my childhood i don't know
what you mean i don't know what they mean blessed be the mixed dog man and the rhino milking jar jar
boy praise be the milk here's some sugar money boys sugar my problem with resident evil two is
the serious continuity errors with any second campaign leon killed why i shouldn't have read
this like i need to play this game yeah don't read it yeah don't read it if it's got spoilers
don't read it uh remove an atom from h2o it's not equal wet hashtag team wet i don't and i don't i
yes resident evil one remake and resident evil four are the best ones every other game
in their series is literally between an eight and a five except for that umbrella
umbrella core abomination is that the zombie one no that's like a
team yeah it's like a third person it's horrible yes and the final one from jay axis sin sense
congrats on your fallout 76 video mola and cj another one's come in since you read that out
that's your opinion this is a serious question for rags and cynical reviews if you both if you
both expressed your nuanced curiosities together by letting the rest of efap cast
lick mac and cheese made of whole rhino milk by the way off your cute little tummies what would
you do to reciprocate such affection it's okay we're adults we can talk about these things
uh wow that is um hmm uh i think that i think the uh hmm my cute little tummy hmm
uh mac and cheese on my cute
it's rhino cheese the rest of the efap cast i would say i would do something like eat a carrot
sandwich but that doesn't work in this situation what about what about a piece of bread between two
carrots i mean i wouldn't want you see that's the thing about like the my my fur on my belly
is smooth like suede it is it is absolutely wonderful pleasing to the touch it's so tactile
um does it have good game feel oh it's got gray game feel okay good like you wouldn't believe
so responsive every every verb you could imagine all at once well i just have pubes up and down my
body um it's like a fucking uh fucking scourer you gotta smooth yourself um uh well in in response
i'd say you know if you've got some peanut butter i'm sure we could make it work to answer the
question i i don't particularly enjoy eating off of people's bodies nor them eating all right that's
not quite my thing i i i was assuming this was hypothetical no no i think we have to do got two
memes in from twitter just gonna go ahead and post we got um i'll try i'll try stumbling that's a good
then uh you got the rhino with the well the the cow with the rhino stitched onto it the spider
oracle is drawn like milk i think that rag rag is bull with a carrot and a piece of bread
and i press verb to verb then verb to do another verb mark totaled baggings
oh that must have been made so quickly because of the carrot and bread meme
yeah they this is what we're talking about the the meters either either this was made
incredibly quickly or this person just had that image on hand if they had a spider oracle they
would know with the spiders oh yeah maybe they just asked the spider what the new they would know
oh man hey rags what was a dog doing in mcj rotc oh mascot odd jobs around the you know
just this and that just helping out keeping up morale rags your feelings towards outer worlds
um cautiously optimistic
don't i don't don't pre-order don't don't commit but i'm cautiously optimistic it looks promising
from anonymous jay your comment review review videos sucked she is though
oh i'm proud of those videos there you go uh so to close out well i mean we'll watch this then
i'll close out but i just want to watch the fap dance again is that is is everybody everybody
still in this i'm down with it let's do it yeah let's do it all right here goes put your volume and
seizure reduction up to maximum technology appropriately
oh take out your headphones just put it up full volume
this actually does give me a headache worth it
it's such a dense meme that's great the fact that it's a silhouette of jared and everyone does
that's good quality family entertainment oh if if you keep that icon jay though the the actual
the jay of your fat eventually they'll start using that the beams i was seeing that as well
i was like maybe finally finally they won't just have to use like the text of my name because
that was like a pretty bad icon i'll be real you gotta commit commit to something you know
i mean you commit to a wrong just go with it like cj did like i don't even use much anymore
yeah good boy um but yeah i guess we're coming to the end so let's do let's do the thing
cj do you want to give a moment to say that people should subscribe to your channel and
why one might wish to do such a thing uh i make videos where i hate fat people um he hates people
that can vote twice this is ultimately a political position he holds yeah well i uh basically i
review things for the sake of comedy mostly movies uh but i take the piss out of things basically and
just have a moan i've also made topic-based videos but i'm going to be making less of them
from now on so basically if you'd like those channels where people shit on movies
uh you might like my stuff so yeah go and check it out um i also have a podcast uh called the
great british podcast with uh foxes productions and cynic snacks who've also been on efap before
uh we we joke about stuff talk about stuff we read out bad fan fiction uh play cards against
humanity stuff like that it's a good old time it's a good old time uh so yeah uh if any of that
sounds good do feel free to check out my channel i would i would give it my recommendation i believe
rags mike too yeah i like it jay why do you hate it i'm sorry jay why do you hate his channel
because he's a racist is it because of the verbs yeah not enough well why don't you explain why
your channel is better and that people should subscribe to it instead oh i wouldn't say my
channel is better um i hate that as well you just can't know it's worse it's definitely worse
i mean if i did just make a video about uh someone who was basically made an entire comment thread
at me um where the where i made a neutral video about the last jedi right not talking about the
actual film talking about things people had said about it and then someone in the comments
essentially left me an entire thread where basically what they were saying was they were
accusing me of not liking the film as if i'd like shat on their mother's grave yeah and i
hadn't even said anything about the film so i've just made a video about that person who loves the
last jedi so much that they feel the need to tear down neutral videos about it so if that sounds
like the kind of thing you're not with us you're against that's yeah if that sounds like the kind
of thing you would enjoy then and pop over to my channel and give it a look um but i do have to
warn you you won't enjoy it because it's bad yeah there's no verse no pike man there's no verbs
and i get to the point where i'm like me and rags say anything there's no point right
if you're subscribed to be rags channel i don't know why you're here like it's kind of weird but
okay you're not a real friend do you think there's anyone out there who likes efap but does not like
the main uploads from me wolf or rags do you reckon that's the thing it's possible it's
possible there are people who listen to the conversation but they're not interested in the
videos yeah interesting there's very different forms of content there's got to be people who
don't like you know long-form essentially essays interesting uh rap boy said yeah but i don't know
how much we can believe it we truly believe rap boy i don't know oh man bad yeah that uh
it should pretty much wrap it up it's one last uh was there one last
oh you're right have to go adult now but great stream y'all really got my money's worth apologies
you guys had to put up with so much tism lol i mean mark brown how do you even like quantify
that in terms of tismry there's like so many fields and categories i need to lie down and eat
that's how you categorize it i need to just turn on the shower and just let the water run down my
little cute tummy hmm we will get to the point on efap where we've covered every creator at least
once it'll happen we'll get to episode 10 billion and we will have covered them all but that i was
gonna say like there's no reason we should ever return to mark brown now that's like the mark
brown episode we we got so frustrated we compared him to gamer from bars i think that like i think
that does it so um he'll make it into memehood i imagine game makers toolkit he was already in
there before we even uh covered him so that's how things work but anyway it's been wonderful
thank you all again to the community for the incredible memes the they're all wonderful but
like that fucking king's man one yeah like that you've got some sick fans we know that took you
ages like guy who made that i know it took you hours and hours and hours and you were you were
slaving away while doing something like listening to something i'll do something you were moving
those pictures being like i'm literally trying to make a rendition of like a guy on the internet
stabbing somebody who disagrees with them so why what am i doing but you did it you completed it
and it was wonderful and it made all of us laugh and you had a the audience loved it so thank you
very much for the the investment the time the passion it's all beautiful and thank you everyone
for um the very kind donations thank you for the guests for staying so long and uh thank you for
watching but that's about it so good bye everyone you're gonna say goodbye no none of you goodbye
bye
