It's normally some today
We do normally have raggers is he is unavailable on the frame. I mean, I'll probably mention that again
He hasn't been uploading much. Oh, he's working on stuff. Why the according to discord? I'm peeking like crazy not discord
OBS, why is this?
People gonna be like you sound too loud
Do I sound any different to you off
I'll pull up the stream but chat thing. You don't sound any different on the stream either
Concerning I'm like hitting the red on the on the OBS detector thing. It's like, oh god. Well
Apparently I sound fine. So that that is just
Very well, sir
Yes, hello everyone and welcome to if app number
The for a room we have a very wonderful special guest mr. The act man
How'd you do mr. The act man? I believe that's how they say it. Yes
That is how they say it. I you know some say mr. Act man
Some say performing dude, whatever your preference. I accept it all
In
I believe you
Oh, well, of course we like people from all walks of life and you know what?
we haven't had like like a guest that is is doing videos on stuff like like Halo and and and
Just video games that are like mainstream regular big river. You know, I really liked
Celebrated battlefront to us. We're doing God's work
That is a game that is just goddamn amazing
Gods no, I I adore the styles about for two. I played that shit when you were saying like you
Went to the store the dad to pick it up. I was like, oh my god. It's like he's describing my life. I
Still
Star Wars Battlefront 2 is yeah
Not only was I so hyped about the release of that game, but I was also hyped that trailer because I
Remember vividly or maybe they're not the trailer but my bit in that video that I did
I have this vivid memory and I can't remember if I mentioned it in the video, but this was like sixth grade the year's
2005 and we're all in music class and I remember there's this one nerdy kid
not gonna say his name but
The music teacher asked us like does anyone know what day it is and the nerdy kid and of course
I was a nerd too, but the nerdy kid's hand shoots up and he's like the day Star Wars Battlefront 2 comes out and just like
Like shouting that in class and I just remember thinking
Like I
Spent way too much time on that game
I think I bought on like what how many platforms did that come out on cuz I definitely had it on PC and game
It was on PSP PS2 Xbox
PC was it on GameCube or is that a false memory?
I must have on PS2 on Xbox because it had a higher player count
Suck on that PlayStation
fans well, I remember the the I
Remember buying it on multiple things
But I never actually got to play online with all other people or at least not much
I was mainly just playing galactic conquest constantly as every different team different from maps different. I fucking love Polish Massa
It's like my favorite
It's such a simple map. But yeah, it's the tug-of-war style like you keep pushing each other back and forth
You know what? I really love about that map is
It's got that space section right that you can run out in yeah
And if you're a clone or anyone but the droids you will take damage out there, but yeah
It's so cool in that like
There's a funny thing. You might be like those fucking she mini details. Yeah, but when it's an old game doing shit like that
It's like oh, it's so cool. Yeah mad respect
Mm-hmm
I always played on Mustafar and I always want to be obi-wan so I could have the Anakin versus obi-wan music play in the background
That was my favorite thing to do
Some people in the chat are saying me and act man are too quiet
Too quiet too quiet
I guess I
I'm gonna double you both. I'm gonna hear about complaints. I hear too. Oh
Yeah, they go chat. They've been doubled now. Let me know if you want to push it further
If app is a ripoff of fern gully, just so everyone knows it's not the one with Medea was a different one
Sure, there is a big black thing in there
Y'all can't see that it's offensive. Uh, I
Was just be like, you know, we stream him boys. It's like the most topical thing right now
So I was just talking to off about it earlier. We will mention it just because it happened and it's hilarious
Well, I've is hilarious. Part of it is tragic
Is it the act band? Do you know anything about Pro Jared?
Yes, there's something on my Twitter feed about that trending in USA
Do you not know what it is?
He's massively trending it's getting it's like wildfire spread everywhere
I found out about it within like a few hours because of people talking about it
Yeah, I just
56,000 matter of hours
Christ dude
I have not seen it trying to loose up because people were saying like our leafy lost subs faster than that when I dubs
Took him down. It's like no, I don't think so
like
Leafy did lose a load of stuff
But I think I think this is the fastest I've ever seen a channel like fucking die and it is that dramatic
I don't know that he's gonna make videos anymore after what's happened
Well, I actually checked his channel afterwards or after like seeing that and been it's like oh alleged cheating scandal
You know, I'll check it out for some fucking
Petty drama or whatever just like out of curiosity and then I checked his channel
And it was like like three videos or something. He's posted in the last year or like, you know, very infrequent uploads. So
You know kind of not a good position to be in and then his focus in let's plays. He had like a second channel
He was doing that on
Yeah, the quick vision is he cheated on his wife and he divorced her via Twitter allegedly. Yeah
But he divorced her via Twitter
Well, that's what I've been hearing and I know that like he blocked her as well. It is the most built
This is the thing
Go and search for yourselves pro Jared has actually said he wants people to absorb
The facts and to take in what they can find themselves and make their own assumptions, but holy shit, like
It's insane. I've never seen a channel take this kind of damage this quickly
Yeah, that's some serious battle damage
And
Yeah, millions people just make more subs than are active on mundane Matt's channel. That's not fair. He lost more than five subs. Okay, well
Anyway, it's probably with mentioning rags is not here today. He is unavailable at this time
I believe he's possibly on another stream. I'm not 100% sure
however, you can think of this as a weird two-parter in which
Wolf and I get to have a guest and talk about all things video game these and other things and then on Monday
It's gonna be me in rags with a very special guest talking about other things
And so you get like two halves of a hole and I'm in both of the holes because I'm obviously I'm the best character
On this this TV show I have the best arc
I
Feel like you get the most screen time. I do typically
He's just so long that he can't
Most of the screen time. Yeah
But speaking of which with the whole podcast thing. I'm actually this is actually gonna be my last show until June
Because next week I'm not available and the week after that I head out on a two-week vacation. So
Yeah
No, fuck that
Me and yeah, it's really this is the trip you did last year, right? Or is it a different one?
Yeah, well, I've been doing the same trip the past couple years. I just go camping out in Colorado
I was gonna say like that. I believe that was the same time mean ranks did like double guests last year
Right bringing back the double guest shit. That's good
something else
Yeah, if things go well, you know, you could consider me a recurring character, you know, maybe my my plot line expands
After this episode, maybe you know, I find love and
That girl dies or something, you know or she comes on the podcast and then somehow dies and you got like a villain arc
Believe become yeah. Yeah. Yeah
He's gonna be the villain of a fab season three. Well, this is remember we just had the mid season
So this is the second half of season three now this episode. It's not I reckon
It is a very good start
Introduced as an innocent happy friendly character and he's gonna stab wolf in the back right through the spinal column
You
I'm gonna I'm gonna like materialize and appear out of thin air and then like jump jump on your back
Oh
And then you can do a sick move where you draw for the knife and grab it with you
Are you going to shoot my pet out of this guy with a harpoon to the neck? Oh, yeah
But am I going to like am I going to like, um, I don't know abandon my pet without even giving him a goodbye pet
I like that. This is really great writing. Whatever you guys are talking about. I'm loving it
Yeah, and you know my pet that got shot through the neck it happens because I forgot. Oh
Yeah, I forgot about the person who might be able to do that. Yeah
Yeah, you know for anyone who doesn't know what we're talking about
Thrones get on board don't get on board. It's not worth it
We could we could talk about that first if you guys wanna if you guys want to talk a bit about awful everything
Okay
Make a video on it and like
Just just like real quick. I haven't really ever
Gone into like TV or movie territory content on my channel
maybe like here and there but
Been really thinking about doing a Game of Thrones video
Yeah, well like talking talking about like what the real
Tragedy of this show is
Everything you're talking to the right people
I've been watching
Religiously since season 2 was released. I think that's where I started
But it's not gonna be what you think it is
Well, no and fun enough Mel's just highlighted in chat a year ago literally before this season released
I told Mel you need to watch all of it so that you can see the end and
It wasn't a couple of days ago. Maybe a week ago. I said just don't fucking bother
Watch that shit
Yeah, I can't even recommend it anymore such a shame at old honestly watching old episodes is rough
Rough we watched we watched the battle at the wall and halfway through I told mauler like I can't even enjoy this anymore
Because I know what happens
the only fucking people who like the only people who want damage the ones who die like pre end of season 4
It's
Like Joffrey braffian is now one of those solid characters
You guys can't recommend or don't want to recommend the show to people who haven't seen it now
Not anymore. It depends on what they want if I was like, yeah, you'll get some good TV out of it then
Is it because of two particular episodes
Yeah
But yeah that and we can clearly see where they're going with certain things
For example, seriously is obviously gonna be the bad guy who gets killed
But I think Daenerys is gonna be the the secondary bad guy who gets killed I
Think that bran is gonna end up on the iron throne and his advisors are gonna be teary and brawn and
Who else Davos I
Also think that John is going to be very regretful about it and he's gonna go back to the wall
Hey, you'll see ghost
Hey, that's not a not a bad
see the thing is
I've seen a lot of videos and
You guys would probably agree that a lot of shade is like being thrown at the writers DB Weiss and David Benioff, right? Yeah
So how much of the criticism sent towards those guys would you guys say is fair all of it?
Okay, so have you seen the quote where they explained why Daenerys didn't see the iron fleet coming I
Didn't see that so they say forgot you forgot about the iron fleet
Is that what they said? They said that one word for word what he said
Pretty bad
Pretty bad. There's a lot of evidence that they have no idea what this show even is anymore
there's a couple of things I'm prepping for my video, but
But I'm gonna I'm gonna be I'm gonna be doing it. That's my next video now
I need to make a patreon post about it. It was supposed to be moving on with TFA and then I got bumped up by
Game of Thrones episode 3 I was like, that's it. I'm done. I'm gonna leave alone
Then episode 4 happened and I was like you kidding me and then I checked the leaks and I was like, okay
Okay. All right
It's got to a point where I actually checked the leaks and I usually try to avoid that at all costs
But at this point my investment is so out the window that I'm just like I don't even care anymore
Just tell me what happens and then I see it and it's like, oh
Yeah, and so I'll definitely be making another video at the delay of TFA but this has to be done Game of Thrones
I need to lay it to rest
Cuz god damn it all those years
I've I've watched that show like over again in prep for the coming season for like every season
It's not the worst part is it's like I've been I've watched all the
episodes multiple times I've read all the books and
At this point cuz let's be honest. We're never going to get the last two books
Where there's like a zero point zero one percent chance that will get the winds of winter
But we're never getting the last one ever
So it's like well, what's the point of the end up to those conclusions?
well
There there's a lot of supporting evidence. I
Wouldn't I wouldn't hold out hope for getting the rest of the books, but it's possible
But I think that's really like the main issue like obviously you can you can throw
Shit at the writers which you know, they deserve a bit of it
I think for the direction they the overall direction they've taken it and how the difference in writing
but at the same time it's like
Imagine going into this huge project this huge project and thinking
That the person who is coming up with this story is going to be like writing it alongside you the whole time
like remember when
The first Harry Potter movie came out and I think JK Rowland had like maybe just finished Order of the Phoenix or Goblet of Fire
Like how would the last?
Three or four movies have gone if those books just didn't come out and like, you know, they were on a schedule
you know, so I think a lot of this you know really has to go towards George for not getting his shit together and like
buckling down and actually finishing
The story he's created. Oh, yeah
I don't think people give enough criticism to George because he's
People always say George has always been a slow writer and that's just patently incorrect
Because the first three books which come out to like over a million words in total like the best
Yeah, I mean they came out in the span of five years. So roughly one of smaller series
Roughly
But then the the two books that came after that which were supposed to be one come out over the span of 11 years and
They're real the drop in quality is
Enormous compared to the first three books because the first three books are incredible the fourth and fifth ones are just bad
And then he wrote a knight of the seven kingdoms, which is okay at best
He wrote blood and fire which takes passages out of another book
completely and it's a giant waste of time and
He just goes to all these talk shows and all these
Conferences to talk to fans and shit. It's like George. You're just lazy
I know
Like that's I I really think this is all just like a big series of unfortunate
Events there we go. Well, we'll have that Lemony Snicker. I know that reference. Yeah. Yeah
Good. Have you seen have you guys seen that meme? It's like a picture. It's like get the fuck off me
I need to tell them I understood that reference
But um, did you steal that meme did you give it credit to the person who made he doesn't know that meme
We're getting into the inception here. There's too many memes
but um, I
What I was getting at is it's like
You you can it's not any one person's like fault that the series has more or less like
Degraded in quality, which I think it undoubtedly has
Because like
Okay, the writers don't have any more source material to go off of George is pretty much like at the point where he's just enjoying
The spotlight and the fame and everything and you know
Can you blame him for you know going on all those talk shows?
Well, I can't blame him but at the same time it's like if I was in his position I would finish them
Yeah, it's like you show my fans a little bit of respect now. I want to say
Just because George didn't finish the books doesn't excuse the fact that David and Dan are like two of the worst writers
If I could bring an analogy here, right? Like let's picture them
They're just they're running across a track and George is building the track by putting bricks down and then you know around season
Six ish, let's say he's run out of bricks and they're just running on like thin air
But you reach season 8 and instead of watching them attempt to run across this thin air
They just pull out a gun and shoot themselves in the head and you're like, uh
Okay, you didn't have any track
but I mean
You didn't really help yourself. They kind of
Um, I was impressed with season 8 like and this is the thing
I've survived a lot of bad writing across Game of Thrones and this I was just like wow
Like this is the first time where I was like
It broke my immersion to the point
I had to look up spoilers because I just don't care and I made it through season 7
That's a low bar. I
Made it through the last Jedi for that matter
Didn't we all didn't we?
Speaking of which mauler we need to ask him the the episode 9 class. Yes. Okay, so act man
When when approaching episode 9, who do you think will be the character that is written most
Inconsistent with what we understand about them up to that point. Oh
That is a good question. That is a really good question. Um, I
Kind of wasn't done talking about Game of Thrones. We can come right back. Don't worry
Just if you give this is I would love to come back. We will come right back
It was only just answer this give a reason I'll put you on we've got a basically a big bet going every single guest
As a vote on it. Okay, who will be?
written the most
inconsistently
With what we know so far about the series that the question
Yeah
So your choices would be like finpo Hux Ray Luke BB 8 R2 D2 layer that sort of thing
You can't choose Kylo you can't choose Lando and you can't you can't choose
You can't choose Palpatine
They're going to be the most inconsistent ones
It was three year off the table you go. She's something more interesting
Well, I think it's really cool that or at least the idea of Luke coming back as a ghost is like
cool in its own way, I
did want to just say that like
But I
Hmm. I feel like it's gonna be Luke
I feel like it's gonna be Luke because like he was already so inconsistent or just like not himself in
The
Last Jedi and
So, I think they're probably gonna like fuck him up still
Well, my money's on Luke. You're in good company. He are voted for Luke as well
Nice nice to two major guests in a row voting for the same guy. Maybe it's
Luke
Maybe it'll be so inconsistent. He goes back to being normal Luke again. It's weird
Votes for the rags and wolf did no one else has voted them
You guys are a load rags go for rags went for Hux
But I mean honestly it could be anyone's Hux is the the
Blond guy it's a bit it's funny because he's such a forgettable character that you have to be reminded of who he is
Well, he's just not like
Special he's not a talking just just kind of like
Angry Imperial guy. I don't know you kind of
Yeah, they're fucking all over these movies. They're all angry shouty Imperial guys. Yeah
Of course, you'll never forget that guy who got choked by Vader cuz he was just being a fucking dick and he didn't need
To shout and scream. I don't even know his name. Oh all zell
No, all zell
You're the ocean to that ancient religion. Oh that guy. Yeah. Yeah
Anyway back to came through
Okay, so my uh, my point was like and I was thinking about it, you know, there's
there's a
What would I call it there's like this perception I think that
When things are going good, you know, you give praise
But like when something goes bad whether it be like writing or you know, even in sports or football there's like this attitude of
What have you done for me recently? And I think you know, you can talk shit about David and DB Weiss
And I'm somewhat playing devil's advocate here
But it's like they they did adapt those first they adapted all the other seasons too, you know
and it's like so they're clearly good at like
Adapting the source material. Well putting it on five was based on the books, too
You know, I remember season five and six and all those being really good
Do you do you like how they adapted the dorm plot? Did you like?
Well first off if you have you actually read the books or
No. Oh, okay. So he might not know how that was adapted. Yeah, okay, right but
The point of like like season one through four
I think everyone agrees is just like fucking perfect absolutely perfect television, you know, so I
Guess it's just like I you know, I
Want to I want to give those guys at least some type of credit, you know, of course they they're not like
perfect and they're the direction they gone and isn't like
Ideal I guess you suggested like maybe people are going a bit too far to assume that they just have no talent now
Yeah. Yeah, I think like that's that's really what I'm trying to get across is like, you know
Be fair in your criticism. Like don't forget like
Who you know who did what?
I know
Yeah, I just think they don't care anymore. That's my assumption about all this
Could be and they've lost interest. They want to move on to Star Wars
Yeah, the producers to like and now being on time constraints, you know like
So you have no source material you're getting like little to no help from George and now you have time constraints that you've never had
before so like I think no matter who it is
Someone's gonna no matter who the writer is
Even if it was George with these time constraints, I think you know
It would be impossible to have like a truly
satisfying resolution to the whole series
given the circumstances which is you know, which is more or less like my main point and what my
video will probably be about I
Mean look forward to it. I just you know, be careful because everyone hates those two right now
And out of curiosity
Are you aware that?
One of the directors Dave is it Ben off?
Many off. Yeah. Yeah, Benny. Yeah. Yeah. He wrote X-Men Origins Wolverine
Did not see that film
The what people tend to a good laugh. Well, you'll tend to say is he's the writer that so Deadpool's mouth shut
No, you can tell the future a
Spider should have been able to account for that. That's a plot
He actually could tell the future he didn't get killed in the walls
Well, what if it was like it's the Oracle bull thing
It was just like it shows the killing of himself and just as he realizes act man's like shoe comes down
Sorry to nipple into
Squish a bug with something and they're just like keeps moving like nothing happened
A
Poor spider. What did it do to you sir?
It came into my house, you know, that's unacceptable
We have so many spider memes on the show. It's kind of insane
So the chats like sad that you're killing the spider. Yeah, I think that's
Well, he got away. So who's the bad guy now? It's me. I guess
You're still the bad
But yeah, I mean so do you do you think it's hyperbolic that episode 4 is the lowest rating?
Do you think it's the worst episode you've ever seen or?
Of the show episode 4 episode 3 or?
Wasn't 3 like the worst
Rate well, no Ford's got a lower rate and then 3 and I think really or has a lower rating like thanks to 3 possibly
Yeah, probably
I'm more insulted by 3 but 4 is really bad. I I don't think it's
Hyperbolic, you know the thing about the Game of Thrones show even overall
it's like even those two episodes and
You know the episode where they go north to find the white to bring back to show Cersei even though all of those are just like
absolutely
Ridden with plot holes and just like fine travel cheesy writing and plot armor and all this shit
It's like they were still at least entertaining to me like
And I was talking to my brother about this Game of Thrones in these last two seasons
It's it has like a
Dichotomy of like, okay, that was really cool. Wow. That was really stupid
You know like seeing all those characters together. Wow, that's really cool
Like oh, you know, and then talking like Jorah Thoros of Mir, you know
What's what's the guy's name with one eye bar Eric? Oh
Yeah, you know and the hound and like seeing all those guys talk and Jon Snow and torment, you know, really great characterization
What happens after that? Wow, that's really fucking stupid, you know
Like yeah, I think the concept is really good. But the execution is horrible. Yeah, like the thing is cool
How we got there it doesn't make any sense
Yeah, and so like to add on to that episode season 8 episode 3
Malisandre coming out lighting all the Dothraki swords on fire. Holy shit
That's really cool them all charging forward and just like dying. Wow, that was really stupid, you know
Yeah, that episode is just full of that. This is the thing episode 4
On my first watch through I was mostly okay with the fist. I want to say half on rewatches
I'm not because I've been prepping my script for it. There's more problems I've found
But you know, this is the thing the thing with regal was so stupid that like it just yanked
casual viewers out of the episode
I was talking about this before to I think
Alex and fringy know this
so I went for my dentist checkup my my normal annual checkup today and I didn't realize I'd put on a shirt that had
Game of Thrones on it because I have one of those and my dad was like
How are your choppers? Really good. They're just wonderful. He's British, you know the answer to that. I know that's that's why sorry. Sorry
Yeah, so my dentist was like, oh you watch Game of Thrones and then I was like, oh my god a cool dentist
And you know how it is like if you're a reviewer when you're in normal social lives, you just you go with the flow
You're just like, oh, yeah, you know, yes, that's cool. They're like, oh, yeah, you enjoy the new season?
I was like, yeah, you know, yeah
And they were like and I was like, what do you what do you think and then they were like well
not been enjoying it as much as the other episodes and I was like
Really? They were like yeah the battle episode
Bit silly, wasn't it?
Really?
What did you think of the next one with the dragon getting getting getting killed? She was like, yeah, it's another dragon gone for no reason
but
You know god, you have the best dentists. Well, this is the thing. I was like even dentists don't like it
What have they done?
Yeah, of course cuz dentists aren't people. Nope. Not people
Well, obviously the point I'm making is that when you're average audience just people who casually watch TV in the moments of then their nights
So they have an hour free those people aren't having fun
What have you done?
Yeah, I feel like I always have to dial back my opinions when I'm watching
Movies or shows that are terrible with a friend. I was saying bass dentist
Yeah, I mean
Funny when my friends are like laughing at it cuz then I can be like, all right
We all know this shit, but sometimes my friends will be like, oh that was really good. And I'll be like, yeah
nine out of ten dead just hate and season it
Then I have to come home and either hope that you were fringer online so I can
The dentist
The fight scene as a whole it take was silly
You're in trouble guys
Yeah, maybe dentists turn against you dentists of America knows what they lose next could it be the librarians
lose interest
I
Did like you you you didn't like the new ones. Did you hack man or you sort of Ella with them?
the new seasons and episodes
Specifically three and four because I think I think liking one and two is totally forgivable for anybody. It's they're pretty they're pretty tame
Oh
Dude the end of episode one
Like when Jamie comes down and sees brand. Okay, that was
Like that was fucking cool. You know, yeah
Even though like a lot of the you know, a lot of the shit in the new episodes is dumb and doesn't make sense
They're they're at least like being able to you know
Kind of wrap up some loose ends that you know
Like like Jamie and brand seeing each other after it's been like what seven eight years since episode one like
You know, you know, it's cool
So there's a little connection we haven't seen since then. Um, I mean, I also totally melted when when I heard the hug John in episode
Yeah, because that's I really care about those both individually and I care about the relationship
They had being like they're both the runs of the stock litter
They both and this is the thing it's almost cheating because I'm like you're almost
Banking on things that I've been invested in from before you're not necessarily creating something here
Through your own writing it's literally you put I and John in the same place
That's enough for me to go. Oh my god, it's perfect and to be fair like that
you know, a lot of those character reunions haven't happened and you know when it's when like a
Series is coming to a conclusion and those things like haven't happened
It's you know, I think part of it is in service to the fans
and the other part is like yeah, you know, these characters deserve like
some time together to talk like
Jordan Daenerys and
And
What was they going to say so I like for the most part
Yeah, I mean I'm I'm mixed like episodes three and four
you know, I
the plot holes are
Pretty much unforgivable and like the way they killed the dragon. It's like oh you're on just showed up again. Like he's
literally a plot device who'd like
Is motivated by wanting to have sex with the Queen like
Like that's it. Yeah, that's as far as it goes. That's it, you know, so some of that stuff
I think like overall I'm I'm still
Enjoying watching it with like my family and my girlfriend. It's like
It's still entertainment at the end of the day and it's kind of goes back to what I was talking about
Like wow, that was really cool. Wow, that was really stupid. You know, you have these like
These two ends of the spectrum and it's now like
Whereas for the first four seasons it was more like wow, that was really cool. Wow. That was really cool
Wow, this is still really cool, you know
Yeah, for me, okay. I'm pretty sure I told wolf the second after it actually happened
But when regal got hit with the first thing, especially with the way they shot it basically my
Immediate reaction I burst out laughing a joy regret by the way
When I get the episode sound like I don't want to wake up fucking new neighbors
I was like, yeah laughing my ever-loving ass off and I look back and I'm like the reason is there's like
17 things that my brain had a problem with the second that happened
it's like
So many things to break down even the way they shot it was so blatantly gonna be regal is about to die like
Because they just have him in full frame this happy music
She just smiled at him and then they zoom out nice and wide. You're like is he about to die?
But then before you have a chance to like absorb it the second one hits him you're like
I was like, oh my god
I was so confused when I saw that cuz I genuinely thought it was like a dream sequence at first and then it just kept
Going and I was like, oh, this is real
That's suddenly an enormous fleet appears
It's like people unironically have argued they were hiding by the rocks like fuck off just
You were flying above the rocks
Even worse though. I can't get over how much I despise
John not saying goodbye to ghost. Yeah, that's pissed off
For it more than most things and I don't think the showrunners ever saw that coming
Can I just give a shout out to eclipse 21 for this his killer reference our plot armor
Will blot out the sun
If only so we would have to watch this shit
Yeah as cynical reviews just said she forgot about them it makes sense he forgot about them
You guys like that like they fire those baluster the list of
Speared the harpoon whatever they are things at a at a ship and it like obliterates a ship
It's like why did they even have cannons in those days?
This is like
I
Feel it's the overall plot is just like too convenient now. That's that's the main problem. Everything is too convenient
It's
the main
Powerful force he has is you're on Euron's got this big benefit over the sea
This has been established if you're playing a video game his characters like benefits are archery
Ballistas and sea combat, but then it's like okay, but you choose fucking John. It's like oh, he's really he he gives morale boost
He's best on the ground his foot soldiers go with him. That's sort of shit like and and seriously it's like, okay
So we're all gonna team up and attack Cersei. Cool. We're gonna go the water way
And you're like, why don't you just not?
Cuz you remember she's like they suggest that she'll burn any ships that try and give resources to King's Landing
And it's like yeah, I could just picture the writers being like, oh we should throw in a line with Daenerys goes
What ships from who?
Yeah
Saying goodbye to ghost is like layered not hugging Chewbacca at the end of TFA. I'll give you another comparison, dude
John announcing his real heritage to his lifelong family members in the film the show cutting away. What does that remind you?
Lord Orion Johnson influence in this season, I think
Yeah
When Ryan Johnson is like giving you the green light like when he's giving you a thumbs up
You're doing something horribly wrong. Yeah, I don't know how many people know about that. But Ryan Johnson like
Essentially gave his blessing for this shit. In other words, he's not working on this show is he? No, but he was like
Damn it. All of my Night King theories out the window as if to imply
He's now such a little cunt. I hate this person. He's pretending to be
The same person that would react to the Snoke stuff, you know, yeah, I know it's really subverted my expectations
Have you seen the last Jedi?
The thing I think the only way they could have made it worse is having the Night King fall over that they go
Oh, you had a heart attack
It was pretty funny that that they had him smile
That was hilarious
So a lot of people thought I was like an uber badass moment
The thing I liked about the white walkers personally was that they were essentially a force of nature
It wasn't much about them. That was very personal
So the idea that he smirks at someone I'm like
All right, I can when I first saw that like before it really went into my head how much that
That episode sucked. Like when I first saw him smirk, I was like, oh, that's awesome
But the more I think about well the more I think about anything that's happened after season 4 the more I hate all of it
There was a I do like I remember like being invested in
the
The Long Night episode and like, you know, cuz I really fucking love those big
Medieval action sequences like helms deep in two towers that battle fucking played that shit on Warcraft 3 so many times
like and
Earth and Starcraft and
Just like those big defense
Settings and I just remember, you know being hypercritical of their tactics and that kind of like drew me out
It's like why why do you send your cavalry just to die? It's like now you have no cavalry
Why aren't their arches like on the walls? I mean there were but and then like why did they have
In front of the guys rather than behind them not even that it's like I can maybe understand some type of
Positioning argument, but like why do you only have one shot of them like being fired and then they're never used again
It's like can we keep the siege going guys? Like the second the Dothrakiya dead is like fire the trebuchets now
I
Just don't use them anymore
The one good thing about the Long Night episode is that it's reminding people that Lord of the Rings still exists and people are like
Hey, remember this. All right. Awesome. Those movies were let's watch those movies. Yeah
It was a lot of comparisons are made to helm steep
Especially there was a boast that they beat helms deeps record for longest battle like in length
really, yeah, which
Yes, for sure if you slow down loads of portions of characters getting overrun by zombies and don't die
Yeah, you can make a longer battle than helms deep
That's what's it was it longer than the siege of Gondor plus the Battle of the Pelador fields though
I assume they separate those out. I
Don't know though. Maybe not. I don't know. I
Honestly if you told me if you asked me what's longer helms deep or that episode of Game of Thrones from the start of the fight
To the end I probably would have been like helms deep
But apparently not I'd have to just check the numbers, but I I don't care like a lot of it is just
Like I said slow motion
people going
Like as many people have called his Sam died like seven times in that episode
Oh
God after watching
Battle for the wall episode and seeing how much of a better character Sam was just four seasons
I said man, I feel like upsetting
I feel like me and you are the only one that's really and this is obviously other people talked about it
Probably I've checked discussions look to reviews. No, no, I've not really seen anyone else talk about how they fucked Sam like they ruined him
You ruined Sam we destroyed his character
like if you watch
Episode eight or episode three of season eight and then go back to
Was that episode nine of season four? Yeah
Yeah, episode nine of season four like look at what happened to Sam. It's a different character YouTube Sam
defending Gilly
This yeah, that works. Oh, oh and like or are you to bum?
John reunites with ghost
Just YouTube kill me
You'll get the same result
What's the difference is it like his intensity and how he did like oh, it's Sam Sam has an art scenarios
Sam goes from being the coward who's made fun of and is a punching bag in the wall to being one of the most
Confident and level-headed in the wall when the fighting actually starts
Yeah, and then he nearly gets killed defending Gilly and the sole reason is he doesn't want it to be hurt and then you have him
Fleeing in terror when his best friend and Lord Commander is stabbed in the back saving his life. It's
And it's the thing if you if you present this to D&D I imagine they'd be like
Well, this was he was he was very scared and he forgot his development
They need to stop doing those inside the episode things man
People have started to watch them as like comedy sources now
It's supposed to be awesome and epic to get the insider knowledge on things, but they just keep saying stupid shit
They could probably get some pretty good YouTube poops made out of those videos then as someone else I caught
That you guys would love just go check inside the episode for episode 4
So, you know Missandei
We we know that's how you pronounce her name because that's how every fucking character in the entire show pronounce her name
If you watch inside the episode both of the writers pronounce your name is Missandei
I
Get this feeling where I'm like Missandei
Did you get that because you've only ever written her name and you've never heard anybody pronounce it because you don't watch this show
Is that why you called it that?
Don't miss a day
Like ratio we've done that on these are inside the episode videos the like dislike ratio is woof
Well on that one that one was all right, it's getting worse
This is the thing they've they've breached and for they've broken into the the normie view you upsetting, you know area
Once you upset the normies, that's it
You've lost the war over when you get when you get when you annoy like the hardcore law critic people you can survive that
I think but when you've actually like pissed off people who just want to have a nice Sunday night sort of thing
Right, that's trouble
You can you can mess with the hyper critics because we're hyper critics
But like the people who aren't hyper critical once they can start finding huge flaws and yeah, I think
you've significantly
Damaged the show and the fans
one thing that was hella funny is
So we watched the long night and then episode 4 it's like my family and my girlfriend and my girlfriend was telling me about
She was texting her friend about it and her friend was like, yeah
Why was why was Daenerys just flying up in the sky just frolicking through the sky? Like why was she just?
Life is good with her injured dragons, by the way
Yeah, I I just loved the frolicking through the sky
I can't believe thinking back on it now that she just had every single person pull out of
Dragonstone like there wasn't any of her forces there and it's her only
fucking
Seed of power aside from Winterfell
Yeah
Let's just all leave and all come back
It's nothing can possibly go wrong
the whole thing is bizarre the more you think about it and it's such a shame because
A lot of people are calling the correct ending of the entire show is the end of season
I think they're going with first six
Where you've got Cersei's just taken the throne and completely
Solidated it sort of thing
John has been made king in the north and he's controlling the north already for the white walkers approach and Danny's crossing the sea
With all of the armies and her dragons. It's basically
Just just end there and we can all imagine what happens next
You've got so much potential. It's through the roof
Everything is all you know, there's so many different ways you can end that story. I just so what we got is like
The instant I found out like after season six ended that there was only gonna be 13 more episodes
I was like there's something something real wrong here
And can we just mention like they've had two years to make this last season. What yeah, what well spent season
I mean like really you look at this season and it's like what what did they do in season eight that they couldn't do?
in one year
Why did it take two years for them to do that?
Cuz the CGI isn't really that much better
It's about the same but they have said before that they delay so they can get the the winter like
The winter to be able to shoot in but the irony is the winter is already gone in the show
Like things landing looks like it's in a fucking desert
It is in a desert they changed the map and that's the thing the last season ended with Jamie
Noticing the snow in King's Landing
The thing this is the stuff that they forgot
Just like oh fuck I hope you guys don't remember
They literally changed the King's Landing map in the intro for season eight. Oh in the new intro. Yeah
Oh, they altered the terrain
What is that?
So this is the intro for Game of Thrones
I'm guessing a comparison of season 8 to one of the other seasons and
Things landing used to be original the right is the season. Yeah
And yeah, it's a bizarre like what the hell is happening here?
and this is the thing King's Landing hasn't changed up until this very season and the assumption is that they did this because
The way they shoot King's Landing in this season is different from like any other season and I don't know if it's budget cuts
or if it's like
The fact that they were using like a stage
Compared to maybe some other thing they used to do it. But yeah, they just straight up a like King's Land is a different place
Fuck it
Yeah, you boys want to move on
You know what? Sure
Kings Kings Game of Kings Thrones is dead
But um, yeah, I'm actually like cuz like I'm working on a big video for that
the shitty Chinese ripoff series games like how do you think games run is gonna be remembered if the last two episodes are
Of the quality of three and four
It won't be oh
Come on. It will be it'll be infamous
Well
It'll be remembered the same as lost
Yeah, see I think
Yeah, probably about the same as lost because I was gonna say like maybe it'd be better or worse what it would probably
Would it be fondly remember because I think it'd be like it's just the last season of Game of Thrones
Even though that's not true, but I think most people would probably say that
Yeah, I don't I never watched lost. I've only seen the comparison with lost
Everybody's gonna pick a different season for his downfall, but everyone hates the ending
Well, not everyone but you know
Either way, yeah, we can we can kick on
I feel like since it is act man and since wolf likes that a whole halo thing
I feel like we should probably just talk about
The whole halo thing I am I know for whatever I've I've I'm gonna be the the weird one out of the group
Because I've only played halo 3 halo reach halo DST and halo wars. They are that's my career
I didn't play it for long. I didn't complete it and I barely remember it whatsoever
See what you got to do is get a time machine go back to 2001 or 2002 and play combat evolved cuz that shit
Hmm, I mean I was planning on just playing through all of them on when they re-release for PC. I'm like, yeah
Oh hell yeah, just go through it and this this we can give co-op shit. I can play with wolf make him happy
He'll be like, oh, yeah, I have friends
Yeah
But uh, I think combat evolved has the best campaign don't at me does it wolf
I I don't agree with that. I love halo one, but I think halo 3 has the best campaign
Hmm
Maybe halo reach in terms of its level design and well, I guess it depends on which
And on what we're grading it as because if we're talking like
uh enemy intelligence and level design
As much as I don't like reach reach is probably gonna win that because reach has a phenomenal design and really great enemies
I'd say pure from pure gameplay standpoint
I like I like combat evolved the most and I think uh, yeah, I would say is a close second
Combat evolved in three are probably the two that I play the most
Halo 2 if we're grading it in terms of story, I think halo 2 is the best. Yep. Yep. All right. I'll shake your hand
All right. I'll shake your invisible hand too. Whenever we go
What about the best forge?
Um
Probably five. I mean yeah five five is bad of a game as it is five has the best forge indisputably
But yeah by far
I figured the forge should just go to whichever the newest one is because they just keep adding features, right? You'd hope
it
It went like it was pretty solid as a level editor in halo 3 reach really up the bar for
Was an unbelievable downgrade
Five is an unbelievable upgrade
Yeah, seriously, the only thing I don't like about five is how all the parts look like plastic
Yeah, that's just the general art style when you go t for teen man
Can you go t for teen? Oh, you know what? Uh, I forgot I should have talked to you about this wolf
But uh fringy actually showed me
Um, i'm guessing it's halo five could be four. I'm not sure when master chief fights like a random dude
In a place where there's like floaty teleporting platforms. Oh
chief versus so genuinely like
a layman's embarrassing perspective on what because I haven't fucking you know, I ain't got no
Thing on this but wow like I was just like why why any of this there's so much wrong with this
Is that a lame fight or what was that lame or what? Yes, they were hyping up that fight for like two years
Oh god, now you got me thinking about you got me thinking about the choreography in that again
What's with the friends like the group of friends that are doing shit all like what was that about?
Bro, you think about like any sort of superhero movie or even just like a like a boxing match like a normal
Boxing or like mma fight in like how much more intense it is
You know
They just got these like slow wind-up punches and these guys are supposed to be
Spartans in these big ass suits of armor that are supposed to like genetically enhance every single facet of their body
and it's just like
I I described it in my video talking about the issues with the story. Um as two fat dudes fighting over a pancake
Yeah, pretty much they were just so slow clumsy
It was it was embarrassing
So then the armor lock thing I was actually like even from like a lore perspective
I was just like how does that how that works? You can just put it on somebody and it just fucks him up
Yeah, that was just made up in halo five. That wasn't a thing in the previous games
Do you like how how lock also like pulled it out and showed chief and he's like i'm gonna put this on you
It's like hey, how would you hold it behind your back? Why would you show him?
Yeah
Put it on him throughout the entire fight
Like imagine you get into like a bar fight or something or like
You're getting mugged and some guy's like hey
I'm gonna mug you and then he pulls out a knife and like points it at you and he's standing like 30 feet away
And you're just like uh
If you want to hear about some really magically bad writing in halo five mauler
There's a scene in act man. You'll know what i'm talking about. It's the first guns down mission in any halo game
And they have to you have to go around this settlement and ask people
Questions to find clues to find out where master chief has gone
And you go up to one guy
and you're like
Hey, what are you doing? And he's like, I don't want to tell you about the pelican
I saw flying over the mountain. Oh god
And and one of the characters is like did he say something about a pelican flying over a mountain to the east and they're like
Let's find out some more
And so they go to another guy and he's like hey
Do you know about a pelican that flew over a mountain to the east and he was like
I don't want to tell you about the the spartans that went into a factory
And another guy's like did you hear that they said something about spartans going into a factory?
Yeah, and I like i'm paraphrasing a little but it's the exact same. It's the gist is there. That's what it does
That's they like unironically accidentally tell you exactly what you want to know
It is some of the most magically bad writing i've ever seen
Yeah
I think the focus of this this podcast so far has been
bad writing
Well, what is the worst indisputably is halo 5 then is it or oh, yeah
You could probably like story wise I'd say yeah, uh, oh, yeah, we're talking make like in a gameplay argument like
um, I didn't think halo 5 was you know
All that enjoyable gameplay wise, but you know, I mean gameplay wise it was solid
It just wasn't halo is the big problem with it
My most of my problems with halo 5 stem from it's not a halo game and it really destroys the story
If we're uh, every halo game kind of does something a little different
So which I at least quite great them all the same way
Yeah, which you know, at least at least the halo series has that you know with call of duty, you know
A lot of it just all looks the same and plays similar and they've got their different little
Uh gimmicks and whatnot. So
I like to reach
Reach was fire dude
Except for armor lock except for armor lock. I mean, this is the thing. I was always such a casually halo fan
I was just like, oh, is this the new one cool?
Like I uh, I was never invested but this is the problem. I just didn't start early
I think if I did I probably like it a lot
Because man, there's a halo fan base, you know
And uh, oh yeah, a lot of them passed over to destiny and they were like, this is great. Uh, it wasn't
And then it wasn't
Until he did though, I can't believe that's in the game
They're just over dramatic fucking writing speaking of which
Um about this whole bungee and activision split i'm still really skeptical. I don't really trust bungee. What's your take on it?
Um
I feel like
Who did they sign on with or no, they got some
Funding from some like chinese company, didn't they?
I have no idea. The last thing I heard about it is that they split from activision
I don't know what they signed with after that
Yeah, I did a video on it and I i'm pretty sure they still have like a huge amount of funding
Coming from this random chinese company, but I I feel like
um
If they don't start going into like shitty mobile games, I think they'll have more creative freedom, you know
Because the chinese they love their they love their mobile games
um
They'll I think yeah, I think they're gonna be better off but at the end of the day, it's like
Who really knows?
I mean for me, it's like I haven't really seen bungee
Care about a game
They've made in quite a long time and a lot of the people that used to be at bungee aren't at bungee anymore
Like a lot of the talent has kind of gone
Even like all the dlc is like that's that's you know
I've been kind of working on this video for like revisiting destiny 2 and I put it on the back burner for a while
But I just remember like playing through the two dlc's
It was like curse of osiris and war mind and i'm almost through uh forsaken, but those first two it's just like
It's just like why is this a story? Is this am I supposed to care? Who's this?
Is this it's just like an exposition stream
and it's like
Who's that? Oh, that's that's osiris. He was the guy who did the blah blah blah, but yeah, but why should I care?
Why should you care? That's osiris. He was the one who split and it's just like that's the writing
I feel like writing's failing everywhere
Yeah
It was just being more aware of it. Apparently it's really hard to find any competent writers
Well, we're also pretty critical. So
That is true. Maybe if we were just a little less critical we'd be like, you know what writing's pretty good these days
I
still think uh
Yeah, there's always going to be good and bad writing out there and everything in between
So which is the best halo game?
Three
Best multiplayer i'd give it to three best story i'd give it to halo two
Best campaign gameplay i'd give it to combat evolve best atmosphere i'd give that to odst. Uh,
Best overall content i'd give that to reach
And best overall
I I would say best overall is three because it does everything
Really well
Like if we're going to go off of I mean, obviously it doesn't have the best forge, but what it does with it is still effective
Whereas like before you can give it like some credit for a couple different areas, but for most of it you can't
I think it probably comes down to like three or reach depending like really comes down to preference because they're both like
Super filled with content and reach has firefight on top of it as well as a better forge
Don't you like hate reach?
I really don't like reach
Fight fight
If it wasn't for how
Broken and unbalanced the armor abilities were then the multiplayer and reach could have easily been the best
And if it didn't have bloom for that matter
Well, it didn't have dual wielding. So
And that's no halo game after after your three action. No, wait, did odst have dual wielding? I don't remember. Nope
Okay, so everything after three did not have dual wielding and reach
Everyone forgot and reach they had elites dual wielding just to just to piss you off just to show you what you're missing
It's like I want to do that
They had the fucking skirmishers at the very end of the game like at the last level
For some reason they brought in the the new ones. I don't remember what they were called
There was the skirmishers and then there was the dual wielding skirmishers. Oh, yeah with plasma pistols. Yeah
Huh, yeah, we agree that halo 5 is the best
Agreed
What are the assumptions about halo infinite? Is that like is there anything other than just it's announced or?
information, uh
They keep saying we have the slip space engine and it's like what does that mean?
But like
It's just a new engine. Yeah, okay. We have literally no information on it beyond that
I feel like i've heard like little tidbits of info, you know, I would hope there's some kind of like
compilation of all these like like what we know now sort of things because I don't think there's been like
really any big official
discussion by 343
I do remember hearing a rumor that it was going to be like one of the most expensive video games ever made
I don't know the validity of that but
Well, we know how that kind of goes with like destiny
Just because you have a big budget doesn't mean it's going to be good by default
This is true. This is very true
And I I don't know. I can't trust 343 because they haven't really made a great game
I mean the best game they've come out with is halo wars 2 and that wasn't even really made by them
Yeah
They've had a lot of like outside help
Yeah, I suppose it's I mean
Be hopeful right both of you
I mean i'm kind of interested in what they're gonna do because
They've pretty much
disavowed halo 5 from the canon
because it's like uh
Destiny kind of did that with the darkness, you know, they they didn't bring up the fucking darkness at all in destiny, too
Oh, yeah
I mean you look at the steam description for the mcc
And it's like master chief's
Legacy spans over six games and two of those six games master chief isn't even in
They count reach and odst more than they count five which says quite a lot
Could be
Sure, but I I wonder what they're gonna do because I mean halo 5 isn't on pc
I mean custom games is but that doesn't really count
right
So I wonder if it's gonna be like a total retcon of halo 5 or
Or what? I don't know. I'm curious
Yeah, it'd be strange to put every halo game except for five on pc if they were doing that though
Yeah, that's true. Which actually I mean if if they did
If they did put every
Uh halo game including infinite onto pc
Do you think there is still reason to have an xbox one?
Not really
Oh, yeah, I do. Uh, mostly that's just because uh, I I prefer it
Um for a variety of reasons, uh, not exactly trying to go into the console pc debate
Well, maybe we are but maybe
uh
like
Xbox for sure needs like way more exclusives, you know
If you look back to the original xbox shit was just loaded like crimson skies, you know
You had a boating game with guns blood wake there was brute force a four player third person co-op shooter
You had fusion frenzy is like your party game amped snowboarding. I don't know if you guys were huge original xbox fans fusion frenzy was great
Yeah, it was knock off mary party, but that was fine
They had a ps2 not an original xbox
Totally fine. Um, at least for me. I feel like the xbox and like phil spencer in microsoft
Like the console has just such great quality of life and all the like little features they're doing but as like a main selling point
Yeah, they need more exclusives
Yeah, I mean ps4. It hasn't had a I mean it's been it's had a lot of uh exclusives
They've been kind of hit or miss depending on which ones you get but at least they have exclusives
Yeah, whereas the xbox. I mean now that halo is on pc even gears is on pc at this point
So it's like they don't have any exclusives, which i'm not for exclusivity
but
If your console doesn't have anything then well, I don't really there's no reason I would buy a console unless exclusives because
Why would I want to the pc is just?
Categorically going to play the game better if it possesses the game as well as the concept of that
I want my games on pc. Anyway, because they'll last on there
I mean you wouldn't be able to play the ultimate doom on the xbox one right now
Because it doesn't have a player base, but it still does on pc even over 20 years later
Yeah, that can be an issue. Halo will last a lot longer now that it's on steam
And then it's like access to mods usually is not only easier, but also like a stronger community
also and vice versa like keeps games alive the uh
uh
The fan base
Or population count for all the call of duties are or way stronger on console. I know that at least so
Yeah, I think that would be a call of duty guy, you know
Look how's cold you doing these days?
Like is that is there another one coming out soon x-men would know better than me on this one
I mean black ops 4 like
I did way too many videos on that game. There's so much to talk about and just like
I don't know
You know, I was playing uh
Modern warfare 3's multiplayer for that video I did and even though like it's
Not my my most favorite
It it like made it so hard to go back to black ops 4 and the main reason is like the maps like
like unique maps
and
Like call of duty's biggest problem is just making maps small and then having it every piece of cover be a block on a grid
Like that's essentially what the game and the maps are or blocks on a grid
You know if you think of strategic cover in other games how it might might be like cut off at certain angles or you know
Just it's it's interesting. You might have like, uh
murder holes or whatever
It's in multiplayer wise. I don't care for I think blackout and zombies is still really fun. I've been playing that
Um black ops 4 it's a strange game because it released for 60 dollars
but half of the maps
are
remasters that don't even really look very much better from the uh, the original maps and black ops 1
And then on top of that
They they were going on about there's no enhanced mobility, but you have uh infinite sprint
And there's no penalty to when you jump
Yeah, especially the no penalty for when you jump like I don't know how it is on console
But on pc everyone's just bunny hopping like yeah, that shit is annoying. It makes my been really hard
I mean it makes anything really hard. It's extremely
Irritating because once you take out that jumping penalty
Then that's all everyone is going to do and it works in a game like halo where the gunplay is centered around something like that
But call of duty isn't so it really breaks the flow of the game
And then there's also that all the guns are just remasters of guns. We've already had with different names
Uh really overpowered, uh bullshit like the fucking dude who has the rcxd that shocks you
And if you don't press the button within like a quarter of a second
You can't break out of it and even if you can like 10 seconds
Yeah
And even if you do break out of it
It takes so long for your character to rip the thing out and for you to get your gun back that you're dead by the time you're
Uh canceling it out. Anyway, I fucking love the rc cars and uh black ops 2, I think was that when they were introduced?
Where's the black ops 1 black ops 1? Oh black ops 1. Yeah, I played the shit out of black ops 1
That was my favorite card
Yeah, black ops 1 is a really great game really like world of war as well
Oh, yeah, remember when we were playing keynote or toton like a few months ago. Yeah
If then I had to remind you that the thunder gun was useful
Well, the this is the thing. I
No, no, my point was valid the the thunder get the you can talk about the wonder waffle, right?
No, the thunder gun which wonder waffle isn't on that map. Oh, you're talking about the one that blows them back
Yeah, you got that you you got that and you were like, is this useful and I was like, yes
Oh well, fuck. Yeah, I didn't I it's funny you bring that up to me because I was about to say
Yeah, I don't even know what it does
died on round
19 I think because you forgot how to use the thunder gun. It didn't well, I fucking didn't remember it was a weapon
Oh my god
Yeah, you're right wolf. I had to save you I had to save you
Yeah, you failed because you forgot how to use the phone. If only you hadn't failed in the first place
What a freaking casual but yeah, I uh, oh, let me let me test you use zombie
The fanhood act man. Did you ever?
Play world at war shina numa and get infinite weapons
um
No back in the day. I was all about derries
Yeah, no that I love that map too
The reason I love shina numa is because and I hope people in chat know about this too
Uh, there there was like little glitches you could get on all the different maps
But if you would get you had two weapons at max obviously
If you drink a pick and you manage to pick a weapon off the wall or through the pack a punch while drinking it
It would literally just add a weapon to your roster
Um, really?
Yeah
And you could keep doing it
So the idea is that you you do it enough times and then you get down different picks you up and you start rebuying
The picks and you eventually just get the entire set of weapons and you the problem was that um
You didn't through that shit. You didn't get the um, the upgrade machine in shina numa
So you literally would be plowing like everything from the mg42 into a zombie
Like when you get to that level of like level
But shina numa was great. So so open you could just drive an entire horde like around in circles and stuff
Interestingly, I didn't play the correct version of world at war until like black ops 2 came out
Because the world at war I played was on the ps2 which didn't have multiplayer
Didn't have zombies and the campaign was incredibly censored so it could be rated t
Oh god, it was really bad
That was my first call of duty game, too
So I had a really bad impression of the series at first people who play on playstation. Am I right folks?
Oh, you're gonna piss me people
I know
People are gonna take that as a pixel result
uh
But yeah, they always will the campaign in black ops as well
Was this is the thing I haven't played enough of the call of duties to make this statement
But was black ops's campaign the best one or is the compet
Hi, what's this competition? I say black ops 2 is the best
Oh, I disagree with that
Because there's a lot of issues with black ops 2 your subjective opinion is objectively incorrect
Because I played all three more movies and I liked them
But I always thought black ops was better than all three more more his stories and I love captain price, but I mean, you know
Yeah, I mean I I liked modern warfare 2's campaign the best because it was a lot of fun
But its story is really fucky
Yeah, it's it's a bit hit or miss in some places. I'd say I just wanted to know what the mum the numbers meant, you know
Oh
Yeah, someone said black ops classified you remember that one on the psp or uh psvita rather
I never played that I heard about it though. I never played it but I saw like videos of it and it's just tism incarnate
I've always wondered what those just like
Mobile call of duty games play like i've never had
The courage to buy one and let alone play it
Um, I I I would really like to check that out someday
You guys ever play the uh psp vision of battlefront 2 your og. Oh, I did
Yeah, the fucking draw distance on that was insanely low. It was awful. It was like a meter and a half in front of you
Oh, yeah, you know how on moustafar
There's the control center like the draw distance didn't even fill up the entire control center
Like a lot of the rooms were closed off
You couldn't go upstairs because you couldn't look up
Um, you had to lock on to all the enemies because otherwise it wouldn't work
Renegade squadron and elite squadron managed to fix that up though
As draw distance how far you can see ahead of you? Yeah, like it would just show like a gray
Flat of nothing in front of you like imagine going on kashik you get out of the the siege wall
And you literally can't even see the water because it just looks like there's fog there
Yeah, I remember that being like one of the biggest problems of the og battlefront even on like console and computer
Oh, yeah, you can uh fix the
The og battlefront which speaking of which did you uh hear that's actually on steam now?
Oh, yeah, the og battlefront 2 about them one as well
No battlefront one battlefront 2 has been on there for a while, but battlefront. Oh, yeah
Recently came on there in like the past week or two
Og battlefront one
Okay, by the way, I fucking hate that they just
They just call them battlefront one and two. Yeah
Oh, I hate that too
It's like are you talking about the old one or the new one?
It's like fuck you there is a correct battlefront one and two and it's the originals original
2004 2005. Oh the ea battlefronts. Yeah, it's it's frankly insulting because
The og battlefronts are way better. They have so many more maps so many more characters so many more
custom classes and
Of hot some classes, but classes in general like yeah, they they genuinely are good games and battlefront one and two from ea are just terrible
I think the difference is like
They are definitely dated
Um, they're still fun. It's more so like the features they had like like the first battlefront game
Is is very dated? I would say the second one is slightly less dated
If they had the maps from the first game in the second game, it'd be really fucking good
There's some good maps from battlefront one like renvar harbor. Oh, yeah
Yeah, that that's the one that i've always loved renvar sit at l2
Um, fuck there's another one, but i'm
Oh, uh kashik docks. That was another really great one
But oh, yeah, the maps are cool, but they're way too open
Like there's not enough cover for most of them which battlefront uh two fixed a lot
Yeah, that's true
Just like uh, you know from a technical standpoint the new like battlefront two the new one the ea
2017
it like
It certainly is more refined in terms of gameplay
I I just love that the battlefront three leaks from like 2000. What was it seven or so?
They look better than anything we've had from the ea games
I mean even a elite squadron on the psp is a better game than either of the ea games
Literally, we should have just had battlefront three and then and then just kept going from there. Yeah
That's the timeline. I want to be a part of yeah
We'll always have og battlefront
It's just that we starts have to go out of uh business
So anyway you guys want to look at memes
We got pictures or videos there's a couple of pictures and then one video, uh, we'll have to set up a watch together link
You know the thing you always forget to do
In a moment we'll just i'll get pictures done first
They're just these things you gotta you know, you gotta see wolf because you won't be able to see a couple things for a while now
Oh, yeah, it's gonna be a few weeks before I can see any memes. That's like the first one
Oh, yeah, uh the context here act man is that um, there's been a couple uh a couple shows
Where i've left to go get pizza
And now the meme is that every time I turn off my mic i'm going to get pizza
I did a stream. That's pretty great
And uh, I was invited to go on geeks and gamers show
And so I left and I went to the bathroom and people in the chat on geeks and gamers channel
Were saying that I left to go get pizza
Yeah, I don't know if you saw this one but it's still it's it's beautiful
I'm starting to think this bilbo baguins fellow didn't actually say
That is a disgruntled fan right there who isn't believed that's live
Yeah, we we constantly make fable baguins memes, too
This one might be tough to read but it involves you so I had to have it
Okay. Oh it does. Oh, I gotta
Lean in here
Why was there a dumb?
What does that say?
id with a suicide bomb jacket with
something
alarms
I don't know almonds
God damn it. And I thought this
Oh, what does that say? I thought the movie these idiots are
Working on was pretentious
Then i'm saying hey wolf raggers
What did we just see it was like a quiet place but without the okay acting atmosphere and a pretty darn good concept
I think this is us watching arrival. Maybe
I don't know. I think it's called the something
Is there a dumb kid with a suicide vest there wasn't a kid with a suicide vest in there though the sons of dick van dyke they made
Something films because people are idiots wolf. That's well
I think we mostly got it
It's a pretty great sketch there i'd say we love all
Uh that comes in the photoshop ones with hot stone cards
Vacuum soul. Oh god. Yeah, the efap movies meme
There's uh, there's a point it mounts all the good stuff here. Yeah. Have you ever heard of the movie unicorn store?
No
It's a it's a brie larson movie where she's trying to sell vacuums and she there's a line in the movie
Where she says this isn't a vacuum for your home. This is a vacuum for your soul
Vacuum soul
And on that note boys
I think it's about time. I hit the old dusty trail. Oh, well, I mean just before I there's just a few more of these
You should totally this one. I just quickly get out of the way for wolf. I can that's real by the way
No way. Apparently this guy's mother made it for him
That's amazing
Can you imagine like having to explain that official efap merchandise in my opinion?
Oh my god, now we need to actually sell this you just sell e rhino milk thermoses
Yeah, that's I wonder if we could get that done through some kind of merchandising sort of website
I love the the comic sans font it really
Yeah
And then these two just froze for like a second that was weird
And then these are like the pro droids that are just kind of like insane
I know I think you've seen this one wolf, but I just have to make sure
Oh, yeah
Wow
And there's I don't know if you saw the you've gotten fat and there's the avengers one. Did you see the avengers one?
Oh, yeah, you show me this. Oh, well, it needs to be done live. I guess to make sure bayouin sees that you've seen it
Uh, yeah
There's a new one is freakishly talented. Oh boy. This one the detail set up is eight peck or is that four sets of tits
It's whatever you want it to be. Look at this one though. Just look at this
ryan johnson, fuck you fucked in and dan fuck it
I'm actually alex chills. I have a picture. Yeah, this is an artificial barriers of blockage
Oh my god, okay. I'm gonna they're all really good. They're amazing
The rido milk and you got a little uh
Little or the blind forest, uh, oh my god
I even have the alex jones a haircut. Yes, you do. I love it
Wolf perfections
God damn it bayouin. This is too good. Oh, yeah, there is a little orie. I love it
Um
But yes, uh that is I mean there is I see that
Nice detail
Beautiful. The whole thing is beautiful. And this is the thing. I feel like almost like they're getting more detailed as they go
Because this is bayouin's rise to uh fame
It's kind of terrifying how good of an artist bayouin is how much effort he puts into pictures of of this
Yes
Wonderful, uh, but yeah, obviously I don't know I don't want to keep you for longer than you can but I really appreciate you
You coming today mister of course the act man
Would you like to maybe I don't know talk about your channel just a little bit so I can
I can throw you the link in the old chattaroo and uh, people can consider subscribing to you
Sure. Oh, by the way, I love that. You just changed your profile picture to that
Fucking face that that's a really good profile picture. I might
Yeah
Well, my name's the act man, you know, I do all sorts of videos and by all sorts of videos
I mean about video games, but um
Yeah, you know
old games new games why they're awesome why they're bad maybe mediocre awesome and bad, you know, just kind of
a review channel and as far as like how how much I go into the videos and
I feel like i'm describing this in a very bland way, but you know
Like just very by the books description I do a b and c
I mean you do a b and c. Well, so isn't that just a sale right there?
Yeah
Um, yeah a b and c if there are just do them. I do them. Well zach gilbert just said there's there's super chat questions
Potentially for for the acting male, um if there are i'd have to go through them first
So the i'm afraid I don't think he's going to be able to get to them
Um, uh specifically, but I can always
There's so that you know, we usually read super chats at the end of the show and um
There may have been questions for you amongst them
Okay. Yeah, if you want to check those I can do this if what I mean, I don't know if I can roll f act
maybe
I'm more so just like um
I need to get two uploads set one for the main channel and one for my second channel
And so I just need to do that before I go on this little trip
Uh, which is in a few hours
I also want to have time to uh suck my own dick. So there's that
indeed
I can find any question a lot of just memery, you know
Memery. Oh act man. Have you seen dragon ball super brawly and any gundam?
Nah, I haven't
I wish I could give you a better answer than that. Well, you know, I mean it's the truth
See the brawly movie. Um
They killed him off like three times already. So
Act man. Love your videos, dude. We're still waiting for a public commando sequel
Damn right we are
And you know what we're probably never gonna get it, but we might get a mod here and there that you know fills the void
Broly not brawly I wouldn't know because i'm not a we
I would never do such thing. I mean I I have a katana like
We do like but yeah, well you get it when you get a first degree black belt
So that is awesome. I'm not um, I found a lot of so there's a lot of super chaps that are like
I love you act man. And uh, will you marry me act and standard stuff?
Um, I couldn't find any questions
Do you want to have you got like maybe five or ten minutes if you want to just ask chat if they want to ask
Any questions quickly maybe answer a few like quick fire. Hey chat go for if you've got the chat app
Do you want to pick them yourself or uh?
Going to read them out. Um
You can pick them for me. All right
I'll pick it up if I see one. I really like
There is a closet we've no
I think you might be
Molly
Do they call you that molly? I I have seen a few animu. This is true
And it's malsey, thank you very much malsey's immusely
Usually holy bayouin act man is a badass
X man thoughts on adoption. Wow
Wow
Our trap's gay. What do I think of ace attorney fucking fire ass story games, bro. Have you guys played those?
I have not any I have not
Okay, um
Well, I
I don't want to live in the world that you're in right now. I'm sorry
It's a tough one. We get by yeah, nah those
Ace attorney games are like some of the best
Written story games i've ever played. I definitely put them in like
Top five series of games like story wise
Those and those are like ds games, you know, oh shit. Okay. Does your dick stink too?
Nah, I watched it
Curious about that
Oh, hey, there you go act man. What made you interested in martial arts?
Wow a real question. Would you look at that? You did it adam high five adam
Uh, I actually didn't get interested in it
Uh, I was kind of a real shithead kid
And so my parents were like how do we reach these kids, you know, except it was singular with me and uh
They just brought me to a martial arts dojo one day when I was in like eighth grade
I had previously been like expelled from my school, but I went back the next year
Because my parents like were able to convince the principals and whatnot
anyways
So the year after I had gotten expelled in seventh grade, they brought me to this dojo and I just like watched
you know the class and uh
Wasn't very interested but eventually they signed me up and you know, that was like over 10 years ago
And i've just been doing it since and it's i've learned to get interested in it over time, you know
It's more so like the discipline
The workout what you learn, you know, i'm pretty confident like like I would fucking love to do
Fight choreography in some capacity like that would be a dream job for me. So
Uh, a lot of things get me interested in martial arts
Yeah, that's awesome
Yeah, yeah. I've never been interested because uh
Moving and exercising those things kind of like terrifying like I just don't
Oh risk that you have to talk to people too like
Go outside like these things. I don't know
I used to instruct kids there like kids five to like 16
I
Used to have uh fight instructor kelly day
So kelly's my first name and I wasn't a black belt at the time
So sir had to call me instructor kelly my master
We'd have fight instructor kelly day where i'd put on these pads and they'd give these kids these like foam swords and they'd all just
Wail on me. Oh god, that was fun. Shit
You ever like accidentally beat the shit
Yeah
Maybe yeah, I was gonna say the silent says a little bit a little bit
I this one time I was showing them how to do like sidekicks and I accidentally
Like hit a kid just a little bit and he started tearing up and I was like, oh god. No, there's parents here. Please don't
Um parents watching the class i'm not sure how you want to respond to this because uh, how do you feel about receiving review keys
for games
Um, do you mean like from like companies? They're like, hey review my game and i'll give you this key or something
I would I guess that's what they're asking
Oh like review copies. Um, you know, I got one for halo wars 2 back in the day and it was it was a really cool experience
You know, I really liked that game and uh, that's pretty much the only review copy. I think i've gotten
Of course, I didn't you know hardly check like my emails and stuff
I more or less just focus on like doing content and you know stuff like this and you know
interacting with fans, so
There's that whole like business side to like being a youtube channel and I don't necessarily like pursue that as much
You guys know what i'm talking about? Yeah
Kind of like one of the lack of a better term keep it real
Yeah, like sponsorships. I mean there's a you know, kudos to people that do that and can do it
Um, I would certainly love review copies and whatnot
Depending on what type of gamer series it is, but you know, I think it's I think it's cool
um
I think there's something to be said about like the type of person that gets a review copy
From who they're getting it from and like is like is this person going to just like say good things about this?
Because they're getting the review copy like I feel like that that's a separate issue, you know
That can arise
Um act man, which of your adopted children do you love the least?
Ooh, the ugly one
Good answer
Um, but yeah, uh, I mean, you know, I I don't want to keep you know, so uh, thank you very much and a lot
There's still more questions though. I would oh, I mean if you want to if you want to go ahead and jump into any more
I'm totally yeah
Sure
The british animated netflix series called hilda. Well, when have the british ever created any meaningful lack at it visual media?
Lack at it was amazing
Uh, no, I haven't heard about hilda asking the orphan question
The fucking orphan question
But that episode we did the episode nine consistency. Um
I I feel like they've already asked you when they asked which of your adopted children. Do you love the least?
perfectly
Oh really the ugly one. That's the only answer they really have intended suicide. That's wow. That's a good one
You do are taking a leap of faith there you're like, I know act man is gonna kill himself, but you have a date in mind just
Yeah, it's after game of thrones ends
Oh
At least that's how it is for me
I mean, well, do you remember the season one where uh, robert baratheon talks to netstock for the last time and then he says, um
Maester comes back in he goes get me something for the pain and let me die
People have been quoted that about watching game of thrones season eight
Yeah, accurate side note though. I will say robert baratheon was one of my favorite characters. He was awesome. He's
Yeah, he's
One of the best actors on that show. Oh, he was one of the only respectable fat people
Yeah
Fucking seen he's respectable for all the wrong reasons. Yeah
Yeah
Joining the toxic brood
I mean everyone's welcome. So i'd say you're definitely an honorary member of the toxic brood at this
Yeah, we're technically the hate mongers of the toxic brood
What's that toxic brood?
Sounds like a starcraft thing like a band deep reference. Oh
I'm, sorry. I'm not cultured. Oh, here's one from the salad king himself
Greetings your grace my salad king
How does it feel having lived long enough to see all your favorite franchises go down in flames, you know
Well, damn, I should compile a list. There's like paper mario banjo kazooie halo to a certain extent call of duty. Um
at the same time it's like i've
I don't think so much about like
Or at least now I don't think so much about like oh the the negative direction it's gone in. I more so like
Cherish what i've had and what I had and nothing lasts forever sort of thing. So
um
Yeah
It's it's not it's honestly not terrible. Like, you know not having a good paper mario game for fucking
15 years, right
Okay, it's just a kid's game. So play with paper play with real adult things. You shut your mouth
Play with like good, sir. Play with play with rubik's cube as an adult. Why don't you build a shelf like a real man?
Yeah, rubik's cube the video game. I would play it. I would complete three levels all schools on podcast return
Shit, dude. I haven't done a podcast in like a year. So the the thing about that, I mean not gonna
Uh promote another podcast on a podcast you are welcome to if you want to
Well, I haven't done we haven't done it in like a year
well
There's nothing to promote but it basically the reason I stopped doing it
And you know if if I ever did it again
I'd obviously love to have like both of you guys on but the reason I stopped doing it more or less is
it
Didn't really fit in with the rest of the content on my channel. I felt like and it just
It would distract from other videos and I felt like the performance of those podcasts didn't do all that
Well, it it definitely had like a lot of people really loved it
Which i'm so surprised that you know, even a year later people are like, hey
The podcast you did did you just forget about it asshole? It's like no I didn't but you know, I have my reason
so maybe someday
And uh, what are your thoughts on our lord and savior medea?
Um, well she's been to prison she's uh
That's the only movie I can remember as any good lord and savior should have
You need to know that they're fallible so that they're relatable
It does
Other right boys, all right. Yeah, I was gonna say if there's any more interesting questions, I
Running out of paper mario is for the true intellectual
The intellectual gaming community
Oh, oh strategy games like oh man
Now you got everyone asking questions and they're just bombarding me
And so, you know, there's eventually going to be like some really really good ones
strategy games
uh, fucking love starcraft
Warcraft
And age of empires. Those are like the three big ones. Oh and halo wars. I fucking love strategy games, man
Did you uh, did you play h of empires four?
Nah, nah age of empires two all the way man
No, I mean well because it's like I was kind of tempted to play because I heard charles dance was like voicing all of it
But then isn't it like a microsoft store exclusive or whatever?
Or was that age of empires three? They don't have age of empires four out. Do they? Yeah, I might be
Maybe i'm fucking that up. Ignore me. I feel like i'm probably fucking that up. Oh shit
Maybe they're making it in progress. Oh, is it what am I thinking of? Hey chat. What is charles dance voice?
Maybe he voices a character in the witcher three. That is true
That's the only game character I know of I don't know what else he's done though
But all right lads
Thanks for having me on. I appreciate it. Check out the channel and subscribe if you want to go for it
You can find a link in the top of the description. I believe and uh, what will you be covering next? Give him a tea. Um, I actually got uh
Avengers end game video that i'm going to be uploading
Today i'm pretty sure if everything checks out, you know, if monetization is all good
What's uh, what's your take in in in a tease way? What are we talking about? Um
It's pretty good it's pretty good
it's more so like a
Overall review, you know and and like me trying something new with a movie review
So i'm kind of more or less playing it a bit safe
And because the movie's not out like on dvd
I don't have the footage and so kind of you know got scraps to work with which is all right. So
Make sense. Yeah, good shit
Yeah, good shit
Take care boys. Peace. All right, man. See you around
See you around buddy
What a loser
Couldn't even stay the whole seven hours. Well, I was gonna say so uh, well that was that was the intro to today's episode
Um, but we will be get i'm afraid well if it's not just going to be me and you i've we've got we've got fillers, you know
People who are gonna come in here and ruin everything
I see oh, sorry
I don't do it to torture you. I just bring them in because you know
Why not? I i'm gonna have to update the fucking
Isn't me description as well now, aren't I?
Oh, it's a jay a man with an ice pack on his head sometimes filler here what's up y'all
My new guests
What did you just say jay?
Oh, what kind of person would invite the same people on their streams for every every stream?
This isn't that I don't do that. You two are brand new. This is carlton. Say hello
Hello carlton
J. Carlton, I
Didn't want to be carlton. Thanks. And then and then
Carlton's brother josiah. You say hello. Oh fuck. Can I still be carlton?
We're both carlton binks and i'm wolf jones. Yes. Hello wolf jones. I'm just regular mulesley
Foreign all um my my chat's still frozen by the way, so this is great. But uh, no, I got the chat up
They're all asking for froggled, but froggled's not online. He is
He's a sleeping man. He's an australian
You don't know nothing about being awake at reasonable times
so
Uh, we can move right along to good old watch together because where's your guest rags?
This is the we we have him on too often. Okay
That is true
Uh, did we have another meme video to watch we do but it's a meme video
Which means everyone's got to jump into watch together. Yeah, that would be why I said a meme video
That's why I said you got to jump into Washington
Oh utism i'm in the watch together. You just joined it you liar
All four of us did. Yeah, because I just posted it
I mean sometimes looking at pandas is just what needs to be done
Like people say it as if it's some kind of like hateful thing to look at a panda, but you know
They want to be looked at but can we discuss this for the next 10 hours?
Yes
All right, why have I got I got a tism link for this
Um, okay, let me just eat fat feet pro jared next I don't think pro jared
Have you guys heard about that i'm guessing oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, i'm guessing jay hasn't he's he's a weirdo. I know what you're talking about like I woke up to it
It was horrendous
I mean, oh
That's just it's all over. We talked about it briefly at the beginning, but it's like oh my god
Froggled actually was the one I was discussing it with it was
You shouldn't laugh. Okay guys, it's
Very serious. And has the thing happened? I'm really serious. The thing has happened
Give him give him the quick vision one of you go on
I
Do I want to know no
Okay, so pro jared is a dude who makes gaming videos, I guess I haven't seen his channel, but his face looks familiar
You probably know kind of looks like a little bit like an alien just a little bit
Yeah, just a little right. Um, and I guess basically he
Started cheating on his wife and he filed for a divorce with her on twitter by blocking her
I mean I wouldn't all I know people were saying he broke he divorced her on twitter
I don't know if it's a meme or if it's like straight up like he didn't tell her and he just did it through twitter
Like that's the most bizarre thing ever. But what I do know is that it wasn't like discussed
And so she was like shocked to see that I guess and he also blocked her on twitter. Well
Yeah, from what I understand like he he got the divorce
He didn't like divorce her over twitter
But like he had posted the announcement that they had divorced but his wife couldn't see the announcement because he blocked her
Which is odd
Yeah
Especially when he says oh i'm all about the well-being of my wife and I love her so fucking much
But like um, but you blocked her. Yeah, and then she uh, she spilled some stuff onto twitter and it's called havoc for his channel
Mm-hmm so much like 56 000 subs worth of havoc
Oh climbing
Yeah, it's still going
I've looked at it just before we started the show. That was
That was like what an hour ago. Yeah, I think we're sitting on
Bro, I want to see
Oh my god, it's raised by almost 20 000 in the past hour
Yeah, jesus christ
He's lost almost as many subs as mundane matt has
What your comparison every time
Because this is the biggest youtube mess since mundane matt
At least that I know of
Well, yeah, and yeah, so among other things like dm's nudes and just big
Dirty laundry has all come out and it's made a lot of people not like pro jared
He went from being a real big youtuber to uh, he ain't gonna be a big youtuber anymore
But oh I
If he's got a side to the story he needs to get it out now
like
The first thing that comes up when you search him is uh, uh pro jared is beyond saving
Well, the thing though the evidence stacks up like against him very badly
I haven't looked into how like secure all the evidence is but like oh my god
Don't do a mundane man. Just not talk about it for three months and then finally go, you know
That wasn't a great thing. Don't go on a stream and say that you were picking up boulders with your child
Yeah, that's just some good advice to not do that
Um, oh, yeah people are also mad at peanut butter gamer for defending him
Uh, who's that he's someone who works at normal boots. I believe my history with
I need a historian the channel that started with jontron
Because like jontron and then a few others were a part of the normal boots crew
including peanut butter gamer and
Pro jared and a couple of others not entirely sure i haven't followed them very closely for a while. But uh, yeah
um, and
yeah, there's a there's a lot of because jontron got trending as well and apparently it's related to the fact that
Like these people distanced themselves from jontron the second the destiny debate came out or at least the quotes from the destiny debate came out
And uh now it's sort of being looked at as a um
How can you like?
Moral I wrote jontron when you're doing stuff like that. I think is the narrative right now again
Look into this stuff for yourselves. I just found it all insane
And uh, yeah, like I said, i've never seen more of a fire sale on a on a youtube subscribe count
I was just like holy shit
Someone said waller mags roll fae and jingy
That sounds offensive. Anyway, is everyone ready for a meme video?
indeed
This is gonna be
Fresh off the presses it was linked in the discord and I think on my twitter
Feel bad because it's unlisted. I hope this guy's okay with this showing it
But anyway, yes
Obviously gonna have to do some pausing
But this is the new episode of game of thrones, uh game of thrones is a very good show and everyone should watch it, right? Well
No, all right. No, not at all
Tlj right since we know what happens this is like oh
Do you do do you know what this is going jay, I have no idea. All right, this is gonna be great
Be a surprise to you then
It wasn't one
I just know what's gonna happen
Oh like they do the riots looking at tlj like oh my baby
This video is going to spoil everything
Oh that means
Fuck you
I am absolutely. Okay with your year on in this situation. Absolutely. This is poetic. This is catharsis
This is incredible
Okay
Jesus fucking christ, here we go
You're getting globally creamed creamed
Where was that from um, I don't remember that
So the channel is all oh you mean for the episode or yeah, where was that quote from?
uh
That's probably maybe this one from one of rags. It kind of sucks
I'll have to show him this video when he's on monday just so he can tell me where that's from
um
But yeah, uh
He should take this off of unlisted. That's beautiful
That was orbit dark link. Um, but yes, I
The description is at least one good thing about the new season
Uh, I love it, I haven't seen any of these episodes so that was a that was pleasant
I forgot there was a meme to show that was
This is the thing. I um, actually I lost
Here's a picture. There's just one. I missed you. You're gonna love this one. Um
There was some super chats that were saved ready to ask wolf questions because apparently that's becoming a meme now that you need to leave
And then people fucking send it but I lost them. Uh
Oh, no, they were in a notepad and then my pc
Restarted because it had like an auto thing and then I was like no
And now I know to save a fucking notepad called wolf questions because I can just keep deleting and adding new ones
so
Uh, yeah, sorry about that. I have someone but I think a lot of them were memes like one of them
I think was designed to just hurt your feelings. Um
Yeah, it was it was like I haven't seen lord of the rings or something else come at me and
Just wanted to tell you that
Right I will I will
So, uh, enjoy all righty can't wait
Hello to tonal the
I love it
It's beautiful
Um how we had the same thought and yeah, so funnily enough
This is a weird because we did like conversation then memes and now we're actually going into the main event here
Um, yeah, we're revisiting tonal bloke once again
Now we have a choice of two videos
We're probably going to get through both of them considering I don't have two hours into the c-fab yet
Um, yeah, but i'll let the the the guests vote on which one they'd like to see first
so is hate culture a problem in the game industry or
The truth behind the next video game crash
Oh gotta be the first one
And jay, I agree. Yeah, I agree
All right hate culture it is so this I believe the context
Because me and wolf wanted to cover this a long time ago
Wasn't it to do with the fact that he got like a really bad backlash to reviewing battlefield five positively?
I think it was well, he's got really bad backlash from a lot of things
So it could be like it could be multiple different videos. I wonder if he references the toxic bruise
Hey, what's going on?
Yeah, I think I think he provides some context. So let's just enjoy the musings of one tonaled house. Look
Hey, what's going on guys? I don't want to talk about a very important issue. I guess not just another gaming industry, but I know he's
I didn't want to make this video
sigh
Capitalize the v it's got like the same tone. Does it capitalize his name? Why would he capitalize?
The same tone as those charity adverts about the dying children. Oh god. No, it's like the the adverts with the in the arms
Oh
Great game choice tonal. This is uh, what is this?
This is a shadow of the tomb raider it's really bad. Oh for some reason I thought it was anthem. I don't know
No, I guess not just in the gaming industry
That's coming from me and I like the first two tomb raider reboots. I didn't like this game at all
Oh this what was it? What was it called?
Shadow of the tomb raider everyone's demanding half speed fine
fine
Rags seem to be the one that couldn't handle half speed totals. We're free
Hey, what's going on?
Very important issue
I guess not dude. He's he's jared now industry, but pretty much anymore you look
This is just totaled in hands someone said slow and old
Pictured like slowpoke with totaled's face
I I feel like that would be like uh tonaled but with his eyes looking in different directions
Anyways guys here it comes you wait
But pretty much anymore you look on
YouTube reddit's are the sources. I love the the slowed down music
You're the tomb
The communication between people
Wait, did he just establish the reddit youtube and whatever else or places in which people can communicate?
That was the qualifier for them just to clarify internet
YouTube reddit's or any other sources of communication between people
Any other sources of communication between people? Yes in the world
While this is an issue that I definitely have to deal with quite frequently on my channel
It's also an issue that many other people have to deal with too
And that is the issue of people hating on people critiquing games negatively
I guess you can call it hating on the hate
He said hate on the hate
He's involved there in the thing. Well, I mean, I think this is a fair topic to go
We've always heard thunder right I've never experienced hate everyone loves my work
We've all said bad things about things and got bad things said to us because of it
What about I heard I heard thunder. So if you hear thunder, that's me
Oh don't die. Okay. No, I'm on battery backup. I'm good
You can tell it's bad because of the fire
Oh, yeah, I was gonna say that does I like the thematic element of destruction fire burning
I guess you can call it hating on the hate even though that the hate in the first place may be
some valid criticism
What about if the hate of the hate is valid criticism?
I think that as the internet has grown and people are becoming more accustomed to being able to speak out on social media platforms
And youtube comments sections across the globe. It allows more conversations to be had
But sometimes those conversations are not particularly good
particularly
good
What i'm referring to specifically and I guess i'll stay on the course of the video game industry is on the cost
Anyone else catch that?
I'm i'm confused. No
I think he he wanted to say he wants to say on course with the video game, but he said cost
I'm crazy
particularly
Good what i'm referring to specifically and I guess i'll stay on the course of the video game. It's forced
I'll stay on the course and course buddy
There's no
What is cost like?
I'll stay on the course
Even i'm pretty sure he's trying to say on course, but i'll let it go. Yeah, this is a very important emotional video
Okay, this is just one take
Yeah
Industry is a person out there creating some sort of piece of content that is negatively critiquing said game
And this could be a youtube video. It could be a simple comment
It could be a post on reddit. It could be a post on twitter anything like that
For example person a critiques negatively
It's like okay, we know what this means dude
No, he needs to explain this. You understand he's talking about a very specific thing. It's gotta be 10 minutes
Look, he's only made it like 38 seconds over the 10 minute mark. I wonder how much of that is outro
That'll be interesting. Oh boy
Game a but then all of a sudden person b comes around and starts calling person a names such as you're a hater
You have no idea what you're talking about
You guys know the story. You're a hater is a name apparently
All right, that's just mauler mauler
You're a hater. Uh, you can't prove that with tonaled
Blessings, okay, you have to do
Also, I need to get the blessing of tonaled to know if you're really a hater
I thought you had the blessing of tonaled. I was about to say don't we all
Under the teachings of tonaled we can't really be blessed by tonaled until he comes on the show
But that'll that's that's the last episode of efab
Speaking of which again
If you get tonaled on the show in the three weeks that i'm gone, I will hate you forever
No, he's like I wanted to come on once that awful man wolf was not here because he was very rude to me
I can see wolf crying listings that pocket my lord, please genuinely. It's like got him on when I wasn't there
And
B comes around and starts calling person a names such as you're a hater
You have no idea what you're talking about. You guys know how is you have no idea what you're talking about a name?
That sounds like a valid criticism
The story quickly these conversations turned into bickering wars which then turn into
Name-calling bad mouthing and sometimes racism or prejudice gets thrown in the mix as well
and it's just not a fun situation for anyone the fucking frame is frozen for me, but the
The audio still is playing so
I really like what i'm seeing it fine weird for me
And it's all because person a said something about game a that person
Is
Also, the point of using examples is so that you don't have to say stuff like person a and game a and like
An example, this is like a hypothetical. It's not an example
No, why he's not like breaking it down. So crazy like we understand the point, right?
It's like person said a mean thing to you when you did something that was justifiably valid
I mean you could literally get over what he said. So and and yeah, like a few seconds like you just did
There's a mean online stop it stop being the mean
Yes
Be compiling on person a and it just turns into a flame wars and it gets out of control really quickly. Hang on
Compiling on person a is that actually how you're supposed to use that word do it compiling? Wait, is that what he said?
Listen to again offense to
Unfortunately, what happens next is that's more people with the same mentality of person b compiling on person. Oh
Filing on okay. Thank god
Well, it turns into a flame wars and it gets out of control really quickly
It's honestly something that pile on you guys some flame wars
Oh, man, you know club penguin days
Brewed compiles each other. Well, don't be you don't know what you're talking about. Okay
Don't
This makes me sick and fills me with disgust when I see name calling bad language hurtful things being thrown around
What do you see bad language?
Oh my god, we're still stretching boys. I need all of that. I have to listen to get in slow boat do it
Do it
you need to
It just turns into a flame wars and it gets out of control really quickly
It's honestly something that makes me sick
And fills me with disgust when I see name calling
bad language
hurtful things being thrown around
Just because someone said something bad about a game that person b
Did not agree with
You know what guys i'm gonna break down why it disgusts me it's like please stop
Couldn't have made more spelling errors trying to get that out quickly. I think I did it though
It's honestly something that makes me sick and fills me with disgust when I see name calling bad language
Hurtful things being thrown. I would say and hurtful thing. What are you doing tony tonal?
Whoa
You just docked him. Yeah, god
What you guys don't think this true name is tonaled
No, no, his true name is obviously tone. I really wouldn't want to blast fame though
So i'm just gonna keep my mouth shut that's fame. Actually someone said something bad about a game that person b
Did not agree with a because human beings should be respectful
Should be respectful to each other
Have a job to do
It feels like um, we've been taken into like we're in like the third grade and we've been taken into a special assembly
Because someone called someone else a cuck
You'll draw some you should be respectful to one another as all humans should be
Also, i'm pretty sure he's using a song he used in uh, gedel two really
Yeah, beautiful. I think it was like the one you used for at the end
Uh, let's play a normal speed second
I really like that. He I really like the idea that he saw gedel two and that was his takeaway
Like oh, these are some good songs. I could use these in my videos
It like leaves a calling good message, by the way, I really enjoyed the breakdown
He's like, thank you servants
Be because it's destructive
Towards the critique of said game and the development of like games in the future in that genre and that game type
Let's think about this for a second
Oh my god, can we not let's think
He didn't capitalize the l like why not
I just I like that as a title thing. It's like my favorite trope with video essayists
Let's put a word on the screen that I said
Words to you
If person a's critique was negative, but it was valid
What could developers learn from valid?
Valid?
Valid? I think that needs a slo-mo
Stop calling me valid. Let's think about this for a second. If person a's critique was negative, but it was valid
Whoa, what could developers learn from that? Well, they could learn a lot
The only way
You're great awesome
What could they learn from that they could learn
Slo-nold is definitely
That's a bilbo bag is quote right there what could they learn from that? Well, they could learn a lot
therefore tonaled is
Lonal
hahahaha
Get better in this industry is by accepting the critique
Slo-nolds pauses and double the leg
I need more of this
The way games get better in this industry is by accepting the critique
And sometimes it is valid even though it's negative did you say this like
It's valid and it's valid
Come on tolled get to the next point. Yes, I went on screen
I understand that many people uh, sometimes bad things are true
This now I forget is this the guy who uploads every day or is that downward thrust?
This is downward thrust. They're the same thing. Yeah. Oh, they are the same thing. You know what? Okay
I'm sorry. My lord. I'm very sorry. My lord. You now you have blaspheme. Oh my god. I'm so sorry
Someone said slo-nold poke
They don't like to hear bad things talked about the games that they play
but
It's important to accept the critique
to make those games better
right
right
Yes, you know he he's on point here. You need to accept criticism tonaled fan art on twitter
Oh
Slo-nold versus tonaled who wins?
Oh, this this i'm gonna have to collect all these up. Okay. Well as we're going
So going on the heat train bandwagon and attacking people who work
You know, slo-nold is probably just like tonaled face on a turtle
I said it was on a slow bro or slow poke
He's just trying to keep his face from melting sunny side up. My god
Can you imagine the turtle from finding nemo but with his face photoshopped onto it?
It's gonna happen someone's doing it right now somebody just opened photoshop
They probably had photoshop open waiting for this moment. Just waiting exactly. I'm so gonna draw spider drawing the declaration of independence
One needs that to happen. Oh man, there's some actual
Thing are going on here on twitter
Sloth from zootopia get like a whole bunch of stuff
Yeah, it's weird because i've been checking notifications and i haven't had like much of anything and suddenly there's like five things i've got to show
They're fast someone drew up a slow poke totaled
Yes
I kind of I kind of want to put that on screen now. Just
Let's just do it. Please do it
You
It's quick, but it's fine
Just picture this dude with a microphone in front of me in my opinion
We will get to oh there's another one guys no no use valid attack
Yeah
Okay, we uh between the this video and the next one we'll totally have a meme break it's
Tonaled use artificial barriers of blockage
You don't know what you're talking about don't respect each other
Slownell discharging game bad words disgust me
Don't be mean that's gonna be a valid right
So going on the hate train bandwagon and attacking people who were simply critiquing a game
Negatively, even though those opinions could be valid
Is not good for anybody
I thought that he said this already like I didn't I love it
This is not good for anybody
Don't just like he's drunk
I feel like and two years down the line. We're just gonna get a tonal video called it's bad to be mean
What's cool is being nice?
It's like a musical and he just sings throughout the whole thing. I need it
Can you imagine school and then we could just slow it down?
Everyone has how many long pregnant causes do you think would be in a song from tonal lv2089?
Said mole the next cadell needs to be at half speed at some point. I'm gonna put that in my notes
Oh, wow the apportion in which I go at half speed
Some point who knows what i'll involve in it that will happen bill bonald logicans
Enions and feelings towards what they like
And what they do not like sometimes those don't match up with you
This is revolution
I'm dying
Oh my god
Do you think madia would adopt the total
Yes
No, i'm behind who's medio again
You don't know who midea is
Oh shit
Medea get myself into the the movies remember if you miss one episode
The lore goes to jail boo a medea halloween
Boo a medea halloween too
You don't know the medea series i'm afraid not
These are these are the highest of
Cultural filming like oh my god. We need to feel like I just
We need to record a medea. Uh efap movies. Oh god
I I feel like I just said I don't I don't know what the room is. Jesus christ
I'm, so sorry and then I and then earlier I said I didn't I my god
I knew who medea was when I was like 10
Oh uncultured. They do not I fucked up with our lord's name
sometimes
Those don't match up
with you
Or your best friend or someone else on the internet
It doesn't make them wrong or right. It just makes them different
Often the video that sounds like a teacher like in first grade trying to explain why you shouldn't be mean to the other kids
is
Differences make you unique and we wouldn't want that
Really insightful makes them different
often a video that is negatively critiquing a game is just because the
Person wants to get it off his chest because he has his own feelings, too
He's got
This is literally the video leave me alone
Like jeez guys now now bayowin's mad at me. I'm sorry bayowin
Sorry
Do you respect you death's bullshit, but your crimes against medea are
Sorry, uh
Medea was the it was the the the jeff and geeks and gamers episode, right?
That's all you need to watch when we first made them that dia memes and pretty sure look up Tyler Perry
You know who Tyler Perry is? Mm-hmm. Yeah, he is Medea. Oh
Huh, I swear I was there for the origin of that meme
Yeah, I don't remember the origin of the Medea meme
We need an efap scholar to be able to
He found me
And then he wants to share that with the world
The videos that do it right aren't trying to personally attack anyone
They're just trying to express the way they feel about the game
But unfortunately a lot of people out there take it personally and this is where the problem really lies
I thought we heard he's right
He's right. He is right. No one can take this away from him. It is a problem
We probably put him to normal speed. Otherwise, we'll be here forever
We're turning it into a 20 minute video question as an attack on themselves personally
Which sparks negative conversations in comment sections across the world and as soon as the first individual takes it too personally
He could spiral out of control. Sorry. Did you just say the exact same thing three times?
Yeah
I'm going back because i'm pretty sure he's just said everything
Again again and again as soon as the street fighter stuff comes up then he wants to share that with the world
The videos that do it right aren't trying to personally attack anyone
They're just trying to express the way they feel about the game
But unfortunately a lot of people out there take it personally and this is where the problem really lies
They take it personally and that's where the problem lies. Okay
They see any bad mouthing about the game in question as an attack on themselves personally
Which sparks negative conversations in comment sections across they take it personally and it spawns negative conversations
Okay, it's kind of the same thing across the world and as soon as the first individual takes it too personally
It could spiral out of control and people start attacking each other
And so people can take it personally and they spiral out of control. Yeah
I'm i'm cat literally this is how to extend your video and you just not saying anything
Just keep saying the same thing. It's slightly different. Oh, should we go at times two speed?
Oh boy make up for it. Would this be speedled?
Themselves personally which sparks negative conversations in comment sections across the world and as soon as the
Control and people start attacking each other
It's just not fun for either side because all that happens is that we vicar until we get bored and tired of it
And then we just ignore it. No constructive conversation usually happens. It's because people have a problem listening in this world
Listening is an acquired skill that takes a lot of practice and time
Okay, let's let's recap listening is in a school is an acquired skill
That takes practice over time
You need to practice how to listen
So condescending you're not listening right
Someone said gotta talk fast
Hey, oh really that's amazing. I just want to hear that again
Shit
What happens is that we vicar until we get bored and tired of it and then we just ignore it no constructive conversation
Usually happens. It's because people have a problem listening in this world listening is an acquired
A skill that takes a lot of practice and time. Oh, it's just fucking lagging for me at this point. Oh, wow
Damn you
Okay, fine. Tone all you in no more speedled
Assuming that's the problem
In the first place I find
Wait someone else pause
The world is happening
Talk and shove opinions down people's throats regardless if they are listening to the other person in the first place
Hello, I find this development of people
Was my microphone not working there?
Uh, people said that you were going to get pizza. So yeah, you had a lot. You must have a lot
I hang on. Have I how long have I not said anything for?
Uh, quite a while. Oh fuck
That's what people want. That's why people are ignoring me
Oh
I was like, oh the wire in my mic feels a bit loose. I'm just gonna push it back in and uh,
I mean just just before I just before I push it back in people going who paused and i've been talking. I was like
What the fuck?
Did you have something relevant to say jay? Did you want to make fun of this poor man? I can't remember what it was anymore
It's because people have a problem listening in this world
Listening is an acquired skill that takes a lot of practice and time and most people would rather talk talk talk
And shove opinions down people's throats regardless if they are listening to the other person. He said talk talk talk. It's narrative trip
I want to make sure you guys saw that was very skilled in town
I find this development of people attacking individuals
I mean, it's not wrong. These people definitely exist. Does that sound from his video or one of you guys?
I think that was his that was the sound his title card made
Yeah, I just want to hear that they are listening to the other person in the first place
I find this development of people attack. Oh supposed to be like a
It kind of sounds weird doesn't it's got like a very stereo vibe to it
It kind of sounds like it kind of sounds like someone's stepping on an egg from the other side of the yeah
That sounds creepy
People attacking people for disliking a game they like that is yeah
Wasn't okay. So at the start of the video, we had a title on screen that said hating on hate
And we're now four minutes further on and we've got we've changed that into hate on hate for a game
That's the progress we've made I believe isn't this the same thing though people attacking people for disliking a game they like this
No, because now it's about games
Yeah, but you're hating on the games. You're a hater and you're being hated on hating on hate
Can we hate on hate on hate?
Let's find out
Well, this is that's what this video is is hating on hate on hate
Well, he hasn't said any bad words
That is true for hating a particular game in question
Really interesting because if you flip the script and you look at the other side of the coin
It usually doesn't if you flip the script and look at the other side of the coin
The script was written in really tiny font on the
like the heads side of the quarter
You needed a third one in there. What's the third one of that?
Look at the other side
You flip the script and look at the other side of the coin
How do you naturally fit in a third version of that in that sentence?
flip the coin
Other side of the because this turn turn the other cheek
Flip a clip the script yeah turn the other cheek is one, isn't it? I thought that meant like ignoring stuff
I'm
Sure someone in the chat on the other hand. Oh, so if you flip the script if you flip the script
Wait, should I say on the no wait because if you said on the other hand if you flip the script that
That is stupid, right
We're trying to make a stupid sentence here shoe on the other foot
On the other hand. Oh, yeah, we can definitely use that. So on the other hand if you
in the tables was it
Yeah, turn the table
tables and
flip the script
Um
To look at the other side of the coin there you go. We've done it
On the other hand if you turn the tables and flip the script to look at the other side of the coin
There we go tonal we've improved your work
Happen in the same degree
For instance instead of making a video hating on a game person a made a video praising a game
Of course, there would still be people saying you're a fan boy. You're a fan boy
Say you're a
Of course there are people
That disgusts him of course there'll be people saying you're a massive that's just that's how it goes
Yeah
Definitely not as many people attacking the creator. It would be even funnier just given how casual he said
I'm so tempted to put that into gedel three
Oh, see because gedel is like totally youtube friendly and I feel like i'm not allowed to use that word anymore because you can risk
like getting banned
Like on a like on a main video, but I mean it would be so funny though. If the gedel band is like halfway through the video
that
And I could use massive, but I don't think it would be as impactful the the funny part is the impact
No
Just put it like way into the video so that you have to actually watch a lot of it to get there
I'll put massive in the notes, but I will I will um
Maybe i'll record both of them and test them when I get around to fucking april of next year
Which is a little ages away you excited for that. That's bullshit
Oh, yeah
You delved up the three it's gonna be best together
Coming to you in 11 months. Just make sure that you are disabled resable next time
Yes
And fucking store all my sources onto the ssd
Okay, okay go back to the me
Often they just feel like oh, well this guy just likes this game. Whatever
I want to hear that slow. Yeah, that just like
Oh, well this guy just likes this game
Whatever
And that is because saying something good about the product that someone does not like
Is a lot less
Provoking
It's a lot less provoking
I really thought he was gonna go into why i'm like, no
He's just saying that it annoys people more because he doesn't know why he's just like, okay
He's just saying the thing that it is
Donald just kind of forgot about the iron fleet. Yeah
Saying something bad about something that that person does like
So what ultimately happens is the second you put out a piece
Negatively critiquing a game that other people like
You're at the mercy
of the reaction of those people
Yes, and because a lot of people out there
Wait, did he just say massively? You're the mercy
Wait, did he?
It sounded like he said massively. I know that's probably not what he said. But see
the reaction of those people
And because a lot of people out there act so defensively
Really quickly
It can escalate. I would have it would have been amazing if he accidentally just said because they act massively
That's how we would know that he's actually watching our show and that he's doing this just for us
And what this does is make people cautious does about what they critique and what they do not critique
Especially on youtube and I think that's quite dangerous skin. Yeah
Yes, his point here is that if you be hatin, then people won't be as honest anymore
Don't be hating
You guys just can't take good advice when you see that's all this is
I mean it's it's it sucks to say it but be having people call you names because you say bad about a thing
They like is part of the job. But like what if they do it too many?
then
It's like I mean that
It's funny. You can think that was bad because it isn't a great isn't a great thing, but it's still like
That he spent he spent five minutes saying that now
Well, what do you think the last five minutes will be?
Because critique is really important for the development of our games
The second someone thinks twice about putting out their arguments
Even though it might be valid is the second that that criticism doesn't get heard by publishers all because
No, it's not
So so I I think this game is bad because all of the enemies are bullet sponges someone else goes you're a cunt
And then the developers go oh, I'm not gonna listen to him. He's a cunt
The developers themselves like I've heard this man is a cunt. We can't possibly trust him
Wikipedia that it says this charlie. We can't we can't do it
Why is he like giving these people so much like power in his mind like they control everything
Like I like to think he makes a video with like oh I made some really good points in that and then he goes into
The comments to see someone like fuck you. He's like, oh no
Game publishers will never understand now
It's a tragedy
They was scared about the potential backlash from some random person on the internet
So as you guys can tell I don't like this development of hating on people for hating something
I've got i've grasped that tonal. Honestly, this sounds like him
Just being like guys stop hating on me when I don't like a thing even though my opinion is completely wrong
I remember devil may cry 5 tonal need to talk about that again about barriers
Such things as the person they didn't like destiny 2 because the end game just wasn't there but hey person b
Wanted to attack that person because destiny 2 was his favorite game
Even though he knows the end game is lacking
Just because that person said one thing bad about his favorite game. It's time to why don't I just watch?
I don't not cool whatsoever. Not only are you being a bad person in general for being a bad person
Stop it you're being a bad person
Why did this man just get pulled out of a sandhole by a horse? This is assassin's creed origins. He's risen above the haters
He just wants to vacuum up all the haters
Metaphorical for this video being a bad person in general for attacking someone
Keep that rag wrapped so neatly around him while he was at the end hole
It's a plot hole for that criticism to be heard and these conversations extend far beyond destiny 2 to any game
You can possibly think of i've seen conversations about grant f dot o 5
Okay, so he's like
Any game you could possibly think of I know i've seen them like the gta 5 like whoa
Gta, whoa, like when you said any game, I didn't think you meant that one
The best-selling game of all time that's yeah, he was using well, yes, you gotta remember he made a videos
Hey
Did it fail?
Yes. Oh, that was a fucking classic that and the answer was
Pretty much mass effect andromeda you name it overwatch you can't
So he's i'm writing this one down down he lists two examples and he's like, you know what I mean
This that was three eyes to all games
Mass Effect Andromeda and gta 5 and overwatch
Hang on what was there's the way they delivered that though
Like yeah, there is a weird delivery to it
This applies to all games like this one this one and this one like all of them
Yeah, I think he gaps between two of them. Hang on. I gotta nail this grand theft auto 5
Really doesn't belong with the other two even overwatch doesn't belong with mass effect andromeda
Any game you can possibly think of i've seen conversations about grand theft auto 5 mass effect andromeda
You name it overwatch
It's like he heard himself saying you name it and he was like, oh i'm supposed to name something
He forgot that he was the person making the video he is
This will be the light of gadel this applies to all games any games you can possibly think of gta 5
Mass Effect Andromeda you name it overwatch
They were supposed to name it shit, yeah, well one take
God it's like this is what I mean about like I couldn't have written that. Thank you total. It's so good
Someone said he pronounces mass effects like a massive fact. I know that's what I was about to say
Can we rewind it? I I would hear that dramada you name it
I've seen conversations about grand theft auto 5 mass effect andromeda. You name it overwatch
How does he write? I love this gap as well. You name it overwatch
This is so awkward, I love it
You can't get away from this kind of activity perfectly valid complaints from person a
Get shot down by person b because they get defensive. How many times have you said this? This is like the seventh time
And I asked the people who do this, what do you possibly have to gain? I ask the people who do this
What do you possibly have to gain?
You kidding me
From trying to engage in these kinds of conversations you're not gaining anything
It doesn't matter if someone doesn't like my opinion
You like everyone has a different opinion
Everyone's not gonna like the game you're gonna like because of that
This is shadow of the tomb raider meaning he made this video like not even six months ago
Is hate culture a problem in the games industry? Oh my god total. I like how he's not even how long is it gonna
Take you to learn
Not even looked into like answering that question
Like with any kind of evidence or like thinking about it. He's gone. Yes. Yeah
I mean the fucking thumbnail says this has to stop
The hate people for hating the things you like on the internet
But it's not gonna get you anywhere in life
Do you make a video about how you shouldn't hate people who are talking about the hated on haters and these hate?
Please are like the efap crew hated on my hate toward haters of hate
It's like oh
I would encourage you instead to use your time and energy which is not infinite by the way to just go out and enjoy the thing
See, I think he's wrong. I think I don't think it's hate culture. That's the problem. I think it's idiots
You know, I just can't believe that he made this video in what I assume is late 2018 at least
And he's still using the term flame wars, which I haven't heard since like 2010
So did he did he just argue that you need to like go outside? Is that what he just said?
Oh, just let people enjoy what they love people are just trolls and they are quite sorry. I mean
No, he found that funny, you know
Lagging me again
I would encourage you instead to use your time and energy which is not infinite by the way to just go out and enjoy
The things you like what if the thing I like in life is telling people that they're massive. Yeah
Like what if that is what I enjoy and you're shitting on what I enjoy and ironically
Use your time and energy to make a video complaining about
Blaming
Yeah, like I think he unironically would be like well, then you are a bad person. That is what you
And you disgust me
Are completely bored with their mainstream lives and they just want something to do
What are you doing tonal
Can we listen to that we listen to that super slow
Yep, like it keeps like buffering for me. Okay, that should work
To just go out and enjoy the things you like in life
Of course though many of these
Conversations and flame wars happen because people are just trolls and they are
Completely bored with their mainstream lives and they just want something to do
What
What i'm referring to is the people who are
Legitimately upset and want to attack people for hating
We know that's what you're talking about
So is that like i'm not even trying to be hyperbolic?
Is that eight now that he's made a statement that is either that one for one or close to?
I think it must be you could super cut this video anyone could just the amount of fucking times
He's either said or shown on screen
The process of a person being mean to another person being mean to a game. I just love how he was like
mainstream
Like he just started laughing halfway through it
You're gonna have to uh put that in you know, someone brings up a good question in the chat. What the hell is a mainstream life?
What does that mean?
I want to see detective pikachu. Oh, that's pretty fucking mainstream life. Are you man?
Why would you want to see detective pikachu?
That was just an example
I I don't like it change it
You haven't seen it yet. I know don't knock it till you've tried it. What are you in a mainstream life right now?
I mean
that bored
Hmm, what would we do with that and that is a total I mean we don't we wouldn't have this podcast without tonaled
Yeah, there's the the first video covered I believe or at least I can't remember if it was that we we did cover him
For second then we went straight to jarred and then we came back to tonals, but tonal did definitely inspire the uh,
It was totaled and jared that made this podcast the yin and the yang
The the lord the yang unfortunately he went crazy and had to be
Shut down. So now we just have the yin and we'll see your replacement. Yeah
Completely different story, you know, um without turning this into a dr. Phil i'm 33
Oh, I didn't know that with I didn't either I thought he was like in his mid to late 20s
Is it is it commonly accepted to refer to like I don't want to turn this into a dr. Phil rather than a dr. Phil episode or whatever
I don't want to turn this into a dr. Phil. That's what I mean
That's what that struck me as odd, but I don't know if that's how you guys say that in america
You know, um without turning this into a dr. Phil i'm 33 years old and i've learned a few things in life number one is to
Be nice to the people who are around you though be true to yourself
You gotta be a good soul in life
Accept the fact that people out there are different from you that doesn't make them good and it does not make them bad
It just makes them different. Like I said earlier people going out of their way to bad mouth people for saying bad stuff about games
No way he said it again
I would count that last thing as him saying again. Just like i've learned not to say bad. All right, because people are different
I'm not even kidding. Uh, anybody out there wants to super cut it
I'll totally will totally watch the shit out of that on the next efamp or whatever
Well the end of the day you guys be good. Don't be bad
Bad is bad. Good is better
We're doing more harm than good and they don't even know it
Not only are you cheapening yourself out on the most fundamentally vital and important thing about life
Which is being a good person to those around you
You're also creating an environment that scares off people from making valid critique about games that may need to improve in the first place
With that said though not every critique of a game and not every video out there hating on a game is done
Right, and I will definitely agree with you with that many of these videos out. All right
That's the he's progressing the argument
Everyone has everyone has their opinion and that's fine
But some games may need improvement because of these true critiques
He spent eight minutes telling us that you should stop hating on people who are hating on a game because they got valid criticisms
and he finally said
Sometimes they don't though
Be like, oh
Okay, no total to maybe 33 but he's got the mind of a five-year-old that is true
Out there just want to get some clicks
They want to hate just because it's the popular thing to do you can often pick these videos out
I know he's he can tell it's just a popular thing to do
They just badmouth the game without saying anything good about it
They literally make fun of the gaming question, which is not the way you're supposed to do it
What if the game is terrible like right then how rich should be supposed to not make fun of the game what?
You're not supposed to make fun of games
That's what the rules say. That's the rule book of the critic. Yeah
It's duh rules from uh fairly odd parents. Yeah, just on the first pages. You are not allowed to make fun of games
You're supposed to say what's wrong
Can that be under the uh offer the declaration that you're allowed to like the last jedi?
That's not make fun of that
You know the line which says you know the the love the protect the things you love and don't make fun
Just critique it don't make fun of it
Don't have obi-wan turning off the movie. Okay, that's a that's a mean joke. You're supposed to take it seriously
in
These critics these days man
They literally make fun of the gaming question, which is not the way you're supposed to do it
You're supposed to say what's wrong with the game and then offer a solution
Why why can't we make fun of it those why can't we make fun of something that's terrible tonal tonal teach us
We need the the message is incomplete
Taking a game requires one to look critically at the subject material not just to insult a game into the ground for the hell of it
Those videos suck and they definitely deserve to be ignored
Fuck this video suck are you just hating on someone hating?
Uh, he said a bad word he said suck. Oh boy
He needs to be put down. You know, he's mad now
Unacceptable do it right and offer negative criticism in the proper light
Should not be realized that if jared and total never existed then we would have had like so much
We would have had to find so many different people to
To watch this is the thing. I want total to be successful at this point
I want him to get so far of his own ass that he just makes the insane-est of videos
I've invented a word for an insane-est
For negative criticism in the same that it's okay to just attack people if they make fun of games now, is that his point?
Was it let's roll it back the whole thing
I want to I want to know if that's what he's saying object material not just to insult a game into the ground for the hell
Of it those videos suck and they definitely deserve to be ignored. But the ones that do it right enough
But he said they suck it's like so you're hating on this person's work that seems you shouldn't you should critique them
Yeah, you should say what's wrong first
You sound very bullying total. Mm-hmm. I'm disappointed you in law or tonal. This is not a good
Then a good example
Don't stray tonaled
Who decides the difference between making fun of something and providing critique?
Yes, like if you say a total deals in absolutes
Only a slow note would do that total totals a different man
Oh, if you say like oh the hitboxes are
Are not accurate to the models and then you say it would be better if they were that's fine
But if you say oh the hitboxes aren't accurate to the models, that's fucking dumb. You're making fun of the game
So making fun of it leave alone
Mr. Gently benevolent said total doesn't want to get too big more than he wants to keep it real to the mainstream life
Total deletes his channel whenever he hits 1 million subscribers. He can't take it easy. He's about the little guy. Okay
He doesn't want to get involved in the big stuff
Is them in the proper light
Should not be attacked by people on the internet
If you don't like what those videos are saying then simply downvote the video and comments down below
Wow, if you don't like it downvoted, okay, that's worse. That sounds like a call to action to me
Tonald what are you doing man calling into violence almost
Tonald has definitely evolved as a critic
If you don't like what those videos are saying then simply downvote the video and comment down below
Respectfully to encourage some constructive critique. I would encourage you guys
It's like this is an instruction for all the people that don't like him. We'll have the fires back help
You're fire culture of hating people for saying negative stuff about video games critique comes in all flavor
Why was the fire there that he went right back?
I thought I was waiting for like a subtitle. He just put fire there and went back
He he look this is
Dude alia
alia when he said
Got to do something with it alia when he said any games you can possibly think of gta5
Massage drama you name it overwatch. This is the visual annotating vision of that. He was like, oh fuck overwatch put it back
I like that fire. You just need to cut to some fire stock footage halfway through the video. Oh, yes. I'm putting a note for
maybe that was uh
Someone said maybe that's um a visual representation of the flame wars
I still can't believe he says that I don't get why he seems to flame wars. Jesus christ
I don't get what he seems to like think it's specific to video game criticism because that's how he phrased it the whole time as
I feel like it doesn't think this issue has any more scope than
I mean, that's the thing. It's like total. This is just people being dicks. Yeah
No, it is video game industry
The games industry has a hate culture no people it just means sometimes tonaled
Both the video and comment down below respectfully to encourage some constructive critique
I would encourage you guys not to be a part of this growing in weird culture of hating fires back for saying
Yeah, the fire represents the hate critique comes in all flavors and just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad
Wait, what?
Wait, what?
I know what he means. I don't I know what he means, but he why did he phrase it that way?
Can you can you play it at point five? I can't
Yeah
This growing in weird culture of hating people for saying negative stuff about video games
Critique comes in all flavors and just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad
Sometimes it's incredibly vital to the lessons
See like i'm gonna put that in my video and someone's gonna be like no one's stupid enough to say that it's like no
You haven't been watching just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad
Why did he phrase it that way
Old games are not new games
like god
You're amazing total what would we do with flavors?
And just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad
Sometimes it's incredibly vital. What's the full quote with that? Like old games are not new games
Even in the same age when you played them
This man is a treasure
We we told act man that quote the other day and there was like a couple seconds of silence and then it was like
Praise loke
Tonal never stopped the lessons learned never change this industry to a better place
We need to grow this industry to a better place
What only you tonaled can make it happen never stop my friend only you can stop tonaled fires
Like a certain points because i'm writing so much of his script into a notepad. I may as well just take the whole thing
Is down the whole thing may as well just like copy the script for this entire video and that's your goudelp
People like upload this for goudelp people like you went too far with this one. Well, this one just doesn't make sense
So, I think I kind of got my point across and I think
If you guys enjoyed this style of video, which is definitely not my normal style of video
It's kind of more of a general commentary style video. Let me know down
If you like this style of video, which is not my digital style video or a comedy style video
I actually see I want to write that down too
Only tonaled can prevent flame wars
Oh fuck this has a lot of dislikes
Oh it does
Hold quite a lot. Yeah, this has a thousand likes and 500 dislikes. That's not great
Ooh, ow, I didn't even notice that what the top comment is. Oh the irony
The one underneath that is press x to doubt title
Yeah, so basically downward thrust is person c and person a at the same time mind blown
If you didn't like this video downvote him respectfully
Comment we all know that this video is talking about the backlash you and clean prince gaming are getting by every video
Problem is not the critique itself tone
Totaled we gotta get total
The main problem is spreading misinformation and talking about
Speculations as fact is at least you had the courage to address your mistakes regarding games like warframe
On the other side your fellow youtuber clean prince gaming still spreads information in his videos and let's take this video
About spider-man downgrade as in take his video about the spider-man downgrade as an example
Oh, this guy gets it. You said you did us at the same thing nine times
Um
Someone make that super good
Just want to make sure you guys like them as well
As always i'm trying to diversify my content and see what works and what doesn't
Generally speaking. I do discussion style videos on this channel regarding
Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. This comment literally says look at that like to dislike ratio
Did you even listen to the video people he tells you to dislike it? Yeah, he tells the orders
He gave us we what can we do lord total this book disagree dislike
One of the most amazing. I'm sorry
Some it's it's an amazing skill to like have to to take the message. Don't be mean be nice and turn it into something that's wrong
Like he's literally like it's not a hate it's not a it's not hate culture in the games industry
This isn't no stop it
It's it's literally just people a dick sometimes also sometimes you have bad takes
How dare you listen to the video the news thing recently too
So let me know once again what you guys would prefer me to focus on so I can steer my content in the right direction
He tries to do that as always content, too
I think he talks about trump in the white house and all that
I think he's keen. I hope so is i'm gonna make the content that I want to make
Regardless, so I hope you guys enjoy some of it
You're probably not gonna like all of this
But I appreciate you guys for sticking around and continuing to support this channel because i've got some really cool stuff planned in the future
You guys have a fantastic day. And as I say always peace, love and happiness until our next video. Take care
Did he always say that yes, actually it's really insufferable
In a good way. Um, i'm going to okay. So this is the newest video from tonald. Uh
It's called dragon age full problem that many are considered. Uh, just sort comments by new find mine enough photo. Okay
Gotta wow gotta bring more gotta bring no, I don't care about that. I just want the message itself
Praise tonald lead the toxic brood to glory
Wait, which um, which video i'll put it in the discord chat
You know be nothing but nice to this man. We need more of his videos
To teach us more lessons. Okay comments on the one that you put in the chat because I can't see a comment from you on this
Uh salt by newest does it not come up?
Oh
Rude to glory
I want to see a tonal top comment with that has nothing to do with us. Like it manages to take off
I want him to start calling himself
Can you imagine like i'm ironically
Like can you imagine how awesome it would be if you could type in tonaled into the youtube search engine and it would come up with him
Like I do that like after every single show we cover him on
Hoping hoping for the day that it happens or it becomes like the first search results that comes in suggested on google when you start typing
Ton and oh my god, let me look up google i'm gonna type in
Tonaled look
Oh, no, it just comes up with ron lock
Oh, no, you have to you have to press search instead for because it thinks you're typing in ronald
Oh, wait, wait, I just need to put quotations around it then it only looks up that
No, no that didn't work
I'm feeling lucky tonaled
I'm feeling lucky
Which channel is tonaled look it's on reddit what
What yeah, it's on armaller
All that makes sense
So many tonaled memes on twitter
I gotta collect them
I wonder if it works on elgug
So
Tonaled look
Oh
No, doesn't do much of anything now, does it we'll get there one day guys tonaled will embrace the brood
He will become one with the toxic brood
What would what would we talk about with him?
Just just get him to say words. Yeah, I literally
I would love to interview him
I'll be like so tonaled. Can I call you tonaled and he'd be like what the fuck?
Do you think like just in casual conversation
We'd mention like gears of war and he'd be like, oh, yeah the game with art
Game with what you cut out the game with artificial barriers of block
We could only fucking wish he was it was that good
What did he say with the t at the end again, I mean you gotta you gotta remember this is cool
This is scripted
I wonder what he's like unscripted
Has he got any unscripted content if he's unscripted he speaks like slonal regularly time to run through some memes we go
Are you all righty?
I believe this is hot off the presses the
Alley
Captain val
Valad
Other um, I get this is slow
Slow poke and slow king, right? I is that my pokemon is my pokemon, right? Why is this ass being eaten by wolf?
well
I mean wolf you could feel that I don't know I don't know
Oh, that's just fire his eyes. Oh, oh right because I told that I said slow hold is like with his eyes looking at different directions
So we got a bail in one two damn it I got it yeah
Oh
There's so many fucking tabs right now, it's uh
Uh
Because like I like to keep them so I can put them all back into the fucking meme section on my discord so people don't miss out
One sec
Where where do people get it like pictures of his face from because i've never seen
That's actually a great question
They're in his thumbnails
There was well, there was that one that we that he took down but he downloaded and he was like
Rashing the controller and then we got some dbz memes out of that
Why oh, yeah the uh, the dmc5
Yeah, why would he put pictures of his face in the thumbnail if his face isn't in the video?
Like he was just gonna get me like who was that dude?
That's the all going question
Game of tones
I
Love how the hair just looks like a horrible way
Finding neato artificial barriers of block
Uh, I love how reg is just above the end
Yeah, it's just a random little thing
He's neemo, isn't he?
So many slow notes
In my
Uh, as soon as I saw the art I just my brain filled in the exact quote with the accent from the dude
Look the script look to the other side of the coin
But people have been busy while we've been doing oh, yes all sorts of memes
I
It's perfect it's the same one but different I love it still
It's like a different total face
Where do they find these
Yeah, that one's really clear. Yeah, this one was what I was like staring at on twitter for a while
It's just like what is what this is wonderful
What is happening here wait am I h2o stainless steel wet reg is water
I think the whole is it like a whole study of what makes oh my god
I don't remember exactly where this is from but I remember stainless steel thing
Well, i'm trying to figure out if water is wet. I think that's the point. Yeah
We've got like a drowned dude in a container
And then someone's trying to throw a bucket of like water or wolf I think in the background
And then you've got solid gas in the bag liquid and then a question mark for the fourth state
Great and then there's rhino milk or is that it looks like a butterfly drawn on there
Butterfly milk in that case, I guess
butterfly milk
Yeah, we've had that meme
I guess it's ice. I'm looking at it. All right
Where did they get the total face why
total faces
Oh, yeah, this is like a god imagine the untapped amount of videos with tonaled faces that we haven't seen
Yeah, these guys have found so many more. Oh my god
All dialogue from vamp blade season three episode 12. Oh god. I need to like zoom this one in
open link
The last what is that jedi totally sucks the hell you say
Like all the old faces of it. I know I just if there's one thing I could tell you about the future
Don't waste your time being excited about that. Oh, I remember this
I mean if ryan johnson is the one directing it here. Yeah. Well, then you're fucked you lie
I've been wrong about a lot of things here. I've tried to help you
You've what is that? You've been through enough. It's just objectively terrible
That was to take some time to together all the faces right
Yeah, and all the like the font fits in perfectly. It looks like it's part of the comic like
Very much a truth. So, uh this one the guy said if I
Relaxed
I don't I don't get it
This is an early concept sketch of waltz character for a short film. I'm in the process of making I should have rags and you done
Any questions about it, please ask
Short film like
What format
And shall the main villain be tonaled
Or will he be god no he's god because he was birthed from the cosmic chicken
He created the universe
No, no, no, no, no, you're getting the lore the cosmic
in the beginning
Excuse you was the cosmic chicken fred. He birthed the cosmic
egg which birthed tonaled who created the universe and
The adding all men are endowed by their creator with the unalienable right to like the last jedi
Yet, no man is permitted to make fun
Making a list here and then you have a brand new bayou in peace. Oh, boy
Can't wait
Wow
You could learn a lot from the things you learn just because it's bad
Okay
You know what hang on you know wolf no it's my turn no, oh you're gonna do it it's my turn
Okay, I knew what you were doing and I had to do it first at the end of this we're all just gonna be bayouin pictures
And that's the last one before we can fucking get back to actual video
Memes are on top quality again today folks. Oh my god bayouin draws really good fat people
Um
This is uh, so
The idea behind this one
Is the yachtsi made a video
In which he was describing like is this a meme or well? Yes. Uh, so he made a video where he was predicting
Something for episode nine or what's going to happen with it, I guess and so someone's like superimposed
Bases from efap on top of his description now
The only thing about this video is I don't know if this counts as like copyright or not because it's yachtsi
I don't know if I have to do a lot of pausing
uh
Honestly, I have no idea because I would have thought he's been around for like a decade like surely he has like protections on
His work by now
But I guess we'll just have to treat it as like a um
a movie one
An industry that never learned
Special moments in filmmaking history
Don't tell me that those dastardly unpleasable fanboys who ruin diablo immortals big day in the spotlight have struck again
How dare those horrible nerds make such spoiled entitled
Do I feel like it's gonna ruin it because I have to keep pausing it and he's like he talks really fast
We're gonna damage the jokes. But yeah
Make such spoiled entitled demands for reasonably priced franchise installments targeted at the people who made that franchise popular in the first place
I want you to honor this. Hey, there's no you in honor in this. So that means it's an american honor and I hate that
I love your picture right now
It's just bullying really isn't it if only these dissatisfied consumers with very little actual i'm drunk lost and forgot what we're protesting about
Rooting things for look it's the whole cat. I've got gray sheep in
Yeah
All power and influence would stop bullying the poor innocent massively wealthy corporations and leave them in pace to hack out inferior
garbage designed to siphon money for
Lloyd what positive emotions remain unstrangled out of existence? Yeah push that narrative disney rework for the ghostbusters reboot
desire
is irrelevant
Massive long man bad allows people to like the last jedi that is the most important accolade a kind god
I am
a machine
Doesn't make fun of games to that
English teachers teach your good doggo bark divers
Turn to page
392 for egg
Obviously the environment down here is all salty
Little citrus pulley forced in person to an extent the air is soft
And you breathe that in and you can constantly taste the salt
Yeah, and that that leads us right into the finale video the truth behind the next video game crash
The truth the truth and as far as i'm aware, I will look out for it
But i'm pretty sure he stole something from ahoy in this video
Oh
That'll be interesting about ahoy. So that'll be funny. Yeah me neither
While i've watched every video from him because he's like one of if not the best fucking creator on youtube
I wouldn't say that
What would I know
The randomly dandily doodly boo, but you know, it's pretty good. It's pretty good stuff
I feel like awkward. I'm like should I promote him and i'm like why he's like got a billion subscribers
Anyway, let us uh
See about this
The thumbnail is is gaming about to crash this in red
Is he no way is he using that?
That graph that he always uses too. No, actually, I haven't seen that lately
Is he does he save it for did it fail alone or is he I think he's yeah
I think that's mostly what it is. That's um, how I found his channel, by the way
I unironically looked at the thumbnail and thought oh, that's did that really happen?
Like was it that bad that it actually like got negative sales? I was like, let's check it out
I'm just glad that like we met each other and not only
Them to be old school drunken peasants fans, but we also happen to both hate tonal
Hate him i'm afraid. Well, we we used to but then we we listened to him more and now we can just
Now we know we've heard the word of tonaled and we've been exposed to the truth
He's a great youtuber. Also by negative sales
I'm almost referring to like what happened with uh, no man's sky where like there was like mass refunds
um
And I was assuming that that's what the deal was. But yeah, he just uses that in his thumbnail because he's uh, he's a massive
I mean a a worthy massive
Great video game crash of 1983 taught us an incredibly important lesson in the gaming industry
That the wheels of a working economy they need to keep turning
So
You
I wasn't ready yet total
You can't let me get into the zone my god, that was like that jared video
Responding to rags and that two seconds in we just lost our minds
One thing i've learned about people is we need to eat before we die. Oh my god is he's one upping himself
Razorback's a peak total to the fifth
Sick
Uh 0.5 great video game crash of 1983
Tom has an incredibly important lesson in the gaming industry
That the wheels of a working economy
They need to keep turning
I was
Germany
He's like he fell asleep
The wheels of a working economy they need to keep spinning
Born a few years after the crash, but my dad was able to see the fall of it
My dad
My little dad I picture him looking exactly the same but he has like a great wizard beard
But of course he's got like a little patch where there is
It caused the collapse in bankruptcy of many publishers and it put a lot of people out of the job
Uh
Yeah, I think that would be a natural progression
My dad what do you suppose his dad's name is total cedia
So
Unironically said donald
Oh
Being one of my dad's friends
They led to monopolistic style competition
competition
From those that survived it and it wreaked havoc to the economy. That was left in its wake
It took a long time
for it to recover
There's a lot of reasons for why it happened
That's a lot of reasons for why it happened
But I need to go ask my dad
I do here
Including the games market is becoming flooded with low quality games that lacked quality control
low quality games the lacked quality control
Wait go back did he did he say quality control or low quality control recover
There's a lot of reasons for why it happened including the games market is becoming flooded with low quality games that lacked quality control
Low quality games that lacked quality control that's amazing
Quality games that lacked quality control
There was also just too many games especially from new and often unregulated third-party vendors
And the rapid shift in popularity towards the home computer market
Last year we had a wild year in gaming that had some worrisome indicators that many people are saying
Might cause the next crash. I'd like to evaluate those today
All right, you guys ready for this? Let's do it. I'm strapped in
Someone said daddled versus pro jared. Oh my god
Number one is a lack of overall innovation. Is that true?
Is that true
That's not a there's a lack of innovation concept is that true
I'm gonna check with my dad. Oh my god, that sounds like a dude at like a press briefing like he's just talking
Yeah, there's this man. He's like lack of innovation and someone else is like is that true?
Number one is a lack of overall innovation. Is that true?
Well, there's a lot of stagnation in the gaming market and many games retread the same turf
But there's also been a pretty good amount of creativity on display too in the last few years
So I wouldn't go so far to say that the games industry is without innovation. Either way though
It's a pretty subjective criteria. No matter how you look at it. Elaine you're subjecting really. Oh, all right
That was pointless
No defense on you next I like yeah, it's just like this this thing well, maybe maybe not
You can't answer that
Okay
The reason for the downturn in creativity I would say is probably due to a variety of factors including what you just
Why is okay? So he's now like we don't know the reason that it is like that
I
Went yeah, kind of no, not really you can't answer it. But the reason it is
The rising cost of video game developments and wages to those people who make them
An increased reliance on shielding risk to protect against substitutery games offered at discount substitutors
Substitutory games, is that a real word?
Look it up
Substitutory
subsidiary
Substitutory locomotion apparently that is a thing
substitutory
Really a word that sounds better. He could barely pronounce half the
Um
I'm I mean i'm not getting
The results i'm looking for I don't think so i'm not getting
I got
Results, but they're not definitions. I mean either way it's going in right
Uh, well if it's a real word, it's less funny
It doesn't i'm not it's not coming up on dictionary calm
Oh dictionary even put stuff in that isn't real words. So
Not to mention it keeps trying to correct me whenever i'm trying to do it. Did you mean substitution?
So just to clarify you guys spelling it. Um
They're substitutionary
Uh
Substitutory i've seen substitution all
It's not real, right
It keeps trying to say it's substitutionary
Donald you did make that up, right
Someone said tonals
Increased reliance on shielding risk to protect against substitutory games offered at dis substitutory
Shielding what risk what risk is being shielded?
Well, let's let's roll it back
Clearly, you're not you haven't learned to listen. Jay. He mentioned this in the previous video
Matter how you look at it
The reason for the downturn in creativity
I would say is probably due to a variety of factors including the rising cost of video game developments and wages to those people who make
Them an increased reliance on shielding risk to protect against substitutory games
Uh, okay, you know i'm confused now you literally jay
I wasn't listening to him
And it made sense and then I listened to him and you you ruined it by making me listen to him
You've not acquired the skill of listen by listening. It's ruined everything. I need to write it out
Creativity I would let's let's see your point five this shit. We need everybody on maximum alert to figure to decipher the tonal
Probably due to a variety so far stagnation of innovation. Is that true? We don't know. Here's why it's true
Is that are we getting that right?
Yes
Okay, good. And then the limiting risk
To what what what risks are you limiting?
Well, that's I thought we have to listen to the whole statement to make sure we're grasping this as as intended by the great loke
The reason for the downturn in creativity I would say is probably due to a variety of factors
Including the rising cost of video game development and wages to those people who make them
an increased reliance on shielding risk to protect against
substitutory games offered that day i'm sorry you've lost the whole thing is just to get old
This is what I mean. I'm writing it out. Like this is just kiddalb
Those people who make them
an increased reliance on shielding risk to protect against
substitutory games offered at
Discounted price. I can't write fake words that fast
Is that notepad like just from this session? It's just tonaled quotes. Oh my god
Realize you can just watch a total video
I mean the whole his whole channel is like a parody, but he's
He's completely unaware of it
He's so stupid
Make them
an increased reliance
on shielding risk to protect against
Substitutory games offered at discounted price points. That's a
Really really big in today's market
What did you just say? That's a really really big in today's market?
Please no, that's not what you just said, right?
It's a really really massive and
shielding risk to protect against
Substitutory games offered at discounted price points. That's a
Really big in today's market
An increased competition from the so yeah, really
Please tell me i'm not crazy here. Did he really just say
Offer the discounted prices. That's a really really big in today's market
Did he say that am I crazy?
I'm just trying to get really big in today's market. I gotta rewind it a little bit more
All right. Sorry. I'm just asking you guys to protect against
Substitutory games offered at discounted price points. That's a really really big in today's market
It's a really really big
That's a really really big
What
That's how me and jade talk to each other
He obviously meant to say that's really really big but he said that's a really really big
I think it was like that's uh, really really big. Let's listen to it in normal speed. See if that's how it sounds
I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt here reliance on shielding risk to protect against
Substitutory games offered at discounted price points. That's a really really big in today's
That's a really really big it sounds like he's saying that's a really really big
Don't trim left trim right delete that's all you had to do man
I think he's saying that's really really big. It just sounds like
Like
Whether intentional or not I adore it
Yes, these markets an increased competition from the free-to-play in mobile gaming markets the other big giant in the room
This increased competition has escalated
Every tonal to substitute
Risk companies now face when trying to develop a new video game as they're now competing with lots of different games at lots of different
Price points thus they often fall back on what already works which is allowing them to stay in the market. What's game is
I don't know
That they they stay on with what works to remain in the market
That this happened
But it's probably a side effect of a growing economy that is figuring out ways to compete with high price video games that have dominated
Market for such a long time duty
Number two is the reliance on recycled video game content and material by way of increasing technology
The first one was the one where he said it and then he went is it though that sort of shit
There's somewhat limited games or whatever. Oh, hey, I've played this game
That's the thing that I don't get to say bio shock. It's great
video game content and material by way of increasing technology such as
All the remasters remakes and special editions that are coming up all the time in today's economy. He says
Damn
Tonal you went off the script my ears. What a massive dude. I'm disgusted
I think he doesn't know what he's talking about
Damn game in an updated format does yield the video game maker a sudden explosion in revenue yet
It can fatigue does yield the video game maker a sudden explosion in revenue
What a way to say that like there's nothing wrong with that. It's just
The way that he said that it's just this beautiful is the way that I don't know that's just that's a lot of the things
he says though
It's like there's nothing wrong with it technically but
Strange choices
In about a year ago. Number three is the domination of the yearly release franchise
Which may actually add to the sensation of lethargy. That's often where
The lethargy I don't i'm pretty sure that is a word. I have I've almost said that's a word
Yeah, it is a word, but it's pronounced lethargy. I'm pretty sure
I mean, it's lethargic, but
Generally, it's lethargy is i've heard it. Anyway, honestly, I don't think i've ever heard someone use it. I just knew it existed
Yeah, i've heard lethargic more than i've heard lethargy
right
I I like the tonal used it
He's teaching this about when he used a real word at least it's going in
The pronunciation robot says lethargy
Uh-huh. Ah, I was right
I want to hear apparently someone said he missy
What says lethargy like it puts equal emphasis on both syllables
Of the three number three is the domination of the yearly release franchise
Which may actually add to the sensation of lethargy that often wears down gamers who want fresh new content
Not the same stuff every year number four is the commercialization and sometimes exploitation of subsidiary video game income streams
Such as dlc cut content season. Sorry, this is pretty like this is a lot of information tonal
That was a mouthful right there even i'm like you might even be right here. I'm just not following fest
Time for slowneld, I guess
Passes microtransactions and inflated pre-order bonus versions
The main argument here is that gamers are paying today for content that they used to get for
Do you how do you even comment on it? I thought the empire only hired male stormtroopers. I just thought that's what they did
Anymore it's 2019
But they're space nazis
You're being a space nazi by saying this like look it's sexist to not allow women in the space
Yes
Microtransactions and inflated pre-order bonus versions
The main argument here is that gamers are paying today for content that they used to get for free before this revolution took a foothold
In the industry
Unfortunately, there's no way to quantify the statement or any metric that evaluates the amount of content
Yeah, you can
Just have to look at games that you used to unlock shit and now games the charge for it
Yeah
And then worse they like uh
They take the brain out of the game and hold it in a central server and then kill the brain when they're done with it
And destroy the whole game
Oh, I love it when that happens. You could have proven this tonal
Did you research not for being games over time relative to their cost?
Well, it does seem that so many games have so many windows for so many consumers to pay so much for extra content
And that some games do release and complete we can't really draw a line in the sand that says this
Specific piece of content should have been in the game in the first place or it should have been additional. Why not?
Depends on the context context you just said we can't do it
That's that's one of the rules
You can't make fun of video games. You can't decide what should have been in a game
Like the end of the storyline if it's in dlc, I would argue that
Does that ever happened uh
Wasn't that what people said about mass effect? Uh three the the dlc like fixes the ending or makes it better
The extended edition ending it helps it doesn't fix everything though
Yeah, because of what they had promised early on they said oh everybody's endings are going to be radically different
radically different and then
Apparently like the I don't know how true it is
But I heard that like the endings got leaked and then they decided to change them after the leak
Um, I don't know if that's accurate though
Like I know there was a big indoctrination theory thing going on which like, you know it
You know a lot of it did make sense, but
I don't think that was really like a leak. I think that was just a community
Although in fairness the extended edition ending for massive three was free
Yeah, so it was kind of hard to complain. I hope people say no zura's wrath
They don't played that
I haven't played it. No, i'd only seen a lot of references to it. Well
No, tonal made a point. I disagreed with it. We have references. It's like we're actually responding to a video now
Hey, someone said spiro reignited only at the first game actually on the disc
Yeah, but you didn't have to pay for the other two if you got the full thing then you get the full thing
You just got to download the other two
For sure that's what kind of be more subjective and you can't really measure or quantify subjective
You can't really measure or quantify this is like someone poked him while he was recording he's like
He's falling asleep, he's got a guy with a little stick just jabbing him in the ribs quantify
valid
Low number should have been additional
for sure
That's would kind of be more subjective and you can't really measure or
Quantify
Objective
It's an interesting argument, but you just can't number five is the far right then public share price
He said it like three times as well you can't do it you can't do it you just can't do it
Someone asked uh, wasn't the true ending of shadow?
Technically
Because you had to do this obnoxious grind which luckily has been taken out of the game
Which just proves the point that it was a grind
um
That was like 15 to 20 hours long to get the actual ending
So you could play through all of it and not pay for anything
But the game really heavily implied that you should spend money on microtransactions to get better orcs
Because if you don't have good enough orcs
Then they're all going to die and you're going to lose your fortress and then it's going to take even longer to do it
so not technically
But they really did try to push people to do it so that they could get through the grind faster
Still no less shitty though
And I called that out and I I called out the people who defended it
Because you would not believe how many people defend that shit. I've um, i've copied semantic dragons vote for gedel
Just can't it can't be done
Is it true
Operations during 2018 namely ea, ubisoft, activision blizzard, ten cents, nintendo, sony and take two among others
I would definitely agree that the decline in perceived value in these institutions is a huge factor
however
The decline in perceived value in these institutions. I just
Like at this point i'd be checked out like i'd be playing a game while listening to this and being like what is this?
Yeah, okay. He's right
Share price is only one indicator when measuring the performance of a company
You actually have to do more digging than that and look at stuff like the current ratio
Netting gross profit margins. What?
Can you meet the financial obligations that's what that means
Oh net gross and profit how healthy is the company that means
Profitable it is earnings per share measures profitability
But I thought we just had the profit one cash. How liquid is the company?
Is the company wet?
That is the question
Actual earnings per share which is not the same as its stock price as well as various kpis for cash
To just you know, see if they actually have the ability to survive this impending stock market crash that
impending
ability
People are saying in the first place
Most of this stuff is unnecessarily technical for the purposes of this video
But what i'm trying to say is you have to look at more than just the stock price of a company to see how well
A company is actually doing stock. I think that's a fair point
Say that
Can we make more of those?
Someone said we need to syringe our deliverables so we can do synergy
When you're looking at whether or not a company is
valid
but more than stock
I think that's me. I think I could rest
Stock prices can be incredibly volatile monsters and they can swing around like a pendulum as proven in the past by these companies previously referenced
That's more totaled I like that
As proven by these companies I referenced
Okay, this should be goodwill
And lastly the general goodwill of the industry. Yes, it's absolutely true
There's a lot of confusion right now and hostility among the top game makers right now from loyal fans. What's going on?
Why are they doing this common questions this back?
I'm writing that out. Do you think he just wrote common question like in his yeah, like he was supposed to ask
It's like the same thing with like the overwatch thing
I need I need to see the slow-mo. I need to copy that was just pure great tonal history. Yes. It's
Absolutely true. There's a lot of confusion right now and hostility
among
The top game makers right now from loyal fans
What's going on? Why are they doing this common questions?
What's going on, why are they doing this common questions?
Why common questions how ask me anything?
I honestly think you just couldn't think of a third sort fuck it
To consider that while much of the drama that causes ill will in the industry is started by those companies towering over us
It's for the most part
Someone in the chat said tonal scripts sound like they were procedurally generated
I really would have tried that now like take a script to put them into a procedural generator and see what it comes up with
Like take one those bots like you see the posts where people are like I put uh,
I made uh my computer read harry potter and then it made it yeah
You can you can get those you can use them. I want to actually transcribe a tonaled video and put it into one of them
Oh my god, do you think it would actually be like
You get like five of his videos and shove them all into the same thing jumble them up and then create a script out of it
Like that could be amazing. Oh my god
Could we do that?
Actually amplified or skewed by the media often it's not as bad as it seems because it just gets blown way out of proportion
But still it's clear
There's a few missing pieces that this list of arguments do not touch on at all
And those are the state of the overall video game economy beyond what people consider their tastes
And the clear divide between the common gaming audience and the hardcore gaming community the latter often being the minority
Voice, even though it may be the loudest
The global video game economy is worth somewhere
I was about to say is that supposed to represent like
Throwing around minorities
Mola isn't jumbling together. Uh bowler isn't jumbling together five of his videos. Just gedel
Yes
80 and 140 billion dollars
Voice even though it may be the loudest
Right, so he's saying that the the hardcore game is the minority voice
even though they may be the loudest loudest so they don't represent like the the industry is a
As much as like you would hear them
But they're also the people who spend the most money on games so they have more power than
As is that proven?
Like if they're spending more money, then they're gonna be more likely to cause a crash if they stop playing games than more casual people
Right
I mean, I would imagine hardcore gamers quote unquote would be buying more games. Yeah, so
so
They're the loudest voices, but also the highest payers
thing
Wait dollars from 2011 to 2020
it's
Is that the projected amount?
Oh, you got this graph from the future
You got this
Fighters with their oracle
Because this video isn't new. So
When did he actually bring this out?
To bring this graph even if it wasn't new 2020 hasn't happened. Well, that's what I mean
How dub is january 2nd? He put this out
I'm assuming that must be a projected graph from 2016 onwards. They all have little stars next to them
So i'm assuming this was made in 2015
Uh
And I guessing from half of the graph is just an assumption
Okay
What's every what's the real number?
Yeah subjective doesn't matter global video game economy is worth somewhere between 80 and 140 billion dollars this year
Depending on where you look and is growing stars
Somewhere between 80 and 140 this year and this year i'm assuming is
2016 because that's where those dots started. No, no, there's now it goes up to 2017 on this one
I think he posted this in 2018
Okay, he didn't even get the 2018 data this year that was this year it was january this year
Whatever this is all just wrong just it's just graphs. This is the meme about video essays where they just put graphs up
Those graphs they know they're talking about
No matter
Where you look there's never been a more popular time to be a gamer in a world more socially accepted
It's a weird clip choice there totaled
He just slams shit together. He doesn't really think about how it relates to what he's saying
Oh as i'm talking about the games industry
Sex robots and glass tubes
Alena said how the hell is the global market subjective with it depends on the year you look did he actually say that?
Wait, what? I don't think he said that
It was subjective list of arguments. I don't think you don't think that's where you look at all
And those are the state of the overall video game economy beyond what people consider their tastes and the clear divide between
Those are the states of the overall
economy of
Those i'm sorry
Between the common gaming audience and the hardcore gaming community the latter often being the minority voice
Even though it may be the loudest throwing around a woman. That's what it means
Somewhere between 80 and 140 billion dollars this year depending on where you look and is growing no matter where you look
There's never been a more popular time to be a gamer in a world more socially accepting of the hobby and within the markets
More ripe with the endless catalogs of new and exciting games. No matter where you turn video games are just about everywhere
It's entirely within one's reach to quantifiably state that the video game industry itself is not crashing. In fact
Okay
So much for the entire point of this video no i'm already halfway through the plots get a thickened
Booming we're not even halfway through yet
The most popular ways to spend one's time
Perhaps it's not that the industry is crashing
But maybe the perceived quality of it to those that actually care about specific elements of it
Make it seem like it's crashing
Most of the growth in the video game industry comes from the communitas of the average gamer
And I think that's what many people forget the bulk lead with the chief
Here we go
Or
The listen to me like it's crashing most of the noun commonly referred to either an
Unstructured community in which people are equal or the very spirit of community. It also has
Special significance as a lone word in cultural. Okay. Yeah, you're telling me that totalled used latin in his video
Uh, yes, he had to go out of his way to find a latin word
Slice up
Dude, I can play if he was here right now. You're like tunnel
Did you really use a latin word in one of your scripts and you would just be like yes
It's like those people that use minutia
Comes from the communitas of the average gamer at least minutia can be used and I think that's deliberate
I think you really did use that ever said
Communitas this would be the first I think he must have been taught it in school at use
I know that one
I think that's what many people forget the bulk lead with the cheap and free to play
Which is nearly half of it if we use global games market as a source
Which is probably the most reliable source we have
It's no surprise. All right, then he says it so it must be true
Prize that so many games once entrenched in the sixty dollar price points or otherwise have messled their way
entrenched in the sixty dollar price point or otherwise
So not entrenched
Why would you say entrenched and then say oh well other things people are calling him latin old latin old?
Tonaled rex
I just found it funny how he's like he uses a clip of his dog killing somebody and he just kind of like kicks the body across the graph
This one's my favorite pax tenaldo what pax tenaldo
That that's that's latin all kind of latin. Oh, it's kind of
It just told all this locust
At that point you just casted spells so what said tonal probably has a room temperature IQ
Um, that's a bit much for him, I think come on I guess it arises and falls depending on how hot it is
You don't actually yeah, I could follow that link
That explains this script
And to the confines of our phones our pockets
With such a huge audience, it would be a grave mistake not to take advantage of the opportunity
So maybe such a looming crash is and will affect where the triple-a markets heads
Because all the other directions point to an increased interest in the industry at least from the masses and from the casual gaming crowd
Although we have seen that a full-price game whether it's in a yearly rotation or not
Can make more money than what is poured into making it and by a landslide a zelda game mario got a zelda game
Shows got a war. It's like, okay
Distracting but whatever time I still can't get over the fact that he said minority voices while showing uh,
a female sex worker game across the room
A call of duty minority voice a mad spider-man anything from rockstar much of the triple-a markets is actually spread very thin
Most of those big-time games are made by the same companies over and over and over especially after so many have been consolidated under similar roofs
With a growing amount of mergers acquisitions and buyouts over the last decade
The biggest of the big are only getting bigger by swallowing that look smaller
Talking about there's always a bigger fish swallowing the small one the system
Always a bigger fish. Do you think you stole that quote from the phantom menace? He didn't say that word for word
There's always a bigger boat
There was like too big a fish than the fish that originally would
Happen twice
One of them was like had legs though. So one of them was really creepy
I I would have I would have liked a movie about that one, but we didn't get I think technically they're not fish because fish are
from earth
Um, that was earth
Oh nabu is just old earth
Old earth. Yep
How old?
17
That's not old
Didn't they didn't specify units
17 what I don't know what to do now. You don't deserve it 17 after I don't know
a
S
4s
development studios
Of course, there's always going to be outliers like maybe an indie developer like super giant games
But like sgg most of the small companies out there that have their heads above water are private
And not traded in the public sector economy while they may have the talent
Often they don't have the resources money or savviness to stay afloat in the
happiness, um
Was really confusing to have what I assume was that game footage where it just showed text in the middle of the screen and it
Didn't relate in any way to what he was saying. Yeah, it's just like a title card because I didn't know the game
Like indie indie groups can sometimes make it but most of the time they don't I guess was this yeah
I bet you could make it to the summit, too
Greater video game markets they have no choice but to merge and that's why I don't really care about
TV. Oh my god, they were
Hey, man, don't you say to be honest
Not I don't say in conversation tbh. I do it all the time
I've got a little l h remember when I said it just now
No, I don't you don't say the letters. You just say
That is
Greater video game markets they have no choice but to merge and that's why we have seen so much consolidation
How do you compete with a cheaper game?
Maybe that's more addictive to a larger audience all the while having so much risk to bring about again
Apparently I never played this campaign does anyone get played that
So wait, I saw like compilations of the
On youtube, but I never actually played it
Is this that single player star wars that's coming out or is this no, this is I think this is from battlefront 2
Yeah, oh battlefront 2 always makes me sad because I see it and i'm like, oh that game
Looks awesome. I want to play that and then I remember what game it probably is i'm like, oh
Yeah, I bought it for like three dollars on
Origin and it's really not good
Yeah, that was the one that stirred up the entire loot box confersing major
I want my three dollars back
You realize I could have put that toward a pizza
But well, it's pretty simple you don't take that risk you curb it
Hold on go back to that title card because I want to point something out about it
Take that risk
You see it's on my screen
Curb it
Hang on, let me try let me try
Yeah, okay risk to bring about a game that might not go over so well
It's pretty simple. You don't take that risk you curb there
Okay, notice how?
The c and the y are both not the i
Just you curve. Oh, yeah
It's really inconsistent with this capitalization doesn't even capitalize his name 33
How did you graduate high school
That's you don't understand it's relevant to this this is narrative doubling you don't do
Give doubling
This is where I believe the crash quote unquote is really taking root
It's in the shifts of the culture of game development today shifts
It's prematurely released games games that have a hard-on for monetization and the
Jeopardization of the current game by salivating in the future vision of it while failing to deliver on the actual
current game movements like fitting costs
At all I thought he was going to say actual taxing for some reason
Oh shit actual taxing benefits. That's uh, yeah, correct quote and he wouldn't quote gedel
gedel's beneath him
Sense etc don't help either with more vicious competition today
It does increase the cost of developing those top video games, which creates a need to recoup those costs
Especially because the $60 price tag slapped on the side of the box hasn't gone up in almost 30 years. Yeah, he says that
But all the monetization and shit
That uh way more. Oh, yeah, and so you'd be paying way more than just the $60 the game
Yeah, so the game he literally said the one on the side of the box though
But the implication is like
You know, he's like, oh they're increasing in blah blah blah blah
Even though the price stays the same on the side of the box like yeah
Why would he say on the side of the box? Not on the side. It's on the back
The front normally on the front
But not the side that's just where the title is the world agreed to start like on the spine or something
It's like literally not on the side of the box
You could have said corner
Donald this don't take that tonal. This this was the biggest problem with either video. Would you call it a box?
It's a case
I would call it a case. Yeah, got you again tonal on the shelf
Do you think he goes to like somewhere do you think he like actually goes somewhere like a back alley with loads of boxes?
Sifts through them
Hold on. I gotta grab just a game
Do you want gta mass effect andromeda or
Say I grabbed I don't know inserted two for example. Here's my copy of god of war or
Um, there is literally not a price tag at all
Oh
That is that has proven this video wrong
There's not tonal this
It's a sticker that they put either on the front or on the back or it's on the shelf
Below it or it's on the side of the box
Don't they usually like put the price tag on the corner
Like on top of the plastic wrap and you just tear off the plastic wrap and it's not there anymore
Yeah, unless you get it like used from game stop in which case you got to peel it off
Yeah, I got a sticky residue and then
Yeah, no matter how careful you are
Yeah
Which creates a need to recoup those costs especially because the 60 price tag slapped on the side of the box
Hasn't gone up in almost 30 years
So perhaps it's not the crash that's about to happen
But about how game makers are working to get out of its way
To adjust to the pressures of the mass market the culture of mobile gaming and protect themselves by trying to beat them
It's not about the crash. It's about the effects of the crash you're gonna have
Don't you see that's that's much more profound than anything you could have thought yourself
Watch an actual crash happen when outbox when loot boxes get outlawed
Personally whenever i'm writing a script. I will just have these videos running at the like four at the same time. I can absorb that
the the galaxy genius
In another way
Unfortunately, this is where all the problems actually lay
It's why companies continue to prod us with their greedy-ass pitchforks gravitate
Why is it just like concept art now that makes him sick and disgusted
Well, what is he talking about? Is he talking about concept art with them in another way?
Unfortunately, this is where all the problems actually lay
It's why companies continue to prod us with their greedy-ass pitchforks gravitate to mobile and live gaming services
And ask more of us while giving us less in exchange
It's really as if these companies are using these tools as a means to compete with the pressures because they just don't know how to otherwise
What is the context for that image?
He's actually using examples
So he's these are all games with big microtransactors
Yeah, so he's saying that uh to compensate for the effects of a video game crash. They are boosting the crap out of
Additional monetization. Is that is that what i'm getting?
And he's yeah, and he's actually showing visual examples rather than just mashing footage together
Well, i'm proud of you tony tonald
Nailed I I good job. I nailed it. Just you did it you said the female version of tonal
Tonaled I just hope you you don't maintain this because otherwise I won't have as much
Nobody can compete with the future which is the mobile gaming markets because it does capture the attention span demands price points and
Accessibilities of the casual crowd, which is the majority the free-to-play boom has also had a major impact on the economy video games
Which can rip players away from their own games that they used to love
Because they can try out a game for free and maybe never look back
There's just not enough of an audience for everyone to win ripping you away
There's just not enough of an audience for everyone to win. Yeah, that applies to like every industry ever
Yes
But okay pew that prosper
Yay random game footage
This is one of my favorite video essay tropes i'm so glad to see it
Tonal does it the best yeah totals ones are really unrelated
There's just not enough of an audience for everyone to win. So it's the few that prosper
That's such a bizarre
I fucking love that shit. It's so well done. What does that have to do with anything?
It's the few that prosper death by axe
And then a hard cut it's the exact same shit as the splatoon joke I made with the you know, they're
Cutting away from the legal end explosions. Yeah, it just goes
Then cuts to be talking
I
Love it. So I think we're I think we're some in for female totaled memes in a sec because i'm here
I'm seeing people come up with names
toenail a toenail
The female totaled his toenail
Oh
The stream is killing it's just a toenail painted scarlet with a face
Games like god of war that know they are good invest in the talent to realize its dream
And confidently come to the market
This is an example of how to beat the market and the execution of a fantastically made product
But not every game can be god of war and not every game has kratos
Not every game has a budget in the hundreds of millions or the someone said totaled versus slownled
Versus fastled versus daddled versus latin old versus pro jared versus toenail
There's so many different visions of toenail
So it's like the different
Tonya luke
Tonya
That's it. That's christ old mctonnell
I love it. Donald had a channel
In my opinion
Oh
Support of a studio that can make it happen
There is no substitute for god of war. There is no team that could have made it for half the cost
This is why the industry is what it is today
It's an industry where the mighty few monopolize the profits of the many where if you can't beat him you join him
It's why the industry has spread itself so thin
And why the only smart way to go about it to beat the system is to go around it and develop a game
That has nothing to do with god of war you make a fortnight
You buffer the risk. I'm, sorry. What is this logic?
You know, i'm confused. I don't want more fortnite
Fun fact though fortnite, uh started out as just a zombie survival co-op thing that was like just about to die if they didn't rip off
Um pub gg only then did they become popular? So fortnite almost failed in that respect
Get woke go luke
Oh
Tone by not confronting it you go where it's safe smart and booming
You go where you know people are and hope to strike rich clash of clans
Yeah, I was so jenna just said why why the only way to go around it is to go around it. Did he actually just
Say all of that. I really didn't I think i'm getting lost in the in the forest of tonaled
Saying so much cheaper shit that we don't notice anymore when it happens
The thing i was almost like too much tonaled. I think I need to like have a breather because it's just tonaled
No team that could have made it for half the cost
This is why the industry is what it is today
It's an industry where the mighty few monopolize the profits of the many where if you can't beat him you join him
It's why the industry has spread itself so thin and why the only smart way to go about it to beat the system is to go
Around it and the only small way to go about it is to go around it
Okay
But didn't he just establish that it's smart to join them as well if you want to win
Well, he said like if you want to join this if you don't want to join the system
You got to go around it. I think he's what he's trying to say. All right, tonal
Develop a game that has nothing to do with god of war you make a fortnight
You buffer the risk by not confronting it you go where it's safe smart and booming
You go where you know people are and hope to strike rich clash of clans hope to strike rich
He fucking said clash of clans will cut into fifa
I'm not crazy. I hope to strike rich. That's he means strike gold, right?
I don't think people say strike rich. They like strike gold or strike
Who is rich and why are we striking him? I think he would if rich was made of gold and you struck him
You might get a lot of
That would be striking gold. Yeah
Exactly, and he said strike rich
Just as well
I'm glad you guys agree hands
Candy crush deed or you try to beat the system by being strategic cut content for resale and try to steer progression away from
Sorry, that's void this game. So beat the system
It's like you this game is the system
This is like one of the most mainstream games that are abusing the system that currently exists
This this game like literally had lawsuits filed against it for gambling this game fucked up
Everyone else like all the other mainstream games were like dude you you dug your hand into the cookie jar example
That's where the loot box conversation began
Well, yeah, certainly got popularized like crazy realize the entire country of belgium outlawed this game
EA wanted to fight it tooth and nail and then they stopped
But it looks so good
Player bank accounts
Make the same stuff that you know is going to work and remake the same game that already sold well
The unfortunate side effect is that so many games focus on these business integrations and getting to the same place
of safety rather than
same place
of safety
Also, yeah
He's kind of ignoring the fact that there's a lot of people out there who like he'd probably like
Fucking halo master chief flex just coming on pc. He's just like a remake
I just be like a lot of people want these things though
Like to imply they only make it for money
When like people have been asking for halo on pc
Since halo too, it's kind of like a chicken and the egg sort of thing, right?
It'd be like hey mullet. Do you want to get a
Remake of resiny before I'd be like fucking hell. Yeah
Great and then tonal's like they're abusing you they're making you pay for a game you already have
But want that
Truly developing their own identity and branching off into creativity
It's making a lot of games like got a war on pc so I could play it. It's making a lot of games thin
I want bloodborne on pc
Yes immediately that too because I can't play that game because the frame rate is so bad
It's so bad and it gets in the way of controls like I get delays
I try so hard. It gives me motion sickness to play that game and that's a game where like
You know, obviously it's in the same vein of as dark souls where if you aren't paying like really close attention getting those
Parries and all that shit down correctly, then you're gonna get fucked up. And if i'm having motion sickness trying to do that
I mean, it's not fun
Yeah, I wish it was on pc because I'd totally play the shit out of it. Oh, yeah
Same with all the god of war games. Like I don't want to keep my ps4 forever to play
god of war four and then have to
Um
emulate the rest of the games
Like just put them all on pc where I can play them forever same with spyro put spyro on pc. Do that
Just put everything on pc since it's better
Yeah from what I understand. I think a couple of playstation exclusives are actually coming to pc
Although they're coming by way of the epic game. So i'm not quite sure nothing good at all
Yeah
I take it back. I take it back
Boo
Strangely veneel sometimes
Sorry strangely it's all lowercase. What is veneel?
I've not heard that before but creativity. It's making a lot of games thin stale strangely veneel sometimes
What is that I have not heard that before strangely veneel
I really I really know I know you said strangely veneel, but I want to think he said strange even eel
like
We're talking about like the animal and eel. Yeah, so so it sounds like a vanilla. I don't think he just pronounced
Let's let's start again. He said even eel mentioned off into creativity
It's making a lot of games thin stale strangely veneel sometimes strangely even eel. That's what he's saying strangely veneel
That's what i'm hearing
veneel
veneer
even eel
Having a veneer is something you wouldn't say it's strangely veneer
It sounds like what he's trying to say is like a vanilla
What what it comes up with is denoting a sin that is not regarded as depriving the soul of divine grace
You know
Let me get his quote and then I will replace that word with what you just said that'll be a gedel quote branching off into creativity
It's making a lot of games thin stale strangely veneel sometimes
What ultimately causes a market crash? Sorry, it's people it's the
times
No, ultimately conal. They need to
Can we put subtitles on this?
Of safety rather than truly developing their own identity and branching off into creativity
It's making a lot of games thin stale strangely veneel sometimes
What ultimately causes a market crash it's brain actually it's the voice. What was your definition?
Denoting a sin that is not regarded as depriving the soul divine grace
Okay, i'll just copy it and put it
Let's just say i'm looking to say all day
This is important work
I was I was uh, I turned closed captioning on
It's the the captioning. I assume this is just auto generate
Because it says yeah auto generated comes up with capital v-a-n-i-l-l-e
v-a-n
I
l-l-e
Yeah, and it's a capital v for some reason like it's a um, that's coming up with a bunch of businesses. Yeah
So I think it's auto generated is confused too. It's capital because it knows it's a tonaled video
I think wolf nailed it
It's making a lot of games thin stale and strangely denoting a sin that is not regarded as depriving the soul of divine grace
It's probably what he's trying to say
Perfect. See that rubs off on other people and makes them believe that indeed a crash is coming when in fact
It might not be coming and then they believe it though, and it does become reality
This is how what what as my old econ teacher said if we believe the market is going to head in x direction
It's going to head in x way when sorry
There's no one else want to comment on that like it's not going to happen and people don't think it will happen and that's what will happen
Panic frenzy that rubs off on other people and makes them believe that indeed a crash is coming when in fact
It might not be coming and then they believe it though, and it does become reality
I was surprised by no one else coming. I was honestly I was reading something in chat. Yeah. Yeah, I missed it
I want to listen to it again
Okay, this is do it. Give it slownold. Yeah, we'll go with slownold
Developing their own identity and branching off into creativity
It's making a lot of games thin stale strangely veneal sometimes
What ultimately causes a market crash
It's people
It's the panic frenzy that
Rubs off on other people and makes them believe that indeed a crash is coming when in fact
It might not be coming and then they believe it though
And it does become reality
So so let's break this down
People think it's coming but it might not be coming but because they believe it it comes
So is the logic here
Believing that it will happen can cause it to happen
Like he's actually making the point that it's not going to happen until people think it will and then it does because they thought that
So if I really really really
Santa
Then it just will happen whether he may or may not be true
Oh my god, wow
Keep your thoughts in order fellow gamers. I I just want to again. I've said this multiple times, but again
He scripted this
Guys he has he read it aloud. He recorded this and then he edited it
published it
and
He stands by it. He has an audience
You don't have time to think about things in a day. He has an audience that unironically
Look at this. I've got like a script from two videos of his
And I mean you would read off these quotes to someone and be like no say that and it's like
The hero board locu you would say this
You would hesitate not to over how insane the first few seconds of this video was
What is with that strangely veneel thing? What's that about?
It's like a friend says weird the conversation just let us slip by but here we could just keep replaying it
You can pause it
Strangely veneel like what did you think he was saying?
I was because I like tried like multiple different spellings and I wasn't coming up with anything aside from that
How every crash happens
As my old econ teacher said if we believe the market is going to head in x direction
It's gonna
That's not how it works
It's gonna go that way because we think it's gonna kill that way tunnel that's not how it works
Total
You
Have to draw more of a like if the idea was I didn't want to try and
Explain saying that he he was using the french way of saying vanilla, but why would he?
Why would why would tonaled use the french pronunciation speaks french ad latin
Those are his
Those are his primary languages and that's why you can't ever speak in english
I would sound smarter if I said this one word in french. Leave the meal
Until that I say oh chante
New game industry heading for another crash
Specifically the downturn
prices for some of our major companies
But considering the worldwide stock economies also currently down from the
S&P to foreign trade and tech
And cryptocurrencies
It actually you're just saying stuff
These things are down apparently it's like all right
Vanille might be represented
Someone said
Janille
I don't think that's what he said, but we didn't say that
We're trying so hard to fix him
The second one says, um pleasantly mild and warm
Nah, that wasn't because he was using, you know stale there was definitely a v
Yeah, I heard of we're trying tonaled
We're trying to give you the benefit trying to translate his message to the audience
But we we're trying so hard to make you seem less stupid than you are but
It's hard hard man
You make it very difficult a greater problem
One that's maybe bigger than the games industry
Okay, I personally think that the video game industry is exciting and very dynamic
Sometimes you just have to look beyond the $60 price tag to find the ones that are the most special
Very special
This man needs to be president
Sometimes you have can you imagine tonaled like giving a presidential speech
We must build an artificial barrier of blockage
And Mexico will pay for it only if they believe hard enough
But because much of the economic movement in this industry is dictated by big companies
Naturally big companies would yeah economy sometimes those games get overlooked
I hope this video was at least in some way. Yes, it was
Promise you it was
Informative not in the way you want to know down below in the comment section guys. I appreciate it
Did you see how awful that shot was he aimed at the guy's head and then moved up and shocked?
Check that out. I hope this video was at least in some way entertaining or
Informative let me know the auto aim put him in the perfect position. They just aim up
Have a great day the auto is probably like what are you doing?
Have a great day. It's a little image of a kid raising it
It makes sense and we'll see you guys soon
Peace love and happiness until then
He's loving happiness until then
But it will stop
That felt like a really satisfying meal of tonal, you know, yeah, here we go guys another epic asaga completed
I like that pretty much any tonal video we
Oh, hang on. Does it matter if he's right?
Oh, I said, uh
I said like pretty much any tonal video we
Is perfect
Yeah, it doesn't matter if he's correct. He's just usually really stupid
It's it's vanilla
And he'll mess it up somehow
Each of his videos are very vanilla as like that's always always felt
Yep
I've had my mind holes filled by totals essence today
I think it's only natural
Also, there are memes but I need to collect them. So talk amongst yourselves about life and science
Yeah, I don't know if I can talk about anything, you know
Yeah, like the enlightenment was pretty I feel like a stupider person
It feels like an arc though. Like i've really come to love his channel is so stupid. I know
We went from like being like yeah, that dude sucks to like now it's just pure unadulterated joy
It's more entertaining to rip him apart than like in your fucking game of thrones right now
Like this at least makes us laugh really really hard but
I still wonder if he's aware of us or not
Like he's got to be by now someone's got to have told him right?
I wonder if he's like any like non-ironic fans of tonaled in our audience. That's like they just don't understand
Well, the the dislikes did start to go up we started covering tonaled so
We want to encourage likes
Yeah, no, no, no, we we don't want him to be discouraged about what he's doing. He has to keep doing his thing. He's amazing
If adora wearing gandalf totals, no, it's his dad
And it's just anime tonaled we have any toenail looks
I guess that would be toenail look
No, no, that's the female version. Yeah
Wow, oh my god, what the fuck is that it's making
Like thin spike text spread over too many words
Look at this tonaled graph
You know, I can see the totaled in the dry
It's like oh my god, it's perfect
Is that bayouin again? That is bayouin again, dude
He's so fucking good and mauler i'm noticing that you're in all that you're the only one that doesn't have a bayouin
Or does it not yeah, and that's what that's a that's a long totaled. So
How's your chance?
Wait, I don't have a what sorry
You don't have a bayouin avatar. Oh, yeah, it's just gonna fucking play with the discord thing if I try and do that
Oh
Okay, the joke will be that like roll my collection of gaggling idiots and i'm raining you in
Just put put a picture over it in ovs do that
Oh god, what is this one day? I know it john's spider adams the rule you can like the last jedi you cannot pick
The rules I think we got well daddled. Oh wonderful
I think that's just kratos's beard. Yeah
I'm like, what is he doing there? Is that like a um, who's who's that guy ray william johnson?
Is that like what he's doing with the background there?
Tonald always looks slightly bewildered
He's got the spot not covering his chin
Do
Do you think like when he goes to his like parents house
Dad have like really long conversations where they have a bunch of pauses in between them
What is that in the background oh sure
Oh my god, why can I zoom in on this thing on
in hands
Can't zoom in shit
It looks like a slug with a crown on or something I can't tell load old
In my 10 seconds later genuine opinion
What what's on his face
What is that? Is that a jojo reference? I don't know whenever we don't know it. It's probably a jojo
It's probably that's what I thought about it
It's theon. Oh, that's the stick sticking out of his chest. Oh, it's theon
Which actually leads us into i'm going to read all the super chats now
So, uh, yeah just two hours left
Just to find the thing because like fucking frozen so many times I have to go through like the actual
That menu instead of using the one on the live just a dashboard thing
Remember when act man was on here wolf feels like it was three faps ago
Um
Acting mail yay also rags. No
That's that was the case with this one around the acting mail has arrived efap on my birthday. I'm down
Oh raise the lords of the toxic
I wish someone a happy birthday if they've already said it's their birthday. That means you only did it because they told you
You didn't do it just because you catered
Well, I I just wish everyone a happy day no matter what day it is. It just happens to be their birthday
Oh heck yes the act man now get rags in here and all my favorite ubers will be in one show
It'll be my wildest dreams come true. He honestly was kind of expecting if rags was going to be like
Around at some point, but I think he actually might have been busy the whole day. Oh wait, he's gone on some kind of trip, right?
I think so. Yeah
No chance of seeing rags. I see you finally got rid of that rags guy replaced him with act man a wise choice
But anyway guys i'll catch up on this
They will toto the tape
Can you give these two dollars to act man, please I can
For real i'll i'm actually gonna put that in no because I don't
Mueller i'm genuinely. Sorry. I revealed to jay's audience that you were gay before you were ready
Yes
I told creamy sheath that in confidence and he just he just cleared it out in a super chance. Oh
Thanks, dude
Don't believe anything he says don't believe anything he says it's all an act man
Stopped again because someone just said jay dead. Why is why are you asking if i'm dead? I can't hear you
Sorry, you're you I mean they're judging from your profile picture probably
Sure look like you've been bludgeoned
That's just my face. So it's just uh, it's the tonaled version of what happened to glenn and
Top that collar and bring on louise or louise
Wolf your recent video has me trying to write fanfics again and the fun of creating
Act man. Have you seen dragon? Oh, yeah, we got to ask. So yeah
Uh, that's good because wolf's video was about how bad things can lead to good things, right? Yeah. I
Yeah, it was all about fan fiction
Definitely
You gotta I think you got a decent response to that video, right? Like uh, I got you know that in my rant got way more
Expecting like I was expecting like maybe 10k for both, but then they both got well over 100
That's kind of weird
Well, I I expected that out of the rant because that's that's what you do, man
I mean, yeah, but that was like at the ass end of a stream. That's unlisted. It's like, why are you people watching?
Why do you like it so much? I don't get it
Note to all massives just stop
No, all masses hello there act man
How many guests have wolf spoiled so far also, when are we getting tj and scottie kirker's next guests?
I don't think that's gonna happen ever
That'd be really weird what we
Who knows maybe one day does tj even guest on things anymore I think at some point he does
Maybe maybe um
Yeah, how many guests has wolf spoiled so far do you mean like
Giving them away before the episodes or well. Hey, I don't say their names
Like with er. I was just like it's just someone who who has been requested quite a lot
And then with act man, I was just like it's just a guy that acts
That's a good riddle no one would ever get that I like that that's good. Yeah
That's a lot of damage. Oh, hey act man is here. He's god tier. Oh, yes
Three weeks not being able to throw money at wolf. Oh
Aping to the wilderness
It was the unicorn store wasn't it? Well
No, that's what did it
No, it was game of thrones me dick stinks
They usually look but I saw act man and wolf in the same video. Thank you long, man
We bring people together here at the toxic brood
Yeah
Hey act man. Welcome to efap thoughts on adoption
Baller drinks monster boobs blue milk original source md ggp
Yes, that's monster baller drinks
I'm not sure what that
Act man is gonna aya stark tonal. No, he would never
That was actually the original intention was to have him actually talk about
C tonal, but the way he goes is just everything went too long
I was surprised by how much he talked about um game of thrones. Yeah, he seemed into it. It was cool
Like yeah, yeah
I thought that it was mainly going to be halo and card because I don't know
Let you guys talk while I go and have you know
Um
It was game of throne
And they say that i'm the pizza. I know right. I can't even recommend game of thrones anymore season eight sunk it all. Oh
You think it's sunk and you haven't seen the end yet?
I uh, I was actually hanging out with alex today and he didn't know about any of the um,
The leaks I won't say any here. I don't ruin it, but
john snow kills dinner is it
I just like whatever
I I told him all of the things and he wasn't even like
He he he was the sort of like, you know, the face fry has that people get around with just your eyes
You're just like I don't trust you sort of thing. I'm just like no really he's like
Really though?
Okay, really ran on the iron throne no way that's that's that's no that's a funny joke wolf funny joke
Probably going to be my second favorite stream first being wolf losing his mind
Blessed toxic rhino brood enjoy vacation wolf act man. Love your videos, dude. Still waiting for oh, yeah
Yeah, wolf's gonna have a wonderful vacation when he comes back. You'll find that he's been usurped
Yeah, where are you going?
Colorado cool
Oh the past couple years and real fun when you come back. I think
Pizza man will be back in normalton. So
Be able to he won't be in the alley with yeah, and so we'll finally do the the big six man crossover podcast would be great
Righty then uh, so this is the part where they learn why we should subscribe to act man
The guy fascinates me also long live the toxic brood. Y'all are awesome
I mean, yeah, I think I think he sold himself pretty well. The guy is lots to stay on lots of topics
smaller harry potter grew more than iron man
And I don't think so what
Uh, so physically he did. Oh, well, yeah, but as a character
I think I went through way more than harry potter did over the uh,
The set of movies harry always seemed kind of the same to me throughout the whole thing
Like yeah goodman. He does goodman things
We need to watch him again, but iron man glasses grew bigger his glasses did group
Check the dragon demands. He rips d and d on dnd and on game of thrones fair enough. I think that's probably youtube channel
Don't worry wolf brandon sanderson will finish the books
If only but george said that that won't happen because he doesn't want anyone to finish it
But him so yay, we're never gonna see the ending. Thanks george
Morley your game of thrones season eight episode three video is incredible. The line
What wobbly dildo wrote this is hands down the funniest thing i've heard all year. So thank
Heckels i'm glad you enjoyed it
I wonder if that's been usurped by anything tonaled is said in this
Yeah, I kind of wonder it's like watching this episode of efap
There's probably some fucking highlights people could draw out of this one with the
The thing is if you don't have the context of totaled I imagine a lot of people be like
Why are they laughing so much at this?
You don't understand
You should watch blue is the warmest color. It has a tight plot. It's incredibly realistic and you get to look at women
All right, but blue isn't the warmest color plot hole. That is true
Which fell harder disney wars or game of thrones?
I'd have to say disney wars
That's actually really difficult today
I'm still gonna say disney wars. I still think game of thrones nosedived
But it was a nosedive after falling really slowly over a long period of time as well
while
star wars if you don't consider the prequels as damage on the ot
Does take a very
Wick nosedive and then nosedives again, you know
It was yeah, he said yeah, he said disney wars
So it's all like we can't really count like prequel falling into the equation
It has to be when disney picked him up and that in that case I still still well star wars as a thing
Before they took it involved the prequels
It was like how good do you consider it and then how big is the fall?
And that's the thing for game of thrones. It's like as bad as season 8 is not like the show was amazing. It's like yeah
Yeah
Neither was star wars. It's a complicated question
End game was so bad. I've had bad dreams about it game of thrones so bad
It's good and the twitter rage over its is great. Everyone is mad
This is great, but I swear to god if attack on titan and shitly as well. I'm 100 done with media
Well, I have some bad news for you because i've read the manga and
Like after after the season three arc is done. It's gonna start to lose its shit
because
I saw the uh, the anime it was like we're at like season two part one or some shit
We're at season three. I think season three part just
Oh, is that what that okay
Yeah, because I had seen the recent one up until then
It's like before that season started
They like teased something and then they never got back to it and then they teased it again at the end
Of this season's like what the fucking?
whatever
Yeah, like the in fairness this arc is like the best part of attack on titan
But like after that I I don't like where the author took it
I think it really kills
Pretty much everything about it
I'm intrigued
halfway
I mean, i'm still gonna finish it because it's like coming to a close and it's like the first anime I ever watched but
And the first manga I ever read but it's like I really don't like where the author went with it
Maybe they'll change it for the better
Yeah
You can adapt it make it better mola. How much will you forgive for the rule of cool?
It seems you don't allow for cool thinking particularly of the black panther movie and the people standing on the wall of the waterfall
That was cool
I don't know. It's just seem really silly to me because it's like how the fuck do you guys get up there?
It's like they're really dangerous. So
And I don't know there's not much of a
Things being cool being allowed if they don't make sense that sort of thing. Not a huge fan of that
Yeah, this is the thing. I don't think i've ever been an advocate for that. Well if I ever said
Yeah, but it's cool. I'm probably just playing around because I know that that's not an excuse
Yeah, no, I don't really allow for it
Here's 20 schmeckles for having my favorite acting male on efap. Love you all
I've been watching game of thrones since season three. I recommended it to so many people over the years
I'd like to apologize to them all and welcome acman
Yeah, yeah
Efaps 36 game of thrones debate mola and rags versus david and wyce. Oh, could you imagine?
Yeah
Will never happen
If you were given the opportunity to create a movie trilogy of your own what franchise would you make it in star wars?
lord of the rings aliens, etc
Like literally any choice
Doctor here i'd be tempted to do star wars actually
If you're given a movie trilogy to do which franchise would you want to make it within? So star wars lord of the rings aliens, etc
I'd happily go with star wars or game of thrones actually and just try and fix everything
Like let's do it three movies. We can do it
I don't think you could fix everything in three. No, you can't again
I just be like oh fucking star wars and i'd go to some distant part of the galaxy a billion years ago and just have some fun
What what do you get? What do you what do you what do you do?
Uh, I do pirates of the caribbean and make the second two movies good
I mean you could just make your own thing. He's not saying you have to like recreate I think oh
Hmm, but I like the first movie. No, I know i'm just
You take a universe and you can do whatever you want. Actually, you know what? I I do the hobbit
I do the hobbit
I honestly well, I don't know if this really counts toward the question
I would I would I would like to see an I am legend video game under the right, you know
Out of that more accurate to the movie or to the book to
Life I never saw the book. I don't know. I only saw the movie the movie's virtually nothing like the like the book
Okay. Well, I haven't read the books. I wouldn't be able to tell you but I I can imagine
uh, the
I am legend being a pretty fucking interesting game. So
Yeah
And you want to talk to who is it jay
Yeah, there's a load of really cool untapped lore that's only in like
Obscure shit that should be on the screen, but it isn't
Yeah, like you can do a lot with like scrap Daleks. I think that's probably where you want to go with it. How dare you
Don't mention that to me. Hey, I agree. I want to see you pursue that
I thought on the fact that george r martin said to never take prophecy 100 literally people say that's why john wasn't the one to kill
the night king
um
I'm confused as to so like that seems very binary. So if I have a prophecy that says
wolf will die from eating
Then you're like, oh man, he's gonna eat a pizza and die
But it's like, oh, what would he eat? Oh, what could it possibly be and then like someone eats him
You go wolf will die from eats. Oh, okay
This one said you you shouldn't have taken it literally and it'd be like well, both of those were literal weren't they?
It's like super dependent the idea there's like zora high not being taken literally means ayah does it i'd just be like
What do you mean? That's
At that point it's just like a zora high just means someone will do something
Like okay. Yeah, you can take a literally in which case there's just no point to john's
Yeah, so I don't know depends on which prophecy and what it says and I feel like that's just a cop out at that point
Explanation I came up with for fans of harry potter but not game of thrones
Just imagine if at the end of deathly house part one ron kills voldemort
I don't know how that's an explanation of anything. I feel like that's a context. I get it
Like it's like it's the same way that it's bad
For oh right, right, right because harry was prophesied to kill voldemort
Obviously, that's the big thing that they're building to you and then ron does it at the end of part one of deathly hallows
And make it so that ron appears out of nowhere and stabs him with a wand
He just goes blah
Where he just just penetrates him with the wand
Thoughts on disney's plan for avatar 2 through 5
Is anyone not excited?
Is anyone excited? I think both those questions. Oh equally valid except the second one
Blue people I thought you meant like the last airbender i'm like, wait what no, no
Yep, the blue the blue people are coming back to the silver screen
Yeah
Yeah, 11 years after they were relevant. Yeah, i'm like who was excited for that? I I don't I don't recall
gona
gona is
native americans in space
Yeah, congratulations. James cameron you
Completely ripped off dances with wolves, but made it with aliens and made it worse
And you decide to do it again
And again and again and the original cost right
Why I mean they got well, no, they don't have sagourney weaver anymore. She's dead
Oh
Sagourney reaver died
In the first movie. Oh, I thought you meant the actress like no my god. I would be heartbroken. I found out she died
Where did that happen? My god, that is going no one sucks. Is that is going to happen in our times?
Ah, i'm gonna be alive to see it. I hate every move
We we had to we're gonna have to sit through luke's death through han's death through
Uh all the fellowship of the ring's death. Not if we die first
Uh, yeah
You won't beat me. I remember when I used to say i'm gonna live long enough to see chris felide
Died I was pretty rude of him
I feel like danny has primarily succeeded due to dragons and people just showing up and pledging themselves to it because denarius
That would be true. Like that's pretty much your entire arc is to have other people
If you take john his whole thing is he keeps getting involved in like huge battles
And fighting and winning and then making really harsh decisions that he thinks
Right and they end up like creating more armies or different things pushing himself along basically. I win like
bribes and black males and scares people into getting things done
The seriously also does sort of that but then also like blows people up
Apparently I scared the shit out of a lot of people by saying
Scared me, uh, but yeah denarius. I don't remember what her name is in the movie. I'm sorry. It's just accordingly
Christopher Lloyd, yeah
Um, but yeah, uh denarius really does just get most things handed to her
Any smart decision is usually an advisor and then people fall in love with her, which is really annoying but
He'll be the bad guy. It'll be fine guys. You'll get to see her get mid
Yeah, I want all three of you to check out distance by refract studios on steam
I have a compulsive need to recommend this game to everyone I can
And search that up, all right
Yo, what do you guys think of episode four of game of thrones as apparently dan and dave forgot there's a story in game of thrones
He also forgot there was a coffee cup in the scene
She was staring directly at that thing
Like how did how did even amelia clark cannot be like?
Uh, can we redo this like hold everything?
It's right in front of her
Like how could anybody have just not noticed
They've uh, they've cgi'd out the cup and they're doing that's what they're releasing for like the dvds and stuff
So they fixed game of thrones. It's okay. God, they could cgi out the cup. Yeah, they
Was the proper farewell that goes on the stream
They updated the streamable vision to not have the cup. It's just like
Need to take a step on a proper goodbye, please take a step back you need to just stop
There's a cup in the scene, okay
Wrong martin rained them back in early seasons
I
Know what specifically that would be around. Let's be when we're talking about. Yeah
Finish my last final exactly do that for season four five
Finish my last final entertain me boys. I hope we did
Hope you realize these people you're bitching about now are going to be in charge of a cotor trilogy and that general name is mottie
General's name is mott. Uh, yeah, they're gonna fuck up star wars too
Got lots to look forward to
One down a dozen to go rip ukip hashtag 20 year plan
HBO offered to let dnd continue this story as long as they needed dnd said that this is what they wanted to do
And was all they needed to finish the story
They needed more but they thought they didn't so that's all the
I love you 3000
Just watch the arrival debate great stuff. Did you come up with a name for fringey's plague doc? I think it should be
necrosis
the plague frog tour
It's a little that's really it's a bit of a mouthful. Yeah
Necrosis you can get used to that the plague frog
Necrosis
reading his stream the other day and having all the fans call him foggled good enough
Froggled has sort of kicked off already. I think yeah
To be fair tim rothman the head of fox demanded deadpool was sewn shut because he hated the character
It would have been wise. It wouldn't have been wise his call
um
Is that like just definitively a true because like a lot of people are running with it
And even if that was true, that's still dave's issue with making him so in the suffer
Sown shut and let's be honest. That's not the only issue with that
There's a couple
Why is japanese porn so awful?
Oh
I don't think this is the place that we answer questions like that, but I can you know
I'm, sorry. The name really threw you off
really baffled
That's very specific who crossed serious sam and albert wesker. I think that's in reference to the act man
You'd have to ask jfap on that whole question there
So many podcasts to follow molar and wolf are all over the place great times also silently hoping john
Adams the oracle spider takes the iron throne by the end for all the show's worth anymore
Dude, that would be a great ending. Meanwhile would praise the shit out of that
And it makes the most sense
Every major clown world problem in media and culture right now is a result of mediocre and horribly insecure
Massives being given an unearned voice in society through social media backed
Major clown world problems and massives like you can't just combine clown clowns and massives. Those are very different things
Yeah, what if you had a massive clown or what if you had a clown who ate massives?
That'd be pretty hot
Can I major in milking orphans for efap uni can that's actually the primary uh also I think
Mola, how does your dentist usually clean your teeth mine uses his dick. Is that normal because i'm starting to think
That's uh, what did you sign up for?
Might want to talk to a police officer about that
A fun fact about benioff while at college. He was a brother at phy delta
Phi delt where pledges had to spend a night laying in a potato sack containing dried up shit of upper classmen
Free day we stray
Okay, is that true?
I don't I don't know but
Jesus christ, why would you do that?
Good look at channel the dragon demands for game of thrones. That's a second recommendation on that one
Uh, can we get dif we get definitive definition of what about ism?
uh
So like when you're trying to identify a bad and then someone says
Instead of admitting. Okay, that is a bad. They're like, well, the bad is also in the this thing over here. So
Explain that
Like that's not what we're talking about
And so the idea is they're like, what about this and you go that's what about ism?
Good old tism the brand of tism nice to see acman on efap only seen a bit of him
But I found his runescape video very enjoyable mola. Did you ask him the orphan question?
Why is it a thing this is one of those
The thing for everyone
All of the tactics of the battle gave me cancer. I think that was the intention behind the episode
They were they were testing it. They were like and
Easably function as a way to spread diseases
um
Daenerys whispered something to jar at the funeral. I think it was so I found out john is my nephew and was totally going to
Throw you a bone after this battle. Thanks a lot back to being the best auntie ever I guess
Yeah, well he's
Had a really good death. Um
Just that I don't know why he wore armor in the first pretty weird choice and
Should have just worn like a ninja outfit so we could have moved faster
The
A wolf which big bad king had a lame a death the night king or the crimson king
The night king was the crimson king was uh, he's from the dark tower. Oh
He's not really a big character
He's not big enough of a character or big enough of a force to be reckoned with in the books
To really grow attached to him in the same way that the night king was
I didn't really care for the night king or sorry crimson king
Night king was way worse dragon fire should work as it's magic and also is theorized that valyrian steel is made from it
Speaking of helms deep. Where were the volleys of arrows when the they light the trenches?
Are you talking about
In helms deep are you talking about in game of thrones there weren't trenches at helms deep so
Uh, I mean they did try arrows in game of thrones, but for some reason they only had like three archers
Not that that would have done anything anyway because it would have just lit like part of it on fire
While with magic you can just play all of it on fire immediately
Yeah, and then they put all their best archers around a
cripple in
At a tree that made sense best thing of
Uh maula say this is called weathered soul
I saw act ban in here and decided to watch no idea what is going on. But hi. Hello undecided and
Probably gone by now the normies arc the key
13 is an unlucky number true
I think one of the most obvious instances that dnd were completely military illiterate comparing the dragons to an f16 when they're way
Close to an a10 warthog was after show of loot
Uh, I don't know if you could compare them to either of those they're clearly more of a um
What's what's a what's a flight thing that sounds like I know what flight flight vehicle
plane
more of a plane
Don adams the great oracle spider did not died for game of thrones to be ruined also really love your stuff acme
He did die to be for it to be ruined don adams predicted that it would be ruined
The third rule or ever
I love this one act bad. No, it doesn't
All right, maula should read the flood he'd probably enjoy the book vision of the first game jackal snipers
No, that's a halo reference. Hey, there we go. We can tell where we are in the conversation through these
Yeah, white walkers are laying into the prologue. They let people live they engage in psychological warfare. They've always displayed human traits. Eh
Oh, you mean laughing in the prologue they laugh in the prologue
They laugh in the prologue
I don't remember that in the prologue of what in game of thrones. I remember them laughing and maybe in the book, but not on the show
Yeah, I don't remember
Um, let it definitely not on the show, but I don't remember letting people live could have all kinds of explanations
Like the fact that let sam live could definitely imply that he's like so good willed that the force of nature wouldn't consider
Him a potential threat or something like that
Um
Engage in psychological warfare. I find that interesting
um, but no
It's the display a human
You could argue that trees display human traits in in one way or another like the fact that the
They would grow toward the light or something like see it's desperately trying to be a
I
I'm pretty darn convinced by the dragon demands at this point. That's the third reference to this this pick
Halo 2 is best halo fight me in the streets
I wouldn't agree, but it's definitely one of the best
It wasn't so buggy and its difficulty wasn't so broken then it would be best
Oh, it's in chat as well in a pilot
Game of thrones walkers kind of play around with the guy who's guaranteed to die
This is the thing
There's no we don't know why that was always going to be something I thought they'd explain
Why did they spare him and why did they spare sam?
You can't argue that they were playing with either of them because they look at sam and then just carry on
Not like they were like poked him
I would have liked this
Halo campaigns from best to worst overall. This is this is from best to worst wolf
Halo 5 halo 5 halo 5 halo reach halo combat evolved halo 3 odst halo 2 halo 4
Halo 5 is the best don't at me
I'm gonna at you that was salad king if you want to at him
Wolf i've seen violet evergarden. Thanks to you and it was okay had some nice emotional episodes, but not as great as you promised
What did I promise exactly? I don't remember exactly, but I think you definitely said it was great, right?
I don't know why people keep putting words in my mouth about a show. I've literally just said it's great. It's good
I liked it. Well, okay
Like congratulations guys. You are really great at like spinning my opinion that you aren't even aware of
Well, this person said it's not as great as you promised if you said it was great again
like again
What did I promise I haven't made a video on I haven't gone in depth on it at all i've gained
Given like really nebulous claims at best
I don't know why people are like really on me about this when i've said like very little about it in the first place
Like jesus christ. I don't I don't know
People are retarded. I don't know
Halo reach was the worst halo game made
Three four three doesn't exist. No games were made after reach reach was the last game
Oh
then maybe
Act man
Finally you and maula made the videos which got me into dark souls and I thank you greatly for it. No problemo
Hello there rhino milk aficionados. Have you watched the iron sky and if so, what do you think of it?
Yes, I have
But
It's great. It's really funny
There you go
Game
That's that's that's the good answer there
And then they moved to warframe and I haven't left since waiting for someone to make me care about halo in the story again
Never gonna happen
Maybe the next one. I don't know praise the whole for three can't make good game
Praise the holy chad man. He wears his glasses after being blinded by the light of pure knowledge
Yeah
Does have the the reflection on his glasses. I did see the song of salt and poo
Okay
Wolf, do you think that your opinion on reach will change once you try the pc vision?
No
Why was it? I don't know. Maybe it's not gonna be any different. It's it's gonna have high
Better frame rate, which is also good. That's not gonna fix the issues that it has with the story
It's not gonna fish fish fix the issue of unbalanced. Uh
um fucking
What is it? Why am I drawing a blank on this armor abilities?
It's not gonna fix the bloom. Like those are the three massive things that break that game
And it those things aren't gonna be fixed fix the bloom
It can't fix massive though. I mean, why would they though because it would make the game better?
I mean, yeah, but 343 isn't known for their good decision making now. When are they interested in making a good game?
never
They got the name man, that's all they need
Yeah, just putting the same exact game on pc to make me like it anymore
It's a really good game is that the act man will you all marry me
I don't have them all
You can depending on where you are in the world no
I'm, sorry one of the rules. Yes
Where is rag is he will he will arrive in the latest?
I
Have you ever played card four on dsi because I did
No, but that sounds horrible
What's a dsi like the new ds or one of the new ds?
There is a call of duty game on the ds. How
What how would you permit? How would you put a first shooter?
Do not play metroid prime hunters
No
It was horrible, but
Just passing through to say that as a man of no color a blackie
I'm glad to see a stream evolving through people of all colors combined. Wow
A man of no color benioff worked as a bartender dj and got art studies degrees for about a decade after graduating
Luckily his dad stephen freedman was a former head of goldman sachs and chairman of the foreign intel advisory board under bush and obama
So after a decade of bumming around david was featured on people's magazine
Lists and then got jobs right and stuff like x-men origins. Yay rich elites
Well, i'm glad it brought us a lot of great content, didn't it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah lots of great content
Rhino milk thermos i'll take a dozen right now. I this is the thing. I would buy one. I would buy a rhino milk
I would unironically walk around with that
I'd want people to ask me i'd be like, oh you yeah rhino milk is like 97 water
Say what you will about netflix, but have you heard about the british canadian animated series on netflix called hilda? It's absolutely incredible
I've never heard of it. Yeah me neither
Anymore, I want to thank you for the work you put into your content for one of my finals
I had to do a critique on one of my science courses because of you. I did really well in that assignment
That's amazing that it would have translated
Um, i'm just going to say that's that's great. And I
Had that my content could possibly have an effect
Yeah
and so it was
At the beginning it was my dick stink and now this guy is is another one. It just says does your dick stink too?
Ackman someone needs to teach him a little bit about personal hygiene
The act man is on ef
Yeah, that's fair. That's the act man is on efap. I never thought i'd see this. Yeah, we got him
And uh, he ran away from wolf's podcast. Then he was like, oh maula's podcast. Yeah, i'll come on there
Funny natural. Well, I was the one that asked. I don't know what you mean. I asked him who just happened to be there
And I was friends with him. Me and him have known each other for 10,000 years now
You're not
What?
Okay, fine. I'm only 11 000 years old. So I knew him a thousand years into existence, but that's still readable possible. It's not a plot hole
Okay, how do you feel about receiving review care? Oh, yeah, I read that
Uh doctor children
How have you heard that?
Yeah, the hilda question again
What question question oh well is the another person asked about hilda so apparently that's hilda the show on netflix
Oh, damn
Game is toxic
Hey act man, do you watch jim? I don't know if he answered that
Hey act man, you know, these are supposed to last at least a three-hour bit of a break
Everyone's allowed to leave whenever they want. I think the only people who have to well, I think it's me
I think i'm the new person who has to stay like rags and wolf can even leave if they want
I don't know if I can I can go i'm curious if it'll ever be the case that like there's no one around
And i'm I have to just stay here alone
Oh, well
These sunglasses seem familiar act man. Are you rags non-fairy persona?
I'm just saying you don't necessarily see them both at the same time
Yeah, interesting
Only one was available
You
Efap featuring yachtsi croshaw next I
Would totally have mom, but I don't know that he ever does anything podcast. He was
Are you going wait, are you going to make a molar avenger endgame video?
Yes, but it was not going to be for a long time
I'd say the earliest I would start production is once the blu-ray comes out and even then i'm probably gonna be busy with tfa
So I know a lot of people want to see it, but it's not going to be for a while
Before then do you plan on like doing more you plan on doing more game of thrones stuff, too, right?
Yes, I would expect my game of thrones video will be done by the end of this month and then i'm back with tfa
Hopefully without interruption, but I was just talking to frickies today and I was like, oh no
What if far from home comes out and it's good and I want to praise it
Like tfa will be delayed again like it was bad
I mean if it's really bad and I I wouldn't want it to have to rage but it could happen
Hilda is a children's show. It has no holes
Is that a
That's an attribute of children's shows. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. All right
They're the most airtight pieces of writing we can get I guess I cheated on my wife. But anyways guys
Oh my god
All that matters is the pro god. Where is he at? Oh
Go check. Let me refresh
Do do do do then do me thoughts and prayers guys
Oh
What is it he's almost at a hundred thousand
Today see this is what I mean. I have never seen a boon fact that he's lost 10 of his total sub count
I don't think we've seen this since the fine bros
Yeah, but even I don't even think it was that bad for them. They were yeah
I mean they had a pretty big sub loss, but not that big
I thought they lost like more than a million subs
The fine brothers, I don't think so
Hold on. Let me see where they're at sounds about right because i'm pretty sure that that's blown over by now
We couldn't find this
It has but it was definitely blown over. Yeah, crazy. What did they lose in total? Does anyone does anyone in chat? No
Not not enough to be relevant. They're at 19. Oh, yeah, they they were always going to survive it
Yeah, well, that's interesting if they were like really interesting to watch. Yeah
Okay, uh
So I was talking with someone about the hyperspace kamikaze and they said it made complete sense
And it only logical that we didn't see it before because it's considered a war crime and that's why nobody ever did it
What a massive orphan gets a milk
That's that's a response for that. I guess I love that there's people who had ironically say like nobody thought of it before
It was against the rules
What do you mean
I like because i'm wondering like why didn't anyone like do that by accident because it seems like something you could easily do by accident
You just see them in return of the jedi when they're in that like kill box from the death star
Then he's like somebody hyperspace into the death star. And then they go like that's against the law
Wouldn't want to wouldn't want to upset the chaos the empire of law
Try to kill him, but okay
All that matters is that pro jared doesn't get iris the cat that's all I care about
I don't watch this content, but i'm assuming there's a cat that him and his wife
Pro jared looks like ichabod crane from the animated headless horseman movie
I've never seen that but that name
Yeah, I gotta find it i've never seen it but that I like the reference
That alone post a picture in the chat because I want to I don't know how to
spell ichabod crane
Oh my god, it kind of does. Hold on
Post it i'm gonna have to post it for that chat then as well. Otherwise, look at it
Projared is beyond saving true words have never been spoken
I
Lost them. Please reset and give us more. No, I was just like I literally
I'm pretty sure there's like six questions for wolf and some of them were too. Oh my god
It kind of does yeah
Little exaggerated but I like the idea that this guy would have watched this as a kid
He was just sold this the second he saw projared. He was like, oh my god. It's that guy
I
Saw some like live-action ones, but i'm thinking it's like no he doesn't look anything. Oh shit. I saw the cartoon
Thanks, i'm glad you like the promo mola, uh promo
For one of the meme videos we watched was that for the the person who was making the short film about you
And they showed you their drawing of wolf
Oh that could be it. Yeah
Okay. Sorry. So i'm not
Connecting names and faces and all of the tisms. I just
in the arms of a tonal to intellectually gain with me
In the arms of a tonal
Good half the speed
cuckoo baguette
Finally get to see you guys live learned about efap from the great british podcast. Love all you guys
We love all those guys. Hopefully we're all providing
hours of mindless
Nonsense that can entertain you in your day to day
Despo shit, you're gonna have to come on and eat
Do what i'm sorry you cut out you're gonna have to come on and even out the american
That's true. Oh my god. What do I keep cutting out versus the british?
Because otherwise it's just me and regs versus like eight of them eight eight of them. It's four
Hey eight four same difference. Yeah
Donald is like a kid trying to hit the word limit
A horse is a horse of cost of cost
Okay
What?
It's the reference to him saying fucking one of those did he i'm pretty sure he said of course. I fucking I don't know
Oh, yeah. Yeah
Do clayton fioriti's review of jurassic world full-on kingdom next efap. You can tell he's an idiot that turned his brain of white
While watching the film we've got a backlog that is in there
uh
We're not sure who will will get for I was thinking it would be pretty funny if we had cynic snacks back as guest
And we covered jurassic park full-on kingdom again because he was the one who came in for shinobi
And it would just be funny because remember how he watched the movie in prep and then we just didn't need to know anything about
the film for the whole stream
Shinobi was like talking about other things
But yeah, we'll do it again. We'll make him watch it again and finally talk about full-on kingdom
We really liked that movie me and wolf like
It was what really built. We built our channels on was celebrating
Greatness the new dress because the jurassic park was always really lame
You guys remember how lame that shit was? It was like oh, look at the cgi
Who's it looks like plastic? It was really good. I still can't believe because I was in
Colorado last year on vacation when
They came out in the okay because it came out before like two weeks earlier than here
Yeah, because we were supposed we were gonna do that together and then if I remember I started work on it two weeks for yours
And I tell you to slow down
Any more time
Well, no you you released yours before oh shit. No. Yeah, because I got all the copyright crap happened, didn't I?
yeah, and I watched like I watched like one version of it and um
I even remember I was like driving. Uh, I had like a three-hour drive south to meet up with friends that are down there
um
And I remember listening to it and I was like there's no possible way
That all of this happened and then I watched it and I was like oh and oh
It all happened. You know what's funny?
The current jurassic world video I have up it opens with me saying like don't fucking take it down again
Like it complies with every rule of everything and fuck off
Basically and a fan message be saying your opening says that all of your jurassic world videos have been taken down
I'd love to see a series of jurassic world videos. Could you perhaps link them? I'm like, oh, he probably thinks I've
No, it's all the same video feels bad I compile on my people in c hashtag
like
Umpling flame wars while being pegged by a tomato. Oh, I remember that was a thing
Getting finger wagged by drunk tonal because i'm a bad person is so hot
Virgin game of thrones versus the chad game of tones
in
I'd fucking take it easily. Can you imagine game of thrones, but you just replace netstock with tonaled loke and that's it
Run the season one with that
Who's that pokemon it's slowneld
I want to marry tonaled. I'll make a video about how i'm a great and terrible catch at 0.5 speed
Maybe that'll work as a make
Gotta try it. Why not?
Low of tolls tones conald soak people super chat this thing said
Bilbodal bloke again
But donald
Do you think video would adopt tonaled
Yes, I think we answered that actually i'm glad to see you all don't know what you'll talk really. Wait, what?
I'm glad to see all you you don't know what you're
I get it talking about oh, yeah. Yeah, I get it. I get it
Glad to be a part of this in my opinion
Uh, medea wars holiday special
Yeah
Game green like that imagine being europeides and writing a literally mass a literary masterpiece like medea only for it to be cucked
By a black guy in a fat suit hundreds of years later
I don't think that's how that went. But yeah, it would suck if that's how it went
I
No
There is absolutely no way medea is based off of some story by europeides
Is europeides even a real person
I don't fucking know
That doesn't sound real come on that can't be real I took it personally
I took it personally when he personally attacked me with his personal attack. See that yeah, that's gonna happen
You guys should have listened to jay better
Reference to what what did you tell?
Um, just generally i've bestowed much great wisdom upon you
Many great wisdom
Like I mean think about you know, you now all drink the rhino milk
You know all consult the time spiders if you'd listen to me like of everything i've said
Imagine how many more great wisdoms you'd have I don't not disagree
Euripides did write the play medea apparently. That's the thing
No
I i'm googling this and I swear to god. Okay. How do you spell europeides?
Just look at chat
You're oh europeides. Okay
Oh my god, the first thing that comes up is europeides medea something. Oh my god. No, no, no, no, no
Medea is centered on a wife's calculated desire for
You have got to be shitting me
Are you shitting me?
medea
Is based on a play by europeides. I don't know that that's true, but maybe
first performance 431 b.c
You have got to be kidding me
What
You've got to be kidding that's the first result
Oh, wow first thing that comes up
Oh, sorry, i'm sorry for your loss
I mean I didn't lose anything
It just baffles me that this is a thing that happened. You've lost your mind. I have blown a mind today
Medea is inevitable
Medea eternal medea is ancient. Oh my god
Tyler perry medea inspiration
Okay, hear me out I refuse to believe this loke wave he talks so slow
I feel like i'm entering a trance if simpson wave exists we can make a loke wave a reality
Oh, yeah, yeah, I always watch the fuck out of those videos
Yeah, take my money you lovely basses
The tone has three forms that we know of tonal bloke slowne old loke and super spinel bloke
Super saiyan each form is a multiplier of tonals in all of his power. Yeah
I think that
Those would be his forms and then he has family
toenail and uh daddled
The lore expanded for tonal in this episode quite significantly donald
Hey, by the way, if you want to laugh a little see the latest great game grumps twilight episode may 9th
You may only need to watch the first 20
I will now use that classic tonal bloke pick bayou and made to pixel art his face onto the slowpoke in-game sprite
Go for it
Have you guys ever considered revisiting famously bad movies refab movies like kingdom of the crystal skull the phantom menace for retrospect?
I mean
We watched wish upon so I think
The limits really have just been blown open. There's nothing we probably wouldn't consider watching
We're probably going to want to stick to like more fringe stuff
chief
But it's
But key fringe is variable. I'm really looking forward to releasing the next one the one after unicorn stuff. Oh, yeah
It's probably my favorite of the three that while i'm while i'm out
Oh, well, yeah
Possibly. I don't know we need to record more of them
Yeah
And dragon fire kill him brand westeros google, I don't know no one ever tried
So why the night king just stand this smirking? I guess he knew he just knew
But uh, they didn't know maybe maybe no one ever tried. He just like fell in some dragon fire once and that's how he knew
Because no one tried or he was like i'm fucked i'm gonna smile
He's like oh he lived
Bad thing is as good as good thing because bad thing isn't as good honk honk. I think that was a ton
Just got here. Where's the act mane? I'm afraid he's he's in the opening two hours. I think he's how far he made it
No, he made it like uh
He didn't make it
Passed about uh
An hour and maybe 30 minutes. We can't expect
Non efappers to make it past such time. I think we need
Kind of these people. Yeah, once the full episode is process slash put on moolah
Uh, there's a lot of act man. We we got a decent chunk of uh interaction out
Yeah, but we can't expect everybody to have that efapp stamina here. Mm-hmm moolah. Love the videos. Keep it up
Thank you. I shall just how many brown marks do you do?
Microsoft word slaps into log rods redundant and drawn out af scripts
I mean brown marks do you slap something done?
No, I got nothing for that one, uh, all I can assume is
I have lots of things that go into the scripts
Good elb from the videos we cover. Is that vaguely a response?
Drawn out as fuck script lock rods lokes. That's gotta be relation to tonal lock rod
I
Don't know I got nothing. I got nothing else for you
I don't need brown. Do you think brown mark?
So maybe the brown marks the reference to like poop and that's when tonal does write in the scripts. It's just poop on microsoft weird
I think I follow
Man, he's just he plugged in five of his own videos and then just generated it someone said brown marks is mark brown
Oh
Well, I think that might be a coincidence but
could be
Because he said he just said brown marks like that would be poop
I'm cutting out a lot. My bad. I will stick closer to the microphone
uh
TLJ question I had while listening to efap 13 it can be assumed the ships have artificial gravity if bombs fall normally on board
Wouldn't they have some velocity upon leaving the bomber?
Yeah, we went over that with um
Which efap was that that was a relatively recent one. I think we just we talked it was a hella greeter video
I think but we were just like if you have
One bomber release on the bottom of the ship out of gravity
Let's say it travels at one mile per hour
Then the final one at the top drops all the way through the ship and then goes out of gravity that shit's traveling like 10
times the speed
That's gonna crash right into the first one. Eventually relatively quickly. They're all gonna fuck up
Yeah
We should get bayouin on he draws a good massive wolf equals literal salt mine. Um, yeah, that bayouin could uh,
you do a
How could what could what could we do for that?
Because with theo we can be like we'll bring him on as our nerd like a law nerd for english and history
What could be we have to find someone talk about drawing stupid?
Or you could just uh bring him on to play the shirt game
Oh, yeah, fuck that would be great actually the the have ever played that with the wolf tko
No, oh that game will we have to do that for efap gaming actually that makes a lot of sense
We can't really extend that for hours though. It works for like things
Just have like an efap games where you do loads of mini games
Yes
That game needs to like a lot of people though
More than you'd normally have on an efap
Um, well, this is the thing the audience can fill right?
sure
Bayouin says
That is what you want a massive god of luff durgs speaking words. You can't understand
I I I bet I could understand you be wolf and rags would struggle. You're like, what are you saying scots?
You know you hate them
Oh, hey, they're white they're okay
Wow
Uh, son, let me tell you the great video game crash wolf. Say wolf say tonal's dad in that voice you do
Tonal's dad
Tell me tonal's dad tonal's dad
Tell me about the video game crash of 83 daddled who's tone's grandpa oldman tone or papaloke
I like oldman tone
Every tonaled a substitutory pause
Uh, wasn't the true ending for shadow of war locked? Oh, yeah, we did talk about that
I find your lack of hate of endgame disturbing but tonaled unites us all
I'm I put my hand up. I think there's loads of floors of endgame, but I really liked it subjectively. What can I say?
yeah, uh
I I guess so I could just put this shit to rest I want to be getting questions about it for freaking ever
I really liked violet evergarden
I that doesn't mean I don't have issues with it
I mean i'll tell you right now the first three episodes are
Ash and it's really only because I saw a video from someone else saying the rest of the season was good that I even plowed through it
Oh
Like the first three episodes are legitimately like what's happening here?
Why and why am I wasting my time and then after that it's like, okay, it's good
Even then there's some issues
I have I like it
It has issues
There we go. There you go guys. It's over. It's done. It's dead
I've uh full out three sold its ending full out three. Yeah people referencing. Um
the broken steel
What you got any of you guys play that the broken steel dlc for fallout three was like a better ending than
fallout three's ending
It was dlc
I I don't even think I finished fall
I did and I really liked mothership zeta in all of its insanity and then
Point lookout was awesome. The fallout three's dlc's are pretty damn awesome. Am I right chat?
I reckon chat's gonna be very much in favor of that
Uh, I support hate crimes. What a weird super chat. Anyway mauler. I support hate crimes
Wow
That guy tried to get me to say I support hate crimes even though I do actually support hate crimes
I'm pretty sure you can probably cut out what I just said a couple times to help an argument there
That'll be great. Have you ever heard of the tragedy of darth tonaldus the loke?
Paxed nalda
Is it really a tragedy though?
toedale loki toedale locket
Why can't the mandalorian just be about boba fat painting a fat helmet silver and calling it a new character seems lazy
What do you guys think?
I got one a fucking clue. I know when that gets released though. Everyone's like ball. What do you think of mandalorian ball?
And i'll just be like do I have to watch this?
But that's like the way their armor looks in all of the portrayals of them
They've had like armor of that shape. Oh, well this I guess this person's saying they took it and painted it silver
I don't know what it actually looks like. It looked better than that
I have not
It looks it looks different enough from boba fat
It's like it is basically silver boba fat, but it's like it's just a mandalorian
Okay
Uh put it in the chat
Guys i'm serious with this. We need to get tonald on efap
Do you I don't think it's feasible because he's never gonna want to come on here if he finds out what we've done
It's more like uh boba fat than I remembered but
I would love it if he had if we could get him on. Oh, yeah
Donald tripling pubg didn't just die. It was murdered
Oh, yeah, that does look like boba fat, but
yeah
Yeah, it would have been cooler to have maybe done some color there, but I don't know. I guess that's what they're going for
they wanted to be like a dull sort of
Aesthetic that's just what they look like. That's this is from the new mandalorian armor looks like
Yeah, oh, yeah, but i'm commenting on the color not the shape
I hope they don't use like the mentally retarded
Pseudo language that karen has made up for terrible public commando books
They will
Uh, don't acknowledge karen. Travis don't acknowledge her existence. She's such a bad writer scholars will spend decades deciphering tones words
I'm just glad this is archived so that scholars can see our attempts and maybe work from our workings, you know
Vanille get on it everybody
Like a food or something
I want the sly cooper games as well as the ratchet and clank games on pc. I do too. That would be awesome
ratchet and clank or sly or jack
Uh, my favorites ratchet and clank
Jack is amazing
Yeah, but there are no other exceptional answers
Fly is pretty cool. They're all pretty good. Honestly
Efap what video editing softwares and mics do you I love how me and wolf's answer is exactly the same and then that's bullshit
What's your microphone?
So i'm using an at 2020
Um, and you use vegas
Yes, I use vegas. So me
Fucking wolf death bullshit and j all uses the same editing software. Jay. What's your microphone?
I've got a road, uh anti-usb not the anis anymore. I replaced that a while ago because it was bad
To be fair I am, uh making a very honest effort at learning premiere and after effects
So and then you can teach me
Yes, I could i'd be happy to I will use you. Whoa
Yay
Uh 80 2020 use vegas. There you go. That's the short answer
Yep, john wins wait wrong stream
I
I think he's bashing this on the start of the great
Basing this on the start of the great depression and the rush on the banks and how it became a self-fulfilling prophecy
What is the thing? I can kind of understand, right? So if for example
Like oh, no, the stocks are dropping in
Tomatoes and oh god i'm gonna sell my stock and then some else goes like I sell in the stock
They must be dropping i'm gonna sell my stock and everyone sells this stock and then the stock of tomatoes just plummets
And when it never was if you know what I mean, like there's some logic to that
But he the way he fucking delivered it was so funny
That is the grace of tonald I think
He's our morpheus us. Why is the gaming market crashing tonaled? He's starting to believe
Donal donald trope I think he's talking about greek style prophecy
That's the thing it's the delivery it's the delivery it's hilarious. He needs a writer. No, he needs to not him
He doesn't need anyone that's true actually he just needs to keep doing exactly what he's doing because
If we get someone to get him to do something good
Well, then what are we gonna do? We can't cover him if he makes good content covers. Yeah, that's the thing
It's all like I think he could really benefit from just not uploading every day
But then at the same time it's like you said it's like otherwise we wouldn't get the hilarious
He doesn't upload every day. Does he is every three days or so?
That's like how he changed. He was like i'm not gonna upload as much anymore, but it's just as terrible
It's still really
Donald doesn't truly speak any language. These are just our feeble minds trying to interpret his thoughts directly
He makes the aliens from arrivals seem like neanderthals
That's beautiful
Hi, how are you? Oh?
What a kind super hi
That's like the most wholesome super chat we've ever had. I'm doing well. How are you corner? I hope you're doing
It's even got a wholesome name. When are you getting ryan johnson on efap?
Never holy shit. Do you know ryan johnson this whole time just imagining if ever I did i'd be like ryan
Do not look at chat
Okay
He's like i'm gonna just pull it up. Okay, never mind close that
In fairness chat like even at its worst
Is probably what he gets on twitter on a daily basis. Mm-hmm. Probably worse on twitter chat
What would you say if ryan johnson was here?
Yeah, chat just type in like what you would say the ins
And then our watch begins
I can't wait for this. I feel like we're about to see a bunch of swastikas. Oh, jesus. I don't know if I can put fag
Claxes in fag
Sup I roundhead this stream is pretty tamed fag fag guys
Why just why
You round-headed buffoon you're such a massive riot you bastard ask him the orphan question
What?
Destroy the child corrupt them all
I hate you. You killed star wars for good. Hello and word the vietnamese ryan
He still ain't relevant
Ryan is so vanilla vanilla massive vanilla old fad boy. Oh my god. I bad everyone
reference
Wolf I am talking about the manga. It's top notch
Zooming that's relating to
Here's the thing with attack on titan is like it's really airtight and it's relatively well written
but
It's just what happens
After the season three arc is done is it gets crazy
And it really makes all the urgency of the preview of everything that came before like nothing
It's uh, it's like the truman show but with zombies and it it's like oh, well, that's kind of shit
It's not that it's necessarily badly written it's just that it's really lame
All
Right, then you guys heard of the film gob video where he accuses the rusos of ripping off bvs
With infinity war and endgame because of slightly similar cinematography
Oh, I I got that. I got tweeted someone saying that i'm like
Surely like that's just I I got tweet. I got a tweet of that and I was like
I don't know what you think
it was like
it was uh
Do you think it was a joke or I I was just like that's clearly someone's like that's the kind of take
You wouldn't see anywhere else and it's like oh one person thinks that there's no way anyone else thinks that
I'll have to give it a shot. Maybe it's defabable unless it's like
a parody or something
Like really the rusos ripping off bvs
Where would they rip off who would rip off bvs? Exactly exactly
But then again, we did this this is a serious thing exists. I don't know if you guys know this but there's like a huge
Loud portion of people who love zach snyder's dc movies
Yes, i'm very aware of that
They like they're like rabidly into it to the point where it's like if you didn't like it, you didn't fucking get it
like
This is why I want to cover the dc movies on efap eventually just to be like look how tizzy me this movie is
Okay
Bvs would be a great one and just as well. We've got well, this is the thing i've got in the backlog
There's like videos
I think they titled something like like why you're wrong about bvs or whatever and
The problem is i'm gonna have to watch those movies again, which oh
It's gonna be too hard to keep from laughing. I mean I watched captain marvel. I can do that. Yeah
Yeah
I love it when someone I think someone says something like uh captain marvel may be bad
But it's not worse than anything in the dceu and i was like
Yeah, it is
Yeah, I was easily that but I mean fuck I would watch justice league over captain marvel any day justice league makes me laugh my ass
Have you seen shazam now? I have not I haven't either how southpaw said that shazam gets really
It gets really it gets really tisney. Oh, it kind of does but it's still really fun
I
Don't I don't know anything about it i'm not
Interested in it, but
Apparently he's making a video on
And he says it goes like full aquaman at some point. I was like, I don't know if I want to see it then
Wait someone sent me a screenshot on twitter. Is this is this real?
Mr. Mattica is covering the fall of jared
What?
That can't be true
Is that photoshopped?
I thought he was I mean look look what's behind it that definitely
Well, that just could be that could be mattica's tismy fucking presentation though. I don't know if that's actually
Plus he's already covering another jared. Why would he be covering pro jared? I mean, why would he cover this jared over?
Yeah, yeah full of wait full of jared is an actual video
Okay, I i'm assuming that's not
Yeah, i'm assuming no it doesn't no it doesn't oh, it's just a foot. Oh, sorry
So yeah, mr. Mattica has a stream I guess right now called the fall of jared, but it's about pro jared
Yeah, and someone's photoshopped. Oh, okay
That was that was funny. I it would seem for a second there. I thought that was real and I was like
Like whoa, but yeah, this doesn't seem like the kind of jared
They put cover they put the chat from
Efap in there then as well because he's got long man bad and efap gang
Yeah
I guess that makes sense. Okay. I get that. That was such a strong meme that I took it seriously
Yeah, that was yeah, that was that went deep
um
It's a good one. Yeah, no, i'm proud proud of the person who came up with it
Um, also beowyn said that there's another meme along the way before hopefully we go. We've got another like 15 super chat
So hopefully that's enough
Uh, j. I will fight you on kotor unless your problem is the combat. That's understandable
My main problem is the combat. Yeah
Oh, you won't have to fight this guy
I have other problems with it. So no
Your face is a nebulous claim
But i've not got far enough into the story to know if I have problems with that yet. So
That's
Okay, we'll show them in a second listening to the super chats about halo
I think odst has merit odst is my personal favorite, but it does have some issues. Definitely
I like odst
But yeah, well my biggest issue with odst is the
It's price
because it was advertised as having new multiplayer when in reality that multiplayer is just
a couple extra maps for halo 3
And it was priced way more than it should have been but otherwise it's a really great game
People seem to think I don't like it for
I don't know why they don't think I like it. You hate it as much as you love violet evergarden and claim. It's a mess
I just want clarification
I I don't think I could possibly compare those two because they're completely different and that is why you fail
I
Feel there is a children's show. It has no plot holes. I remember reading that I really like that just
The implications because it was the children say it has no plot holes. It's great. The uh
Like teletubbies probably had no plot holes
I think it did
I don't remember. I haven't watched it since I was like four. Do you reckon I haven't watched it at all
Okay, I see look at that if I could clone myself
I would like force him in a basement to make deep critiques of teletubbies
Like I like keep track of the lore
And pay as much attention to each of the things that happen in each episode to try and draw together a world buildings
All I remember is uh
The weird son that was like a child laughing and it really creeped the shit out of me
And then there's like this picture. Have you seen the black and white
Picture and it looks like a horror movie. Yeah. Yeah, dude, you could easily make a great horror movie out of teletubbies
My god
Someone's got to do it now. It just opens with a ranger's movie like a guy wakes up with amnesia in the teletubby world and he's
Like the sun rises it's just a baby face and he's like oh jesus
That would be a terrifying world living talk about evil dead with snacks baller
We've we've done it like twice on their podcast just thinks evil dead's bad and he's a wrong. He's a wrong massive
That's how that way
The uh get please rewind on as a guest great stream guys. I've heard of please rewind
I believe I follow him on twitter and he follows me, but we will get around to it. There's so many guests
Totally gonna get to them
Because act man has been we're supposed to have had him on since like when wolf was having him on on his post
When was that wolf was like 10 years ago?
That was in like what?
September of last year probably feels like a long massive ago
I've been here. Oh wait, it would have been just before you went on your break wasn't it?
Yeah, I think that was in september. Does that oh, okay. I was gonna say like does that mean it's literally been a year, but no
I've been here after watching the last jedi and I'm really hating it
I looks up the last jedi sucks and I wanted you ever scenes. I watched you ever scenes
what?
Like i'm just gonna copy and paste that into discord
Okay, because maybe i'm drunk and i'm reading it wrong, but that does say I looked
After watching the last jedi in hating I looks up the last jedi sucks and I watched you ever see
Ever since those were okay. Okay. Um
Is this tonaled?
Well, it's it's probably a protege
Coming along they don't quite there tonaled. It takes a long time to really I still can't believe that people like actually took your
Your channel description where that said uh, you were a protege of tonaled and took it seriously
Yeah, I don't know if I said this I should say that on defap
So if you go to my youtube channel about section, it says i'm a film connoisseur and I i'm a film
Analyticist I think and that i'm a protege of tonaled look
Um people who don't like me screenshared it and said look at this guy. He considers himself a film connoisseur
I was like, did you read the rest?
And then I retweeted it like fucking 500 people were just laughing their ass off the idea that you took film
analyticist
Like is a serious thing
Read it in a brooklyn accent
I can't I can't make a brooklyn accent
Don't like an ass out of myself trying
What does he want you to read that quote in a brooklyn accent?
Yeah, it's like it's difficult to like yeah, yeah, thinking about it in my head I can't totally
Since now, but I can't replicate that which one's the brooklyn accent?
Uh think
You ever seen the movie ted yes, yeah think uh the bear's accent
Think uh the bear's accent
Seth mcfarlane plus
It's just seth mcfarlane, isn't it? Is it?
Well, seth mcfarlane has like a pretty
Uh, yeah, he talks more like he's very proper fine
Look brian brian is pretty much seth mcfarlane, right?
Yeah, yes
I need to watch family guy again to be able to do those impersonations, but uh
I hope that satisfies that request that we didn't do it all. Uh, i've been wolf watch
I'll know old noah zero on netflix old noah zero
Nope haven't seen it
They said it's all four so
Um, why would I watch and then watch dirty?
was
I've never heard that
Hey, you guys ever see star wars sc 38 reimagined. It's pretty cool
I have no idea what that
Neither have I or do I
Uh, they're good, but new vegas is king fallout
Yeah, i've heard that from a lot of people fallout new vegas dlc is better than three
But the dlc for three were great except for operation anchorage only the rewards at the end were worth it
I know what that is. That's it with a
Steel ingots or whatever right you get ingots. I believe in operation anchorage
I see 38 is the recreation of the obi-wan vader fight. It's really good
Oh, like is it finished now? Oh that cgi one
Oh, it's got live action in it
Well, hold on let me look it up because I think I might know which one you're talking now
I see 30. Oh, that's the pit. Okay. I'm clearly bad with my
Um, I see 38 brings up an indian, dude, I see 38. Oh sc 38
Ah, they're right star wars reimagined. Oh, right. It's uh, it takes clips from the cgi. Oh, yeah, i've seen it's pretty cool
Uh
Uh, hey, hey doll. Hey do hey doll mary doll ring a ding dong dildo. Oh, no, wait dillo
Hey doll
I don't
battle all the willow tom bomb jolly tom tom bomber dill
dillo
What if you think prophecy is literal then you don't think john is azora high the bleeding star
He was born under was a sword made from a meteorite covered in blood. That's as figurative as it gets
Um
So so yeah, but this is the thing that by that logic then aya wouldn't be azora high
Like saying that she wasn't born under anything
Our whole point is the to extend it to the point where aya makes sense as azora high
Is like ridiculous and then people like yeah, but you're taking it too literally
I'm like at that point. You're just not taking anything for anything
And yet you got to connect it somehow
You can make the connections with john and besides to not reach every single requirement of the prophecy like you reach six out of seven
for example
You're like, oh, okay. That makes enough sense. And there's probably some interpretation of one element that I missed
All the prophecy is incomplete the idea of just being like a randy who just jumps up to him and stabs him
Just like I don't know if I can get some of the sword makes it
Not to mention john did come back to life and that was like one of the prerequisites of the azora high prophecy
Uh, would you have critical drinker on he's a scotsman who likes maula you mentioned you by name in the videos
We've uh, we talked about him. We've seen one of his videos. We watched in a watch together
He is welcome to come on. Maybe I can fetch him while wolf is gone
He's a funnyman
One of my oh words dude
Oh words, oh wait, that is
offensive
What does it stand for?
I don't know
Um, which brings us to the end of the super chats have two memes. I know we just got another super chat in oh my goodness
y'all ever
Do this is no high quality content that app is
You
All right finding
Haters
I love that nemo's just a little version of tonaled with like a navy cap on
And we got daddled and uh, what was it todaels toto
Um one that cannot not be loved
You
Yes
But everyone is saying it needs more time for art
I see 10 minutes and minutes. What do we do for 10 minutes?
Go bleep blubble bleep blubble until everyone is entertained. So that's gonna entertain them. Will it can you prove this?
Try it try it and see what happens mauler. Have you seen the it chapter?
No, I actually thought I would save watching it and rags would and we could watch that
Then we could watch the sonic trailer and then they said there was a new toy story trailer when we last spoke to jeremy
I haven't seen so we'll do those three for nefap mini. There you go. Okay, okay
Have you not seen the sonic trailer?
No deliberately so that I could save it so that my fans and rags have wait rags has seen it
Yeah, he he said that during the geeks and gamers game. I think he did
He definitely made it seem like he did oh because his whole thing was saving it for efap as well
But he talked about how tismi sonic looked. Yeah. Well, he's he's seen screenshots
Everyone's seen that one screenshot where he looks
The nicholas cage sonic as well
Oh my god, I saw this poster where it's from like sonic's perspective and it's got his like creepy long legs
Like stretch them and it's like how did anyone possibly think this was going to be a good idea?
I believe in magic. I'm not a good speller. Sorry mauler geese
No, i'm just confused
When are you going to watch backstroke of the west I don't I don't know
Wait, was he trying to say geez and he said geese
I think that's the joke, but I like it to think that that was an accident. It's funnier
Uh, but yeah backstroke of the west is not not something that we don't want to see
It's just that i've got a little thing keeping track of all the potential efap movies. We're gonna do it's already at like 37 entries
There's teeth on there. No
It should be but I can't do that to our audience
Yes, you can they like watching funny stupid girls wish away all of their people's deaths or
Brie larson movies. Great. Are you saying that teeth isn't a funny movie?
Yeah, i'm saying it's not a brie larson movie and it's not a movie in which a girl wishes for things
If teeth starred brie larson, yes
Okay
Oh somatic dragon said teeth isn't that great
Uh, it's it implying anyone thinks it's a good
I don't know man. You did say violet ever garden was a masterpiece flawless
Okay, I i've never said anything about teeth in you said teeth was a flawless masterpiece
No, it didn't
I've never I don't think i've ever spoken about you just said it it's live like jay is pretty much the first
Minder i've had that teeth exists like five years. It is the greatest film ever made
No, well it from a certain perspective, I guess from the perspective of films i've seen it's the best one
So of the four films you've seen he's seen three of garfield puss in boots shrek 4 and teeth teeth is the best
He's also seen fellowship of the ring let that sink in oh, yeah, yeah i've seen that
It takes a true sonic fan to fucking that trailer
To what
I don't think any of us ever said we were sonic fans
like I grew up with sonic but like
Sonic's been so shit for like a decade. It's all like what did you expect, you know?
Liar you watched all the long long
Oh, they're talking about the the like the gum the e-man made like a
Thing for I haven't seen all of them now, but I also haven't seen all of the efap like French
Weird university videos. There's probably a gold mine amongst that. Oh, man
I love you guys. You're great. Thank you. James more. James, by the way
James is like in every single channel. Um, he was in jess and milestones chat and I was like, wow
I saw him in fenna's chat the other
James, you know all of the people you come from
James an alien. Do you think he just waits for every single person? Do you think?
There's like 10 james moors and they're all really rich and they all just run around they all agreed to be
Kind of like uh, the james wise james wise, sir
There's a whole thing about that could easily be james moors entry into the lore at this point
That lore page is coming. It's going to be big
James wise I don't even know what his name is. Or am I thinking of something completely different just in y
Justin y that's who it is
It's not at the j it's the same thing you could watch tusk
Tusk is pretty dumb
I haven't seen that
It's a kevin smith movie that everybody's really excited for and then they watched it
Why would someone be excited for a kevin smith movie because once upon a time he made
Clerks and for some reason everyone thinks that means he makes constantly
Wolf what's wrong with my a-hole?
Do I honestly have to answer that yes, it's empty
What do it's empty? Oh jay the next one's for you if you want to read it out
Jay, why do I cry when my dog likes peanut butter out of my butthole?
Oh
Why was that directed at me? Well, you're the expert
Uh, you might just I I I don't know that's like left me speechless
Uh, maybe try like something that's less coarse than peanut butter just regular butter
Because that butter's not coarse. What are you talking about? You can get course peanut butter. Why would you get course peanut butter?
No, what are they saying?
It's disgusting. It's like if it's this chunky with the peanut butter
Right. So if you're using peanut butter with chunks in it, that might be your problem
Ew
Why don't you get peanut butter with chunks in it? Why would you put peanut butter in your butt and have your dog?
That wasn't what wolf was proposing though
Yeah
Wait, that's all your assumption that being Azor Ahai means killing the night king. Are we really getting to that point?
Yeah, fine. None of the prophecies mean anything fine
Yeah, all of it means everything I was like James Moore. I'm 100 willing to come on to the podcast
I hate that guy. I hate him too. Have you been on podcasts before James?
Mr. Mr. I donate to people I pay my way onto podcasts. Have you heard about that guys?
Did it to the great british podcast he did it to the
What are the podcasts are there outside of the great british podcast and even are there any?
Uh, I've seen him on other streams not necessarily pod. No, I was just asking are there any other podcasts?
Sartana cast that's a podcast
Hey guys in chat tell us what podcast do you watch outside of efap and egb
High council that's one. Oh, yeah, I went through the drunken peasants
Oh, well, I mean i'm actually curious about what they're actually watching rather than
Misfits
The official podcast even crowder world-class bullshits in high council
The games
The inebriated plebs our daughter cast
Three of westeros that's a podcast joe rogan joe rogan. Yeah still stream official pod
Sleepy cabin. I remember that. Hello internet. Oh, yeah razor cage
Exo zone. I know that one as well. That's nidrotic. So
Doomcock I guess has a
Podcast. Well, this is the thing. I was just being facetious. I know fucking basically everyone has a podcast today
Does anyone not run a podcast of some kind or at least did at one point if you aren't running a podcast? What are you?
Podcasts are how you evolve as a critic h3 h3. Do you think it's just going to evolve into podcast two eventually?
Oh, yeah, uh
the incredible salt mine is
uh, the quartering bearing and
Count ancula together. They have a podcast called tism
Um, you know, I was always like man, I would have loved that for our name
But i'm afraid efap just kind of trumped it and that's top faps
I I love how I was I just looked up tism on google images when I found that picture. I sent you the other day
Yeah
It turned out to be a real band
I've been listening to the fellowship of the ring audiobook. It's pretty good six hours till I move on to the next one wolf
What are your thoughts on tom bombadil not being in the movie?
This is going to be an unpopular opinion at least a lot of book readers, but I don't
care at all
Like tom bombadil was such a small part
And did very little
That his involvement in the book could have been taken out and not really changed a whole lot
But
How dare you I actually kind of forgot he was even in the book until
The ass end of return of the king where gandalf was like i'm gonna go hang out with tom and I was like who's tom
And I was like, oh right tom bombadil. His thing is that he's immune to the power of the ring, right?
Yeah, and he kind of just goes singing around the forest with his
With his like elf girlfriend for some reason. I remember alex saying something like it kind of fucks with the film if he exists in it
Yeah, it would
I I don't really care for his involvement at all and
If someone in the chat pointed out he really was
Building and beyond the world building he had no contribution to anything
Taking about really didn't damage it in any way
Plus the kind of uh
re uh reused tom bombadil part in
Two towers because you know that scene where mary and pippin are getting like swallowed by the tree
In fellowship that happens to mary pippin sam and frodo and tom bombadil is the one that comes in
He's like hey trees fuck off and and they do
So they kind of took a piece from tom bombadil and reused it
It
You guys play killer instinct I played the killer instinct on game boy back
Game boy color back fucking ages ago. That was the only interaction
I ever had a killer instinct and then it went on this game boy off color
I sure I tried to play the uh xbox
Why do I keep cutting out? Okay here here we're going to uh
What is it singapore?
I don't think that's the problem
There we go. There we go. Thanks. I don't think it was singapore. That was
No one else was it was just
Well
There's no other options aside from singapore. You're the bad man. We've never used
Well, singapore always fixes it
Anyway, I tried to play uh the xbox one killer instinct
And I was really bad at it
That's all I can say
I played the killer instincts on the super nintendo's
I
Wasn't even alive then
Okay, now you got to do your killer instinct store
um
I I don't know what you're talking about
You want to just make it up make you make it up make it up completely just so the audience think you care
I played killer instinct on
The rubik's cube
And I finished all 17 levels it was 18
Oh, there must have been it was one of them a bonus level true family
Uh, I killed seven out of nine of the instincts no killer instinct
Yeah, and I killed seven nights of it
Properly
You just said I enjoyed playing it that would have been enough
I enjoyed playing it. Oh sweet dude. Awesome. Yeah, I played it and I enjoyed it and other people played it and also enjoyed it
Are you looking forward to playing chapter two?
No, they never released it
I literally only listened to this podcast
So james said I literally only listened to this podcast in the great british podcast and i've only given hundreds to mauler rags wolf
Jesse milestone cj tosspot efap efap gaming and tg
bp, I think
Wait, so it's still quite a long list listen to jesse milestones podcast
Who's jesse of a hellstone he is a
Blogger I guess would be the format and she talks about media. She finds annoying including stalls
Okay, and she's the one I was on a podcast with
With a couple people and when I was ranting about game of thrones, she was like mauler. It's never been good. I was like
I don't like when people say it's never been
It's never been good. Nope bay one's done
And in finnish, I think I think jesse ended up saying that she was just never that invested because of uh
She was way more of a book fan for a long time
Uh, and so came into the show
So
It's a common we're nearly there
So where i've got the stream up so I can see the chat. It's defaulting to 1 4 4 p
And I don't know why
Why is my internet like this? It's all you're allowed
Because you live in the disgusting britain land. Oh my god, is this I think this drawing is a reference to j's stream
Oh, is it that one?
Oh, because I oh my god, it is oh god
Ooh, what are these shapes? Please be passive
Beat beat calorie intake required
That is all oh
Subnautica and jj biggs as well
jj biggs
Well technically this morning. That was my stream and it was i'm confused. I need to know the lore of this
So I was playing subnautica below zero where that creature was and
I was wondering since it's an early access
If because that creature in the first game is like a passive creature that doesn't attack you
But I was wondering if they were using it as just like a placeholder model for a creature that would attack you
So I was like, please be passive
and uh
Then my my machine was like please
Can eat some food you're gonna starve to death
Did it genuinely look like that?
It did well without the tits
Yeah, that's just that's just bayouins touch
Yeah, I always have to ask because it's like
I don't I don't know sometimes it might be
You know the Midas touch that has um, that's really cool fucking art but
The Midas touch where everything he touches turns to gold everything bayouin touches turns to tits
Yeah, exactly
Um people are telling me to upload the whole live stream. That's actually what i'm working on right now
And it's probably why my internet is so slow
Oh, there you go
And uh, yeah, I think that means we we we have reached the end of efap number 34
as I said
35 will be on monday and it'll be a most ridiculous time
You are never going to be happy with when we're gonna stream it, but you'll always be able to catch it on moolah
When it's done, there'll be rags and a mysterious wonderful guest
plenty of fun
Um, thank you all for watching. Thank you for the kind donations and of course
Wonderful fan art once again. Have we had an episode without like amazing fan art?
The person like yeah
Oh, when was the big intake of memery was it?
Um, it was it was like the kylo band stuff, right?
The seriously, I think so
I feel like that was when it first started to really kick off. I don't remember
I don't remember which episode it was specifically, but I know that the bayouin art started with that weird alien. Yeah
Sunrise sunset what a wonderful world we live in. So, uh, yes, um, we will catch you all in in the whenevers
Um, because we're gonna go to sleep
Oh
Yeah
Goodbye to wolf you'll never again from yeah
Yeah, I i'm gonna be climbing mountains and stuff. So if I never come back, it means I fell off of one
We will
We'll do the iron man funeral for you
everyone who has ever guessed it on efap standing over
We'll push a little boat with a pizza on it
It'll it'll be uh your hand focused into a middle finger and it'll say uh
proof that wolf hated
game of thrones
I don't know we'll get tonal to show up as well at your funeral
He'll be the dick fury
Dad, and he'll just come in at the end
He'll just come in and he'll like put his hands behind his back and be like, all right
This is like the most meme thing that's ever begging to be made
Someone please make that it's gonna take a lot of work
Oh, yes, uh, it was just like the profile pictures on the faces
Oh
Quite a lot of work, but it'd be really cool
Actually gonna need the hd version of that first though. So you have to wait for those memes
Bye wolf. Don't
Yeah, no get high don't die
Um, but yes not gonna get high but I will try not to die
That'll be a good and you can come back and we will talk about I don't know like star wars and game of thrones
Jenna says as wolf is lowered into the grave. All you hear is goodbye on my end words
Like wait, is he alive just I don't care if i'm alive
Uh, it'll be like uh anchorman 2 for brick's funeral and then brick just shows up like I won't
I'm more than wolf at j miss drags, but thanks. All right, and that is the end. Thank you all so much
And we shall I shall see you monday?
Goodbye
Goodbye
The racist sludge
I know that's why I said it
