If it does, I'll just tell you, you're a bad man.
Just tell me as soon as possible so I can unplug it and plug it back in.
I will. I'll see you soon.
But yes, we are, we are maybe live.
Oh, my God.
Oh, really?
I just smashed every fresh bone.
Oh, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
I'm going to want to play Battlefield before the fifth one.
Well, well, before the fifth one, I mean, there's there's it went downhill
way before number five.
Your opinion.
Battlefield four was really great.
Battlefield one was a downgrade, but it was solid.
Oh, Alex is like a purist.
He would take it all the way back to like Battlefront one,
as in the first one or two.
Yeah.
You didn't like that.
Wait, wait, you didn't like Battlefield three, Battlefield Bad Company
two or Battlefield four.
But Company two is basically the downfall of the battlefield.
Oh, I don't think I'm going wrong.
Didn't Ryan love that game, though?
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, right, right, right.
You know that I don't think that you know that I'm saying that that game
is not as far as I'm aware, criticized typically.
Oh, well, whatever.
You'll lose all your stock immediately because Chats probably gonna be like,
oh, my God, how could he not like this amazing game?
It goes to save a cold duty, right?
Like everyone calls the end of different positions.
A lot of you would call it probably fair that.
Do you ever like Call of Duty? I can't remember.
Ah, yeah, but it's.
Oh, are we talking about Call of Duty?
We've got to wait for everyone to pour in anyway.
All right. All right. OK, sorry.
Sorry. It's like I'm looking at the title.
Like where does it say Call of Duty, Cal?
It doesn't have to say it.
Do it, God.
No, it's not. It's not.
It's not the itinerary. I didn't sign up for this.
You're not really mean to talk about video games, too.
As if you wouldn't want to do that.
I know, I know.
Keep Rags out.
Everyone's like, where's Rags?
He's on a holiday. It's not my fault.
Oh, yeah, I probably should have mentioned that.
I don't know if you do, Gary, or not that Rags would have.
I didn't even know that.
You didn't know now.
It's OK. Well, told me I'm afraid he's not.
He's did he not tell you?
He told me he said he's going to be away from Friday.
No, Sunday till Friday.
As in, yes, two days ago till the Friday coming up.
He either didn't tell me or he did tell me, and I forgotten it.
Well, you didn't get your one or the other postcard.
You're a bad person out of Rags.
Oh, well, I went on holiday.
Rags is on holiday.
Next is going to be mauler.
And then there will be no Efap.
I will demand that you all Efap on a different channel.
I would never want to stand in the way of the great Efap progress.
It's all right.
We're getting it in position so that you can do Efap from, you know,
an undisclosed location from the Philippines.
That's really on the Philippines to explore more law.
Oh, God, James Moore's already here.
James Moore already wants to do the things that happen.
So I gave you the thing now.
Just give me a heads up for it.
Absolutely good.
My good man just will do Discord PMs or whatever.
So Nerderodic, to put this into perspective,
since you won't know the lore of James Moore, he is a he's
I'm pretty much convinced he's Bill Gates and he just loves this show
for some reason, because he has an ungodly amount of money.
And I see him in like literally every stream on the face of YouTube
giving people money.
And last week he bought me a Nintendo Switch and two games.
And now he wants to do it for mauler and Rags, too.
The Efap benefactor, that is good.
That is a good thing to have.
It's like he's going to give us money to do.
Keep the crazy shit.
Keeping the show going.
I was so high the last like two nights ago playing Mario Kart.
And I got to tell you, like when you're high and you see all those colors,
it messes with your head, man.
I was in another world that does it open a gateway for you?
It did.
There were literal gateways on some of the maps I played.
So I was like, oh, I was listening to the Joe Rogan and Alex Jones.
Oh, well, Joe Rogan's podcast with Alex Jones on it.
And then there's one about, you know, doing DMT and open it,
open up gateways and that.
And I was like, oh, my God, this is too much.
I mean, it doesn't matter what your politics are.
That podcast is hilarious.
I know. I would say they loved it.
The only slight regret I have for being sober is I don't do acid
during these days, so I can play video games
and the movies are better than ever.
And I did acid once and it was not a good experience.
I don't think I've ever.
No, I've never had a bad trip, but I've had many, many back in the 80s.
But you got to make sure you're around like good friends, people you trust.
And yeah, after you fry for about eight hours
and then you feel like shite afterwards and you feel like you've known for 10 years.
You ever watched Alien on it?
It's a really bad experience to alien.
Jesus. I watch aliens.
It's a horrible experience.
Oh, what do you prefer, Nudratic? Alien or aliens?
Aliens. Oh, I feel like they're rare people who prefer aliens to alien.
I'm one of those people.
We apparently have very similar tastes in a lot of things.
It's very set for the expanse, but well, you know,
not everything, which is actually a good way to say.
Hello, everyone.
This is Efap 39.
We nearly to 40.
And then, well, if you got some special plan for Fiverr, right?
Sure. Yep. There we go. Good, great.
So yeah, 39 with our special guest is not Rags.
He's not here today.
That's that's the big shame of it.
He's on some form of a holiday slash breakaway,
but he should be on the next episode, which I think will be Sunday.
I don't know. Because we had to delay this one
because I was struck by lightning and that sort of thing
can even bring me down, I'm afraid.
And I needed a day to recuperate and set everything back up.
But yes, our guest today is Mr.
Gary from Nudratic. How do you do?
I I do well, I do very well this morning.
Well, it's morning here.
I don't know about you guys, but a little groggy in the evening already.
But no, everything's fantastic.
Happy to be here.
Ready to defend the expansive crap on other things.
And yeah, generally be here for a very long time.
I drink my tea and my coffee. I'm ready to go.
You like coffee together?
Why not? I did tea that I did coffee.
Oh, OK. You're one of those people. Yes.
The undesirables.
I mean, it's like the undersiring America plus Britain.
We got two and two today, so it makes complete sense.
Even the odds.
Yeah, it's like something's in my throat.
That's annoying.
Either way, this is wonderful.
We're going to talk about all kinds of films and TV shows and possibly watch some videos.
I don't know.
The last Dfap, we mentioned that me and Wolf had watched one episode of
Keir Noble. It was pretty good.
We watched the rest of it.
And we recommend everyone go watch it.
It's it's terrifying as much as it is amazing.
It's unbelievably good.
The yeah, it's like I was saying to Wolf, it kind of
goes in the same category as Band of Brothers, where it's like this one off series
that's made with incredible pictures of characters and a story
and then plenty of action that's actually kind of like amazing for a TV show.
But and it's also really informative.
Holy shit, they'll they try and have scenes
that integrate with the storyline that are actually straight up just lessons.
Like how does a nuclear plant work?
Why did it fall apart?
Or all the elements that were brought together that created this disaster?
It's like actually really interesting.
But then they also show in detail what radiation can do to you, which is
less than fun.
But it did get a little retarded when it was like,
your baby absorbed the radiations like that doesn't happen.
Yeah, I'd have to get a scientist to explain how that works
if that works that way whatsoever.
I would give the whole show three point six out of fifteen thousand.
Not great, but not terrible.
Oh, yeah, that's pretty good.
No show's gone that high before.
Yeah.
Yes, as is tradition, Mr.
Gary, you're going to have to answer a question that everyone gets asked
when they come on here.
We're going to have to replace this question once episode nine comes out
with something equally as stupid.
But who do you think in episode nine will be the most inconsistent character
as in the one that's written, you know, completely opposite to what they probably
should or we're to be aware of?
Yeah.
Oh, we've got three disqualifications.
You cannot choose Kylo because he's never made any sense whatsoever.
I don't agree.
You can't choose Lando because they're obviously going to ruin Lando.
And that's just no, it's not interesting to choose him.
So and Palpatine, because nobody fucking knew Palpatine was going to be
the film where we made this thing.
So it would also be.
Is he really going to be in the film as a person?
Oh, well, I'm assuming he's going to be some kind of fucking recording,
but they could still screw him up.
Oh, God, yes.
Imagine if they say something like Lord Vader was only the first phase of my plan.
Also, he's like, oh, God, no.
This whole time, it was you, Kylo.
You were you were always what I was preparing.
It's like, please, please, please don't do this.
Yeah.
So your choices are literally anyone or anything else.
You could you could choose even like a blast.
They ruined the Millennium Falcon.
So like literally everything on the table.
They did.
Well, I have a tendency to want to say Ray, but they've never written her
as anything other than like this block of wood that does everything awesome.
So.
They Finn, they might try to actually give him a storyline
instead of making him a clown, and it'll still make him look like a clown.
But they'll try to probably badass him up a little bit because there's been
a lot of criticism of taking the one African-American character
and make him the butt of jokes.
So and Hollywood has been showing that they they listen to criticism
and they take it not seriously, but they actually get a little butthurt about it.
So and they respond within the narrative.
And it's usually two hilarious results.
So, yes, Finn, I think Finn will will do a flip of character
and they'll try to make him all heroic or something.
So Finn is I could be completely wrong.
I mean, it's funny because that's my vote as well.
He's the most popular vote.
We got three, four, five, six, seven, eight people have voted for Finn now.
Oh, right on.
And then Poe is second up.
Actually, it's Poe and Luca second up a drawing, right?
Well, I'm going to laugh so hard if Rose is just not in the movie
and she's never mentioned whatsoever.
Like she's just not there.
And it's like, yeah, I really hope nobody's voting for her,
even though she could very well, you know, they could make her
into like a completely amazing character, whatever.
I don't know. It'll be horrible.
Whatever they decide to do.
I saw I saw a comment swing by that said Chernobyl is not accurate.
Even a little bit. It's just entertainment.
It's not accurate at all.
I doubt that it's not accurate at all.
I'm sure that there's a lot of elements to it that are informative,
even on a general sense.
But I doubt, yeah, I doubt it's it's something you should take
as like gospel about radiation or nuclear plants.
I'm not saying that it's just interesting.
Apparently, one of the female characters, an amalgamation of like
Yeah, they point that out at the end of the show.
Yeah, they have a lot of like concessions about what the production was
and a couple of things that maybe weren't all we're accurate, more so less so.
The very good experience regardless, and I would recommend it.
Yeah, we haven't hadn't talked about it at all, really, outside of casual things.
But we've got four people here who've seen Dark Phoenix.
It probably makes sense to actually talk about it to to at least a little bit of a degree.
It's gone down now.
Is it the only X-Men film to flop or is it the only X-Men film to do this badly?
Anyone know? I don't know.
It's the worst performing X-Men film.
Yeah. And some of not all of them have performed well.
But yeah, it was like the spinoff films are the individual ones.
So like, but the one Wolverine Origins.
That's a good question.
Isn't this them ones?
That film do well, or did it not?
I can't remember. I know it was bad.
I just mean, did it make money?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, that's what we're talking about right now in a way.
Well, your voice has gone tis me there, Alex.
Oh, for fuck's sakes.
I was wondering why he sounded like Darth Vader first.
I don't know what it is, but the microphone randomly makes his voice drown all the way down.
I like that.
What was happening?
It's a clean, it's a clean install of Windows.
It's nothing I do with the settings.
It was like, was the void of hell literally swallowing you at that moment?
Like he talks like this and then he goes like this and it's like Jesus Christ.
Acid never truly leaves your body.
So we could all just be flashed.
I don't say that.
I thought that's going to be bad.
But yeah, either way, it's being heralded as the worst thing in the X-Men series.
Now, does the four other four people here, does anyone think it is the worst out of all the X-Men films?
I don't think it's the worst, but it's really close.
I got to get the X-Men films, I would actually remember them all.
This is the thing.
I can't remember the Wolverine very well.
I did watch it.
Origins was hilarious.
I'm pretty sure that still takes the cake for worst.
It's between that one and Apocalypse for me.
Apocalypse was hilarious.
And it was crazy because a lot of people loved Apocalypse when I remember it being released.
And I was mainly just laughing at most of it, especially.
The you know, the whole like it was it was old then and they do it again in this new film.
The whole Magneto is off somewhere doing his thing and then someone annoys him and brings him in and he becomes the villain.
Like that seems to be his plot line for basically every of the new.
Well, the new time I say the new timeline is the same for the old one, too.
Yeah, we're talking all day about fucking which continuity we're talking about.
Well, there is there is they were going for something.
You could tell what it's supposed to go like film one, two, three, four and then reset one, two, three.
And then it's over, but it doesn't.
There's lots of things that get very confusing when you try and iron it all out, I guess, as I should say.
It's hilarious continuity.
And like I said, I think it was Vox that were complaining about the MCU continuity.
And they said not and not everything could be as good as the X-Men one.
And I was like, what do you mean?
Go away.
This is the thing you might be like, oh, what they make it a joke?
I was like, no, no, no, they were serious.
They think the X-Men is really good.
So what do they even count Deadpool in it?
Does Deadpool because I think most people don't count Deadpool, but I suppose you can.
Right. Like it doesn't hit anything to just throw.
He's just like a side story at the same time.
How do I actually ban somebody from the chat?
Why do you want to do that?
Because he keeps spamming all this bullshit, fearful here.
Yeah, I've been putting him at a time out, but I don't know how to actually ban him.
I think you hit the three dots and hit block.
Or can you not do that?
I hit the three dots in that says go to channel, report, remove, put user and time.
Yeah, I think we got less.
Dammit, there he is again.
Look at this motherfucker with his Arabic bullshit.
Yes, OK, OK, I can block.
Oh, yeah, you got an unwanted commercial content or spam.
There we go. All right.
Could we just say fucking annoying?
He was he was popping up on J streams.
Not necessarily that there was a lot of bot names.
One of them was like sexy girls here with an arrow.
It's like, OK, oh, yes, please.
I mean, I need that to draw my attention away from X-Men.
Please. Oh, there he is again.
Go here. Yeah.
I like one hand that's like this is annoying as hell.
But on the other hand, it's like we're popular enough that we have spam bots.
That's nice. This is get out of hand.
Now that are two of them, it's more than two of them away.
Oh, here, click here.
Oh, it's a fat.
All right. Another bad joke.
I'm going to get fired from this.
I was confused.
Like you make a joke.
What's happening?
Yeah. Hey, I mean, it was a bad joke
than that horrible line in Dark Felix.
You know, that line that everyone is fixated on.
I mean, I don't blame anybody for being fixated.
Well, where did that line come from?
Was that Jennifer Lawrence or was that the people who made the film?
Or was it both?
Like, I don't know exactly what her politics are, but she's.
Oh, she's drunk, the Kool-Aid.
She's. Yeah, don't forget, man.
She is one of those actresses who got heavily
or heavily benefited from Harvey Weinstein, but what do you do?
The motivation is behind releasing something like that, though,
because you know, it's going to piss a bunch of people off.
They already know that.
But maybe were they hoping it would like entice people to come watch it as well?
Because there's nothing else in the film that's anywhere close to that line.
No, there's not.
There's I don't know why release that.
Maybe maybe they were.
Well, maybe this deleted scenes that we'll see later down the line, maybe.
And then you'll be like, oh, my God, the thank goodness
they cut her out, but who knows?
There's so fucking many of them, all these shit.
Sorry, there's there's fucking like 80 of these accounts.
How are they? Yeah, I think there's any mods.
Well, I'm banning them like constantly.
I was going to say, I never needed bods.
That's the weird thing.
Maybe it's me.
Jesus Christ, there are a lot of them.
Alex, are you a mod? I should mod you.
I do. I do have more servers.
All I can do is remove them if I will do it.
Hopefully. I don't know.
I'm not a whole chance like mod me mod me.
No, I can't just mod anybody.
This is this is the benefit the fandom men is have a lot of people they can trust.
Give it to James, what's his name?
And then he could hire mods for you.
You pay mods off. Pay mods off.
He could just bring some of his like workers from China to do it for him.
I mean, oh, yeah, just just just don't click those links.
By the way, people in chat, they're probably not good for your PC.
Whatever the hell it is.
If you disable links, that's the only way to fix chat.
So somebody said that to me just now.
Yeah, I guess I can do mods can link.
Yeah. How do I does anyone know how to do that?
This is really great content for stream.
Uh, tutorial.
Uh, um, I'll I'll.
It was medical suck, a medic who said it to me and just go and ask them now.
All right. Do we do this?
But yeah, OK, let's let's get a little bit, you know, more detail.
So just say it's bad.
What is bad about Dark Phoenix?
Go everything.
How dare you? I liked it when Jennifer Lawrence died.
OK, that was a good part.
Well, she was good when she got Logan.
I was like, yes, and then I was like, shouldn't Logan have kept that death?
I mean, shouldn't you have died in some other way or sacrifice to get rid of her?
I guess so.
Like we have to give him Logan.
Me and the six other people in the theater watching the movie,
everyone cheered the way she died.
Really? Really?
That's so yeah, people cheered.
Hilarious.
Whenever you describe theater going experiences,
I'm always like, Britain is so different.
Everybody's silent as the great are so cultured.
We do not make a single noise.
Well, I think everyone in that theater was like expecting it to be shit
because even after the movie was done, the guys next to me and my friend,
they're like, well, that was a horrible pile of dog shit.
They left and I was like, yeah, without like other than laughing
because it's like a comedy film or a joke in the film.
Audiences in the UK just don't react.
We're just completely silent.
And then we just walk out and then, well, some of us go on the Internet
and bitch about it, but most people just seem to be very quiet about it.
The Americans.
I mean, you know, Wolf, did you see it opening night or?
No, no, I was working that night.
I saw it the Sunday after.
So there was just me and my friend.
We're the first two in there.
And we were like, oh, man, we got the theater all to ourselves.
We could just laugh at this.
And then like a few other people came in.
And at first we were like, oh, we're not going to be able to laugh
because they might like it.
But then they were like,
I went into my settings and I've ticked new comments with hashtags.
All URLs will be held for review.
So hopefully that worked.
Never review them.
We well, yeah.
I mean, I'm not seeing any.
Are we do we do it? Is it done?
Do we win if we won the war against the bots?
It was a long war, a tiring war.
It was like thousands died, millions.
Um, yeah, they were all airbags.
So it's OK for like a consistency of children.
You know, them go into space.
Did you did anyone else find it like funny that they were like,
can the quinjet go to space?
And then Hank is like, I don't know.
I was like, what's on the side for that?
Yeah, from a writing standpoint, why not just say, oh, yes.
Like he tested it and also instead of making us go like, oh,
so you could just do that in the next day.
I mean, I mean, the fact that they went up to space without encounter suits
is like, well, we're all mutants.
Well, we'll definitely live in the, well, as your atmosphere, won't we?
Yeah, totally. That was a.
It was, you know, I haven't seen apocalypse in a while,
so I don't really even remember what Sansa did aside from be
glowy at one point, and that was it.
Oh, anyone know?
Did did apocalypse establish that she could breathe in space?
Because I thought it was extremely jarring when she just went out
into space without a helmet on.
And nobody said anything about it.
She's the dark phoenix wolf.
Why would she need oxygen?
Is that established in apocalypse?
Because, you know, don't remember.
She's just OP.
Don't look, don't even bother trying to like reflect on continuity
for one film, so they don't bother.
You know, it's like already getting like ticked off for the fact that,
you know, like when you're supposed to save the astronaut nightcrawler
and he like teleports like seven times to get to him instead of just once
to get to the other side of the the thing is that he just keeps going.
Yeah, he makes a proper fucking meal of it,
even though it should just literally be the simplest fucking execution going.
He is like the astronaut.
It's not like the last astronaut was hiding.
He's literally in like an orange jumpsuit.
You just go, oh, there he is. Bang.
The boss gene her life.
Also, yeah, that just reminds me of how Nightcrawler's arc.
The guy says, my kids are fan of you.
And then that guy dies and he's like, I'll be the publisher now.
Yeah, he's just like, don't die, don't die.
Oh, OK, there we go.
More responsibilities out the window.
It's what I'd use as an example of like,
this is probably the shortest arc I've ever seen.
But they have all the plot points. They're all there.
Hero's Journey.
Well, Nightcrawler, like, I don't know.
He's he doesn't have an arc or character, really, does he?
Just he's literally like, could they just, you know,
the problem is there's so many characters and they're not focusing.
Of course, all the characters could, but we know fundamentally
they don't most of them anyway.
Oh, what are you talking about?
They do loads with Professor Axe.
They humiliate him over and over again.
That that scene where she makes him walk up the stairs.
I was laughing so hard.
Yeah, everyone has different reactions to it.
I felt like they went way too far with it.
I was like, no, this is goofy.
Yeah, it went from oh, my God, she's like, you know,
got off the rails and like, you know, she's you know, she's, you know,
abusing and humiliating him to.
Oh, man, that's just weird.
Like, he's just like, like, he's like,
he like talks to us about the whole thing.
And you're like, oh, this is weird.
Yeah, what was that game?
Clop was it's clop.
Yeah. Yeah.
It might be like, oh, please, no.
And there's so many ways to make it more tasteful.
Just have him take a few steps.
That's all you need.
I still can't get over that.
I still can't get over that.
First class takes place in the 60s.
This one takes place 30 years later and they haven't aged at all.
But I will believe that it's supposed to be eaten.
McKellen is this little idiot.
They mutants, God.
They just aged really, really, really quickly and slowly.
That was supposed to take place
the same time as the prequel scene in Last Stand.
All right.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Because they visit Jean early there, too.
So oh, but that continuity just gets to this is what I mean.
It's like, it's like, don't look too close to the X-Men films.
They fall apart.
Not that they don't fall apart anyway.
I have got, well, I think is half a decent point or criticism.
And I think the biggest problem for the film, for me,
was just the amount of times when not even like that's only a fake out death,
but literally just a situation where, oh, that character should be killed.
That character should be killed.
Just like when Jean has Magneto and she's like, you know, oh, hi, Magneto.
Thanks for coming here to declare your intentions to kill me.
I'm going to kill you.
And instead of just crushing his head in his own helmet,
which I thought would have been really fucking sick,
she sure just goes, look, I'm really strong.
And then she lets him go and he's just like, oh, my God, he will.
I can't remember who asked me.
It could have been Wolf, could have been Fring, I don't know.
But it was like, how come he wasn't stabbed by the shards of his helmet?
Was that you, Wolf, or someone else?
I mean, I I agreed with that.
But no, yeah, what I'm saying is it's so like bizarre to watch
because you're like, surely she'll kill him.
He just tried to kill her and said that he's going to kill it.
But no, she used the shards of the helmet to push him out of the building.
It's like, OK, that's strange.
But fine. Why did he pull the subway up?
What was the whole point of that?
Just to break into the house, Magneto, I know.
And he pulled the iron from the ground and make a bullet out of it
and shoot her in the head without even entering the house.
He doesn't need to see what's going on in any of these films.
Just walk through the door.
Like, what have you to do?
Some kind of crazy entrance.
I was somebody teleported.
Something happens or he doesn't walk through the door.
That does do.
He lifts the trade up just to put it down.
Like, I don't even know why he did that, really.
And then he lifts the subway train and then he goes through the door
and then he walks through the subway door, doesn't he?
He literally could have just pushed the door open, but no,
we had to like literally ram a train into the doors of the woods.
He couldn't open it. He doesn't have powers against wood.
He puts his hand against the wood like, I can't do it.
There's hinges on the wood.
Yeah, there's lots of metal.
It doesn't. Oh, fucking it's a metal.
I don't even know. I don't even know what he can lift.
Is it just iron or is it like metals and everything metal?
Anything metal?
Isn't anything that's a magnetic metal?
Isn't that the idea?
Or is that like the iron out of your blood and, you know, all kinds of stuff?
That's the thing. What's cool in the comics?
He pulls the ad medium out of Wolverines pores.
Have you seen the that clip from one of the X-Men TV shows?
Where he's defeated by a wooden gun.
And he's like, how did you do that?
And then he explains it's on the gun.
And the South Pole literally just said that in chat as well.
And the best part is, it's like he as soon as he explains it,
he could have been just like, OK, well, I can lift all these cars
and crush all of you, but he doesn't.
He just goes to jail.
Wow. Oh, that that clunky ass line as well,
where the evil evil woman is like, you're not the only one
with mind powers or something like that.
It's like, what?
Also, Scott or Cyclops,
his old character, the whole film is just, oh, Jean, come back to me.
Come back to me. I love you, Jean Jean.
Yeah. Also, also, I don't know about you guys,
but they use the one F-bomb in the entire film for him just to go.
Oh, yeah. I'll fucking kill you.
And it's like he was so out of place.
It's like, who are you?
Oh, I mean, hey, F-bomb is still better than anyone using Logan cough.
But I mean, no, just the whole
it's whole character is just whining the whole time.
And then this is more than you could say for the enemies who were almost token.
Like they bought them from the evil people vending machine.
They were like, I am so I was just so confused
why they introduced them in it at all.
I thought I thought the whole drama of Jean going evil or whatever
was well, far more interesting than anything to do with aliens are invaded.
I think it may have worked if they had the three films of story to do it
with, because this is a very grand story, if you think about all the elements.
But fucking hell, these guys were rushed to the doed.
I love that scene like after Professor X is just leading on the rail
and alien ladies taking the power out of Jean.
And that Professor X is like, wait a minute.
You're a bad guy.
And she's like, yes, I going to kill the world.
Where's the man?
He's on board with it.
And then she says I'm a bad man.
Like he's like, OK, this is a good thing, I guess.
And she's like, I don't even know.
Exactly.
I thought he was like, I thought he was going to say, no, Jean,
that's not who you think it is.
That's something, something.
And like, you know, she's going to be like, I've been, you know, I've been duped.
And it's like, no, you just went, oh, no, she's actually a bad person.
I like as well that the show doesn't bother to explain it.
I mean, the film is like Professor X can read people's minds.
And he's like, he tries to read it.
He's like, you're not human.
And I'm like, is that does that prevent you from she clearly is a mine?
I don't know.
He can read their mind.
It's just they so OK.
This is me reporting those nasty rumors again.
But when this thing went into production, the aliens were supposed to be Skrulls.
They were going to be called Skrulls and they were going to share it with Marvel.
And Fox's whole intention was prior to the sale was to kind of derail Marvel.
So they wanted to start taking ideas before the MCU did because they feel like
they've been doing the Marvel thing longer than the which they have.
So, yeah, that's that's what they were doing.
They decided to use the Skrulls.
And I don't understand how Quicksilver gets sidelined through.
I've never seen that in a superhero film where a guy gets injured, gets puts on the
D.L. and we never see him again.
And they just read him out because they didn't want to deal with him.
He's like the fan favorite. Why?
Yeah, the fan favorite is the only good part of Apocalypse.
That's the only good part.
Any combat situation in the film could have been dealt with by Quicksilver.
That's probably why.
That is probably why they did it.
That's why they just didn't want to deal with it.
Kill him. I mean, it's the last movie.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, that's what I was getting at earlier, which is like there's so many characters
who don't die where it's like, why don't they die?
Is it just it may be better off than let them get me fake?
Oh, I've been knocked down, but I'm unconscious.
No, I have them all surrounded.
Say like, you're a good person.
You can do it. She blows them all back and they all land on respective pikes.
They're just like, who left this debris?
And then Professor X strolls up to each one individually going, no, don't die.
No, no. And then he rolls to the next one.
No, no, don't.
Yeah, he just skips.
He just skips like, well, he's like, I don't care what you like.
Are you are you one of the good guys?
You don't look like a good guy.
Wow.
Well, like, yeah, he just goes up to teleport me home.
I don't want to deal with this.
I still liked a lot of the fight scenes superficially.
I was like, I enjoyed watching Magneto kill people.
It's kind of I laughed when dreadlocks dude was killing people.
OK, yeah, you got you got me the dreadlocks, dude.
I don't know what the fuck they were.
You have literally free rein to make a mutant power.
And you go, what if his dreadlocks would like hydras that bite people or whatever?
It was actually outdid the dude who screamed really loud and wore a flying yellow suit.
Yeah, but none of them were outdo the last stand hedgehog man.
Oh, yeah, I remember that one.
Yeah, I didn't.
I forgot about the personality.
Both of the mutants who could read minds and she had like she had like a stand off
with Xavier and she's like, I'm not the only one who can read minds or whatever.
And she seems to go fucking pulled out a window.
You know, I remember that.
But like, it's just like what's up with it was it's like, well, is she just a mind
reader or what? Because she didn't she like knives and like would she like stabbing
people as well? But I don't know.
Like most generic move is she she they got her from the mutant vending machine.
The same machine is right next to the villain machine that they were talking about.
But yeah, it's that whole damn movie was ridiculous.
At least they have.
I don't know if you guys notice in Bryan, one of the things I've noticed in Bryan
Singer films, he always has mute bad guys.
So if you watched first class, which I still like, but
any any character that's not a main villain just walks around and doing
doing the bidding of the main bad guy, but doesn't say a word.
No, no, she said she said you're not the only one with mind powers.
So this was this this was a Simon Kinberg movie, but I'm talking about in the past.
Oh, I was happy to hear the villains actually talk in this film.
Oh, Rebecca Romain, I think, has four lines in her three movies.
It's a shame because she actually was really cool.
She was way back.
Jennifer Lawrence really maybe appreciate her.
Rebecca Romain's mystique.
Oh, her. OK.
She was practically naked walking through the movie, too.
That wasn't the voice.
And they made her do a lot of like creepy, creepy sort of actions.
And they gave her a little soundtrack whenever she was on.
Like this felt like there was a lot more character and a lot more of the older one.
I say that to the original character because she's a villain.
She's not supposed to be a good guy.
She leads the team at one point, but that's years down the line.
And that's the biggest problem with this film is like you're trying to adapt
a story that took five or six years to more than that five or six years
to develop in the comic books.
So you're you know, if you're a comic book fan, you're reading this,
you're with this character for five or six years.
And like Jean Grey going bad.
You felt something.
Nobody feels something about Santa Stark who can't do a good
American accent at all.
And she was just cast because she was in that big show and she has red hair.
If you have red, red, red hair is that I do not know.
Well, yeah, a personal question, really.
I mean, yeah, Game of Thrones actors, you know, they get in a lot of
they picked up for a lot of like the wasn't Kid Harrington in Pompeii.
That's the funny one people like to reference.
Maisie Williams is in the New Mutants, which may never see the light of day.
But we'll see.
Streaming services are always dumping ground, right, baby?
But yeah, the that's for that movie.
She's going to look 25 and she looks 13 in the movie.
So this film two or three years ago.
Thing is, like, I don't know how much she will age.
Like, what age will she actually age?
If you don't have age, it kind of looks as we'll find out.
Sorry.
Yeah, the film wasn't great.
The everybody getting killed was was just entertaining to me,
but most of it was just sort of like, OK, this is how this is happening.
Um, I liked Hank and Professor X having their disagreement.
It felt natural, at least to a degree,
because it finally banks on the fact that Hank actually cares about Misty,
because that they always like wonder where to take that.
They never really take it anywhere.
They're always like, I don't know, he's kind of in love with him.
It's like, yeah, but the other people are in love with him.
He's also in love with Magnito, but he's often gone.
Also, he had a family boy that they all died.
He's like, it's kind of you.
Yeah, when you watch the ball, you're like, who is everybody to everybody anyway?
And then when you get a scene that's as simple as he liked Mystique,
she's dead, and he blames himself and Professor X.
And then you get to have them be emotional against each other.
And I was like, oh, this is nice.
I I always interpreted Hank and Mystique liking each other
because the blues got to stick together because otherwise I kind of forget
that Hank is even in these movies until I watch them again.
And I'm like, oh, right, you're you're here.
I thought it was hilarious that he he thought he could take on Jean.
I don't know, because the thing is, I've talked to Gary before about this,
but just the idea that Magneto thought that he could take her on
when he was clearly losing to her a second ago, like in the other scene.
I'm like, well, and the fact that he arrives, he says, I am going to kill you.
And here is me now killing you.
It's like, what are you doing, dude?
Like, if you have any hope of killing her,
it's going to be a quick metal bullet to the back of the head
when she can't see you.
That's the only way you're doing it.
But no, I just want that.
Well, they just want to have that moment of I know whose blood that was.
It was like, oh, my God.
That scene could have been so much better as well.
Why does she just walk out of the building and start attacking all the police?
It's like, what are you doing?
This helps nothing.
Why would she go to Magneto in the first place
when she knows that Magneto cares about Mystique?
She says he helps mutants.
He also loved Mystique, dude.
He also hurts a lot of people.
That's true.
Well, this is the thing.
He's always a good guy until someone walks up to him and does a thing
and then he's the fucking villain for the film.
Yeah, honestly, I think it was why she went there
because they wanted to get Magneto back
and they couldn't think of a real reason why.
I love that scene where he opens up the box and takes out the helmet
and it's supposed to be all epic.
And it's like he realized he was in the last film
and he was wearing the helmet in the last film.
I feel like they've had that helmet like moment in so many of the films now,
like him picking.
Do you remember the first helmet in first class?
He was like really purpley because he was like trying to be closer to the comics,
but then they just dropped that in the next one.
So like, you know, it's too goofy.
And then I think they like tried to stylize it in apocalypse.
I don't know.
Yeah, they they got the costumes a little better in apocalypse,
but that was about it.
I can't remember what happened to the to the apocalypse costumes
they were wearing at the very end of the movie.
Well, how many years on is this from apocalypse?
Apocalypse was in the 80s, wasn't it?
It was in the 80s.
Yeah, so this was supposed to be like eight or 10 years afterwards.
Did they like lose the budget for the costumes?
And they're like, let's scrap together these 30 dollar looking costumes.
Jesus Christ. Eight years, guys.
Yes, almost the entire run of the MCU.
And they're telling us that nothing of interest happened.
It's like, you know, everything is fine.
So poplips is 83, apparently.
And then, yeah, the 90s or 82 for Dark Phoenix.
Fucking hell. It's.
Yeah, I want actually I want to look this up.
I want to see how old Michael Fassbender is older than you.
That is true.
He well, he definitely is.
Yeah. OK, so he's so he's 42 now.
When was first class released?
At least date.
OK, that's not even remotely what I was looking for.
I didn't look for shoes, Google.
I'm looking for an X-Men movie.
X-Men first class release date that came out.
Oh, wow. Eight years ago.
OK, so what's that would make him 34.
So 34 plus 30, he should be 60 in the movies.
And instead, he's not kind of makes sense
if he was Ian McKellen at that point, but he's not.
He took DNA.
Makes sense.
All right. All right.
So from the new films, you know, as in
X-Men first class days of future past apocalypse and Dark Phoenix,
where does Dark Phoenix line up there?
In terms of how good it is.
I think it's better than apocalypse than worse than the other.
Oh, I can't even remember fucking days of future past that well.
It's actually well, days of future past is really awesome,
but it's still got loads of writing issues.
And it's got it's a future past where Quicksilver's freeze magneto.
Yeah, it feels that movie feels like having the best of both worlds,
of the of the old and new, and it's really cool to clash them.
And fuck, I love the fact that like the opening scene is watching
the X-Men getting slaughtered by the said dollars.
Jesus Christ, what is happening?
What movie am I watching?
Like, what the fuck?
Yeah, shame they didn't carry on making a film about that.
Well, yeah, I mean, this is the thing.
They don't have enough time.
They could have had their MCU.
They're really better than the fucking aliens slash, you know,
the scroll lock or whatever.
The MCU would just they just took something that was there for everybody.
Like I still stand by Sam Raimi could have had his MCU if he had.
Well, it may be him and whoever else needs to sign off.
But, you know, you make your third.
Let's assume the third Spider-Man movie was good.
And then you make a Venom movie that's solo and you make
like you even have like a vulture movie or something.
And then you continue another Spider-Man movie.
We call it. You stop doing Spider-Man numbers.
You do the whole Spider-Man revelations.
You do Spider-Man and something, something.
Or Spider-Man.
What was to do?
Their original plan was supposed to be kind of bond,
that they were going to stop, you know, doing the one, two, three, four.
They were going to recast every few years and they should have stuck with that.
Did you see Spider-Man 4 trending?
And it's for a Marvel comic, but everybody thought it was
Jen of the Raimi film in the comic and people freaked out over it.
I would love it.
I'll be insane if they made a Spider-Man 4 with Sam Raimi and Tobey Maguire.
That would just be like, what the hell?
Well, bring it on, I want it.
Yeah, no, I might watch it.
And this thing, I think we could have had an amazing X-Men universe
if Fox didn't have such a beyond inconsistent, like.
Looking at each of these films, it's like it's so different, each one,
depending on who's in control, who's starring in it, who's writing, who's directing.
Brian Singer.
This is what I say. This is it.
Brian Singer was like, wasn't he like in a direct in a majority of them?
Like before the before the like the new generation or whatever?
He was directing him before he left for Superman.
And then he came back.
And now we're finding out the because Matthew Vaughn did first class.
And I love Matthew Vaughn.
He did layer cake.
I mean, guys, great Kingsman, good director.
But then Singer came on and apparently
bailing during the filming, he'll just disappear
for like three or four days.
And Kin Kinberg had to come in and direct scenes for, I think, days
of future past and apocalypse where Singer would just but they would put up with it.
And on the Freddie Mercury film, he was doing the same thing.
There's a lot of things swirling around about Brian Singer.
I know about the pedo stuff.
I know about that.
Also probably got, you know, he likes to party.
No. Yeah.
So he's doing drugs all the time.
I'm like, well, disappearing for three to four days.
Yeah, that's a little.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know what the producers think about that kind of thing.
But he's not like fucking.
I don't know. He's not Edgar.
Fuck, not great.
No, he's not worth all that trouble.
Yeah. What's his credentials other than the X-Men films?
Which ones has he made in full?
What are all of his X-Men films?
Because he made the first and second, right?
First and second.
And then he came on for days of future past and did apocalypse.
Right. OK, so he's I remember thinking this.
I was like, I'm pretty sure he did.
One of the ones I thought was the worst.
I was like, yeah, apocalypse
found out why I didn't remember much of apocalypse.
I was asking my wife.
I'm like, I'm tripping because I'm getting old.
So maybe early onset Alzheimer's is kicking in at 49 could happen.
And she told me I fell asleep for half the movie.
I'm like, that's why I can't remember it.
I yeah, I talked to the movie.
Yeah, I can't really say anything about it.
OK, what is what is the best one?
Most people say Logan, right?
I mean, I I really love X-Men, too.
I need to watch all of them again.
Like a bunch of them.
But out of the well, out of all of them,
I mean, are we counting the Wolverine films, too?
I mean, and Deadpool.
Everything except Deadpool.
Yeah, don't count Deadpool.
I think the Deadpool.
I'd say it's between X-Men two and Logan.
I would have to say Logan, but I like my memory is going to betray me
because I watched a lot of the older ones like in like five plus 10 years.
So I'm just going to go for two.
Just because I know that it's not as well.
I know three is where it like went off the road.
Yeah, three was one of the first films I remember being like,
they've destroyed everything.
This was all. Yeah, and then they kind of like went, oh, shit.
You know, what came first, X-Men three or Spider-Man three?
Oh, that's a good question.
I can't insult the Google.
I think X-Men three.
I'm thinking 2006.
Oh, my God, you're turning into Darth Vader again.
Am I? Yeah.
Oh, yeah, it was. It was.
And by one is thought you will do by one year.
Huh? How about that?
Two franchises exploded within a year of each other.
Yeah. But I like the idea that it's like, oh, my sweet summer child.
It gets worse one year after 2008 is Iron Man, which changed everything.
Series had to die for the MCU to be born.
I remember everybody was saying the superhero film was dead.
Round three.
Oh, well, there's people today saying like, oh, it's only a matter of time
before the superhero genre dies.
I was like, no, it won't.
The idea of superheroes, that's never going to die.
I would say it's it's it's literally the biggest it's ever been.
Why is it going to die now?
No, not only that, just it'll never die.
People we've talked about this before, I think, on eFam, maybe.
But the idea that people go, you see Weston used to be on top,
but now it's like a gone genre that people are possibly trying to resurrect.
Like, that's going to be the way it is for superheroes.
It's like the dumbest statement ever because superhero superhero is not limited.
Like, Western is.
You can have a superhero Western film.
You have a superhero sci-fi film, you know, a superhero fantasy film.
Like, you have no limits.
The idea is you just need one character who has powers,
but sometimes not even that Batman doesn't actually have powers.
He's rich.
What's that film?
We see the trailer for it, where it's like the kid is Superman, but goes bad.
What's that?
Yeah, that's not even a well, that's not a quote unquote superhero film, is it?
I don't know what they call it, but that's also a film that's taken
from the idea of superheroes, isn't it?
Yeah, like I always mistake Brightburn for the movie Bright with Will Smith.
And we need to watch that free movies.
I think it's such a terrible film.
But, yeah, no, I don't.
It'll get less popular than it currently is.
Sure. Like, I think superheroes is essentially peaked with Endgame.
I'd be surprised if it gets more popular than that, but who knows, right?
Well, we're not holding out for fucking DC to make anything good, do we?
So what do you mean? Aquaman is.
Oh, dude, I forgot to tell you, Wolf.
So for Father's Day, my dad wanted to watch Aquaman.
I was like, OK, I'll watch it.
It's fine. You know, Tamarou Bonsu, whatever the hell his name is.
Basically, Aquaman's dad.
Oh, so that guy? Yeah.
When my dad's when my dad saw him,
he said, you know, my dad's got a brain, OK?
But he said, wow, he looks a lot like Keanu Reeves.
Oh, no, no, no, he does not.
What? And he was like, you know, Keanu Reeves, I was like, from The Matrix.
And he went, yeah.
Please tell me you like pause the movie, pulled up a picture of it was like.
No, I just like when he went like he came back a couple of seasons,
I was like, do you still think he looks like Keanu Reeves?
He's like, no, it might be a kind of a stroke.
Yeah, like he smells bread and sees Keanu Reeves and people that are going to read.
Yeah, I ideally put a tweet out about it, but I was like,
I can't contextualize this in a way that doesn't sound like I made it up.
I was like, oh, fuck it. I'll leave it.
But he'll be like, oh, yeah, of course he said that.
I was like, no, really, it was really funny.
But guys hate Aquaman.
Was that how we say it? Aquaman, aqua.
Or aqua. Yeah, I think I think Britain would say Aquaman.
Then you guys say Aquaman.
Aluminium is a much better way to pronounce it.
Yeah, there's this this one's where you like America or Britain have the better one,
because like, you know, some of them sound silly.
Some of them don't. It's tough to get the right we got it.
We got to share and be like, sometimes you guys did the better version.
Sometimes we did. You never know.
But anyway, we could say Keanu has had quite the Renaissance.
I feel like we're inbound for some Boba Fett, no, Jango Fett,
like Keanu memes at this point or something going on there.
I don't know. Keanu Fett.
Yeah, we we can now talk about the expanse if you guys would like to.
But that is essentially the main course of this stream,
or at least the point of it, which is kind of odd, but we could get this through
the sooner I could eat, so I'm beautiful.
So, yeah, I guess the setup would be I recently finished it.
I've not read any of the books, but I watched the whole show,
or at least what's available there right now.
And I didn't think it was very good.
In fact, I probably put it in the degree of like
it's below par.
I don't know if I go saying like I'm not going to say terrible or anything.
I probably would even say bad.
Just just just it's just meh with it with a hint of bad.
I'm pretty sure Wolf despises it because he's a huge fan of the books.
And Alex, I think, is around about on the same page as me.
He hasn't read the books, but he's seen the whole show.
And Gary has seen the show, read all the books.
And as far as I know, loves them both.
Loves them. But well, I love most of the books.
There's two of the books I don't love.
The most recent one was great.
I thought it was a return for the two
abandons, Gates and Sybella Byrne.
I don't know his favorites.
I don't mind.
Those are not perfect.
But I don't like Babylon's ashes.
Really? And I don't.
God damn, what's the now?
I'm brain farting now.
It's the one before the last one.
But so the one where they were rising.
Because they they sidelined Holden so much.
I don't want to get too much in the spoilers.
But I just there's a couple of characters like Michio Pa.
I cannot stand that character.
Every chapter, I it was arduous getting through it.
But mostly I love the books.
I love their structure.
And I yeah, the first book is amazing.
I wanted to ask you to ask Wolf on this.
Can you guys tell me what it is about the
either the show or the books?
But I didn't get it from the show, let's say that.
But what is it about the the the expanse in general
that you guys are like really passionate about with it?
Or like what do you like about it a lot?
For me, especially if it contextualized itself in full
with the latest one, because I didn't realize how invested
I was until the latest book, when characters I really loved
started dying.
Right. So characters then.
Oh, yeah, it's definitely the characters.
I mean, the world building is excellent, too.
But the characters are what hold it together for me.
And I didn't realize how much I loved them until Book 8.
And I would go as far to say that the Expanse books,
it's my favorite series ever.
So I'm at peak investment right now.
They're not perfect books, but I love them.
Yeah, that's right.
Because basically, well, my ulterior motive is is I want you
to to convince me to read them, basically, because the show
did not convince me to go on to watch them.
I would go read them. Sorry.
This is definitely the time to read it, because the last book
comes out next year.
Yeah, they come out with books on time.
And that's the oh, yeah, you have to be there.
All right, I mean, it's totally another series that doesn't do that.
Well, and they come out with a book.
It's damn near every year.
So the quality of every year, or at least I think two books
actually came out in the same year, one at the very beginning
and one at the very end, if I remember correctly, did.
And they were both times they were like this one was late,
but that was due to a printing error.
So the book was done.
And considering that these guys are pumping out a book every year
of this quality, that has to be factored in.
That's why, you know, I'll forgive it with.
They try to do different things, and that's what I like.
They introduce new characters each time they do this great world building,
but they stick with the core characters.
I really. Her characters has been completely sidelined,
but I'm with you for the last book.
That was a gut punch.
And I also didn't realize how much I like that character.
Oh, yeah.
Not to be addicted, but why do they have to get them out so quickly
at the at the I could say that the expanse, but at the expense of quality,
if that's if you're like kind of I think it's kind of like the game.
I don't think there has been a steep decline in quality.
Well, first off, it should be noted.
There's actually two authors that work on this.
And they write. Yeah, I'm familiar with that. Yeah.
OK, so I mean, already, if it was one author,
it probably would take a lot longer, but it's expedited in that way.
But I don't really think that they that the books decline in quality.
There's some that aren't quite as fun as others.
Like, I agree with Nerd Roddick.
The first half of Persepolis Rising is pretty meh,
especially with like the holding getting sidelined.
But I think the last half of the book really seals it for me
and got me invested again.
Also, I'm never going to be able to pronounce the titles of the book,
so I'm just going to say one or two.
I'm just going to fucking stumble on them, Persepolis Rising, what?
Yeah, it started out as like, I think, a role playing game or something.
And then they turned it into a book series or at least conceptually.
I'm not really sure if the game was out first or not.
And that's what helped them with their world building.
And they are doing a game now that the RPG, I think,
is coming out later in the year.
I don't know if they crowdfunded it or not.
But what I like about it is it is structured
a little bit like Game of Thrones, like A Song of Ice and Fire,
as you have perspective characters, you have three factions.
They're fighting each other.
And then you have an outside force coming in, threatening them all.
And it's blue.
Yeah. And I'm sorry.
Well, when I was watching the show, because when I went into it, people were,
well, a group of friends who had seen it with all they kept doing was going,
Oh, the book's bad. The book's about I was like, all right.
OK, but I'll still watch it because it was on Amazon Prime, why not?
And then when I was watching, I was like, man, what the fuck is going on?
Well, not what is going on, but what is with these characters?
Like, you know, I was like, surely they must be.
Surely they got to be much more fleshed out in the books,
because for me in the show, they were really like they were like, well,
majority of them for me, like carpool cows or just, you know,
they weren't really characters of their own wants or motivations or,
you know, history or if like they were just like, oh, I'm this guy.
And I'm this guy. And it's like, oh, OK.
And after watching three seasons of it's like some of them have barely
like, you know, move past anything in terms of like character development.
Well, that's what I hate about.
Well, one of the things I hate about the show is Amos in the show
is nothing like he is in the books.
He's such a lovable character in the books.
He's one of my favorites. Really?
Like, yeah, he genuinely I love that character in the books.
He's awesome. OK, so sell me why?
Because honestly, like he's like the biggest carpool cow.
He's literally I am a guy with no morals.
I listen to black chick.
She tells me what to do.
And that's my development.
Also until until he does not anymore.
Yeah. So why is he?
Well, he's whatever in the box.
First, I totally disagree with that.
Well, I totally disagree.
I think Amos is fleshed out if you pay attention in the show.
They talk about how he had been.
They insinuate that he's been part of a program.
And when he yeah, they get into why
he's so on a job. No, I get that.
And like I know that, you know, this history of him back on Earth
in Chicago, wherever and when he meets the guy
who's had his morality taken out of him, he's like, oh, can you reverse it?
Because he's like, maybe that's what's done to me
or what's happened to me kind of thing.
I get that. But it's like this is over three seasons.
It's like his developmental weather is like glacial paces or paint.
I was about to say, we pretty much summed up his entire development.
That's about it. Like, like, tell me why I'm wrong right now.
He's he's got he's got a history where something has happened
that made him the man he is now, which is a cold, hard,
relatively pragmatic soldier.
But who who cracks a joke every once in a while, but maybe not even be jokes.
A lot of them are like, we're laughing.
And we're like, oh, God, he's serious.
And that's that's pretty much Amos.
Yeah, somebody somebody said Amos on the show
was a bland version of James on Firefly.
I that's quite I agree with that.
I disagree.
I mean, I love James from Firefly.
Yeah. What would I love about him?
So they've insinuated with Amos when he was a kid.
He was passed around.
He was a he worked at the sex worker.
Yeah, working brockles.
And yeah, he was a sex worker.
And that's what led up to it.
You know, that was enough for me.
It all depends on how much you are willing to buy into with any show.
That's how it goes with any show.
But I thought I was surprised because when I first saw it,
I was reviewing it for the podcast.
I was like, it's on CFI.
It's going to suck everything on the stock.
And I was surprised that it was of a higher quality.
Then I found out why it's got Rand Shankar from Farscape and Star Trek on it.
And I'm a huge fan of both of those now.
It wasn't a fan of Farscape till recently, but Star Trek.
I've always been a fan of.
And I yeah, I thought it developed very well and got better.
Now, I am a giant Tom Jane fan.
That plays a huge part in why I love the show and stuck with the show.
Always worried how good it would be without him.
And while it wasn't as good without him, it found its feet.
The only thing I have problems with is the end of season three
because it got rushed because they were about to get canceled.
So they had to rush through.
I wanted to bring up with what I was watching it.
It was explained to me two episodes into the second half of season three.
And I know that sounds weird, but it makes sense if you've seen it.
The character Ashford became my favorite character after he had like four seeds.
I was just like, why is this happening?
And I feel like my only take is just that I cannot connect to anybody
in the expanse pretty much at all.
I found the entire crew, the Ross and Ante to be like.
I don't get them that well, like we could go through them one by one, I guess.
But like, yeah, Amos was fucking he was he was he was out for me.
I found it to be kind of just a roadblock in conversation slash the muscle.
He reminds me of Gun and Angel, where it was he was an antagonist to our protagonist.
He got in the way of things sometimes, but he was also very useful
whenever they go on to fights.
The and this is another problem I said to Wolf, I think it was.
I couldn't remember Diobey's name after two seasons.
I was like, I think I what did I call it?
Well, to remember, I said like I said a completely different name.
I know you said something completely different.
And I had to ask you like who in the hell you had to describe her role on the ship.
And I was like, yeah, I described what she does.
And you were like, you mean I was like, oh, yeah, I guess.
And this is the thing I'd have to, you know, give it a full on rewatch
and pay attention to everything to really dig down to what the criticisms I had.
But like I found everybody really annoying.
And it's Holden is so archetypal to be like in a bad way.
He the he's like brooding, altruistic man.
He's funnily enough, he's kind of like Angel.
But Angel wouldn't have been strong without the satellite characters
bouncing off him while Holden's got a robot sadist,
annoying engineer girl who I just I haven't even.
But it's hard to explain.
Even I felt like you know, like the whole storyline with Alex
is that he's choosing the life of the piloting and the fame
because he prefers it to the love he has for his family.
That's done in like, I want to say four scenes over three seasons.
Like there's barely anything for it when that's like the most interesting
element of him, other than he's a guy who gets good piloting done.
He's a relatively old guy.
He's got a conflicting interest because he's of Mars,
but he works with a team that's essentially doing work for Earth,
the Belters and for Mars selectively,
depending on who they think needs a nudge in the right direction sort of thing.
I was like this stuff to work with, but it all feels so thin.
I think would be my general criticism compared to how much other time
other shows spend with characters and how much I can learn about them.
Miller was probably my favorite up until Ashford.
But I still have issues with his storyline.
Like what the hell is with Miller's police station selection of characters?
They get dropped.
Like his his his double dealing boss,
his his partner who disagrees with his methods,
the girl who was kind of in love with him and he was kind of in love with him.
But he did is like all three of those characters are dropped.
I was like, what was the point in any of them?
I don't know. I feel bad because I've just been ransing.
You should be able to speak for a bit, Gary.
I'll let you finish.
I can't like talk you out of your opinion, but as far as I'm concerned,
I love the crew of the Rosinanti.
I love Alex is one of my favorites and it's knowing.
Structure of the show is and this is how I interpret it.
And if you aren't buying into it, that's cool, is no,
we don't know these characters.
Basically, the story starts out as a bunch of coworkers.
Imagine if you're working in an office, some disaster happens
and you are stuck with a bunch of coworkers forever.
You're on the run.
You're part of this perceived crime and a cover up and a murder.
And you are thrown together with your coworkers from Applebee's or something,
which would be probably hellish.
But I'll get that out of here.
Murdock Chan. Yeah, damn it.
Oh, that's not something else in the chat.
That stuff. Oh, boy.
Fuck off. I mean, say anything and I'll mod you.
I trust you, Gary.
Yeah. And come on at your own discretion.
You can do whatever you want.
Chat behaves naughty bastards.
Where was I? So yeah, so they're on this adventure
and we're supposed to be learning about the characters as it goes along.
Now, I mean, listen, I can think differently when the series ends
if I don't feel like I've got.
But as far as Alex is concerned and this is because I'm supposed to separate
this because show and book are two different things completely.
And I'm not supposed to compare the two because they're two different worlds.
But I know that we're going to get background on Naomi and Alex.
Probably, you know, if it gets a fifth season,
that's the season we start finding out about the crew.
We start getting back because they purposely withhold back.
I mean, we still don't know in the books.
We know Holden was in the Navy, did some stuff, didn't like being told what to do.
But we still don't.
And correct me if I'm wrong, Wolf, if I miss that, maybe like he did something
or they they they ordered him to do something he didn't want to do
or he just didn't like to be told what to do and left and got a dishonorable discharge.
But we don't know the exact details of it.
We don't we found out something big about Naomi later.
Alex, we find something out with it all happens.
I don't know what's yours, like one of my favorites.
So book five is my favorite.
I was just about to ask you that.
God, I'd say I'd still say book six is probably my all time favorite.
But book five is really, really great.
And book eight got we're going to have to talk about the books after the show is done,
because I literally don't know anyone else that reads the books.
And I'm like dying to talk to someone about.
OK, you've read book eight, right?
I read book eight and I loved it.
I thought I was so frickin good.
And oh, my God, there were moments because I was coming back from Colorado
and I was listening to the audio book.
Have you listened to the audio books?
Yes. Oh, my God.
Jefferson Mays is a person made godly narrator.
I love him.
But book eight, like there was a point or a few points, actually,
on my way back from Colorado, where I was like on the verge of tears listening to it.
Like I was beside myself.
I didn't realize how much I loved the characters.
But anyway, I don't I might be wrong about this.
Let me look it up.
I know there's some like offshoot expanse books.
Like I think there's one for the Butcher of Anderson Station.
Let me look it up real quick.
There might be one for Holden as well.
I haven't read the the side books.
I've only read the main ones.
I haven't read them.
There's a most recent the most recent side book, which is real.
I should have read what they said.
It was very important to the for as a lead in to book eight.
And I didn't read it yet.
But oh, oh, favorite.
I love the churn because that gives you the aim of stuff.
So I haven't actually read any of them.
And I haven't luckily, I haven't had any issue
understanding what was going on.
It's not super important.
It gives you a little background and they mix it into the series, too.
So like Bobby has one that's pretty good.
And yeah, yeah, it looks like there is the Butcher of Anderson Station.
I think there might be one for Holden.
Is there you have you read all of them or no?
Hang on.
I feel it is Amos's backstory is Amos's backstory.
The voices gone to me again.
I said you've done it again.
Thank you.
I'll just like say some mouth of Sauron quotes before you do.
It'll happen again now.
I've unplugged it, but it's like you do the volume.
I can send you the script for everything he says.
You need to do it.
I don't know what's doing it.
I'm not even touching my computer.
Like I'm not even like I'm fiddling around with this fucking pokeball
right now in my hand.
And that's it.
It was like, oh, why am I doing it?
OK, scene 64.
The other and then next time it happens, we'll tell you.
And then you have to read from it.
There's another person who's spamming chat.
I know.
Yeah, I mean, I guess this stream has made it.
So I now I'm going to have to find people to mod.
I mean, I don't know is James Moore.
Are you there?
We can trust you.
I don't know if I modded you chat.
You've been hungry now and you're going to get people
deleting shit for you.
Like, is this what you wanted?
I could just imagine James Moore getting control.
And then he's actually just an A.I.
And he's been waiting for this moment.
Yeah, this is a fucking endgame.
Uploading him to the Internet and then the whole world is destroyed.
Well, then again, you say he's on a mobile, right?
Which is oh, Jen is here.
Yes. Yeah.
Where's Dawn as well?
Because he's he's messaging me on Discord about this.
The Dawn.
Oh, Dawn.
I mean, yeah, I'd mod him in here as well.
If you want the original Dawn of the Discord.
Come on, chat.
Mod the Dawn, yes.
Mod the Dawn.
I'll try mod Mauler too.
Here you go, mate.
Mod the Dawn.
Yeah, we usually honestly, I'm disappointed.
Chat isn't usually that tis of me, but.
There are Dons in the chat.
Where is he? You have to add me.
Yeah, well, I've only lost him.
Apparently, Mr.
Metaka to not.
Yeah, not the real one, I don't think.
I don't know.
No, the YouTube channel or other YouTube channels, if they post
and they show up like with tick marks or whatever.
Well, then you can just choose to go to his channel and it won't be the one
that we know.
All right.
There's Dawn.
I got you.
All right.
You can be modded as well.
Oh, no need to apologize.
This chat is always brilliant.
I've been getting it in mind, too.
It's been it's been going around.
Yeah, I mean, you know, they're probably a bit restless
because we're just trying about a TV show instead of responding to a video.
We'll get to a video, guys.
All right.
And I'm not saying I mean, this is literally like less than zero point zero zero
one percent of the chat.
So don't worry, you know.
But it's terrible, though, just just just
I've never needed to mod them.
And I now realize that's probably a mistake on my part.
You're one piece.
I probably get boards.
I played record numbers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Bring the worst out of these people.
What's wrong with you?
Really do.
I bring the direct.
Oh, because I am one.
So right there with you.
Who have I lost it on is horrible things in the chat.
Hang on.
Oh, this is going to trigger you, Mahler.
Someone said anyone get back anyway.
Get back to discussing why the Expanse is better than Buffy.
The first time it might.
It might be like Buffy Buffy's high is obliterate.
The Expanse is highs.
But Buffy probably.
I don't know.
Buffy's characters are way stronger than the Expanse, as I reckon.
Oh, no, you do.
Buffy's production is worse than the Expanse.
Probably as a whole.
That's not a controversial thing to say.
I was also made, like, what, 20 years earlier.
Yeah.
And, you know, this is the thing, like, it's it's tough to compare,
but I mean, Jesus, like, I don't know.
What do you think, Gary?
Which one do you prefer?
Oh, Buffy's one of my all time favorite shows.
I do or not.
But as far as well, yeah, the Expanse production is way better.
Characterization is better than Buffy, and we'll see how things end.
Yeah, Buffy is more fappable.
Yeah, I would say so.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Yeah, I mean, if I scream my eyes, Holden almost looks attractive, maybe.
I was going to say me and Alex, apparently, were blown out of the Expanse
by the same episode, and I talked to Wolf about it quite a bit.
Apparently, it's the same thing happens in the book.
Everything's a lot weirder in the show, and I'm going to have to try and,
try and like condense this in a way that makes more sense.
But this is this is less character stuff.
This is more just how does everything work?
So when when Eros becomes a crazy bomb that's going to like destroy Earth,
there's a lot of things that everyone's doing that when I was watching it,
I was like, why, why are you doing this?
Why are you doing that?
And the biggest one being that Miller manages to convince the crew of the
Ross and Ante that they should just go because he's going to be able to
walk down the ghost inside the goo that's turned a giant space station
stone into a missile that's heading into Earth and that they don't need to focus
on allowing the missiles to take place, like them being convinced by it
was so hard for me to believe that it just like that.
I remember that being like, well, whatever like plot line I was following
in this show has just been destroyed.
Like if you remember, there's a moment where he says, check my vitals.
I'm not insane.
And then Naomi does.
And she's like, yeah, you're fine.
As if to say that him hearing the voices makes like they're actually there
because they checked his vitals.
I was just like, I don't think
like if you if you said that to me, I just feel like I don't care
that your vitals are OK, literally listening to the already established,
though, that Eros can move, it could it it's doing something.
It's breaking physics.
So they're not sure if they are pretty much convinced at that point
that all the explosives aren't going to work anyway.
Oh, no, they think it will because he says it's the backup plan.
He says he's a blodged the the.
The Behemoth, I'm going to just call it was Behemoth at that point.
So that's the way I interpreted that they just figured out
there's nothing else we can do at this point.
They can't pull it up.
They were guiding the missiles in, right?
And he's like, if you guys do that, you'll die because of the speed.
He's got the bomb with them.
Remember, he's carrying it with them.
Yeah, but they're like, this doesn't work out.
Blow it up.
Their plan was always that even when he had the because they were keeping up
with if you remember, they start chasing it like a good episode,
like like 20 minutes before he even makes it to the part where he says,
OK, guys, maybe you should just go because he's heading all the way in.
Yeah. And and he says that he's pretty sure
that there is the essentially the ghost of the girl who died
who started all of this, wants to go home.
And that's why it's directing Eros to
like the truth, because she wants to go home
and that he's going to convince her not to.
And they essentially kind of swallow it.
And I was just like, this is so beyond ridiculously stupid.
And that's totally dug it.
That's my favorite episode.
I love it.
If it was tweaked, it could probably be great.
But also the fact that the the goo
basically kills anyone who comes into contact with it quite quickly,
even to the to the point where you see that weird guy
they picked up at one point, it gets like sucked into it, if you remember.
And he's like, well, it just leaves Miller alone.
And he gets to the core without any interruptions.
I thought that was interesting.
Like and he was in the space suit.
Well, the one thing, OK, like I was OK with this, but the one thing
they didn't have the budget for, which was kind of a bummer.
And I'm sure Wolf will be with me on this one is the vomit zombies.
They really cut out because you're supposed to go through a process.
There's an entire process that the, you know, what?
I wanted to see the fucking ribcage dragging itself around
like it showed in the books, like that was a creepy as hell to read.
The bones like spinal column and bones would form to like the spider thing.
So you see body parts walking around like a spider on the wall.
And I just like I like literally just read the book for this episode.
So like just earlier today, I was listening to the last few hours
of the audio book, and it's explaining how there's like a kind of black
ribcage looking thing that's grown up along the walls.
And they're like there's like all these glowing kind of firefly
like lights floating around.
And in my head, it was like, that looks so fucking cool.
And then the show, it's like, oh, no, can't do it.
Oh, and then the the other part they can't convey that's in the books
is everybody that the protomolecule basically melts down
and uses as parts is still somewhat alive.
Their consciousness is still alive.
Oh, yeah, because Miller's listening to the voices of everyone on Arrow.
He's trying to find the heart of it.
Frickin horrid.
It's it's yeah, genuinely good horror at first.
It kind of drops the horror after book one, but still pretty fun.
There's a little bit of it at the end.
You think they might be returning to that a little bit after book eight?
I mean, there's I am.
I'm very curious to see what they're going to do with book nine, because you have
God, what's her name?
She's going to the artifact thing.
Why can I not remember her name? She was in book four.
Fuck. You know who the scientist lady.
Oh, God. Oh, God.
Oh, I should really know this.
It's really starting to piss me off.
It's called livestream brain fart.
And it starts with the characters.
She's from Africa.
Yes. I like it.
I fucking remember her name.
It's really making me angry.
I should know. I just read the book, too.
Oh, I'm going to have to look.
Elvie, Elvie Koye, Elvie, Elvie, Elvie.
Yeah, I really want to see what she does
because she's going to with the the two little children
that were like messed up by the the drones on Lyconia.
I'm really curious to see what she does.
And I really want to.
We're getting to spoiler territory here.
I don't know if we can talk about this.
But yeah, there's a bunch of stuff.
I want to see how it goes, especially since it's going into the people
that took out the proto molecule creators.
It might go horror again, which will be that will be good.
I'm glad they're going there and they're going big.
I was worried that they would kind of keep it a mystery, but
they've really done a good job with that.
Yeah, I'm at peak investment after book.
I'm so ready.
I'm probably going to reread the entire series in preparation for it.
And I haven't done that for a book in a very long time.
And I love that it eventually goes to you've got this technically
advanced race, the human beings that are taking on basically gods
and what they did with the star in that book was fucking awesome.
Oh, God. Yeah.
When they're like, oh, nothing happened.
And then like, what was it?
Oxygen was flooding into the ring gate space or something.
And then they were like, oh, shit, this is going to go horribly wrong.
Yep. Like that was a great element to the book.
I like the ideas of the show.
I don't like the ideas way better.
Yeah, I mean, to bring it back to the whole that that scene.
It's like that's that's just one of sort of many issues.
I thought it was really dumb that his bomb was damaged in such a way
that it has to be pressed every 60 seconds to prevent it from exploding.
I don't even understand clear why they had that happen in the episode.
Like it was completely unnecessary.
He could have just had the bomb.
I guess it was to have him stay for a few minutes.
Very time clock.
I watched Doctor Who.
I'm totally OK with arbitrary time clocks.
I just don't really get the point.
And the fact that when she puts her hand on it,
it just neutralizes the ball or something. I was like, OK.
Well, he says hold this for a second so I can get naked or take off his face.
I'm sorry, but when he kissed her, I was like, wow, OK.
Yeah, and what it doesn't happen.
I thought it was really jarring.
But weird, but real weird.
But what are you going to do?
I more technical stuff.
I thought it was funny that the ship misses the moment ship
and they can't just try again.
They're just like done.
But couldn't you just realign the books?
They explain like the G-forces required to actually turn the ship around
as fast as they would need it to in order to catch up with the
with Eros again, they would like tear the ship in half.
Well, the Rosinante keeps up with them for well after that.
The Navu is way bigger than the Rosinante.
I love the Rosinante could turn around.
They're pretty good about that.
They're pretty good about that is actual.
Yeah, they use actual science to explain that.
I don't know how it happens in the show because I quit after episode four.
Well, I was going to just bring up like, why couldn't they?
Like, does does Earth not have a big ship?
They could also do that with.
Like to the point where they just smash it into it to prevent it from hitting Earth.
I don't know if they would have time.
What do you mean? They don't have like light speed.
They their choices allow us to get obliterated as Earth,
or they don't even try, they don't even mention it.
I was like, it's a better plan than nothing.
Even in space, you cannot escape the Mormons.
That's how orbits work.
If you miss a rendezvous, you have to go another wrap around the sun.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
So the thing is heading right for Earth.
They try to cut them off with a moment ship.
The moment ship just misses a picture like the Mormon ship does a snake sort of move.
It keeps all of its momentum.
And the thing is, the Aero ship at that point is moving very slowly.
You get what I'm trying to say right now.
But the problem is, I mean, even the where I will.
The only time I were talking slowly and I mean, it looks slow.
Again, I haven't watched that part of the show, but in the books, it explains
like the G force is required to turn the ship around
and then fire off in the direction of Eros, especially when Eros is
defying the laws of physics and going way faster than it should be.
It wouldn't work that way.
Even that ship probably wouldn't have even changed the trajectory of it.
It's Eros is huge.
It's going fast.
And that's the only time I will take their science.
I'll have a bone of contention that they would even move Eros.
It probably wouldn't.
I mean, as long as they can even move it slightly away from
in any by degrees, then it'll push it away from it.
Right. And the law, they just
they just did a scientific study, which you want to get really depressed
is if we are able to say there's a big it's a certain size of asteroid.
If we were able to drill in the middle and do an Armageddon
and blow it up with a nuclear bomb, it would just reform in space
going the same direction.
They did a couple of tests on it, some computer tests,
and it blew up and then just went the gravity.
There's so much mass.
It just went right back together and kept going in the same direction.
All that doesn't understand the mass and speed this is happening at.
Why do you think all I've said is Eros is barely moving, right?
It moves enough so that you don't understand the moment ship misses.
And I'm just saying, like, or is saying, why not try again?
Why sit on your ass and just die?
I can. And that's just one of the many options, right?
Because you're the whole they fire 50 percent of missiles at it,
which I thought was interesting, but it's like, OK, fine.
If that's what it takes, why not?
Because they say they lose.
It disappears from the radar, which is another like, OK,
that's something that the protobolecule could do.
There's like five, I guess that's awkward.
But you'd think there would have been like no ships in in the area
other than the rosenante that could just fly towards it
or that you can't just fire more missiles
that are all lying in wait or where was its last direction?
What its trajectory would be?
It has to go to Earth.
Just look at where it was and where Earth is
and then guide in a straight line that's better than nothing.
But they just give up and then they're like Fred Johnson can do it.
Did you find it funny that there's a line where Fred Johnson loses his shit
because he thinks that if the rosenante peel off,
the missiles will belong to him, but they won't hit Eros
and Earth will think that he's stealing the missiles?
I thought that was funny for two reasons.
One, if Earth gets destroyed, well,
no one to complain about him stealing those missiles.
But two, that concern is turned into a net gain in the next season.
Like he just goes like, I've got missiles.
And I was like, I thought you said that you were really concerned
that they they would think you stole them.
But now you're just like, yeah, stole a few of them.
So good. It's like, what?
Yeah, because he's trying to gain power.
Yeah, but like he was and he sees that it's leverage.
There was no like connecting scene for those two
where he goes from being panicked about like, oh, God, they'll think I stole them, too.
You need a character just goes,
you know, what if what if we do steal them?
Then he's like, we can't do that.
And she's like, what if we do steal them?
But they don't know about it.
And then he's like, hmm, you know, that scene.
We never had that. We just jumped from him being like, oh, my God,
this is terrible. Everything's over.
And the next thing he's like, I've got some missiles.
Who knows what we could use them for?
I was like, what the fuck?
It was weird. That's all.
There was lots of little things that I was just trying to like maintain.
But yeah, like the whole.
A lot of you never watch Star Trek Discovery.
Your brain will explode.
Probably. I mean, this is me.
I get I pick up on like all of the things to make sure all the gears
are moving in the right direction so that I can get fully immersed sort of thing.
And just, yeah, the everything to do with that whole sequence.
I felt like it was super overdramas, drama tised,
and that there's lots of options that even I wouldn't have thought of
that would be obvious sort of thing.
Like if I was watching with anybody who knows stuff about things,
they'd probably be like, yeah, they could do this.
They could do this. They could do this.
And I was just coming up with a couple.
Like, for example, like, why don't Earth just have a whole bunch of shit,
even a fleet of ships and just shoot them all into arrows
as it's coming through, it's like, I don't know, anything.
They just sort of give up.
And I thought it was weird.
Because it becomes the ticking clock of can Miller
convince the ship to not attack Earth essentially?
And I was like, I mean, of course you will.
It's like it's not going to blow up.
It felt like for me while I was watching it, whether it makes sense or not,
I bought into it that they that was pretty much that was it.
They saw that it could avoid the ship.
It can break physics, go faster, change direction like what's
and we just shot half our missiles.
There could be an argument then shoot the other half.
And why wasn't Mars chipping in on this one?
And, you know, yeah, certainly.
But I just bought into it at that point.
Like I said, it's Olivier said you can't actually fight a comet.
That was the plan was to fight the comet.
They just couldn't see it on the radar and that's what ruined everything.
Apparently, their missiles could have destroyed arrows.
And they even say like they're going to destroy it in a way
that like they wanted to nuke the surface first so that it burned
all the protomolecules who wouldn't spread a little space.
And now they mention that. Yeah.
But, you know, it all worked out and it's all great.
And I think of like one of the assuming it would have worked.
They think it would have worked, but they thought that the ship
was going to work, too, because in the book, the whole idea
was there's the command center, quote unquote,
which Miller's heading toward where Julie Mao is going to be.
And the idea of putting it of sending it to Venus instead
is if the nukes don't work and even a shred of that command center
is still around, the protomolecule is still going to be effective and lethal
and can still head to Earth.
So it's safer to go to Venus than it is to just nuke it out
in the middle of nowhere and hope that nothing survives.
So that's all Miller's whole plan is to get there.
You don't know how space physics work and it was never going to work.
It was a Hailberry. Tell the characters in the show that that's the whole plan.
That's what creates the drama of the episode.
All I'm saying is like, if this is X, then surely this is X as well.
And the show is like, no.
But yeah, if it works that way, then they're all stupid for thinking
that it would now it would work in the first place.
If it doesn't work that way, then they were stupid
for not trying something else.
That's basically where I'm at right now.
I don't understand space physics. You're right.
I am not an astralogitivist.
It does. Hey, these books actually don't have sonar in space.
So I just I just thought it was funny.
Star Trek Discovery has sonar in space.
Well, they were like, it's got off the radar.
They're like, it's off the radar.
Jesus. How is it off the radar?
And I was like, oh, fucking how does your radar work?
It's got stealth tech.
Being a bit autistic odds you.
I would I would I would say it's the reverse.
I'm like, doesn't this make sense?
And I was like, no, you don't just have space physics.
I think that argument can be made about all YouTubers, myself included.
I mean, well, yeah, well, that was the first thing that was said about me
by my fans when I released the TLJ critique.
1999, there is no spoon. 2019, there is no graphite.
I get it. Oh, no.
Take this man to the infirmary.
He's clearly in stain.
Oh, that was really dumb.
So do you remember when they pick up the three Martian people
who were like knocked out in that ship that they're trying to salvage?
Yeah. Yes, I do.
Do you think it was funny where they clearly establish
that they don't trust the crew of the Rosinante?
They even kind of hate them
because they think that they've stolen the Martian ship.
And then they're like, OK, guys, you all just stay in here, OK?
And then Alex is like, yeah, I'll hang out with them.
It's like, oh, OK.
And then you just leave them in there immediately.
I was like, wow, they could totally overpower him and take his weapon.
But OK. And then they do that in the next scene.
And I was like, well, this is odd that they tried to take control.
It was meant to be a dumb decision, though.
That's the way I took it.
It was meant to be like a stupid decision.
But I believe that Alex, who is who Alex, who like thinks
he's still he's still really loyal to Mars.
So he just thinks they're all still the good guys.
And it kind of shows how you you know, like and it showed the character Alex.
It showed taught him a lesson that he's not really a Martian anymore.
Oh, and if I'm convincing anybody in my chat to be like, well,
I won't give this show a chance, go give it give it a chance.
Absolutely. I might be a negative Nancy here.
You know, you never know.
A lot of people love this show.
Gary just having a friendly debate. Yes.
I'm not making this is this is this is some this is some random thought
shooting off left, right and center like this is not a big old critique video
where I say at the end, if you like it, you're a bad person.
You know, I have not said that, but people would assume I have.
Wolf says all the time, don't you, Wolf?
I say what?
You say that if people like things, you don't like their bad people, right?
Yeah, I say that a lot. Yeah.
Did you not get annoyed that in the second half of season three,
the politics of the universe are kind of gone because we're focused entirely
on the inside of the ring and we're just told in casual lines.
It's like, yeah, good thing the war is over.
It's like, mm hmm, mm hmm, sorry.
It's supposed to be setting up something else.
Now, if they don't pay that off within the show, then I will be pissed
because they are setting something up all of these skirmishes.
The thing about the thing that's cool about the expanse
and as long as they stick with it with the show is there aren't limitless resources.
So if you have this big battle.
Moon of Jupiter, and it wipes out half your ships, half your ships are gone,
and that's going to factor in later.
I don't want to spoil too much, but like half your ships are gone.
You can't just rebuild ship.
It's not Game of Thrones.
You can't have your on the field.
Thousand ships, you know, it takes in the show, well, hopefully in the show,
but in the books, it takes time to rebuild a fleet and they don't have resources.
Earth is tight on resources.
That's why they don't build a bunch of ships.
It's actually Mars.
It's way more advanced and has more money.
And because they're more single minded and they don't have a surplus
population on a thing called basic, which is like the welfare of Earth.
Earth is essentially run, if you guys haven't watched the show,
read the books by the UN.
So and they do a really good job of showing like the good and the very bad of
that. So due to an environmental crisis, the Earth, America doesn't exist anymore.
There's no real sovereign countries.
There's territories and it's run by the UN and it's run very bureaucratically,
kind of like the EU, basically.
So imagine a planet run by the EU for like a hundred years and half the
population, correct me if I'm wrong, Wolf, is that half the population,
a large portion of the population is on a thing called basic,
where they give you a just enough money to eat and pay your rent.
And then you sit down and watch the telly all day, basically.
Yeah, they they really make this life.
And they do make a point, I think it's in Caliban's war
when Bobby is at Earth with Avasarla, like they explain that.
And it's like, that sounds horrible.
And Bobby outright says that.
Yeah, like it's a fate worse than death.
So that's why people choose to either work.
What there is, is there's the military industrial complex on Earth
and Mars is pretty much a planet of a military industrial complex.
And then there's giant bohemoth corporations on Earth that pretty much run everything.
And it's it's all the pitfalls of that.
And it does a really good job of kind of showing.
Yeah, it's basically you said the Globus, it shows the globalists in charge
and them them not doing a very good job, basically.
It does a good job of showing the different perspectives of people, too,
depending on if we're talking about the belt or Mars or Earth
or later on, the other worlds through the ring gates, too.
Yeah, the belt, the belters are again, if you haven't read the books,
I've seen the show are basically the teamsters in space
and some of them verge on a terrorist organization.
So it's a giant workers union.
And these people have lived up there for what, over 100 years now.
So their bodies started adapting.
They're they're they don't do this in the show.
And it is disappointing that all the belters are like six to seven feet tall,
really skinny.
They have brittle bones because they're brought up in space.
I read about that, because the guy or the first belter they bring down to Earth,
that the Middle Eastern woman tortures, they made they made him
a seven foot lanky freak, didn't they?
And then everyone else, they just went, oh, yeah, they got like they gave up
with the belter sort of biology.
The right at the beginning of the show,
it feels like they're actually trying to convince us they're almost alien
in the way that they are so stretched thin.
But then as the show progresses, most pelters just look normal.
Like most of them are just normal dudes.
And you're just like, OK.
And they tried to show like how because, you know,
toward the beginning of the show, Havelock is trying to learn
all the hand language of the belt because they grow up in suits.
So you wouldn't notice things like a shrug.
So they do it with their hands.
And they like only halfway do that, which is like, you know,
you kind of got to do it all the time.
I don't know how it translates in the book or the books, but they have a really
well, a really shitty belter twang,
you know, where they basically just talk like they're really stupid.
You know, that one guy, I forget, I don't know that I forget the guy's name,
but he's the one that Miller kicks off the ship when like, you know,
he goes to detonate the nuke or ever.
And he turns into all right.
You know, he just becomes a belter crony or ever.
I like he just speaks like he's like legit retarded.
And I mean, they are meant to be like a big cut out.
A lot of ways I built a ladder.
Like, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, me said, do that.
Tingy. All right.
It's a judge, I think.
Yeah, no, no, no.
I did actually think like it is that kind of like, is it like black lingo,
like a girl lingo or what?
It's taken from the Greek fishermen language.
That's what the writer said that I guess back.
I can't remember what there is a culture.
The Greek fishermen became such a culture on their own
that they had their own language.
It's a lot like city speak from Blade Runner, which is like a mixture.
Yeah, it's Creole, Spanish.
God, what else?
I know it's Creole and Spanish and something else.
I get that. Yeah, they become so insulating because if they're like
literally out on an asteroid, they are not going to interact with
foreigners or whatever you want to call them.
Earth doesn't have a Mars.
Actually, well, extraterrestrials, they're going to call them innards.
Dusters.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I like because I'm going to guess that they didn't do
the whole IV belt or most belts just look like aliens
because they didn't want to go through makeup and CGI.
Yeah, I'm guessing that's the reason.
The guy that Ava Ava, Ava Sarla Sarla,
that one is torturing is like really elongated when you first see him.
But that's like the last the first and last one you see that's that elongated.
It's kind of a lesson in how they make TV and it's unfortunate,
but they throw everything in to the first episode to get
because it's the pilot to get the things sold and then they kind of spread
all their money they overspend on the first episode
and then they spread it out throughout the series.
And this show was and it's not an excuse.
Actually, with less money, you can get more creative.
But the show famously had no budget for three seasons.
So and they have one now.
If you're on the TV channel, you don't do that.
Literally, it's like, you know, where, well, where shitty plot,
well, where shitty ideas go to die kind of thing.
Speaking of, I'm not saying that that's the expanse,
but that's what like sci fi channel is known for.
Like thinking of that, they just cancel happy.
Ava Sarla, Sadavia and Anderson Dawes,
like all of them disappear for the second half of season three and I get it.
Like Sadavia should be in jail or whatever, but that's it's done so quickly.
It's like he's been thwarted.
He went to jail.
It's all right. It's like, wasn't he the villain for like a cast on a different show?
That's what happened.
Fred Johnson disappeared, too, because he's on the orbital and it was.
It was jarring.
And it was like between in the middle of season three, we jumped.
How do they actually say what it is in universe?
It felt like I jumped in like a jump to see the time gap.
Isn't that like, oh, I will.
You've taken it to.
Oh, sweet. Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Don't wait. Give me the quotes.
I put it in the chat. I put it in the chat.
Which was my for Sauron?
It's a 64. You got to scroll down a little bit.
My master, Sauron the Great, bids thee welcome.
It's actually kind of weirdly close.
Is there any in this route of authority to treat with me?
The halfling was dear to the F.C.
And with the suffering of the hands of this host,
who would have thought one so small could endure so much pain?
He did.
I got to listen back to myself now.
Oh, that was brilliant.
Sorry.
Oh, bloody hell, that was great, actually.
The halfling suffered greatly.
And who is this? Is he all duals air?
It takes more to make a king than a broken elvish bleed.
He's right, you know.
All right, I will fix it now.
But yeah, and I thought, you know, the part of season three where
and it's awesome, by the way,
Ashford bringing on anybody who needs medical assistance
because he's the only ship that has gravity.
I thought that was awesome as a show of character.
But I also was like, are they doing this
because they think that they're about to end
and they want to have a poignant
like we all came together moment in the face of what they.
Sorry, what they did with Ashford in season three,
I thought was was great because, you know,
he was a much different character in the books
and they actually gave him a soul in the show.
And I think it's because they thought they were ending.
I think that played was he like into it big time?
I can't remember if I talked to Wolf about it.
Well, so you say he was like one,
like he wasn't even in it for very long.
We're talking about my least favorite book
in the series is book three.
So I barely even remember him being in it.
Book three is like an important book for the series,
but it's really boring.
It's arduous.
It's a lot of, they spend half the book
helping the injured because I mean.
Yeah, like I understand why they had to have that book
because it is extremely important
for everything following,
but I barely remember what happened aside from
the ring gates are opened.
Okay, let's go.
Oh, and Ash, Ashford's kind of paranoid in the book.
He's not good at all.
There's no like redeeming quality in him.
He's always like this insecure captain
who should have never been in charge, but it's because.
Oh, he's way better than so.
Doesn't he die in the book?
I can't remember.
Yeah, he does, he does.
And he kills somebody in cold blood,
like a very popular character.
Yeah, he kills Naomi's friend, isn't it?
Yeah, the mechanic.
Yeah, Sam.
Sam, yeah, he kills Sam.
Take a seat, Ned Roddick was being very vague on purpose.
And the wolf was like, oh, you mean this specific person?
You're like, yes, that's who I meant.
The book's been out for like almost 10 years.
It's one thing if we're gonna talk about book eight,
like I'm okay with staying away from book eight for now.
Even though it would be something
I couldn't very well enjoy, I'm okay with you.
The spoiler limit has been breached on that one for sure.
Has.
And Ashford, again, is like a one note.
He was, because it was a political move,
and he butted heads with a character named Bull,
who didn't even show up in the show.
He was kind of an amalgamate mission of drummer
and somebody else.
But yeah, they made him in the show.
They made him much better.
He was played, I forgot the actor's name,
but he's played by a great actor.
Yeah, the actor was doing really well.
Yeah, that's the thing.
He got me, when he, a lot of his lines even,
I was like, man, I wish this character was in season one,
because I probably would have like been much more attached
to everything that was happening.
He just, very assertive, confident, interesting history,
bit of humor, a lot of secrecy, and.
The background, they changed his background.
So they, you know, he's got burned scars
from his daughter and stuff.
And yeah, I wonder if he's gonna be in season four.
And I like that he cares about life above being a belter,
but he still has pride for being a belter
beyond any other nation.
I was just like, yeah, that's good shit, I like it.
He's like a slightly more evil Jon Snow, essentially.
Yeah, he's a somewhat redeemed character
who's done like really awful, awful things.
You know, basically a pirate.
His reasoning was a little bit silly towards the end,
but I knew that they needed him to essentially run the role
of antagonist, the whole like, we have to blow everything up
because if anyone, if we were to leave here,
everyone would be too curious not to come back
and they'll screw everything up.
And then he's almost, he's a bit upset
by the end of the season.
Cause he knows now that man will explore it.
And I was just like, did nobody explain to him
that like this shit came from outside of our solar system.
So it'll just happen again anyway.
Like this is just inevitable regardless.
Besides the guy, you guys have survived it.
You can tell humanity how dangerous it is and how blah,
blah, blah.
But they needed a character to be the one that was like,
no, we need to blow everything up.
Expanse will still do it.
It doesn't fall fully into the nihilism shades
of gray postmodern storytelling.
It definitely leads into it a lot,
but it still brings out like bad guys who are just evil.
I mean, and in the books and I don't need to sympathize
with every one of my bad guys.
The whole episode where they somehow
because of the zero G thing got knocked into a position
where they're both trapped by a tractor thing
on either end of it.
That shit was so stupid.
Like I appreciate they want to get into the scenario
where these two are forced to talk to each other
for an extended period of time.
And then figure out which one should sort of,
you know, be knocked out for the other.
And there's nice bits of dialogue here
and they find out a lot about both of them and stuff.
And I was just like, this scenario is so dumb.
Like they apparently were talking to each other
in the hallway and then they got blasted to a point
where they fell on either side of a tractor wedged
against two other things.
I want to try using a crane to catch the glass phone.
That was really dumb too.
Your voice has also become tism again.
I've done nothing.
I'm just unplugged it.
I don't plug it fucking back in.
You just don't do it in Darth Vader quotes now.
I'm just gonna, I'm not gonna change it.
I'm not gonna fix it.
You'll sound dumb as hell man.
Wait, like I said, it's really easy.
You should be able to just unplug it from the base
of the Yati and plug it back in.
It should take like a second.
I did that to fix it last time
and I haven't talked since then and then it did it again.
But yeah, just Gary quickly.
What was supposed to take on that scenario?
Sorry.
It was a little ridiculous, but I liked it
because at the, it brought us a good end.
At the end they tipped their little drinks
and, but it was a little, it was a little non-expansy
but the end of season three kind of really shifted, but.
I would like to know if it had a bit more, she gets,
it looks like she almost kills herself,
but then you find out, oh no, it's just her legs.
And then you go, oh no, it's not actually that even.
She gets like robotic legs that just fix it.
And then she's like, oh.
Oh yeah, I remember that.
She's lying in the bed and then she's like,
oh, hook me up.
And it's like, okay, I can walk down, cool.
It's like a big deal about bleeding in zero G.
She took over.
And she does bleed in zero G for ages.
And it doesn't make a big deal
that it's like, you know, a death sentence
regardless of like the wound.
Wolf, cause you didn't see it.
So at that point, a drummer, she shifts
from being parts of Ashford, parts of Sam to parts of bull.
So at that point, she has her little accident,
like bull had his accident
and he had to walk in these mech legs in the book.
So they kind of gave that to her, but in the book,
so drummer plays an amalgamation of three characters
and two of those three characters, well, actually no,
all three of those characters die.
So everybody thought, especially when she got the legs
and that, yeah, that was kind of weird
that they didn't have her die.
Although her character remains alive in the books,
but she wasn't really in the adaption.
So Drew Gordon said, this is nitpicking.
The scenario makes it sort of a command
of the biggest, most important ship
inside the rig changes to someone else.
Like, I don't think that's a nitpick as a massive effect
on the actual plot.
And this is the thing, I actually enjoy the way it goes.
Cause I actually really like Ashford
and I find them interesting.
And I like the conversation, but goddamn,
you couldn't have done that in any other way.
Like I would have accepted that they were standing still
and there was the tractor thing in the background.
And then they both like, cause of ZRG flew into like a wall
and it just crashed down on them.
Instead of having, I don't even know how it happened.
They were on either end of it
and they both ended up on against wedged.
Not even a wedged against a wall.
It's wedged against other things.
Just have like debris or machinery fall on top of them
and then gravity, well, it comes back or I don't know.
It's just like, how do they find themselves in that ship?
Well, the ship loses its gravity
and it has to, they have to spin it.
Because the gravity and the expanse is all based
on like the motion of the ship.
So if it's in flight in space and it's moving,
there is gravity on the ship,
depending on how the ship is orientated.
And that's why I've got a,
I have a Rosinanti right next to me and it flies upright.
So people can walk in and stuff.
It got damaged, but they have a drum.
So the giant Mormon ship has a thing that spins them outside.
That's all after the accident though.
Yeah, the accident, that's kind of,
they tried to make it go down the way it did in the book
and it kind of did.
I like it.
I like creating the gravity out of spinning it.
I just, like I said,
cause it lost the whole episode, doesn't it?
Them being trapped in the scenario.
I just kept being like, how is, how?
And he uses the arm and it shorts out.
And I was like, oh, how unlucky for you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh God, I just want to watch this now, just laugh at it.
Yeah.
I don't know.
That's it as a whole.
I don't, like I said, I don't hate it or anything.
I just, I didn't really get it.
Like upon finishing the three seasons, I was like,
well, that was that, I guess.
Like, meh.
We're definitely like, I totally get that
if people are invested in the team of the Rosinante,
that should be enough to just carry the whole show
at that point.
Like you wouldn't need anything else.
And yet there's still lots of things.
I actually, like I said, I really like the idea
of the belt being almost its own nation after enough time
that once you colonize Mars, naturally,
at once enough years have passed,
Mars will see it as, it's the exact same thing
as Britain to America, right?
It's like, wait, we are our own nation.
Fuck Earth, that sort of thing.
Even though Earth are like, hey, you're all Earths.
And it's like, no we're not.
And you get that.
I really liked the whole, like, you know,
in the Martian Marines team,
there's the guy who has Earth parents or whatever who's,
I think, was it, he was born on Earth
and he came there straight away to live on Mars
and they don't really trust him
just because he's from Earth?
Yeah, there's animosity just because he's Earth born.
And that's the thing, I love all that stuff.
And I just, I think there's an amazing show in there.
I don't think they really,
who knows maybe if they do get picked back up
and they go full throttle,
we'll get a show that just gets stronger and stronger.
Is it, I don't know, it gets bigger and better.
Apparently Amazon has picked them up, so.
That's a good sign.
Prime have some thoughts.
I thought it was for you.
Yeah, it was wrong.
The Expanse movement.
I went live the night it got canceled on a Thursday night
at like midnight, my time, 11.30 my time.
And it's actually my first video that did well.
I went live right then.
And at the time I had, I think 300, 400 subscribers.
Yeah, did really well.
It was great.
We did this whole movement
and they flew planes over Amazon
and it saved the show.
It was really cool.
What do you think of Babylon Five?
I haven't seen enough.
I watched it here and there when it was on
and I liked it.
I love Michael J. Straczynski,
but I haven't seen it all the way through.
It's why I get a lot of shit for that.
You pretty much seemed like everything.
So you may as well just throw it on there.
It is on my list.
I thought Balla liked sci-fi, guess not.
It won't give you the, do I have to like the Expanse?
You don't like Star Wars.
You don't like the Expanse.
What sci-fi do you like?
In fairness, maybe he meant like the sci-fi channel.
Does anyone like the sci-fi channel?
Well, no one that I know, but...
Also, yeah, I like Farscape.
I don't know, I want to give him a little...
And I like Babylon Five.
I like plenty of sci-fi.
That's what the fuck you say.
You neglect to say Babylon Five.
I'm going to fucking kill you.
I've never watched Babylon Five.
I referenced Babylon Five, I think in part two,
my TLJ critique, and I got so many comments
for people saying, oh my God, you've seen Babylon Five.
It's like, there's a, there's a...
Like Babylon Five fans, they're out there.
They just, they're hiding beneath.
There's a cult.
They're waiting for their time to talk about Babylon Five.
They're like, I'm ready.
Just let it.
Yup, yup.
And yeah, that'll get remade someday
and everyone will hate it.
It'll be great.
It's like Buffy's getting a remake.
You know about that, right?
Gary?
Yeah, I do.
Aw, just...
Me and you will be clever at that when that happens.
When's it coming out?
When's it coming out?
Oh, I don't know if it's green lit yet.
I thought that it was, but they were right in the script
still, like for everything.
As far as I know, Joss Whedon's producing
and there's like, I don't know who it was,
but some girl is writing it and she's been talking about it.
Aw, great.
So he's going to produce it and then he's going to go
on Twitter and defend it for the next 10 years
after it comes out and nobody likes it.
Well, but who knows what's going to happen?
Can't wait.
We're run by the showrunner of a show called Midnight Texas
and that is a bad show.
I say it's not going to be done after all.
So I see conflicting articles here.
Just leave it alone.
Yeah, I know, right?
Just leave it alone.
Make something else.
Just do something else.
It's like...
Oh.
Sorry, I didn't mean to say something.
No, no, no.
I let you say, just do something else
and that's what you've got to say, so we can go.
All right, we're all trying to feel each other out here.
Not in a, well, me too kind of way.
So Nicholas Brandon needs to work.
You're even seeing me out, man.
It's all right.
Hey, it's okay.
We're all guys here.
I'm going to go.
I don't know, Mahler, if you follow Nicholas Brandon Zander
at all on his Facebook.
Yeah, he needs the work.
Maybe he can come back for it, poor guy.
Yeah, he could have a cameo as...
Wasn't this the thing where people like,
is it going to be a reboot?
They're like, no.
And it's like, well, it can't be the same character, right?
It's like, nope.
They're like, what the hell is it?
It's like, I don't know, we'll find out.
It's just like the trailer for the new Terminator.
It's like, what is it?
Apparently it's in continuity.
It's like, ow.
Do you guys, I'm not going to blurt it out here,
but do you guys know what happens
in like the first five minutes of that movie?
Oh, go ahead and spoil it.
I'm up for that.
Anyone in chat?
Wait, you know it, right?
Herminator.
Yeah, the Herminator will, yeah,
it'll make a lot of Herminator.
Is that what we'll call it?
When I hear, I'm sorry, when I hear Herminator,
I think hermaphrodite, and that's...
I wasn't going to hear,
but just like a bad name, but it's intimidating.
Sorry.
Boy and girl can be a boy and girl can be a boy and girl.
Yeah, I hear hermaphrodite, yeah.
Wolf is a strange man.
Wait, so you know what happens
in the opening of the film, is all you're saying?
Yeah, the spoilers.
Do you want to, why don't you want to tell us?
Tell us, I want to know.
Well, here, you know what?
I can message it in...
I think most of chat will want to know.
There'll be some people in chat who don't, probably.
All right, plug your ears if you don't want to hear it.
Five, four, three, two, one.
So right after Herminator 2,
they, John Connor and Sarah go down, I believe, Mexico,
and then another T-800 shows up out of nowhere
and kills John Connor right there.
Oh, no.
Oh, they're doing...
It's like, they couldn't figure out how they could ruin Terminator more
after Genesis, and they're like, well, what if we just kill John Connor?
So basically, they couldn't be brought...
I know Ed would feel long if it isn't returning to there.
No, that's it. OK.
I don't think that would be the reason, but...
What's the likelihood of this being true?
Is this completely confirmed or...?
Pretty likely, it's...
What's funny is I read the leaks for The Predator.
I read it with Wolf, and we were laughing so hard.
I was like, this isn't real. I think it was real.
I know.
Oh.
So they just complete...
You can't kill John. That's not something you can do.
So they're banking on the success and the fandom of Terminator.
One and two, because they're the only good ones.
And to all of that, they're just going to kill the character
that has been the whole sense of the fucking films in the first five minutes.
OK. Really out of the box thinking there, I think.
And...
Guys, you weren't supposed to use Terminator 3 as a bar for how to do worse.
Yeah.
Oh, any other details?
It gets worse. Yeah, it gets worse.
OK, so it gets worse than killing John Connor at the beginning of the film.
Once he's killed that all of a sudden it makes a new saviour,
because you can just it's a mantle.
You can pass down.
So that means that the entire Terminator series is useless, then?
Well, so John Connor becomes a myth.
You know, I said, I said Genesis couldn't kill Terminator
more because it deleted them.
This actually would be.
Is this worse than deleting them to take them?
Genuinely sounds worse than Terminator Genesis.
And I thought that was worse than The Last Jedi.
And the Arnold Schwarzenegger you see in the movie
is the T-800 that killed John Connor in the beginning.
Aged and he feels bad and he wants to help.
No, no, no, no, no.
You're fucking with me. No.
This can't be real.
No, no, no, no.
You're fucking you're pulling my leg.
You're fucking you're taking me for a ride. No.
There is a couple of videos on the subject.
Feels bad, man. Listen, I'm not going to say.
I do not want video evidence.
No, I don't want to live on this planet anymore.
So in other words,
all of the Terminator series is now utterly pointless.
The entire purpose of Terminator one and two is thrown out the way.
This is awful.
Stop doing this.
Can we just stop?
Can we just stop?
You already killed it enough.
Can we stop pretending these films have any.
When is this out?
Oh, when is this film?
Is it the end of the show?
Oh, Jesus Christ.
I can't.
Well, this might be our first collab video,
because I'm going to be furious about it.
We're going to go through Star Wars and this in the same year.
Me and Alex are going to have to watch Terminator one, two, three,
four and five before seeing this one just to know how bad.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
I guess. Oh, my like, oh, fuck.
The temptation to steer to traffic on the way to the cinema.
I don't. This is what it means.
Why is everyone competing to make the worst written story ever now?
Why don't they just start fucking just doing fucking
you know, shitty crossovers like alien versus terminator or whatever?
Why don't they just start doing that?
At least that will be fucking laugh at it.
I feel when AVP feels like a good film.
He's more grounded in the predator.
Oh, Jesus. Yeah.
Oh, this is horrible.
Is that it? Is that all the horrors?
Are you done?
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
Then they run around and fight a ghostwriter, terminator.
And why is that just is that just pop of the course?
I played ghostwriter in Age of the Shield.
He's still going to have Nick Cage.
Can I still laugh at that?
If Nick Cage was the Terminator, I would love this.
Well, I was talking about ghostwriters.
The guy, the guy who plays ghostwriter in Age of the Shield
is the Terminator in the Terminator movie.
Um, oh, yeah, he looks like there's already Pee-Wee Herman.
There's Pee-Wee Herman memes out there.
Who wrote this? Who wrote this shit?
And why? I don't know who wrote it.
But Tim Miller, Deadpool director, is directing it.
And James Cameron produced it.
But James Cameron produced a lot of shite.
So he also he also promoted to a genesis that traitor.
Yeah, obviously, it doesn't matter if like a famous director produces anything.
It's not it's not a good sign.
Well, it's I think there's like me too.
I just I just look back at when the trailers for Prometheus came out
and it was like the original alien director is coming back.
We're going to get a prequel film.
We're going to explore just like, oh, do you want to get really sad?
Oh, my God. How many writers?
OK, it's written by James Cameron, Charles H.
Eggley, Josh Freeman, David S.
Goyer, who sucks, Justin Rhodes and David S.
Goyer is doing the script.
So they're all the people who are right in the new Terminator.
This is a committee of writers.
That's always reassuring.
Thanks for betraying your own story, James.
No, it's not. It's not.
It's not James's story.
It never was anyone was it?
Well, he ripped off.
Harlan Ellison.
He ripped off.
Harlan Ellison.
I'm just saying it.
What's that?
And I have no mouth and I must scream.
Harlan Ellison votes.
He came up with a plot for Terminator.
And then James Cameron, Cameron, Cameron, Cameron son.
I can't remember his name.
What the fuck is that?
Cameron's engine.
A man called James ripped off another man.
I'm just going to say.
Yeah. And at the end of Terminator one now, because me and I saw that shit.
We did remember it being there was it says like with acknowledgments
to Howard Ellis's work or something like that in the credits,
because it's like they got in trouble for it, I believe.
Yeah. Well, how is it?
Oh, fuck, I can't say.
How was it?
Harlan Ellison did tell what you did.
Try taking James Cameron to the court and to sue him for plagiarism,
because the plot of the term, they are the first one now is well,
basically straight up ripped from one of his short stories.
Was and oh, Harlan Ellison made a career out of that after that.
He became a star witness for all plagiarizing cases,
and he would he would read your script to see if it was plagiarized for a fee.
Really? Five thousand dollars.
Yes. Yeah.
Your story. That's interesting.
I didn't know that.
Yeah, but if I read short stories, read, read, I have no mouth and I must scream.
Horror fuel. Trust me.
Harlan, any HP Lovecraft story?
Oh, that's horrible, though.
Why haven't you made a video on that yet, Gary?
Well, have you on on the Harlan Ellison thing?
No, the Timidator thing.
Well, the the the no, I was freaking doing.
I was I think I was traveling and then Game of Thrones took over my life.
I should have done five videos in that.
So I'm going to wait till the movie comes out.
But it's it's going to be awful.
I really should have made a video.
I need more time.
I got stuff to work on.
I have only recently finished the first draft now of my Game of Thrones
episode five video, I've still got a sixth one to do.
And then all of TFA, these people are releasing these shitty fucking
Timidator sequels.
Hang the fuck on, because I can't not cover Timidator.
That's like my baby.
I love those movies.
Yeah, if you cover the press, there's going to be the Timidator too.
Oh, as well.
And if you could destroy Robocop again.
I mean, the last one was pretty bad, but
I refuse to watch them.
I only watched it once and I forgot everything about it.
And it was boring.
It was terrible.
Yeah, I just watched the original because.
How often do we say that these days?
Pretty genius. Yeah, I love it.
What is what is the just so I have a time frame of how much
I'm going to be depressed for the next six months.
What is the new thing coming out?
Believe it is November 9th, November 1st.
Oh, great.
So like in Star Wars in December.
So apparently it's the 25th of October for United Kingdom.
Well, I was going to say, like, I can check out the last two months
of this year and just forget my life.
This is why I like.
I love how Timidator three said Sarah Connor died
and John Carter's carrying on with his legacy.
People were annoyed at that.
And now this film is like, oh, yeah, OK.
So you guys wanted John Connor dead and Sarah Connor to carry on.
We're like, no.
Did all I remember when I was first talking about this movie
was how it was like, oh, we're going to do every film after T2.
You guys will love that.
And it's just like, we'll hate you, too.
Why do you think you're going to be special?
You can ignore all the crap ones.
But if you just start off with a crap plot thread from the beginning,
it's not going to work.
It's going to repeat.
Well, you're going to make new mistakes.
Oh, man. Well, we got until 25th of October
for me to do every video I need to do.
Four months. Great.
Yeah, go with it.
Oh, yeah.
If everybody's good to go,
we've now got a couple of videos possibly worth looking at.
The way you pause the video.
Yeah, I know.
The way this works is you follow this link and then you end up
in a little browser thing that allows you to see videos the same time as this.
I believe you're familiar with this from last time I spoke to you.
That's when we talked about Buffy and Angel.
Or she was worried.
And we're going to look at funny pandas.
Epic laughs.
So, oh, well, there's three videos that are potential for a roster,
one that's been massively requested.
And I don't know if we'll get to it today. Massively, massively.
And then the other two Game of Thrones related.
But I think we have to start with.
I haven't actually seen this, so it could be good, could be good.
Could be clickbait.
But it's titled, no, no, not the fucking panda.
It's it's entitled.
Uh, god damn it.
The though Game of Thrones fans, you don't deserve better.
Oh, no. Are you sharing it?
Oh, you are sharing it now.
I can see it.
And for some reason, the thumbnail has D&D in it, which implies to me.
Oh, oh, no. Oh, boy.
I already don't like it.
I don't know who this man is, but I hope this is a well reasoned video.
I don't like the face.
I don't like the fact that there's not a space between the three periods and you.
I don't like the fact that he's got last Jedi on the poster.
Oh, no. I didn't see that.
Oh, Lord. Oh, well, I like his face.
I don't like his hair.
I don't like the video. You're a bigot.
Let the man I don't like his caterpillar eyebrows.
No, no, I'm not doing this caterpillar eyebrows.
He's going to show me.
Come on. Let's do this.
We didn't deserve better, guys.
I know this might be a little off brand, but today I really want to rant.
And therefore, I'm going to be talking about Game of Thrones.
Do we have to watch this?
If you're like 10 years old and watch me for my Disney content.
Just be wary because I'm about to.
Oh, boy, he almost said a swear word.
That's a race. Do that for me.
She missed your.
Oh, God, he's he's one of those stupid UK people.
No wonder I'm sorry. OK, we're not all perfect.
Most of us are not all.
I don't know if this is just me, but for the last month,
my YouTube feed has been filled with people.
A lot of Jimmy Jones, an angry show man.
My video is not in there at all.
I know. What the hell?
Damn, we didn't make the guys.
You got you all failed. Get out.
We need to we need to up our game.
I probably bought this on myself after the Battle of Winterfell.
I started watching a few and was like, yeah, they make some really good points.
I'm still getting them.
Like it's been a few weeks now, guys.
Can we just move on?
Zooming on your face. You're already ugly enough.
Oh, my God. You made the did the beam.
It's like, why are we still talking about this?
Spider-Man's coming. Oh, I know.
Why are you talking about that? Why did you make a video?
Why didn't you just because he's telling everyone to stop talking about it?
OK, it's totally fair.
I just love the idea that everything comes with us like a talk by date.
Like, stop talking about it. We've passed the date.
Yeah, guys, Spider-Man is coming out next week in it.
Come on. Really is.
Someone was like, you know, God, it is actually intended to say that.
Someone asked if he was on speed.
Maybe he probably has sped himself up.
I don't know.
This feels very classic YouTube vlog where it's like.
Hello, everybody, welcome to the.
She's like, OK, not a lot of estrogen, I think.
Well, you know, anything that makes you faster on
because I want to get a million views like everyone else.
I just want one big video. It's been so long.
So I guess here's my I don't know.
Maybe it's not going to be a V.
I would say, guys, shut up about Game of Thrones.
How did this video do?
I don't know. We cannot slow him
because I want to get through this video as fast as we possibly can.
Yeah, I've got like an hour max before I'm going to cave in and eat.
I will need to eat. So.
All right. We can we can it'll be great.
And we don't rush for me.
Just, yeah, let's rush rush for the him that this video.
That's a 1000 views like, you know, it's been rushed
when they somehow make Anakin Skywalker turning to the dark side look drawn out.
They're just thinking it wasn't that bad.
Like it could have been so much worse.
It wasn't that bad.
It could have been so much worse.
That's a really great compliment for the show.
Well, we can't have this video and it's not an argument yet.
Come on. You know, I'm honestly trying to figure out
how it possibly could have been worse.
I mean, they will. I'm curious about this way.
Have you not seen the sub right now?
Well, I did not see the sub right when they were making threads
about how it could be worse.
Like they were like the most wackiest plots that are still like, you know, in universe.
I'm not just talking about like, you know, like, you know, they're all aliens.
But like, I mean, like, you know, genuine bad plot threads.
I would rather have had every character just explode out of nowhere.
Are you? We could read them out like Leah.
What is it he would achieve saying?
Like, yes, this could be worse.
Like, congratulations.
It's not the worst thing on this planet. OK.
Well, it's like celebrating coming second in the boxing fight, isn't it?
It's, you know, it's going to be worse.
He sounds like a girl.
He looks like he came in second and a lot of things maybe last.
Oh, and I'm just noticing he has a last Jedi.
I know. Yeah. Yeah.
Redful arguments used to defend anything.
But I guess what I'm trying to say is that it isn't deserving of the abuse
it's currently getting. Is it not?
I want to talk about when we're covering abuse.
So we're talking about like, you know, the abuse that the actors get.
Oh, well, let's let it play, then.
Let's see his examples of abuse.
Well, he's using YouTube comments in here.
So we know it's oh, well, actually, we're standing in a show of a maid.
Possibly.
And how good an ending is often based on what it's ending.
Right. Like if we had a really bad show that had a bad ending,
it's just like, yeah, it's a bad ending.
But this one, like, yeah.
Yeah, like we're setting up a show of a maid.
So it's a stop his face.
Stop. What does that mean?
We couldn't understand him.
Did he say he has watched the show all along or just recently picked it up or?
I don't know. I don't think it'll.
You know, I'm I'm looking like really longingly at my switch
and just thinking of Mario karting for the entire rest of the video.
I don't know if I can do this.
This guy's terrible.
Let's just see his will terribly cherry pick comments.
What do you guys what is you guys pick for worst ending to a TV show ever?
I don't know. I say this is someone who doesn't really watch many.
Well, I guess I can't really say anything because I don't watch many TV shows.
It's not the thing is like, well, the problem is, is that a lot of TV shows
that I think are bad, I don't watch them till the end.
So it's hard to.
I mean, I've seen a lot of shows and badly.
I still think in reference to what it's ending,
Game of Thrones is possibly the worst ending to a show ever made.
It destroyed everything that I have ever seen.
But I say this is someone who's watched like 10 to 15 shows ever.
So well, it's like, yeah, like quality from like, you know, the start of it,
you know, to it's, you know, slow decline to it's very steep, you know, drop off
like from season seven onwards or whatever.
What do you want to say in Lost and Dexter?
I, I still think this is worse than Lost and Dexter.
A lot wasn't for a lot of people lost wasn't good.
Game of Thrones was good.
And I, you know, well, if I think watching 10 or 15 shows in your lifetime,
that's a lot. That's that's probably the average.
Well, in terms of like how many shows are out, I mean, it's one thing.
Like movies, they're way more easily digestible.
I've seen hundreds of movies.
I've seen only a little bit more than a dozen if that shows.
So I don't know if my opinion will really hold much ground here.
It's the worst ending ever based on how it began.
Yeah, that's kind of where I am.
For sure.
I don't think that's abuse or undeserved abuse.
But let's continue.
Show ever made.
You see what I mean?
I feel like that's a little far.
Season eight was a total mess and disappointment.
Pure, unadulterated trash.
Perfect example of defeat snatched from the jaws of victory.
Totally disregarded character arcs.
It's better rating than this.
The first three were just like complete wines,
but is he going to actually argue this now?
Well, let's let's find out.
I don't know where he's going with this.
Apparently, he's not going to argue it.
He's just going to wine.
I'm just waiting for him to justify the title of this video.
That's all I'm after.
He's ever going into an MTV Cribs Big Brother episode.
I'm not sure. Zoom in again.
It's not an argument.
Look, it's it's I've talked to Jay about this zooming in.
It's like the easy way to be like, I'm an editor.
Look, I zoomed in like, well done, man.
Well done.
I do know how to use the option in Sony Vegas.
It's funny.
You just you're you're hating.
Don't hate that's funny.
I like it.
Creating a villain in the last two episodes.
Exactly.
That's the entire review.
The city on Corrente in a swastika.
Nonsense writing tried so hard in being unpredictable.
Ended up betraying seven.
Oh, someone wrote a negative review in another language.
Therefore, that review is in what?
I don't know.
It was supposed to be funny, I think it's just another language.
It's still a negative review.
I don't know what it says, but that's not an argument.
You can't just read something in a different language
and then say you're wrong because I don't understand it.
I mean, he hasn't even commented on the real way.
What is that?
He's not done an argument yet.
Also, this is a pretty, pretty, pretty good use of the amount of words this has,
you know, right?
So being unpredictable ended up betraying the whole seven
season story plot and character completely.
What a loss.
Like, yeah, I agree with that.
And the character completely.
What a loss.
Season seven really wasn't that great either, guys.
Oh, fucking because season seven was bad.
See, they can't be that bad.
Yeah, because we're all different season seven.
That's that's what we're doing.
Did you know, guys, you're watching a shit show two years ago.
Honestly, the when I first made tweets about like how bad the season was,
some of the first responses were like, oh, so you think it's only bad now?
It's like, when did I say that?
When did I mention that?
We're tough.
We're just talking about season eight.
It doesn't. Yeah.
How old is this kid?
It didn't three.
The team, I mean, it sounds like, you know, it wasn't it wasn't alive
when the boxers came out.
Let's just that's probably true.
Yeah, season seven.
In fairness, I wasn't tired.
I don't think you're a you're a beautiful young man.
No, I'm not. I'm really ugly.
That's racist.
I'll say that about Wolf.
He'll beat you up.
Disaster eight season alone spoiled seven years of devotional watching.
I don't think I'd now recommend got to anyone.
Shame, big shame.
I just the final season doesn't make it any worse.
Yes, it does. OK.
Yes, it does.
There is there is a thing like a switch.
So I had to update the game.
There are the updates of the switch are pretty, pretty fast
from what I've heard from online.
Oh, yeah. That was like a second long.
OK, I've seen people say like people complain about PS4 updates all the time,
which are very valid, but I've not heard much about switch updates.
And I've heard that they have lots of updates, but they're very quick.
It took forever for all these games to install
because you can't play a game while installing a game like Steam.
So all right. Right.
Yeah. Don't don't compare it to a PC.
It's not a PC.
I know it's not a PC.
I have Mario Kart. I'm happy.
Let him believe it's a PCL.
Come on, let's just sit in the corner.
Suck your thumb and play your Mario games.
The the idea that a bad later season has no effect on early seasons is bullshit.
Every scene that builds up the White Walkers is now kind of funny,
like what watching all of this foreboding dialogue
and all the scenes where they're just walking that you just see them.
You're like, oh, God, look at them.
He's like, oh, I can't wait for I had to just add one of them and all over.
They only get as far as Winterfell.
It's kind of like you just watch it.
They're almost fast forward double now.
And you might be like, well, you can watch Hardhome.
That's fun.
It's a better finale for the the White Walkers that anything is season eight.
And then you get stuff like Jamie, like watching any of Jamie's progress
is kind of annoying now.
Same for Danny.
Anytime you see a quote from Danny, such as,
I don't want another child's bode and laid at my feet.
That line didn't age well, really didn't.
I'm kidding, by the way, that's an actual line.
That's not like a frame of mind she has.
She says that one for one.
I think it's season five.
Painful, painful to watch the old stuff.
Me and Wolf watch the Wall episode.
And it's just it's annoying.
Yeah, like halfway through the episode, I said, I can't even enjoy this anymore
because I know in the Wall episode is awesome.
I totally agree.
I was doing some of that when I was doing reviews,
and it was very hard to watch the old stuff now.
It's damaged the old content.
Unfortunately, I have no intention to read the books.
And now, well, I've bought and am reading the books and they are long guys.
I've been reading like an hour a day for three days.
And I've only just got the brand being thrown out the tower.
Not only that's like four chapters in.
How did you take a man?
He's a slow reason.
Yeah, it took four hours to get to chapter.
It's like 40.
It's like not even 40 pages.
And I don't think somebody who reads fucking comments or fucking YouTube
wherever for the living is really like, you know, handling all these books.
For a living. Why?
OK, well, I think Tom, why why do you have two copies of A Storm of Swords?
Why is the Clash of Kings first?
Where is the Game of Thrones?
No, no, you're right. Yes.
Oh, what is that?
Steel and snow blood and gold.
What is this?
That is the UK edition where they have been split up.
And he had his hand.
That's why he's not in there.
I was going to say he's reading Game of Thrones.
Probably why I have the exact same copy.
But I say the exact same copy, the exact same edition.
Present themselves as a possible alternate ending to the series,
if he ever finishes them.
I'm also just enjoying diving deeper into the law
before the spinoff some prequel series.
You see that?
He does have that.
That is basically.
Oh, shit. Metapause.
He paused the video.
You can't do that.
Oh, my God.
This is like what Sammy classic Sonic fan and ended.
It's like screaming rant video by more screaming rants.
But over a picture.
Congratulations.
You're on par with Sammy classic.
This is unprecedented.
The subject of the Efap has paused the video.
I didn't even know it was possible, guys.
And deeper into the law
before the spinoff some prequel series.
You see that that is basically a tutorial
on how to respect the stupid retard.
You how dare you, Wolf?
He's he's teaching us how to respect the criticized stuff.
He's having his big moment.
Yeah.
He's been diving deeper into the law before the spinoff
some prequel series.
You see that what I just did there.
That is basically a tutorial on how to respectfully criticize
while also present an interest in an ultimate ending.
To respectfully criticize.
Wow.
I'm going to change my channel fundamentally now.
Thank you.
Seriously, mate.
Bloor your ass.
You didn't fucking say anything.
You just read the comments.
He's teaching us and you guys are just not listening.
He's teaching us how to do it.
He read a bunch of fucking paper thing.
Commons zoomed in three times for dramatic effect or whatever
the fuck that was.
And now that's how you respectfully show the story.
Fuck off.
I like how we're both do it.
Bloor you, fuckers.
Fuck.
One and a half million people signing a petition for them
to remake season eight with competent writers.
You how competent writers.
Hey, I should talk like this guy more often.
I just use this as my babbling retard voice.
I just love it.
Whatever someone says.
Do you really think the petition is going to lead to like the remake of the show?
Yeah.
Like, yes, I think everyone, everyone who signed it
thought that it would do that.
Everybody, every last person who signed it.
People are calling him in the chat.
They're calling him lispy queer.
Lispy bass.
Don't do that.
We'll get booing off.
God, why is it skipping around?
Who's doing that?
Uh, not me, for once.
I'm not actually.
Like being a fan of something doesn't give you ownership.
He's explaining why we don't deserve better.
They deserve to have it remade the way they wanted to be made.
Like being a fan of something doesn't give you ownership of that thing.
That's not how it works.
I don't own our reactions either.
Jesus.
Pointless arguments.
You're not entitled to get what you want.
It's like, OK.
I didn't think I was.
When did I say that?
I am entitled to bitch about it.
Absolutely.
Later.
Yep.
And then because it's not legitimate criticism.
Oh, shit.
Someone in the chat said we don't deserve good things.
One of my rules as a YouTuber
is that no one can ever tell me what kind of videos I have to make.
Fans of my videos can suggest ideas.
And I personally know what would do best among my audience
if people think my content is changed.
Hey, you started this video saying how you're desperate to chase them for that.
Like, you know, if you count high again and now you're like lecturing people up,
you know, being told how to make videos.
Come on, baby.
I mean, the whole like, I want to make a video that gets lots of views,
like, so it's not about making a video that you want.
OK.
Yeah, it's my content.
It's free.
So you don't get to make the demand.
And what I guess was that I blame Brexit for this.
Different when you're paying for something
and therefore have a right to be annoyed.
Oh, I like that you have to make the concession there.
It's like YouTube and HBO out the same
because you actually have to pay for the Game of Thrones.
So rip.
Oh, no.
So if there's an entrance fee to consume something,
criticism becomes valid.
Actually, well, no, he's not going to say that.
But I like the idea that, say, for example, you buy a meal and it's not cooked.
It's like you have every right to be like, hey, I paid for this.
It's fucked up.
How does that translate to a TV show?
You'd be like, well, you just don't like the right.
It's like, no, the writing was half baked, undercooked, rushed.
I demand my money back.
This is not the TV show I paid for.
Well, I like to see you cook there.
Such a great argument.
I love it.
The chef said that.
Why do you go make a steak piece of shit?
You need you to do it.
I am quite a platter.
He's got three hundred K subs.
I'm going to look into that.
Yeah, he's got three hundred thousand subs.
It doesn't make what happened wrong.
And therefore you wrong.
Oh, an interesting word.
Wrong, like morally wrong.
It doesn't make what happened wrong.
And therefore you can't claim it should have been better.
Imagine being a fan of a team that plays football, let's say.
Wild for, I know.
And therefore you buy a ticket to go to one of their games,
but your team loses that game, meaning you didn't enjoy it.
With this logic, you would decide.
That doesn't necessarily mean you didn't enjoy it.
OK, OK, OK, because this little dickweasel has never watched a football game in his life.
Yeah, real, real, real example from a real footy fan, quote unquote.
A team called Arsenal consistently don't live up to their expectations
based on their financial power and their position in the league.
They consistently don't win the league and consistently get knocked out of all the cups.
And fans pay in the Premier League, the English league,
those fans pay the most for the tickets because Arsenal charge the most for ticket prices
and they consistently bitch about it because they pay for all the players on their salaries
and they never get anything out of it.
Are they entitled to do that?
The answer is yes.
Yeah, yeah, I don't even want to I don't even want to care to entertain this little shit argument.
Is he aware that bots are real?
So like the real events happening and there's no no one pulls the strings.
And if he's going to be the passion of the fans, he can fuck off too, because I'm not I'm not listening to that either.
This is a stupid argument in the first place because it's a total false equivalence.
Like a narrative based show and a sport are nowhere near the same thing.
You pay to see the event.
The event could go any way.
That's what he's trying to make the argument for.
But writing a story like if OK, so if you went to the correct analogy would be you pay to go and see football
and then they're doing basketball.
You're like, what?
What is this? I didn't pay for this ticket.
This is the not this is not the right game.
Yeah. And the equivalent would be I paid for a fucking ending to Game of Thrones.
What you've just done is just create this nonsense fan fiction that spits on everything.
Oh, I need a pizza.
It's the wrong result and right to petition to have the game replayed.
Do you see how ridiculous that sounds?
It is. Yeah, your analogy is ridiculous, but he pointed it out so.
I don't know how many people signed the petition as a genuine attempt to get HBO to do that.
Dylan. Oh, no one.
Well, OK, fine.
I'm sure there's someone who thought it would help.
But no, I never thought that HBO would do anything.
But it's a nice message.
If if if the fact if the chat didn't know some group of fans did try making a petition for you to write
or rewrite Game of Thrones mauler and I bet all of them were completely 100%.
Yeah, they do. It would happen.
HBO would see that be like, yep, hey, yeah, they should fly a jet over to you.
And they should roll up the carpet and, you know, like, you know, get down on, well, bend the knee and say, please, mauler, show us how they write.
Come on.
There were large numbers of people who were disappointed with the end of the movie of all time.
And as a way to add pulling backs, I'm trying to say that.
Oh, well, I thought I thought that.
Oh, we've jumped really far.
How did this happen? How's out of sync, where we went with the end?
I don't really have a problem with that.
You don't like something.
You have every right to criticize it in a way that a football fan would criticize their team for not playing well.
You don't write a negative review or a fan fiction saying how you think it should have happened instead.
I can't stress this enough.
I'm not a hypocrite for critters.
If you don't feel like the show's ending, write your own fan fiction.
Great, mate.
Wait, he's got a video that says crimes are going to be a bad film.
What does a bad film mean, sir?
That mean, hmm.
Also, did it just jump again?
You did, yeah.
Is it? Hang on.
Is anyone like using the arrow keys on their keyboard at all and think something you have?
I mean, it jumps around a bit every once in a while.
Is everyone on 441 right now?
Scary?
Yes, I am.
Okay, good.
On 441, yeah.
I'm guessing Wolf is hunting for a pizza.
Probably fine.
Yeah, I'm on 442.
Every right to criticize it in a way that a football fan would criticize their team for not playing well.
You don't write a negative review or a fan fiction saying how you think it should have happened instead.
I can't stress this enough.
I'm not a hypocrite for criticizing things and also complaining about people doing seemingly the same thing.
Like I, for example, just over a year ago, made a video discussing why Cars 2 is my least favorite movie of all time.
And as a way to add some flair to the video, I snapped a DVD in the hole.
This was a skit.
Oh, my God.
Oh, he's crazy.
Somebody get this man a straight jacket.
Holy Moses.
I like that he had to mention it.
He probably thought that was crazy that he did that.
Oh, man, do you remember when the last day I came out and people were like with bird in lamb, roast, teaco dolls and all that?
Like, you know, fuck you, Disney.
But I was like, but you bought it.
You bought the doll anyway.
So they've already won.
I like didn't know.
And there's people who are like flushing Gillette products down the toilet and burning them because of that.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, I don't know is it's like I don't know what I know is the message.
I know. Yeah.
I barbecued Star Trek Discovery season one, but it was from a super chat.
And it was requested. Oh, well, well, if somebody gave you money to do that and you didn't care about melting the DVD or rather than fuck it, go for it.
You know what? They're really hard to melt.
The case melt.
The DVD did not.
And I had it over the fire, had lighter fluid on it and everything.
And they're pretty they're pretty solid.
Yeah, too bad they didn't have those music masters on them.
You guys hear about the fire?
Oh, yeah. And that's eight.
Didn't they lie about how much was actually destroyed?
Yeah, yeah, pretty much everything.
We lost everything.
Oh, you said in the video included to make a statement and for comedic reasons.
And therefore, I don't think it was overly harmful for anyone involved.
I guess that the petition was purely made as a way to bring people together as a statement in hatred of Game of Thrones season eight.
That's OK. Why I needed to be an actual petition.
I don't know. I guess they're inspired by the success of the last Jedi petition.
Oh, these bits are about the lost.
Right. Well, of course, he's got a poster in the background of it.
Yeah, many, many fans.
Well, so obviously, Game of Thrones is like, you know, the most was the most watched TV show like ever.
Yeah, like, you know, viewership.
And then, yeah, as this point of an ending, there was there's a lot of fans, you know, who were pissed off.
Not all of them are not and not none of them, but there were a lot.
And how better to voice in unison or as a collective that you're pissed off with the show?
Well, they're not all going to go outside fucking D&D's house.
I'm talking like they live together.
They're not going to go outside their house and pitch with pitchforks and go, right.
A better show like that. No.
And like most people, you know, most people, when it comes to well petitioning anything, they're lazy.
And they just literally want to click side.
You know, I've voiced my opinion.
And this is what what hundreds of thousands of people did.
What else do you want from them?
And then he's going to reference the last Jedi now, because, you know, I bet he's going to make fun, too.
Well, do they think they were going to get a new film as well?
Oh, I don't know.
Oui, I think it's jumpy.
I don't believe they deserve something to go.
Wait, apparently we need to go.
I always jump in so far ahead.
What's together is misbehaving today.
I really don't know.
I swear it's like somebody's like hitting a keyboard, but it's not me.
And well, we know it's not you or Gary.
This is the skit in the video.
He's just trying to pass me skit.
Worthless pizza hunter.
He's just he's just he's just clicking on it.
Go, come on, hurry up.
And therefore, I don't think it was overly harmful for anyone involved.
I guess that the petition was purely made as a way to bring people together
as a statement in hatred of Game of Thrones season eight.
That's OK. Why I need it to be an actual petition.
I don't know. I guess they're inspired by the success of the last.
He just falls on it.
Like, how else would they have done it then?
Like, how else would everyone come together to show their collective hate for the show?
Oh, well, they like to write emails.
You can write emails or letters to HBO, but they don't you know, they don't get a visual.
The point is that it's a visual feedback with how many people who would join it
because assuming, well, you're going on, you know, the assumption
there's no bottle involved or anything because nobody's that sad to like
get bought side of the petition for that anyway, or hopefully not.
I imagine every petition for the success will probably have some.
But I know, I know, I know.
There's always going to be. Yeah.
But the point is, you know, you know, it's not a Russia gate, you know,
the not fucking pumping millions of votes into it to disrupt something.
What else does he want?
Honestly, I don't know.
I guess he's just trying to say it's it's utterly what would he do?
Ultimately pointless, I guess, is what he's trying to say.
But if everyone went on to on to Twitter
and then just abused all the actors and actresses, what would you do?
If it would not be better.
No, he's just he wants to complain about it.
I don't know what I'm going to use.
Yeah, his argument going like, I don't even know where the hell he's going.
He's going somewhere to the point where we don't deserve this.
Does the length of the video not imply to you that this is a video
that he was just like, I'll throw some shit together.
I don't know. I've got to make it over.
That is almost exactly 10 minutes. That's true.
Even if it was set up as a statement rather than a serious petition,
there would still be thousands upon thousands of people who signed it,
believing something could come of it.
What is actually wrong with that, by the way?
Like hoping something would actually change.
I think that's fair.
If someone was like, yeah, I hope it actually sends a message
because I'd really like the characters to get the endings they deserve.
But this guy's like, idiot.
Yeah, it'd be cool if that somebody actually did that once or if we get,
you know, maybe like Disney sees the reaction on the Internet
from just the hint of Spider-Man 4 and maybe they go out and, you know,
this is why a lot of things come back.
You know, yeah.
You know, we got a Firefly movie out of a lot of people coming together.
And obviously Sonic is changing up the design after. Yeah.
Yeah. Fucking family guy got resurrected like like five times.
You got a family guy.
You sound like my mouth is already gone.
Cool. I'm going to leave it.
All right.
I ain't fixing shit.
As long as you can see, as long as you understand me, I don't care anymore.
How does it keep jumping ahead?
Thousands upon thousands of people who signed it,
believing something could come of it, believing they deserve something to come of it.
Like here's a sample of some.
Dizzoo is an interesting word.
Well, he's just a straggling out of his fucking ass now
because I assume some of them probably have strange intentions
and I'm going to criticize those theoretical people.
You're like, OK, well, this is a straw man in one on one.
He's just picking up a nameless, voiceless name, personless person.
Just go, oh, yeah, I'll daily deserve it.
Who said they deserved it?
Like if there was like a big YouTuber who was making videos on it
saying the fans deserve better, then he could quote somebody else or something.
But he's literally taking the fucking petition.
Oh, this is this is almost as weak as the fucking Hollywood reporter survey thing.
Yep. Now I want to make a video saying I deserve a better team of thrones season eight.
I personally need to deliver one to my house.
I almost want to make a straw poll for this.
Who thinks they deserve better?
Season. Yeah, do we deserve a better season?
Yes, the petition.
We need Sir George RR Martin to complete what he's doing.
And according to his orders, the season should be done again.
It's not too late to do the right thing.
Apparently he got that.
No, this is somebody just, you know, well, treating him like a god or whatever thing.
And it's not going to happen.
It's not rude or ridiculous to sign the petition.
Our opinions matter.
We are the ones who buy.
This is a really long comment, but why the fuck did you start reading it?
He's pulling him out at random while he's doing his video.
Apparently, he's like, oh, it's long.
Damn. Yeah.
I'm starting the petition because I started a binge almost a month ago
and have gotten too far into the series to be let down.
I don't want these two anywhere near Star Wars either.
This was abysmal.
But I thought Ryan Johnson ruined Star Wars already.
How do you know that guy feels that way?
It's the real funny joke.
It doesn't matter.
Fred Johnson ruined Star Wars.
They can ruin it as well.
Yeah, I think if anything we've learned with Predator, Alien and Terminator
is ruining it isn't something you can only do once.
You can do it again and again and again.
You can be killed a million times.
I could say I get hired by Disney and I hated Star Wars.
I could be like, I want to make an episode called episode six point five.
And it takes place an hour after episode six.
And it'll just be Ewoks running around and fucking
just just just beating up all of the main characters for a reason.
And then they all run away crying and everyone's like, what is this movie?
And I'm like, this is canon.
Well, he's doing the same argumentation as you did earlier where our season
seven was bad, so why would you care if season eight was bad?
It's just not great. Great. Nice, mate.
Play just forgotten.
Biggest letdown in television history.
Get better writers.
I unfortunately, I had to watch this to know it needs redoing.
That made no sense.
Which just to be clear, you could set up a full on go fund me
to pay the actors, writers, animators and everything.
And it still wouldn't happen for so many reasons.
One, never has a petition like this been successful.
If something has never happened before, it never can.
That is that is true for everything, right, guys?
This is unfortunate.
He's already identified what the point of the petition was.
And now he's just literally going, oh, you're idiots.
You thought this was going to be legit.
Oh, yeah, like this whole portion of the video is responding
to the theoretical people that think it'll make a huge difference
that he's already admitted may very well not exist.
I drag him up.
Please go find these people who will literally believe in that petition.
I think it's going to happen.
Please go find one.
He's crushing my dreams right now.
I really thought it was going to happen.
This is a big reveal.
You know, I mean, we crushed my well, my my the best of my 2019
with the fucking news about Terminator.
Yeah, you've killed 20 nights.
You're welcome.
Merry Christmas to claim all the internet hated on Sonic enough
for them to change his design and delay the movie.
Why can't they do the same for season eight?
These are two completely different kinds of.
Oh, so it's yes.
I can't make this argument.
You've just admitted that the change can happen through public outcry.
Yeah, yeah.
The son of the trailer or a teaser of the game is
literally the end of an eight year old show.
Oh, come on.
And this ever it can never happen except for the time it happened.
Yeah, but that's not the same because Sonic is a hedgehog.
And this is about a chair.
Is like he's compared it to like if they made a petition for like,
you know, say like, oh, I don't like that.
Janie's hair is not this color.
It should be this color.
Now make it, you know, come on.
Well, one was the laughing stock of basically the entire world
for a few weeks, look set to flop with the box office
and therefore the measures taken seemed necessary.
The other, while also being laughed at and attacked,
still achieved record viewing numbers.
There it is because people are invested.
You dipshit of the problem.
People are watching it because they love it.
And now they're like, oh.
This reminds me of the whole Last Jedi things like Last Jedi is bad.
Did you see how much money it made?
It's like that's not an argument.
Well, that's it. You should never the people who use.
Oh, well, you know, if it's so bad, how come so many people watch it?
Or how come so many people play it?
It's always a terrible argument.
You should never use it.
It will. It will never.
It is. It's like when people are doing to like, oh, you know,
like, oh, GTA five was a flop.
I was like, this is the best selling thing ever.
It's like, but oh, but it did.
But it's a bad game.
But that's not that was not your argument.
You were saying it was a flop. Oh, come on.
The will to be fab is unaware of that.
I'll have to tell that. I know. I know.
We will. We will have well, it will be tales of the fact
that it be tales of more or something.
It's funny though, because we covered the down with thrust video
that it was GTA five. Did it fail?
And it was like, no.
No, it is literally the best biggest selling piece of media ever.
Yeah. Nothing comes.
Nothing beats it. Nothing.
Did it fail?
Oh, there were nineteen point three million viewers watching it
as it premiered just in a game.
You know what, Gary, if you heard this one where they go,
the boycott slash criticism of Captain Marvel didn't work
because it made over a billion dollars all the time.
Isn't that a great argument?
It means that they knew like a wizard.
They knew that the only amount of money that Captain Marvel could make
was capped at one billion and it made it.
So it's it's amazing how they did that.
And the person who said I'm not going to go see it as a boycott,
their ticket never would have made it into that number anyway.
They would have been hit by a car.
That was always going to happen.
They were never going to make it.
And obviously the movie was good.
We were all wrong.
I mean, it was just a good movie.
And it was the Russian bots that convinced me that it was a bad movie.
Transformers franchise taught us anything.
Good films make a lot of money.
That's it. They do.
That's how it works.
You are good films.
That's why I love that quote from Mark Hamill, where he's like
he's like says one for one.
It's like, it doesn't matter if it's good,
but whether it makes money, it's like, oof.
America, that's like sporting event level views.
Kind of. Not really.
I mean, the point I'm trying to make is that they made their money.
So why would they feel the need to remake it?
Just because a few fans were disappointed in the game.
Just a few fans.
It's pointed to you already pointed out in the opening.
Why can't people with a use fucking empirical evidence
use empirical evidence?
This is a few fans, like three.
It's like three disgruntled fans in a basement.
So he's already established the number here.
The petition I like, you know,
I like I don't know about anyone here, but I didn't sign it.
And I fucking hated it.
So it's like, you know, this this I'm going to go on a bet
and say there's like, you know, there's probably thousands
if not not millions, but hundreds of thousands will go for that.
We'll go for hundreds of thousands of fans who watched it, hated it.
But they just, you know, they didn't get on the internet
or anything to bitch about it.
They just went on with their lives, you know?
But no, no, there's only a few, only a few, only a few.
If each of these 1.6 million people
just chose not to watch the episode,
they'd have definitely noticed the impact more.
I do get why people who knew they were going to hate it
watched it anyway, because, well, that's what being a fan is.
You've invested so much time and so many years.
So you actually know then you actually are aware of what a fan is.
Oh, I'm proud of him for making that argument because I
you've actually noticed that these people are human
and they're actually invested in hate the whole life.
If you already did like it, why did you keep watching it?
If you didn't like episode three, why watch four?
If you didn't like episode four as well, why watch five?
I was like, what are you?
Why is that? I was like, yeah.
The show, you're not just going to not watch the ending
because you know you're not going to like it.
You want to know how it ends.
I guess that brings me to point to some fans actually did like the ending.
Oh, no, I already know that.
Yes, I like what he acknowledges, though.
It's the sub. It's not the many.
He's like, yes, you're right.
If he does drag in a Hollywood rapport.
Like I particularly fit into this group.
I often find myself defending things that I think are getting overhated
and therefore come off as if I love it.
Don Snow's ending was perfect.
Don't at me. Ooh.
Don Snow's ending was perfect where everyone forgot his lineage.
No one cared about him and they shoveled him off to the north.
OK. Oh, you're still watching this pizza.
Where did you go?
I went to go get a pizza.
Why? I thought you order them.
How did you?
Well, I didn't want to order it.
I didn't want to leave a tip.
So I go. Wow.
Do you hear that, guys?
Stingy wolf.
Not only how to leave a tip if I if I don't want to tip that day,
then I'll just go pick it up myself.
Wow.
I should tip for pizzas.
Yes. This is a weird American thing.
Tipping for pizza.
It's like everything.
I know. I know.
I used to work pizza delivery.
So yeah, it's kind of nice.
No, no, no, no, I'm not I'm not saying that you're wrong.
Well, you know, it's not good to get tips.
I'm not saying that.
Well, I'm saying that in America's culture of tipping for every service imaginable
is well, it's it's frankly retarded.
But all right.
I mean, I hear in San Bernardino, they'll figure it in your bill now.
Yeah, I was going to say it's it's almost down.
Oh, I'm aware that, you know, people who work
service level jobs in, well, America get ship pay and therefore can't, you know,
well, they have to rely on if you're like a waiter or waitress, you're making
like, I know they are. I know they are.
All right. Well, I'm not about to turn it to be something I make sure it's really well,
because after I'm sorry, I mentioned it.
I'm sorry. I mentioned it.
I wish I was Asian.
Alex was like the delivery is the the way it works in Britain
is typically the job wouldn't necessarily require it.
While in America, it seems to me that the tipping is done so often
that now jobs payment is almost accounted for tips.
Well, yeah, they underpay you because they know that the customers will cover it.
Yeah. And when I used to work delivery, I mean, I had to use my own car
and that you're putting a lot of wear and tear on your car when you're doing that.
So those tips can affect I know I totally think I'm not
I'm not criticizing you for being a pizza man anymore.
Thank God. No, no, no, no.
All right. Well, I hope not. But yeah, no, I got out of there
as soon as I possibly could.
But I know you don't want to finish this video.
I don't want to finish this video, but we need to go Wolf's take.
So he said Jon Snow's ending was perfect.
What do you reckon?
Excuse me. Oh, well, there you go.
Yeah, we'll go get go get dips that pizza you're going to need in it.
Hey, I don't have dips, but I don't have the pizza.
Find myself defending things that I think are getting overhated
and therefore come off as if I love it.
And I tried not to do that.
I really haven't succeeded.
However, there are a lot of people, probably not as many as those who hated it,
who really enjoyed the final season and therefore remaking it
would be a complete insult.
No, they can keep their tismy season.
They can have it.
Well, they don't have to watch it.
In fact, call the remake and expect call the remake eight point five.
Do whatever you call it.
The not eight season.
I don't really care.
No, all right.
Let's talk hypothetically.
If hypothetically that sees the eight slash seven slash whatever season
you want to remain got remade and you as a fan were satisfied with how it ended.
You don't have to watch it unless you carry on.
But if they did get remade or if the whole show got remade
or the just the one season and the fans who were left bitter and disgruntled
about it, they might well, you know, with good will as well.
I think, you know, they could come back and try it.
But we know that's not going to happen because it is a it is a very
long stretch of a hypothetical.
But what the fuck is he going on with this?
So what if they make a petition?
We just get stuck in a never ending loop, which is why as a business,
this just wouldn't be a profitable decision for HBO.
Not only would it make less money than we get it, but also you can't please everyone.
Oh, I love his argumentation.
It really just comes.
You can't please everyone is the most boring argument I've ever heard
when it comes to media criticism.
He had the money to contradict himself with this.
And then he's just leaving us with fucking platitudes.
What is this?
You can't please everyone else.
The full cycle.
Is you explain why the fans don't deserve it?
Is it is it because that they were retarded for thinking that a petition
would come for real? Oh, my God.
That fucking I like to think that's his reaction to see a guest covering him.
No. Yeah, I just you know, like I get you guys are criticizing this video,
but it was never going to please everybody.
So. Well, he's certainly not going to get that million view hit again.
He's chasing unfortunate.
Just because something you made wasn't popular with all your fans
doesn't mean you should go back to square one and make it again.
I don't know. Maybe that's a good practice.
If I was writing a series of stories and the final one I released,
all I got like was like 90 percent like, please don't let this be the end.
Please do blah, blah, blah.
I would reconsider it.
I'd be like, oh, how would you guys feel if I decanonize that last one I wrote
rewrote? I don't know.
I know it's like this is the thing I really think about this.
I mean, I think we were talking about how shitty the expert movies are earlier,
but isn't that kind of what Fox tried to do at first with first class
and days of future past like retcon the shit? I mean,
I imagine that was just them being like, we want to refresh our resources.
It's like we want to make young visions of everybody in retail.
So we've got plenty to work with at that point.
I don't think it was like a retcon.
It's almost treated different timelines.
I don't like, you know, a couple of other things do it.
But, you know, it is relatively unheard of.
You would never I actually thought TLJ would be one of the best times
to finally do it, like let's get a new TLJ
because you've missed out on so many things that you should have done
and that story is completely garbage.
It's like it was great work by a lot of people who are involved
like production stuff, but keep the film remake it.
Well, you won't make money and you'll get reinvest the fans
that have just now been completely pissed off.
And you know, it never happened because I just don't expect it to.
Because there's a lot of legal reasons,
probably a lot of IP reasons, timing reasons and actors.
And just there's so many things to redo that it's kind of a ridiculous concept.
And I think a lot of people would consider it like not a good bet.
Like producers would be like remake it.
You can't do that.
Like people won't be as interested because, you know, we've we had our shot.
We've taken it, you know, remade.
But yeah, if we're going not from a perspective of money making
and just a perspective of like integrity, then yeah, theoretically,
this would be a scenario where this is totally a good idea.
It's a good thing to do.
Look at this entire summer and every sequel that we've had ever.
I mean, they go back to the well to to not think that you can go back
to the well, this early is ridiculous at this point.
Why not? I'm waiting for it to happen.
This probably has happened to some lesser degree
with with maybe a lesser known thing, but just try again.
Why not? Why not?
Tell me. Why not?
Just do it.
If I made a video that got loads of dislikes and hate comments,
I wouldn't set out to remake that video to prove the people who didn't like it wrong.
That doesn't even what in the world are you talking about?
Oh, no.
Your videos aren't your videos aren't a work of fiction or narrative.
I was going to say, well, yeah.
But even if we treat it as just an opinion piece, right.
So if he said, I don't know, this thing is bad because of this reason,
then it turns out that reason was faulty.
So he rereleases a follow up video to be like, you know what?
I changed my mind on it completely.
I've knew this.
I reaffirmed this, blah, blah, blah.
Like, wouldn't that count?
Yeah.
But again, what a false equivalency.
Like, what the hell are you talking about?
Redo it a YouTube video that people.
I mean, I've seen people redo YouTube videos before.
I'm pretty sure that's happened.
Yeah, well, if you well, if you've been on YouTube long enough
and you do and you're like, you know, your kind of content is like vlogs
and you're talking about, like, you know, politics or whatever,
you're bound to fucking change your opinion on something within like,
you know, well, a year, five years, 10 years.
It's the way it's not.
Well, it wouldn't be down to fan outcry.
Maybe, you know, fans would be like, oh, you're so wrong on this topic.
Yeah, you need it.
You need to research it more.
And then you research it and you're like, oh, actually, yes.
You know, I was wrong.
And this is now my new position on it.
Oh, whatever.
It's fine.
I would just move on and pink doggy.
Make other videos that are different to that video.
I'm just one person.
There are teams of people working on this show, which number three,
believe it or not, the people who work on the show are paid.
Oh, my God.
I don't want to hear about that whining.
God, I just listened to the Miguel Sapochnik interview.
And I like the guy, but he get like they're working a frickin coal mine.
You were getting paid hundreds of thousands, some millions to make a pretend show.
You were and and you were talking about how hard it was.
And he had to work at night.
Oh, yeah.
So what?
Also, they were paid handsomely.
Is that Mr.
Purcell with the sunglasses to bring him an absolute sheet of background?
No, but he's just a guy who works on the show, I guess.
But I like that comparison.
Yeah, the idea that
if you just had someone build you a house and they work day in, day out
in horrible condition, but the thing itself, it just it just breaks at the end
because you didn't build it properly.
And then you're like, this is fucking shit.
And he's like, excuse me.
I worked really hard on this.
You're like, OK, what a person.
Yeah, I'm so pleased for you, but do it again.
And you know what?
This the funny scenario here is that you go like, do the house again.
I will pay you again.
They're offended by that concept.
You're like, you've made money.
I don't know what.
Not only does that mean the actors, most notably,
you probably have other things they want to do with their lives.
They don't have to agree to do a remake.
The assumption is that everyone's on board.
You wouldn't slave them into it.
It's not even legal.
What is this?
Well, it is going to keep batting down that hypothetical until it fucking
well to the next 10 minutes with a video.
I'm just waiting for him to make that comparison.
He's like, go into these actors houses.
You kidnap them to make your show.
That's disgusting.
You'd be like, who are you talking to?
But if you're going to actually remake it, I would start from the ground up and
replace everybody or else you're going to get the same turd.
Oh, you mean with the old actually remade, I would get new writers,
new directors, everything.
I would keep the set.
You get the new actors and you bring, if you're going to actually remake it,
you do not remake it with the same people.
Definition of insanity will just get the same result.
And if you listen to that Miguel, I told you about it.
They were tired at the end that you could clearly hear that Dan and Dave and the
directors involved, they only wanted to work with a certain amount of people.
They didn't want to bring in anybody new because they were familiar with them.
And all these people were effing tired.
And that's all they kept every person I hear in an interview.
We were so tired and you can hear them making decisions in the interest of
getting the F out of there out a bunch of good stuff that they were going to put
into the episode and when you consider seriously didn't like where they led her
character, Jamie has expressed that he disagreed with them at many turns.
Tyrion thinks Tyrion was stupid.
You know, I'm just saying their names quickly.
Obviously they have people names too.
Arya and her boyfriend thought it was stupid.
Like would you collect all these up?
Even the actor for Euron said he would have preferred to play the book Euron.
And that even dentists don't like it.
Even have you seen the quote where the actor for Euron says,
someone asks him, why is it that he was so accurate in episode four,
but so inaccurate in episode five?
And he says something like, well, it's for the plot.
It's just like, OK, yep.
Well, my point is that all of these people,
you possibly could remake it with them and you'll end up with something much better
because they seem to have wanted much better.
But I mean, I if you're going to remake season eight, keep the actors.
If you're going to remake the entire thing,
yeah, I'd probably go to say scratch it all and get all new everything.
Ah, sure. Being Charles Dance, I'll keep them. Cheers.
All right, fine. I'll keep Charles Dance.
I mean, I think the cast wouldn't keep anybody else.
Maybe. Yeah, I feel like you'd be able to get cast is really good.
Cast was great.
And here's like, who would you ever replace Tyrion with?
Like you can't.
Peter Dinklage is really the only good midget actor in existence.
I was going to say it's a bit it's a bit limited for if you guys familiar
with midget actors, I don't know.
I don't know how many can act like Peter Dinklage.
I don't know that you're going to this.
There's once upon a time he didn't have a job to do.
You know, you probably did you hear of him before Game of Thrones?
Yes. Well, that's lucky for you.
A lot of people didn't.
My point is that there's probably a lot.
Why the fuck did you just assume there's one good dwarf actor?
Could you name even a single?
I don't have to.
I don't have to name all of the good actors that I've never heard of.
I was going to say what I like, Warwick Davis, but yeah.
I don't think you want to.
It doesn't it doesn't matter what to do with.
Re-stays or whatever, like in all the rings, you could just do that if they wanted to.
Perspective. There you go.
Yeah, yeah, they are.
You know, unless you think you just do that, I think the I think it benefited them
actually hiring an actual dwarf because it works.
Sandy DeVito.
They're the doctor, by the way.
They could they could save the show if they did that, honestly.
Charles Dance is the master.
Tom Cruise. Tom Cruise.
Refinishes show they've spent the last 10 years working on.
It also means the writers, David and Dan would be friends with people who worked on this show,
meaning even if HBO agreed to make the show with new writers,
I have no idea how they'd convince everyone to say yes.
There's no. The assumption is that they would. OK.
The whole point of this hypothetical is that these things, if you go,
are you guys trying to push for a remake when it might not be possible?
It's like, um, we already know it might not be possible.
What the hell? So to summarise his title, is it literally
you don't deserve because you're all stupid for thinking that this petition was real
and also the actors of people, too?
I guess. I'm curious if he's going to have some kind of closing statement for that one.
And that's the minute? No.
Using Game of Thrones is a prime and relevant example.
There are so many other instances of this entitlement
where people think they have ownership of something just because they're a fat.
You've got The Last Jedi, which basically got the exact same treatment
as this with petitions for it to be remade.
I'm pretty sure there was a GoFundMe to remake it.
I can't remember.
I like them Zooms like it's like a stand in for humor.
Is that a joke?
I don't know.
Yeah, the zoom in covers for humor.
I think Zooms are like you have a little sign that says applause or laugh.
It's like, oh, shit, we're supposed to laugh at this.
It reminds me of when Jeb Bush was like, please clap.
Clap. You're not entitled to be entertained
when you pay for media to entertain you.
Clap.
Hmm.
Hey, it was funny.
It was really funny.
You got them.
All right. All right.
This is this is carry on.
But Brie Larson, who I recently made a whole video about,
whether a petition to get her fired fan edits of end game where she's not in it.
I don't like that people have perspectives.
I like that he's just highlighted.
Yeah, people are passionate.
They care about this.
This is why this shit makes millions of dollars.
What did he get here?
Is he are we going to get climate change in Brexit next?
I think so.
That's how this all ties in.
Because I almost think this is satire because it's so sexist.
Even whoa, what's higher?
Because I missed the point where it became sexist.
Hang on.
It's because in that petition for the re-edit of end game,
it also had like reduction of female characters in the last battle,
including Pepper Potts, because she has no place in there.
That was one of the things.
I mean, I think she has more of a place in there than a lot of them do.
Well, if you play it and then pause it on the moment,
he does, you can steal the bit.
Brie Larson, who I recently made a whole video about,
whether a petition to get her fired fan edits of end game where she's not in it.
That's it. Yeah.
So women in final battle reduced in particular.
Yeah, I don't even agree with that statement.
I would lose the all women moment.
It was really forced and awkward.
You don't need to do that.
Just have the women be badass.
You don't need the female sorceress, get scared of Hulk
and just gives him the stone, right?
Why would that happen?
This isn't even good at it.
Female sorceress gets scared of Hulk.
Dude, dude, wait, why don't they just skip?
Do you see them?
I just reading through Tony doesn't meet his dad.
Thor doesn't meet his mom.
It's pointless.
Wait, fuck playing for me.
It's at nine twenty two.
Where are you guys at?
It's so sexist.
Now you just said it's so sexist.
Yeah, but she's not in it because I'm fifteen.
OK, now it's paused.
OK, good. Yeah.
Tony meeting his dad and Hulk Thor meeting his mom.
Apparently those are pointless.
They're like some of the best bits of the film, but sure.
Yeah, Black Panther is the first revived adventure to arrive.
It gets a bit less time again.
I just realized who knows where he pulled this from, you know?
Uh, he probably wrote it himself.
Yeah. Yeah.
4chan.
Well, yeah, he's got the two in general,
whenever it felt like Marvel was sniffing its own farts.
I'm sorry, which which part?
I don't understand.
I don't know what that means.
No, no, sexist.
Even J.K. Rowling, who I've been vocal about,
disagreeing with the direction she's taking with Harry Potter,
has been taught to do with Harry Potter so much
that I genuinely think she quit Twitter.
She hasn't tweeted since March.
At the end of the day, even though I disagree with her,
I'm just a fan and it's her story.
So it's her choice.
What she does with it, I understand.
What does this have to do with anything?
I'm sorry. What does J.K. Rowling have to do with that?
Her choice, how she fucks up her own stuff at that.
We're supposed to say that for duty, I guess, too.
Well, yeah, he's just opened the fucking Pandora's box there
because he's completely negated or ignored what George R.
Martin thinks about anything to do with the show.
But J.K. Rowling talking about her own intellectual property.
Yeah, that's all right.
I guess he would argue the D&D stuff is key.
Every time you talk, I just think that the mouth of Sauron is talking to me.
And it's like this is like the most euphoric thing I've ever witnessed.
Good. Then you will listen carefully.
Some people don't, which is what I made this video for.
And if you enjoyed it, make sure to leave a like.
Special thanks to Jack Kyle.
I went to go get pizza and played my Nintendo Switch
instead of watching them.
I bet you did.
I know you did, actually, but that was awful.
Chad, is there?
Chad, I have a legitimate question.
Is there like some thing on soup?
Not Super Mario, Super Smash Bros,
where I could test out the controls rather than having to just figure them out?
Because that would be very helpful.
Because I mean, like a practice mode.
There's got to be something in there.
Yeah, because I can't find the other ones had like practice modes.
Just yeah, I feel like there should be one.
I've seen it.
Can't you just set up a set up a game against you and a bot
and put the bot to like a level one?
That should be someone you should be able to do.
I have no idea.
I haven't played a Super Smash game.
You're a terrible person forever.
All right.
Everyone said yes.
Which what's it called?
Everyone's saying training mode.
I don't see.
What can you say?
Well, I could.
But I'm also eating lazy.
I know.
It's lazy.
Just just fucking.
OK, look at all the modes.
You will think about how well I have got to bow.
I'm afraid.
I mean, it is journalist mode.
It is getting late and I am desperate for food.
And I need to sleep.
Eat and sleep.
Well, right.
Tootle pip.
Yes, you know, you need more training.
It has to be fun.
And only enough, guys, I might actually pick up.
Was it?
Oh, shit.
What's the first book in the expanse called?
Leviathan Wakes.
Yes, I might actually just pick that up and just say,
I might give it another chance to see if it can if it can blow me away.
The first one is good, right?
The first one, I listened to it very recently and kind of like
a between like a six and a seven out of ten.
Oh, all right.
But it was like really, really awesome.
Book three is pretty plotting.
Book four picks up and then everything after.
But that's right.
As long as you as long as you don't tell me,
I have to what you have to like read the first five books like like it.
Oh, that's that's why I can I can I can work with.
It's cool.
It's, you know, the third one's a bit.
But yeah, like for me, if a book doesn't catch me in the first 100 or so pages
and I just don't I just don't.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
So if I was going to be like that for this, yeah, I'm not doing it.
But I'm going to try.
I know I'll read it.
I'll let you guys know later.
I would actually suggest like listening to the audio book because it's excellent.
They are good.
Well, if I like it that much, I will.
Yeah, I mean, if it's not your thing, then it's not your thing.
But I believe it is.
It's great.
I do read a lot.
So it's not like, oh, this is me.
I don't read normally this is hard work.
It's like, no, if I like it, I'll blitz for it.
Anyway, yeah, it's been good hanging out again.
Thank you very much.
Talk to you guys later.
Bye, mouth.
Goodbye.
Oh, goodbye.
I don't. Oh, shit.
I need a quote. Fuck.
I need to quote the ballot on shit.
Um, give me a quote.
Hold on.
I shall find I want to hear what the mouth of Sauron sounds like fighting the Balrog.
Oh, did you see as well?
I actually added the dawn to the emotes for the chat.
So you can just post an angelic dawn with the member thing.
Don't be with you.
And I'll do one for James Moore.
Brother, avenge me.
Oh, well, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, Wolf.
I got to go.
Talk to us. Goodbye, mouth of Sauron. Goodbye.
And for people who are like,
why do you never promote Alex's channel?
He doesn't have one.
Wolf hasn't read any of the books.
He gets a vast majority of facts wrong about the books.
Oh, it's Anthony Warren.
No wonder.
Is that is that a person you regularly say?
Anthony Warren is this little faggot that thinks that I'm racist
because I say that things he doesn't like.
Oh, do you?
Yeah, he's a cunt.
So anyway, I'm not saying that you should kill yourself or anything,
but I mean, everyone would really be that terribly sad about it.
And you've got oofs in the chat as well as lots of dawn faces.
So it's really a mixed message.
Anyway, these are eight things we've been getting wrong
about Game of Thrones season eight.
You know, this is from what culture as well,
which are essentially British watch mojo in a way.
Yes, I actually subscribe to these people.
I'm the only books Wolf likes are the kind that are flat
and covered in cheese and tomato sauce.
Don't forget the pepperoni.
Oh, hey, I ordered a pizza. You made me hungry.
It's a meme that every time I myself, I'm going to get a pizza.
Well, hello there, everybody.
What culture is Adam clear here and what's this video called again?
I'm sorry, eight, eight things.
Everyone is getting wrong about Game of Thrones
and they're all in general.
Well, the thing is, he says Game of Thrones in the title,
but I'm pretty sure this is about season eight.
OK, can we all just calm down for a bit?
You see, as season eight has rumbled on and on and on and on,
the conversations around Game of Thrones have descended
into such bedlam that the last half hour of the bells was pretty much just
why is it the people of Tria this way?
Is like people wading through like online discussions
terrified of whatever was being said?
It's just like, is it hard to just read criticisms or watch videos?
I mean, I make unbridled rages and I don't think that they're exactly
not, you know, like rabid or anything.
They seem in calm.
Plus, we're not forcing them on anybody.
I like, you know, he can.
It's very easy for me or you not to appear in his feed anywhere.
I mean, he has to actually click play on our video,
has to see it in a recommended feature somewhere.
You have to actually find us.
So, yeah, just if it's too hard for you.
I mean, like, seriously, if it's bothering you that much,
get a little help because it's just criticism.
And I just like the idea, like, say I'm on one of your streams
and we're just casually talking about how they've damaged Daenerys.
And then he's just in the comment section, like, can we calm down?
I mean, you're like, oh, what?
Raise my voice.
OK.
We're going to say something else that as well, I think I got you off.
Oh, no, I was just saying I never raised my voice.
I try to be calm in the chat.
I've done it every once in a while, but not enough to the degree
that someone needs to burst into the room and say, hey, you need to calm down.
It's a recreation of Twitter on a Monday.
People are just so, so, so angry about the direction the show is going in.
When you boil all of these major complaints down, it's basically just
it's broken all of its own rules.
Characters are doing things they wouldn't do.
And stories are going in directions.
They shouldn't be going on with one episode left.
The goddamn telegraph have called it broken beyond all repair.
But I mean, one episode could not.
OK, well, I don't know what the telegraph is.
But one episode could not fix that.
Oh, I remember.
Looks upset. It looks genuine.
Well, what looks upset?
He does. Oh, yeah, he's you can tell he probably liked the season.
It's probably the motivation behind it.
We're like, God damn it, people.
Is it like, don't get me wrong.
It's a long, long, long way from being perfect.
But this is a TV show, arguably the most scrutinized TV show.
Don't you mean arguably, arguably the most scrutinized?
Maybe I don't know.
Oh, most TV shows scrutinized as much.
I mean, their favorite fans scrutinize them.
You know, it seems like a weird, I guess, for theories and stuff. Yeah.
Depends on how I guess he's using the word, but.
It's really not even a bad thing, right?
Harsed out, but it's not yet scrutinized.
Yeah, I always kind of found that as a bit of a negative, though.
I think people would just dug into the show and love it.
I don't think it was getting a lot of criticism until recently.
I think a couple of seasons.
I think it has like a negative connotation, but I'm pretty sure it literally
is just like going through it excessively and being like fine combed tooth.
Tooth comb. That's what it's made for.
It's against.
That's what it's there for.
It is meant to have theories and it was built on people having viewing
parties at bars and Reddit threads and stuff.
That's why it is what it is.
So is this all of a sudden it's a negative when it goes bad?
Well, that's, you know, it seems natural when you have an amazingly detailed
backed up story that gets scrutinized, you'll be having people
create channels that absorb their lives covering it.
But nobody complains about that.
Nobody's saying, like, guys, calm down.
It's just a TV show.
Do you remember this was a wolf?
This was like Patrick Willems saying.
Stop furiously hating the last Jedi.
It's made for kids.
And then you're like, but you passionately love it.
So are you allowed to do that as well?
Or is that, you know?
Like passionately love, you're going to be like,
why do you passionately love this so much?
It's made for kids.
Yeah, it's a little weird.
Both ways or do we not?
It's only when it's a negative feeling.
That's when it's you've gone too far.
Yeah.
Entry, it's eighth and final season.
It was never, ever going to end in a way that satisfied absolutely everybody.
But now it feels like there's this big group of fans who are confusing.
This doesn't work with this isn't what I wanted.
All right.
Let's get these arguments out of the way that it's going to be great.
And yes, I know.
I know you're really angry about it all.
But let's just look.
Let's just mean you as to you.
Really good, mate.
Just go through all the big complaints.
We're not good mates, buddy.
Try and work out if they're on board with this premise.
But I don't think it's going to go that the way he wants it to be.
If they're actually true.
Let's look at what we wanted to happen and what has actually happened
and then just work out whether or not it's good or the same.
OK, it's just it's a much, much better way to live your life.
No, compared to what?
What is he referencing is the bad way to do it.
It's not as good without D&D writing it.
Already, you're wrong.
It's not as good with D&D writing.
Wait, wait, someone made this argument.
It's not as good with D&D.
They were always writing it.
Wait, I think I thought without writing that and I was like, oh, wait.
Now I'm confused.
Yeah, I need him to.
That is without D8.
Well, what about George R.
Martin writing books?
So so the idea is he's responding to arguments.
And if someone said the show isn't as good with D&D writing it, I'd be like,
do they mean as a whole or do they mean future?
What are they talking about?
It's not as good.
It's not as good.
Now, Benioff and Weiss are writing it.
All right.
So quickly, before we start virtually, every single thing on this list is going
to be like a subjective thing that people are saying.
And we're trying out a bit more context to to see if it either
softens or shifts your viewpoint.
But this one, this one we're starting with.
This is a matter of fact.
There seems to be some genuine confusion amongst fans about the books
relationship to the TV show, the books, and specifically how the writing of the
ladder is Canadian or British for the fall.
I was definitely British.
I like ask most people who has written Game of Thrones, the telly show,
and they'll say, well, it was George RR Martin for a long time.
But now it's these two dogs to be absolutely categorically 100 percent clear
on this, David Benioff and D.B.
Rice write the show with George RR Martin working in a consulting.
I've not known anyone to make the argument that it got bad once they took over.
I don't know anybody who's ever said this.
Who in the world thought that George RR Martin was the one writing the show?
I mean, he wrote a couple of episodes, right?
Yeah, and he and he hasn't been a consultant for years.
Yeah, he's been out of the consulting.
He's to have been the lead writers.
How could he possibly make this argument?
They make all the final decisions.
OK, so people will write a script.
Other people will.
But they go over that script, add whatever they like and take out whatever they like,
because they are the showrunners and they give the story.
So they have a story that they wrote that they hand off and somebody fills in with
some dialogue and then they fix it.
So, yes, they are still the writers.
Nobody, they haven't gone away.
Like, can you think of anyone in the world who has ever made this argument?
It's really like it's like eight reasons why I don't know.
Just just lost finale was better than you think that you just go.
It didn't kill every single character by spending them guys.
Sorry, Mallard, my pizza's here.
I can't be right back.
Everybody's getting pizza.
Mallard's sitting on his lonely island without a pizza.
I should I should just draw one better than nothing.
Draw people.
I can get cynics next year.
You can just eat him.
Yeah, what a weird argument to start with.
It's like, guys, it was written by D&D like, all right.
I'm glad we've established that.
I'm glad we have reestablished the thing that we've known since day one.
Thank you.
This. Yes, there are just people I have of all the things you can say
to try and defend season eight.
You start off with D&D wrote it.
Really? You don't say
if you had one guy saying, you know, it was so much better when George had it.
They took over in season six and that's where it all went bad or something like
that. I just be like, all right, yeah, that guy's an idiot.
I guess they sometimes do that.
And you're always like, why why even bother responding to that argument?
Like. Are we still on this?
Yes, what argument are we on now?
That was true in season one.
It is true in season eight.
Every single thing that's happened on this show has been built around that dynamic.
Now, yes, when the TV show did overtake the books, they no longer had that crutch
of supporting material, but they were only ever using that as a guide.
And they've still got Martin as you just describe it as a crutch.
And then you described it as a guide.
Those are two very different things.
I actually agree with the initial statement that it's a crutch.
I am. Yes, I'm convinced it's a closet Canadian.
It makes sense if you interpret it that way.
Closet Canadian dressed as a merchant fisherman, a merchant, a guide now.
So there's not as much to draw from, but it was still always just their vision of it
anyway. And everyone's saying, oh, it was so much better when they had all the books
to draw from. Seasons five and six was when they first stopped using them.
And what did that give us?
That gave us Hardhome, Sept of Balor, Mother's Mercy, Dance of Dragons, Hardhome,
Hold the Door, some of the show's most critically acclaimed episodes.
All came from no books.
So my God, stop pretending that you're anything other than Canadian.
Also, just the idea is like they made good things before.
So stop saying they shouldn't have written the final season.
You're like, oh, that's how even a broken clock is right twice a day.
You can do a thing that's good and then still suck.
Just we're drawing drawing from the books in season five anyway.
There's a lot of stuff that was in the books. Yeah.
Not only is that whole, oh, it's not as good.
Now they're writing it themselves.
Statement objectively debatable.
It's also made this argument nobody on the face of the entire
Internet has ever made this argument.
So second point is there was no point doing the Brianne and Jamie stuff.
I'd say there's no point in doing the stuff after episode one and before
episodes after episode one of the show and before episode five of the last
season with Jamie, like that was all just a kind of a waste of time.
But it just skipped over it.
Yeah.
I guess that includes the Brianne stuff.
What do you guys think?
I just wish I could see the show.
There was for season eight.
Uh, there was no, so is he going to argue that there was a point for that?
Cause no, I, especially where Jamie ends up, it was kind of pointless.
Um, there's a lot of things they could have changed and they ended up
hurting his character, like we talked about a lot.
He, his, his, uh, redemption was, uh, it crashed and burned.
It was dumb.
It made his character pointless.
He reverted back to original Jamie at the end.
And what was the point of that?
So, so why, if you're trying to sell Jamie's character to somebody like you
should watch this series and knowing where it ends, you couldn't sell it to him.
He just, you know, imagine someone being like, I love, as I've been watching
this show that, uh, this Jamie character, like you sort of like complete
asshole, but he's slowly like learning that, you know, there's more to life
than outside of him and his, and his, his love and that he's regaining a lot
of the honor that he apparently does sort of put himself forward to.
And it's like, I really love where this is going.
I can't wait to see where they take him.
You'd be like, hmm.
Yeah, they, they wasted this, this whole thing and it looked good at
first when he first saw brand, you know, at the end of the first episode.
And I'm like, Oh, I can't wait for that.
That was impactful and stuff.
And they, they just went, Hey, I'm really sorry.
He's okay.
You were, you were looking out for your family.
Cool, bro.
Catch you later.
Let's go fight the dead.
You know, I mean, it was terrible and there was no budgetary concerns
or any battle scenes with that.
That was a scene, low hanging fruit on the nose, but it still would have
worked and they didn't do it.
They, they, you know, with robot brand, let's see the argument on the counter.
No point doing the Brienne and Jamie stuff, just to have him go back to Cersei.
All right.
I want the Jamie Lannister to complete his redemption story and go and live a
life happy, free of his past.
I wanted that.
You probably wanted that Brienne of Tarth definitely wanted that and looks for
all the world, like the writers, flattering image of Brienne became a parent in
season eight was that Jamie Lannister didn't want that he survived fighting
the dead, he became a bit of a, yeah, just because the writers said so.
Like Jamie didn't want that.
Yeah.
I understand the events.
I watched them as part of my complaint.
Good guy.
Thanks for re-entering.
Yeah.
Bed.
And for the first time saw it as a woman instead of just a night, but in that
sort, it is a woman
It's like saying, I saw it as a human in reference to a black man.
I think that was probably just a slave.
Let me hear that again.
I don't know if that's actually what he said.
I don't think he meant that.
No, of course.
I'm saying, I wanted to, I want to know if he's tismed it even, or do we just
invent that shit fighting the dead?
He became a bit of a good guy.
Took me into bed for the first time saw it as a woman instead of just a night, but
in that singular shot of him lying there, staring at her, you realized this is not
what he wanted.
Yeah.
I saw the episode too, man.
That's what I'm complaining about.
He got his happily ever after and realized it wasn't him.
And that's the problem.
So he's trying to recap the episode back at me.
Just repeat back what I definitely saw and tell me I was too dumb to understand
what I didn't like.
People are complaining that Danny wouldn't have killed all those women and
children, but if you watch the episode, you can see her burning them.
That's Daenerys burning them.
You're like, yeah, I actually saw a couple of screenshots floating around where they
forgot to animate Daenerys on Drogon's back.
I mean, you get budget cuts.
I don't know.
Why?
When I'm trying to drag it, it's like doing weird stuff on me.
Definitely wanted that and looks for all the world like the writers wanted it as
well. But what became apparent in season eight was that Jamie Lammister.
Jamie gets happy ending.
I don't want it.
Brian's not my queen.
He survives fighting the dead.
He became a bit of a good guy, took Brienne to bed and for the first time saw it as a
woman instead of just a knife.
But in that scene, you know, he's lying there staring at it.
You realize this is not what he wanted.
He got his happily ever after and realized it wasn't him.
And that's the whole point of his story.
We go on this long, reflective and redemptive journey with him.
We see him.
Why the fuck did he do any of the other things that he did?
If it's not him, just go away.
Brienne is a man.
I was able to just to point it out of the way he was his face up.
Oh, man, Jamie finally get that only to realize it was just Cersei that he wanted
all along. He loved her more than anything else, even tells her in their last
moments together, nothing else matters.
Yeah, I heard the episode two.
Oh, geez, especially that especially 15 feet over where there was no bricks
falling. That doesn't matter either.
We don't have to walk over there and survive.
If you watch it as well, the the big the big area they wanted to go has a little
gap at the top, but they just go now.
Yeah, it's not going to work.
He runs over to a different pile and starts like possibly moving bricks.
And I was like, why would you move the ones of Jamie?
You know, it's funny.
You don't know that hill under the and it would have not hurt them.
Yeah, if they just ran over to Witteri and eventually walked out this, how is that
even whatever? I got to wait for that.
That's going to have its time criticism when I get to episode six.
We'll see how much he deserves a happy ending, but he can't.
And that's the whole point. It takes this this long art, which finally culminates
in Brienne, something we want to see him get for him to realize it's not it's not
what he wants. Brienne is the whole payoff.
Your argument is the episode happened.
That's great.
I love how people like say that we only recap things.
I know. And this is literally what he's doing.
He's trying to sell it to himself.
This is this is a whole video of him trying to sell the argument to himself.
It's like a mirror next to the camera.
Like he's going to cry. Look at that.
Look, buddy, classic Canadian.
Let's let's have a chat here.
I tried to justify episode three to myself for about 20 minutes.
And then I started thinking about it and I realized really justifying.
It's just shit. Mm hmm.
It's OK. You can admit it.
Beautifully done.
Number six. It used to be all about the conversations.
What is this argument?
It used to be about all the conversations and talk.
Well, I wanted in season eight conversations and dark room.
This is his third point.
And he is yet to make any sense of even remotely cogent.
I wish to see the man who said who who did it.
Come on, put your hand up.
He's like, I'm sorry.
I just really like dark rooms.
It doesn't matter what they're talking about.
It's the three was his favorite one.
The entire tipping point of this story comes
when John explains the truth of his heritage.
I'm sorry.
So my issue here is that, yeah, whatever your count is to this argument,
you have a probably agree with because I think this argument is retarded.
What who said they want more conversations in dark rooms?
I don't. Why are we even giving this time?
He's yeah, he's not even making it up good.
You know, in good omens, you watch good omens when when the witch master
got so bad at making up fake names, he just started go.
Yeah, lieutenant table.
Yeah, he's at that point with the comments right now.
Like show a comment.
You could even make your own make a fake account, right?
The fake story.
I mean, like do something.
What in the world is this?
To Danny and then again, when she begs him not to tell anybody
and then again, when he rejects her love and she realizes, yeah,
there are conversations in rooms that are not lit very excessively.
I agree.
All she has is fear.
Like when we look back on this, when we look back on this defining moment
in the entire song of ice and fire, it all happened in conversations
in dark rooms in season eight.
There's also a virus.
And what is happening?
It's OK.
What does any of this mean?
Like, I'm trying to extrapolate any kind of meaning from this man.
And I don't understand any of it.
According to discuss, they said the names and the names were the right names.
And then the show started.
And when it started, the actors acted and they said words.
And then the show ended.
Boom. My argument is like, what's going on here?
Please let this be the last of the tism points.
Like, can you make a real one?
John and Danny's pros and cons and whether or not one of them might be a better leader.
No, that's not a dark room, mate, because there's a lot of light in there.
Can't have that one.
Oh, well, the other and then realizing they're going to have to go
separate ways is a quintessential distillation of everything
that makes this show great.
The turning of the wheel and screaming the past and essential.
The one and two characters getting their defining motivations
coming out of that conversation.
All right. In a dark room in season eight.
Yep. From their virus signs his own death warrant and Tyrion doubles down on.
Yeah, dude.
So when he was coming up with how to how to how to destroy
the Libcux on this particular conversation, he was like,
hey, what are my strongest arguments?
Well, there's a lot of conversations in dark rooms
so I could make up that someone said there's no conversations in dark rooms.
Does the content of these conversations have relevance to this discussion or no?
What does this have to do with?
He's not even showing us like what particular conversations.
I mean, he's got his copyright Warner Brothers stuff and their big channel.
They can they can show clips.
He's not he's not even backing it up with anything. This is.
Goblin Slayer has conversations in dark places.
That's true.
Going about it all wrong with my YouTube videos.
I know. Just going to repeat shit.
Funny before realizing he might have made a horrible, horrible mistake.
The defining characteristic.
This could actually be a good album, guys.
I've made a note, but yeah, this could be good help.
You could just like literally copy this entire video.
And we can't I've got to grab a year's worth of coverage into that video.
It's going to be a nightmare.
It's going to be like three hours long.
X code of episodes all in a.
It's part of the meme that it's not supposed to go over 10 minutes.
That's the big problem with it.
This is why none of the sentences make any sense.
And there's like three minutes in your life and yourself
and make sure you're talking at like three hundred words a second.
Art room all in season eight.
Number five, there's too much fans.
Too much fanservice.
I would argue the opposite.
There's not enough fanservice.
There's practically none aside from Clegane Ball.
Yeah, that's like the worst thing to have nailed.
Like if you're going to nail something, why Clegane Ball?
Oh, here we go.
Service. This is this is my absolute favorite one.
Fans deriding decisions being made in a show
as being too concerned with pleasing the fans in a show that is categoric.
Fuck said this.
I didn't know that this was something people felt that it was too much fanservice.
I know that there was a bit of focus on memes, but there was quite a bit
of fanservice in season seven, but not at eight.
How is it fanservice to destroy the fans?
Favorite characters.
It's a weird argument, but you're sure.
Not pleasing its fans.
Clegane Ball, Jamie and Brienne.
Every conversation in episode two.
All the plot would it be fanservice for Jamie Brienne to hook up
if he was going to do what he does.
How is plot armor fanservice?
No one wants plot armor.
Well, you said plot armor was fanservice.
Yeah, he just said plot.
I mean, you can rewind it.
The show that is kind of not pleasing its fans.
Clegane Ball, Jamie and Brienne.
Every conversation in episode two.
All the plot armor is plot armor fanservice.
I'm like, you know, is that is plot armor fanservice?
I think I guess it's fanservice to like resurrect a popular character that died, but.
Oh, I mean, plot armor is this is a show where people expect people to die.
And it was used as a as a negative towards the show.
Yeah, most people hated that there was plot armor.
Yeah.
So we love the exhaustion and the tragedy of characters dying.
When you snatch it away, it's almost like, oh, hmm.
And besides, this is the last season.
We're not going to see these characters again anyway.
We want grand deaths.
We want deaths that are like representative of their journeys and stuff.
But are you banging was 100 percent complete fanservice?
Didn't probably agree with that.
Was it?
I mean, well, then again, I don't know many fans that wanted that.
Yeah, I mean, I guess if you I don't know.
I mean, on one hand, I can see like the shippers being like, yeah, yeah,
there's one there's also quite a few.
If you like hook any characters up, you could argue that though, right?
Like there's always going to be someone out there.
Yeah, I honestly, like I didn't get Danny
and John as fanservice, too, but that's more of a season seven thing, I guess.
Guess it depends on how you see it.
In episode three, all putting Internet noses out of Internet joints
because they were apparently trying to make people on the Internet happy.
I mean, honestly, honestly, does the does the Internet seem all that happy to you?
Even Cle gamebo, the one open goal they had is being derided
for being a bit much because it took place.
Most the consensus I saw for Cle gamebo was happy.
Most people seemed happy about it for you guys, because I just checking forums
and stuff, people seem to do like, at least we got Cle gamebo.
That's something I was seeing a lot.
I couldn't care less.
You know, I I don't I didn't give a shit about Cle gamebo ever.
I just knew there was memes for it.
And I kind of I liked the memes.
Well, they were funny, but I didn't think they would actually like.
I don't care that the Hound is going to kill a zombie.
Big whoop. And the idea is like there's a huge history behind it for them.
It's like it was one scene in season one where it's explained what their history is.
And then since then, the Hound doesn't seem to really give a shit until season
seven, where he meets up with him.
But correct me if I'm wrong, but the references are paper thin in the show
and it comes across the D&D were like, oh, people really care about this
Cle gamebo thing. Should we just do it?
They cared about anything of gamebo.
I don't like I said, I don't care.
Like, was the fight cool?
Like there were people.
I agree with you that where I went, that there was people saying that
at least we got that.
But that's me.
He's in a crumbling tower with a dragon flying overhead.
Who are they making happy here?
Also, the problem here as well is that judging the fan base is collective.
And I've probably done this in the past.
We probably all have.
But the idea that you go, the fans say there's too much fan service
and yet the fans say they loved Cle gamebo.
The fans are contradicting themselves.
You're like, who are you talking about specifically?
Like, you're just taking the arguments of loads of random people and smashing them
together. It's like the previous video where he was like, oh, you don't want them
to touch Star Wars? Didn't Star Wars get ruined by Ryan Josters?
Like, I don't know.
What is that? Because that guy said that you know, I mean,
I'm just thinking, I'll just the Hound and Mountain should have had a dance.
Could you imagine that?
I would have watched it fall on the Internet.
Just having an argument with his comment section.
Obviously, I mean, I think the obvious here.
But yeah, he's just at war with his comment section.
Probably that's where the upset looks come from.
But the dragon flying overhead.
Who are they making happy here?
If the showrunners were overly concerned with what people on the Internet wanted,
then we would have had two full episodes exploring the Night King's backstory
before John killed him in one on one combat.
And then he would have married Danny, put about 100 babies in there.
What are you talking about?
What?
OK, the pause screen right now, his face,
the space that he looked like he lost all the functioning brain cells in his head.
That's kind of me right now.
I just I love how self-deluded this guy is.
If people go where they want, they get the names, all these things that no one's asked for.
I'm just like, who the fuck wanted John to marry Danny and have a million kids?
What is this? What?
Someone said this dude looks like a sailor, the kind that takes it and doesn't care.
Then we would have had two full episodes exploring the Night King's backstory
before John killed him in one on one combat.
And then he would have married Danny, put about 100 babies in there.
Theon would have lived, grown his cock back, and Cersei would have jumped off a cliff,
having just seen Jaime and Brienne change their relationship status.
The fuck show are you right?
I'm talking about the hell on Facebook.
And unless people make just the most insane straw man argument,
I think I've ever seen in my life halfway through like nothing's happened yet.
Jesus, none of that happened.
Number four, Arya didn't deserve deserve.
Wow, it's that weird again.
I use other words.
I don't know what you mean by this.
This is if we're entitled to have.
Hill the Night King.
Her entire story is about her traveling the world,
learning the many things you didn't know what the White Walkers were
until literally that episode.
Well, yeah, so because there's some focus on the many faces of death,
that means anyone who can kill stuff belongs to be it has to be killed by her.
Like, OK,
I don't know, John is all about freeing people and getting them places.
That means that he should have been the one to kill Cersei.
It makes complete sense with his arc.
He should have been the one to kill Cersei.
They fucked it.
You could make this argument for literally every character.
Gendry kills the fucking Night King.
Like, don't you get it?
Gendry was the son of the guy that got all of this started when he was killed.
It makes sense that Gendry kills the guy that ends all of it.
Just like Gendry was rowing and training to kill the Night King.
That's obviously what he was doing.
He's a trained assassin.
Did he get it?
He rode for that long to specifically learn the primary the primary antagonist
to the White Walkers, which is water.
He was the one who spent the most time on water.
His whole arc is about water.
Gendry waters.
Every time I hear about I think of Gendry like sailing,
I always think of that meme where he ends up at.
Yeah, he's just staring at him.
It's one of my favorite game of Thrones memes.
Herself and the Night King is literally the manifestation of death.
This is just to recap her journey, right?
She's a terrified little girl who has to watch her father get beheaded.
Then she journeys the harsh reality of Westeros on her own before falling.
She was literally kept from watching it.
Hey, man.
Just let him just he needs to create the show in his head.
She literally didn't see it happen in the Seven Kingdoms, and she goes
abroad and trains with this mysterious group of deadly assassins before outgrowing
them. I hope in this in this recap, he's going to mention.
And then one day before she killed the Night King, she found out he exists.
Okay.
She just said she outgrew the Faceless Men.
She still has the faces.
She still doesn't.
That's an unfinished plot line.
They should be sending assassins after it.
Yeah, she didn't finish her training.
She got stabbed in the gut.
She fought away with a stick and barely won.
And then.
Yeah, she got way beyond them by not ever understanding what it was to be a Faceless
Man on her own before falling in league with one of the deadliest killers in the
Seven Kingdoms, and she goes abroad and trains with this mysterious group of
deadly assassins before outgrowing them herself and returning home this vengeful,
deadly warrior. How is that not it?
What was what the fuck did what you just said?
What does that have to do with the Night King?
What was any of that?
Jesus Christ, people being like, oh, she likes death and death is the Night King.
Makes sense. But one plus one is three.
Yeah, let's take it away from the guy who's
been fighting the White Walk since the first season and instead give it to someone
who didn't know they existed until like that episode.
You could have had a fight in them.
It's fine with me.
Hell, give her a White Walker to kill.
That'd be great.
On the Night King, keep her away from the fucking Night King.
John was on meth and didn't know what he was talking about until the battle started.
Mikey is.
Yeah, a little bit.
What in any of that, if you don't give
her one of the biggest kills in the closing episode, what was the point of any
of that, if you don't give it one of the biggest kills?
It's like, are you really running with that logic?
So does everyone deserve a big take Jamie's face and kill Cersei?
That would have been so much better.
Would have been better expected and better.
I think that's the theory, right?
A house they gave the Night King to Aya
because I didn't have shit all to do in this season.
Otherwise, that's what they said.
I said it was unexpected.
That's why they did it.
They didn't say anything about her earning it.
And you realize the only reason she even
went north is because Ed Sheeran kind of convinced her to by accident.
Ed Sheeran and Hot Pie.
No, not him. Yeah.
Ed Sheeran and Hot Pie. Yeah.
I would have preferred Hot Pie getting the kill.
A very, very tedious Bravo stuff for if not that.
Like it's a battle.
Yeah, when she went through all the Bravo stuff, I was like, oh, finally,
we've gone through this so she can kill the Night King.
I think everyone was thinking that, right?
That's right.
Yeah, where your heroes have thrown all the conventional weaponry and all
the conventional tactics, I mean, at least he's finally made a point
that people have made like, this is good.
Well done.
It only took him four points.
The Army of the Dead and nothing has worked.
So you've got this slightly creepy girl.
You can do things nobody else can.
She does a thing that nobody else can.
And apparently that you mean phasing into existence.
Because you're right.
A lot of people can't do that.
Oh, geez. From a platform that's not there.
Yep. And I'm not I'm not I'm not saying it couldn't have been done better.
I'm not saying any of this is perfect.
Just that it was actually pretty good.
You watch my video on it.
I had to wear Berwick's face.
It was all that exciting and it made a little bit more sense.
But still, it was fine. It was good.
I like that you can't say she didn't deserve it because she did a bit.
It's a great argument.
You can't say it because it's not true.
Leave me alone.
OK.
Danny snaps when she hears the bells.
Oh, boy.
Oh, boy.
Why does he like why wouldn't you put the substance of the argument up?
Because this is just.
Who cares whether or not this is true?
The point is whether whatever.
Let's just see how he he explains it.
Number three, Danny snaps when she hears the bells.
Yeah, this one is one really did my head
and thousands, literally thousands of people on Monday and Tuesday either
commented or tweeted to tell us that that exact moment in that episode with
the battle one and the Lannisters throwing down their swords,
Danny is sat atop Drogon hearing the bells.
And in that exact moment, right then she snaps.
No, no, it's not.
That's not what that was.
Yes, we literally see it happen.
This is what it was.
We watch it happen.
Dan and Dave say as much.
Yeah, they've already confirmed it as well.
Yeah, they said that she did not intend she didn't go there intending to kill
everyone.
Sorry, mate.
Not to mention, why do you think she
nuked everything except all of the innocent people and then sat atop the thing?
It's because she was like, hmm, did I kill all the innocent people?
And then she had the bells and she went, oh, fuck it, let's go.
I don't know what episode he watched.
Wrong. Now, the exact moment the switch
sort of flips is open to interpretation, but the key moment is earlier on.
The key moment is when John would give
it the deed like, yep, yep, you're right.
OK, can I read this real quick?
Yeah, go for it.
This is from D.B. Weiss.
And then she says and then she sees the Red Keep, which is to her the home that her
family built when they first came over to this country 300 years ago.
D.B. Weiss says it's in that moment
on the walls of King's Landing, where she's looking at the symbol of everything
that was taken from her when she makes the decision to make it personal.
Are you saying she snapped?
I think she snapped in that moment.
Well, this guy's laughing at the co-creators perspective.
What do they know?
This is terrible.
Stripes, 300 IQ, this this.
I just like the way he's so dismissive when it's literally the person who wrote it.
He's fighting against right now.
He's like, are you idiot?
You don't just know your own stuff.
With John in that room, like just just think about it, right?
She's lost Jorah. She's lost Missandei.
She's lost Visairi.
Excuse you, it's Missandei.
My Sunday.
I love the the argument that people keep peddling with this.
People died that she liked.
Therefore, she can kill children.
Jesus. It's like, yeah, that never happened before.
This is the thing, if she was going to snap because of losses,
then where were the snaps that she should have had a million times already?
Oh, my God, it's so dumb.
Like the idea that you'll set up is that she's lost.
There's people who are important to her and she's going to snap.
I'd be like, hmm.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
So she's going to kill Cersei in like a horrible way, right?
And then they're like, no, she doesn't really care about Cersei.
I'm just like, what?
They're like, well, she wants to kill children.
He's like, I don't see how that followed.
I think we missed a few steps and like, no.
You love the fact that she doesn't even confirm Cersei's dead.
She doesn't even seem to care.
It was the women that talk about it, but they also don't talk about the Night King.
You know, they fought the dead and it doesn't even like come up
and pass in conversation like, God, remember when we fought the dead
and now we're fighting each other?
And that's kind of crazy.
Almost like it's really rushed.
Ashton, this is poor bad writing.
Oh, I know what we'll do.
We'll just not say anything for half the episode.
That'll take care of it.
Agol.
She has lost Tyrion because she doesn't trust him anymore.
She's lost Varys because he betrayed her.
And then you see him struggle there.
He's like, she lost Varys because she killed him.
Whoops.
He, he went to go join us.
She lost Varys.
That's a good interpretation of what happened.
I always love the line for the episode where she's like,
Sansa killed him as much as I did.
It's like, woman, what are you talking about?
I love the idea that Sansa gets told she's responsible for Varys' death.
She's like, how?
And you go, well, you told Tyrion the secret.
And she's like, yeah, he told, he told Varys.
It's like, what does that have to do with me?
Can you imagine if she showed up at Winterfell and said that to her?
And it's just like, what?
Imagine if she was like, which one's Varys?
He doesn't even know who he is.
That could believe that, honestly.
That actually, this is what I mean about how season eight is just a fucking disaster.
Think to yourselves, when was the last time Varys and Sansa crossed paths?
And it's like, oh, well.
It was, I remember season one where like Varys is along with Pycelle
and seriously trying to convince Sansa to like write the letter to the north
to convince everyone, everyone, everyone, everything's fine.
And so you'd be like, oh, she might harbor some hatred for him for that.
To be like, yeah, you worked with her.
What else is there?
It's like, well, Varys was trying to pull strings to get Sansa married to with Olenna Tyrell,
but mostly stayed away from it.
So it's like, oh, so she might actually harbor some resentment for him.
There could be a clash there.
She could have a comment.
It's like, no, she pretends like she doesn't even fucking know exists other than
Dany, apparently, saying that she tried to orchestrate Varys betrayed.
It's bizarre.
Like nobody talks about anything.
Everything just is flat.
Such a shame.
You know, one thing that really bothered me thinking about it was
Sansa never got to see Cersei again.
How great would that have been?
Like how strong Sansa is now in a capacity where Cersei wasn't powerful as well?
Like she was like so she was taken prisoner and Cersei could see Sansa.
What she became.
It's just a kind of cool because Sansa had a similar sort of journey as her.
And I just think there's a lot of potential there.
Hell, Sansa might even take pity on her.
You know, there's just potential potential, potential, potential.
It's like, ah, flush it down.
So I guess they did, they did, but it's still a three headed dragon.
Can you imagine she like cuts off a head for each dragon that dies?
That's off whose head?
What, you know, the three dragon pendant that she cuts off the head every time one of them is killed.
She puts the little spikes through the body of it as well.
She puts a spike through one of their necks.
She's like, can you draw a bit of blood?
Yeah, thank you.
Tyrion, because he doesn't trust him anymore.
She's lost Varys because he betrayed her and then she burned him.
I love that stumble.
The last person she has left, her last connection to this world is Jon and...
What do you mean?
What about Greywim?
What about her obvious?
What about her Dothraki, her loyal, loving Dothra...
Bloodriders.
She knows a few of them and there's probably a couple of handmaidens we haven't seen.
What about Greywim?
You just need to fly and go see him.
Love a Greywim just doesn't matter.
Even though this very scene starts with her and Greywim discussing Missandei's death.
What do you think Dario has been doing in Slaver's Bay this whole time?
Chilling.
Enjoying.
You think he just allowed the Slavers to come back?
If you remember, he was pro-Slavery, so I'm pretty sure he'd be back in full force.
She goes back, finds it back to where it was when she first came.
She's like, Dario, what the fuck?
Loyal, loving, infinite Dothraki.
Yep, they respawn.
He rejects her.
Having lost every human tie she had to this world, she decides in that moment it'll have
to be fear then.
By which she means she is going to burn King's Landing to the ground.
If the people will not love her, they will have...
Yeah, sorry dude.
The creators disagree with you on that one.
Nice try.
To fear her instead.
That's why she's so dis...
I love that the inside of the episodes make the episodes worse
because they describe how the characters feel at certain points.
You're like, why?
And then that contradicts this.
That guy stopped talking.
Please stop talking.
Some of the worst moments of Season 8 were from that, the kind of forgot.
That's a meme forever.
Yeah, that'll be a meme forever with bad writing.
I love it.
I'm so thankful that they said...
That was when I saw it.
It didn't hit me at first.
That's a weird thing to say.
That was like, wait.
You can't just say that.
You can't just say...
Oh, and then everybody was posting videos about it.
Just like they kind of forgot.
...commissive about the idea of them surrendering in the bells.
And when Tyrion's telling us, she's like, yeah, whatever.
She's already made up her mind that that's what she is going to do.
And then with the day one and the city throwing down its arms and the bells ringing,
she finally realizes the gravity of what she's about to go through.
That's not her breaking.
That is her stealing herself.
Can she really go through with what she is...
I love that he's trying to improve it for D&D.
He's like, let me fix your episode, please.
Oh, it's not really going to fix it, though.
You need a lot more than this.
Promised herself.
She's about to do with what she believes she needs to do to fulfill her destiny.
Those thousands of...
As you could tell, he was pretty close to almost saying she snapped again,
but he used different ways.
She steeled herself, meaning she was always going to do it.
She's just definitely doing it now.
He's like, uh-huh.
People, their lives stand in the way of her accomplishing the one thing she's
sad to do from the start of the show.
That's not...
Their lives stand in her way?
What was he talking about?
Oh, I want to hear that again.
Yeah, he is reaching on this one.
Feeling herself.
Can she really go through with what she has promised herself she's about to do,
with what she believes she needs to do to fulfill her destiny?
Those thousands of people, their lives stand in the way of her accomplishing the one thing
she's sad to do.
What the hell is he talking about?
They surrendered.
What are they standing in the way of?
What does he mean?
Despite living, they stand in the way?
Don't you realize that the people of King's Landing can jump really,
really high and fly themselves?
They can form a flying wall around the Red Keep and protect Cersei.
She had to kill all of them.
God, I just...
Walk up to a random civilian and go, do you fear her?
He's like, nope.
You don't fear the fact she has this enormous dragon that can burn the city's ground.
Nope.
You don't fear the fact that she destroyed every single thing
that could possibly have stopped the dragon in seconds
and they had full warning and chance to kill her.
He's like, nope.
You don't care that she obliterated the Iron Fleet.
Nope.
So she's going to have to kill all of you to finally get you to fear her.
And he's like, yep, that's the only way.
I wouldn't fear her otherwise.
The other things that are just kind of inconsequential.
I've seen a dragon before.
He's like, okay.
All right.
Because that's the best faith interpretation I can get from what he's saying.
He's saying that she thinks that the only way to secure her kingdom
is to inspire fear and thus she must kill them
because their lives, their living stand in the way of them being afraid of her.
Is that it?
I guess so.
Then the Night King should have won because everybody would have been dead
but doing what he said.
So she wants the same thing as everybody dead.
That logic is hurting my brain a little bit.
Very desperate.
From the start of the show, that's not the character breaking.
It's not a betrayal of her arc.
That isn't coming to fruition.
It's just that is...
Look at Amelia Clark there.
Look at that.
That is not somebody breaking.
That is somebody...
What do you mean?
Have you seen that scene?
It looks like she's falling apart.
Like I have to add it to Amelia Clark.
She did great this season.
And I partially feel like...
This is the first time I've ever actually seen her act
and it's in this horrible season.
I love that he's like, she's not breaking here.
You're like, what do you mean?
Are you looking at the same picture we are?
Look at her.
Look at the thumbnail.
They're realizing what they have to do and being terrified of it.
Number two, these aren't the characters we know and love.
That's an easy argument to just get rid of in a few seconds
and you're gonna cover the ball.
Love.
Okay, but I guess that's kind of a subjective one.
That's your opinion.
But let's just recap a couple of things.
John's story is about how in a world of such wrongdoing,
doing what you know to be right often carries the greatest consequences.
And in season eight, his refusal to love Danny
because she's her aunt is one of the major caps.
She's her aunt.
She's her aunt.
John is a feeble.
Unless he's saying that Daenerys is Daenerys's aunt,
in which case we're talking about some time travel shit
that I can't even begin to express.
I, you know, I would honestly rather watch The Last Jedi
than watch this man's video.
Probably has one defending the last Jedi.
I know, and I'd still rather watch that than watch anything he's made.
Massacre of King's Landing, that kind of fits.
Tyrion's story is large.
Oh my God.
Okay, like, I always love the simplistic.
Are you really going to run through and tell us about when all their stories are about?
Are you kidding me?
Well, he's just going to do the surface level take.
So like, let's say Tyrion shot himself in the head.
He did that at the beginning of episode six.
He was so depressed.
And someone's like, I hate that end of term.
I'm like, don't you understand?
Tyrion, since season one has argued and fought for his life.
He always finds a way to extend his life when other people are trying to kill him.
And he discovers across the entire arc,
that no matter what he does, the world just gets worse.
And that ultimately it's not worth living in.
I think it works.
And then you go, okay, what else we got?
It's like Tyrion falls off a fucking cliff.
He slips on some rocks and I go, don't you understand?
Tyrion throughout his arc, he's always been about a sure footed,
extremely intelligent response to any kind of situation.
And every single time he gets into any trouble,
he always manages to get out through this sort of
steeled mind about exactly what step to take and what to say.
So I think it's fitting that he slips and falls to his death.
It's not even a mental thing.
It's just a physical thing.
You know, when you said he got shot,
I just imagined Tyrion taking out like a pistol.
What if that happened?
Would he still defend that?
If you can bullshit enough, there's just no ending a character has
that can't be fitted with their arc.
Tyrion went through the ruins of, what's the place the Targaryens come from?
I can't remember the name.
Valyria.
Yeah.
He goes through there and they were super advanced.
They had guns everywhere.
He just found one and kept it.
And then at the end, he was like, you know, this is the time.
You just saw that coming the whole way.
It's all there.
You don't understand.
And yeah, I was just going to say that's the that's the method here.
You do the same way as an Aries, right?
So that even D&D did this.
They were like home through the episodes,
find any pieces of dialogue that can support that she would kill children.
You're like, so what about all the ones that go against simply take the big sets?
What happened to the stream?
Oh, dear.
Brain.
I'll just repeat back the stream.
The streams down.
Oh, they went offline.
Oh, no, you just got to refresh it.
Refresh.
Seen a couple of F's there.
This happens quite often.
Yeah, at least once episode mostly, I think.
People are saying it's back.
Hope it's back.
Okay, either way.
I mean, I just refreshed the page and that worked.
Excellent.
About how a lifetime of having really good quips doesn't actually make you
as smart as you think you do.
And lo and behold, it doesn't make you as smart as you think you do.
Okay, I'm putting that on the shirt.
Oh, my God.
You know that Neil deGrasse Tyson meme where it's like something, something,
but I can't remember what it's actually saying.
Let me look it up.
Neil deGrasse Tyson meme.
I'm sure you've seen it.
I'm sure you've at least heard of it if you haven't.
I actually need to listen to it again, just in case.
I don't make sure I got it right.
Her aunt is one of the major catalysts to the entire massacre of King's Landing.
That kind of fits.
Tyrion's story is largely about how a lifetime of drinking,
whoring and having really good quips doesn't actually make you
as smart as you think you do.
Doesn't actually make you as smart as you think.
The Neil deGrasse Tyson meme I was thinking of
was people don't think the universe be like it is, but it do.
This quote from this guy reminded me of that meme.
Doesn't actually make you as smart as you think you do.
You know what?
He's whoring and having really good quips doesn't actually make you
as smart as you think you do.
And lo and behold, after two full seasons of poorly advising his queen,
he now realizes he might have backed the wrong horse and does not know where to.
Season 8 is way greater than you think it is.
I love it.
This is the weak source of arguments.
You just describe the events and then say that fits.
Jaime opens the show with his infamous,
the things I do for love line before doing something terrible.
And after years and years of trying to break free of that,
he then ends up doing a terrible thing for love.
Fits.
Arya is a character who repeatedly rejected-
Good thing for love.
I don't know how terrible.
Fits if you ignore everything else.
Oh my god.
It makes sense if you don't think about it.
You don't think about it.
Yeah.
That needs to be out of shit too.
It makes sense if you don't think about-
God, this guy is a galaxy brain.
I'm telling you.
Fucking closet Canadian.
Of all the-
They're lying.
You can make mistakes all the time, right?
But when you talk about someone being more or less intelligent
than they realize they are, that's the sentence you need to not screw up.
It fits the hose you're backing up to.
The chat is trying to outdo the universe.
Comfortable life as a high-born lady just living in some castle.
And then lo and behold in season eight,
when she's offered a nice comfortable life as a high-born lady living in some castle, she rejects it.
What the fuck?
That's your take on Arya's story?
She didn't want to be a lady and then she was offered it and she didn't want it.
That fits.
Don't want it.
So Sansa is for years the biggest victim of how the political game in Westeros is played,
but always crucially learns a lesson from her mistake.
And now, would you believe it, in season eight,
she's now playing the game herself uncompromisingly and on her own terms.
And-
This is just nonsense.
He's just saying stuff.
It's like the fuck's over with Brother.
Cersei really likes drinking wine and looking out of windows.
All right, they might have dropped the ball on her,
but as for the-
Oh, thank God.
He's got like some semblance of a brain cell, I guess.
High arrest of the cast.
If you're suddenly confused by what they're doing,
you really, really haven't been paying attention.
Oh God, damn you.
I've been waiting for that one, you son of a bitch.
What's this guy's name?
What's this little panther's name?
Ah, I wish I could get him on the show.
Maybe I'll give some money to-
I mean, look at the description.
See him on my show to debate Game of Thrones.
Pretty.
I'm just looking at the top comment and see if anyone says like,
oh, I agree.
And then Pissen's name-
Adam Cleary, is that his name?
Ah, ah, here.
You want to debate him about Game of Thrones?
Yeah, I cannot.
Adam Cleary?
Oh, maybe I was thinking of someone else.
Why am I saying Adam Cleary?
I was totally thinking somebody else, yeah.
What a culture.
Anyone-
A couple of people have actually said his name is Adam Cleary.
Oh, apparently, yeah.
Some people saying Adam Cleary.
I thought it was, you know, okay.
Gmined, believing geek, yeah.
It just fits.
Just fits.
Not as smart as you think you do or whatever that is.
Yeah, not as smart as you think you do.
You do.
Some people think Game of Thrones be how it is.
I was going to say-
It just fits Adam Howard.
Really does.
Yeah, I love that argument.
You just haven't been paying attention.
No, I just don't rationalize what I see when I'm so emotionally attached to something.
I can't like bring myself to admit that it's not good because I have my self-worth wrapped in it,
or their channel, or God knows why.
His eyes are red.
I even took a screenshot.
Of like how red his eyes are.
He's been just really high.
He's been crying.
He's either really high or he's crying, or both.
High crying.
That's what he's doing.
Yeah, they ruined Daddy in before he says she killed people before.
She's always seemed to be kind of on hinge.
It totally makes sense that she'd murdered thousands of children and women
who were running away from her in fear.
It totally makes sense.
Number one, they've ruined Danny.
Okay, so this is the real one for me, right?
If you've watched Daenerys' story and you disagree with what they're doing,
that is absolutely fine.
That's your prerogative.
If you don't like what they're doing, that's absolutely fine.
That's part of watching a TV show.
But if you think that the Bells was somehow majorly out of character for it,
and not instead where her entire arc has been leading, then that is absolutely wild.
The groundwork for this has been getting laid better than you and me combined.
I don't make assumptions there, son.
Sometimes it may be what it be, but it do.
This is so good that all of us put together couldn't even see how good it was.
Okay.
She was always going to have to be the show's real big bad.
And just, I'm sorry if you started a Twitter account,
which is just to post loads of photos of her smiling with,
my queen, but that is not the right as false.
That's yours.
What is this argument?
Whoa, I just straight up, fam blaming.
That's great.
Oh, it's your fault.
You thought she was a good piss.
Let's, let's recap here.
And by recap, I mean, I'm just going to say exactly what I already said on ups and downs.
She is a character who has longed for home her entire life,
only to get there and discover that she doesn't actually.
I'm curious.
The one question I have for this man is,
is there anything any of these characters could have done
that you would have said is out of character?
And then I want him to say it and then I would justify it no matter what.
Like I said, I went as crazy as Tyrion slipping on a rock and falling off a cliff.
Like, give me anything and I will justify it with some random reference.
Like Tyrion flies away and I'll be like, well, Tyrion never believed in magic.
You see, he was always not like, he always thought he was dumb.
All those stories.
And then when he finally decides to embrace the magical side of his personality,
he's able to be free of the bonds of earth.
The magical side of his personality.
And he'd be like, it's perfectly in character. It fits.
He'd be like, shut up.
You can trash mine anything, okay?
He just turns into the really big midget that he was.
I mean, this is such a large midget.
Belongs.
She never let anyone get through.
Suspiciously long midget.
She still manages to see her best friends and her children killed in front of.
Grogon's still alive, buddy.
She's not lost everyone yet.
He's forgetting about the other people.
He's like, they're all dead.
You're like, I don't know. There's a couple.
Her eyes.
She believes so firmly in her destiny to rule Westeros,
only to then find that the man she loves actually has a better claim.
Her character is and always-
What does that have to do with her killing children and women?
Please just take me there.
Take me there.
Jon has a better claim, but he doesn't want it.
Better kill children.
This is what I mean. I'm like, duh.
Oh, it's like if Tyrion just massacred everyone at King's Landing with a fucking Uzi,
and then I'm like, Tyrion went to the wall.
He pissed off the edge of the wall.
You're like, okay.
I'm like, oh, you still don't get it?
Tyrion then went back to King's Landing.
He was the hand of the king.
You're like, I still don't-
Where are you going with this?
Please connect the dots.
Always has been this figure of tragedy.
She is consumed by loss, by betrayal, by isolation.
She is corrupted by power and destiny.
She is haunted by this idea of the Mad Queen,
which is handed down to her from her Mad Queen father.
It really do be like that Sertona House look.
I feel like we're nearly there.
Where does she kill the people?
It's intensely powerful storytelling,
and it's been getting done since the very start.
When my-
Intensely powerful storytelling, if you say so.
My dragons are grown.
We will take back what was stolen from me
and destroy those who have wronged me.
We will lay waste to armies.
We will burn cities.
Would you like to rationalize
how these children have wronged her?
Did they stand in her way
when she was trying to get the throne?
Like she's in the room and they're all like in a big bunch.
Like, no, you can't sit on it.
She has to personally kill them with like a knife.
Is this how he visualizes it?
I don't know.
To the ground.
And honestly, truly, I am so, so sorry
if your favorite television character
has just let you down and broken your heart.
But that's what good storytelling is supposed to do to you.
I can't even.
I can't.
If you think it's bad, that's what good storytelling is.
Like, okay.
Thanks, Culture.
Thanks, Closet Canadian.
I learned something new today.
When you thought it was good, it was good.
When you thought it was bad, it was good secretly.
James Moore asked, can we kill him?
I think there's laws against that.
I think justice wants maybe.
Some judge is like, I mean, there are exceptions.
It's supposed to win.
Even Legal Eagle's life.
I've seen several comments in the chat saying that getting angry.
This man is upsetting people.
In the gut and make you just sit there and go, no!
How could you?
Like your girl spent eight seasons
telling you exactly what her move was.
Oh yeah, I remember her doing that.
She was like, never kill innocents.
Never spill innocence blood.
Never lay the bones of a child at my feet ever again.
To lock away people who could deal more damage to people.
She'll punish those who commit injustice.
All of these were set ups for how she would obliterate innocent families.
Fleeing from here in terror.
I get it now.
Just like those bells in King's Landing, you didn't want to hear it.
So there you have it.
Those are eight things everybody's saying about Game of Thrones right now.
Wait, what?
Just like the bells in King's Landing, you didn't want to hear it.
What the hell does that mean?
Why would we not want to hear the bells when that meant they'd surrendered?
Wouldn't that be precisely what wasn't the whole point of the scene
that we were all on the edge of our seats waiting for the bells to ring?
Every character was staring at the tower like.
It's a great pause face, by the way.
You got right there.
I got a few.
Perfect.
And he looks absolutely convinced by his own argument.
You know, so.
Yeah, I'm impressed.
To like, share, and subscribe.
In the meantime, though,
Don't forget to like, share, and subscribe, guys.
Oh my gosh.
I'm just checking out some of the top comments right now
and seeing.
So agree with you.
You're still in the ball.
Some corrections.
A lot of us disagree with it, apparently.
Great points made me feel better about the whole thing.
Great points.
I am myself not mad with the direction the show is going.
It's it's over.
You really explained Danny's arc well.
What?
What do you mean?
Dude, the videos we covered in this,
the most insufferable we've seen since Bob Chipman.
You sure?
We covered sufferable every episode.
I know, but this is like really bad.
Oh, it was a journey.
I'm so glad that.
I don't know that that's a it's a it's a everyone likes that video.
People using it as defenses in season eight.
Most of it is even accurate.
A lot of it is just straw man like.
Terrible, terrible, terrible.
You know, the funny things that people are saying,
they actually shadow ban people in the comments section.
I was actually about to bring up.
It's an odd comment section.
If you guys load it up yourselves, like.
Most of a lot of the top comments comments with like one or two likes.
Right now, which is odd made three weeks ago.
So that's unusual.
Did you did you click top comments just to make sure?
Because I know that YouTube kind of screws that up sometimes and it goes to newest first.
Well, I guess I don't know.
I just did that.
Tough to hear some of these.
But as I've said, eight likes.
Why is that a top comment?
Two likes to talk to 25.
Nine four hundred twenty six.
This is weird.
Yeah.
Well, don't comment on this video, guys.
No point might just get it to lead.
I was going to say there's not a lot of vehement disagreement in the chat.
Oh, someone just put Adam in this video.
Just got a fact that's in there.
I put in D.B. Weiss's quote.
Just said that's a snapshot.
Yeah, well, you know, great video.
What culture?
I hope that you move on successfully with this kind of reasoning.
It's very convincing.
Sorry, it sucks.
But that's what good storytelling do.
I'm writing it down.
One needs to be written down for sure.
I mean, I do this this thing.
I write down the best of the quotes from everything we cover.
And then my April Fool's video is going to have all of them in it.
But I'm going to deliver them in a way that's almost completely jumbled.
And it's essentially a it's like a big bingo thing.
You just you just you just tick off all the things that you would have expected over the
over the year of watching.
It's like Gedelbe is like Efap rewind.
There you go.
But yeah, since we're at what is it now?
Four hours.
I believe it is time to start reading super chats.
It's been a while.
I probably get through.
Got a couple here and there.
Don't for me to take a piss.
I'll be right back.
There you go.
And Gary, you don't have to stay for any longer than you wish to.
Completely up to you.
Oh, hang.
Very well.
Just let me know before you want to go because then I can make sure everybody knows about your
channel.
It is in the top of the description.
If anyone has found his his contribution to be particularly interesting,
I would recommend giving the channel a little checkaroo.
So lots of fun.
But yeah, I'll give you I'll give you a good old plug by the time we reach the end of it.
Thanks.
Thanks for having me on.
This has been a lot of fun.
I hope it's been funny.
I was going to say like the covering covering the videos could be such a mixed bag of like
pain and entertainment.
I mean, at least him fumbling quotes is probably the funnest thing in the whole video.
It was no I I enjoyed the second one quite a bit.
I thought especially since I used to watch those guys.
Yeah, it's you never know that sort of thing, right?
Like it's sometimes sad because like, oh, I used to be a huge fan.
What happened?
Game of Thrones happened.
And seriously, the rational is I mean, listen, he's just a fan.
And he's trying to rationalize it in his head through the video.
He's obviously having an argument.
I think he mentioned Facebook.
He has some Facebook group where people are spurging out.
And this show is so much different than everything else because the normies were
pissed as we talked about a lot.
Yeah.
Got a lot to deal with these stressing out poor guys.
So he's smoking lots of weed and crying into his bong.
And he's up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What?
Canada.
Yeah.
They said you're a channel that really likes Doctor Who season 11, right?
I feel the same way as perfect television.
Oh, God.
Yes, that was it.
It was a perfect television right there with the Game of Thrones season eight.
Actually, the great storytelling, well paced, really thought out.
You know, I really like the white guys being the bad guys all season.
I thought that was a really good idea.
Really good spin on thing.
Toxic, you know, toxic fathers, toxic masculinity.
It's just, yeah, it's all about.
Oh, so you don't like the truth.
Is that what you're saying?
That's it.
All right, then.
So I'm just going to try and get through these as quickly as I can.
Where is Rags?
Well, we kind of answered that at the beginning.
But yes, he is on some form of a holiday.
I believe he's he's doing great and he'll be back for the next episode where
we're going to be going through a lot of memes.
My collection of memes is already bursting.
So it's going to be a lot of stuff.
Yay.
The epap is meets the great nerd Rotic.
Well, on epap anyway, he'll all be watching the replay.
Praise the dawn.
He was the first to milk a rhino.
Oh, yes.
Wonderful.
That's from the rookie critic.
I met him on the critic.
Did I meet him on your channel?
Was it Jay?
There's somebody stream, I believe.
Hooked him for a little bit.
Probably Jeremy's.
Deeks and gamers.
But yes, thank you very much.
Hail epap.
Hello, Massives.
Bury me in the ocean with my ancestors.
Thug life.
Yeah, that's another great quote from Black Panther.
Wolfpack quoting Kilbog.
Good the wolf isn't here.
He'd probably be enraged by it.
So more things happened.
I can get you the thing now.
Just giving you a heads up for later.
I will PM you, James, once we're through the show.
Literally a super chat that just says penis.
I don't know how to react to this.
How is no one made an epap theme song yet?
There is two videos, I think, that have been made
that we covered in the past that have a potential theme thing.
Some amazing videos have been made.
And yeah, I don't know.
An actual theme song, though.
Who knows what would be involved in that.
Have to reference every meme.
The second that you make it,
it'll be outdated by memes in the next episode.
First epap that isn't at two times speed.
Love, Wolf.
We couldn't speed up that first guy.
It would have been too hard to understand what he's saying.
But we do that sometimes with people we're covering
because it can be quite painful.
Not everyone's suited to speaking slowly.
Some people speak way too slowly or they're frustrated.
I can't remember if we sped up Monday and Matt.
I think we did.
You missed my Streamlabs thing.
Last stream from Eapthap37, you massive.
Are you sure?
Eapthap?
Eapthap.
Let me check.
I thought I read out the Streamlabs ones as well.
He's at my door.
I will be right back.
Reading them for four hours.
I know, right?
You'd think I wouldn't have missed any.
I will get through.
I'm going to read all the Streamlabs ones now then.
Objectively, Eapthap is the best podcast.
Well, I didn't say that.
It was somebody else.
You know, I can't say that's true.
I don't know.
What?
Thank you for another eight hour Eapthap.
Unfortunately, missed this one live,
but I just started watching.
I mean, this was...
Oh wait, that's nine days ago.
Okay.
Let's make sure it's...
Something I hear is spooky.
I mean, this one says,
Wow.
Whoa.
I'd suck a fart out of Don's ass.
I don't know if that was the one you wanted me to read.
I mean, it's obvious Donnie just needs some good hugs.
That might have been it.
Two things.
Ironically, Berserk proves what Rag said about sex
being more entertaining when you care about the characters.
And Wolf, why is your first book out of print?
I want to read it.
I think I said that to you, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
If I've missed it other than those ones,
then it's not showing up for me, unfortunately.
Hopefully that was it though.
Here's a large Little Caesars for you, Wolf.
Little Caesars.
Pretty have one.
Wait, they don't come in different sizes,
unless you get like the lunch combo,
but that was garbage.
I know too much about pizza.
Oh, is Little Caesars pizza?
Yeah.
It's like affordable pizza.
It's shit pizza, but they have rocking breadsticks, man.
It's not my fault.
It happens to be my lunchtime at work.
Oh, that was from James.
That might have been about modding and stuff.
Yeah, it was.
He shot me a DM, but then Jenna popped in, took care of the thing.
Yes.
And I've got a couple of, I've modded a few here and there,
so hopefully that'll be enough.
What is the podcast collective top five John Carpenter films,
if you guys have seen any of his other films?
The thing is the best, obviously.
Well, yeah, that would be my number one.
What else is John Carpenter made?
I would actually have to check.
Well, big trouble, Little China and the thing are the best to me.
And he's a Christine.
They live in the mouth of a mess.
Escape from New York, of course, and Halloween.
Um, yeah, I mean, it's kind of hard to make a top five.
I would just, I'd want to be saved, just be like, yeah, the thing.
I love the thing.
It's like one of the best horror movies there is.
I don't know how that's the case, by the way.
The 1982 is still like the reigning champion for making a horrifying creature
that can like convert itself into different things.
You'd think it would have been beaten out by now, but like it did.
Have you both seen the remake?
Have you both seen the remake of the thing?
I wish I didn't.
Yeah, I did not.
I did not.
I would just imagine the thing, but significantly worse in every single respect.
How to do it.
I don't know if you guys are fans of Evil Dead or you like Sam Raimi.
But, um, Ash versus Evil Dead does that stuff pretty good in the TV show.
Don't know if you've seen it.
And then Swamp Thing, which is on DC streaming, actually does some pretty damn
good horror special effects that look very much like the thing.
I've heard that people really like that show and so they've cancelled it.
It's very good.
It's very, very good.
I just find that amusing.
It's like of all the ones you could just cancel Batwoman for fuck's sake.
No one wants to see that.
DC gets something right and they cancel it.
I'm a woman.
Oh, I can't wait for that.
Can you imagine her hanging upside down with that red hair?
It's just like, it immediately gives her away.
Oh yeah.
What's with that?
I saw, I saw you looking at it, Gary, the scene, the scene with, um,
she like gives so many dollars to like a homeless woman.
And then the police officer's like, don't do that.
You'll encourage her.
Is he talking about drugs?
It might've been.
Well, yeah, because he gave her, he was talking about drugs,
but I think he was actually talking about the audience about making videos about that
trailer because a lot of people did.
But now, and then she gives them a 10, I don't know, a Rolex.
I don't know what Rolexes are worth.
And then the, the, the memes the next day are the best or like young woman dies of heroin
overdose.
10 minutes later, you know, someone in the chat, uh, said, I'm a massive.
I can't even get that high for that freaking.
Nobody wants to get that high.
No, not in that way.
Who has the funniest laugh in the EFAP crew and your subjective opinion?
I think it's Wolf.
My adopted son.
I don't love thinks it's molar.
Hmm.
I don't know.
I would say if ringy's laugh is really infectious.
I agree with that.
Have you had anybody on like a weird laugh?
We should make fun of them while they're not here.
I don't know a weird laugh.
We'll have to leave it to chat.
I guess, I guess rags his laugh is a lot more high pitched than I ever would have expected
it to be, but it's not really a weird laugh.
I get high pitched sometimes as well.
If something shocks me into laughter, I'll make some weird noises.
A lot of people vote for rags.
So people, I think rags might have the best law.
Yeah.
Rags and fringy are like the two, I would say the fringy just beats it for me.
How would you make a powerful character sympathetic?
I'm writing a book where a character has that start.
Also, Rosamund Pike as Moraine.
Who's that?
Anyone recognize that name?
Warain.
Warain?
Warain.
What's the full super chat again?
Rosamund Pike to play Moraine in Amazon's Wheel of Time show.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh, okay.
Moraine from Wheel of Time.
What's the name again?
Oh, Rosamund Pike.
Funnily enough, dude, she's the girl in the Doom movie.
Pike.
Rosamund Pike, let me see.
Just get cast in the Doom movie now.
Well, I guess she doesn't really need to be as short as Moraine.
Guess we'll have to...
I don't know.
Maybe.
Oh, there's even a news article about it.
And yeah, as for how to make a powerful character sympathetic,
there's like a bazillion ways you can do it.
Uh, give them some good old fashioned character flaws.
Relatable ones.
Like...
She's that kind of girl, girl.
Bad father.
What do you say something like to do?
Give it a bad father.
No.
Give him, uh, give him an alienation to all things social
because too many people treat them as someone different from them.
There you go.
Seeing that on the daily and then something as powerful as Superman
coming home to his apartment and just sitting in a chair
and being upset with his day would be pretty sympathetic
even though he could like destroy the world with a punch.
I mean, one punch man does it pretty well, I think as well.
Like this...
Any comic stories come to mind, Gary, of powerful characters
that are very sympathetic toward it in a sort of very real human way?
Uh, yeah.
They usually do that with, uh, modern times with like with Tony Stark.
They've done it with his alcoholism.
Uh, even Carol Danvers.
He has Carol Danvers.
Ms. Marvel had an alcohol problem at one time,
although she's a flawless character now.
Uh, yeah.
Um, depression.
Uh, actually every superhero has gone through that,
the sitting in a room by themselves after they just saved the world.
I think that's been in every superhero arc ever.
It's a very sad.
I was going to say like, um, it's also relative because like,
I'm assuming by most powerful, they're talking like top tier stuff
because to an extent, you know, you said, you said Tony is like,
yeah, Tony's like super low on the power level,
especially if it's considering him a base level rather than like,
you know, Carol Danvers, Superman sort of stuff.
If you have a mental disorder.
Yeah, go for it.
This is what I mean.
There's loads of ways to do it.
It's only Hollywood only make you think that it might be hard.
Don't seem to be able to make it just yet.
They'll get there someday.
It's like, I don't consider Iron Man's story to be a sympathetic, powerful character.
I don't really consider a lot of the time he's fighting an uphill battle
in most of his films.
Like whiplash.
He was definitely fighting someone who's less powerful than him,
but in almost all the other scenarios,
he's against someone who he's probably going to lose against in power wise.
He has to outsmart them.
Yeah, Tony, prior to the one in the comics,
prior to the movies was very stoic.
And the alcohol problem was very out there with him
because he wasn't this smart ass quipper.
And that's kind of something that it started later on.
And then Robert Downey, Jr.
perfected snow flame.
Yes, we need snow flame.
Snow flames, cocaine powered.
No, I don't know.
Yes, he's a cocaine powered supervillain and he.
I like him already.
Is in one issue when he dies, but he is cocaine is his God
and he is the instrument of his will of his will.
Cocaine is his God.
All right.
No flame.
It's definitely unique.
Yes, and yeah, so he does a bunch of coke
and then he has all these flame powers.
It's pretty, pretty cool.
No, Superman is the one that Hollywood can't get right
because nobody who lives and works in Hollywood constantly now
has any they're not close to actual humanity.
They're all jaded, so they can't see an actual good person being good.
So they can't even get to the place where they would give him like a normal flaw.
And I think Superman's inability to get close to anybody
because if he, you know, he always has to practice restraint.
If he grabs somebody's arm accidentally too hard, he'll crush it.
And that's definitely something you could play with it,
but they never do because they always want to make him darker than he really is,
which changes the character completely.
So.
Superman's a very complex character,
but you always hear Hollywood say he's too hard to write, you know.
God, he's, like I said, they make it seem like it's hard.
It's not, I mean, not hard to write, at least in a standard
decent story, like they keep creating.
Then again, we're actually that's going to be in the future
talking about Man of Steel and Bama the Superman.
I'm sure you're aware, Gary, but there's a very large amount of people
who are very defensive about those movies being great.
It's strange.
Bama the Superman, like I couldn't stop laughing at so much of it.
And I watched it with Alex the first time and he fell asleep halfway through.
And I was like, Hey, it's funnier than that.
It doesn't deserve to be asleep to.
The one thing I'll always remember is Jesse Eisenberg's Lex Luther
awkwardly popping sweet into a man's mouth.
I was like, What am I watching?
Why?
Yeah.
It was weird.
It was like they were trying to push for him to be a sort of joker-ish character.
It was just like Lex Luthor, really?
Oh, it's the complete opposite.
But, you know, we'll get around to that.
I'm looking forward to rewatching them for it because I'll just be like,
this will finally get a fair take on just how amazing these movies are
with videos that'll explain it top to bottom.
I'm expecting the same arguments we got today where they just say what happens
to the movies.
They're like, See, this batch is super bad at what he does because that's what happened.
I'll just tell you what happened and repeat it back to you with, you know,
with some confidence and then I'll be right about my argument that I'm having trouble with
in my own head.
So I'm going to make a video about it, which hey, they got almost a half a million views.
So who can argue?
Finally made it to a live stream.
Love you guys to death.
Why thank you.
Would you rather have to mercy kill the dawn after watching him get impaled by Captain Marvel
or have a petrified pineapple shoved up your rear sincerely, Mr.
Massive petrified pineapple.
Why a petrified?
Yeah, because it's not hard enough, obviously.
So it needs to be a little harder.
What is it?
Does he think it's going to fucking explode when you shove it up?
No, might implode.
Well, you got to choose both.
You got to choose.
Okay.
What was the other option?
To mercy kill the dawn after he's been impaled by Captain Marvel.
Sorry, Don.
You're going to have to go now.
Wonder if that will be in the lore at this point.
You had to.
You had no choice.
I could add that in the eFap book.
Well, ask him the trap question.
Then Star Wars.
Wrong podcast.
There's no it's the orphan question.
Can I get another?
Another shout out, please.
Appreciate it.
Cine animations.
They made the one where the guy says the last Jedi is a masterpiece.
Three times at a mirror and it's summon defap.
Go and check out some more of his channel.
Cine animations.
S-I-N-I animations.
Go for it.
Might not be around as much this time.
Heading to the hospital because my niece will be born within the next few hours.
Love you guys.
Well, I hope it's a wonderful experience adding another.
Make sure to teach your niece not to be a massive.
Yeah, and don't don't get her into the latest Star Wars films.
Okay, just the OT.
Yeah, just the first thing you gotta do.
Tell her that nothing happened after episode six.
Yeah, and Disney made these weird fan fictions that no one likes.
Rags is taking a holiday to the top.
Don't name her Daenerys.
Name her Thanos.
Name her Sam Picker Gender.
Rags is taking a holiday to the dog park.
This is true.
Calm down.
But thoughts on adoption, Nodrotic?
It's on adoption?
Well, I'm adopted.
Wait, are you?
Oh, I think it's great.
Yeah, that's awesome.
So your parents don't love you then.
He doesn't know the memes.
We have a running meme.
Don't worry if nothing makes sense.
Just assume it's a meme.
Just roll with it.
It's all right.
I'm also old.
So I've got to keep that in.
My parents don't love me.
No, they don't.
The parents who adopted me don't love me either.
So it's the consistency.
It's okay.
The Dawn loves you.
Loves all orphans.
Why no forced ghost or guest suck?
Why no forced ghost or guest suck?
All right, no idea.
Not as smart as you think you do.
Wolf, are you happy that a writer from Alita will work on the new Kotor trilogy?
No.
Wait, there's going to be a new Kotor trilogy.
Is that the one that Dan and Dave are doing?
I hope to God, not.
I mean, we shall see.
I love, I love Godzilla King of the Monsters,
but I think it's pretty bad objectively.
It's funny how people get aneurysms over a concept like that.
Poor Eric and Jack shame.
Oh, I mean, you know.
Wait, are Eric and Jack like vehement defenders of Godzilla?
I don't, I don't, I've never heard of that.
I assume that was unrelated or maybe, maybe it is related.
I don't know.
But, um.
Did you know that Brian Johnson is doing it?
Oh, I love how it's just never going to be over.
Hey, Wolf, are you ever going to watch a Star Wars movie after episode died?
I don't think I can stomach anymore after episode nine.
You won't watch episode 10.
You won't watch Star Wars, a Ryan Johnson story.
Oh God, a Ryan Johnson story.
Yeah, those people love King of the Monsters,
and I can see why the fight sequences were awesome.
It's just, holy shit, the story.
Also, I get to watch this live.
Oh, boy.
Yes, I love your Star Wars videos.
What program do you use to sync your voice to film clips?
I'd like to do that.
Sony Vegas 16, I believe, is the one I use.
You can use Adobe Premiere, even Windows Movie Maker.
Rags used Windows Movie Maker up until, I want to say, like four months ago or something.
Which is insane.
Which is insane.
So that's proof that, I think, isn't it Jeremy that says it like,
just get yourself a camera, all you need.
Grade A Under A used his phone and Windows Movie Maker.
I don't think you should really be Grade A Under A, but
just proves you can do it with literally anything.
I use ScreenFlow, which is pretty much the Mac Movie Maker.
And I'm trained on Avid and Final Cut Pro.
And I just use ScreenFlow because it's easy.
If on my way to milk my Rhino, I have to catch my breath after tying my boots,
does that mean I get to vote twice?
Yeah, depending on how far you ran, and if you ran, we can answer that.
We need more information because whether or not you can vote twice or three times
is a complicated affair.
What did you milk?
The Rhino.
How much?
I mean.
Yeah, we need to know how much you milked as well.
Or you're going to milk.
Also, two as well, in addition, secondarily, I appreciate you guys.
Do you want to know the name of this person, the Super Chad, by the way?
It's Bulbas Bunkleton.
They're multiplying.
Happy Tuesday, you massives.
Why thank you.
Those fuckers were on Fenestream yesterday, too.
Yeah, these bots have been getting around.
Like I said, I saw them on Jstream, and you just need to mod people,
and the mods will win eventually.
Good to know that mods are more passionate than the literal bots.
They're more aggressive.
Um, more YouTube free money for long, man.
Why thank you.
They target every channel that happens to be streaming on YouTube.
No point in complaining because they'll go at it at the end of the stream.
They'll go at it at the entire stream.
Well, they did stop.
Well, didn't you turn off the links?
Oh, right.
Yeah, I guess everyone should do that.
I don't even know why that was on, though, because like,
have we ever needed a link to be posted in chat?
Like, why would that even move?
Haven't we posted links multiple times in the chat?
Yeah, but I thought that mods are still allowed to.
I haven't been a mod forever.
No, no.
What I'm saying is like, when have we ever needed a mod
for a link from like chat members?
I don't think we've ever needed.
So it's like, it shouldn't be any loss from doing that.
Yeah.
Um, I've only ever heard of that new Men in Black film
and watching Godzilla a couple weeks back.
Must be pretty low confidence.
I only found out that late.
No wonder it's failing.
Yeah, I've heard nothing but bad things, which isn't exactly a surprise.
Either of you guys seen, heard, or gonna watch that faster.
God, no.
Godzilla?
No, no.
Men in Black.
Oh, oh, shit.
That's, that's out?
I think so.
Oh, I didn't.
That's out.
You're bombed.
It looks terrible.
Like, even Liam Neeson can't get me to.
I'm sure he's not in it for that long as well, probably.
He's probably in it as long as he was in that awful battleship movie
from like 2012 or whatever.
Long as Charles Dances and King of the Monsters.
Bullshit.
I love it in an interview.
He said that people were complaining to him that it was false advertising.
They wanted to see him more.
He's just like, there's nothing I can do about it.
I can't do what they told me to do.
Get him in more stuff.
While we're on the topic of X-Men, y'all watch the 90s animated series by
Sabarn.
It's got some problems, but it's the best visual X-Men adaptation.
I have not seen it.
Has anyone here seen it?
And the one with the wooden gun.
Because I've seen that clip.
I haven't seen anything more than that.
90s animated series by either Sabarn or Sabarn.
I don't know how they're pronounced.
Liam Hardar Neeson.
If it's the regular.
Yeah, I've seen it.
I loved it.
I thought it was fantastic.
It made more X-Men fans than the comics did.
I saw the one that has the intro that goes.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Is that that one?
If it's by Sabarn.
I don't know if I've ever heard Sabarn, but it was the one that was on Fox.
It was on Fox kids in the Saturday morning cartoons when they do those back in the 90s.
And Spider-Man, the series and Iron Man.
And someone in the chat said, I liked battle shit and put it a little on my face.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
When I saw it, I laughed really hard at the theater.
Have you have either of you seen battleship?
No, it's really awful.
It's really hilarious, too.
Wife was watching it.
I looked at it over her shoulder.
She likes Taylor kitsch from Friday Night Lights.
He's in it, I guess.
Yeah, it looked terrible.
It doesn't have Rihanna in it.
Yeah.
There was like three instances where they were about to say fuck and then they didn't.
Like it cuts off the word halfway through.
It's like, guys, stop it.
Either put it in there or don't.
Want to compromise the integrity of the board game that we're making a film out of.
So stupid.
There's this scene where they look at this monitor and it just
pulls up the image of like the battleship board game board.
And and it was supposed to be this cool moment and it was like,
this is the dumbest thing I've ever seen.
God, there wasn't like a Parker Brothers cinematic universe.
We would have had Monopoly movie and.
Oh, God, Foursquare, and it would have been awful.
Stupid.
And then they questioned whether we want to remake a season after it airs and they make
battleship movies out of a board game.
Battleship, I would suggest watching it like either drunk or high because it is so funny.
There's this scene where this big building explodes and this little retarded Asian
kid like slowly looks at the camera all shocked and I just couldn't stop laughing in the theater.
Oh, it's good.
John Carter.
I like John Carter.
It's a good movie.
Guys, what books does the Expanse TV series cover?
Isn't it one book per season?
Or is it not?
Covered a book and a half.
So it covers the season.
Book one ends in the middle of season two.
What is?
Uh, yeah.
So book one ends in the middle of the season because the book,
because they mixed in a little bit of book two into the first season
because Christian Avasarla isn't in book one.
So she's, I think she's mentioned briefly, uh, but, uh, Miller's, you know,
Miller's only in the first book.
Well, yeah.
When they go, he's in three and four.
I, the, the alive Miller.
Yeah.
The first part.
Yeah, sure.
I never made it that far.
I quit halfway through season one.
So that Mahler hates it.
I love home is the end of the first book.
And then they start the second book halfway through, uh, the second season.
And then it feels rushed because they, they do a third book in a half a season.
And yeah, it's just, yeah, it's just the whole thing was jarring.
I guess it's because they thought they'd be finished.
Right.
Or is it canceled and, and the whole premise of book three, I mean, honestly is, uh, something
stops too fast with a bunch of people inside of it.
And then there's just bodies everywhere and they're just trying to pick up from them
and they'll skirmishes start out.
And, uh, I mean, the cool thing about the books that I like about the show, but I'm sure
Wolf likes about the books is it's a constant string of things going sideways and going to hell
and dealing with it, uh, with all these outside forces going.
And it's like everything that could go wrong will go wrong
based on some very bad decisions by people.
So, but it's done well.
It's done very well.
I also like that every book is mostly self-contained.
I mean, it still follows the same plot points from the last book, but
each book has its own contained plot line.
And they feel like distinctly different.
And, uh, but yeah, it's, it's, it's, you know,
it doesn't stop blowing me away.
It's the same two guys writing this.
And, uh, I'm starting to fit eight books in.
I think I can figure out who writes what chapter now.
No, I, I'm not familiar with either of the author.
I only know them through the expanse.
So, but I think it's, I think it's actually really cool how it's so seamless.
Like it doesn't feel jarring between chapters.
No, not at all.
It's like I said, it took me eight books to figure it out.
I probably have to reread them and like, or probably read at least one of their individual
works to figure it out for sure.
I heard Morla hates science fiction because space is so massive.
Give me power of mod.
I will mod so hard.
Well, we made it past the, the horrible moment of not having mods.
We're all good for now.
So I've been on a movie binge before I go off to college.
Is it bad that I think pulp fiction is incredibly overrated
and that Predator, the Arnold one, is one of the worst movies ever?
Problem with you.
Yes.
Yeah, that is a problem.
That's a big problem.
That's bad.
There's medication that can help with that, I think.
Talk to your local practitioner of health.
They'll be like, you don't like the Predator?
Oh, okay.
Go, no, Predator.
And they're like,
that's, that series is so confusing.
Predator, the Predator, Predators.
You're like, what are you gonna, what's gonna.
Predator two, aliens versus Predator, aliens versus Predator, Requiem.
Requiem.
Requiem was so bad.
I'm going to bed now.
If you're not still streaming when I wake up, I will be disappointed.
Slice and dice and rub and tug my brothers.
Click here for sexy ladies.
The deep meme.
Efap with Gary the Dawn smiles upon us.
Gary the Dawn?
I mean, yeah, if you're comfortable with that, Gary,
being thrust upon the label of the Dawn.
Gary the Dawn.
On any Dawn, to be honest with you.
Minorill.
But if I had to.
Beep boop can't stand the bots.
Don't stop the bots.
Yeah, that's very good.
Would you smash Sophie Turner or Emilia Clarke?
I mean, Emilia Clarke seems to have the awesome personality
from interviews that I've seen.
And that's a, it goes a long way.
Yeah.
Clarke for sure.
Your eyebrows alone.
Just, you're the best at business.
The eyebrows, like her eyebrows,
like their own, they need their own acting agent.
Wait, do I need to look her up?
Because I don't remember noticing her eyebrows.
Her eyebrows do like 90% of her acting most of the time.
Her eyebrows.
Oh, that's not a criticism.
She's got one of those infectious laughs.
She seems cool when she thanked the free folk.
That was cool.
So the eyebrows to Emilia Clarke are like the,
the toe thumbs for Megan Fox.
I think Emilia is cute and cool.
Wolf Sempai, are you and Rags going to release your seven hour long sex tape for Efap 40?
You've been teasing your steamy relationship for several Efaps now.
I know the tension is killing me and thousands of Efappers.
Well, you're going to have to talk to Rags about that because he won't do it.
He rejects me all the time.
Until Rags denies it ever happens, Wolf will not release it.
The dog would not approve of goat porn, Doddus Vault.
Hey guys, I tried debating on the internet
and the person I replied to threatened to kill me.
So I'll leave this stuff to you guys.
Have a good one.
Magneto needs to age 40 years the next five.
Yep, it'll all fit.
It'll make sense.
When you're going to get the Act Man back on, also love y'all.
We've got to like, if you look back at all the guests of Efaps,
what are you going to get all of the back on?
It's like, it's tough to make a queue in which-
That 24 hour stream, man.
Yeah, there we go.
We'll get them all.
Every single one on.
I don't know how I'm going to do that.
Like tell everybody like a month in advance.
That's the day it's happening.
But if you're not, I'll hate you.
Alright guys, you're going to have exactly five minutes to talk.
Say something interesting in that five minutes.
Then we got to cycle to the next one.
I'm thinking of doing like the Efap Rogues Gallery for that episode.
Like we cover all of the people we've covered,
but like new videos from each of them.
You know, you go through your Quintins, your Jax, your Eric.
Dude, by that point, Tonaled will have like his channel recreated.
Maybe we buffer them all with a Tonaled video.
Or part of a Tonaled.
Limited potential for a 24 hour Efap.
How good slash bad do you think the new mutants will be?
With one I've heard of it, it looks like it's going to be a train wreck if it even happens.
What is holding it back?
Because it's all done, right?
Just like legal stuff?
Well, as far as I know, they've like changed the rating from PG-13 to R like four or five times.
Like they don't know what they're doing.
I don't know if it's ended or finished filming yet.
I just know that it seems like the whole set's filled with incompetence.
Happens way more.
A lot, a lot more.
But I think I think it's done.
Yeah, I don't know what the hell's going up.
I did hear the same thing that they're they keep changing the rating.
Oh, what?
God damn what?
Everybody's such everybody's these days.
Anyway, what makes an R rated movie?
Did they show side boob?
Did they scare somebody?
Is there a squirt of blood?
I'm excited to see it in an R rating.
You have to have at least something interesting.
Do they just say fuck all the time?
That could be it.
Kid boobs wouldn't even get you a rated R.
Oh, dude, that's what we did mention.
That was weird.
What did you think of when they mentioned killing Jean Grey and then Cyclops was like,
if you get him in here, I'll fucking kill you.
I was like, whoa, look at you.
Pretending like he has balls.
One of the worst things, the worst crime of the entire X-Men franchise is what they've done,
the Cyclops.
I know he's at one time he was not a very popular character.
I think he's more popular now.
It's and to forget about Cyclops and the Dark Phoenix started to get all nerdy on you.
It fundamentally tears apart a dumb story.
The only reason they did Dark Phoenix was to mark their territory.
Again, I think they were doing it to F with Disney.
I don't think they cared about actually telling the story.
They wanted to beat Disney to the punch.
It was supposed to be a first female Marvel lead and they wanted to beat Captain Marvel.
They just rushed.
They're all Dark Phoenix.
We got this already.
We got Simon Kirburger who practically wrote.
I mean, he just rewrote his Last Stand script.
That was all an attempt to beat to the first female.
This is the conspiracy theory.
There was supposed to be two films and blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, Cyclops was stupid.
I don't know where I went down.
I went way down on that one.
When it turns out it was better to have his face sucked off in the third movie
than to be in Dark Phoenix.
Probably, yeah.
Well, they'll give the Dark Phoenix storyline.
Another shot in the MCU.
Give it 10 years or whatever.
Maybe it'll be good.
They need to have a pretty lengthy break before bringing back X-Men.
Agree.
I could watch Dark Phoenix now and be back in time well before the end of the CFAB.
What a wonderful world we live in.
Oh, what a world we live in.
Don't be a massive live long, long man bad.
I agree with all of those statements.
Wolf, how's Breath of the Wild going?
It's going good.
I suck at it, but I'm loving it.
All right, then.
Notice me senpies.
That is from an account that's named some weird guy.
You are noticed.
You need to notice the weird guy.
You are noticed, weird man.
Hey, Mauler.
Split this up evenly between you, Raga's, and the other canine massive.
I demand some form of proof for the even split.
Yeah, it's 50 euros.
I'll figure that out.
And get it to them.
And then proof.
I guess I'll just think and both say they got it at the beginning of the next CFAB.
I don't know.
That should work.
I will make a note.
Fifty divided by three.
Maths for one day.
Happy Father's Day to the Dawnfather of the orphans.
Yes.
Clearly you guys don't see the value that Magneto sees for a dramatic entrance.
Yeah, it's undeniable.
It powers him up to have a dramatic entrance, too.
To have his arms out in the cool way.
I guess to have the cape float.
Did he have a cape in this one?
Trench coat on.
Trench coat is good enough.
Good enough.
So did Phoenix turn X3?
It was a McKellen one.
I believe the dramatic entrance.
Oh, I like it.
I wanted to do more.
More Ian McKellen, Magneto.
He was cool.
He's cool.
He's cool as everything.
He should be more things.
So did Phoenix turn X3 to Citizen Kane?
I don't understand.
I don't know about that.
I've never hate...
I mean, Last Stand is...
X3 is bad.
X3 is in...
Yeah, okay.
I got enough.
No, yeah.
Last Stand is still...
People consider it pretty awful.
I don't think Dark Phoenix was nearly bad enough to make Last Stand look even remotely good.
Well, there you go.
Don't get me started on watching Wolf play Breath of the Wild.
If there's any proof to calling Wolf autistic, that'd be it.
Love you, Wolf.
It's from James Moore.
You motherfucker, James Moore.
When you first sold a game, I was supposed to...
This was his plan to buy you it just to say you suck at it.
He made me buy the game so that I could suck at it and make an ass of myself, yeah.
Dark Phoenix is an infinitely better movie.
Than Captain Marvel do.
The simple fact that Jean Grey never lays a hand on Saint Dawn the Benevolent.
Yeah, Saint Dawn the Benevolent.
True.
You like, she doesn't actually hit it.
Imagine you just turned up in the film.
He's like, hey, need a ride?
Jean Grey's like, yes, please.
They do, and everything's happy.
It's like, is he Captain Marvel as host?
May have gotten a pass for Galaxy's Edge from my works trip to BL this week.
Planning on doing the full treatment to see if it's crap.
I'm not even sure what Galaxy's Edge is.
Do you want to update me on that, Gary?
Do you know what it is?
I feel like I've heard of that, but I don't know what it is.
Or Wars Land at Disneyland.
And they're calling it Galaxy's Edge.
Galaxy's Edge, it's a brand new planet.
It takes place in the new trilogy universe, a planet called Batuu.
And it's like Jakku, but slightly different.
I know it's really creative thinking there.
And it doesn't have any original trilogy characters at all.
It has the Millennium Falcon, but it's the one with the square radar dish.
And that's the, there's a ride there.
There's a bunch of shops.
You can get a soy green or blue milk.
Soy green.
Soy green or soy blue milk.
Get some soy.
And yeah.
And a lot of people are, some people have loved it.
Some people hate it.
Think it's a waste of time.
You have to wait in a bunch of extra lines.
And I don't know if you guys have been to Disneyland in LA or Anaheim.
It's crowded as it is.
So yeah, that's Galaxy's Edge.
I hope it's fun.
I'm too old to go to Disneyland now.
I'm too jaded.
Rip Fallout Saga with thumbs under his applause.
Fallout Saga.
Are they referencing the whole battle royale thing?
Maybe, I don't know.
That was amusing.
Soy lint green.
Quicksilver was the only good part of the last two movies.
And the fact that they mad him, made him, mate.
The fact that they pummered him.
Do you need to send this as a screenshot and have me read it?
Pummered him.
Comment.
C-O-M-A-S-D him.
What am I missing here?
They-
Just screenshot it and let me see.
I can interpret this, I'm sure.
I speak retard.
What's this?
Let me see.
Quicksilver was the only good part of the last two movies in the family.
They can mad-
See?
And the fact that they can mad him with made me big sad.
You know, it was really-
It was really coherent for like the first half of the comment and then
can mad him happen.
I'm trying to think, what is the word supposed to be?
Co-mad.
The fact that they-
I'm trying to figure that out, I don't know.
I'm having a stroke mid, you know.
The fact that they can mad him, they can-
I don't-
Can mad-
Not killed because he didn't die.
People are saying it could be cameoed, but that's a weird spelling mistake.
I don't know.
He was a little bit bigger than just a cameo too.
Co-mad him.
Co-mad him.
Co-mad him.
Co-mad.
There you go.
They co-mad him.
Okay, there you go.
He just needs an apostrophe.
Yeah, there you go.
Command him.
Command him.
Be commanded.
We did it.
The pumpkin.
That's it.
There you go.
Chat and the hosts work together to solve the mystery, and I agree.
It sucks that they combed him.
I guess I need to get better at my retard.
I thought I was naturally good at it.
You said you could translate.
You lied.
I know.
I'm sorry.
I guess I'm even more retarded than I-
Where's Raghuz?
I've explained it too many times.
Raghuz is in Doggo Paradise is where he is.
I was disappointed with AP the moment it started.
They turned a villain as interesting as Thanos into a cartoon doomsday villain.
Could have been the last film to unite humans and mutants finally.
What's AP?
Do they mean Dark Phoenix, or do they mean someone else?
Why would it be Dark Phoenix?
I mean, they could have accidentally hit A instead of D.
But those are two keys apart.
Yeah, people have very large massive fingers.
I don't know.
AP.
Thanos.
Thanos is mentioned today.
Avengers.
They turned a villain as interesting as Thanos into a cartoon doomsday villain.
Apocalypse?
Maybe.
That could be apocalypse, yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, people say apocalypse, you boobas.
It's like, AP?
Come on.
Could you just say apocalypse?
AP is not a abbreviation for apocalypse.
American Pie.
Oh, I haven't heard that reference in forever.
Predator, but yeah.
Hello there.
Hello.
I think Famke Jansen was a better actress.
I'd have to rewash them.
I can't remember if she was particularly good or not.
Someone said APOC A-Lips.
Access point.
That would be APA-L, Apple.
Hey, Mauler.
Thoughts on Banjo-Kazooie in Smash?
That's awesome.
I think it's cool.
I don't get quite as hyped as everyone seems to with these sorts of things.
Like, I want Freddy and Jason in Smash, Maul.
I want Alien and Predator in there, you know.
That makes more sense to me than putting Banjo-Kazooie.
Like, what is that?
Autistic patriarchy.
Yeah, awesome.
I'm looking forward to seeing who the last two mystery characters will be.
Hopefully they'll be equally as amazing and stuff.
Would you say Dark Phoenix had a suspicious amount of women?
I would.
I would say that.
And large digits.
Mauler, when you have the time, watch Jonathan, Prager, You, or Logos made flesh.
They do symbolic analysis of movies, myths, and like.
They're quite good and you might enjoy them.
Jonathan Pago, Padew.
I don't know how to pronounce that, I'm afraid.
Aju-Pray.
Jonathan.
Okay, I'm just, if I just Google it, it'll probably.
Ever since we had that super check calling the Don Donathan, I can't not think of Donathan.
The first video result for that name is Jordan Peterson the Heretic with Jonathan Pageau.
For the Don?
No, no, this is about it.
Anyway.
According to the Dead Sea Scrolls, the power of objective film criticism
reaches its peak during a full moon.
Is this objectively true?
Wolf, is that true?
What?
Yes.
Yeah, okay, there you go.
I just need a confirmation.
I was pretty sure it was true.
I just didn't want to say it, you know.
It's really true.
Don't want to spread lines.
Is what true?
I don't know.
The Alien vs. Aliens thing has always come across as more of a genre battle to me.
One is excellent horror.
The other one is awesome action-horror hybrid.
I agree.
That's why I always find it interesting to just ask what people think,
because I think it's pretty tough to definitively say one is superior to the other,
though I know which one I would fight for if I was to have that conversation.
I think we had it with Fenna in the other stream.
I just prefer Alien, but they're different genres.
I don't think they're really worth comparing.
Worth comparing it?
Why not?
Well, comparing which one is better when they're two different genres?
I don't know.
I don't think genres stop you from being able to do that
when you're just looking at it as a story thing.
I just think they're both amazing at what they're trying to do.
I guess it depends on which one you're doing,
but are there really any huge story flaws in either of them?
No.
Well, I mean, not that I'm aware of.
Maybe there is.
I mean, I can't think of any.
Before you criticize someone, walk a mile in their shoes.
That way, you're a mile away from them and you have their shoes.
Ashford in the show is far better than Ashford in the books.
It probably has to do with the actor portraying him.
I would go as far as saying it's the actor and the writing.
I think that I really like to get if he's in the next season,
I'll be actually much more interested in just checking it out.
Mola, please forgive Rags and unban him, please.
Okay.
Here is currency for Al, given to Mola so he can control his voicetisms.
I don't think I don't know if five dollars will allow him to do that,
but I don't know why you'd want that.
Why wouldn't you want him to buy the $5 webcam or something from,
I don't know, Goodwill.
Probably worse than what he's got, even if it does turn him into the mouth of Sauron.
I love that if that was on the box,
it was like, we'll randomly give you a voice change.
You're like, okay.
Read the super chats before reading them out loud.
You realize how long we're going to be here.
I typically, if I realize I'm reading something terrible, I stop.
That's usually how I do it.
Finally, I was having withdrawal symptoms.
Yes, we're back.
How long has this Ephab been?
Didn't we have one like just a week and a half ago?
Well, funnily enough, Fortier, I was talking to him the other day.
He was like, God, you guys do an Ephab way more often now.
And I was like, once per week.
And he was like, no, it's way more than that.
And I was like, it's not.
It's really long.
Yeah, I think it's just time to do this more than once a week.
No, it's people.
Well, that's good.
If people think that there's more content that exists than is like that.
That's a win for us.
Entertainment aliens is just a rip off of Fern Gully.
Rags is no longer with us.
Goliath has carried him to Valhalla, shiny and chrome.
Maybe we'll find out.
My art professor always said a painting consists of an idea and a skill.
The idea is subjective, but your skill isn't.
Love you guys.
Even the theory is okay.
Yeah, the idea is subjective, but the skill isn't.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Ephab baby update at hospital.
No baby yet.
All right.
Getting close.
The arrival of a brand new human.
Mauler has a flump baldingus.
I know that reference.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
That's a compliment.
Wolf, have you read the Red Rising trilogy by Pierce Brown?
And if so, thoughts.
I have the first book, but I haven't had the chance to.
And does the panel prefer fantasy or sci-fi?
Hmm, that's interesting because I read a lot more fantasy, but I've always preferred sci-fi.
I guess it's just harder to find quality sci-fi things.
The thing for me is, I don't know if I care.
I just want it to be great.
I'll take a both.
I love a both.
Yeah, I yeah, that's weird.
And I see when it's done great and it's rarely done great.
There's there's classics out there, but
sci-fi has a little really good, good stories that aren't that don't blow me away all the time.
But yeah, sometimes sci-fi gets a little too out of hand, depending on the.
I've seen a lot of stories that like go off the wall and lose their shit at some point.
I suppose it's harder to remain grounded compared to fantasy.
A lot of fantasy is just based on everything that already exists.
Like there's this one sci-fi book I started looking at.
Like there's this one sci-fi book I started reading where they like transfer your brains
and they can like give you robot eyes and shit.
And I was like, this is just get a little too far for me.
That makes complete sense, Wolf.
Expanse is like really good in that sense, where it's grounded and really good.
It's really good in that sense that it's grounded and really good.
I'm sorry.
Uh, it's nice to see Al in eFap.
Now we just need to get a monk, porky, and fortier on as well.
Still waiting for your Outlast 2 critique and the RE7, not a hero critique.
That's so never gonna happen.
I said at the end of my Resident Evil 7 video that I'll totally do a video for the DLCs.
The DLCs were so god-awful that I was like, I'm not wasting time reviewing these.
It's not happening.
Sorry for anyone who enjoyed them.
They were just so terrible.
And Outlast 2.
Yeah, I don't think I'll ever get around to it.
But if I did, uh, I've heard a lot of bad about it.
Well, the thing is, like, I thought the first one was terrible.
And so everyone's been saying it's terrible compared to the first one.
And I was like, oh.
Which means it's either really good or even worse.
Pretty much.
Um, thank you, Nidrotik, for braving the domain of the toxic brood.
I hope it wasn't too bad a time for you.
We had fun having you on.
Have a great week.
I thank you.
It was great being on.
This is, this is great.
You should see my chat sometimes, especially lately.
Yeah, I mean, this is the thing.
It's impressive.
You've lost it this long.
You're already in the annals of, uh, of, of.
Ifapdom.
How many people have, I think Jay is the number one guest for time spent.
And then, like, stayed for, like, ridiculous amounts of time.
I think Jeremy did, actually, but that kind of makes sense.
Because you guys actually do long streams as well.
What we're doing here is an alien to you as a concept, which is.
Jeremy has no life.
He's not doing anything.
Damn, that's some Dead Space type spit.
I think that's in reference to you guys describing the horrors of the book two.
Oh, yes.
Some of the, uh, or no, that was book one.
Some of the stuff that happened in Leviathan Wix was pretty reminiscent of Dead Space.
That's why it was part of why I liked it.
I love you.
Oh, go ahead.
No, no, I was just going to say, I really, we were talking about earlier,
what was I would love for them to revisit the horror aspect really drew me in.
Like the whole, like all the battle shit that they did in
the end of TMS Wrath and combined with Leviathan Wix.
Like if they do that in the last book, that'll just be so fucking cool.
Will be amazing.
I can't fucking wait for it.
I had later this year, a few months.
I think it comes up next year because TMS Wrath came out this year.
That was due to a printing error.
You know, they might push it back because of that.
Yeah.
Cause there was a printing error and they had to bring,
they had to recall all the books and reprint it again.
Dude, if it comes out this year, I'm fucking racing you to finish that book.
And then we're talking about it for like 12 hours.
He's going to be talking about both.
Yes. We'll read it.
Talk about it in 24 for 20.
Oh, we're going to talk about for 24 hours.
I'm going to blaze through that book though.
This is the most hyped have been for a book since like high school.
And the last time I was hyped for a book this much,
it turned out really disappointing.
I hope that doesn't happen again.
I don't know what you mean.
Get inside for media and it's disappointing.
I've never experienced that.
What is that?
Well, they've had eight books.
They're going good so far.
Just just don't just don't suck for the last one, please.
I've become too invested in this for it to be bad.
I all love your work, but can't stay due to work.
Pip pip doodly doo everyone.
I remember you saying that off.
They usually have a title by now.
They don't have a title announced.
They don't have a date announced.
I thought it was coming out next year.
Maybe then.
The Expanse book nine.
Oh yeah, they don't have a title yet.
Probably is just coming out next year then.
I imagine they must be taking their time with it
since it's the one they got a lot of things to wrap up.
Objectively, Efap is the best podcast.
I think.
Did I read that one before?
Is that the same one again?
I don't know.
Either way, is that it?
Tell me.
He said, I'm studying theoretical physics
and I can attest to the physical correctness of this show.
It's insane how close they are to proper physics.
All right.
Steve White in the chat says has nerd Roddick got a pizza baby going.
No, I sure do.
Lateness is heavy handed gentleman,
but Geode was kind and here is glad.
And this we get in.
In references to videos made by people
who've been on Efap to become Efap memes,
like there's no limits to this.
Just finished Leviathan's wake last night.
Already started Caliban's war.
Oh, Caliban's war is so good.
Why don't they just fly bombers over Eros and drop bombs?
No.
Oh, is that just a.
I think that's the last Jedi reference.
I was doing a lot.
Comic Con tickets.
Well, I just put it on.
Going to Comic Con.
Oh, you going to Comic Con?
San Diego Comic Con.
I go almost every year.
I've been to 38 out of the 50.
Wow.
I grew up down there and this is my last one.
It's Comic Con number 50.
I got my tickets stoked.
George RR Martin has stated that he has nearly started writing The Winds of Winter.
Nearly started.
Just give it a few more years.
He'll write the prologue.
Everyone's excited for the announcement that he started.
Everyone's waiting for it.
Like, oh god, you're coming.
Doing a video.
A song of Ice and Dawn.
Dang, I was just about to watch this show.
Oh, well.
Also, Wolf, I just finished the first book and enjoyed it.
How similar is it to the show?
I mean, I don't like the show at all.
I just stick with the books.
It's one of the situations where it's like, I'll admit up front.
I'm way too invested in the books.
I love them too much to look at the show and be like,
yeah, I'll watch this when it's so much less good.
I think it's good.
Give it a shot.
You always want to try.
I've given it two shots.
I tried to give it a shot.
No, he's saying to the super chatter I imagined.
Oh, okay.
Oh, you give up.
You can give it a shot.
I tried it twice.
Episode four is where I bail.
So we want somebody's in or out of a TV show.
That's for sure.
I can't wait for the new woke Lara Croft game
that explores her choice to have an abortion.
They're calling it.
They're calling it Lara Croft womb raider.
Beautiful.
Hey, just wanted to thank you for bringing objective criticism back
into the spotlight with your calm, soothing voice.
Glad I found you.
And I'm now working on a long script inspired by your work.
Thank you for being you.
Thank you for the kind words.
And oh, it's another half to it.
Also, thanks for introducing me to Wolf Rags,
Robot Head, Fringy, Smiler Jared, The Dawn and others.
You're all awesome.
Nodrotic YouTube, but I already knew you.
I was from Man-no-shun, Man-no-shun.
Now, when he says knew you, he means that in biblical sense, right?
No, he means it in like a stalker sense.
He watches it go away from his way.
Yeah, I believe he watches me sleep.
I guess that's almost like the biblical sense.
I'm close with my subscribers, so.
Good luck with your script.
May it be long and massive.
This is for the this is for throat pastels for Gary.
You regularly have throat pastels.
Pastel what?
That's a throat pastel.
You mean, cough and stuff?
Yeah, probably.
I've done a lot of coke and I used to smoke cigarettes.
That's what it says.
I do.
It's that's it's a thing.
I've done a crapload of cocaine and meth in my lifetime
and smoked packs of cigarettes for many, many years.
I quit, but yeah.
I thought you were memeing at first.
Was that?
I said you were memeing at first.
No, no, yeah, that's definitely a real thing.
It is interesting.
I'm sure you you must have a lot of fun stories with all of that.
No, not memeing at all.
I'm a grateful recovering alcoholic and addict.
I used to make I used to cook meth in the 80s with bikers
and that's not a meme.
It's not a joke.
And yeah, survive.
Well, good for you.
About gaming on YouTube.
It's a weird life, man.
I was going to say, like, of all the places
that that's a journey right there.
That's a whole there's a whole video there you can make.
Just tell it.
Tell the whole movie right there.
Yeah.
The rights to a Gary also takes it.
Uh, do I have the rights to my own movie?
Maybe.
No, it'll take it.
It'll adapt it to a terrible TV show.
Breaking dawn.
Breaking Gary.
Breaking Don.
Breaking Gary.
Uh, shut up and take my money.
Yes.
Thoughts on Ryan Hollinger.
Uh, I don't know who that is.
Anyone know?
No, Mr. GG.
Anyone?
No.
Okay.
Seth Sintak.
I think Rags knows that person.
I still don't know who they are.
JonTron.
I like JonTron's content a lot.
He makes me laugh.
He's a very silly man.
And I it's interesting how his channels progress over time.
I'm indifferent.
I don't really watch his stuff.
Mr. B. Tong.
GGP Grey.
I know that one.
He makes videos trying to bite-size relatively complicated issues.
And then sometimes just makes ones that are kind of silly for fun and stuff.
Cool.
Um.
JonTron.
Sorrow TV.
Not heard of them.
Internet historian.
I've heard of them.
Oh, I'd like an internet historian.
He's funny.
And Austin McConnell and Gedis.
How come I don't recognize hardly any of these?
I haven't heard most of those either.
I need to brush up on my YouTube peoples, apparently.
Be a quiz for it.
Yeah.
Sorry, the not more interesting responses there.
I just haven't heard of hardly any of these, unfortunately.
Tyler, I think you might just need a new mic.
He probably does.
Well, we'll sort that out.
I mean, fuck.
If he just made a video, he might be able to just be like,
you want to see more, buy me a microphone.
Where's daddy rags?
There's a lot of those questions.
Do people care about rags?
Is that a thing?
I didn't know, but I guess so.
Wow.
What are your top five best written villains in movies and or TV from a from an objective view?
Oh, boy.
Movies and TV.
Like that's oh, that's not someone I can answer quickly.
That's a lot.
I'd have to really pour some thought into that.
Yeah, that's that's a question.
Take like an hour to respond to or I'd say like the emperor is my favorite villain or
one of my favorite ones at least.
Just because he's so fun.
Please don't ruin him an episode.
Pine.
They've done it.
I know, but they don't want it to happen.
The land before John.
Yeah, that's a that's a really difficult question to answer.
I just look for top villain lists and you're probably going to find some of the best just in general.
I'd have to go through my top five movies and then kind of go from there, I guess.
Then there's villains that are bad movies that I like that are good villains.
That are good villains.
I like Hannibal's a good villain, but that's on the nose.
You got to put a lot of thought into a good villain.
I agree.
What about Fastscape and DS9?
I have not seen DS9, but I have seen Fastscape.
And yeah, I don't hate Sapphire or anything in case that was assumed.
And yeah, Fastscape is cool.
It's like a little show that sort of could.
And nobody's really heard or seen about it.
It's a kind of fringy, but still pretty big in scope.
Not surprising they were able to make it because it's kind of bizarre.
Kind of low budget, but it's it's awesome.
Greed.
A zillion years old.
How does it feel watching everything you care about die?
Yeah, yeah.
Terminator's back on the chopping block.
I feel like it's this big wheel that Alien, Predator, Terminator, Star Wars.
They're all on it and they all just get their tune every so often.
Because the next Alien film will be coming next after this next Terminator one is terrible.
I thought that Fox was taking that away because
he was that Ridley Scott was going insane.
And don't worry, Lee.
I mean, I had I don't know if I can't confirm this, but I had heard that
Fox was like axing aliens because it was shit and nobody liked it.
Oh, I didn't know that.
But yeah, I mean, maybe that's I mean, I've heard no news about aliens.
This covenant came out.
I would assume that was three years ago.
I just assumed they're going to reboot it eventually.
When did how different how different got retarded?
How long has it been?
Was it from Prometheus to Alien Covenant?
Alien Covenant release date because I feel.
Oh, that was in 2017.
Okay.
Okay.
And Prometheus came out in really five years apart.
Because they were like, you're going to screw this up again.
He was like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Well, I guess in another three years we can expect alien to die again.
Yeah, it'll it'll happen until it will have its death again.
I mean, and also in 2021, we can expect Jurassic Park to die again for the fifth time.
This is what I mean is a big wheel.
It's like it's like what Danny says in Game of Thrones.
Like Jurassic Park, Alien Predator.
They're all just spokes on a wheel.
He's like, I see what you mean.
You want to stop.
Then we get to have Lord of the Rings with the Amazon series and the Wheel of Time and the Witcher.
The Amazon series.
The only thing we can pray for is it's A, it's good.
Uh, and they're bringing on a bunch of Game of Thrones people or B
into production.
I don't know what the date is, but they have, they have a specific date
and if they pass that date and it's the cameras aren't rolling and things are moving,
the rights revert back to the Tolkien estate and they get to keep their money.
Please, for the love of God, let that happen.
In 2019, or I think, yeah, we need a whole new group of creators in Hollywood or somewhere else.
Hey, Mullen, do you like any comedies?
Yes, the quick, easy answer I usually have is the Cornetto trilogy.
Monty Python.
Fucking.
Ulti towers.
Black out of these.
Hot Rod.
Hot Rod, yeah.
There's loads and loads of things.
You know what?
Something new I can add to the list is the tick.
Dun, dun, dun.
But yeah, load stuff.
This movie can't be real.
I'm not sure if they're referring to a video at that point.
Hard to tell the timeline for the Super Chat sometimes.
TLJ.
Worst movie ever.
Dark Fate.
Hold my beer.
Does that mean Dark Phoenix?
No, Dark Fate is the new Terminator.
Oh, fuck.
That's what it's called.
I forgot about that.
Because, you know, there is no fate for what we make and then they go Dark Fate.
It's like, fuck off.
Hate you.
You have to make things.
I hope to God you're wrong about John Connor just dying at the beginning of the film.
I hope I am too.
But if you look at the scenes, do you see them anywhere?
Uh, how are they going to explain it?
And they're, they're really going for it.
I'm sorry to go there on, on Efap everybody, but I'm sure you've
seen what's going on with the times up and the me too.
And they're just replacing, uh, you know, male characters.
Don't worry.
It's a stretch to assume there's something political happening when they've axed all
the male characters.
And suddenly there's a female Tiffany and protecting a female important person.
And Sarah Khan is the only main character coming back.
It's like, uh, okay.
Bear with me here.
I know this is retarded, but I mean, I gotta think retarded.
Think if I'm going to put myself in the shoes of the people making the new terminator,
I have to cut my intelligence by like 67%.
What if John Connor turned like he becomes an old man and the old man is Arnold Schwarzenegger.
And he was the original terminator.
That would be the greatest ending ever.
And it makes sense because John's arc was always about trying to stop the end of the world.
He, I can, I can make walk culture videos all day.
That would be better.
That would be better than what I told you guys.
So for sure.
I'd still have to watch it though.
And I just don't know.
I mean, like, I don't know if I have the heart to watch it after Genesis.
I'm very protective of a terminator, so I'll be seeing it and telling everybody why it's
the worst thing that's ever happened since the worst thing that's ever happened.
Yeah.
I mean, that's, I do that for Star Trek.
I mean, it's, it's arduous.
It's hell.
It's, it's the worst show I've ever seen.
And I watch every second of it and review every single one to
keep people from thinking it's real Star Trek to keep them away.
It's an uphill battle.
I'm getting a bunch of crap today on, on Twitter.
It's a good thing.
I don't spend any time on Twitter.
Yeah, I don't have a Twitter anymore.
And it's so nice.
Most of you don't recommend Twitter just at all.
I glanced at Mauler's Twitter today and I just looked at the, uh, the sidebar with all the
trending things.
And one of them was like, never Trump 2020.
And another was some, I don't remember what else it was, but it was something stupid.
It's always stupid.
Let's see what's on there now.
Twitter fosters bad, bad conversations.
Knock and just, oh, Holocaust that's trending.
Oh, it's right below Ed Sheeran though.
All right.
Below Ed Sheeran is the Holocaust ever feel like you're just walking around in some parody
somewhere.
I mean, yeah, sequels and the twin towers are gone.
And that sounds like a joke in a film, actually.
They'd be like, they have some awkward Twitter reference and they're like, uh,
Ed Sheeran is trending.
Yeah.
Right under Holocaust.
And then the audience have to laugh because reference.
Yeah.
That sounds dumb.
Anyway, uh, here we see the beginning of a soy boy waiting to become a soy man.
Oh, soyman.
Soyman.
You should check out Bob's recent meltdown.
He pissed.
He's pissed.
Critics didn't like Godzilla king of the monsters.
Oh, no.
Uh, hugs and kisses to you.
Waller and co.
Why thank you.
He almost said the F word.
The soy is strong with this one.
Prepare the pauses and fapping.
And we always prepare them well ahead of time.
We have a Bob for a second there.
And I was like, whoa, Bob almost says F word.
He says the faggot word.
Oh, Molly, you were my first with your Game of Thrones,
episode three and Bridal Rage.
Then I found Nudrotik and Doomcock.
Glad to hear you're doing more Game of Thrones episode.
Thanks.
Oh, yes.
The new ones are going to take a while, but it's going to be
cathartic for me and hopefully for the viewers.
Engage the two times speed.
Everyone just to speed up that first guy.
I just felt like it would have been a pinko.
He was so insufferable.
Yeah, you can't just go ahead and speed everything.
I don't know.
Have you guys seen the Astartis Warhammer 40K shorts?
I want to hear your opinion on them.
Oh, what?
I have no idea what that is.
Neither.
Everyone asked me about Warhammer 40K.
And it's like, I don't play it.
Yeah, none of us are into it.
I think Rags knows some stuff about it, right?
I think.
I don't know.
I would assume that he would know more than us.
But the war is it a Warhammer 40K TARDIS?
Is that what it is?
Astartis.
No, no, not TARDIS.
Because I'm looking at a Warhammer 40K TARDIS.
And Doctor Who fan.
I'm like, Oh, that looks pretty damn cool.
But no, I sold some in my comic shop.
I didn't know what I was selling.
But I don't know if this went through two streams ago,
but Game of Thrones was so bad that even a taxi driver
when I was in Eastern Europe complained about it.
I hate it.
Yes.
Yes.
The average people of the world who are just getting on with their lives,
who see these shows casually.
Those people hated it, too.
9 out of 10 taxi drivers do not recommend Game of Thrones.
Don't believe the one.
Taxi drivers, dentists.
What next?
Baseball players?
That's the big one.
Do you want to go?
By the way, Game of Thrones was crap this year.
You're on the clock.
You're on the meter.
Sorry, I was a bad Eastern European cab driver.
It was wonderful.
Guys, Lisp is pissing me off.
Must be quicker.
Wow, Wolf.
Being a massive racist of different languages.
Tsk tsk.
That's Wolf here.
What did I say about that?
Acid racist.
What?
This kid needs to go back to playing Fortnite.
Oh, yeah, he probably plays Fortnite.
When will Fortnite die?
We're looking at like a few years.
Not soon enough.
Just everywhere.
When will Epic die?
Hopefully next hour.
Fucking Epic.
I was listening to Fringy's podcast with Appabend,
and the amount of times they talk about a game
that's been announced that's on the Epic exclusive.
I was just like, oh, they've bought so many games.
You're the worst people.
You need to be flushed down a toilet or something.
But also, they don't get up from the sewer for a while.
I want them to sit down there for a while.
Yeah, like not until after decolonization is in.
Uh, me read big good.
Seamus really needs some speech therapy.
I mean, I, yes, but like I'll paste it to you guys.
He said really needs.
Seamus really needs some speech therapy.
Before D&D, there was Casey Hudson and Mac Walters.
A reference.
Anyone know those names?
Casey Hudson, one of the guys from Bioware.
I don't know.
Is it these are also terrible writers?
Is that the joke?
I feel like I've heard.
That's gotta be from Bioware, right?
I don't know the other name.
Casey Hudson.
Slowly zooms in.
Oh yeah, Mass Effect.
Oh, he's talking about the Mass Effect 3 ending.
That makes sense.
Oh yeah, that makes sense.
Slowly zooms in.
I'd like to see you make a show.
That's the best counter argument to any criticism.
You can't make it.
Therefore, you can't criticize it.
Done and done.
Well, I did.
I remade The Long Night in my latest video.
Go check it out.
I'm looking forward to it.
Miguel Sapochnik challenged me to do what the cinematographer did in The Long Night.
So I took a few action figures, my lighter, and I remade it.
Lispy Something Milk.
I'm not sure what that emoji is, but I'm on board with Lispy Milk.
No movie reviewer has ever snapped a DVD.
I was going to say, that's actually a big trademark of channel awesome days,
where they would be like, oh, Red Let Media still do it.
The whole, we'll destroy the tape.
I was so angry.
I snapped the tape, and then shows clip where he snaps it.
He's like, ooh.
You did it, buddy.
I did it.
Snaps a DVD.
He's insane.
Yep.
This kid's a double massive.
Atmolar, I'm so glad I found your channel.
You've encouraged me to think critically
and to put more effort into formulating my opinions.
Could you shout out my show, Let's Talk Shit.
It's a topic heavy gaming podcast on YouTube.
Let's Talk Shit Gaming on YouTube.
They talk about games, I imagine, and they like to think critically
and formulate opinions in relation to that.
And yeah, LTS gaming is another way to find them.
But I have microwaved a DVD.
Don't.
Don't.
The best part of the sonic changes, the people crying on Twitter
that the director is siding with the fans.
I wouldn't be surprised if the Flaming Lips hated that too.
Flaming Lips and I don't know the game reference.
I didn't know people were upset that the director decided to change Sonic.
The only one I know is that I'm upset.
No, no, no, not like, you know what I mean?
Like upset in defense of the film.
Unironically upset.
Okay.
Why are we building a 10-year-old again?
Sorry for missing you.
That's offensive.
That man was clearly 13 at least.
I can't believe you said that, James.
I'm upset.
Sorry for missing your summons.
My lunch ended and I had to go back to work.
My bad.
That's okay, James.
You're doing justified.
You didn't necessarily miss out on a lot.
If that was the video you came back to.
I actually kind of have to apologize.
Um, people didn't know that they would hate it.
Oh yeah, that's in relation to the whole like,
why'd you keep watching it if you hate it?
Maybe the next episode is good.
You just stop watching anything that gets anything bad?
I don't know.
Um, people also slow down to look at car accidents.
That's true.
Yeah, there's a big argument for how like watching these things
are like watching a train wreck and that can be entertaining.
Because I don't know about you guys,
but like, I like watching bad films a lot.
We have a whole thing on efap for it, actually.
It's efap movies where.
Well, if we watch, we haven't watched any good things on it yet, but soon.
That's my teaser.
That's what me and my friends, well, because I'm old.
So when I was like Wolf's age, that's what we did.
We didn't have YouTube channels.
So we went to the movies and talk shit in the movie theaters.
When usually on a day where not a lot of people were there,
we tried to be respectful.
But I, that's where I honed my skills.
You're nitpicking skills.
You don't appreciate my arts skills.
Well, I was high while watching art.
That was the deal.
Yeah, that's good enough.
I think I don't make sense.
Why do some people think the fans are bad for wanting a better product?
Because they're entitled and they couldn't make it themselves.
And when they argue that there's not enough conversations in dark rooms,
they're wrong because there's been like three, even five, even arguing.
That explains everything.
Everything.
Like the idea that like I said my video over to over the first
results is like, okay, so you can blame that there's like not enough
dark room conversations.
I'm like, what, how did you, where did you?
Mola, what do you think of this guy saying this scene is perfect?
Wolf, excuse me.
Cinematic perfection.
10 out of 10.
Not enough water IGN 2019.
Yeah, that pretty much Wolf's response to that was, was exactly what I was looking for.
And it wasn't to scholar of the last Don.
There are a lot of Don memes in the chat over Don.
Hollow Don Don peaks.
The Don rises.
The wicker Don.
Don grooms bordered on a silent Don Don gate.
The Don we saw that day.
Zero.
Don blood bull cop.
He does Don.
Don's new groove.
Don space program.
Don Lander.
Don of the Don.
Good.
Don Tays Inferno.
Don to the longest Don watershed.
Don Don and Don.
Does this guy think that George R.M.
isn't going to change stuff based on the fan reactions?
Yeah, by the way, like if anyone said no, he's going to stick exactly what he's like.
There's no way he's going to be able to avoid this influencing his choices
and how he's going to do everything.
If ever he wasn't happy with the ending.
Yeah, I've heard that as well.
Like this is no way that we get in the same thing.
It's not going to happen.
Or if we do, it'll at least have the fleshed out context to make it work.
The books are going to flatten the TV show and it finally gets released.
If it gets released, it's just going to be a.
Which is like a point one percent chance to be released.
It sounds to me that like the battle for the dawn will be the.
Sorry, the dawn.
I should just end right there.
It will be in the winter and then the Daenerys stuff will be a dream for spring.
And and it might even start out like this is mopping up after the battle for good and evil.
And then they build up the Daenerys thing throughout that entire book.
And that would kind of maybe work.
Yeah, old seasons are an anime.
Why not for this?
There's don't don't.
It's nothing.
I don't know.
Maybe one day.
Is this guy unaware that Devil May Cry 5 exists?
I don't know what that count is because I don't know what was said at the time.
But probably not.
He's probably not aware of a lot of things.
Eat.
Pray.
Don.
Did this guy just say we want a stealing solo?
That's the thing Jeff is working on, right?
Yeah, that's Jeff's that's Jeff's comic book from World Class Bullshitters.
Go subscribe.
Go subscribe to World Class Bullshitters.
They're trying to right now.
They're trying to.
Okay, there's a big William Shatner thing going on with unblocked Doomcock.
I don't know why Shatner blocked Doomcock, but he did it sign up.
He got Doomcock blocked and for $1,000, the charity that he unblocked Doomcock
and then World Class Bullshitters asked Shatner.
Hey, will you come on the show?
And he said, sure, for 30,000 of my charity.
So I think we're in the process of trying to.
3,000 I see I'm looking at the Twitter feed a little bit while I'm on this
and it seems like it's gone a little sideways.
I think we should kind of, I don't know.
I think it went a little sideways to be honest with you, but otherwise that's what Twitter does.
Maybe we should, I don't know, try to raise 30,000 for the charity.
Might be cool.
Get him on World Class Bullshitters.
I don't know where it stands though.
Right now.
I was talking to Jeff in the morning.
That'd be cool as hell.
Get the Shat on.
Get the Shat on.
The Shat on.
Or get Shat on.
I don't know.
I'm just going to read this as it's written.
Ah, agreement mauler.
And the equally loved.
Adopted boys.
The new terminator sounds no good, very but.
Why talk about that when Dash Spider-Man is coming out, geode?
Can you post that in the chat so I can see?
It's definitely one that needs deciphering,
but I think I understood the majority of that.
Agreement mauler and the equally loved.
Adopted boys.
Dash.
The new terminator sounds no good, very but.
Dash, why talk about that when Spider-Man is coming out, geode?
Spider-Dash-Man.
I put down agreements.
Get a lot of...
Jay, your video is influential.
I'm proud.
You, you, for once, you infected Efap.
I mean, that's, that doesn't usually happen.
We usually just infect other people's channels.
Geode.
What's geode?
I'm disappointed you don't know what that is.
Watch Jay's latest video.
I'm in it.
Geode.
Oh, I'm really behind.
I don't know why it's Jay.
Who's Jay?
I'm sorry, who's Jay?
Where's this video?
He's a massive.
Jay Exi is his massive name.
He's on YouTube.
He runs a channel that was previously known as SinSins.
He's kind of a jack of all trades.
You have no idea what he's going to release next.
But he recently did a video criticizing a browser game for Game of Thrones.
And like, it's terrible.
And then he made a follow-up looking at some of the defenses in the comments
that were rather amusing.
Geode.
It's funny.
He went through a whole character arc.
He was our enemy.
Now he's our friend.
Who knows what will happen eventually?
Maybe he'll become the villain again.
It'll be an interesting, like, complete arc.
Maybe we'll become the villain.
We'll?
We'll.
Oh, I'm really behind.
That's a super chat.
Just says I'm really behind.
All right.
Peter was I'm Elf.
Sometimes I wonder if the super chats are like,
we're accidentally tapping into random thoughts
that are going through the world and they just end up.
We man should play Tyrion in Game of Thrones reboot.
We man.
Is that a superhero?
We man.
Proto DeVito Bilbo Baggins.
Proto DeVito.
What about the midget from Seinfeld?
I don't know.
I never saw that show.
Yeah.
Well, who was that?
I can't even think of there being a midget in Seinfeld.
Because you're a midget racist.
That's true.
As the consumer.
That is all that's true.
I'm not going to argue with that.
Daniel Charles Danny Woodburn.
Wow.
He's still with us.
Daniel Charles Danny Woodburn.
Did they?
Did his parents just, like, get up on his name at the point?
Did the name print twice?
And they were like, fuck.
Maybe they thought he was going to be tall and he needed a longer name.
The opposite.
I don't know.
Some kind of ironic naming or something.
What?
His name is taller than him.
You stack the letters up.
It's taller than him.
Oh, we managed from Jackass.
Okay.
I didn't know that because I'm fucking watch Jackass since I was, like, died years old.
Donna Donnie.
But fair enough.
As the consumer, I'm entitled to a good product.
It's my right to bitch till blue in the face if I'm unsatisfied.
That is true.
Should run with that until those rights are taken away because, man,
is it nice to get your thoughts and feelings out there?
There it is, boys.
Something involving Captain Marvel being sexist.
We must be forgiven for our sins.
We are evil bigots that deserve damnation.
It's tough to get through an eFAB with some kind of reference to that.
And again, we have covered a lot of defense videos for Captain Marvel, too.
Those have been interesting, Gary.
You've missed out.
Really fun ones, especially the legal, legal ones.
That was enlightening.
Watch his video after you told me about it.
Did you love it?
Yeah, I kind of want to make a video about it.
But then after I I saw that our boy, oh, God, what was the name?
The kid we were just watching.
He's got one, too.
He's got a defense of Captain Marvel video, too.
If you saw just like three videos to the right from the one we were covering.
You told me about the first guy we were covering.
Seamus.
Seamus has a we're too hard on.
We were too hard on Brie Larson or something like that, which is well, I mean.
I like that I still haven't watched this terrible movie,
and I'm here shitting on people who are saying bad things about the movie and things.
Yeah, you are my video.
You pretty much sold the film.
All I remember is she blows up and gets superpowers that she fights in Oldman and kills Don.
He kills the Don.
For the sequel, the Don comes back with like a prosthetic hand that could vaporize her.
He comes back as a cable dead.
Wolf better be using.
Captain Sexist.
Wolf better be using a GameCube controller for SBU.
Smash Bros Ultimate.
How would I plug that?
GameCube?
GameCube.
GameCube.
Aren't the controller ports like.
I'm sorry, I'm.
You dying.
So, but aren't the GameCube controllers like the little ports like big old circle things?
Either you get an adapter or they've actually made one.
I mean, I know that there's actual switch controllers.
I haven't gotten one of those yet because I don't have the money to do that, but.
Well, the man will will condemn you if that's not the case.
I mean, I've been able to play it fine so far to see it actually wearing the controls.
Truly, there is no other more horrifying beast plaguing the earth than a Canadian.
A Canadian Yorkshireman.
We're doomed.
Oh, like a cross.
Canadians are all terrible.
You're not Canadian.
What about a Canadian Yorkshireman?
Oh, I am not Canadian.
Oh, thank God.
I don't have a problem with them, though, but.
Oh, don't worry.
One day you'll know the truth.
Doesn't this cabin boy realize that the OK hand gesture is an alt right symbol?
I mean, the media got it from 4chan, so it must be true.
Well, yeah.
If you can trust anyone, it's 4chan.
Going out of business sale, Star Wars merch unsold.
If it who's going to buy a Rose Tico doll, that's just always going to be the case.
Just like who and why.
The only thing people would buy it would be ones trying to prove that people would buy it.
That's it.
Or Ethan.
Yeah.
All people trying to burn it.
Haunting of Dawn House.
The true enemy of Game of Thrones was the dark rooms we conversated in along the way.
Yeah, that was it.
That was the big reveal.
D&D are going to talk about it in the documentary you're releasing in five years from now.
Revealing that the dark rooms with a big sort of foreshadowing of the lighter areas that happened later.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, OK.
Nominal storytelling is what we call it.
Amazing.
Well, if you're Welsh, that means you're 12 percent.
12 percent of your ancestry is sheep.
I'm pretty sure it's more than 12, but I thought he was going to say you're 12 percent gay.
I don't know.
Again, I think it'd be more than that.
Still, Anthony is a pretty cool guy.
I met him on that massive mingle dot com.
We're getting pizza later.
Please don't make a good deal longer than 15 minutes.
My higher brain function will shatter in protest.
I'm hoping to make it Ted, but we'll have to.
You realize if you made like a two hour good deal, you might.
I would be responsible for the deaths of people.
If that baby updates, still no baby, but I found an outlet.
Yay.
What are you going to do with that?
Charge the phone.
The baby.
Charge the baby.
Yeah, it just comes with an outlet in its back.
You got to charge it.
Read a response theory equals my head cannon is real.
Oh, yes.
If that baby update, baby is coming.
Dad, there's a character out going on here, a story arc of some kind.
If the boot crosses to the other horse.
What is that a reference?
If the boot crosses to the other horse.
Chicken dies when it reaches the other side of the road.
And it meets dawn.
I always feel like I'm I actually just empty headed when I get things I don't understand.
I feel like there's a reference there that I know of when I can't think of it.
Maybe I'm still going.
Requiem for a dawn.
The incredible dawn on WIC.
Watch dawns.
On was my car.
Or the Dawn World Temple of Dawn.
The dawn to redemption.
Don hard with a vengeance.
Sledder done.
Sledder.
Live freer.
Bros money.
It's green.
Hey, more like here's some more.
Add it to the 50 euros from earlier.
Makes it easier to divide by three.
All right.
He's donated.
So it's 50 euros each now.
Okay, I will make sure raggers and wall of get the money.
I now remember why I unsubbed from what culture.
This won't make you as rich as it.
This won't make you as rich as you think it do.
Hey, well, I just saw that movie bright burn.
I was convinced Brandon was the villain, but then he crushed a girl's hand for being mean to him.
That makes him the hero like Captain Marvel.
Yeah, yeah.
If anybody says anything to you that could be interpreted as threatening in any way,
shape, or form, kill them.
I think that's someone said.
Oh, it works.
Sorry.
That's what I teach my kids.
Yeah.
Work out so far.
This E fat baby has to be named Don.
Name your kid Don.
Oh, yeah.
Even if it's a girl, girls can be named Don.
I think you read this one out.
Well, but it really, it really do be like that tone of how.
Wake the F up.
We have King landings to burn.
He's landed.
This what culture guy made a YouTube channel to prove to their English teachers.
We're wrong in giving him an F, but he proved them right.
Oh, that's just your opinion.
Language is subjective.
Shut up.
Shut up and go read the goddamn books.
Dr.
Retardo.
That idiot is a goddamn tool.
Don't know who they're referring to.
I'm going to assume it was the what culture man.
Mola, we're getting really upset.
Just type T and the brood will be all over this massive like wolf on a pizza or Quinton on stupid.
If every one Game of Thrones viewer just left their room, the numbers would be the same.
Sorry if we hold very lucrative jobs to basic standards of competence.
What we're entitled to is irrelevant.
What we got was crap.
So sick of this.
Live Don repeat.
You know, the view count like the ratings thing is the views
counted from like active viewers at any one time and then they collect the peak number.
I'm assuming that's what I've always wondered ever since YouTube being, you know,
they kind of click.
That's anything over a few seconds.
So is it how many people watch the entire episode or half?
Yeah, that's a good point.
How much engagement, how much click through was there?
And then did they run a poll at the end of the episode saying,
you know, thumbs up or down.
I'd like to see those results personally.
I'd love to.
I'm sure people watch you and watch me who don't like us.
We had hate watchers as they're known and self admitted as well.
I believe Eric said he hate watched.
Hate watched his podcast.
I was on and I thought that was really weird.
Like would you refer to it that way yourself?
You know, it's like a closet, Canadian milk.
Sorry, it sucks.
But that's what good storytelling do.
Oh yeah, you read that one as well.
In classic D&D fashion, they cut away from the dialogue with Greywyn
when all the Lannisters called him the n-word and cut back when he threw the spear.
Ah, makes sense now.
More context.
Great video, what culture?
I wish you good fortune in the wars to come.
That could be looked at as threatening, so I'm gonna have to ban you.
Um, what did it?
What was the quote he actually said in there?
You're not as smart as you think you do or not as clever as you think you do.
Let me have a look.
What did I write down?
A lifetime of whoring and drinking and quipping
doesn't actually make you as smart as you think you do.
I just love that he says not as smart as you think you do.
Like, is that not the most ironic thing you could possibly say?
I mean, when you make statements about, like, intelligence or language,
or just, like, even grammar Nazi sort of stuff,
it's like you better make sure you got your grammar correct at that point.
I mean, that's as smart as you think you do.
Oh boy.
Um, a molar and wolf.
Last week I sat down with OG styles battlefront two
and listened to your conversation on civil war.
And with that one TLJ weirdo, it was hilarious and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Thanks for existing.
No problem.
It's kind of funny how we move on in time and we keep,
like, that's almost where it starts in a way.
The whole, like, debating TLJ and meteor generals, the not so great debate.
Such a disaster.
Because that was before Efap, wasn't it?
Yeah, predates the fappening.
Check it out, Gary.
It's a nightmare in wolf debate.
A guy who loves TLJ.
He started crying several times.
Is that on the channel?
Can I find that somewhere?
I will send you the link.
There you go.
It's on my channel.
That would be great viewing.
I might actually give it a list.
It's been a long time since I listened to that.
Yeah, here it is.
Hello, Gary.
This is your conscience from James Moore.
Apparently he's your conscience.
Oh, shit.
You're there.
You are.
I've been looking for you.
Yeah, that's the video.
If you have a free, how long is it?
Two hours.
Exactly.
There you go.
Oh, memories.
Anyway, just finished listening to dog bite stream.
Monday.
Matt sides with Vox.
Can you guys duplicate your content to a certain other platform?
Whose name?
I apparently cannot type here.
Adele.
His H speech.
Matt side with Vox.
Is that a joke?
It's got to be a joke.
Oh, do you not know about that?
Really?
I feel bad now.
Yeah, he defended quite a decent.
Just go watch his video on the subject or watch me rags free.
Sorry.
Must be on Jarbo.
Price.
Really?
What is he trying to do?
That's weird.
Okay.
Now, maybe it's not.
Interesting, gentlemen.
Yeah.
I mean, as long as the videos are still up on YouTube, I've got all of mine backed up
locally.
So if ever I was booted off, I would just find a platform immediately and get them all
duplicated or whatever.
But unless you mean like audio only or whatever, but yeah, just I think rags might look at
his bit shoot is the one everyone recommends, right?
It's like a duplicate thing that can move all your videos over.
Depending on how things go might have to look into it.
Thanks for making me feel a lot better about unsubscribing for what culture a long time ago.
No problem.
Did he say Mad Queen Father?
I don't know.
If you look through everything he said, he talks like a weird man.
You're saying lots of weird things.
I mean, the one that we found was clearly the best, but
you know, I think there's probably more in there that would easily tear out a bone.
Laugh at a ball.
General Grievous is the best Star Wars character.
Why?
General Grievous, really?
Why General Grievous?
Not Obi-Wan.
Not Luke.
Not Vader.
Not Han Solo.
Grievous.
The guy with no character arc.
I guess.
Or personality.
Really only cool because he looks cool.
But that is cool.
Would you ever write your episode 789?
Probably not.
If I was going to put loads of effort into writing something like that, I would probably
rather make my own story at that point.
But you'll find loads of options for that online, I imagine.
Lots of fan fictions and fan content that's going to obliterate anything.
Ryan Johnson has written.
No offense, Ryan.
All offense meant, Ryan.
If you ever get invited to a British panel show because of eFap, would you do it?
Probably.
I don't know why the hell I'd be invited thanks to eFap.
I don't know how that would make sense.
But a British panel show is really big in the UK.
We can only hope.
Hey, dude.
Can you even imagine if we were like offered an actual show?
The three of us had a table and we just watched any videos and talked about memes.
A lot of people would watch that.
The producer's like, why is this successful?
It's like, I don't know.
And then we sell out at one point and like one of the host guests replaced and saw covering
videos that are like good and we're saying they're bad.
And everyone's just like, oh man, season eight of eFap.
That's where it went downhill.
Change the writers, you know, I hear this is the first episode of season four, isn't it?
Yes, actually.
And I changed my icon just because we transferred seasons.
It's like TV shows where a character changes the hairstyle and you're like, what the fuck?
I changed my icon like six times a stream.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Here's some money.
Also, when is that terrible Doom movie coming out?
I think we checked and I think it's already out.
Yeah.
And we will do it for eFap movies.
But I've got a long backlog to edit for eFap movies right now and Mini.
I forgot that it was even coming out until I saw the
Fringey's podcast with rags like yesterday.
And they're like, oh, it's out.
And I was like, oh, okay.
Yeah.
So sort of edit the reaction thing we did for the Sonic trailer.
There exists a recording of me, Fringey and Wolf reacting to the Sonic trailer.
So I haven't edited it yet and I feel bad for that.
I can't wait until we can release the Fellowship of the Ring watch.
Oh, yeah.
It'll be great.
I can't believe that.
It's insane.
Watch the eFap anime opening.
It's absolute goy.
And we have.
I believe we played it on one of the eFaps.
I'll never be able to know which specific dubbo, but it was definitely done.
While we're at it, has Jay seen the remaining parts of Lord of the Rings already?
I seriously doubt it.
I highly doubt it.
And Wolf is planning his murder.
He's just getting through all the red tape.
Wolf, ever since the last Jedi, not so great debate, I gained a genuine respect
for you two, though aggravating.
You both dealt with your guests with patience and objective dialogue.
Wolf randomly singing songs was cracking me up with that shit.
I remember that when he would think really hard of an argument he could use.
And I would just be like, hello, darkness, my old friend.
It was a fun dream.
Not fun for him, but fun for us.
Oh, God, no.
Has there been interactions with him and anyone else since then?
I don't know.
Oh, man.
Thanks so much for the work all of you produce.
No problemo.
Holy crap, I caught you guys live for once.
Found all of you through rags.
I drive for a living and you need to make more eFaps and I'm running out.
I mean, you've got another...
How far are we again?
We're six hours.
There you go.
At least one drive, hopefully.
Do long commutes.
The baby is actually here now.
Yay.
All right.
We just need Bluejay to confirm the baby's name is the Dawn.
Not Dawn.
The Dawn.
The Dawn.
The first name has to be the middle name.
It has to be Dawn.
Name Dawn.
Yeah.
The Dawn.
Watch the eFap anime opening.
Oh, we have.
Name the new baby Tonal, please.
Yeah, we'll accept Tonal too.
Dawn, Tonal.
What should the last name be?
The seventh?
I don't know.
Dawn, Tonal.
His last name will be the seventh.
The pineapple is petrified because the leaves would become sharp spikes.
More painful that way.
I can't go easy on you guys with these questions.
Christ.
I mean, it's there.
Thoughtful.
Very thoughtful.
I mean, thank you for clarifying why the pineapple was petrified, but.
I would pay money to say that to me again.
Say my master's are on the great bids.
The welcome.
I think he actually did say that.
Oh, he said all the lines from that scene.
Yep.
Hey, Mo, are you going to cover the memes?
That'll be next episode.
We've got loads, though.
There are some that are specific to this episode.
That I'll do once we get through the super chats.
It's like nine pictures, seven pictures.
Oh, my God.
That's so fast.
Hey, Mo, are you?
Oh, wait.
Yeah.
Welcome to EFAP season four, episode one.
Take my shackles.
You awesome, beautiful massives.
Why thank you.
Gary, as a comics guy, what do you think of Justice League, the animated series?
I think it might be the best translation of DC characters to the screen.
I agree.
Totally agreed.
I love Justice League, the animated series, and Justice League Unlimited.
I think it was very good.
Hashtag Cyclops was right.
What did Cyclops say that was proven right?
If you touch her, I'll fucking kill you.
He doesn't kill him.
But then again, I guess Magneto never touched her, so.
Implication is implied.
Beautiful phrase.
Makes sense to me.
Nerdrotic, I'm a little behind.
Isn't Cyclops dead and a Nazi?
And wasn't his past self travel to the future
to be on the champions, to be the champion?
Currently right now in the.
Yes, I think so.
I haven't read a Marvel comic in three years.
You clarify who knows.
He's dead and a Nazi.
Ed and.
Yeah.
Last time I checked on poor Cyclops when I was reading, this was right around.
I have my store.
He was dating Emma Frost.
It's been a long time since I read.
Once I sold my comic shop, I kind of.
Put away the comics for a little while, and I only read what I like now.
And I was never I'm not a fan of what.
Marvel had done to the X-Men ever since Disney took over,
because they kind of they kind of put them in the back burner.
And Marvel Comics suck right now.
They're terrible.
It's God awful.
Unreadable.
Yeah, it sucks reading them all my life.
And now I read mostly DC.
Listen, I know it's your first time, but dude,
you literally took forever to figure out the magnet.
The highlight of the stream was Tonal Chlong.
That was from James Moore Wolf.
What?
Basically saying you took ages to figure out the magnet puzzle
and the highlight of the stream was Tonal Chlong.
The magnet puzzle.
Oh, yeah, I know what he's talking.
You guys should have seen my attempt at trying to do the maze
ball puzzle yesterday as talking to Mahler,
and I was having a very hard time where I have to like tilt
the switch from side to side and forward and backward
to get the stupid ball to go through the stupid maze.
And then I have to make the maze go up really sharply.
So the stupid ball goes out of the stupid maze
under the stupid bridge into the stupid hole.
And then I have to tilt the maze in a certain stupid way
so I can fly down to the stupid maze to get the stupid chest
that has the stupid gear.
And I was having a lot of stupid fun.
Yeah, that was a thing that happened.
Now I'm waiting to see my grandparents' favorite show
being Butchered.
Send Captain Mahl sent Captain Me Too back to the 60s
and film her fight the ultimate toxic white male,
the Thons from Happy Days.
Is that a thing that's happening?
Are they going to redo Happy Days?
Or is that just a joke?
I don't know.
I never know these things.
It had to be just a joke, but you never know these days.
You never know.
That's the thing.
Oh, if you're supposed to be good.
You always have to like...
I am.
Don't worry.
I am.
I thought the Buffy reboot when they announced
it was a joke in my chat.
And I clowned the guy who told me about it.
I'm like, shut up.
Get out of here.
And they're like, no, it really happened.
I'm like, okay.
Sci-fi book recommendation,
Tomorrow's Kin by Nancy Kress.
I'm about halfway through the first book
and it's pretty neat.
You guys recognize the name?
Because like I said, I'm not big on books.
I do not know.
I've heard of it.
Oh, fair enough.
Or in the Blind Forest is just Fear and Gully Dark Souls.
I can't really disagree.
That doesn't sound like a bad thing.
How far down the guest queue is Luis?
I think he's pretty high up as far as I know.
It's more a matter of making sure
everyone's free at the same time as well.
They're all going to get here eventually.
Like I said, it took us a billion years
to get like ER and Actman.
Now everyone wants them again already.
It's a hard life.
And Shadow Varsity.
We'll get the mold back.
We'll have a billion episodes.
It'll be great.
Oh, god.
After Super Chats, I got to show you both something.
Okay.
That's all it is.
What was the last book you were hyped for, Wolf?
It was this book called...
Fuck, I still have it on my shelf.
Spirit of the Wolves.
It was the third book in a trilogy that I really liked.
I skipped two days of school.
The first day to read the first two books,
they're pretty short.
And then the third day to read the final book.
And man, was it a horrible mess.
And I never read the series again,
which sucks because I read the first two books
like six times each.
And I've only touched the third book once.
I mean, the whole third book was awful,
but the ending was so insulting that I was like,
well, I'm never touching that again.
It was very sad.
That was the first Mass Effect 3 experience I ever had.
There was so many more to come.
Yeah.
And then the follow-up Super Chat behind that one
was I bet it was Twilight.
Wolf is not a huge fan of Twilight.
Are you going to do a Rage or a Praise for Endgame?
There is...
The stream with ER will basically go over all of that,
but the short answer is that I'm probably going to do
some kind of extended breakdown
because I don't feel a Rage or a Praise
or a Mare really represents the sort of take down
I would have of that film.
It's complicated, so it would probably be more
of a neutral breakdown instead.
But yeah, I don't know when as well.
Too many projects.
Mine's going to blow up.
I'll give it a shot when I have time.
Medea versus Tonald, Down of Thrust Tis.
This was to be Justice.
That's a weird one, but I think it works.
Thrust is...
Instead of the circle of life is a circle of death.
If only the death would take for our sake.
I'm sure that's in reference to someone who needed to die.
I'm not 100% sure.
Oh, that would have...
Only.
Who was the person we said should die recently?
I can't remember.
There's a few of them.
I think it was what culture guy?
Ah, what culture?
Adam Cleary.
I do like the long dark tea time of the dawn.
Okay, a little hitchhiker or Douglas Adam's love there.
That's actually...
I can't believe that these people are still going on with the
Castlevania, Dawn of Souls, Man Don Go, Marvel Wars 6, Return of the Dawn.
Man, they're going to go through literally everything in the...
It's a good representation of how the collective chat have probably seen every
franchise and IP that ever existed, and they're just running it through.
Every time we get a new meme.
Medea was placed through every single thing that ever existed, as far as I can tell.
The Dawn of a Nation.
That's the literal super chat.
At least Destiny 2 is coming to Steam.
Hey.
I told bringy about that the other day.
And he...
Yay, I can't wait to not...
We're right for Dawn Guy.
Isn't it...
Wait, it's free to play, is it?
No.
You sure?
It's 30 bucks.
Destiny, because Alex mentioned...
Or is it going free to play?
I remember hearing something about...
If it is, then they're going to rip a bunch of people off,
because I'm pretty sure it's 30 bucks on Steam.
Let me look it up.
Destiny 2.
Yeah, $35.
Well, maybe Alex was talking about something else.
I mean, I'm not giving track of Destiny.
He was...
They were giving out Destiny on PC for free on Battle.net for like a week or so
while back.
And one of my friends told me about it.
And I was like, I would play it for free and I'd still want a refund.
I'm never touching Destiny again.
Bungie's got to re-earn my trust after the first game.
From Eric Stewart.
Hey, Nudrotik.
Why is your name Nudrotik?
The channel name is...
Oh, this is a long story.
I'll try to keep it really short.
I was in my comic store.
I was talking to a friend of mine, Nudrotik.
And I thought he said, Nudrotik is, I don't know, a pun or something.
I'm like, oh, I'm going to see if...
And I immediately went and checked to see if the domain name had been taken and it hadn't.
So I right there and then I took the domain name and I don't really know why.
I'm like, oh, I'll use it for a podcast or something for my comic store
for a couple of years.
And then it turned in.
It just morphed into this.
So yeah, maybe it was Destiny, man.
I don't know.
But yeah, it was just, I misheard somebody.
Thought it sounded cool at the time.
It probably doesn't sound very cool now, but in 2012, it sounded cool.
And yeah, that's the origins of it.
Nerd that sells erotica, duh.
Oh, you really like it.
And it has a double meeting.
And you're a nerd.
Well, now it has a triple meeting.
There you go, a triple meeting.
Tell that story and be like, it was all those thoughts at the same time.
Created a beautiful masterpiece.
What do you guys think about it?
Oh, go ahead.
It created something my wife can't believe is real.
It's pretty hard explaining to your in-laws because I'm like, yeah, I'm old.
So I've got kids, I've got in-laws and sisters and they're all old.
I'm like, yeah, you know, I quit my job at Tesla, like a really good job to do this.
And it's kind of hard to explain to people sometimes.
I know that film at my sister's wedding.
You distant family members were like, uh, what are you doing now?
Talk about films.
And I was like, yeah, they were like, how does that, how does that make money?
Just kind of shrug.
You know, at that point, it's too hard to explain.
Imagine trying to explain all the memes to them.
It's impossible.
What do you guys think about the CNET hit piece against gaming YouTubers,
including the beloved Tonal Loke?
Tonal Loke.
And yeah, yeah, no, it's just another moment of the beard.
Like you guys suck.
Now tell me how to be as popular as you guys.
He'll get there one day once, move over, evolve and stuff.
But yeah, it was, it was weird.
I didn't actually read the article, the piece itself.
I just saw the screenshots and I was like, huh.
How about that?
I just saw the total video lashing out of irrelevancy.
That's what it is.
Wait, what, what Mueller just said.
Alice in donderland.
Hey, Molly, you've been killing babies on the daily.
Anyone been killing babies on the daily?
What is this?
What?
It's an editing term.
All right.
There's an editing term called babies.
Yes, that is a professional editors term.
Why is it called that?
In one, when you're in the editing room, a director will use it too.
There's parts of your film you just have to cut out,
but you love every piece of your film.
So it's killing babies.
Okay.
I just imagining like some dude and glasses and like a button up shirt,
like looking at a script, throwing it on a table and he was like, kill that baby.
Well, God in Hollywood, they might actually mean it.
Jay will reveal.
He never really cared about any of you and then returned to the right opinion
to be with him till the end.
Why would Jay go to the right opinion?
I don't think there's any connection there.
Is that the huge betrayal that he was the right opinion spy this whole time?
Cue Anakin's betrayal from the revenge of the set soundtrack.
Game Coop construal is the word of wolf 2019.
The pizzas turned him.
Okay.
I replaced pizza with brain cells.
The dawn, the actor for the dawn tweeted his desire for a rematch.
That's the thing that happened.
Apparently that obviously it's a joke.
He said coming 2078, the dawn searches for his motorcycle across time and space,
wreaking his vengeance upon Carol, probably his ghost.
Probably.
I accept.
The don will wipe the floor with his flat ass.
That's that you can't find.
That's me.
Probably sexist.
Unless you say that the dawn has a flat ass, but I mean, that's, you know, like religious.
Game cube controllers are objectively the best way.
That is true.
You guys are great.
Owen Wolf is too, I guess.
That's a lie.
The special man.
Um, I'm I'll hopefully have a little something Goliath related for you guys next week.
Oh, it's from me in repository.
Oh boy.
It's really living up to his name.
Oh, I have must have watched our reaction to the Lord of the, uh, the Lord of the Rings one,
like 20 times, like the whole J has not seen the rings.
They can't.
It's great.
Hello, just finished watching all of your Dark Souls 2 content series and critique.
Very good.
What are your thoughts on Bloodborne and Sekiro?
I love Bloodborne, uh, but it's very flawed.
I wish it were.
There was some tweaks made and then I haven't played Sekiro yet.
One of those games where I was like, I'm going to play it as a reward for finishing the video
that I was currently working on.
And then I finished it and I was like, no, I'm going to wait until I do the next one.
And then the next one.
And now I'm like, fuck, I might never play that game.
I'll get to it at some point.
Um, any comments on OJ Twitter?
Okay.
To ask OJ.
OJ Simpson has a Twitter.
Okay.
Follow sin, like a bunch of people.
Murderers.
Yeah, no, he left a video.
Like his first tweet was like, Hey, this is OJ.
I'm just going to let you know.
And then he says at the end of his thing,
he says, I've got a lot of, I got some getting even to do.
Oh God.
Oh my God.
Oh no.
The FBI follows him.
I would imagine.
I hope so.
Oh my God.
Could you even imagine like the kind of person that would unironically
follow OJ Simpson's Twitter world is full of them.
Full of them.
All of them reviewed known out 76.
Hello, I'm mauler and I love being icon.
I'm not going to read that in good conscience.
I love being branded.
That's what I will replace the word with.
Not even joking.
I imitate malls attitude from not so great debate to settle family arguments and it works.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, no one else's, you know, it's not like I'm stoic at every single
argument, but I remember that when I was trying to be as calm as possible and just
ask the guy questions, um, well, found it difficult because the guy was saying things
that were very, um, how would you describe it?
Wolf in one word.
Insufferable.
There you go.
Nudorotic opinion on young justice.
I can't, uh, I can't wait for it to finish.
I don't know if he has a Twitter account anymore.
Gone now.
It was trending.
It's, uh, it's the real OJ 32 at real.
What is his young justice?
Like Justice league, but young or.
Oh, he just doesn't have a checkmark yet.
Did you get it?
I am really disappointed by the fact that he has 732,000 followers.
Good lord.
You don't see it here.
I didn't, uh, yeah.
What is young justice?
And justice is it's, uh, it's like the teen Titan.
So it's a animated DC show with Robin and, uh, and, uh, it's was started at God.
I forgot what it started out on.
It was on regular TV for awhile and now it's on DC streaming.
Uh, it had been away for awhile, but DC streaming brought it back.
It's one of the better animated comic book shows.
It's taken, you know, it's not done all cutesy like the teen Titans.
One is it's, you know, very good storytelling for animated show.
And I love it.
Yeah.
My kid loves it.
So, uh, nerd Roddick Jr.
Watch it all the time.
Uh, Mola, do you run like a Welshman love from a fellow British?
Yeah, that was really good.
The joke in family guy races runs like a Welshman.
I was always like, what does that even mean?
Is that a thing a Welshman run in a particular way?
But yes, uh, love to you too.
Fellow British.
Um, oh yeah.
Last time Wolf said he'd never seen Batman, the animated series.
Gary, please kill him.
Um, no, I just want to, if he hasn't seen, he has time to see it,
you know, let's give him time to see it some day.
Yeah.
Let's know a bunch of people who are following OJ, by the way.
Like there's a bunch of people we know following OJ now.
Well, I mean, the thing is a lot of people probably follow him out of just curiosity.
I think it makes sense.
I just want to leave, I want, it's like, he has a tweet that says,
taken an early look at fantasy football.
Patrick, uh, Mona ham or whatever was my clear number one, blah, blah, blah.
Am I missing anyone?
And I just want to leave comments, uh, other than the two people you murdered.
No, I just want to leave that every time.
Tweet something and that's gotta be happening.
I mean, you know, let's just see.
Uh, let's never forget.
Captain Marvel battered Stan Lee by pushing down his script on the bus.
Stan Lee was elder abused by an illegal immigrant, Rip Stanley.
Never get the justice he deserves.
Now with the will of Dawn, she left the planet.
Uh, since you kind of butchered that name earlier, try pronouncing it Manos Tion.
An-nos-tion?
An-nos-tion?
An-nos-tion?
Manos-tion?
Stan, send it over this way.
I want to see it.
Well, this is okay.
So this is how it's pronounced, apparently.
Manos-tion?
Nos?
Manos-tion?
I don't know.
It sounds funny to me, uh, but yeah, it's fair enough.
That's how it's spelled.
Journey to the center of the dawn.
Who knows what that would only be?
Uh, also you introduced me to many people,
but I knew Ned Roddick before I knew you.
That's what I meant.
Oh yeah, no, that's uh, I just like that all of the worlds collide
and there's fans that are spread all over the place.
It's cool.
YouTube is a both a big world and a small world.
It's own world.
It really is.
Some of the memes on knowledge you think are freaking hilarious.
Uh, we don't have time for that, but go on.
Uh, love you guys' content.
Thanks for being you.
No problem.
Bros Awakens critique part three soon.
It's on the way.
I have not begun editing it yet.
I got Game of Thrones stuff for the way first,
but yes, it's on the way.
It's always on the way, but not soon,
unless soon means potential years.
Even I wouldn't even want to say that.
Like, you know, there's a reasonable amount of time I could expect it to be,
but if I ever say like, it should be around here,
it'll turn out to be 10 years later than that.
I never liked it.
It, it do when it do.
That's the way to say it.
Um, I literally just got out of Godzilla again,
and you masses are still going.
Yes.
We're nearly finished though.
We're coming to the end now.
Just tuned in.
Hope you all did great.
Time travel six hours back in time.
Please watch a status now.
It's short and amazing.
I'm afraid.
I think that, uh, Garyum Wolf probably would like to maybe go back to living life
in a few moments because, um, this has been a wonderful yet long one.
Yes.
The, uh, are the police still following OJ?
What?
Like on Twitter?
Do the police have a Twitter account?
That would be funny.
Wolf, will you release a Kindle version of your book?
Yeah.
Uh, for those of you that didn't see the stream, I'm working, uh, having a guy,
I commissioned a guy to make a better cover.
And then I'm going to get someone to, um, reformat the inside of the book.
Don't know how long it'll take though.
Um, and now you memes.
How to train your Don.
Uh, Don is born.
No, God, no life.
There were some made from, uh, like my dad had made about and see.
You're breathtaking.
Keanu Fett, both of that's a long lost brother.
I love that clip.
Oh yeah.
It's also, it's like a super times.
The head is so big.
These are rush jobs.
Don't, I don't really clear of where this would originate in, but
I don't understand this one either, uh, entirely, but it's definitely.
She long word thrust 2077.
Uh, I think that came from my stream a couple of days ago.
The, this was for me saying the him and they just sounds like a guy called him.
He does look like a Herman.
The mustache really seals it.
He came back from the year 2020 to ask for a cup of sugar.
This one, I think was suitable for this.
Every frame of pizza, reframe of pizza.
I still have some left.
They consumed half mine while I was doing this.
A great one to finish the night off.
My captain Marvel was missing during end game.
Carol, are we seeing you here next month?
Not likely.
Later at the orphanage for children whose parents got Thanos.
She's lighting these orifice on fire at the Don's protecting the.
Yes, I love that.
I'm going to freaking tweet that.
God damn it.
Beautiful.
These are the best.
We leave.
I do got to show you guys.
Are you both on the watch together still?
Oh, uh, do you want it to be live as well?
Yeah.
Uh, give me.
Yes.
I'm still.
Oh, I had.
All or does rock.
Okay.
So this, this shouldn't be longer than like 20 or so seconds, but it, this is a tonaled clip.
And tonaled says a thing that's very funny.
It has come to my attention that certain individuals on the internet
feel inclined to stir up political commentary on behalf of this poster
in the recent trailer for cyberpunk 2077.
It's a transgender woman with a gigantic schlong proudly standing out of tension.
I understand.
I feel, I feel bad for Gary, but hearing total say that is.
You have to slow know that it's, it's enhanced greatly when you slow know that.
Let's slow know that.
Say trans gender woman with a gigantic schlong.
Oh, probably standing at attention.
Does it allow you to put it at 0.25 speed?
Do it.
Let's do all this.
I did it the other day.
It's just incredible.
Schlong proudly standing at.
Oh, you hear that?
It's important.
This was science.
With a gigantic schlong proudly standing at attention.
Thank you.
Um, oh yeah.
Uh, last two super chest.
Thanks wolf.
You like crack for my brain.
And oh my God.
Thank you.
You rock more.
I mean, assuming if you're the guy who did the art with Captain Marvel, it's wonderful.
Thank you for it.
Assuming either way.
Wonderful stuff.
And yeah, we made it to the end.
Thank you very much to Alex for staying as long as he did for wolf being here the whole time.
Wonderful guest and our special guest.
Nerd Rotic.
Would you like to talk about your channel for a moment while I post links to it over and over again?
Sure.
Thanks again for having me on guys.
It was a lot of fun.
I've been looking forward to this.
I, uh, my name is Gary.
I run a channel called Nerd Rotic and I bitch about pop culture, but I occasionally tell you
about stuff I like as well.
I try to be even handed as much as I can, but a lot of stuff is really bad right now.
So I have no control over that.
Especially Game of Thrones.
I just dropped a Game of Thrones video earlier today.
If you have time, check it out.
It's a interview with Miguel Sapoknik and he
insight that's probably unintentional about what happened to Game of Thrones season eight.
If you subscribe, you'll find that I turn up in a couple of his videos here and there
streams and whatever I have you.
And he covers a lot of the stuff that I cover on my channel.
So it's a pretty easy sort of substitute may as well.
I don't see why you wouldn't at least give him a shot guy.
A lot of fun, but got a wonderful take and lots of experience on, on many topics.
And yeah, I'm pretty sure we're probably going to do some more stuff in the future.
There's, there's something brewing with Buffy.
That's something's going to happen there.
Yeah.
Well, both of you guys, uh, have the keys to Nerd Rotic.
You're welcome.
Anytime.
Sweet.
Anytime you want to jump on, you are more than welcome.
Love to have you on.
It would be fun.
We will probably have you back here eventually.
Just, you never know with how long these things will take.
It's a nightmare.
But, um, yes, you'll be permanently welcome to just drop in whenever you like.
I'm assuming we're not a full cast of some kind.
Media sucks right now, but hey, we get to talk about it.
And that's the fun part.
Um, it's, it's a lot of content.
They give us a lot of content.
The, the herminator will be the herminator in the last Jedi later
this year will blow up a lot of channels.
I imagine.
Yeah.
I can't, I can't imagine.
Like, I imagine all of us are going to be covering the herminator.
It's going to be horrible.
It's, and then that leads us right into episode nine as well.
It's yeah, there's plenty left in this year of horrors.
God is kidding.
Yeah.
That, uh, got slownled loke.
And you must play that again for rags when he comes back.
We, we definitely, um, and that, that leaves us at the end of Efap 39.
Uh, if you'd like to find a link to Nuderotics channel,
it's at the top of the description.
And, uh, if you want to see this episode, subscribe to my second channel,
the re-upload will be there.
Uh, and that's, yeah, more stuff is coming.
No promises for what video is coming, but it's coming a hundred percent.
And we'll see you possibly this Sunday for another episode with, uh, the rags returning.
Thank you all for watching.
Thank you all for guesting.
Thank you all for the very wonderful talents you put into these wonderful memes.
Like I said, we'll be showcasing in the next episode.
Thank you for the kind donations and for checking out the show.
We appreciate it.
We will see you next time.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Bye.
