I cannot believe we are finally going to do this discussion, so yeah.
I need to bring on more German guests.
Mel isn't German enough.
He used to be like evil in German fans.
He's too kind.
He's like a video essayist and he's like, he's German, does he sound evil?
And he's like, hello?
He's like, this is pretty evil.
I've cut off your penis.
He's not that evil.
But yeah, I liked it part one and I was hoping they would realize kind of what their strengths
were and what their weaknesses were and then move into a second one that sort of tried
to bolster what they were bringing to the table that was brand new because I wasn't
a huge fan of big oogly boogly jump scares and there's a couple of them in it, part one.
And I was like, I hope they realize that their better stuff is just like, for example, what
you saw in the trailer for Part two, where she's looking at a painting and in the background,
a head just appears from outside like a wall and you're just like, the kind of slow build
up, you know, a horror film that can generate that atmosphere of foreboding is doing a good
job.
Obviously, it's what it's meant to do, but jump scares are cheap and easy, but I thought
chapter two was a charming romantic comedy about a group of friends that reconnect after
years apart and return to their their childhood homes.
Was there did they flash back to the the child orgy?
Was that a part that they didn't sadly?
No, I'm way into the adaptation.
There goes my interest.
Yeah, there goes my.
It's going to be so awkward, like, because it is kind of respected.
It made a lot of money to franchise.
Imagine you were a brand new content creator asked to be like, do a TV vision, let's say.
You're like, oh, better read the book.
And you get to that point, you're like, um, nobody's mentioned this.
None of you guys used it in your adaptation.
What the fuck?
Should we bring out that conversation about being faithful to the source material now?
That's what I thought.
Yeah, I just went there was no there was no space turtle in it either, which I was deeply
disappointed by.
I was surprised they even mentioned the space part.
I was like, I'm sure they want to stay away from the space till because if you say that
to your average movie going audience, they'll be like, um, based it'll cosmic space.
Yeah, there's certain things that made probably a lot of sense to Stephen King when he was
coked out of his fucking mind, um, writing that book.
But yeah, like to translate it into some kind of screen adaptation is tough.
Do you reckon he's like comfortable with the idea that everybody says that about him?
He's just like, yeah, I guess everyone knows I did coach.
All right, fine.
Yeah, I think he's straight up and made it because he when he was directing Maximum
Overdrive, you pretty much had made that he was just coked off his mind most of the
time. Oh, yeah, well, I usually I usually wait to read Super Chairs, but I do want to
address that one from from Southpaw.
He said, did you love the Power Angel of the morning blasted for three seconds out of
nowhere? Also, hi, rags.
Hello. Hi. Hey, hello.
So, yeah, that threw me off completely.
Basically, one of our characters is about to get like vomited on in a disgusting way.
And then they do not consent.
They play like a track.
I think he just said it was Angel of the morning or something.
They play it for what he's right, like two or three seconds.
It plays really loudly.
It cuts in and cuts out.
And it's just like, was that did that get left on the timeline accidentally?
I remember a red letter media was talking about you.
It's one of those it's one of those moments as well.
We think because it just hard cuts to another scene after that.
And it's like, OK, what actually happened after that point?
Yeah, it's really good.
And I was just like, it's like, all right.
I think that scene pretty much sums up the problem with it.
Chapter two is the overreliance on humor and and gags and stuff
where it's just not appropriate at all.
I feel like they didn't know what to do.
They were like, OK, we've got the adults back.
Now what? It's like they need to grab a token each.
It's like, what?
Yeah. And then and then they just it's so cookie cutter.
It's like they go to a place.
The thing they need is in this like little hole somewhere or hard to reach area.
And you're like, OK.
And then they slowly turn around because they heard a noise like,
then someone behind them is like, hey, and he's like, oh, oh, fake out.
OK. Oh, for a second there, I thought it was.
And then boom, it's the actual scary thing.
Like, oh, no.
And they run seconds before it gets them.
He disappears and they're like, oh, oh, oh, and then boom, he's there again.
You're like, oh, no, no, no, I run it again.
I was just like, oh, man, I'm getting bored now.
I think I've watched too much of like the it scares, you know.
Yeah. You know, in the first movie, when he would do things like that,
you just kind of felt like he was fucking with them.
It's like, OK, fair enough.
He's toying with his prey.
But then in chapter two, it's like, well, he's got no reason to do that.
He should be genuinely trying to kill them.
We're the only people in the world who know how to kill him.
They should get it as soon as possible.
It just seems grossly incompetent.
It's like, no, all I can do is like kind of shuffle towards him with my head
shaking from side to side and then they run away.
We do see him kill people, but one of them is a gay guy who fell off a bridge
who has no idea who it even is.
He looked unconscious when it killed him.
And I was like, I guess I guess he just kills anybody.
That's fine. I thought that I don't know, man.
I just thought that the angle in the first film was that he
he butters them up with fear and then eats them.
But he just picks a guy who's unconscious out of a river and eats him.
And I was like, OK, but it sucks to be there.
And then the little girl, the little girl scene I really liked under the bleachers.
I thought that was pretty good, but she didn't matter to the plot whatsoever.
It was just a casual like it's almost like a mini film.
Yeah, I think it's the fact as well that it just cuts out
as soon as he leaps or whereas I think maybe in the first film,
yeah, it might have shown a bit more, perhaps same with the kid in the
the Hall of Mirrors when Bill's trying to save him
and Pennywise just kind of breaks through the glass and grabs him again.
You just you see a bit of blood splattered on the glass and then it's gone.
Then the whole scene, literally, it goes and it's almost like
it was just a vision as well.
But then he's treated as if that character has actually been killed.
So it's again, it's really weird and ambiguous.
And I got to be honest, I don't quite get the rules like
when they constantly yell out, it's not real, it's not real.
It's like but it kind of is, though, because a lot of you get killed
by the things he's using, like you can get stabbed and eaten.
And I don't know, like when you have like
an eyeball rolling around on a table now, like it's not real.
It's like, well, it seems to be that it's real until you say it's not real.
And then it's not real. That seems to be how it works.
Yeah, it's an odd one.
And I thought Henry Bowers could have perhaps had a bit more to do.
Dude, would you just stab somebody in the head region?
Like you have a whole multitude of choices
where exactly he stabbed him.
He stabbed him in the only place that wouldn't have killed him.
I was like, nice.
It reminds me of Sicario.
He did get the best line, though, at that moment,
you know, when Henry's like saying, I'm going to get you and stuff.
And he's just backing away going like, oh, man, change of material.
It's been like 30 years, dude.
So I was really cool.
I really, you know, he slowly moves back and steps into the shower,
just closes it slowly.
I thought that was kind of funny because it's like, what's he doing?
Even Henry Bowers is like, what are you doing?
You'll never find me now.
Ha ha.
Probably one of the more interesting characters.
I liked the cast and I just I don't know.
I feel like they they were like, well, it's it.
So let's just have a series of spooky scenes where you think he's there,
he's not there, then he is there and he chases you.
The amount of giant CGI creatures, man, not a fan.
I find them awkward, especially.
Well, I mean, you know, the final battle where he turns into that kind of half
spider thing, it just goes on forever.
And you know, he's not going to catch any of them and kill them like that.
It would be too anticlimactic.
So it's just eating up time with no real stakes or tension.
I have heard from a couple of people as well that it all makes more sense in the
book. I was just like, yeah, I'm sure it does.
I'm sure it's better in the book, to be honest with you.
There's a reason why people are adapting it.
But yeah, the it was weird.
The the super scared kid, the one who was the scared, the most out of all the
outside of Stanley, I guess, Eddie being,
you know, the the guy who was like afraid of getting infected or ill in any way,
shape or form, constantly saying we shouldn't do this, we shouldn't do that.
Always like fretting and crying.
The moment he overcomes his fear and wids, that's what he gets stabbed.
I was like, oh, yeah, the opposite of what it should do, but OK.
That sort of happens in the book, although I think he gets his arm bitten off
or something because he uses his inhaler as if it's like filled with acid in the
book and kind of injects it straight into the spider's mouth.
And obviously then it clamps down on him and bites his arm off.
So again, similar thing.
He overcomes his fear and then deals it sort of damage.
And then he gets killed in retribution.
So they sort of, you know, they worked it in, I guess.
Yeah, it seems to have disappointed a bunch of people
from what I'm seeing online discussion.
I enjoyed it, but I thought it was meh.
And I think over time, I probably think it was bad.
Yeah, I was I was pretty disappointed.
It's like I think like you, I thought the first one was a much better horror movie
and worked better, whereas this one just felt really predictable and safe.
Yeah, it felt like a small ray of sunshine in the horror industry as it stands,
which constantly gets bogged down in every scene.
Every time there's something new, it's played out immediately.
Hmm. And it's really annoying.
It's like, how do you make horror fresh, though?
And it's like, I don't know, try harder.
Wasn't there an old version of it like the very, very old version?
Yeah, yeah, there's a TV movie, which again, some of that has stuff in it.
Because from what I've learned, the first film is supposed to be like
because they did every other chapter in the book, right, when they're kids
and then they're old and then their kids and then they're old.
Yeah, from what I've heard.
Yeah. So is is the first film like that?
Like, did they actually do both sides or is it like one or two?
It's like a miniseries, I think.
And it was only a two part or so much the same.
The first part kind of focuses on the kids from what I remember
and then it switches to the adults.
The same thing is that it the new movie has the back and forth
with the kids and the adults for some reason.
And I think it's because they had a I say retcon doesn't contradict anything,
but it changes our perception of the first movie.
Like, apparently they had like a sort of underground treehouse thing
that they all hung out in.
It was just like, when is that a thing?
And then it's like, also, they all had an extra spook scene in the original one
that none of us had seen previously.
And it's like, oh, OK.
You could tell that was just unused footage.
You could tell, you know, it's like this is the stuff that's not scary,
but I would use it.
Yeah. And to me, I don't know, it just seemed like
just go through all the different spooky scenes, get to the end credits,
because I don't know, it just didn't seem like I wanted to do anything really
in that film. The thing that I liked and this wasn't in the book
from what I remember was that Bill has a scene with his brother, Georgie,
where we find out that he basically lied about being ill the day that Georgie died
so that he just couldn't be bothered playing with him or something.
So Georgie ended up going out by himself and that's when he got killed by Pennywise.
And I actually thought that was a really good character scene because it's like,
oh, it gives us a different angle on this thing that we've all accepted.
And it puts him in a different light and explains why he feels so guilty
about that whole thing happening, because he could have prevented it
if he'd been more compassionate toward his brother.
But then, yeah, it kind of doesn't really go very far beyond that.
Yeah, I didn't see the movie, so yeah, it doesn't impromptu it to discussion.
But I think I'm not too passionate about it.
So I just like, yeah, there's probably more to say.
I just am not the guy for and I can't say I'd recommend it.
I guess I'd recommend the first one.
And then if you really want to see how it ended up, sequel wise, I go for it, but.
Bit of a bit, you know, but did you.
But did I want, but did you, though?
Yes. All right.
Also, no. Yeah.
Anyway, the first thing I wanted to mention because it's hilarious is
Asbro decided to fuck up the patriarchy their own way.
And they have. Oh, did they?
Is it finally defeated?
I think it's dealt a massive blow.
We can say that in the very least.
So you guys heard of Ms. Monopoly.
I have indeed. I have heard of Ms. Monopoly.
I have absolutely heard of Ms. Monopoly.
So my initial take, I was like, oh, is it just like they've rebranded
the cover of the box, like whatever?
Fine. It's not it's not the eccentric billionaire man with the mustache anymore.
So it's just a, you know, strong, powerful woman.
All right, fine. That's fine with me. I don't really care.
It was like, oh, no, no, no.
They've they've changed some of the rules.
Two ones in specificity, I suppose I would I should mention.
Women start with more money than men again.
Just like in real life.
This is a thing that happens. It exists.
You can buy this has broken.
Yeah, well, you can buy it. Yeah.
This is a real thing that you can go out and buy.
The properties have all been replaced by by something else,
it's like inventions that are being replaced throughout the years.
Yeah. And one of them is chocolate chip cookies.
And people are like, did women invent that?
And it's like, apparently, I don't I don't have no idea.
Yeah, this is a bit tenuous.
You can buy it on Amazon for twenty dollars.
I kind of want to buy it.
It has there are three.
There are three questions
right now. Customer questions.
The first one is, is this a joke?
It's got one of five stars.
Of course, it does.
We got we got two point four out of five stars in total. So.
Oh, yeah, if you can you you buy instead of properties,
you buy inventions that were invented by women.
Do you know you can play as like the dog and the hat
and the shoe and stuff in my place on the hat dog.
You can play as a as a weight.
You're like a dumbbell.
That's one of the things you can play as.
What? Oh, is that invented by women?
I don't know.
With iron is definitely something I associate with women.
Yeah, I was going to say, did they do that?
Because they're like, women could lift up bells, too.
It's like, OK, well, either.
Yeah, it's either it's either they think that women are like known
for their physical strength in their world or maybe
maybe women were
I don't know, invented dumbbells, which is weird.
It doesn't seem like much of an invention.
It's just like a heavy, it's a heavy thing that you can lift.
People say that you fab gaming, this monopoly, like digital vision.
The thing is, all of us are guys.
What's the week? Well, that may.
Yeah. Well, not like in a lot of women will bring it.
Oh, yeah, there you go.
We'll bring Jay Longbone on and Rags will identify as a woman.
So those two should have the advantage and defeat the evil male pussy power.
If there's a digital vision, I will actually look into that.
So basically, women start off with more money
and they make more money whenever they pass go.
Yeah, I guess it works out to 70 percent.
Terry advantage through.
Is there a life explanation for why?
Like, I think the reason they gave was like,
you know, there's an imbalance in real life.
And so this is attempting to if the.
Well, can you can you post the.
Here, let me show you the picture of it in chat here
or for you to display on the stream of what the box is.
So that's the that's the cover. That's the box, right?
And at the bottom, they have the tagline,
which says the first game where women make more than men.
They never stop to think.
Maybe there's a reason we're going to be the first.
And no one's ever done this before, because it's just no one will again.
And no one ever will again.
But I think there's I thought about this a little bit.
I think that Miss Monopoly.
It isn't for little girls. No, no, no.
I don't think that Miss Monopoly is for little girls.
I think that Miss Monopoly is for little boys.
And I will explain why.
I think that because women are strong.
The event called. So you have your if you are a diluted enough
terrible, horrible parent who buys this for your child, right?
And you have both a young daughter and a young son, right?
This is supposed to attempt to illustrate to the young boy child,
the year young son,
about all of the horrible, terrible things that his sister
is going to have to live with.
And it's a way to kind of start them young, get them into the mindset of,
oh, women are oppressed and women are minorities.
Women are blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's not for the little girls because little girls will grow up and be like,
oh, OK, so everything's equal, actually.
No, no, no, this isn't for them because the girls will know it's for the boys
so that they can think their whole life.
Oh, I'm not a woman, so I could never actually know.
But it must be terrible to be a girl.
Is this on the opposite?
The first game where men make more than women.
Oh, I just like the idea that if women win now, it'll be like,
yeah, well, you know, you were given an advantage.
Doesn't really count exactly.
And if men win, whoa.
Yeah, like you had all this help and you're still lost.
We bent the rules in favor of you.
You can't beat us like, oh.
Imagine telling that to your kids like, oh, sorry to me.
But Sally, she just gets more money and she makes more money
because the rule because she's a girl.
And you have to explain that to a child who plays this game.
I'm sorry. This is justice.
Getting used to it.
Things as well, you know, obviously, it's based on this sort of pay gap myth.
You know, but how many times does that have to be debunked
before this sort of filters through?
You know, the only time women are being paid less than men for the same job
and same time in a typically the Western world is the other employers
probably breaking the law.
Well, yeah, you were you were you report them to the appropriate authorities
because that's illegal and it has been illegal for like 50 years.
Yeah, he's an asshole or asshole who is doing it.
But do you not understand, guys, like women should just get
the same amount as men for doing less hours and doing easier jobs.
That's the only way to make it fair.
And it would be fair of a board game if men had to play the game less.
You want to talk about the fear?
Where's where's the female miners?
Where's the female garbage collectors, sewage workers?
No, no, no, no, no, we don't talk about that.
We don't talk about dirty jobs.
Oh, you know, no dirty jobs.
Only only fancy jobs where you get to wear a jacket
and make decisions and make lots of money.
You know, you know, no, no, no, none of the dirty.
The women's CEOs is like, you know, is not a job.
You casually just go, hey, can I be CEO?
Yeah, sure. You say CEO.
Go for it. You don't want to have like a family life, right?
Oh, OK, good.
Oh, dude, I wonder if like the chance cards are like, if you're a woman,
take an extra turn. Oh, you're a woman.
Draw two cards, I guess.
Are there going to be things like, you know, you're suffering
from period pain this week, so you have to take a turn off or something?
OK, I would be super curious
to know what the community chest and chance cards are. Yeah.
So so this is from Jen, boss, boss, winkle, boss, winkle, I don't know.
Senior director of global brand strategy and marketing said
we want to recognize and celebrate that many contributions
women have made to our society and continue to make on a daily basis.
That's that's the purpose of this, I guess.
So I mean, you'd be fine if if you just concentrated on the whole like,
you know, these are all great things that women have invented over the years.
Like I said, yeah, I thought it was going to be when I first saw it.
I was like, oh, it's just a rebrand offshoot monopoly
where it's more focusing on women have done.
OK, I'd like to see the board itself so I could read like what exactly
retractable dog leash.
All right. OK, acupressure tool.
All right. Modern shape where
what shape where I don't know we have.
Oh, boardwalk is chocolate chip cookies.
And Park Place is stem cell isolation.
All right. Yeah.
Is runtkin in there somewhere?
Well, it's weird because some of these are actually really amazing
because you have like the DNA model, right?
Like so it's the idea that like no one thinks that women don't invent things.
I don't know why this is such a huge deal that they have to press.
Like there are actually people who think women haven't invented anything
or done anything.
I think if you lay out like this, it's almost like you're implying
like something like, you know, DNA analysis or something like that.
Like women were involved in that.
But it's like, were they solely responsible for discovering that?
Or was it like a massive team of scientists?
I mean, I'd like to get it off where it was just celebrating human invention.
I know it was.
Ah, I forget the name of the person who.
It was it.
I can't remember.
I wanted to say that.
Well, the point being that if you have a board like this
and it's laid out with all these weird things like retractable dog leash,
a lot of people are going to look at that and be like, OK.
You know, it's not like it like something huge,
especially when you have stuff like DNA model.
Stuff like that.
It seems it does seem like they're stretching a bit to try to fill up the board.
You know, that's weird.
It's kind of condescending.
I'll absolutely call the setting.
I can't imagine many like genuine believers
in equality who are also happen to be women at the same time.
We'll probably find this pretty annoying, actually.
No, the the the ghost space says collect
240 salary as you pass if you're a man, collect 200.
What? Wait, hang on.
What about non-binary? Is that unoffensive?
It is very offensive.
I think we should boycott immediately.
Well, I think they need to be a new version called the monopoly.
Do you want to do women conform?
All when female players play this and they go to jail,
do they have to stay there for a shorter time?
Good question.
Just to reflect reality.
Every time someone enters the jail cell,
it should just have a brown table saying sexual harassment.
They complete that.
Did you sorry to diverge slightly, but I take it, you know,
that there is a socialist version of this one as well
that they released just a few weeks ago.
Oh, did it? And it's like, yeah, it's incredible.
It's like a kind of piss take of it, but it's like
the community chess starts off with like
eighteen hundred dollars in it or whatever,
and there's no way to replenish it.
And you have to pay in money every time you pass go instead of getting any.
So it's like, basically, it's just a sort of endless spiral
downwards into failure, the way the game is laid out.
And it's like, that's just brilliant.
I don't know.
I guess I hope they do well with that.
I'm sure everybody's going to buy it and it'll take off like a storm.
It's not going to be really annoying for families to be like, yeah.
You know what would happen if someone ended up with this,
like because it was a gift or they they needed a cheap game
because they didn't just want to collect a bunch of ballgames.
They'd be like, it's the rules do say women get more money,
but fuck that. Everyone gets the same because that's just stupid.
Yeah, I was about to say that as well.
I'm just going to skip half of it.
You have the pieces here.
You have the hat because it's fine.
I guess you have the dumb, the dumbbell barbell thing.
You have a book with a pin on it.
You have a plane. Women are smart.
Yeah, you have a plane.
You know, watch when having to watch.
That's correct.
And the outside of it, you have a goblet.
Looks like a chalice of some sort.
But I noticed that they're approved.
Yeah. So the women drink.
Would you drive us to drink?
That's correct.
They don't have the thimble, which is in the regular monopoly version.
Do they have the car?
Well, a lot of women really like to stow.
One would think that they'd keep the thimble.
But I guess that's super sexist.
Also, men invented time, not women.
White men invented time.
White cis males invented time, actually.
Yeah. Yeah.
So is time is time racist and sexist?
Yes. It could well be.
It's all down to the dice anyway, right?
Got to make sure they have those extra bits.
I mean, there's a lot of skill monopoly.
I mean, you want to go for that, that back corner there, the oranges and the reds,
man, you want to capitalize on those oranges.
Yeah, because a lot of the the thing with monopoly is people go for the dark blues
and then pile them up with hotels and then nobody lands on them.
And they're like, no.
That's my fortune.
Yeah.
That happened, I guess it would be a little patronizing
if they put a washing machine as a playable character, it would be a little.
It's like a fully fledged kitchen model is one of the pieces.
It's weird they went with this, but OK.
Someone could easily make a parody version of it and do stuff like that
and probably get a lot of sell, like, like, you know, just rename everything.
I'm called Monopoly. Just call it no.
Someone this is weird.
Some feminist type on Twitter said now we just need Mrs.
Miss chess, where the queen lounges about at the back of the board
while the king runs around doing all the hard work for a change, which is odd
because you would think that in an actual chess, the queen is the most powerful,
valuable piece that you have.
But I guess that isn't properly feminist.
She needs to be the weakest, laziest piece for it to be feminist.
Have you seen any sarcasian recently?
Just like to be.
It's actually like there's no fucking rules to this.
Like if things can be both simultaneously sexist and not sexist.
I mean, whether or not any chess is really to do with your king,
it's usually every other piece in relation to the the board.
Like the king itself, she would be right is criticized.
The king lounges about it's like, well, yeah, he's he's powerless, basically.
He can't do shit. Yeah, he is.
He's weak. You have to.
I thought that was super empowering to women, but I guess not.
I guess not.
There's no rules.
It's whatever it needs to be.
I would like to point out that Christopher Doss in chat said,
can we have an incel monopoly?
I'm down for playing incel monopoly.
You get paid more money if you're an incel.
Yeah, go for it.
But if you if you've had the regime, then you don't make as much money.
Um, so everyone's in the watch together. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So do you guys know about nude crew?
Uh, yeah, it's the it's the parody that red letter media does
of Collider and other groups.
Yeah, so I assume they started it because they were making fun of Collider
and several podcasts where basically they get their
all their sponsorship stuff, and that includes all the crate things
that have now died down completely on bankrupt.
Well, I think Luke, yeah, I think Luke creates going out of business
and they owe a shit ton of money to people.
So like it's hilarious watching them, but I can't believe
they've managed to keep it going for this long.
Like, and I actually look forward to a podcast that's a parody.
It's not even like it's just bullshit like it is funny as hell to watch.
Collider slash smoke, smoke, no, whatever.
They got upset about it.
Oh, no. And it's they're upset about people making fun of them.
Totally not mad, guys.
It's the same guy, though, that's the thing.
We've covered this audio before.
It's the point is that every I get the guy's name all the time.
I don't know. Christian Harlow.
I think that's it. Either way, Christian Harlow.
I guess they're aware of it.
They're more than aware of it.
The smart decision would be to either joke along with red letter media
or ignore them, never try and or or self reflect and improve yourself.
God forbid. That'd be great.
Yeah, that'd be crazy.
But I can't do that.
Obviously, that's not a question.
But he was also important to note that apparently he's driving her to drink.
They need to play this play.
I feel I think the look on her face kind of says, oh, she's not impressed
with what he's about to say.
Her necklace is digging into her neck.
Fam. Oh, God, that was that actually really uncomfortable.
Yeah, that actually does look wow.
Either way, let's just enjoy this as well.
Actually, hold up for just a moment.
Let me use the loo real quick because I do.
I drink often. I have a problem myself.
I don't I do have a problem.
It's like in and out all the fucking time with me.
You are you drinking today's critical drink?
I am. Yeah, although I'm classing it up tonight,
I've got a nice bottle of Chardonnay in front of me.
So, yeah, at least tonight.
All right, you've gone for the opposite end of the spectrum.
I like it.
You know, I'm not drinking it from a shoe.
That's the that's the true opposite end of the day.
Yeah, you're not drinking it straight out of the bottle either.
So I pour it.
But what are you drinking on this night
before you go to university in the morning?
I'm drinking tap water.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I'm going crazy tonight, man.
Yeah, who knows what mysteries will unveil
in this wonderful stream tonight without franklages?
How's your how's your happy hour thing going?
Well, sad hour. I forget what you called it.
Oh, the unhappy hour.
Yeah, I'm going to be I'm going to be doing one with Doomcock
probably in the next few days.
Yeah, I just I had to kind of take a break from it
because there was too many videos that I was trying to get out all at the same time.
So now that I've got a slight gap.
Yeah, we'll try and do another one.
But yeah, it's been it's been good.
If I can get all the
technical problems ironed out, I'm sure it'll be fine.
How come you didn't invite that molar guard?
No, I didn't want to impose, man.
You are, of course, welcome to join me anytime.
I would have come on for the premiere podcast and like, hey, what's up?
My phone, they have known.
Currently, Jay is drinking white diamond milk.
Doesn't sound real, but I'm going to is.
No, that's the kind of milk you get from rhinos, like diamond.
But not just be a rhino that's ran through diamonds like
the skull vodka that Dan Aykroyd, he filters it through diamond crystal skull.
Yeah, it makes all the difference.
You can really taste it.
When I heard it was filtered through diamonds, I was like, really?
What does that do?
Does it actually change anything?
It didn't taste any different from regular vodka when I had it.
But yeah, no, I got some of it as well, because I was curious.
And yeah, I would recommend people just buy more vodka for cheaper.
You know, cheap vodka tends to get you drunk quicker than high class vodka,
if you will, anyway, it's just petrol, basically.
Yes, I have to know just kicking in pretty hard.
Oh, yeah, I suppose I should ask what's here the Star Wars question.
Oh, it got introduced after he had got the Star Wars question.
The Star Wars question.
The one question to rule them all.
And if you can't find them.
Yeah, is that is that your actual answer?
I don't know the question.
The question is, who do you think will be the most inconsistent character
in in the new film episode?
Oh, whoever comes back to life.
We're getting several of those, so you have to pick one.
Oh, yeah, I guess it's a Kylo, Alpatine, Lando,
and I guess C-3PO are disqualified, but I will let C-3PO go because
I mean, it's not fair to say the trailer gave it away.
You can choose whatever you want.
I mean, if if they go the direction that they are like kind of
hinting with the trailer, then I'd say Ray.
What would her reasoning be?
Well, because she's been like a goody goody for two movies
and done nothing wrong, and now all of a sudden she turns into a bad guy.
Question mark.
I would assume most people assume that the deal is going to be a vision,
not like for realsies.
Yeah, I think so, too.
But if they do that, then I chose to, sir.
But I don't know.
Like, I guess Kylo turning good would be kind of the same deal,
although he's been back and forth.
He's he's disqualified, though, because he'll be inconsistent.
I don't know. Yeah.
I don't know what other characters are there, Finn Rose?
And I guess Leia's out.
Is she, though?
I don't know how much did they manage to shoot with her?
Oh, I just checked the listings.
Apparently you did already vote on this.
I don't remember it, though.
I guess you don't remember it either.
Your vote was literally just ask me randomly.
Leia. Hmm.
I guess I kind of see my reasoning to that.
Yeah, I was the thing.
What's the thing? I think there's reasoning for literally every one of them.
Yeah.
For the leaks that they've had, I think they're implying
that Leia is going to be doing Rey's training.
Yeah, she's like a partially trained Jedi.
So that seems kind of inconsistent.
Why does she need training?
Yeah. OK, my answer is Leia.
There we go.
All right. Well, yeah, is everyone ready to see this wonderful video?
Yeah, let's do it.
Like I said, context is if you watch those parody podcasts,
imagine being the people they're making fun of and you have no sense of humor.
That's what the point is that every single person in this room
behind that camera leave each other the fuck alone
when they want to have opportunities and opinions on what they want.
And you can think whatever the fuck you want to think.
Leave people alone. And it is not.
It is not. It must be so uncomfortable about Star Wars.
It's not fucking wrong to be passionate about any movie that you like.
Remember when Red Low Media said you're not allowed to be passionate
about movies you like?
Oh, I told him that he wasn't allowed to be passionate.
I can understand how he goes.
Why is cross? Because he just hasn't thought about it at all.
But there's a difference between liking something and shilling for something.
Big difference.
Yeah, it looks like a grown man wearing him.
I was going to say, it looks like a really shit wrestler trying to cut a promo.
Just like pointing at the camera and yelling.
I just want to point out that this is a grown ass man wearing a porg shirt.
Let him love someone.
Got rags totally in line with your character, Mr.
You can't have value if you sell anything merchandise wise.
Don't you always say I'm just pointing.
I'm not I'm not just I'm just describing him.
Oh, yeah, it's just it's clear that what's not being addressed
is the whole hollow coverage where they say the same things over and over again,
where they they raise a thing.
They don't even seem to have reasoning for it.
They just do that.
They forget about that piece of content like very soon after to replace it
with something else.
I don't know. I don't know how he can do this after that stupid breakdown
he had after basically like Star Wars didn't invite me to the birthday party
breakdown he had before. Remember that?
But I love them.
They were like, I'm not going to cover them no more.
But he's like, oh, no, you will.
That's what you get paid for.
You have no choice.
You have to you have to not only cover it, but also be like, oh, this is so great
because that's.
And yeah, from what I've understood, by the way, these used to be like a podcast
that people actually liked that would have like a real perspective on stuff.
But the more deals they made, the more benefits they had, the more sponsors they got.
It just is almost like you call them corporate. And
that's kind of why I think a lot of other podcasts don't suffer this kind of criticism,
because it's just a bunch of guys just having to chat about stuff that I like and don't like.
It's going to be it's going to be tough to announce that you loved episode nine.
But if you if you genuinely think it's good, it's like a good film when it comes out
and you stand by it, you reason it well, I think you will do all right.
I have a feeling like do tell do tell.
But the people who like accused of being like shills, they'll be like,
oh, I just loved the, you know, like the locations.
I thought it had a lot of heart, a lot of heart.
Yeah, a lot of heart in the themes were out, man.
It just felt like OG style watching it.
I felt like I was transported back to a new hope, honestly.
Yeah, it was like I jumped back in time to when I was a child.
And I felt so full of joy.
The laughter brings me back to a better time.
And they're like, what are you talking about?
He's like, wait, what is it called?
He looked at his list.
Star Wars, episode nine.
He's like the last jet.
Someone's shaking their head.
He's like, no, no, Phantom Jedi.
The rise of the last jet, like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
The last the rise of the last Jedi awakens.
And some other guy agrees like, oh, fuck, oh, like going to Comic Con,
go to Celebration.
And you think it is, and you think, oh, well, you're too old to be doing.
What are you doing?
No, you didn't.
OK, who are you talking to?
Well, yeah, I'd love Rijamas to react to this.
The thing is, if you're gambit on this one is just fuck you, fuck you.
You're not making a great argument there.
If anything, it's not a very adult thing to do, is it?
You're bolstering Red Let Me Do.
Yeah, glad we were going to have a point in their next one where they just go,
fuck you, fuck you.
I don't like his co-hosts expression.
I look at her face.
She's like, yeah, I'm here.
I'm here right now.
Do I love the idea that I can barely breathe because of this fucking chain
or in my neck?
Yeah, if you remember, it's actually like somebody take this off, please.
There's a little wire that connects to it.
They zap it whenever she goes out of control.
She's like, I don't like the news.
OK, I like it. It's great.
Yeah, the next dude crew podcast, if they just have rich Evans freak out,
randomly, like, fuck you for saying I can't like it.
Fuck you because you should be able to do whatever the fuck you want
and be passionate about it.
Fuck you for making fun of people, for being passionate about their shit.
Go suck on a toad fart.
Jesus Christ, toad fart.
Talk about, oh, do you reckon that's because they have to be the worst?
Like they can't do insults that are actual insults.
They have to have like playground insults that even kids would be like toad fun.
Well, yeah, but it's weird because he's saying that right after saying fuck you.
Fuck you.
Is it fucking pretty bad?
I suppose I don't know.
What demographic are they aiming for here?
Getting them getting some mixed signals.
Well, I was just thinking, OK, so at that point, then
he's just doesn't insult people because he had full.
You could do whatever he wants and he went with toad fart.
So I guess I'll have to add that. Fuck you.
Do you say you shouldn't make fun of people for being passionate?
Yeah, people should be able to do whatever they want.
Yeah, be passionate about whatever they want. Yeah.
What if it's like child porn?
Yeah, I'm sure you'd be like, man, how do you relate that style?
Or cause you know, undermine in his own argument there,
because he's saying like people should be able to do whatever they want,
including mocking you for for shilling for a movie that you don't care about.
Well, except for that.
Yeah.
If your goal is to try and stymie the flow of parodies,
criticism and just making fun in general of you, do not do this.
You have to toad fart to the chest.
Toad fart?
Toad fart.
I don't fucking love the chest.
The other you notice how everyone else has got their eyes turned down.
They're like, oh, God, he's just fucked us.
I'm curious if he had a talking to you after this stream, they're like, dude,
he's like, well, I swear they're like porn shirt like a child.
Yeah, they're like, it's OK to read,
but you just make it look really dumb. Please don't do this.
That toad fart part again.
Wait, did the other guys go?
Whoa, calm down for being passionate about this shit.
Go suck on a fucking toad fart.
Wow, they like how embarrassing.
Yeah, red light media have to play with that.
Surely. It's so fun.
Hey, is that is he doing this thinking that it's going to make like it
will make it stop like they won't make fun of him anymore?
That now that he said the F word a few times.
Yeah, well, this is the thing.
It screams that he doesn't know how this works.
No, like I said, best thing to do is go along with the joke.
Be like, yeah, they kind of got us.
We've been you know, we need to work on our shit.
Or ignore them. Ignore them is the next sort of next best thing to do.
Mm hmm.
The last thing you want to do is be like, fuck you.
I love you. Fuck you, man.
Do you think this is actually some piece of cunning
four dimensional chest that he's playing here where it's like, well,
they're probably going to respond to this now.
So it just brings more attention to us.
Well, it's not great attention, though.
They're maybe that sad.
They're like, any attention is good attention.
Like if they have fans of their actual show,
who are also fans of red light media and they clash.
Are people going to stop being like, mmm, this is embarrassing.
Now I'm going to go Shmo's fuck with the ship.
Yeah, this doesn't make me say I'm a proud Shmo's nose fan.
No, I mean, I'd wear a red lighter media shirt in public.
Oh, yeah, I wouldn't wear a Shmo's nose shirt in public.
I mean, I wouldn't wear anything.
People call it farts. What the fuck?
It's a fucking shirt.
Red leather media should dress up like in a big frog suit,
jump into the studio and just fart as a response.
Just rich Evans up as a toad.
I'd watch it.
So, yeah, do you do this again?
I think Rags will know, but you guys will be a little less aware.
Do you remember that tonaled video?
We randomly cited Bilbo Baggins.
It's been one of the hardcore memes of Efap, basically,
to cite Bilbo Baggins whenever you're a video essay on movies
because he's a well of knowledge.
Someone did it on ironically,
and like it's just so weird to see it out in the open.
A lot of people sent me this because they were just like blown away.
I think some of you are aware of skill up, right?
Do you think?
Yes, anyone?
Rags, they agree.
Right. You know skill up, right?
Yeah, so like they did.
Yeah, and you're aware of the Bilbo Baggins meme, of course.
Isn't skill up the guy who couldn't beat the Wolfenstein Youngblood boss?
I don't know.
But I want you to enjoy this.
OK, Rags, this is for you.
All right. Oh.
Things here that they get really right, like the RPG progression,
like the branching narrative paths of the quests,
the different ways you can complete those quests based upon your build
and your play style, the meaningful crafting system
and the stunning world design.
All of those things are really excellent.
The issues with this game, though, I think are best summed up by Bilbo.
You thin sort of stretched like butter scraped over too much.
OK. You did it.
All right.
We joke about this like every effect.
And it actually happened.
And it's one to one, the same quote that Total used originally.
So, yeah. All right.
Oh, my God. Skill up's not somebody who watches eFap, of course.
And there's no reason not to to quote Bilbo as well.
He's a well of knowledge. I just thought that was hilarious.
Bilbo Baggins.
You should have been a reviewer, though, as he lost his calling.
Um. Billy is back in the zoo.
But I don't know. It's just.
I'd like to think it's a reference, but it's probably not.
Probably actually thought that like it was a pretty cool thing to throw in.
Anyway, well, the audience is big enough now that this was actually sent to you.
Somebody randomly watched this video and was like, wait a minute.
Bugle, Bob and Gus Bilbo, but bagging to skill.
Bo up in skill, Bo up in.
But, yeah, that brings us to the end of our intro for six minutes.
Not bad. Yeah, that's pretty good.
We've got a good taste through these videos.
Yeah. Yeah.
Which is like two sort of.
Brings us to the main course, which is from a YouTuber known as The Closer Look.
Now, I've seen a couple of his videos, not been impressed by a couple of them.
He has one called like How to Write a Villain.
And he keeps like coming up with rule sets that are really like,
but what about this sort of responses you'd have to it?
And so you get to a point where he reaches like a conclusion where you look at how he got there
and you're just like, that was weird because not all of those things are true.
But I kind of sort of agree with the statement we come to at the end.
And he does a lot of I don't know what you call this.
You could tier clickbait like he's on the tier list.
I just don't know where exactly like he's on the spectrum somewhere.
Like he's got a thumbnail that says why George RR Martin is wrong.
Oh, wrong.
You're right. Like with wrong in capitals. Yeah.
Oh, I would say it's pretty good for your audience.
No, it's fine. How comedy killed The Last Jedi.
I think that's fine, too.
Then you go like Logan, the death of a genre.
How to terrify the audience, how to begin a movie.
That's 15 minutes. How to begin a movie.
It's just the beginning of a film.
Yeah, you just throw the seed.
Yeah, I've enjoyed some of his work as far as I remember,
but a lot of the time I can watch him and be like, I don't know, it doesn't sound right.
And he recently put out a video called Avengers Endgame, how to waste a climax.
Now, before we jump into his video.
Hey, I have criticisms of Avengers Endgame climax.
The there's one I'm thinking in particular is mainly just revolves around a character.
But I was going to say, does anyone want to go first in terms of maybe things
they find to be errors or critical errors of how the the end comes together in Endgame?
The time travel.
I was leaving if we if we leave too much
to like too much stuff to be settled off screen.
I guess if we try and focus on the actual.
So from the moment Thanos starts shooting Avengers HQ
to the moment Tony snaps and thinking about the problems.
Yeah. Well, Captain Marvel showing up.
Yeah, that would that would be my chief example.
Captain Marvel. Yeah, she's surprised.
And nebulous is in where she just decides to.
Hmm. I don't want to teleport when I'm getting beamed up and so on.
Well, again, we ignore this before.
I'm talking strictly about
the battle itself. Yeah, pretty much the battle itself.
How Hawkeye survives.
How they will survive, really?
Yeah, how they all kind of live through it and they're OK after that kind of a bombardment.
The only person who takes some damage, I guess, is Walmachine.
But that's a problem in on itself because he gets a new suit somehow.
Yeah, it's a bit of a weird thing.
They must I'm curious as a deleted scene for that that didn't make it into the DVD or something.
I don't know.
Yeah, there's very little significant death, I think you could probably point out.
Not to say that there has to be.
It's just that when you're dealing with the end of a 10 year run,
you'd expect a film with like seven million characters to have more than.
I mean, in that battle, it's literally just Tony that dies, right?
Think spoilers pretty much.
I think we're a spoiler now.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah.
So there's there's a lot of there's a lot of criticisms one could levy,
and we're going to use his video as a vehicle to discuss that, that very thing and see.
I don't know his conclusions about what's right and what's wrong, and I don't know where from there,
but I've seen a chunk of this.
I do find myself disagree with a lot of it, so it'd be interesting.
Yeah, let's take a look at this.
Load it up is everyone ready?
You're it's just it's weird that everyone's just lined up.
I guess they all got told really quickly, it's like light up.
Very, very set piece, isn't it?
Oh, yeah. The other thing I thought of as well, you know how the biggest portal
that brings in a whole bunch of shit, it's like, man, that is a big portal.
What if you just make a giant portal below Thanos's army and they'll just fall through and like, wow.
Put it over like straight into a star or something like that.
Oh, yeah. You're not just opening up in space.
Have it be a giant hoover just goes all over the battle here.
Indeed, very, very finicky, the nature of these portals.
The pools fuck everything up, to be honest, it's like you could do a lot of it really do.
All right.
The final battle of Avengers Endgame was a tragic waste of potential.
Now, just before you hit that dislike button, let's get one thing straight.
Overall, the end of Avengers Endgame was outstanding.
Iron Man.
Outstanding, but a tragic waste of potential thing.
It's both.
Somehow simultaneously.
I mean, I guess you could be outstanding for a whole bunch of reasons
while wasting potential, because I was genuinely bad.
Maybe I don't think that's where he's going with that.
Reficed, Captain America going back in time.
The pool can see the fight with the big three duped out with Thanos.
All of that was just a fantastic spectacle.
I mean, if you tell me that you didn't have the biggest smile on your face
when Captain America picked up Mjolnir, you're either a liar or just not a human being.
Yeah, but this video essay, it is not talking about that.
Rather, it's about this.
So first we get the portal scene and it is bone chilling.
We have this.
Well, I thought it was kind of contrived, but his delivery, though.
Oh, bone chilling.
I don't think like I've done this before with content creators, right?
And I know it's harsh, but I don't believe this is how he would talk to people in real life.
Oh, no, absolutely not.
It would be like me talking like this.
And it's a bit much.
It reminds me of you have a corn cob up your asshole.
I don't understand.
TV presenters like commentate or something.
I don't know.
Like some weird BBC style.
So it's a very British voice, obviously.
But she is talking kind of slow.
Like a lot of passes between the words.
He is talking like this and it's kind of.
Yeah, well, so that would be a video essay bingo thing, if you will,
just pauses that are put in, we just don't feel like that's where natural
poses would ever be.
Yeah, natural poses.
Great shot of the entire MCU lining up for their very final fight, and it is awesome.
This portal scene left me on the edge of my seat in anticipation for edge of my seat.
Edge of my seat.
And it helped me to feel that chill in my bone, in my bottom, in my bottom, my chilly
bottom could barely handle the seat was about to take place.
I mean, the entire MCU has been building up to this moment.
This is going to be one of the most epic battle scenes ever created.
And after this outstandingly well executed
build up, we see everyone run up at each other and.
I was left profoundly disappointed because we didn't get this nail
biting climax of epic celestial proportions that had every last view and nervous
beyond belief for the fates of the I got to ignore all of that.
I'm waiting for his qualifications
because nothing I could really do if he says like it should be a celestial payoff
with epic proportions like celestial.
Well, what does any of that mean?
Maybe I don't know.
Celestial mean it means like of the like story positioned up in the sky
by describing a movie payoff as celestial, like it's an interesting choice.
So he's saying I'm expected it to be massive.
Like, oh, OK, that's a trigger way to go.
But I kind of want to put that into Goodell.
The celestial didn't get this nail
biting climax of epic celestial portions that had
epic celestial portions.
I like talking like he's like, yeah, this is yeah, this is like an epic scene.
So I've got to make my voice go just as epic.
Someone in the chat said celestial harassment.
What would that be?
The stars, you know what?
Just for him, the next range video I make,
I'm going to have an insult to describe someone as a celestial something.
I'm going to make a note of that.
I'd love to apply it to just really mundane things in life.
It's like, you know, how was breakfast this morning?
It was celestial.
It was celestial.
Celestial.
It was just explodes.
Like, oh, no.
The way these pants fit my chili bottom is celestial.
Every last viewer nervous beyond belief for the fates of these characters that we love.
Instead, we had a five minute scene of these hundred or so characters just
punching and blasting their way through a CGI arm.
Is this a fight?
Has there been a few Marvel movie before?
I'm good. All right.
Yeah, I feel like we can talk about this for a while.
So what's what's the four of you, the four of us, I should say.
How do we feel about the fact that it is
two armies clashing and people punching and shooting and doing the thing?
Is that good or bad?
It's our army thing, I guess.
Boom, boom, things going on on screen.
I mean, it's to be honest with you.
I remember there being a lot of like, ooh, and ah moments like the two ironmen going,
you know, the pepper and man punching down that big worm thing.
I was so sweet.
It's weird that I remember this so clearly.
But as soon as he says Avengers Assemble, Thor goes,
brah, it's just like, yeah.
What else moments?
I loved, you know, everyone's kind of doing their special moves and it's usually,
you know, really epic and cool.
And then you just see Drax stabbing someone.
He's doing the stab.
He's doing the stab from Guardians 2, isn't it?
Yeah, he's got his character.
I love him.
Got the Scarlet Witch picking up Thanos that whole bit.
I love that.
Spider-Man reuniting with Iron Man.
Love that.
I don't think of one of the bigger bits with between all of the punching of which
I'm not against punching.
I don't know. I don't know what to say about that yet.
Like I'm like, I don't know. Punch is cool.
I like seeing superheroes punch baddies.
I'm not really sure what he means, though, because like they all have their
trademark moves and whatnot.
They can't just like jump into a spaceship and go celestial all of a sudden.
Doesn't work.
It was so hard as well.
Just said it was a spectacle lacking substance.
I don't know if I'd say that there's the characters getting reunited during it.
I think they needed to be more.
I think they lacked on anything to do with Hulk.
They missed out on Thor.
They missed out on Drax.
There's a lot of characters to go through and figure out what they should be doing
in this battle and what we can capitalize on in terms of like emotional
journeys, but it doesn't mean that no one did anything particularly poignant.
You know, I think
you could make the argument that there's not much back and forth in terms of what
the battle hinges on, you know, it's just a bunch of people fighting.
And there's no clear sense of who's winning or losing.
I mean, like more of us, there's no large bit of an impasse of a fight
though, right, because it all comes down to the glove.
Pretty much, yeah.
But then what I would describe as an issue, technically speaking, because we follow
the gauntlet throughout the whole thing.
Yeah, the whole thing is the gauntlet.
Whoever gets that gauntlet and snaps wins.
It's almost in a way like we could call...
What's like the deathmatch mode on a lot of games?
Gridditch, something to roll.
They had in Halo, right?
Oh, Grifball.
Yeah, just basically who's got the ball?
Everyone needs the ball.
I guess what my point is, is like it would be good to feel like our heroes are really
up against it just right at that climax when Tony gets the glove.
Finally, I'm sorry, the gauntlet.
Perhaps that they're really in peril because as it stands, they're just
there's just general fighting, whereas it'd be good if perhaps if Thanos's army
was actually the ones who were prevailing and they really needed this gauntlet
to literally save the lives of our characters beyond just the sort of general
mission of getting it and destroying the Infinity Stones.
I don't know if I'm explaining myself very well, but it'd be good to feel if they
were in peril more from direct, you know,
whether or not they succeeded in getting the gauntlet.
Some of them might just get killed in the battle anyway.
Yeah, I actually would agree with the idea
that I think we needed to see a lot more. I don't know about death.
I don't know as far as we need to see what characters die.
But this maybe there's something more struggling.
Yeah. Yeah.
The idea maybe would have been I don't know if this is too cartoony or not.
But let's say telekinesis man got the gauntlet and then he passed it to evil hulk.
Big dude. And then he, you know, and but it's going back and forth.
But the big players like Thanos and Iron Man and stuff, they're both trying
to get their team to get it to them.
It comes across very much as a sport at that point.
Like an actual
I don't know what sport I'm trying to relate this to basketball.
Maybe you try to get it to the guy who can land.
You got to get your just get the ball in the goal.
Basically, that was that was kind of what they were trying to do.
They were trying to get to the man. Jay said Carol should have died.
Yes, I agree.
We were all hoping for that.
Yeah, OK, well, we'll let him carry on how he's going to qualify.
Exactly. For the fates of these characters that we love.
Instead, we had a five minute scene of these hundred or so characters just
punching and blasting their way through a CGI army.
A fight when it's definitely it's definitely weird that there are some
characters who are just in the thick of battle.
Well, we don't like Shuri and stuff like that.
Absolutely. No, like you should not be here.
This is definitely not the place for you to be.
And I need to say massive mantis.
She shouldn't be there.
Yeah, like you.
This is a dangerous place.
Yeah. And there's never a sense of danger
for these weaker characters who could probably get killed quite easily.
Yeah.
I think they they they cut to Winter Soldier and he's just standing there like
and then he's very low power.
A lot of them are low power.
If you consider all the soldiers that come in with Wakanda and stuff.
No.
But it's definitely a spectacle thing.
They're like, look, everyone's here.
And, you know, I think it'll work for a lot of people.
But for people like me in the audience, I was like,
well, maybe you shouldn't be here.
It doesn't really make much sense that we see you at all, actually.
And this mantis goes sit on the bench with the other characters.
Actors just punching and blasting their way through a CGI army.
A fight where at very few points does it actually achieve the strong dread that any
good climax needs.
And if the Russo's were trying to create said dread in this battle,
maybe they didn't completely fail, but they seriously could have done a far
better job because the epic finale to the largest franchise in cinematic history
is essentially the same scene we've all seen before 100 times,
just with instead of a few characters involved, a few hundred.
That's not fair.
It's a fight scene.
Like you could say the Avengers had seen it before.
People have filled each other's like, I think you have to do better than that.
Yeah, it's a lot.
I'm not really sure what he's doing yet.
It's a fight with a lot more people than usual.
So in it before, I don't know, it's a criticism.
I'm still waiting for more details.
Him describing it as like not tragic or epic or blah, blah, blah enough.
I'm just like, yeah, I don't know.
I need more.
We'll have to get to reference.
I'm sure we're nearly there this time.
And OK, I imagine a fair few of you are already making the entirely valid point.
But don't you see this scene doesn't have to be a masterpiece of a battle because it
is a celebration of all that's come before.
The moment is great because of all the groundwork, all the films and character.
I don't know that any would anybody make
the argument that anything doesn't have to be a masterpiece doesn't have to be
great. I wouldn't I would say that.
Why not have everything?
That would just apply to me that it needs to be a great in a different kind of way.
Like it's a celebration of something.
It doesn't mean it doesn't have to be great if what you're looking for is a
celebration of characters that have been established thus far.
I don't know if he's just not worded it
very well and that maybe he's trying to say it doesn't have to.
It doesn't have to function purely as a battle.
You know, it can be just more of a character
journey and a culmination of their arcs in a way.
Maybe he's just phrased it wrongly for us.
That have made this moment possible.
They are the reason this scene is a good one.
Now, that is a very good point and it's a very correct point.
However, that point is exactly the problem because the reason why this scene is good
is because of all the work that's come before it.
And if you strip away all of the context so you are just left with this battle scene
but if the point is that it's all spectacle and not much substance,
then the context wouldn't be relevant, right?
As in, oh, I guess for anyone to watch
because it's just a cool bunch of heroes find a bunch of evils.
I mean, it's a it's a good enough fight scene in its own right.
It's a little it's got its issues.
But the fact that it has a lot of context is what's supposed to give connection
to who we're watching do what thing me, especially if we talk about those scenes
that we mentioned, like all the character moments.
So is his argument here going to be that the scene
should function irrespective of everything that's built up to it and it should just
stand on its own merits without you thinking about any of the character histories?
Oh, I'm excited. Let's see where he goes with it.
I'm getting a little bit confused already.
I don't want to have to retread.
I'm just going to try and see if we get clearer.
And if you strip away all of the context
so you are just left with this battle scene in itself,
this scene doesn't do anything new.
And in terms of battles we've seen before.
So it doesn't do anything new.
Like, uh,
I'd be curious how you define new because, like, for example, Mjolnir being picked up
by someone else, I guess that doesn't matter without any context because you
wouldn't know why that matters, but then, yeah, but
isn't all of it new with no context?
I don't know. I'm curious how that works.
It's odd to kind of I'd need more than that.
In itself, this scene doesn't do anything new.
And in terms of battles we've seen before on our screens,
like the Battle of the Bastards, the Ocala same kind of shit.
So this other thing, who here, Rags, I've shown the scene for Tia's
Watchful Game of Thrones drink, are you up today on Thrones?
Yes. So Battle of the Bastards
was raised to high heaven when it first came out.
And as time has gone on, more and more people have been like, it's not great.
Yeah, insane plot armor for Jon.
And the pylig of the corpses is really strange.
That's yeah, it's like, where did all of you come from?
What? Who put you with these piles?
Yeah.
And as much as I love
Lord of the Rings, I'm starting to be like, OK, wait, why are we bringing this in?
Now what's happening?
This is going to start getting weird because I don't know about you guys,
but I don't go like big fight scenes.
Let's compare them all because it's clearly going to be stuff that works
about them that's all the same and things that don't work.
That's all similar.
I mean, it's like, I don't know.
Battle scenes are really complicated and different.
Yeah, almost like they depend on context.
Yeah, but
getting concerned now.
Battles we've seen before on our screens, like the Battle of the Bastards,
the opening of Saving Private Ryan, like the opening of Saving Private Ryan is
I don't know what that would have to do with comparing to like
Ministerious Battle of the Bastards and the end of Endgame.
I'd be like, holy crap.
Like this is what parts exactly are you comparing to the fact
that there's two factions because, yeah, sure.
At that point, we could just reference fucking any conflict ever pretty much.
Ryan, the battle for Ministerious,
the end of Avengers Endgame doesn't even hold a candle.
I mean, when you look at the siege of Helm's Deep Freak,
I how are you in what way you're going to have to say in what way?
Because there's so many things that go into a battle.
Not to mention, you know.
So the
I'm trying to keep them all in my head,
like each of the battles, to make sure I understand the point he's trying to make.
But like Endgame versus Battle of the Bastards.
I kind of want to pick Endgame as the superior one acidly because.
Battle of the Bastards basically runs, Battle of the Bastards
don't get incredible plot armor for a long time.
He nearly dies like four different times in that whole scene.
Then his team, all of the main characters
in the team don't get killed outside of the giant right at the end.
And up to that point, though, his team are getting like fucking butchered,
like destroyed, and then the reach come in and just save them all,
which is a little bit unsatisfying because it makes no sense
that Sansa wouldn't have told Jon about it.
So not to leave bizarre.
Like, say, for example, Rags, you're going into battle tomorrow.
And I just happen to have an enormous laser that can wipe out the enemy team.
And I'm like, I'm going to give this to you halfway through the battle.
And I'm not going to tell you I have it until the battles.
Well, nearly over.
I think you could apply that that argument, though,
to the Battle of Helms Deep when the writers of Rohan show up.
Well, they're aware of it.
There's not much. Yeah.
Well, they find we're not as the audience.
No, we are. Gandalf said, well, we're unaware.
Well, he says how close it'll be cut.
Yeah, I mean, if anything, I'll be back myself.
He doesn't explain that he's going to come with, you know,
he says he says when, yeah, that's why he goes out to get the writers of Rohan.
He goes out to get them and says on the third day
when the sun rises, look to the east, you know.
But I think the thing is that by the time, you know, we're also focused
on the battle, we're also focused on everything that's happening here
that we almost kind of forget that that was set up.
So when he shows up, we're like, oh, yeah, that's right.
He yeah, this is all set up for him to do.
But Gandalf and Amit do certainly bail them out as well.
But it doesn't mean that Helms Deep doesn't work.
I was going to say as well. Yeah, I made a mistake.
I said the Knights of the Beach instead of the Vale.
My bad.
That got very upset for a second.
OK, OK.
All right.
Ryan, the battle for Ministerith, the end of Avengers Endgame
doesn't even hold a candle.
I mean, when you look at the siege of Helms Deep, for example,
the plot to destroy the one ring, the character arcs, the world building.
OK, wait.
So the ring isn't relevant to Helms Deep.
At all. No, it's about only a very tangential outward way.
Saruman crushing Rohan for Sauron, just Sauron's taken over the world.
The ring doesn't actually I don't even think the ring.
You wouldn't even need to know about the ring.
You could have.
But yeah, it's like the ring got it all kick started.
But you'd be like, yeah, Evil Wizard wants to kill the people
because he wants to make Sauron better and get an allegiance with him
to rule the world. OK.
It's interesting that you said character arcs and you showed Boromir.
Boromir has literally nothing to do with Helms Deep.
Dorian, he was.
His arc, I don't know.
Also, there's no fellowship by the time Helms Deep happens.
I thought we weren't allowed to do the whole context thing.
Like it's supposed to be the battle by itself.
Yeah, is is context allowable or not?
Yeah, because, yeah, you know, being as as beneficial as I can to him,
I thought he was saying that the fight doesn't do anything without context.
Endgame, and that was a criticism.
Now he's saying this fight works because of this context.
Yeah, because we have the context that exists.
The character arcs in Endgame is like the whole thing with obviously Mjolnir,
Mjolnir and Iron Man and Spider-Man meeting up.
Like, hello, character arcs.
I would go as far as saying
Boromir is almost irrelevant to two towers.
Like, it's return of the king that
I'd say he becomes vaguely relevant in relation to Faramir's family issues and
stuff. Oh, wait, an extended version is relevant.
Sorry, that's my bad.
What what names are we mispronouncing here?
That Star Wars girl says Mauler and Rags are pronouncing their names wrong.
What names Boromir, Saruman, Sauron,
Helms Deep.
What what parts here are we are we mispronouncing exactly?
Unleashed as far as I do, I was just going by the build vision Faramir.
Am I right?
Yeah, Faramir, Boromir and Faramir, which ones we could pronounce them wrong.
I'm curious, chat.
Tell me, Saruman,
Farum, Furumir and Shurumir.
What, Faramir or Faramir?
But they say Faramir in the film, Sauron, Sauron.
Well, I mean, I say Sauron.
I think Sauron. Is it Sauron is the correct way?
I don't know.
That's so God, look at that.
Shit, Nicholas.
You guys are just right in the word open right now.
Nicholas Cage.
Apparently.
Nicholas Cage, Sauron,
Frobo, Sauron, Sauron, Sauron.
I was going to say, I don't think we will get an answer anymore.
Anyway, let's let's carry on.
Yeah, he said we'll call them all Carl.
I think it's pretty impossible for will building not to be relevant to Helms
Deep, but I don't know what he's referring to specifically.
He's showing the minds of mortal,
the minds of Moria.
I don't know what that has to do with Helms Deep.
No, no, no.
Or is it Moria or is it Moria?
Moria.
But yeah, this is either him throwing in B roll and he doesn't necessarily care
about it or it's like it's just weird because I don't really know what he's
trying to say. What does Moria have to do with Helms Deep?
And again, I guess he's talking about world built.
He's in world building when he has Moria up.
So I guess he's trying to why would I don't know.
You would think that you'd have like Theoden's or not Theoden.
Who is just in general is relevant.
Who is who's Theoden's son again?
I forget the name.
I forgot the name.
But this the funeral for Theoden's son, the court scene, the stuff like that.
There's a lot of world building.
Basically, I would say everything needs to Helms Deep.
It's all important.
But Moria, less so.
But maybe he's just saying Moria as an example of world building.
Yes, thank you.
Thank you.
There you go.
Yeah, I wouldn't surprise me.
Got a lot of passionate Lord of the Rings fans.
I love Lord of the Rings, but I've not read the books.
So a lot of names to remember a candle.
I mean, when you look at the siege of Helms Deep, for example, the plot to destroy
the one ring, the character arcs, the world building and all of the great
storytelling done before the scene begins, that's only one part of the many reasons
why the siege of Helms Deep is such a legendary battle.
The main reason why is because this whole battle on a craft level,
it's a masterpiece and it does so many things right that the end of Avengers End
Game got wrong.
And this, of course, presents the question,
why did the siege of Helms Deep feel so grand and epic?
I feel like we've circled around getting to the meat several times.
Like, come on, we're nearly there.
Like, just say it.
He's just teasing us with this one.
If he doesn't have these things.
I'm curious if he's trying to say that that Endgame's final battle doesn't have
these things.
He's about to identify what these things are going to be identified soon.
I think that's what we're about to get to.
I've said that before, but I'm sure of it now.
I'm very sure again.
And nail biting while the climax of Endgame, well, just didn't.
How many times has he said X has it, but Endgame doesn't now?
It's like four, four minutes.
I'm waiting to do that.
How do you make an epic fight epic and how do you make it?
OK, not.
There are several things that the battle of Avengers Endgame fails.
Oh, my God.
I'm sure of it.
Yeah, OK.
This probably explains why the video is 33 minutes long.
I was going to say, talk about me being non concise.
I'm like, well, I get to the point immediately.
I'm like the newest video I made, I was like, right intro.
It's dumb that they foreshadow.
Blah, blah, blah. Moving on.
Virus sucks.
You know, like you just saw a virus at this point.
Go on. And the foremost is this.
Making a great fight scene is just like any scene in your story.
It is like telling a story in miniature.
You can't do what a child does with his toys.
You can't just grab all of your characters, throw them into a field together
with no clear rhyme or reason, as they really no clear rhyme or they're trying
to stop each other. Yeah, there's like a plot.
There's a reason why they're here.
There's a reason for them to be there.
It's a whole movie that
you get out, then all of a sudden, one side wins the battle in a single move.
That happens all of a sudden.
That's Lord of the Rings and Battle of the Bastards.
Both of those fights end with one side suddenly winning with a with an ace card.
The whole, but we knew the ace card from
the beginning and part of a large part of the battle was them securing that.
Yeah, yeah, that's true as well.
Literally, the battle is the sign around the fucking one thing.
And the battle is for each side to facilitate them getting the gauntlet.
And you can argue that the sad part is that we know by him
snapping it that he's dead, it's like, but, you know, still win.
So I, I'm curious how he would say this,
what he just referenced, how Lord of the Rings and Battle of the Bastards are like
good examples of clear rhyme or reason as they duke it out.
Then all of a sudden, one side wins the battle in a single move.
In order for an epic battle scene to be at its most engaging, it needs to be
structured like its own story and the more epic the battle,
the more complex that story needs to Christ's sake, the more descriptive words,
man, like get to the brass tacks needs to be a celestial story.
In order for a story to be celestial, it needs to be epic.
But in order for it to be epic, it must be killing.
You know what, it kind of reminds me of your eight profuse video more.
The way the way these guys just circle in nothing.
He's he's overly enunciating everything.
And he's using descriptive words, no references, reference something.
B, when you look at the Siege of Helm's Deep, you can see exactly this in action.
We have the exposition beforehand.
We know who the characters are.
We know why they're fighting and why the attackers are trying to kill them.
All that applies to all that applies to endgame so far.
We have survey the battlefield.
We know what the fort looks like with the ramps.
There is no fort in endgame, so it's not really fair.
Yeah, gates and the overall fences.
We know that the attackers are aware of a weakness in the fort, that being a drainage
gate that they plan to get, not applicable.
But I was about to say as well, Battle of the Bass is just a field.
So obviously it's not about having a fort to imagine being one of those assholes
sitting on the stairs like, guys, we got to do this is this.
We use this to traverse up and down the wall.
You shouldn't don't be sitting here.
And the king is walking past me like, hey, what's up?
It's very casual, sort of.
We have the calm before the storm as the enemy slowly marches forwards.
We have the inciting incident as one of the archers accidentally kills.
These things are like you can have them and not have them.
It's not necessarily better to have someone accidentally lose.
That was an accident as well.
Yeah, I don't know.
It doesn't make it better.
Yeah, I mean, it's fine.
It works.
I can understand why you'd be nervous.
You know, I can say why it works in the context of what's happening.
But does it make it better in a battle period?
Helm's Deep is tense as it builds up, but I don't know.
Endgame is not really the same animal at all as Helm's Deep.
It's much more heroic, not desperate.
Yeah, because again, it is a celebration.
It is like, let's fucking do this, guys.
We're all together now. Civil War happened.
Yeah, we all got broken apart and a lot of us were killed.
But now we're all back.
We're all together.
We're all going to beat the shit out of the biggest bad guy this universe has
faced so far. It's like, hey, I mean, I would if I don't chart comparing
the endgame battle to Helm's Deep just seems like a dumb thing to do from
the beginning because they're completely different in terms of the setups.
I think it might be more appropriate to say that the endgame battle is more
similar to when like Thayden and all the writers show up to save
the Battle of Minas Tirith.
It depends on what you compare.
I guess he's also taken only a small part of the end battle and using it for his
comparison because the there's fighting before this this big, you know,
everyone shows up through the portals.
There's already confrontations going on before that.
That should be part of the story that he's talking about as well.
Yeah. Well, this is the thing.
You saw the setup for this.
He's basically just describing what happens in Helm's Deep.
And he's going to argue that that's a story of itself while endgame doesn't.
I'm assuming he's going to say it doesn't have one.
I can't remember what he says or it's the limited one.
But I'm already willing to argue against that as well.
So I guess we'll have to see where he goes.
Then throughout the fight, we have this rising action as the fight progresses
and the orcs overwhelm the defenders more and more as they reach towards their
breaking point. One of the funnier bits of Helm's Deep when you look at it
critically, it's like it's treated in terms of the filmmaking as a tragedy that
Legolas couldn't put down the guy before he got to the bomb.
But if he had fallen right next to the bomb and then some other orc just picked up
the thing and threw it in, it would like, oh, I mean,
you know, like, basically, there was no way they would stop at that.
It was going to happen regardless.
But they film it as if they were inches away from stopping it from happening.
Legolas should have hit him in the head.
That was that was the answer, you know.
Legolas just not a good shot.
Should have gone for the head.
And I won't labor the point, but the whole siege of Helm's Deep.
Also, for the record, because this always happens, I adore Helm's Deep.
I would only throw criticism at folks fucking to me.
Could have been its own contained short
film because of its brilliantly executed structure.
But honestly, the big one, the main reason why, in my opinion, the siege of Helm's
Deep is such a compelling battle scene and why Endgame is less so is that very
ingredient that I just mentioned, the ingredient of progression.
I see it takes so long to say stuff sometimes.
The ingredient of progression.
Why did he I thought that's where we were going the whole time.
He was describing the story elements of Lord of the Rings because he had set up as
it has a story within itself.
And so he needed to move on then, structurally,
does Endgame tell a story and then analyze that.
But instead, he like came back out of his analysis and he was like, and the reason
that I consider in my opinion, but Helm's Deep was like, dude, dude, you were going.
You were getting there. We were we were on board.
We were on the tracks. It was working out really well.
So we we get I guess.
So the one thing that Endgame doesn't have that Helm's Deep does have
and that he's listed so far is the progression progression.
Well, all right, let him talk a little bit more.
But we're going to have a lot to say on that probably.
And if you ask me, whenever a battle scene fails to be compelling,
it's usually for this exact reason, I mean, throughout the endgame fight,
we see the heroes kill some of Thanos's goons.
Then we see them kill some more of Thanos's goons.
OK, we get to follow the fucking gauntlet along.
I was going to say he's being really uncharitable.
Let me do the same thing with Helm's Deep in the beginning.
We see the archers kill some of Saruman's goons and then we see Aragorn
kill some of his goons, then we see Gimli kill some of it.
It's like, yeah, yeah, we do see all of that.
There's other stuff going on, too.
But come on, you keep showing the gauntlet.
It's clearly all about the gauntlet.
As some people mentioned earlier, capture the flag.
It's like, yeah, it's kind of like that.
And you start with the explosions happened.
All the heroes are recovering and it's Hawkeye picks it up.
And the first challenge is he's assaulted by like a million of those dog things.
He nearly loses it.
That's more desperate.
Yeah, that's that's that sort of sets the tone of it's a he's running away.
He's barely escaping, fleeing for his life, essentially.
Um, yeah, and then and then it gets to he makes it.
He just makes it.
But then Evil Nebula, as we know, takes it and we're like, fuck,
she's got the flag.
And then, uh, pro, I was going to say, evil and pro, evil and good.
Nebula and Gamora take it back and then they pride it back to Hawkeye.
He runs with it until it gets to Black Panther.
And this whole time, they're very close to losing it.
That's the tension. That's the progression.
We're like, oh, oh, oh, oh, no, it's still good.
And then obviously it gets to its height when Thanos has it.
You're like, oh, fuck.
We used to do a snap and everyone's just stopping him in time.
And I just skipped over like all of the the shit that gets there.
And I don't know about you guys,
but I thought there was a decent format when the whole point is that everyone's
coming together because everyone is trying to help everybody get that gauntlet
to where it needs to be.
Everyone helps with a gauntlet in the runway.
Peter and fucking kept Marvel and all that stuff.
Everyone helps around.
And there's a thing.
My issue isn't with that.
My issue is the mechanics of it.
They want to get Captain Marvel into the van time machine.
And it's like, that's not going to solve shit.
Where is she going to go?
How does she get back?
No, she doesn't even know who to give these gems to.
And this is what I mean.
Like I actually agree with his conclusion that the climax has loads of issues,
but I don't know.
I think he's talking about all the wrong things because I was almost
confused as to what was going to happen with Captain Marvel going in the time
machine. I was just like, what's like, doesn't she need a suit?
I guess she's super powerful.
Who needs a suit?
She doesn't need anything.
Yeah, she's God.
She's got it.
And when the van was destroyed, I was like, oh, well, good.
I guess it would have been bad if you'd, you know, all she needed to do
is fly off in space, basically, as long as Thanos doesn't get that
cornlet. But the other problem then is that she could have worn it herself
and survived snapping it more than likely, which is I'll talk about that
because I think it suits the character to be selfish.
Good old Captain Marvel.
She's very much a like what a hero.
Oh, yeah.
What a great hero.
Just ask the dawn.
I can tell you how selfish she is.
And this is the apex homo celestial.
I think that's a suitable name.
Then more, then more, then more.
And what I think is really damning is for the first two and a half minutes
of this battle, nothing actually happens.
He says showing their reunion.
I was going to say, does he does he only count it as something happening
if it's in relation to.
Well, I guess.
You know, what's the threshold for something counting as a thing happening?
Because the interesting thing here is really.
But he's purely classing it as each event.
You know, does it bring one side closer to winning or losing?
That's not fair.
I know exactly.
But I think that's that's the criteria he's using to gauge how effective this
this scene is.
Is that that that reunion with Spider-Man?
I mean, man, my heart was getting getting old.
Oh, yeah, that was the.
I cried like a fucking baby in in-game.
So it's something was definitely happening for me.
But does he say in Helm's Deep, nothing happens until the wall gets blown up?
Like everything else just doesn't that wasn't a thing happening.
Seems really arbitrary.
Two and a half minutes of this battle, nothing actually happens
for a whole lot of whiz and bang and fighting and punching.
A whole lot of nothing actually.
So the defeating of many of Thanos's minions, his ship exploding,
his like his armor getting torn off, his desperation.
Like these are all progression elements of the fight, would you not agree?
Even Iron Man's suit getting damaged.
Yeah, very much so.
Like both sides are getting worn down by by this battle.
I mean, it's just it's just.
Yeah, this is the thing, I think his video was working fine
when he had no references and he was just using flowery language.
Yeah, I really disagree with how you feel.
He comes from it.
The dynamic of the fight in the first two and a half minutes
never shifts to any one side's favor.
I mean, I mean, the the real fight, like we said earlier, is the the
the fight over the gauntlet, right?
And that it goes back and forth a lot like we mentioned earlier.
In the first parts of Helm's Deep,
you don't know which way the which way the battle's going.
Who's ultimately winning?
It's only once they blow up the wall that we're like, oh, like, oh, shit.
And we don't even know if they're they've lost or not.
This is a setback for one side.
Yeah, but we don't we still know how it's going to end.
We don't know.
Like we got to regroup, we got to fall back to the wall.
I think the thing with Helm's Deep is that it's a more obvious
in terms of which side is prevailing, because you see the layers
of defense getting gradually stripped away.
You know, they lose the outer wall.
Then they lose the the battle for the sort of inner courtyard.
And then they have to withdraw into the keep.
And then suddenly the orcs are at the gate of that.
So you see them getting gradually pushed back and pushed back.
But again, well, the bastards, that doesn't apply to that.
Unless you're going to go as far as saying, well,
they were clearly about to lose, but then they didn't.
And it's like, how is that better?
How is it better that we think our entire hero team
is about to get obliterated and for some reason they're not?
And then another team just instantly saves them?
It's like that.
I thought that was someone you were being critical of with the snap.
Like, I don't know.
Why do you have to reference those?
It just confuses his argument.
Yeah, but also,
I just want to pull it back.
Did you see the visual he used for describing
we didn't know which team was winning in the in the two and a half minutes?
Like, just watch it again.
Very confusing visual actually happens
for a whole lot of whiz and bang and fighting and punching.
A whole guy dying.
Actually, any spaceships being blown out.
The dynamic of the fight in the first two and a half minutes
never shifts to any one side's favor.
Like, what was that visual?
They kicked a little rat thing.
Different scene.
Yeah, I'm trying to figure out what.
And again, like you guys know, I'm obsessed with taking a million years
to make my videos to make all visuals relevant.
So I as an editor as well, I'm looking at it like, why did you show me that?
Yeah, so like maybe like soulstone acquisition process
in particular, I I don't know.
Like, you know, winning over a rat.
I mean, as you've referenced in the fact that they kind of have a real back
and forth battle to see who's going to sacrifice themselves and.
But there's a different scene I'd recommend showing
than the one where they kick a rat.
I don't know.
Yeah, bass rat.
Hammock of the fight in the first two and a half minutes
never shifts to any one side's favor.
I mean, the battle doesn't even have a beat to its story
until far into it when they because he's essentially saying that it's better
if we feel as though one side is winning and then another side is winning
rather than we're unclear on exactly who's going to be winning this fight until.
And so this is the thing.
I think it serves the fact that it's about the gauntlet.
It's not about the armies, but whether or not the armies are just there
to facilitate gauntlet acquisition, essentially.
Like if we had no gauntlet, then yeah, we would eventually start seeing
enough bodies drop that there would be indicators as to who's winning this fight.
But we all know that this the gauntlet is going to be snapped
before the armies are going to fall.
So like we don't need to know which army is currently.
It wouldn't even make sense.
Imagine we were shown like Thanos' army were getting whittled away
and there's like five of them left and then he snapped.
We were like, oh, well, I mean, just okay.
Another thing I read in a thread was why did Todie use one of the gauntlet
powers to kill Thanos specifically and maybe survive the thing?
I was like, I guess because he had to wipe out the entire army,
which I realize now is actually an argument against what closer looks
just brought up, like the idea that we need the army to be strong
for Thanos' team in order for Tony sacrifice to make more sense rather than less.
No, maybe in a visual sense.
But the gauntlets, everything, I guess it's still.
Well, I guess if I guess if they decimated
not technically, they didn't not technically decimated.
But if they really if they wore down Thanos' army to the point
where they were going to win, they didn't need the gauntlet.
Maybe, I guess it would have been as compelling to not see
like to see the whole army just turn to dust and float away
is obviously very impressive.
Maybe I think the other aspect is, you know,
the good guy army is composed of all characters that we care about.
So the idea that they could be losing and enough of if enough of them fall,
you know, our characters are going to be in direct danger
because they won't be able to hold their own anymore,
regardless of what's going on with the gauntlet.
You could potentially play on that.
Which it doesn't happen in the movie because it's more of an even fight.
And, you know, the battle is just progressing outside
of what's going on with the gauntlet.
But if you wanted to increase the stakes and make it seem more desperate for us,
then you could have our characters kind of backed into a corner
because they've effectively lost the battle.
And then really, everything depends on the gauntlet.
And then I would be critical of the fact that they would be losing
when they have Captain Marvel on their team.
Like, how is this possible?
Well, exactly.
I think I think the endgame as a film, especially this fight,
it dramatically improves if she's not there.
Take her away. Oh, yeah.
How many problems get solved?
Pides favor.
I mean, the battle doesn't even have a beat to its story
until far into it when they mention, oh, hey, by the way,
we need to get the gauntlet to Ant-Man's van.
You don't think it's a beat to the story that Thanos beats Iron Man Thor and Cap?
Not to mention the whole fact that there was a bombardment process ahead of time.
And then there was what happened with Nebula and Gamora and.
Yeah, see, that's the whole thing that he's missing out in his analysis.
He's he's just pretending that those scenes don't exist, really.
And he's just looking at the actual fights in way too harsh.
And finally, after two and a half minutes of punching,
the characters actually have a goal they need to achieve, which gives.
They already had a goal.
Keep the fucking gauntlet away from Thanos.
That was the goal.
The gauntlet is super powered like the second.
Also, for the record, when you have an army of aliens invade Earth,
the goal should be pretty obvious.
Like, hmm.
We're directionless. Let's go home.
It's like, no, no. Alien army attacking Earth.
You might want to. Yeah, go fight them.
Fight them. Yeah.
The fight at least some basic sense of a story.
This lack of direction serves to make the epic battle feel the opposite of epic.
I mean, Helm's Deep has a fantastic sense of progression.
And how does Jackson create this feeling?
Well, it's simple.
Progression is signified by ground taken.
Now, of course, this isn't the only way to do progression in a fight.
But as the siege of Helm's Deep moves along,
we see the orcs charge the wall.
Yeah, I mean, we've already kind of been over this.
So we're going to agree with this point that.
Yeah, OK.
How progression is signified in Helm's Deep,
but that you don't need that to signify progression.
And the end game has its own signifier of progression.
So they put the letters of crime and they destroy the wall in this crushing blow
to the heroes, which allows the orcs to come pouring into.
Not unlike losing to Thanos with our three main heroes.
But again, as we pointed out, he's not counting that for some reason.
Um, seems unfair, but fine.
The courtyard and push further into the fort.
And this carries on as the enemy pushes further in and breaks down line of defense.
You know, I just realized another reason why he wouldn't have counted it
is because you have the selection of Avengers who make it out of the explosion.
They fight Thanos alone, and it actually comes across as so weird.
Like good guys are winning.
Then they get beaten the shit out of him.
And he has all of his army come in.
You're like, OK, good guys are losing dramatically.
Like Earth is about to get destroyed.
And then the portals happens.
We're like, oh, possible level playing field.
Like is isn't that what he's describing in all of this?
But he's just ignoring that part.
Yeah. Yeah.
Because it's insane to ignore that.
That's like the literal set up to the thing.
Well, that's the thing that he praised earlier.
Yeah. Do you remember Helms Deep?
He was talking about how we understood how all of it worked.
We understood that Saruman wanted both.
And so you can't count all of that and then not count all of it for endgame.
That's not fair.
Really isn't.
I think he's going by this.
He's going by the simplest possible metric of analyzing these two battle scenes
in that I'm going to do it from the point that the two armies start to fight each other.
And I'm not going to do that for Helms Deep though.
Well, yeah, I guess it's really picking and choosing.
Annoying me after line of defense.
Now, endgame doesn't totally fail in this aspect.
I mean, there is that one moment where Captain Marvel
destroys Thanos' ship, and that does create a grand feeling of progression.
It's funny that he picks one of the parts that I hate.
Yeah, it sure does. I hate it so much.
I would call that regression really when she shows up.
Really? Oh, so lame.
Have Thor do it.
And the fact that you have the entire ship's arsenal firing at her
and they don't do anything.
Yeah, he's so overpowered.
You're just invincible.
Let's just you're just invincible and you could do anything.
As the dynamic of the fight shifts, but overall,
we have extremely few examples of this great grand change
to the status quo as one side as a whole gets an edge over the other.
Except for all the ones that do. But yeah, go on.
Yeah, but on this point, one of the main reasons why endgame fails to feel truly epic
is because it spends far too much time focusing on the micro.
Well, other battles show the army's what micro what which micro
specifically Tony really showed a picture item and is not micro.
I know that's what I mean.
Way to confuse the shadow me.
You showed Tony with his family and you said it was micro.
Like you realize the biggest payoff of endgame is Tony's sacrifice
and say goodbye to his family.
That's like the bit that ever like it pales in comparison
to the battle for some people because of the emotional payoff.
Yeah. What do you mean?
You better explain yourself, buddy.
The micro. Well, other battles show the armies as a whole
having successes and failures.
Endgame only shows in. Oh, no.
Having that sounds like it could be argued is better. Yeah.
Yeah, argue.
I have more connection to a person than I do a group.
Yeah, for sure.
That's so interesting.
I could be watching a video essay right now that's saying,
Lord of the Rings failed because it focused on the larger armies
instead of endgame, which focused on the character victories,
the ones that we'd learn to love and grow with.
Yeah, so odd.
Like that actually makes more sense than what he's saying.
Yeah. Failures endgame only shows individuals having successes and failures.
We have Scarlet Witch successfully attack Thanos and do a little damage.
We see the women form and kill a bunch of fat lassos.
Now, yeah, that's actually it's pretty shit.
And this is goons.
And we see Ant-Man kill one of Thanos's lieutenants
by seemingly accidentally standing on him.
Don't think that was an accident.
He doesn't have an accident.
Do we smoosh him?
He looks like a smoosh.
Yeah, he does like the antman kill one of Thanos's lieutenants.
I mean, that's a smoosh right there.
Yeah.
Incidentally standing on him.
And that right there is the problem,
because the kind of little victories we see in the endgame battle,
those work well when you have a small contained action scene
with only a handful of characters, but not so much when you have a battle involving.
But now you're implying that we don't see anything in terms of the major battle going on.
We still do.
Like we said, I thought that was the whole problem was the fact
that we just saw dudes killing goons.
Yeah, so we're seeing the battle progress.
What's the problem with that?
Of course, we're not seeing one side dominate because it's all about the gauntlet.
The idea is that whoever gets the gauntlet wipes out the other army.
Yep.
We can't have an army win.
That'll ruin the whole point of fucking going for the gauntlet.
You can't have both.
This is what I mean.
I feel like he's completely misunderstood what this battle is about.
And he's contradicting himself.
And I don't even disagree with his conclusion in the title.
I'm assuming that's his conclusion because I have criticisms of my own,
but they don't they don't get at all come into what he's talking about.
All armies of thousands of troops fighting one another.
The whole idea of an epic fight scene is to have a grandiose scale and it.
Epic fight scene grandiose scale celestial.
How is that game not epic at the end?
Like I my first question would be to him if he was here as like define
epic for me, because it seems like we're all thrown in around like you guys
probably agree with it.
It's just large in scale.
Oh, yeah, that's typically what it means. Yeah.
An endgame is absolutely that's one of the biggest fights ever.
It has like every superhero across the past 10 years from a universe.
I guess it's huge.
Big deal, definitely.
And the interesting thing is that Ammon Hen is one of my favorite fights
from Lord of the Rings, and it's so much smaller than early small scale.
Yeah, yeah, like it's smaller than the Black Gate Minister than I guess
I'd say it's more one of those deep.
But I guess he's saying if you want an epic fight scene,
it has to be grandiose and scale or something.
Oh, I guess the point.
The equally grand sense of progression to go along with it.
And if you fail to create that feeling of whole army, not saying anything,
visuals making progress in your battle, you will undermine that epic
feeling your battle otherwise could have had.
Well, I don't even agree with this because the Lord of the Rings battles
have loads of character moments and they're often what people say
is like some of their favorite bits like easily.
Borrow me of protecting the two hobbits.
I say that as if I don't know their names.
I'm just saying it in more of a vague way.
Lord of the Rings helps deep with where Gimli jumps to save Aragorn
from getting a bunch of a Rook I come at him.
Gandalf saving Pippin in Ministerious.
The were the banter between Gimli Legolas.
Oh, the banter is amazing.
Yeah, a Theoden getting saved by or Theoden.
I'm going to get picked on for pronunciation, getting saved by a shorter.
Like these are all huge payoff moments.
And I guess he's saying, yes, but we understand the progression of the battle
as well, and I'd be like, yeah, we're doing an endgame as well.
Because it's not the same as Helm's Deep.
It's not about one side getting obliterated, you know, over the course of the fight,
which, by the way, that doesn't even apply to Lord of the Rings
because the Gandalf wipes out the Urokai eventually.
Same for battle the bastards again.
I hate to repeat myself.
I just feel like he's all over the place with this video.
Yeah, not very consistent.
And to mine that epic feeling your battle otherwise could have had.
I mean, here's a good question that strikes at the root of this problem.
What does Thanos's army actually achieve in this scene?
Remove Thanos entirely from the economy.
They lost.
What do they achieve?
What would you same question for battle the bastards, the enemy army?
What do they achieve?
They kill a couple of soldiers on the good guy team.
I mean, arguably, the whole the whole thing about battles is that the losing
army arguably doesn't achieve what they wanted to.
It's not that they didn't achieve anything.
It's that they wanted to.
They tried to, but they were overcome by the other army
trying to accomplish different things.
They were the defeated party.
It's like if you go to a sports ball game like what did the losing team
accomplish nothing they lost the other team won.
But and also celestial victory.
But again, it falls back into the gauntlet.
If the gauntlet wasn't in the equation, then yes, these arguments would be more
valid. Well, but the gauntlets and eliminating the entire army
before they have had time to eliminate each other
completely denies this argument.
The whole thing is you don't have the argument.
You can argue the Sanos's army does have it has a valid objective.
It's to gain possession of the gauntlet and to kill as many people who could
potentially, I dare say that's the goal of the gauntlet is possible the way.
Yeah.
I mean, if we it depends on how minute you want to count accomplishments,
like if the losing army, like, sure, like they killed people,
you know, like that's an accomplishment to kill enemy soldiers and units.
And they blew up the Avengers headquarters and stuff like that.
But I mean, how how big of a scale do you consider an accomplishment exactly
for it to count?
No, he's not because if he proves they didn't kill anybody of significance,
be like, OK, so that follows through into what?
Yeah. And games climax was a waste like, no.
OK, it concludes that there's no progression. No.
OK, but I didn't like it like.
Oh, sorry.
So it's just his forces.
Remember when he used to be tough to kill and she just does it like that?
Oh, he's one of the big. Yeah. Well, yeah.
Remember how there was like a huge fight because he's such a skilled warrior.
And she's like, yeah, I'm just I'm just drawing black female character.
I'll just stab you.
Objectives, do his forces complete in this fight?
And that is exactly it.
His forces never do anything that actually affects these wrong.
You have plenty of them getting in the way of getting the gauntlet away from Thanos.
In fact, they get, you know, Iron Man dies, right?
I think he might be unaware of that bit.
In fact, a lot of people left the theater at that point because I was just Iron Man.
OK. Yeah.
So of the two goals, drinker outlined, right?
Kill people, get gauntlet to Thanos.
There's lots of progression made in that second goal.
In fact, you might even say they achieve that goal because he gets the gauntlet.
You remember the part where you remember the part where Squidward goes,
Sire, blah, blah, blah, blah, that he's just like, where's Nebula?
Because apparently Nebula was supposed to retrieve the gauntlet, which, by the way,
I have a problem with mechanically, but he's not bringing that up.
He's not talking about the actual problems.
He's talking about weird shit like.
So my point is the the film makes it clear what the goals of the enemies are.
And they're getting closer and closer to achieving it.
Yeah, they successively disable a lot of characters who've got the gauntlet,
like Spider-Man and then all the various female characters who have to kind of run
interference for for Captain Marvel.
They succeed in those things.
These are all successes that bring them closer to their objective.
If we're talking about achievements, Gregory brings up in chat.
They punched Captain Marvel so hard, she didn't come back until the funeral.
That's an achievement. I agree.
I want to see the audience for a while.
I like to believe there was an audience in a theater somewhere that cheered when that happened.
I want to see it.
I was. I was glad to watch her get punched with a stone.
I turned to Alex and said, thank God, I'm not going to forget that,
because it was it was a genuine payoff in the film.
I was like, oh, yes, the hero Thanos defeats the villain.
We lost.
You got to talk about that bit closer look.
That's a really satisfying piece of progression.
Um.
Status quo of the battle.
Thanos's army could have been several thousand mannequins standing still in a field.
No, no, because then they would have just used the gauntlet.
No, the heroes would have just used the gauntlet.
They couldn't be mannequins standing in a field.
We required that they actually took action.
They delay heroes.
They get it the way they hurt heroes.
They get the gore. There's lots of things that they do.
You know what? I could just say, oh, the people in Helms Deep could have just been mannequins
because Gandalf just saves them anyway.
Yeah. Yeah. The Erkai could just not even have been there.
No, like the losing the losing team in sports ball is why were they even there?
The team won anyway.
As the Avengers fight them, as if they were real foes.
And the battle fight them as if they're real foes.
Can you? OK.
Uh, all right.
Wouldn't have changed in the slightest for it.
And after a little thought, I realize that the only reason Thanos's army is even on the field
from a narrative perspective, aside, you know, giving the excuse for a big fight,
is to stop the viewers from asking the question.
Wait, so why didn't all the heroes just rush Thanos?
Well, yeah, of course.
But the thing is, his army was in the way.
I was going to say, that's really we can say the same about every battle ever.
Why is it that, you know, the people at Helms Deep will go into Helms Deep to Fettet.
It helps. He's like, well, is it army attacking him?
Why? Just just so there could be a battle.
The only way kind of that's why they still live there.
Yeah. The only way this argument works is if Thanos was known
to be someone who never had an army and it's like, why does he have an army now?
It's like, oh, we need someone to delay the heroes.
It's like, oh, well, but Thanos always did have an army.
We were shown in Infinity War.
It's the Chitauri.
You see all of the Chitauri.
He came out of nowhere.
They've been around since Avengers.
This is not new.
Of course he has an army like this.
What are you doing? What do you mean?
This isn't like something they pulled out of their ass.
This is all very clearly established.
And we've seen this stuff in multiple movies.
And you can't get this mechanical way.
Just we can do this with literally everything.
It's like, why do they have to collect the stones?
Oh, so we can have scenes where they collect the stones.
Like, well, yeah.
I don't know.
Oh, but they're they're only collecting the stones for some narrative reason.
Yes. Well, why do bad guys fight good guys?
It's for entertainment.
That's it, really.
Oh, well, yeah, I don't know.
This is it's weird as a point because Thanos has an army.
Of course they they had.
Of course the heroes want to stop the army.
That's a stupid point.
Asking the question.
Wait, so why didn't all the heroes just rush Thanos
at the exact same moment?
And that because there is an army fighting them poor basis for an epic battle.
No, it's not every last bit of steak in the army.
That's a really poor basis for a fight scene
when you have an army fighting another army.
You OK there?
I mean, he has he has to do this in pieces.
He he over he overloads himself in the fight.
The only true source of dread in this climactic battle
is what Thanos as an individual achieves.
The only true source of dread is the fact that he wants to reduce
the universe to atoms like us.
Really, OK.
Yeah.
But apart from that, there's no stakes whatsoever in this battle.
What the fuck did I just listen to?
I want to hear it again.
Battle every last bit of steak in the fight.
The only true source of dread in this climactic battle
is what Thanos as an individual achieves.
Not his whole army as a collective.
His army are doing his bidding the fuck.
I can't believe the only say the only mistakes
are the fact that the universe is going to be destroyed.
That's insane. That's literally the highest possible stakes.
And like you said, his army is doing his bidding.
So can you say the same thing about Darth Vader and the entire empire?
Well, the easy comparison is Lord of the Rings.
The Uruk-hai, they have no personal interests.
It's all Saruman and Sauron.
Oh, OK. Jesus.
I wanted to see more scenes where Uruk-hai had their own interests,
like knitting and going fishing and stuff.
But getting closer to achieving a very tangible goal.
This is a critical problem with Avengers Endgame.
Because, you know, just because you say it doesn't make it true.
It is. It actually isn't at all.
We had to boil down this battle.
It isn't actually about two armies fighting each other.
This battle is a disguise.
It is.
What? What if there was no army on the good guys side?
The gauntlet would go straight to Thanos.
They'd win. If there was no army on the bad guy side,
the heroes would overwhelm Thanos and they would win.
The armies have purpose, my friend.
They're there for a reason and they've all been set up.
There's a reason for all of them to be there.
This is baffling. Yeah, I'm surprised.
It's a front or even worse than that.
It's a setting.
The same way the opening scene of Pulp Fiction is set in a diner
or the same way that Harry Potter is set in a medieval cast.
I don't even know where he's going with this.
Yeah, I don't even.
Well, I don't I actually don't know what the point of that statement was.
I am so confused right now.
Yes. So the battle is just a setting.
Isn't isn't every scene has a setting setting?
Yeah, isn't the setting the scene?
Isn't the scene the setting?
Isn't aren't scenes and settings almost interchangeable?
You can't have a scene like a setting.
I'm going to have some existential crisis here.
My whole my whole appreciation of movies has just changed.
What's happening?
It's kind of blown my mind.
And what is the setting of this battle for?
A game of hot potato?
Well, well, yeah.
Yeah, because one side has a thing that the other side also wants.
And it just why does he says that derogatorily?
But it's like you can do this with everything.
What is Helms Deep outside of a setting or a slap fight?
Yeah, it's a much more violent slap fight, but you know.
This battle is just the scene of a battle.
The hot potato with the potato being the key to destroying the universe.
Yes, it's a pretty hot potato.
Honestly, it's the the molten potato.
I don't know, man.
Like. Yes, it's a setting.
Everything has to have a setting in order for it to even have population of characters.
Like, I don't even understand what the point is.
Game of hot potato, where Thanos is chasing all the characters
around the battlefield trying to get the gauntlet.
Yes, this battle is not an epic one.
You didn't you doesn't that doesn't follow.
You just you gave a bunch of weird reasons for things
and then you conclude it's not epic.
Hey.
Oh, it has a setting, therefore, it's not epic.
Helms Deep doesn't actually affect whether or not Frodo gets the ring to Mordor.
Therefore, it's not epic.
I can see these arguments are shit, but you just you just make them.
It's can you not have anything coincidental that's epic?
What is the problem with stop using the word epic?
I'd be like, use something else because epic to me is almost like
either it's really obvious whether something's epic because of scale or it's a feeling like all.
In which case, yeah, I think it's a very bold video to make,
by the way, to keep saying and games and games isn't epic
when I think the majority of audiences were blown away by it.
No. Again, not to say it's not epic
or is epic definitively, so I'd have to know exactly what you mean by that.
But to keep saying it like it's just.
Not an epic one.
It is a scale one between a handful of characters fighting over a MacGuffin,
pretending to be something like a guffin.
I mean, I don't have a problem with it being considered a MacGuffin.
Some people mix this up.
MacGuffin is not a bad thing.
Uh, it's it's just an item that like the film revolves around it in some way.
Pulp Fiction has a MacGuffins with one of the ones that created the term.
Like everyone wants the gauntlet in this fight, sure.
But I feel like he's banking on the fact that people consider MacGuffin a negative
as a and so thus it's like a criticism.
Yeah, it is a call of MacGuffin.
So it's bad.
Yeah, I'm OK with it being called a MacGuffin, but I'm I don't know how that's a criticism.
Dude, then it really is.
And no matter how well.
Wait, sorry, what did you say there?
You've been an eye on you, Mr.
You're not an epic one.
It is a small scale one between a handful of characters fighting over a MacGuffin,
pretending to be something larger than it really is.
Pretending to be something larger than it actually is.
Are you insane?
It'll delete the universe.
There's no way for it to be larger.
I have to stress this.
That's the most.
Actually, yeah, I love how it's well where he's saying, like, you know,
it's a small group of characters fighting over this.
It's like dozens and dozens of every one of them have had their own movies,
like people who are really important in this universe.
What are you?
What? So it's not actually important.
I don't.
It is.
I don't know.
Something that has like reality deleting powers is kind of a big deal.
I see this importance myself.
I'm a weird person.
Like, I don't know.
Maybe maybe because I'm in the universe, I'm a little biased.
Yeah, that's probably what it is.
Not seeing this objectively, right?
And no matter how well that game of hot potato is depicted,
it has a critical flaw because it simply is not epic enough.
Oh, my God.
Jesus.
Do you see what I mean?
Stop saying epic.
It's just.
Could we drink a shot every time he says epic?
No, I want to die.
The floor after five minutes.
Epic.
He doesn't even say it right.
It's less jolly epic, larger than it really is.
And no matter how well that game of hot potato is depicted,
it has a critical flaw because it simply is not epic enough.
A premise for the climax of the largest movie franchise.
It's not.
And they're not to fight for the universe.
I think he's gone right off the map with this one.
What do you there's nothing more important to fight for?
It's everything.
There's nothing that doesn't get included into this in terms of stakes.
This is why I keep saying.
How do you how do you go further than this in terms of stakes?
You're going to kill every universe.
That's probably it, right?
You're going to kill all universes.
All right. Yeah, that's even even more.
This isn't good enough for an epic conclusion of 10,
10 years of movies, the fight for the universe.
I mean, it's yeah, it's kind of like saying the last sorry.
Return of the Jedi isn't an epic battle scene at the end
because it's just fighting to destroy one space station.
Yeah, you know, it's it's the helm.
Steve is in there.
I think it's going to be a role hand.
Who cares? We still got Gondor.
Yeah.
This is so like this is the thing.
If they weren't fighting to stop the end of the universe,
I would still argue with them because I like to think that we are
that this the stakes is something that are very complicated
to figure out exactly how much we care about them.
Like, let's say that we're all just fighting over the life of Spider-Man.
Like Thanos had him captured.
That was it.
I'd still be like, this is pretty important.
But even if it's just one life, that's kind of where I'm going with that.
And this is a discussion to be had there.
But this is the universe.
How do you make that comment when it's the universe?
What am I to be epic?
That game of what? So let's do not.
I'm I'm going to make a note.
The universe is pretty celestial, though.
This is true.
I'm super curious what he would have found properly.
Like what what what would have been the appropriate amount of.
We need more epicness, Rags, isn't it?
I thought it was clear.
He was just it was epicness.
We didn't have enough epicness.
I guess we didn't so maybe we didn't have enough.
The next two thirds of his video explaining how it would be more epic.
I'm excited.
Is depicted.
It has a critical flaw because it simply is not epic enough,
a premise for the climax of the largest movie franchise in human history.
If you ask me, this film really would have benefited from the room.
So spending more time learning about creative writing.
I mean, whoa, that is a gold claim.
Yeah, that's a woman from fucking you.
Can you imagine them listings, even like even from all of the top,
like even people like just a really famous writer, for example, just says to them,
you need to learn a little bit more about creative writing.
I can't see them have any other reaction than thanks, man.
What?
Like, who are you?
Yeah, with the closer look saying they need to live is like, wow.
That's such a shots fired moment.
Yeah, I'm going to write that.
Wow. All right.
People who employ the hot potato technique.
Need to learn more about creative writing.
And I'm going to put a comma.
I think they need to make it more epic, less creativity, more epic.
Yeah, by the way, we should do this more often, but he's one of mine.
So sorry about that. He's written.
Silly British voices is my fault.
I take responsibility for this, but you still have Patrick Willems rags.
He's your failure.
No, he's not.
I just I just I do not consent.
Where is the Swedish one?
Who have we covered any Swedish content crazy?
All Swedes are failures.
Yeah, they're not very offended.
Not very very would have benefited from the russo
spending more time learning about creative writing.
I mean, they're great storytellers.
There's no doubt about that.
But the best always have another area they can and should dedicate them.
You should have led with that.
The initial statement was much worse.
They need to learn about creative writing
selves to improve on.
And that goes for you, whether or not you're writing novels or screenplays
or Sonic the Hedgehog fan fiction.
If you dream about one day breaking into the industry
and making writing your full time job, you should always be on the lookout
for more resources to improve your craft.
Well, yeah. And if you are a writer.
Oh, are we is this an ad?
Great like you, but I can't recommend enough is Save the Cat by Blake Snyder.
For a listen, that's oh, that's like the condemnation
gives out an impressive amount of actionable advice
and frankly, fascinating insights about the movie industry
that I've learned a ton from.
And, oh, no, wondering what are we doing right now?
Recommending an audio.
Is he telling the Russo brothers to go buy the book? What?
Maybe if the Russo brothers read Save the Cat,
I'm pretty sure they would have had a much better in game finale.
I add senses are going off.
I feel like I'm being manipulated in the middle of his video on Avengers Endgame.
Well, that's because it's a good audio book.
And also I knew it.
Oh, yeah. Fucking audible.
I knew it.
Yeah, it's pretty.
He has ever so slightly sponsored today's video.
But seriously, I adore and listened.
People get a better and better at sneaking it in like.
What do you mean ever so slightly?
How fucking do we have to listen to the ad portion?
Audio books every day if I can help it.
The reason why I adore audible service and pretty much
of course you adore audible service.
They're paying for this video.
No offense.
I'm OK with ads.
I always have to specify this.
I just find the way everyone tries to get them in.
Yeah, it's it's not like it's not like I would.
If I was going to make it, I would find a company that I use all the time
and love anyway and then be like, hey, I love your stuff and I've used it anyway.
And I recommend it anyway.
Give me money.
It worked.
Exclusively listen to audiobooks at this point rather than reading
their paperback cousins is because it's a fantastically easy way
to optimize your time and fill in.
So that's really easy.
So that you can make your life more epic.
He's he's one of those writers.
You learn about this in like high school.
You're going to say that this is the thing they teach you, right?
You write like something was easy.
They're like, you could flower that up.
You could put it's fantastically easy.
It's like you don't need to.
This is especially when it's an ad.
Come on, you can just say it's an easy way to consume books.
I'd be curious to know if this guy's actually written anything
or published anything or whatever.
Yeah, I don't know, actually.
Maybe he seems to give a lot of advice.
Like he considers it advice.
Those mundane gaps of your life.
So a great example.
Let's say that you're on your commute to work
where people don't know how to listen to audiobooks and he's explaining it.
Now, he's I guess he's giving us an example of when we could listen to an audiobook
because that's not something that we would know ourselves.
Is there people that are aware of this?
When can I listen to things?
I guess. And again, I'm being cynical.
I'm not condemning him.
But if they said we need like an X amount of time segment,
then you got to fill it with something.
Right. Like, well, I could talk about where you might listen to one.
Fair enough.
You could see the problem with having audible sponsor you
is that you can't explain anything about them.
People don't already know.
But you can't be like it's a website that offers, you know,
that some of the settings are really good.
Most people don't talk about that.
You know, you can change the volume.
Okay, volume control. Oh, yeah.
Download stuff in advance.
I don't know.
Out the window for an hour more or you could use that time to listen to an audiobook,
get gripped in a brilliant story or just learn a ton about your chosen subject.
For me personally, the commute from my kitchen to my computer lasts all of 20 seconds.
So I'm not sure how well those seconds would be spent listening to an audiobook.
But what I like is listen to novels and write some related audiobooks
just like this one while playing games.
And that works out great for me.
And if you click my link in the description, that's audible.com forward slash closer look.
Or if you text closer look to 500 500.
Oh, I can text closer look to 500 500 to kill myself.
No, right.
Um, so like, yeah, there's not much for us to say.
Yes, we're just waiting for this.
Except audible is great.
Yeah, I can actually say I've never used audible.
And I know it's good.
Just just from the sounds useful reputation.
It just sounds useful.
Pretty sure it's good.
Check it out, guys.
Free plug audible from eFap.
How about that?
You will get any audiobook you like totally for free.
Plus two audible originals totally for free.
Plus a 30 day trial for free.
When you sign up for either of those options, you'll get a credit for one free audio book.
Is audible epic, though?
I'm waiting for it, dude.
It says start your 30 day trial.
Start your free 30 day trial.
$14.95 per month after 30 days.
Cancel anytime.
Yeah, of course.
Well, that's how everyone does it now, right?
It's like, it's free.
Oh, we're gonna start billing you if you don't cancel it within 30 days.
Don't forget.
And you can use it to get any audiobook you want in their massive library.
But I recommend Save the Cat by Blake Snyder as a great place to start.
One caveat about Save the Cat.
While I adore Save the Cat and have learned a ton from it, the book does.
Whoa, yeah, I thought I jumped.
Did anyone else get that?
That was weird.
Look at the way he edited that.
It's really weird.
Massive library.
But I recommend Save the Cat by Blake Snyder as a great place to start.
One caveat about Save the Cat.
While I adore Save the Cat and have learned a ton from it.
One caveat about Save the Cat.
While I adore Save the Cat.
He was about to say something wrong.
Oh, no, never mind.
Is the rest of this video just going to be a critique of Save the Cat?
I recommend alcohol.
Save the Cat.
All right.
Sorry, go on.
The book does have a tendency to suggest all of the tips in it are rules and that you
simply must follow them.
Otherwise, your story will.
Does it.
Don't you do that?
Have you been doing that this whole video?
I don't know.
I feel a little skeptical about that claim he's making there.
Well, you mean as opposed to the fact that the books.
It's just the book's opinion.
He probably isn't someone who does the whole objective.
Crisis averted.
But still, this video, he's been like, you know, there's a way to do it.
And it is this.
And then he's like, you know, what's not too great about this book as it tells you
that there's a way to do things.
It's like, oh, how's that work?
All and fail.
But if you put that aside and simply look at the advice as just guidelines for how to write
a kick-ass story rather than the irrefutable laws of physics,
you will learn a ton from it like I've done and improve.
Jesus, this is still ad.
Your craft and all you have to do to get started is click my link in the description.
That's audible.com forward slash closer look or text closer look to five hundred five hundred
and you'll get this brilliant audio book or any other one you like for no cost whatsoever.
Haven't you said this already several times?
I guess you should make a video on how to write an ad.
Yeah, how to write an ad.
Not like this ever.
Anyway, back to Avengers Endgame in the best epic battles.
There is give and take.
It's like a seesaw as we go from palpable dreads to filled with hope
and back to palpable dread as that.
Yeah, for the moment, they're like this that you just apply in this,
like, really specific criteria to this to try and get it to fit FYI.
There's no saw in the black gate.
There's no seesaw.
I'm assuming you guys know what I'm talking about.
The end of the return of the king.
Yeah, the end of the return of the king.
Yeah, there's no seesaw.
They're losing.
The whole point is that they're about to die because they're a distraction for Frodo.
There's no seesaw.
And this is the thing.
Would you describe that battle as epic though?
Oh, that's the thing.
I love the black gate fight.
It's great because stop making such rigid rules for battle.
Stop it.
But it's bad when save the cat makes rules.
This is all a part of that grand story structure of the scene that we just talked about.
So as the end, we didn't really talk about it as much as you just kept saying epic over and over.
I agree.
He gets closer to achieving victory.
The hero's deploy tactic that stifles the enemy's progression
and gives hope that there's a fighting chance.
Then the enemy shifts strategies and kills that hope.
The orcs charge the fort creating dread.
The defenders loose arrows, killing many of the attackers and creating hope.
The orcs put up ladders creating dread.
You already did.
Oh, wow.
Describing what happens.
Yes, we understand.
They're assaulting a castle.
Can we do this exact same thing with endgame though?
Here's a big, but I thought it was bad when you just killed goons.
Here's a big fuck up for him to deal with.
They have plenty of progression of the battlefield in season eight, episode three of Game of Thrones.
Plenty.
All kinds of defenses are destroyed.
The heroes are threadbare as they see so back and forth, activating the trench,
you know, but still losing ground.
It's like, oh, yeah, that was a really good battle, wasn't it?
That was epic.
That was an epic gamer moment.
It's more complicated than that.
You know, it is.
That's a Rob Sockrath.
Those who are best.
I don't like this video.
I'm going to put it out there.
It's a controversial take.
I know this is dumb.
This is bad.
It doesn't help.
It doesn't help anybody understand any.
This isn't going to.
This doesn't teach you anything.
This doesn't illuminate anything about the scene.
Also, on a side note, my my video is paused.
I think like one frame ahead of you.
And there's like one of the work is getting knocked in the balls.
It looks like I don't know.
We're at 1540.
Yeah, I've got 42.
41.
I'm on 39.
All right, let's maybe.
Yeah, maybe reset it real quick because I'm at 40.
Oh, pull it rags.
If you want to pull it back to 1530, whenever I pull it back,
it doesn't always bring everyone back.
All right.
Pull it back.
Not what I'm known for, but
everyone on 1531 now.
Yes.
Excellent.
But yeah, I was going to say, if you asked me what makes
Helm's Deep so good, I'd be like, how many hours have you got?
Because we're gonna have to talk about everything about Helm's Deep.
If we really want to get into structurally what makes it good,
because it's a lot more complicated than saying it's a seesaw.
And I guess you could say like, well, how do you sum up
whatever argument you're going to make?
And it's like, well, that's the problem.
I'll end up saying shit like, it's good because it's epic.
Well, it's like if you were explaining to this, they'd say,
oh, so like something good happens for one army,
then something good happens for the other army,
then something good happens for the first army,
then something good happens for the second army.
It just goes back and forth like that.
I want to mention, by the way,
especially with Game of Thrones being brought up,
the lighting in Helm's Deep is so much better than like Game of Thrones.
The fact that it's like midnight,
but you can see everything so clearly.
I love it.
The orcs charge the forge, creating dread.
The defenders loose arrows, killing many of the attackers
and creating hope.
The orcs kill foes and create hope.
But I thought killing foes was bad.
Come on.
Like I'm not trying to be mean to this guy,
but like it's such a child's way of explaining it.
To kill enemy, create hope.
You could argue in this scene as well.
It doesn't create hope at all,
because you see these arrows loosed over the wall
and yeah, like a few dozen Uruk-Kai fall,
but then you see this enormous field of soldiers beyond them.
Yeah.
And you realize how fucked they are because they're completely numbered.
Yeah.
It arguably shows how infantile their attack is.
And it's a reach and a need.
Which again, and we see that this would be a cool comparison, actually,
because what Dreeka just described is what I would say is doing it right.
Having so many enemies that even though you have that many arrows,
it means nothing almost.
This is Game of Thrones where they come in as a tidal wave
and you're like, how is that even possible mechanically?
You would all fall over each other.
Put up ladders creating dread.
The heroes managed to kill those who climb
and kick down the ladders creating hope,
but the orcs just keep raising more and over-wear the fenders creating dread.
And then it gets even worse as the orcs place bombs at the base of the wall.
See, now I feel condescended to because he's just describing the scene.
There's no, there's such little commentary.
Does this happen?
You craft an amazing battle scene using this as your guide?
No, you could not.
You would probably fuck it up even more.
You know the chat we just had about the arrows hitting the wave of enemies?
He could have had that in his video.
Yeah.
Why not?
He could have.
And that's the, that's the part that, so like of, in terms of content,
the portion of that that was just the film is
Dreeka saying, oh yeah, there's a lot of them getting hit by arrows.
So that's, that's the information.
Now commentary, which is compare that to this.
How is this working?
What is, what can it do?
Why does it do that?
With him, he's just gone pro-hope, anti-hope, pro-hope, anti-hope.
You're like, is that even true?
Okay.
And this is all to assist his narrative about the seesaw,
which we've disagreed with at the premise.
So even if he proves himself right, which he's not even doing a good job of.
Like me saying, if cheese is yellow, then the sun would have to be yellow.
But you're like, so much to break down.
This is such a bizarre fucking commentary.
Yellow is good.
Therefore the sun is made of cheese and that's good because it's yellow.
All right.
I have issues with each of your steps.
But it's like, it's not that it's worthless to not highlight the good things in things,
but it helps to say this is good.
Here's why.
And here's why it works in the scene.
Not just ed pro-hope, anti-hope, pro-hope, anti-hope.
Ladders down pro-hope.
On a highlight that the overall point, the two like sentences that are created out of this is
Helm Steep's amazing Avengers Endgame could be considered lackluster in its finale.
And it's like, oh, I kind of agree with those statements to certain degrees.
But I don't agree with any of the way it would be like if someone says two plus two is four
and you're show you're working and they just got a bunch of like letters on a page and you're like.
There's nothing else.
It's just ABC.
At all.
Which happens, right?
Because we usually cover people who reach a conclusion that we disagree with and then
they have bad workings anyway.
Like different.
Very different.
Is to kill the guy with a torch, but fails, creating even more treads and then the whole
wall explodes in this soul crushing development.
You already talked about this.
You know, this video is padded as fuck.
The enemy has breached the wall.
This is more padded than Shad's gambeson.
Diderable amount of progress to securing victory on this seesaw of epic proportions.
Take a shot.
The whole of the Helms dupe siege is just like this.
Never spending too long in that dark dread to overwhelm the viewer.
Never spending.
Jesse, I would rather talk about pacing for Helms dupe, I think.
It's yeah, it's never about it's never about hope and dread either.
It's it's about just raising the stakes.
You know, you get the explosion at the wall that allows the orcs to pour in.
That raises the stakes because they're now closer to victory.
Yeah.
Which makes it epic.
Dread is epic.
Hope is epic.
Epic hope.
Oh shit, he's in chat.
All right.
Hello there.
Creating dread.
Who's who's feeling hope right now?
I don't know if is this is the second time drink has been on while the creator of the video
comes into the chat.
Yeah, it is.
The last time the guy was the guy was really nice.
So I don't know.
Maybe we're going to be lucky tonight.
I mean, it's going to be a while before he finishes video.
So if he'd like to jump in, we may as well do it now rather than at the end.
Could do it.
It's kind of hard to know what to make of it until we've seen the whole video.
But Mr. Closer Look, would you rather stay in chat and watch us watch your video or would
you rather jump into a discord call to discuss this topic with us?
Epic.
Happy to explain myself, he said.
I mean,
I don't know if that's the answer of your to use discord.
No, that popped up too quick for him to.
Yeah, true.
Okay.
I'm keeping an eye.
We will see this chat will be
celestially.
Wait, did he say that?
Yeah, I think we can open the call.
Okay, so closer look in the description of the video or the stream,
you will find a link to my discord.
If you hit that, and then you can add me in the discord, because you'll find my profiles
on the right side, you don't have to stay in the discord.
I'm just just a formality.
And then send me a PM and then I can add you to this call.
About to get epic.
Do it.
Certainly is.
Be nice.
Time to get it.
What do you mean, I'm always nice.
The thing is, in this in this discussion, is there going to be a sense of progression?
And there's going to be a back and forth between hope and despair.
Think of debate as a hot potato.
I'm curious what he sounds like in casual conversation.
I can't play the video now.
You guys are going to talk about stuff while I saw this in the background.
What's your talk?
Hi chat.
Is it to the supermarket or whatever?
So I went to the supermarket.
Oh, shit.
I'm still streaming, right?
Okay, hang on.
I just screwed up.
Okay, so you guys can still hear me.
That's the important part.
Discord's not letting me rejoin the call I was in.
It's like, no.
I'm just going to reboot it, I guess.
The problem is CloserLook apparently sent me a DM saying it was him.
But how am I supposed to tell?
I just realized I'm a dumbass and it could be anybody.
Yeah, just give me a second.
I should find a better vetting process, should I not?
This is epic.
And yeah, this has happened to me before.
When you start a call while you're in a group call,
like a singular call, like Discord can glitch.
I'm great.
He's back.
There we go.
So the problem is I've been sent a DM by two different people saying they're him.
His name is Rusky.
Ah, that makes this easier.
I just need to...
Tell us something that only he would know.
I was going to say, all I needed to do...
Well, if you wanted to keep it a secret, then that's already been ruined.
So tell us something epic.
Now we get to hear what his normal voice is like.
How's it going?
Hello there.
Hello.
I see you've been roasting me on your livestream.
What's all this about?
I don't know what you mean.
We're having a casual discussion about Lord of the Rings and Avengers Endgame.
I think you've already seen my opinion on that, haven't you?
Yes.
Which, by the way, when I saw the title, I've said this on the stream.
I was like, oh, that's interesting because I kind of feel the same way.
Your reasoning is far and away not my reasoning.
We have very different ways of reaching that conclusion.
And how so?
Well, my reasons for why I don't like Endgame are almost all mechanical in terms of...
Let's say rules and the progression of other things, right?
So if we were to consider the whole time travel thing,
which I don't even know if that's worth it because that's a disaster.
Just everything about it, setting up this whole fight.
If we ignore all of that, I would focus first on Captain Marvel.
Basically, she's extremely overpowered.
So I don't even understand how they have any trouble.
You know, she has like the team of women who help her.
Like, half of them can't even...
That's like, she's so OP.
They have to like write an excuse for her not to be in the film.
Like, oh, they've got to be here somewhere else in the galaxy.
So like, if I was here, I could just literally solve all your problems immediately.
But I can't be there.
I've got to be around my mate's house for tea, you know?
And so then on top of that, you have...
I'm surprised you didn't comment on the fact that getting her to the van makes no sense at all.
They've got to get the stones back to their positions in time, right?
Yeah, that is a hoax.
Sending her to one position in time is bad.
But that's not even all of it.
She has no idea.
Imagine being Captain Marvel.
You arrive at Earth, they give you this gauntlet, and they tell you to jump into a van.
And you're like, okay, you do it.
And then you end up in Let's Just Be Generous and put her in 2012 Avengers time.
I think that's what that is.
She's like, okay, now what?
There's this whole fight going on.
And they're like, you've got to give the Jebs back.
That's not how they tell her that.
Like, how?
Wait, is that a personal attack?
Exactly.
But on top of that, how does she get back?
It's a good question, my dude.
I don't think they thought that one through.
No, a lot of it's not thought through.
But you know, so that's like, that's that.
Then there's the fact that you can just fly away with the gauntlet would have probably
been the better plan.
Because obviously Iron Man doing the gauntlet thing was in reaction to Thanos coming so
close to doing it.
There's that there's.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, like Thanos's sources could have probably just if they wanted to.
I mean, like people say like our Thanos's sources could have wiped out Earth.
But like the Avengers are kicking their ass, mate.
Like if if Captain Marvel flew away with the gauntlet, like the Avengers would have finished
off Thanos's forces, killed all of them, and then she just come back and sort it all
out. That's that's how you did it.
Yes, well, I guess you can tell that I have what I consider my own issues.
But then there are there are other ones that you've been bringing up that I just don't
agree with at all.
And I don't want to be like it should have to be me and you talking.
But if you want to be that way, I can.
That's fine.
I mean, like a part of what I do with my channel is I try and start conversations.
And I've said things in my videos that I like a retroactively acknowledge I was fucking wrong.
Like, I mean, like I made a video called How to Make an Ending.
And I like criticized, I think, Casino Royale.
And I said, like, Oh, the end of Casino Royale is bad because it drags on for too long.
But actually, in hindsight, I'm like, actually, I was wrong.
And the ending to see where I was actually really quite good.
It just because it like it didn't fit the structure, like through structure.
I was like, it's therefore wrong.
But I'm wrong all the time.
I happily admit I have to I may have been wrong in that video.
And I don't mean this in any way to offend, but you do not sound like you sound in your video.
Wait, wait, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Yeah, why do you guys next time on The Closer Look?
See that I've been happening in person this entire time.
I've just been one of your fans, mate.
Um, I guess what I'm getting at is less so that you don't sound anything like it is more so that
you seem to choose a certain style when delivering a lot of people do it.
So I'm not trying to be critical, but I guess I'm looking for an acknowledgement.
It's like, do you you do it on purpose?
The whole like random seemingly pause is plus the enunciation of like certain words.
At this point, it's kind of like subconscious.
Like I'll just sit down.
I'm like, all right.
I'm recording for my channel.
I'm in closer look mode.
And I don't think all right now I'm going to do like a pretentious pause between these two points.
I'm going to name it out there.
I actually prefer listening to you like this than in the video.
I might be in the minority.
Yeah, I'll be honest there.
Yeah, the voice in the video.
I get what you're doing.
I I find it amusing, but fake.
So I guess the first port of call.
I was interesting you referenced Battle of the Bastards in any way.
Do you think that's a good battle like overall?
I think it's it's okay.
I wouldn't say it's a masterpiece, but I would say it's in terms of like a structured battle.
It's better than the end of Avengers Endgame.
But you know, it's you've got like, oh, you've got the beginning of it where like
they kill Jon Snow's brother, then like they're they charge and they're like the art, the art,
the bloody arches they get in.
And it's like there is a structure to it.
And it does have like a pace and like a you can feel like the fight progressing as you watch it.
You don't have that with like the end of Avengers.
You know what I mean?
Well, that brings in a whole thing about how we disagree with you at the premise of progression
because you get right.
How dare you?
The whole point of the Avengers Endgame fight isn't that one army is losing to the other.
It's whoever gets control of and uses the gauntlet.
That's the that's what the battle is essentially facilitating.
Sure.
Therefore, it's kind of difficult to compare two battles that are predicated on different
like victory criteria almost, I guess.
Well, I get what you mean.
But then again, they are two battles.
And it's like, yes, it like to a degree is comparing apples to oranges.
I mean, like one example like Helms deep happens in like the middle of the Lord of the Rings story.
It's not the true climax of the whole thing.
But like, you're not you're not going to find a perfect parallel.
Like if you want to because what I like to do is like compare.
Okay, this is bad.
Here's an example of what's good.
You're going to be really hard pressed to find a perfect parallel.
I don't think that I don't think that a perfect parallel is our contention
that it isn't a perfect comparison.
I don't think we ever mentioned anything about perfection.
Well, maybe I'm maybe using hyperbole to make myself sound more convincing.
Follow up question, then what about the black gate?
There's no see so that it's the good guys.
I'm losing right up until is the equivalent of a Thanos snap.
The black gate is it isn't anywhere near as compelling a battle is it?
It's sort of like, hey, look, we're at the back gate.
Hey, look, come, come fight a Sauron.
Then they fight him.
And then like the ground falls in and they and that's it.
It's not I would call it the best battle scene.
I don't know, man.
Like, I appreciate the fact that all of our heroes were willing to die in order to buy Frodo time.
You know, it does have the purpose and you're right.
And actually, like when you say the black gate, that reminds me of the end of Infinity War,
because you've got like the two battles in like Wakanda and them on Titan.
And it's really the climax is about Titan.
And you've got this big fight in Wakanda, but that's actually
like that's not the most important things.
So you don't actually need to make it be this incredible, brilliant scene.
Because the real focus of story at that point is on like Iron Man and Doctor Strange as they
try and beat Thanos.
And in that moment, Lord the Rings, it's on Frodo.
Really, it's all about Frodo.
Can he get the ring into the mountain?
And similarly, the army and infinity was trying to get to vision.
Sure.
That's true.
Say that again.
There are the evil army in infinity where the Chitauri were to get to vision
and get his stones and complete the set.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And they do get very close to it, obviously.
I get what you mean.
I mean, like, I'm not sure what really to add on that one there.
Well, it's this is the problem.
It's like, yes, they are battles.
But it's really hard to be like the obvious problem for endgame compared to all these
other ones is a progression issue when each of them have all different kinds of progressions.
Some that would be completely defined in completely different ways,
or some have the same one, but just to a lesser or more degree.
And so I agree with you.
But OK, like I make the point in the video, and I think you've probably already gone past it.
There is like a two and a half minute section of the fight where literally nothing happens.
Like nothing happens.
Literally nothing.
What do you mean?
Hey, you guys, you have got me up.
I'm subscribing to your channel, right?
So I can't believe you're doing this to me.
Oh, I'm just I'm just curious.
I'm a fan, right?
Because why are you doing this to yield them?
I just I it is a pet peeve of mine.
Yeah, when people say literally, I will stand and I will die on this hill.
Would it be would it be any better if I said objectively?
Literally, anything would be better than literally.
I was going to say that's very consistent.
I will not give up scrounge on this word.
Quite literally, the objective truth is no.
But like with like that moment in like the battle, it's like, sure, you've got Iron Man
meeting with Spider-Man and that's nice.
It's you know, it's like a cathartic moment and you've got all the like all these characters
having whiz and bang punches.
But it's like if the moment like your story stagnates is like it just ceases to be as
compelling.
But when you constantly keep moving it again and again, the end game, there was a lot of
chunks in it where they just didn't even move.
There was like no status quo actually changed at like for like a long period of time.
But so like, you know, the moment where Legolas and Gimli are going back and forth
about how many people they're killing.
Could I not say that's a stagnant moment?
Well, that's after the battle is over.
I mean, I get what you mean.
During the battle as well.
And before the battle even starts, he's talking about how he's going to
kill more or the fact that he's trying to climb on the little box to be when he says,
I get what you mean, but then you can extrapolate that and say, well,
isn't any dialogue ever delivered a stagnant moment?
I guess that's the question I posed to you.
Yeah, yeah, I get what you mean.
But it's like, I think the best way of talking about it is it's like how the amount of time
that takes place when the story like when you watch a movie and you're 30 minutes in
and the plot hasn't even started yet.
It's boring, right?
Because there's no progression.
And I'm saying like you can have just like a three minute scene of your character having
banter and that's fine.
And then you carry on the plot after that.
Like you can break the rules.
I was about to say, you know, like the climax, you've got to really just go
crazy with the progression, constantly move and not just stop.
But the Lord of the Rings doesn't do that from the point of view that,
you know, like in the middle of the battle of Helm's Deep,
does anyone stop and have a conversation halfway through?
Actually, yeah, because they like him.
Theoden, Theoden has several conversations.
Yeah, Theoden.
Also, in the film.
I think I just proved myself wrong because actually in the middle of the battle,
they do like intercut with like Meryl, not Meryl.
Yes, Mary and the tree.
Meryl and the tree.
Meryl and his name is the tree.
Meryl and the tree.
Meryl and the tree.
She was good in both wings, weren't she?
It's like with the Helm's Deep siege, right?
You have like from what I can remember, there is a bit of banter between Legolas and Gimli
where like in the middle of the heat of the battle, like he's like, I've killed 17,
I've killed 23, 23, and like, but it's like over quickly.
And the battle still keeps pushing forward.
What Endgame does is like, I think like this, the bit with Iron Man and Spider-Man,
that's like 40 seconds long, you're in the middle of the climax,
like all the fighting is going on.
You're taking like 40 seconds to just have your characters have like a chat and reunion.
And I get it.
Well, there's definitely a scene like that in Helm's Deep between Aragorn and Gimli.
When he's got to bar the gate, the orcs are starting to break through.
They have to throw Gimli out onto the hallway.
That's what cutaway goes on for a good minute or two, easily.
But when you say bar the gate, do you mean like the King goes up to Aragorn and says?
No, no, it's the orcs have kind of advanced to the outer wall of the Keep, I think.
And there's a point where they need to do something with the gate to like bar
stop it from broken down.
And yeah, they have to toss Gimli out onto the platform to hold the orcs at bay while they bar it.
But that has a real break in the action because it stops while they talk about what they need to do.
And that's a good minute or so when not really anything's progressing.
So it's kind of the same issue.
Well, that is a good point.
However, I think you're right with that one.
But I would say that it's like it's relevant to the conflict.
And it's like you've got like Aragorn and Gimli are talking about this immediate crisis
that needs to be solved.
But in Endgame, it's like, oh, hey, it's an Iron Man.
How's it going, dude?
It's like it's like it's almost like a chat.
Well, I like discussing battle strategy.
I feel like between Spider-Man and Iron Man, there's so much history there that the fact
that it that it that he pauses and the way that he does is sort of what is a result of
the emotional weight between what's happening completely.
Right.
Can you argue that you've got a combination of battle moments and character moments that
you have to fulfill?
And in a confrontation like in Endgame, where you've got dozens of major characters who
are all involved, you're going to have to devote a bit more time to those characters
doing things and interacting with each other.
It's just the nature of the beast.
Yeah, I mean, you've got something like Helm's Deep.
There's maybe half a dozen major characters involved in that.
It's not the same situation.
Right.
But I think they could have at least tried.
Yeah, they didn't really try to have like the progression like.
Sorry, I like literally like my brain stopped working just a moment.
Can you say that again?
Well, sorry, the point I was making there about the point you were making my brain just.
Yeah, I think the scale of the kind of characters that are involved in these battles is vastly
different.
You know, in the Battle of Helm's Deep, you've maybe got half a dozen major characters that
you have to keep track of and give them interactions and let the viewer know what's
going on with those characters.
But if you've got something like Endgame, there's dozens of characters involved.
There's far more and you have to make the time for them to be shown doing things.
You have to keep track of them all.
You have to have them interacting with each other.
It's going to be different because you have to spend more time on those characters
because there's so many of them.
And that's going to hurt the progression to some extent because you can't be showing
the battle progressing while they're doing their thing.
Yeah, I said that was happening in the background anyway, because it like I mean,
like I saw like a lot of people in my comments complaining how they didn't give any Drax any
love. And basically Drax didn't have any lines in the film. But like the thing is, is like,
they could have like added a moment for Drax, but then they have to cut something else out
because it's already like an obscenely long movie.
I was gonna I wanted to highlight like one of my bigger issues with the scene is that
we needed more character stuff. I need there's more characters that need to be acknowledged.
I don't like what they did with Star Lord. I don't like the his contribution to the fight
is he shoots a couple of nobodies and then gets kicked in the balls, kicked in the balls.
How is that for a metaphor for how they've treated him in these two movies? But uh,
yeah, Drax is one of them Hulk. Hulk throws a guy right at the beginning. And then he moves
a guy out of the way halfway through and that's it. Like Hulk should be fighting Thanos. He should
have a moment with Thanos. And that's the other problem. Thanos isn't the right Thanos in this
fight. He needs to be the different needs to be the infinity or Thanos. It changes everything.
Yeah, that's like a really common complaint. Everyone's been saying
the microcosm is you took everything from me. Such a powerful moment. The response? Who are you?
And the other thing, yeah, just quickly, I think I want to highlight from the moment,
like Iron Man's fighting, I forget his he has a name, but they don't say it in the movie, but the
big big black Hulk guy that's evil. That's it. He gets crushed by Ant-Man, right? Would you agree
that that's a progression in the fight or not? I think, you know, like arguing whether something
is a progression is ever so slightly kind of pedantic. It's more like, is it like,
But your entire video, yeah, that's sure. The thing is right. It's like, I could,
it's like, I could say, ah, this is compelling. But like, I try to like, think of hate to say the
word in the video essay, but like objective, like trying to find like a device they don't use,
or like a thing, very specific tangible thing they don't do rather than just saying the death
of the significant henchmen of her Thanos. Like, surely that that counts for something.
It felt like they just brushed over it with the death of the henchmen.
Because I would describe the leader of the elves in Helm's Deep Dying as a moment of like, oh,
fuck, like we've just lost their leader, the elves and there's corpses of elves littering the place.
Like, to me it is, but I was just going to highlight. So I would argue that that is
progression, even of a smaller degree, but once Ant-Man is done stepping on him,
if you count from that moment where Peter swings into see Iron Man to the next moment,
like cutting away from it, it's only 20 seconds. Not much. Yeah. And for such a powerful thing,
because like Rags just said, it's like, it's the amount of history between those two.
And I know that it would be really odd if they didn't have it.
You know what, right? I just realized a thing like I should have added into my video,
that you can do character in action in the middle of like an action scene where everything is
kicking off and people are fighting. While the fighting is going on, you can still
betray tons of character and like on a moment. Like what if, for example, it's like a homage,
like civil war, the war machine gets crippled in the air and then Falcon swoops in and saves his
life. And like you've got the character moment in the middle of a battle, but you've got like,
it shows like a homage, like a development where they now respect each other when they didn't.
And like you can show really powerful character. You don't need to stop and have a dialogue
exchange in the middle of a battle. You can just do it. I don't think that it needs to be like them
too, focusing 100% on a hug. You don't need him to save Spider-Man or vice versa. Even though
that does happen, by the way, Spider-Man saves Iron Man for being killed in that moment. He's
about to get stabbed by Cull Obsidian, someone said in the chat. Apparently that's his name.
And then to bolster that, the next scene after is Star-Lord fighting those guys. He's about to
be killed by one of them and Nebula, not Nebula, Gamora shoots it in the head or the chest,
whatever. It doesn't matter. What I would say is that what you're describing is kind of what's
happening. It may not be like, could we tweak it? Could we improve it? I'm happy to agree with it.
It's just that your video implies it's almost non-existent.
Yeah, I think it is almost non-existent. I would say non-existent, but like, I mean,
I'd say there are moments of progression. I don't know if you saw it, but like when
Captain Marvel destroys the ship, that is a big change. How can we count anything before the portals?
The portals, because I don't really consider that part of the exact same fight. I think that
Iron Man and Captain America and Thor fighting Thanos is like its own separate little fight
before the big one begins. In the same vein, you do count knowing the structure of Helms Deep,
knowing the weaknesses and the walls, knowing that Saruman is going to target it,
like all of these things. Does it seem inconsistent?
Like the exposition. Yeah, because you said, if you remember in your own video, you say that
Endgame doesn't really work unless you know about a whole bunch of stuff that comes before it,
and so it doesn't work on its own. Oh, yeah. That's a thing that got a lot of flack for
in the comments, and I think I probably said it wrong. What I was trying to say with that was
that if you take any good battle scene completely out of context and show it to someone who's never
seen the exhibition, whatever, they'll still find it like a really enjoyable action scene.
If you showed the Endgame battle to someone who has never even heard of the MCU, they'd probably
be quite bored by it. Because I don't know. I don't know about that at all, actually.
So like, if we're talking about dangling keys, right, like just just special effects and stuff,
there's a lot in there, like a giant person punching an enormous whale alien. Like, whoa,
that's kind of interesting for someone who you don't need context for that giant,
giant man. And that's a creature from the Chitauri army that we saw in the Avengers,
you know, you don't necessarily. Yeah, I got you.
And I know, I know, like, well, that's one point. I'm like, well, we could go on. I just think the
Endgame, it might even be a criticism from me that Endgame's final battle works really well
for someone who has no context when it, like I said, I want more character stuff. I want more
of a culmination moment because it's funny that someone with no context might be like,
who's this Superman person coming in from space that's destroying everything Thanos has? And
I'm just sitting there sighing. So I'm like, if you knew it would make it worse.
Yeah, and you have the opposite end of the spectrum where someone without any context
wouldn't have any idea why Captain America getting Mjolnir would be a big deal.
Yeah, that's that's a fair point. I'm like, I'm not saying that it would be like, I'm not saying
you should design the scene to be seen by someone who's like never to be seen by someone who's
never seen anything before. But like, a fight should be its own story, right? Where like so
every good story has like a midpoint where like the tides turn, maybe that if the heroes are
winning at the midpoint, suddenly the villains are winning. If the villains were winning,
suddenly the heroes win, like the midpoint is the big change. Where is the midpoint?
Yeah, but then if you take the if you take the the end sort of confrontation as a whole,
instead of just picking the from the moment the portals appear, you do get that turning point,
you know, they don't take on Thanos, all that's left is Captain America, he's got this enormous
army rolled in against him, everything seems to be lost. And then you get the turning point of the
portals appearing, suddenly, it's leveled the playing field, and then the game is on kind of
thing. Sure. I was like, story progression right there. But you could have done that by analyzing
it as a whole rather than just taking the half the battle almost. But I would that is a good point.
And if they were going to do that, I think what they should then was make the big battle shorter,
or alternatively, put more beats and changes in it. It was like, like, if they were to structure
that way, it could have easily worked. But I think that the battle if they were trying to do that,
it went on for too long, or they didn't have enough changes and pop plot points in the battle.
But it is structured that way. Yeah, what we're trying to say is we you're cutting the start of
the fight at the portals. And I'm like, it seems kind of arbitrary. I get what you mean.
It's when the reinforcements arrive, we don't count them like battle the bastards,
for example, doesn't begin once once the reinforcements arrive.
Right. But by that point, all the the armies themselves have already been clashing with each
other. So all relative, right? There was already technically an army of there was like 12 Avengers
or whatever, against a Thanos and Nebula. And I can't remember if any of the bonus people were
there, but his ship certainly was. Like, I guess what I'm trying to say is like, you
you seem to be drawing this line to assist your argument rather than the other way around.
Well, I you could argue, I probably argue that it was kind of like a subjective draw in the sand.
But it's like, I can't use words. The thing is, is for me, I kind of like, I thought that the big
fight with Thanos and Thor and Iron Man, they should have done that at the very end of the
battle. And that was in my mind when I was writing the video. And so sort of I was thinking
that that was like the start of it. It's, it's hard to say when does the battle start?
My disappointment was that it was so quickly over and Iron Man gets knocked out for the majority of
it. When you just hit by Thor's hammer, that's what knocks him out. And I was like, he was hit
by Thor's hammer with a Mark suit that was way lower than that in Avengers. Like, so, you know,
again, my issues with it are so much more mechanical, like breaches of continuity rather than
because I'll just be honest with you now, like seeing the shot of the cape plus the Iron Man
suit plus the the shield and just walking up to him. I was just like, my body is ready. Like,
just just just give me it. But then they start the fight and we cut away and I'm like, okay,
okay, we're gonna cut back and we do. And it's I think it's like Iron Man powers up,
then he gets knocked out. And it's like, wow, it's already over for the 3v1.
Like, I could have gone for that for a good like two minutes, even if it meant
saying that Thanos was more powerful for some reason, because there's the whole issue of how
is Thanos winning when he was losing to them when they were more powerful than this previously.
There's a lot of conversation about how to explain that, like Thor being fat is apparently
a really good explanation for how he's not as powerful, out of shape, that sort of thing.
But yeah, you your problem seems to be the location of that battle rather than what it is.
Well, we mean, like the location in the timeline, where it is in the in the in the timeline. Well,
I think this is at the very end of the video for like the past last like four minutes,
I like I like put forward like my alternate, how I would have structured this battle thing.
And basically, the way I would have done it was like, have it so change it. So change the
basic bits of it. So like, the infinities to like Thanos is like a paradox or whatever.
And the Avengers have the infinity stones, they're repairing the time machine trying to
send it back in time while Thanos is like sieging the Avengers compound. And that way you can have
like some progression, like really tangible progression as Thanos slowly gets towards this
time machine room, and he slowly gets towards it. And like why, what they should have done
is they should have taken that fight between the big three and Thanos and moved it right at the
very end. So that was like the genuine climax of the movie. Once the fight was over, once all the
other Avengers are incapacitated, it's the big three versus Thanos. And that is the very final
fight. I think that would have been a better way to do it.
It might have been I, I'm up for it. I was mainly just focusing on the sort of, I guess we're in the
first half of it. A theoretical, a theoretical improved vision of the endgame finale. I we could
we could sit here all day talking about it, because I think there's so many things to improve.
It's just that we seem to have a different idea on which things we'd be focusing.
It's like if you asked two guys to paint a ship, the two guys would paint it in a totally different
way. You said like the whole hot potato thing. Was that a criticism?
It was a little bit of criticism. And it's also kind of true. It's true. I just don't think it's
a criticism. Yeah, I kind of like threw it off handed. But like the thing is, like, yeah,
it was, it was a little jab. It wasn't really like a big point I was trying to make.
Oh, because, well, I wanted to explore with you, like, do you think it's a bad thing to have a
fight revolving a little bit around a very important MacGuffin? I think when you when you're
using a MacGuffin in a fight, you need to be very careful. If you if you don't, it will end up like
the end of Amazing Spider-Man 2. Amazing Spider-Man 1, where you've got Spider-Man and the lizard
fighting over a vial to save the city. An incredibly forgettable climax point that I'm describing now
you probably can't remember it. I want to address Jay saying that's not how you play hot potato. Of
course, hot potato is like you pass it as soon as possible, right? It's not necessarily we're just
saying it's cold. It's cold. Yes. Yes. We know we know the specifics of hot potato and how it
doesn't necessarily apply. It's just we both know what you're saying when you say hot potatoes. All
right. I akin it to like, I said we mentioned capture the flag. And what was the thing you
mentioned rags from Halo? What was it called? I'm thinking a grift ball. Yeah, like it's not the
it's not the best example because oh, well, it's not great because the point of
Griftball is to you want to have control, not necessarily possession. That makes any sense in
a sports related way. Because you get a ball into the goal. So I think we all get what what the
point is. Yeah. Because I don't actually have a problem with saying it's almost like a sport.
It's two teams, there's a ball, and they both trying to get a goal, which is get it to the
right player to press the button. But I think but I think they've earned that with how much discussion
and how much time they've spent to being very in depth about the power of the gauntlet and what
it does and what they need to do with it. Yeah, it does sort of demystify, right? You've got those
powerful objects in the universe, and they're like playing catch with it and stuff. You know,
like, I was about to bring up that very point with you. Is it kind of like an Indiana Jones
and the kingdom of the crystal skull where they're just kind of tossing this skull around in a bag,
like it's, like you say, just a hot potato or something? Yeah, kind of makes it seem less
powerful and less dangerous somehow that you can just throw it around from person to person.
It's like part of the thing I was I would say about that is it's really hard to like,
basically, right, when you're like structuring any kind of story, you want the viewer to have
this feeling that are yes, we're getting really close to the end, I can feel it really tangling
up getting closer and closer. When you see these characters, oh, now Spider Man's got it. Oh, now
Black Panther's got it. Oh, now Scarlet Witch has got it just again and again.
Yeah, this is a progression of events. Yeah.
I can I can understand. They're all working together. Like with the way the rules work,
it's it is a glove. It has the stones in it. Whoever wears it has the power to destroy the
universe. Of course, it can be thrown around. Why wouldn't it be? I get the point is like,
it should be such a special item. It should just be tossed around. I'm like,
it's not really a battle. It might actually be advantageous to do that.
Yeah, like, I guess I'm on the team of like, well, it has to be right now. That's what that's
the position we're in. From a consistency point of view, though, just touching the stones. Is that
not enough for you? Well, I was actually in Guardians of the Galaxy. They do establish that
in Guardians of the Galaxy, they establish that one stone is will probably kill you if you try to
pick it up. And so that's why Hulk holding the time stone was a bit weird in Endgame. But holding
the gauntlet to me is fine. They're just holding the gauntlet. They're not putting their hand in
it. I'm fine with holding the time stone. Because it's not like it's not like raw power. What I'll
give them is that yeah, it's not the power stone. You can say that the power stone. I guess the
power stone ever held that way. I don't think I think we're okay with that one. Not without
repercussions. Yeah, I think I think it's the only stone. Yeah, I mean, you can hold the soul stone.
There's nothing wrong with holding the soul stone. I mean, both. Yeah. And Hulk is established to be
the one out of them all. But it's not like there's an experience to it, right? He just holds
it. And again, I'm not saying it's a problem. Because technically speaking, that doesn't
contradict any other scene. If we go by I think it adds to the the power of the power stone,
if that's the power stones thing, I can agree with that. It's just wrong. And I actually supports
the fact that Thanos pulls it out and clenches his fist with it. And it allows him to get the
power stone power back, you know, anything, anything to punch that bitch. I'm fine with.
Yeah. How could you say they wasted a climax when they had that in it, dude?
You know, like, like a problem I've really got with like, with the end of Avengers Endgame,
you've got like the five infinity stones, you can get so creative with like the way that you use it.
Like how about Captain America puts the hammer puts Mjolnir on top of Thanos, how Stan is going
to get out, he uses the reality stone to turn off of turn off gravity, and all of a sudden gravity
just turns off and the hammer can't weigh him down. Because there's no gravity, they could have done
such cool little things like that. They didn't use it at all. They use it for punching Captain
Marvel in the face. And that's it. How could you say that? Fucking work. But I actually mean,
if he had to pick one, that'd be the problem with that, though, kind of brings in the like some of
my criticisms of Infinity War, like the fight on Titan. I love the fight on Titan. But he has the
ability to make himself invisible. Like there's no way they could ever beat him. He was he'd won,
you know, but he they had to make it they have to I just I wish the mechanics on the gauntlet were a
bit stronger. Because they went as far as saying he can only use it while clenching his fist. I was
like, Oh, that's a good start. That's a really good start. Because it instead of him being
ridiculously OP, it kind of frames his abilities. We have a way this is a system to this. But then
they're also just like, by the way, he has the ability to turn people into like spaghetti at will.
And he's not doing it. And you're like, why isn't he doing it? This is like they're about to stop
him from winning everything he probably want to do. I'm talking about obviously,
probably just add like an on off button.
One of the fixes some people have suggested is the the idea is he wants a fair fight. He wants
to prove that he is the strongest or whatever. And it's just like, can't really do that when he has
the he's kind of like, I'm unfair as it is. But yeah, well, so you said you were subscribed to
rise. Do you know anything about eFap or me or a critical drinker or anything?
Well, I've been sort of loosely following. I mean, like, I first not gonna lie, the first time I
discovered your this podcast was when I like Patrick H. Williams made that video about you
watching movies wrong. Oh, yeah. And then I watched your episode like Jesus, you tore into
him so hard. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's all hopefully an entertainment with fun. We're
absolutely happy to have people we would have him on. I just know that he would never come on this.
And I think this video was just awful. And I think it was sending a really bad message to
writers as well. And the fact that he advocates that like children's content should be well
written. It's just like, fuck it is. I mean, in that respect, I do I do I did disagree with that
video. I thought like, yeah, you really shouldn't have plot holes. It's just like an excuse to be
lazy when you say that. Well, yeah, that's interesting. And I was just gonna say, in case
any interest in you leaving or anything, thank you for talking about because I don't really
there's not much else I'd want to say unless anyone else does. No. Okay. And you are you can
stay if you want to. Well, I was gonna go to bed like 10 minutes ago anyway, but I've had fun
just talking shit about my channel. Well, now we've got a lot of contacts. Who knows what will
happen. But again, I really appreciate it. I don't know. Would you be would you be interested
in being a guest sometime or no? Yeah, maybe. I mean, like, yeah, we just hit the kid.
Yeah, I don't know if you know the the reputation of the fat with bad people.
Yeah, I have I have I have heard. Do you know just right at all that channel?
Just right. Yes. I believe you tore into his video on The Last Jedi or something like that.
He advises people stay away from our podcast. So yeah, I think I know why. Yeah.
So I leave it up to you. So but I'm sure you're a good person, dude. Well, yeah,
but I'll keep you in mind if you'd like to and enjoy the rest of the podcast.
Thank you for coming on. And I appreciate it. I hope you have a good sleep.
You too. I was saying you too.
You. People in chat, what's wrong with you? They keep saying ask the episode nine question.
It's for episode guests. It's not for random cameos. Otherwise, we'll be all over the place.
We have a lot of cameos random. You people will get them on as a question.
We'll ask him. The Star Wars question needs to have events of aggression.
Exactly. It needs to be epic.
You will think I'm not looking. I'm like, how many times I've shaded.
Epic and celestial. My goodness. Um, yeah, guys, which one?
Feel a bit bad tearing into the rest of his video. Now that we spoke in term,
he's humanized himself. I wish he would use that voice in his video.
Way better. Yeah, man. I don't know why he uses that. This weird,
pretentious, terrible, fakie voice. Like that's not how you talk.
I enjoyed that conversation. He sounds like a good old fashioned human being.
It does sound like he may have rushed this video, though, because he didn't disagree with a lot of
what we were saying, but it looks things. Yeah, I feel like he watched in game once
and kind of just worked with it from memory. I do think we kind of caught him off guard
with bringing him in as well. Yeah. You know, he probably wasn't prepared for this.
But I mean, it's not like we make a whole video about it.
It's not like we've watched all these movies in prep for this.
That you know, some people might say that some people aren't good for debate.
I think he did fine. And with with some time, maybe he would have disagreed with us a bit more.
But I don't know. Who asked the question? Well, DX is actually going to be a guest,
hopefully in the future. But that that would have been an error.
That probably would have been peer pressure. You chat people being like,
episode nine question, episode nine question. Terrible.
Bringing the other guy claiming to be him. We try both.
It would have been so funny if he actually managed to get the wrong person on here.
He's a really good impersonator. Epic.
Yeah, is everyone good to I guess we'll carry on. He said he had a fixed.
Yeah, sure. We can check it out.
He had a what? Yeah, he's gonna, as you said, in the second portion,
or at least second half, I think that he's going to give us a theoretical end game ending.
All right. A better one.
Long and hope and victory as when you spend too long focusing on hope and victory.
He doesn't sound anything like that.
He doesn't sound anything like this. Why do the voice?
Victory. Like, why? Why?
Doing a voice doesn't even occur to me.
My voice is how I talk.
Well, I mean, if you come into this discord and he was like,
Hello, gentlemen, I'd be like, Oh, no.
How is it that you are this day? Are you feeling epic this afternoon?
He talked like a normal ass guy.
He did.
You were never spending too long in hope and victory as when you spend too long focusing on
hope and victory that in turn kills the terror of the moment.
And when we see exactly this as an audience, we think, well, it's going to be okay.
The Avengers will win this battle, no problem, because the past three minutes straight have been
nothing but the heroes kicking the bad guy's ass in a very one side.
Doesn't really matter if they were kicking their ass or not.
If Thanos gets that, go on.
It's about the gauntlet. Yeah, it's all about the gauntlet.
And yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, a lot of these arguments just come back to that one thing again.
Like the this isn't the real battle.
I mean, it is a battle and it's, you know, a big army on either side.
But the real battle is who gets the gauntlet first and gets to use the gauntlet first.
And in battle, in my opinion, the greatest epic battles out there in Thanos's words are
perfectly balanced, as all things should be.
Yeah, but that was his issue that it was that no side is losing.
Yeah, that doesn't seem consistent with what he said before.
Do you want it to be a total balance or do you want to have one side gaining ground and
accomplishing achievements, like getting things done?
What he means by balance is they have equal losses and victories.
But that's not how battles work.
Not only that, but it's not how the Battle of Bastards or the Lord of the Rings one work.
The human's man is losing in Helm's Deep all the way up until they're winning.
You know what I mean? Like they win the battle right at the end.
And then Battle of Bastards, again, they're losing miserably right up until the Vale arrive.
They find a delicate balance between the two opposite feelings of hope and fear.
And this is something that Avengers Endgame really falls flat in its arse with in the final battle.
I don't know, man. Thanos having the gauntlet, getting battered to and from him between our main
heroes. Yeah, preventing him from hope. Yeah. He's going to snap.
Oh, they held it shut. Oh, is it going to snap? Oh, he's fighting someone else.
Oh, they can't. He can't. I mean, again, there is a remember there's a point in this film where
he's got the Infinity Gauntlet on. He's got the stones in it and they have to stop him from
snapping. Comes comes extremely close. And I guess maybe that's not.
Well, again, maybe we should watch the video with him.
It is true that in this fight we have little moments of dread here and there. Thanos nearly
getting the gauntlet towards the end that does create dread. Spider-Man getting hit by the
cannons for progression of events that creates dread too. Yay. But these sparse moments of
hopelessness. They are. How are they sparse? Drowned in positivity. Drowned in positivity.
Just getting hit by the cannons. Like, you know, there's there's lots of characters who
get injured or put down. Yeah, like there's the Squidward makes the wall that catches Black Panther
and he's trying to get around it to get to the guy. I mean, there's it's a constant they're
struggling to get this gauntlet where it needs to go. It's a big deal.
I agree on that. It is a big deal. And we see that is one of those midpoint low point moments,
right, where all of our heroes are about to get obliterated by the raining fire. And I'm like,
no, no, no, no, no. And it pauses. All the guns move. It's like, oh, that is the. And then
despair kicks in. Because I think when I first watched Endgame and I saw the cannons pointing
upwards, I'm like, oh, is it like some intergalact like the the what's the the faction from the
first galaxy or sort of Guardians of the Galaxy like the good guys and that like they brought
their army here because this is like a universal global, you know, everyone's coming together to
fight it. And it's like, oh, it's a whole new army showing up. Oh, no, it's a single person.
I had no I knew somehow I knew when when that happens, I had this feeling deep down.
It's like, oh, fuck, she's I was too optimistic that I would never see your fucking face ever
again. I was. You were feeling you were feeling hope when she said I was feeling hope. And then
I had my moment of dread when she said I might be gone for months. That to me was like, she's not
in the whole movie now. Oh, yes. Thank God. I'll never have to see her again. Well, like ironically,
when they start shooting into space and they're all like, what is that? I was like, no, no.
I mean, my first thought was that like, maybe Nick Fury was going to record. Yes.
No. That's the fix. Yeah. The court showed up. I would even I would say that would improve it
if she was there with them, like having the scrolls, the Nova Corps and a bunch of other
like, even the rabbit ravages showing up. All these people love that so much more.
I would like that so much more is like, yeah, fucking what's her face is here.
But at least we have like, this is a universal effort fighting against Thanos and we're all
cooperating. And these armies that we've seen before that exists that obviously exist. We know
these armies are real. We've seen them here. Oh, fuck. This only applies to who was there.
I think it was when we were looking at the just right video, you just kept. Yeah, right.
You were there for this because it's a 50. Garavon just said we hoped to not see Captain Marvel.
And then we saw Captain Marvel ironic. Because everything is ironic.
I was five. Yeah, five examples. Only one of them was like, I heard him. Maybe
just right. You're welcome to come back on. I know you don't like us anymore.
How do you ever did victory to the point of its own detriment? Although now I see that out loud,
I kind of realize how cynical that may sound. But here's an example of that. So we have the
admittedly hopeless moment where Thanos' ship is bombarding the characters. I mean, no characters
we know are killed by this move in which bombardment the first or the second this has is Spider-Man
getting hit. But he does get up moments later only first one doesn't count because it's before the
polls. Okay, all right, slightly winded. So because a lot of the times people say in battles,
it sort of begins when one side attacks first. Yeah, not to mention the severe low point of
watching roadie Hulk and Rocket about to be drowned. Oh, Jesus. And I don't know. It's like
you lose a lot when you just cut that part out. But how interesting would it have been
if you had been Mendelsohn come back as Mr. Skrull, and he assumed the form of Thanos.
And one of them was the real Thanos. The one one was fake one. And they were like, Oh, shit,
which was in one of the bad guys is doesn't know who to give the gauntlet to or whatever.
You just made me think you could have done. Imagine Infinity War Thanos doesn't like 2014
Thanos. Like he's like, you're your petty, you have no idea. You're not sure of why you're even
doing like this. I'm saying this in my head. Like I don't know if I want this to happen. Because it
would be so bizarre to have two Thanos is arguing with each other. But I actually do kind of feel
like Infinity War Thanos would be annoyed with 2014 Thanos. Like he's be like, you're too
petulant. You're too like, vicious. You don't you're not clear on why this is important.
You don't know what it's you don't know what it's like to lose what you love.
That's yeah. And you're not balanced. You know, he's like, holds up that double sided sword
2014,000 just dips to one side.
The real effect that this has is Spider-Man getting hit. But he does get it moments later
only slightly winded. So it's not really. But okay, to give credit, this is a hopeless moment.
Then the ship turns all of its guns towards the sky, giving the characters some relief as there
is this gush of hope. They open fire and do nothing to stop Captain Marvel. As nothing
in this 40 second long sequence, as all the characters look up and smile in this eight of
it. Fucking rockets in like, yeah, I was like, stop it. Stop it. Don't encourage her.
Hope filled moments. Then we immediately cut to Captain Marvel taking the gauntlet from Spider-Man
passing on the torch. This is yet another gush of hope. We have that diversity moment.
I didn't feel hope together, which is yet another. It's not diverse if they're all women.
Well, in relation to the whole film, I guess is how it's diverse. I don't know,
bad. I've never known how the rules work. That scene where she takes the gauntlet from Peter,
she looks so goddamn smug as well. I'm invincible. Why aren't you?
She sounds smug as well. Hello, Peter. Give me the gauntlet, Peter. You can't do this.
Piece of shit.
I can't wait to see Captain Marvel 2 is going to be so...
Shut up.
Then all of those women kick absolute ass and kill a ton of Thanos' soldiers with incredible ease.
This is another great gush of hope. I'm sure you can see the point I'm making here,
because this whole two minute section of the battle provides an utterly huge amount of yin
and absolutely zero yang to go. You just described a lot of the yangs.
I'm pretty sure it's yang like that. And also, it's just interesting, by the way,
again, this phenomenon of like, I kind of agree with his conclusion,
but his approach to this is so strange. Yeah. I think that whatever number out of 10 you give
the fight of endgame typically, removing Captain Marvel boosts it by like five points,
wherever it is. It's like such a, like I could make this in the video of like,
just how to fix the endgame fight. It's just we go and just take her out for the credits.
With it, the heroes achieve victory after victory and deal with the situation so easily,
it actually kills our dramatic invest. Weird that he says the heroes deal with
victory after victory and shows a clip of Thanos discovering the heroes are trying to subvert him.
I feel like it's B-roll like he threw it in because of Infinity War. Yeah,
there's more of a video essayist editing comment. I just find it strange.
Victory after victory and deal with the situation so easily, it actually kills our dramatic
investment because how can we feel afraid for our characters when all they do is win, win, win and
overcome 10 hurdles in a row as if they were all because it's not about killing the army.
That's not the win condition, man. It never was an inch tall. I mean, I'm a 22 year old with limited
writing experience living in my mom's house. I am no expert, but right off the bat. Oh no,
don't broadcast that publicly. No, that's something you should be ashamed of. No, no, don't do that.
I am no expert, but right off the bat, he is a better alternative for this sequence.
So we have Captain Marvel arrive in the exact same way. She obliterates the ship. No,
you've already started terribly. Yeah, I was gonna say bad. Why would you keep this in? No,
no, you already fucked up. No, I don't even mind his idea of having the three mains fight Thanos
toward the end of the fight and get beaten. And then Iron Man does the final sacrifice sort of
thing. But we have Thor do that part. Screw Captain Marvel Thor takes out the ship. We saw
him do an Infinity War. It makes sense that this is his this is his thing. We might even have some
clips of him being in the corridors like fucking with some of the people of inside the ship while
he's trying to break through all of it. Screw it. What else does Captain Marvel do other than that
that we'd have to fill in for? It's like nothing really. Everything else can be done by us.
Yeah, I suppose so. Yeah, I think it's much more tension filled to have people like Black Panther
and Spider-Man moving that gauntlet than having her. Because she's just this she's like a bullet
train that's literally immune to damage. Yeah, there's not even any point of like the other
women covering for her because they don't need to she can just blast through anything that's in her
way. The whole volley of the battleship doesn't even slow her down. Remember the moment they have
where they have I think it's Wasp. Yeah, I think it's Wasp, Shuri and Peppa. They all like fire a
laser at Thanos to get him out of the way of Captain Marvel as if she couldn't just go through
him anyway. What's he gonna do? You can travel the speed of light. I mean, that whole scene
production ruins this shit. They had the entire arsenal of his ship fire her and it did nothing.
Like, why is it that? Does she have any weaknesses in like the comics or anything?
The character is just a huge personality.
Damage to Thanos's army. So let's change the battle a little bit. So the infinity stones get
separated at one point and Thanos manages to get his hands on the space stone. And after Captain
Marvel is done obliterating his fleet, she screams towards him ready to take his head off when Thanos
simply waves his hand and using the space stone, teleports Captain Marvel to the other side of the
Milky Way. Why wouldn't you have stopped destroying his ship then if he had the power to do that?
Also, how is he? Wait, have I missed something? How is he holding the gauntlet without snapping it?
I mean, she's holding the gauntlet without snapping it. Well, I just mean, he said he's
gonna use the space stone to do bubble eyes. Like, so he has the gauntlet on. So he has all the
stones in the gauntlets. I'm just going to bring it back. So I think he's talking about
those stones being separated again. Oh, he's only got one of them. Oh, okay. But then you're just
doing infinity war all again, aren't you? Yeah, so I guess, so I guess the other stones, our heroes
have the other stones and then they use them. Yeah. Yeah. Try saying the stone. He said the
stones got separated. The battle a little bit. So the infinity stones get separated at one point
and Thanos manages to get his hands on the space stone. And after Captain Marvel is done obliterating
his fleet, she screams towards him ready to take his head off when Thanos simply waves his hand
and using the space stone, teleports Captain Marvel to the other side of the Milky Way. Yeah,
all I'd say about that then is I didn't use it to save his ship from here, but
maybe he got the space stone just after that. And she appears somewhere so outrageously far away
that it would take a literal years just to travel back to earth, which would be a really
cool and creative way of using someone pinch me. This is like a red dwarf when rivers in the escape
pod and it's like, yeah, it's going to take us like 20 years to catch up to you. It's so
fucked up that we'd see that as a victory. Thank goodness. Good job,
established in the infinity stones. So in this improved version of the fight,
we have that victorious feeling of Captain Marvel's arrival. And all of a sudden,
Thanos obliterates that hope by taking out the Avengers. She still knocked out his ship.
It's undeniably a huge benefit still. Powerful member with a literal wave of his hands.
What we've done here is we haven't radically altered what was in Endgame.
We've just optimized it. Doesn't that sound optimized? Interesting word to use. And the
problem is we've still got a whole bunch of questions. How did they get separated? Who
has them? What's going on with the gauntlet? It makes it much simpler for the audience to
understand if you've got the gauntlet is there with all the stones. I just, I hate that screenshot,
by the way. Captain Marvel, you could put that thing on and save the whole fucking universe.
She's like, it'll hurt me though. And I'm like, yeah. Yeah. Oh, no. Oh, no.
Give it to the mortal. Let him kill himself.
Or exhilarating to watch. Then three minutes of positive beat after positive beats. When you
compliment the positive moments with the negative, like a never ending sandwich,
it makes any fight scene or screw it. What's the negative part of a sandwich?
It makes you fat. The bread. I don't know.
So just load mass sandwiches and a bridal rage. Never ending sandwich. It makes any fight scene
or screw it. Just any scene. So much more gripping. It makes the positive moments more
heroic and the negative ones more soul crushing. And it's something like the climactic battle.
But do they make sense? And I think we still have those bits.
They are. Yeah, we've got them.
And there are the sandwiches, the middle.
All right, I'll put that like the idea.
The idea of cutting the crust off your sandwich is like a mortal sin to Alan.
Much like a sandwich. The negative part of this story is the middle.
What?
This endgame almost entirely fails to do. And if you thought I'd run out of reasons
where the end battle of Avengers Endgame is flawed, mate, I haven't even started by this point,
because another flaw in the battle of Endgame career has an extremely poor understanding of
the geography. So in Helm's Deep, the audience. I can agree with this to a degree. We have no
idea exactly where everyone is. Everyone seems to be in the places they need to be when they need
to be there. Sort of. If you remember, like Doctor Strange looks when the water breaches and then
he's just right next to it. Yeah, it's weird. The geography is weird. I'll give him that.
So at all times has a comprehensive understanding.
And absolutely. See, I think this is a fair comparison. The geography of Helm's Deep
is almost impossible to misunderstand. Everything is very clear.
Yeah, I love Helm's Deep.
As to where the characters are and what they're doing. Let's take this part of the siege when the
lower area is already breached and the orcs are trying to access the keep. We know that Aragorn
and Gimli are at the ramp stalling the orcs so the defenders can barricade the door. We know that
the orcs try to set up ladders to reach the keep and Legolas is on the battlements trying to repel
them. And the fact that Jackson establishes such a strong understanding of exactly where everyone
is and what they're doing. It does more than just prevent confusion.
I wouldn't. This is the other thing, though. I'm not going to say the endgame is confusing.
I think it doesn't make sense where everyone is and gets to wherever they need to be when they
need to be it. But I understand where they are. I understand what they're doing. If you know what
I mean, like, yeah, I gotcha. I mean, it's like it's impossible for Doctor Strange to just appear
next to the water breach when he needed to. And I'm like, not necessarily, but I still understand
that he is there. I understand it in the moment. But also, the the geography of the fight isn't
really necessary. Like, it's not really tied to the plot the same way it is in Helm's Deep.
Well, it's not like there's a huge chasm or something that prevents everybody from
the other. You know, it's not about gaining or holding ground, I guess.
When you're not defending something.
I was going to argue it's a little bit superficial on my part, but I was going to say, like,
it would be cool to have a scan of the battlefield and you can see everybody doing their thing and
that it will actually make sense. And everybody's got like the Russo's knew where everyone was and
how they were going to be able to access different parts of the battlefield. The comparison for that
would be I'm on hand in Fellowship of the Ring. There's a there's a long shot with like what I
guess would be a crane. They scan from Gimli Legolas and Aragorn fighting Uruk-Hai all the
way across like a plane and down a hill until they reach Boromir defending Eri and Pippin.
And so it gives this really strong sense. It's like this is a place. There is a battle happening.
They are that close to each other and yet they won't be able to save him because of the amount of
Uruk-Hai. And there's an element of immersion to that, I would say. But I don't think Endgame
necessarily needed it. It's just going to be a problem if it feels contradictive like a character
is in this place and then suddenly they're in this place and you're like wait how do they get-
Yeah and that does happen though. I think so yeah. I think that would be one of my criticisms. It's one
of the lower down criticisms but it's still there. Yeah. It makes the twists and turns the battle that
come up later all the more satisfying. But how does this easy to grasp geography make the scene
more satisfying to watch? Well here's one example. While Aragorn and Gimli are exposed on the ramp,
they are ordered by the King to retreat because the barricade has been re-established. But now,
how the hell are they going to get out of there? They have a solid wooden door to their back and
an army of orcs to their front. We feel genuinely worried for our characters as they seem to have
no route of escape. Then Legolas appears- I do have to admit this is kind of funny because
Theoden's just like get out of there. It's like motherfucker hell.
And the idea- You got yourself in that spot you can get yourself out. The other thing being the
fact that that door does get barricaded, it does get re-fortified but it gets broken open about
30 seconds later. It's just like oh rip okay. Up above and throws down a rope saving their lives.
And this right here makes for a really satisfying beat in the overall battle. And part of the reason
this save by Legolas is so cathartic is because of the audience's comprehensive understanding of the
geography. They know that moments before Legolas was repelling the ladders right here on the
battlements. So this is comparing a battle where geography basically doesn't matter at all.
Yeah that's basically what I meant before. It's it's not necessarily tied to the plot.
If you drew the a big square and you said this is endgame's battlefield Thanos here, gauntlet here.
Our many heroes scattered everywhere. This is like yeah I guess we just need to get the gauntlet.
Whoever can do it. That's the geography. The thing is when lots of your characters can fly
as well. Like you're dealing with completely different constraints. Like in Helm's Deep you
know everyone can just move on the ground at walking pace. Like it's a different battle. It's
less chaotic in some ways. It's more orderly but endgame's never going to be like that.
This is the problem of I don't necessarily think the criticism naturally
doesn't really apply in a very significant way. Like I said I can agree that there is
a misunderstanding of exactly where everyone is but I don't know how important that is compared
to something like Helm's Deep. It makes complete and perfect sense that Legolas is in the right
place at the right time to save their lives as all they have to do is run along grab some rope
and then throw it down. Because the audience completely understands where everyone is and what
they're doing it makes every beat of the fight more satisfying. But here's another similar moment
in Avengers Endgame. So Black Panther gets hit by Thanos so then Thanos charges in to finish the
kill when Scarlet Witch flies down from the sky to save Black Panther's life. But there is some
I don't think Black Panther was going to die. Yeah I don't think so either. She just shows up.
And when you're writing a scene like this if you had said who can save Black Panther's life,
assuming he's about to die, who can save his life? I'd be like there's a lot of characters,
you've got freedom here because they're all in different kinds of fights all over the battlefield.
I would be satisfied to see potentially a lot of different people come in to save him. Yeah.
It doesn't breach anything to have a lot of different people try. So like I would actually
argue for the there's more freedom with the endgame fight to have characters be in certain places
because of that. There's more people to choose from yeah. And are you going to say it was not
satisfying? People adore this moment. I think it works particularly well for Scarlet Witch that
she'd be the one that's chosen though because you know she had a scene very similar to this
in Infinity War where she was trying to protect vision and she couldn't do it. Whereas this is her
redemption. Hell you could have had it so that Hulk and her teamed up to beat him or something.
I just want Hulk to have his moment. I think horribly wrong with this beat in the battle
because for some reason that moment in Helm's Deep where Legolas throws down the rope is
cathartic and this moment I'm sorry you cannot describe this moment Scarlet which is non-cathartic
people were talking crazy about this. I loved it. I thought it worked really well. She's
she almost looks like a villain doing it. She's such a badass.
Yes he's just filled with rage at this point. She just wants to kill the shit out of him.
Like people love this. What do you mean it's not cathartic at all? Come on.
Game isn't even half as satisfying to watch. And why? Until this moment when she comes down
from the sky the audience has no idea where Scarlet Witch even is on. Right there.
Yeah. Right next to Doctor Strange.
The battlefield. There she is. Little handy poos.
What I'm advocating for is that she could turn up in any of these moments because she could fly
around. Yeah. And as a result of this poor understanding this moment has zero foreshadowing
and when you reveal any form of twist in the story with zero foreshadowing it always has an
interesting way to use the word foreshadowing. I think I guess I just I think that he means like
reasoning rather than foreshadowing. That she would be able to be where she is.
Because it's not foreshadowing if someone who can fly lands fly somewhere. Yeah that's what I mean
it's like it's weird to call out foreshadowing. Yeah. Maybe I have to check the definition again.
It does. I mean the moment of cats in America lifting Thor's hammer was powerful but it would
have been nowhere near as powerful. I disagree. If you cut the Avengers Age of Ultron scene out
the endgame scene is still hugely meaningful. You don't need the Age of Ultron one. All you need
is Odin saying he who be worthy. All you need. Yeah. It was cool that we had this in Age of Ultron
because it was like oh wow. Yeah it helps. Absolutely helps. And you could call that
foreshadowing. It's like this is this is a strong moment that implies something might happen in
future or whatever. But yeah you don't need it. We have never had that moment in Age of Ultron
when Cap nearly lifts the hammer but no one else who tried could. And that concept applies to
everything in storytelling including those little moments where in the heat of battle
a character leaps into itself another from a killing blow. When you provide no foreshadowing
at best your twist will be a meh moment that evokes little emotion in the audience. At worst
you can't say that. Fucking people went nuts about Scarlet Witch. Stop saying that. I loved it.
There were people who went nuts about Leia flying through space.
Like not even I would say it's not satisfying. Like well I guess I would say it's not satisfying to
me but audiences there were some people out there who thought that was amazing and I was just like
I'd rather talk about it mechanically you know because like you can't make definitive
statements about how satisfying it is for an audience.
It will feel like lazy writing and the audience will feel frustrated as they feel like they've
been cheated by the fact that you pulled a mini deus ex machina. And why are you
how is that a deus ex machina. I just realized he's talking about deus ex machina and he didn't
focus Captain Marvel. She is literally the greatest example of a deus ex machina.
She had a film created this. Yeah like why this. It's not his life's not even in danger.
He's got a vibranium suit. He can run really fast. He has an ability to blast people away.
How is it. I don't understand how it's a deus ex machina that you have two characters who are
established to be in the same location essentially on different sides of a battle meeting up to
fight in a battle. Like they're here. We've seen them both here. They're both clearly here
opposed against each other in this battle that's happening. She doesn't come out of nowhere. She's
here. She's a character with a very strong reason to seek Thanos out. Yeah she wants to fucking kill
him. She'll just focus Captain Marvel. That was the easy one because not only is she a deus ex
machina by definition like a fucking god that comes out of nowhere and saves everyone's lives.
She absolutely turns the tide of endgame entirely. Like she's the reason they win.
This will feel frustrated as they feel like they've been cheated by the fact that you pulled a
mini deus ex machina and saved your character's life in a totally unforeseen way. I mean this
moment of Scarlet Witch coming to Black Panther's aid you could have replaced her with literally
any of the other characters who are on the battlefield. Yeah anybody who's not currently
you know busy with any other kind of personal moments with anyone else. Yeah like that's the
freedom you have. Yeah that's why I would say they did take full advantage of their climax.
There is lots of different things they could have done. They did a couple of them
and I wish there were more. Could have been better. The idea that you could have had Hawkeye save him
because Hawkeye was just saved by Black Panther. Again I'd have been like it's kind of satisfying
because they back and forth with each other. Could have had Thor electrocute Thanos again
because the surrounds like yeah that would make enough sense. Anyone could do anything to him.
Ant-Man could be like you want him you're gonna have to go through me.
And I don't know how though you know what I mean like there's just loads of options you can have.
It's just more satisfying to have heard there's a lot of people because she hates him and he killed
Vision. Wouldn't it be great if Ant-Man just stood on Thanos there. I just love to see that.
Really screwed up because we'd be like oh dead. That was anti-climatic. An anti-climatic.
And e-climatic. E-only as much sense because of how poorly this moment was set up.
And that wasn't set up poorly. It makes sense in every way. It makes so much sense.
She has more reason to be there than almost any of them outside of the fact that they all want to
save the universe. There's so much. It just makes sense. It all fits together.
Is a really damning thing to say. Now for those of you out there who are long time
subscribers of this channel you'll know that I hate being just a cynic. I hate to just criticise
and not provide something constructive. So today let's use the Avengers Endgame as a case study
for how to craft a really epic battle. So let's go one by one on the issues we've identified and
oh here we go we're gonna we're gonna have a big blast of all the things we've gone through.
Is ready. Oh great. High a fix to them so we can outline an improved version of this fight.
All the while learning a few things along the way for our own writing. So problem one. This battle
lacks a sense of progression. You are wrong. You are incorrect. All we really have in this
scene are two armies in the field punching each other until one side gets snapped away from me.
All we have in Helms Deep is two sides fighting each other until one side has a Gandalf.
Existence. So let's take a page from Lord of the Rings book and say that the Avengers aren't
meeting Thanos in a field rather they are defending a location. Let's make it a siege. So how about we
establish a- And then they just have them get obliterated by his ship again. You can't have
the ship if you want to put them in a building. Great. He's just trying to make this into Helms
Deep. You can tell. That's a good battle but it's not the only way you can do a battle.
Wait for him to accidentally say the rig instead of the gauntlet.
A few things first in this new battle. So first we're going to change the rules ever so slightly.
In order to use more than one infinity stone you simply need to use the infinity gauntlet. If
anyone even tries to hold more than two stones at any one time without the gauntlet- Does he
mean more than one stone? More than two stones otherwise you could use two. You can use two but
not three. Three's too much. Because the soul stone and the time stone seem like you can just hold on
to them because it's not like their power isn't power based. But okay let me listen to that again.
I guess one he said that you can't use more than one and then he said you can't use more than two.
Parade into dust almost immediately. Oh wait sorry. In order to use more than one infinity
stone you simply need to use the infinity gauntlet. If anyone even tries to hold more
than two stones at any- Yeah so he said you need more than one you have to use the gauntlet.
Try to use more than two it'll die. It's like so you could use two without the gauntlet. You can
use two. I think that was just a mistake unless I'd be really confused as to how that works otherwise.
Does he mean like maybe one per hand? I don't know. Maybe. Any one time without the gauntlet
they evaporate into dust almost immediately. Let's tweak the story just a little bit and
say that the gauntlet Thanos had commissioned by Peter Dinklage is the only gauntlet in existence
that can hold all of the stone. I prefer that. I think it's kind of silly that Iron Man could
just make a gauntlet like that. It's like wow. All right. They took it off Thanos body after
Thor killed him at the start of Endgame and that is the gauntlet that Hulk used to reverse the snap
and let's say that just after Hulk does the snap Nebula as she does in the film lets Thanos through
the portal but then tries to steal the infinity gauntlet and the Avengers manage to partially
stop her plans as they take away the infinity stones before she can get the glove. So before
this epic battle has begun the Avengers have all of the stones and Thanos has the only device
capable of using them and the second thing we establish that's going to be a weird scene
to have it be that they get all the stones out of the gauntlet and she steals the gauntlet.
You'd have to be like when their motivation to take the stones was the fact that she wanted the
gauntlet especially considering now they can use the power of the stones to prevent them getting
the stones and we're talking about a series of heroes against Nebula. Nebula couldn't beat
Captain America so it's difficult to write that but maybe. Existing in the future is a paradox
forget alternate timelines and dimensions this Thanos being here is a complete paradox however
how the infinity stone um not necessarily if you can't just forget alternate timelines though
that's the whole thing yeah I don't I don't think it's para I don't think people's problem is that
there was a past Thanos it's that the past Thanos that they they decided to bring a past Thanos in
who was inferior to the Thanos we had before. I was gonna say if you're gonna go as far as
fixing all this stuff then you may as well fix that yeah well maybe this is maybe this is his
premise and that uh that will you know whatever they do is gonna create the will stop the the
the stones from protecting him from the paradox in which case he'll just blink out of existence
I realize now I don't like tweaking because it just raises too many more questions stop it
Those are enabling that paradox as they are from his time if the Avengers can manage to repair
the time machine that Nebula destroyed then send the stones back to where they belong I'm sorry how
do you repair that it's been obliterated by the the ship you can't just take a screwdriver to it
then the paradox will be rendered impossible and Thanos in his
the paradox will be rendered impossible isn't it impossible by definition
what paradox is right unless I'm fucking up my terms
no I think you're right kind of like the paradox isn't supposed to be able to happen because it's
like uh it's like something that contradicts with itself you know it's yeah it's like a self
contradictory thing so in the logic of this the stones are somehow allowing us the paradox to
exist regardless just because they're they're that magical well actually I think it says here
that a paradox is seemingly contradictory but what it's investigated or explained it may prove to be
well founded or true but so whenever people use the term paradox they're trying to establish that
the thing shouldn't be a thing right like by the logic of a rule people say it would create a
paradox so that can happen yeah that's how people use it generally yeah because yeah because I would
say you are technically right in that we say that thing shouldn't be able to be there and it's like
but it is there like right so you know you can't necessarily call it impossible but
creating paradoxes is not a not necessarily something that no one considers that a good
thing it's not good to create paradox
good good to help line I really didn't do it but epic
with no memory of the event in effect if the Avengers send the stones back in time they win
the battle and all of a sudden we have an improved premise Tony and Bruce and Ant-Man are in the time
machine room desperately trying to repair the device all the while Thanos and his army are
sieging the Avengers compound trying to reach the time machine before it can be reactivated
does that I don't think that works though because the whole you have to yeah they have a huge ship
yeah the ship would have destroyed the room if that was their only goal so you have to
get rid of the ship now no it doesn't work and already this idea is a better one than the one
we got because it allows us to have a strong sense of progression as Thales's army beats the
Avengers and gets closer and closer to the time machine room you know helms do you just want
something yeah it just wants something to breach for some reason it's weird because of uh like I
said he referenced battle of acids they don't do any breaching that until right at the end which
like I said it barely counts it's a shame that it has to be so geographically constrained for
it to be I guess worthy of being a worthy progression of a worthy of being epic
you gotta admit endgame was an epic game a moment
and the second problem we identified this battle is not enough of an
wow how do you even say that not enough of an emotional roller coaster man oh uh oh that's a
big no from me so it's a big huh from me because how do you even establish this when you have
thousands hundreds of thousands of people watching this and saying it was incredible
and hundreds of thousands watching it and saying it was crap I don't understand how you can be like
you got to change this this can't be the argument you know it's whatever the other yeah
emotional roller coaster we spent too long focusing on hope when we should have had a
spent too long focusing on hope what
I guess I guess he's saying there's too many hopeful moments we didn't but like it's supposed
to be a fuck yeah moment the whole fight is supposed to be fuck yeah right up until the end
where it gets like oh no we nearly lost two oh no we won but we lost tony
and the second problem we identified this battle is not enough of an emotional roller coaster
we spent too long focusing on hope when we should have had a better balance with why does it have
to be an emotional roller coaster anyway I'm not against emotional roller coasters I just
I wish he was more than have to be one specific about what he means exactly like
there wasn't enough feels it's like I'd have to disagree
um but yeah you could have a very clinical battle scene as in like fights going on people losing
and winning but no actual preference to the side I suppose and it could still be very much
entertaining what I'm trying to I'm trying to remove every element of emotion assessment but
I mean you wouldn't want to do that necessarily what most people would like if you get I'm almost
advocating for the character moments again I'm like oh that's somebody brought up as like
whether he doesn't want so I like him I love him it's like I don't necessarily I don't care to see
a huge group of people casually shooting blasts a whole group of people compared to watching
Iron Man and Spider-Man meet up on the battlefield I'm like oh fuck yeah why why should I care about
one group more than the other necessarily you know I mean in this case obviously we want the
good guys to win but it just meant that what's like if you take Star Wars is a good example I
don't care about the rebels the resistance so I just don't care if they die so how can we fix that
well firstly let's add the idea of Captain Marvel destroying Thanos's ship then being teleported to
another galaxy but also how about we alter the story a little so Black Widow actually survives
her trip to acquire the soul stone and is there at the final fight so then don't take away this
amazing thing I really like that scene I like it so much heart-breaking scene where maybe she
sacrifices her life to save Hawkeye or Captain America but that's what she does security feed
and he sees her die and he just breaks down crying we already have this but they do it
in a different manner he gets told about it and he punches the ground he throws the bend he's
pissed off why are we doing what are you what are you advocating for but then something snaps
he just breaks he boils into a complete total feral rage the likes of which we have never
seen before unknowingly Thanos had killed the person that Hulk loved the most and as a result
made him more angry than he had ever been before wait Thanos killed her no oh wait hang on so he's
saying in his retcon she doesn't die in the moment with Hawkeye she dies later but like how
we need to watch it again I think but I guess so yeah I'm actually kind of I kind of fight here
this battle is not enough of an emotional roller coaster we spend too long focusing on hope when
we should have had a better balance with dreads so how can we fix that well firstly let's add
that idea of Captain Marvel destroying Thanos's ship then being teleported to another galaxy
but also how about we alter the story a little so Black Widow actually survives her trip to
acquire the soul stone and is there at the final fight so then we get this heartbreaking scene
where maybe she sacrifices her life to save Hawkeye right so he's saying she dies in the final fight
um and then Hulk gets really mad about that and rages against Thanos okay
I see like doing something in the final fight like him getting enraged somehow but there's
other ways you can do it yeah I don't know if you want to take away this in order to feel that
because this worked really well you don't need to have her die later you can have you just need to
tweak the dialogue in different ways to let the audience know that Hulk blames Thanos for her
death regardless and then like we've been saying this whole stream we wanted we wanted Hulk to
have his moment against Thanos he has motivation regardless of her but yeah throw it on the pile
sure I agree yeah he's he's upset that she's dead we don't need her to die in the battlefield for
that if that would be too contrived for me that he survives the whole soul stone I don't even how
do you tweak that by the way does Hawkeye die I guess Hawkeye would die no but they were saying
she has to sacrifice herself to save Hawkeye right so someone in the final battle yeah because Hawkeye
wouldn't be here so they wouldn't have the soul stone so this breaks down and it's not you gotta
have a really long talk with Red Skull and get him to love you and then throw him off the cliff
so maybe he's proposing two different characters have to go get the soul stone which means that
we lose a character in place of her yeah there's a lot of ripple effects from these changes that
we have to account for um yeah you don't need that to have Hulk's moment the fact that
Hulk could have had his moment in Endgame there was his very small tweak and that is
throw him into the scene with Scarlet Witch you have two characters whose lives have arguably
been ruined by Thanos's existence you could just have that be their connection they both fight him
um I I could work by all Captain America but Bruce is watching the security feed
and he sees her die all right because in his vision Bruce is working on the time machine so
he has to see it from inside the science place even though he's supposed to be trying to fix
the time machine this is better than what we had this is better than what we had he just breaks
down crying but then something snaps he just breaks he boils into a complete total feral rage
the likes of which we have never seen before it is like the idea that they have this monitor
that's just scanning through the battlefield following random people and it follows here
the moment she dies and Bruce is like no it wasn't he complaining earlier that there was
too much character wins and losses why would they focus so much on this then
maybe he's about to explain the Hulk doing that fuck something up or progresses something in some
ways had killed the person that Hulk loved the most and as a result made him more angry than
he had ever been before at any point in history and Thanos accidentally unleashes the true power
of the Hulk that he'd been suppressing all of this time so then Hulk charges onto the field and
massacres his way through Thanos' forces in this epic switch as we get the tragedy of Blackwood
but I thought it was bad to just go through goons oh this is so hard to follow this truly sad moment
then the gush of hope as Hulk tears through Thanos doesn't sound like a hope scene that sounds like
a vengeance scene like bloodlust like oh fuck here comes Hulk and he's pissed this is forces
in retaliation the more you fill the battle with moments like that the more gripping and
I thought you said that we needed less of those yeah exactly
exhilarating that fight gets but also let's take another page from Lord of the Rings so a great
beat in the Helm's Deep Siege is Gandalf where he says he's going to fetch reinforcements for the
no you can't count stuff like this if you're not going to count before the portals yeah
we we we know that bringing everybody back with a snap means that they would show up to fight this
we know that just like it's set up in the Lord of the Rings unless he's talking about the moment
where you hear Gandalf's commentary during the fight if you remember he says they play it replay
it he's like look to my coming yeah out of the fifth day and they show the mountain maybe but
that's just to remind you of something that they've already done I was gonna say what use is that
without this scene upcoming battle and he says to Aragorn midway through the film look to my coming
at first light on the fifth day I guess he's referencing it look to the east then at the very
height of the Helm's Deep Siege is the enemy has near total control over the fort and all hope
seems lost we see the sunlight of a new day spill through the window then a few minutes later the
cavalry arrives on the hill and charges in this glorious hope-filled moment as the final beat of
this battle yeah it's almost like uh one move that just saved the day yeah it's like the portal
showing up oh like a snap well how about we take the portal scene and just move it to happen a
little later on in the fight so immediately after nebula steel was the gauntlet and the Avengers
begin their race to build the machine dr strange teleports by with spider-man and the rest of the
guys from titan and promises further reinforcements he says that he'll go around and muster
yeah but the point is now you're just coughing that fight I was going to say to have them all
at the same time the whole point is to get them as an army instead of having them come in at
different times joining different ways Avengers assemble with thousands of all of our heroes
like that was that's the challenge as a writer you're supposed to generate that moment you can't
change all of that that was like the I'm probably you'll probably get it out of the
rusos that that was like the thing that this whole film was for that moment
every last soldier he can find but you can't just snap your fingers and have an army come
all oh you literally can in this universe this is a gauntlet that does it at once organizing
such a force takes time he says yeah but he has the time from the moment they snap to the moment
the portals arrive which is a good like 20 minutes or so and remember when they were snapped they were
already at a battle they were already there in battle gear Spider-Man says Doctor Strange is
basically like hey welcome back we got a fight to go to they're just like what it's like yeah
Thanos invading Earth let's go okay that's what they told everybody yeah it's like yeah because
they just they just appear I guess right back where they were which was a battlefield they got
snapped away during a battle yeah I mean for them lot it's very doable they're just like okay let's
swing from this to the next one give me two hours then teleports away to gather the troops oh come
on it's he got the idea is that he got Wong and a bunch of other teleporting people to do it all
with him he doesn't need two hours come on then that way when the battle is well underway and
all hope seems lost Thanos is knocking on the time room's door and Cap is facing him down
ready to die we see a portal on the hill then several more and before you know it and as they're
all coming through Thanos just finishes off cap he's like well I'll just start on them as soon as
I'm done with you Doctor Strange is back with the reinforcements that he promised in this incredible
it's like you said he's literally trying to recreate how Steve
like this is Eomere getting getting getting off getting Eomere and the Rohirrim yeah I don't get
his point with this he just wants Helmsdee yeah we can do this with any film probably
the title of the video Avengers Endgame how to turn it into Helmsdee
hope-filled moment in the middle of such a dark one where the Avengers have been all but totally
defeated when you have it in this way you still have the same portal scene but you place it in
the middle of this well structured dread and hope-filled story it makes the scene even more
powerful than it already was as it serves as another beat in this epic battle but then just
as the whole MCU arrives in the battlefield in this glorious moment Thanos dispatches of
Captain America gets the Reality Stone then the Time Stone and adds them to his gauntlet so now
sure we have the whole MCU arrive as much-needed reinforcements but Thanos now has three
Infinity Stones on his gauntlet I'm sorry just to stop this is better how yeah I don't it feels
just like a bit of a fan fiction now I'm like okay these are your ideas there's some things that
don't quite work there's some more questions we have it could work better it might not work better
I don't know this feels a little bit weird I've just said you're like okay this is what you want
to do yeah yeah all right wait for him to be like the last time he had I was just gonna say like
three stones describe someone there's a couple more fights he gets another stone couple more
fights he gets all the stones just before he snaps them someone gets it going off him
and then Tony snaps I'm assuming he'll end it that way still the Avengers didn't even stand a chance
could I have Peter be the one to do it maybe Peter does that thing that kind of makes up for him
losing his cool in the first movie and have him I don't know shoot his arm or do something that
kind of you know is a callback to the last movie who knows yeah also there would be so many videos
that are like Avengers endgame how it ripped off Lord of the Rings yeah we'd be like oh no at this
point that right there is how you structure an epic climax to the largest franchise in human
history not with five minutes of punching a generic CGI army until that's not what happened
now and how do we sign off this epic battle every battle needs an apex so what's up oh no he said
apex oh no it's simple we take that fight we got in the film of Thor Cap and Tony versus Thor Cap
was knocked the fuck out I guess he's back no and we simply shift it to take place in the teleport
room right at the very end of this climactic battle so this is the true climax of the film
when every other Avenger is defeated or too far away to help we see the three original Avengers
the last line of defense take the the three original Avengers that's not a thing six original
engines yeah okay now Captain Marvel uh uh my way just forget it's Thanos to decide once and for
all the fate of the universe so now when Thanos is hurting Thor and we get this moment where the
hammer lifts and Captain America kicks Thanos's ass with it I mean that moment in endgame was
already exceptionally powerful but now wow then don't fuck with it don't don't don't fix it
everybody broke new context when it comes at the true all hope is lost moments the true all hope
is lost moment because yeah because Thor dying fuck that we don't give a shit about Thor
I don't think I need to tell you how unquestionably epic that would be
stop saying that
that is the reason why I was so disappointed with the end of Avengers endgame because that
right there was the climax that we should have had and honestly what did we actually change in order
to get this vastly improved you changed a lot a lot yeah you changed a lot you removed the Black
Widow payoff highly you've yeah that's kind of a big deal you completely altered the battlefield
uh you've you've changed all the mechanics with the the gauntlet like yeah you've changed a lot
of things man good version of the battle well it's simple all we did was make it so the Avengers
were defending all we did was make it so that it's a copycat it helps team is this all the
way just yeah just worse sending a location rather than just meeting in a field we gave
Thanos a very feel this the location and it's not about defending a geographical spot on the map
that's not why you're like that's not why all bad all battles don't revolve around defending a set
point of dirt it was it's funny because like you if it was here i'd be like why are you obsessed
with this and i imagine you'd be like i don't know i feel like it comes deep dude it comes deep
and location that he slowly works his way towards achieving and we complemented all of the positive
moments of dreads and when you know that we could have had that it's such a crying shame that we
were left with the one week i i i think we know the answer i was interested in rescuing
ed game in different ways writing wise i would not start with yours i'd be like i just go from
go from the slate black slate gods am i right or am i wrong if you were in the place of the russo
brothers how would you have done this scene i'd love to know what you think in the comments down
i wouldn't have idly done it i would have i'd have to like sit down yeah i'd want paper in
a notepad or something and with and not certainly not by myself but with other people and nothing
but bouncing ideas off of each other i'd want a board group i'd want loads of white boards
i'd want loads of papers well they gotta be why they gotta be white boards blackboards blackboards
blackboards blackboards we got a lot of blackboards from wakanda and we're gonna find out
how to make the best story we can we can open and we're gonna tell everyone poke as many holes
in this as possible until until we nail it down when we take breaks we'll play miss monopoly yay
i'd love to know what you think in the comments down below anyway thanks for watching and i'll
see you guys next time on the closer look okay the closer epic look all right should i just comment
wrong that's not very substantive for tier you need to say epic at least seven times
epic epic epic epic wrong epic epic epic epic um you know we did it all right that was that
was that video that was you know i don't think it's a very good video but he seems like a very nice
man and i hope that he has uh luck in the future for this channel because um i like the idea of
trying to get out there and criticize endgame because it was definitely beloved um it can be
controversial but important uh i think he he he had some interesting ideas about how to improve
the the battle i don't think they were necessarily the correct ones but um yeah i mean if he wasn't
so wed to the idea of helms deep then he probably would have come up with something better
uh what what do you have to say rags
about what specifically video what's your conclusion i mean i just don't agree with
his view on how battles work yeah what he considers important and what he considers to be
the most meaningful facets of how a battle functions and the relationship to the battle
part to the character moment parts is i just i i just wouldn't want him writing a battle for
the final battle of events just like the priorities are all as skewed just everywhere i don't know
whether it started itself there uh i don't know yeah i mean as he as he admitted himself the two
major points are there needs to be a sense of progression and there needs to be more emotional
investment and i man i don't know how there ain't no emotional investment in the endgame fight
because i was fucking crying man it had me it had me by the heartstrings that's kind of
where i'm at like if anything i just wanted to be longer to fit more things in um because they
didn't waste their time a lot of things happen really quickly they don't even spend that long
on the big everybody fights each other moments if you know what i mean yeah so it's done quite
quickly it's bad i mean i'd be curious how long the hawkeye uh soul stone black widow scene goes
on compared to the final battle yeah yeah also imagine this fight without that like section with
you know just badassery everyone fighting together like dude it just jumps straight into the
character stuff that thing just feels lackluster feels like it needed that
sad woman i thought you said this guy made a video called why thaw is the best marvel movie
the first door apparently uh oh i'd be interested to see why oh well we could always revisit mr um
yeah it could be later yeah it could be later if he's
he's just really you guys suck like whoops sorry we just want to talk about stuff
um yeah we're at we're at four hours i i really desperately want to get through some memes we've
not done memes in a while yeah let's do it let's do obviously both for tier and critical drinker
if you guys want to leave if you'd like to get on with life itself or hang around for the funnies
it's completely up to you what would you like to do i just say for a little while i have to go to
bed soon good uni tomorrow we're in a lightweight yeah i'll probably stay on for another half hour
or so and then finish up there i think yeah all right then the same bring in jay if if both of
them leave i'll happily bring in jaded look at some memes he's probably going to be another
bunch of them if he wants to he's probably asleep i don't know he's a weird person trust jay
he made a video on steven universe gay is that i mean that is pretty gay talking about apex gay
things instead of just random gay things um all right so this is just a random collection
of images so who knows what we're gonna get this is this there's like 30 of them and then i got
some videos so um first is it's like efap 50 memes so i gotta get through as well
i sat there efap number 50 and all i got was a stupid rhino milk not true rhino milk isn't
stupid yeah there's no such thing as stupid rhino milks impossible see what i mean about
relevant memes to jay cast it into the playlist watch it it's actually insane he hasn't watched
those i know makes me disappointed to know him he's very he's very specific with what he watches
isn't he yeah he'll watch the crappy netflix tv show yeah he'll he'll play that shitty game of
thrones browser game this is like a character i'm not sure what game it is someone in chat
soul caliber six right oh there you go um five six you can see the iron crosses on my jacket and
extra credits told me that pretty much means i'm a nazi um that's pretty neat oh yeah
got the old black going this thing grace is very sexy again weird collection you never know what's
gonna happen i just got another jimmy big geode this is this is a deep reference to his work
uh he'll know exactly what it be oh i get it
and we got some more i know about the geode action poses for this this character
they're not nice like i should sue them can't be taking my license like this fucked up
you don't seem like the rapier type well would i have a sledgehammer or a rapier in what context
i imagine you'd have like a spear or something because you're the long man
yeah this is what we're covering fat man's thing he said i don't really care about his content
i based my perception on the twitter persona i guess that because i don't have it because i
don't have a twitter so i just don't even exist in his mind this is ubs plea this was brought to you
by you ocean man it says it's brought to you by an idea i stole from j
usually yeah so this was uh people were talking about ladders for ages that i was just like
having rewatched community recently they have this this joke where they have a classroom that's
that the class is titled ladders there's no context to it he just draws ladder after climbing
ladders good shit that's community this was when we were like imagine them having to choose between
deleting me or rags his channel i can't remember the context for this anymore so a while long ago
but i did mention this meme specifically choose one i checked my email man i'm still waiting on
youtube to get through this review for my monetization like i'm still waiting and i was
ready the day that you made your video too all right everyone oh sure you oh yes you did monetize
he's playing runescape no no his video is he's trying to get his video re-monetized
yeah i when mauler released his video that was the day well we both finished our videos on the same
day i'm still waiting for it to be cleared for youtube for like monetization i'm still waiting
wow yeah it's been like a week and a day now that is really unusual to take that long
um yeah this is this is i guess a father slash mother sent me this on twitter that they were
while they were taking care of their baby to watch a new fap in the background can you see it
it's amazing the kind of multitasking here i am watching my infant while also on my laptop while
also playing runescape while also checking out semi-fap this one little more disturbing
uh i don't know what to make of it really again sense what oh my goodness is this uh this is
what's with the ball gang on the right hand side they play it i guess while torturing people
i don't know makes sense it's good to know that we're good background filler for torture yep
we don't listen to efap we just play in the background during our torture sessions jay
posting question marks jay if you had any self-awareness you'd know you've been added
into this call but no you're a stupid man a terrible terrible stupid man shame shame
speaking of which you got a mauler j crossover meme here jay is reaching for log objective
criticism and he says your body is long i'm like i sense you require assistance oh how did you
because that occurs so frequently apologies this must be tiresome i've accepted my role in society
hello log being from shed
yeah this is that's been floating around on reddit uh it's not even that much of it has changed
this is a wonderful meme from i like these alien memes i really i like him this is when the pipe
yeah the chat's there too the pikeman describing his wonderful tale to us oops
yeah jay oh is that from the efap 50 yes terrifying that was some horrific stuff
and yet we survived it yeah how did this channel don't get banged after that
i don't know i don't know how everything doesn't get demonetized on efap to be honest with you
um youtube is secretly on efap side so bane gently caresses a rather uncomfortable man and
brown table saying ah yes a deep metaphorical meta narrative on the death of the author and
the continuation of the middle and the dawn blessing captain plank with his presence and
interest equals sexual harassment say it's fair brown table is an interesting way of judging stuff
yes he does i said this interesting is one way to put it fucking we need to cover the video where
he says it but it's just fucking movie bob's been put into this and a quote from movie
baht what a movie baht video it's not just that they don't understand you it's that they
intimidated they were intimidated by you and not only are your bullies wrong you can make them pay
for it jeez it fits so well oh god really it fit it fits bob to a t
bob's terrifying something he is a psychopath luckily he's fat and unhealthy and he lacks
you know what right that's a favorite that's too small to read uh i can zoom in you can you can
you can control your middle wheel click on it with middle mouse button control mouse wheel better
control mouse wheel yes control mouse wheel no just mouse click no mouse wheel click it
i just tapped down on my mouse wheel yes it's way better well no if you tap on something with
your mouse wheel click it opens it in a new tab and it'll be at its full size no no no i'm talking
about uh tapping with your mouse wheel to zoom in on something instantly it just makes it bigger
we don't you don't have to scroll control mouse uh where control mouse so if you look at an image
in your browser you uh no not control just press down on the mouse wheel and you zoom in
i'm pressing down on the mouse wheel it's not zooming in maybe we have different things because
when i do middle when i click on something with my middle mouse discord it opens the full size image
right on my browser yeah i figured it would worry at that point and then from there if it's still
too small control pull down control then oh yeah then you can control and control and scroll yeah
anyway you got brown table if i point out the themes would die that it would be extremely
painful you're massive for you we're actually very pro themes here dun dun dun i love themes
the theme of efap is love this one could be oh god i'm about back some absoob whoa god i'm gonna
fix their wagon oh wow something that pulled some pranks in my time two bad reviewers and it's
clearly me i don't get it he's saying that you and eric are bad reviews no there could be that's them
just righted me me and the skull no the skull you know the dog's name is rags i don't know the name
of the skull eric what's the name of the skull i'm not getting involved jack
i guess i'll just take it down oh i like old stuff do they do they read out all of those
super chats because if we send them enough they can read all of this out and we can make it real
i don't know that they stream do they stream jack streams this was actually a
smileer owls me request
totaled's face is so good like he's really trying to read what's actually
oh totaled's face this is perfect this is adorable i got this on on twitter
oh that is very cute long man coming you look like reverse giraffe from rick and moyie oh yeah
i remember that where would he introduce himself he's like i've got a long naked legs oh the short
legged legs that's the one um this is uh live footage of james more providing the switches to
um this is uh live footage of james more providing the switches to the epap podcast
oh it's gold
this is just a small one apparently i would be the sniper from tf2 objectivity gun
oh
that's the picture from the gorilla's parody picture oh yes yes yes yeah demon days
this is from meme repositories that he can't make videos just yet but this is
to show what's to come this is like movie poster goliath saga i would go see this
oh why did i just say goliath goliath has many visions
it'll be mirak cynic snacks and jay it's horrifying
c goliath is a red pug c goliath
c goliath
this is fucking great they just said there's no context
oh that rags is dirty
i'm just uh clearly trying to make a statement about orphans i think
disgusting you know what this this this content or media is but i hope it's not loved
sorcerers everything two seasons we're still waiting for rags's monthly throat for their
monthly thrust yeah i don't uh i i don't have a monthly thrust yet i think it has been a month
surely if you're on his patreon you can go back and look at the previous monthly thrust
yeah i did well i there you have to his previous posts are months back
i mean isn't it worth it for a thrust ring i haven't gotten one thrust yet
but if you go and look back at his old posts you can see his previous thrusts
yeah but you gotta go back so far wow rags too much effort to get a thrust i never thought
i'd hear you say that i want a fresh thrust do you remember this right oh this one's great
he's after seven and three dreams because they're bad at fractions
i appreciate this wonderful meta there it is
this is a request from jeremy i think he was saying about the future of fast of the furious
uh and he wanted someone to make it
this is right dinosaur
i think we have another one of them here as well but this is where hello burrito just did not
understand massive as a criticism poor man you mean jamaican well it's jamaican that sounds
racist j why would you say that i don't see an image here yeah uh this this image cannot be found
really yeah yeah i i see and i see it on the stream though so there you go i'm not massive
i'm big boned nice i like this one a lot
what makes good rap was so good the ads are finally provided to us oh yeah the favorite
part about that is it's close enough to being a normal meme that people are going to start reading
it and like then then realize that they don't know the references and again like what the fuck
gain fans through it oh god how big is this one oh i'm zoomed in i think
um oh that's hard to read not if you have zoominess so oh no we're
uh drunk rags i like those six hours ago in b-time we're gonna have to grapple with the moral
implications of people creating six spots of an brain like this one seven out of three people
who are shit at fractions i just looked at a picture and thought it was moving
are you sure you're okay you don't seem to be making my sense objection i like i like the
chat is a character like chat is an actual person
oh man no i'm fine i'll tell you but i still need the only person who could judge it's us also
drunk rags that's a different character yeah drunk rags is defending drug rags is a different
person i'll construct it oh my goodness this is funny this one's interesting you got um
like they've created like a texture to spread across like a ship in a game oh that's beautiful
the ign yamato as it was historically and then is the ship saying what have i done
was that rags i'm not sure sorry japan not too bad here i guess thank god no one can see this
in-game oh that'd be a shame gonna commit seppuku now i brought great dishonor to the emperor
but that looks like it actually is a thing you could do does anyone know oh will the warships
i like there's the fucking zootopia thing on this
that's the i do enjoy certain art imagine a battleship rolling up and it says hello all my
in beta throwing soup at luke loud soup loud soup loud soup this one oh loud soup was amazing
creature observer says it was i like these alien memes i don't know they're called but
every time i see when it's amused me i guess this applies now to a closer look as well
got quinton being like how should we respond to efap patrick williams says classify them as not
real reviewers uh jack says long man bad tiara says take them up on their offer and debate them
on live you just throw it out the window by quinton i mean this is the interesting thing is uh
fine meme we get all kinds of different results we're asking if they want to come out or not
this is a reference to hello greedo's tie fighter i guess what the fuck is this shit our new type
oh that's in the background it's them yep stormtroopers in the background
i was just pointing at it like they want it to die
that's great i like the one
this is actually hot off the presses i was just sent this
by several people actually including rags himself wonderful piece of art
also terrifying in a way because of the wall colored black and white um
rags what do you think as a as a proportional drawing
um i spent ages that was too lu with an arrow pointing at your ass maybe it is
and then it is lud that is lud no it's lu with the d being an arrow lu to lu it is lu i guess this is
more memes about how he jokes about joseph starlin being an american citizen who's like patriotic
oh yeah i heard this was a thing i had no idea on this ligand joe joseph stallion
it's so like why why him why joseph stalin
dnd like use of expectations ryan johnson's like yeah they're like how many times
like i like four or five times in a movie jeez he's like you gotta pump those numbers
the rookie dub is i myself submitted expectations at least twice every seat
and they don't stop coming this many people will find offensive because they like plank
as in from ed and eddie oh yeah plank
the bit of fan art
hey oh that's that's pretty oh that's not on a whiteboard
isn't it is that done on a whiteboard uh that's that must be really big looking at the size of
the i feel like that's felt on paper no this is paper yeah this is felt on paper oh this is like
sharpie mm-hmm nice light sharpie oh there's another edit and eddie related meme for us as well
i don't even care about the context i just like it i'm the longest one rags is almost wearing
yellow i'm off lasted by this well you watched that ed and eddie obviously so you should know
of course yeah but i'm just you know for people who haven't
it's a good rat you remember that he just he just opens with a trilogy trilogy
did someone do that just for this i don't know i don't know where they got that up from but it
it definitely looks like brown table so maybe somebody else's i can't remember if he made judy
hops he could make himself little wolf badge on the on the objectivity yeah it works we travel
the world i'm cropped very well
squinted reviews
oh that's stratum ire uh uh that's crazy good shit yeah he's actually insanely talented
but i told rags about this but i've been reminded because i clearly forgot
that the asylum you go to in outlast it's called mount massive asylum mount massive really
wow it's where we live it's efap hate the talks have taken 52 efaps to get that sent in
why that is crazy it's a it's a deep meme jay well massive what massive wasn't always there
from the beginning yeah is it an asylum of massives yes i think so by massives
oxico veg in part three the last temptation of taxon
there's so much there is so much happening here i like my tutu
a two-fisted fantasy that will keep you riveted to your seat until the final radioactive wheel
um
i'll go wrong with fantasy um
i'll go wrong with tonaled references dr tone billion billion percent certain people hurts them
more than those they hurt that's totally something he would say
a billion percent certain people who hurt people it's the more that those
this is uh obviously an alternate version of the new star wars movie that they plan to release
i think that's better i'd be more invested elevator music just need the
what action figure did they pull that from oh you know i have a whole line
she figures now if you guys have seen this i thought it was funny
what were they thinking i don't know he thought it was so cool man they must have thought that
was such hot shit the world's most impractical weapon so there was literally speaking it must
be pretty hot there's a super chat for bohemian rhapsody someone put this together quick
oh beautiful
oh my days oh my days
oh yeah this is uh that new horror film they're gonna bring out about me it's like a biopic i guess
oh no this is the fap in the top
oh god are we gonna have to watch slender man for efap movies oh we should do that i've heard
it's really bad then we could say the don original film association with efap productions
and music by kyle ban in collaboration with florida why florida oh yeah what was it i think i
think fat man called me a basket of twats was it a twat basket a twat basket that was it a basket
of twat unless he unless the basket is made out of twats well that's what you're thinking
of a bunch of molar heads in a basket is it twat or twat twat twat twat is the weird americanized
vision where they can't pronounce it properly it's weird because there might be a bunch of
vajinkas in a basket though how could vajinkas vajunkies this one i wasn't even saying it's just
jay showed me it and i was like rags is in it therefore efap meme that was really cool
what are we doing i got what are we doing like a like is someone holding a cane down there
i think you're biting someone's groin because like that's a knee next to it right yes i think
you're buying a groin yeah who knows you know i mean gotta stay in character i guess maybe
they were gonna draw that and then they gave up and just start drawing jay oh yeah that makes
sense to me um it could be that's a good character rock
seems massive couldn't hear you call
molar try to explain to a person what objectivity versus subjectivity is
assuming they haven't blocked us beforehand i was gonna say most people who blocked me have
blocked me before i've spoken to them that's what's so sad the still from a new movie that i want to
see oh yes
do you remember staff like weapons
i love when they got the handle on a gun
oh and it's the lever of the death star that's like a star
it makes sense this one i don't know if this is an original efap meme but you've got
you got sam neil in there which is relevant to the allen memes and of course luke must be because
it's a rhino no it's a space rhino you're right the rhino should be enough to say there's gotta
be an efap meme i love it regardless surely beautiful looks entirely written you don't think
someone's out there stealing our memes b cell value on efap memes is through the roof dude you
can scalp efap memes as well you gotta protect our memes our memes i can't steal our memes
or can you i know next episode so you got bigidious i guess am i saying do not avert your
gaze or as bigidious i think
the bigidious is saying do not avert your gaze to you maybe and you've got george willhelm
frederick hygol is it he go i can't remember but um for all the things that pour forth onto
the earth god has only love but god is a stern judge of critics this hellish vision is merely
another side of that media you were born to protect and i guess bigidious is making just
right sweat as he says but it's a sin is a sin my child i will help you to free yourself with the
sin of the past um your love and courage must be praised but hygol silence you best if yeah you
should be following bigidious not not hygol hygol can't really again it's just let me just say but
maybe it's gonna say but hygol said da da da da or but hyg yeah but hygol says no silence you
massive i'm bigidious i'm the truth the way in the life oh yeah without a doubt speaking of
bigidious got a wonderful rendition of awesome power
i like the j in the bottom left jude noise ooh this finger looks
like a baguette you
i came up with that you massive oh if if carrot between bread sandwich
what's in the bottom right biggest something it wasn't going to be dickus
biggest dickus biggest dickus i can't tell yeah um
wait what's the speech bubble that's been crossed out this finger looks something useful
oh no i guess rags took that back i guess i didn't mean it we go the the original book
you can find bigidious's work from
on the nature of passivity
complete essays penguin classic i like that all the only reason bigidious ever became a thing
was because it was a font he didn't put a double space is all he had to do and he created bigitties
i just really want to print this out and put it around a book
someone's gonna do that now someone's gonna do it because it's possible
i do enjoy some art but i dislike some art too the duality of man is everywhere
that's a great quote uh it is my opinion that Carthage is to be destroyed in my opinion
uh having lived from 104 to 172 ad and writing in a professional capacity since the age of eight
bigidious was perhaps the most prolific critic of media of the classical era even millennia past
his wisdom echoes through the ages compiled and translated by professor of antiquities
bilgun bagelton this collection of essays includes such classic works as the subversely
pre-colonial metanarrative of medea why the hercules extended universe doesn't work
the Iliad and how epic poetry changed my life oh my god that's a really up-to-date meme
considering today's stream uh man how Herodotus histories subvert our expectations
what writers should learn from Julius Caesar my hot take on Aristophanes the clouds
uh Satyricon is amazing and you're all insane
uh how a sub's fables can make you a better boyfriend and many more
huh uh all rights reserved no parts of this book may be reproduced without permission to the author
printed in fucking austria in 2019 no rhinos were milked during the making of this book
all hail beggidious is galaxy brain this meme is written by antiquities an antiquities student
i like to believe that's true i can believe it like they do this professionally in real life like
like honestly they're just like no i want to invent big idioms
big idioms is real i mean he has to be this is probably another one of his works
philosophies of rat and beauty rat and beauty
from plato to heidegger yeah see that seems that needs to be from plato to heidegger to to
big idioms one part they might this is uh in reference to rose being like the apex orphan
he is drawing the bone density from the orphans on canto bite i believe
sorry fin but we can't bring any of the orphan slaves with us they're all just they'll just drop
dead you see they have limited bone density separated but if you draw it out of them you
can come the apex orphan oh man yeah it's grim but that's reality what can i say yeah we don't
make the rules shockingly and uh i don't know if you've seen this before right but it's you playing
monopoly i'm not sure yeah real monopoly or mis-monopoly oh yeah shit probably i have money
so it must not be mis-monopoly oh shit right true i guess people really liked what you
made the color of monopoly i guess because it's another monopoly one and monopoly i'm always the
hat i like that picture are you so are you a gamer and monopoly i'm all the hat i like that
um another rendition of my spooky self
i just like all the styles that come in but i'm just pretty spooky
yeah it's very spooky and yet i'm such a friendly to them right guys right very friendly very
friendly i would never disagree i love you despite the artwork being amazing rags explain
your issue with this artwork oh jesus it's just a unicorn i don't know it's just a unicorn
it's it's the unicorn from the puppet man's story it's just a unit it's just a unicorn rags
was actually very on board with it i was enthralled so i don't know how this scenario would come to
be i think it would if anything would be the other way around rags would probably spook the
unicorn with his willingness to um engage in activity of any kind it would be a friendly
gesture still fucking awesome uh one of them the renditions of of us going into battle i assume
plenty of references i like the oh this one bringies a plague doctor who floats and throws
potions i assume he's gonna have to adopt some of that if he wants is goliath in the background is
that what that is three eyes might be i'm sorry got rags his glasses are falling off
got the pikeman and uh who's who's on who's just above the pikeman pizza man is that it's like is
that a pizza oh yeah that is the pizza it's a pizza he looks like an orange man you see his
shut up let me see his his see his crusty top you can see his little mustache as well
uh um
and they're on they're on cj that makes sense because wolf is to the left of me
oh yeah yeah awesome shit also the sword that pikeman is holding is theoden's sword i believe
it looks like it's the same design it looks similar yeah it does look similar wonder if
that is the case or not um writing i guess he's writing cynic snacks too this one is fucking
awesome so you got efap 50 how do we awaken er 101 you got that's bullshit is enjoying a cup of
emotional toke look even emotional coke no emotional coke that rag i'm having sloanald coke
and wolf is going some classic tonal coke tonal i guess i think i have tonal coke as well and
then you got er er was he was faster when he was slower access power
and then we pour on to him just writes video on korra and he goes nuts
oh this is great i love the faces i love the faces i like it i like how that's bullshit's
just a weird neck and this was actually the thumbnail of the previous one because i intended
for us to talk about it in that episode but yeah we haven't actually shown it so it's just
really awesome fan work that's gorgeous um that's a good one of it and it yeah like i said it's in
the thumbnail for the previous efap so it made it to thumbnail town how neat is that thumbnail
town is a coveted place in meme hood it's oh very few memes ascend to thumbnails thumbnails
hail thumbnail all hail thumbnail this is really good i really like this for an actual show
these two quirky roommates how do they think through the day
it's mauler and rag show but their boiler is broken how will they deal with that
whoa what wacky wacky crazy antics will ensue as they try to fix it this week
mauler looks dead inside in fairness what video are we covering at the time you know
that that that'll really determine the context um yeah that's actually it uh that's that's all
my memes we went through them all all the meme pictures anyway now we got meme videos so again
i would like to offer a critical drink from fortier if you'd like to eject and you can give
yourselves um yeah i'm probably gonna i'm probably gonna buy right now i think well yeah i shall
eject as well before you leave well i i guess you are you interested in mentioning your twitch
channel for tier are you going to talk about how you're eventually going to make a youtube
channel will you review things yes i'm totally gonna do that knew it i need no mentions i'm just
a friendly bystander it was wonderful to have you on so hope you enjoyed thanks for inviting me
end game yeah no problem um and then as for mr drinker you like to talk about your channel
while i just spam it in chat for people to click on and subscribe thank you very much uh yes um
you probably wouldn't know it from the way i'm talking on this efap tonight but uh i do drunken
reviews of tv shows and movies and occasionally video games and i like nothing better than tearing
a showdown um or a movie and yeah i've done a few recently that seem to have been quite popular
and probably the next thing i'm going to do because i'm really getting sick of um being negative about
everything i'm going to try and find something good to talk about something i actually enjoyed
so helmsdee i'd entire video about helmsdee that could be it specifically about the progression
though yeah what we all can learn from helmsdee and the epicness absolutely of the whole thing
yeah helmsdee was one big epic gamer but no thanks very much for having me on the chat tonight
it's been it's been good fun and uh yeah best of luck to you for the rest of the the evening
thank you very much i think we'll be great you have a fantastic rest of your afternoon
later too sir yeah we're almost into tomorrow noon tomorrow noon yeah that's eight minutes away
all right see you later guys goodbye
what an idiot faggot you can't say that why not jay why not massive you have to use more colorful
language like what kind of idiot is he he is a massive idiot do we have to use more epic language
yeah oh yeah you should have said only the most epic insults you should have said go away now
you should have said go away no he didn't do it go away now get lost i must do some drinking
if he's listening to this which is unlikely come back into the corner and say go away now and
then leave do it go away now get lost no but mark yourself scarce yeah what the fuck is happening
we're doing the voice he does wait what's he said he left the call why is he there
oh no is he i'm still in the group oh um well we're gonna kick on anyway we got four people
in the watch together whoever's doesn't want to be there hopefully they figure out how to i'm not in
i'm not on it you're not massive enough what's wrong with you jay like i i pay you all this
insane amount of money and you just you fuck up constantly it's actually from lord of the rings
uh what's the word like when you don't have it more like board of the rings the ring
all right there's the link now we've got five people in here according to watch together
either way you guys ready for some meme videos no that's too unlucky for you actually actually
no because i want to use the lube this is already so like such high quality meme image
i feel i just i need i need i need to i need to use the lube and also i need to grab another drink
so i guess that leaves me and jay what do you want to talk about jay you will do that you
i will be away only for a moment trying efficient purity i'll talk about cheese
cheese yeah i don't know is that what you're into i i don't watch your videos i like i like a good
bit of brie uh mozzarella those are my favorite cheese you like brie i don't like it oh i get it
i saw her in even though i like her in community she's in community where is she in that yeah
complete i rewatched community relatively recently and i was like oh my god that was here the whole
time i did not remember that he's just this like smaller character who uh is quite the funnytisms
in a way she bounces well with with our bed and it just sucks but you know what i already said
that i thought she was good in i stand by that have you seen room yet no wait the room no room
either way the answers no rags you back yet
well you just made a bunch of gobble noises for no reason god damn it that's just that's just his piss on
me
so here at ravelies i watch the video rags isn't here yet
a second he's recharging we have been live for nearly five hours not bad
i'm not even concerned would you know why i'm like we'll do an hour for mean videos probably and
then two hours for super chats and that won't even be close to the 12 hour limit i'll be fine
oh you are not getting through the super chats in two hours they always take longer than that
well that was a guess i don't know jay why did you bully me like this
it always exactly thank you rags he's a true friend i'm i'm always here for you mauler
whenever you need me through thick or thin day or night winter summer spring fall autumn everything
in between and even seasons that aren't on that list but exist it has been declared by quinton
that you are best friends oh yeah we are best we argue with that i can't argue quinton quinton
knows what he's talking about anyway this is called the equalizer two part one theme i guess
this is part one of the meme we all want you to know none of this is a person i have to do some
posing because this is clearly i'm gonna boost my sound too what you do what you become is not my
concern in the world is full of so-called men like you and in a perfect world the sad place i haven't
seen equalizer two so i can't actually talk about the context for this meme they can make
both ends well that's kathleen kennedy and that's mickey mouse and that one uh oh that's you yeah i
seem to be threatening them in some way i think i think your head is on backwards
i know have you seen these last few star wars movies i was gonna say it makes sense she's kind
of a witch yeah she has the power to do such things yeah we're just on the same we're on the
same wavelength everything we do comes with the price but in a perfect world people do bad things
you're lucky you get a chance to
set it right i'm going to assume the equalizer guy kills all these people at some point
maybe like that would make sense to me what did you see the no he kills he kills all but one
to make things equal it's one and one uh i just want to say maula did you see quinton
unlisted his contra points video after she got cancelled i believe it's currently listed
i don't think so it was unlisted earlier you say earlier you're talking days or hours
yeah it's still there it's been oh he so he relisted it yeah i remember seeing him comment
about this so basically he unlisted it because he thought that it was a bad video in general
and then he relisted it once she got booted off twitter because he didn't want people to think
that he was unlisting it because he was canceling her
he has an interesting train of thought he really does quinton's a fascinating person
why did she get booted off twitter you don't know because she said something sensible
jay you're not up to date on the meat i'm not i've the last thing i heard about her was she said
stuff about pronouns that made people annoyed that was it that was it yeah and she got booted
off of twitter for that yeah and people have called it her getting cancelled which i think
for it to be canceled she'd probably have to lose a whole bunch of subs right that's how that works
yeah she there was there's been a great deal of backlash um for her commentary which is she
didn't say anything in reason a lot of them say like this is a long time coming she says a lot of
naughty things oh no very impurity tested out of the club yep they will come for anyone they want
they're coming for you next jay even contra points oh no but most of the time it goes unpunished
this ain't one of them times the mistake you made was you killed star wars so he killed
stalls yeah i agree with that i'm gonna critique one of you and the only disappointment in it for
me is that i only get to do it once i get to do it more than once makes sense oh jay jay and ryan
they they wanted to make good stuff they just couldn't that's the that's the happy narrative
oh critique deep critique why is rags a little girl
yeah at work
man yeah so this is gonna be a i was gonna say because clearly nobody's getting killed in this
scene so i guess to be continued oh no part two calming soon calming soon oh no
so thor's thor shammer oh this is thor hammer guy his new logo is that instead of this
it's shammer yeah it's this is thor shammer well thor sham nice nice stuff
uh thor shammer
abba that's hilarious old toxic brood
good start guessing this is is this using cam footage
yeah i think this was gonna gonna cut several times right the big collection how could they
it's they're all orphans
lay on those you're watching movies wrong you're watching movies wrong you're watching movies wrong
stupid you're watching movies wrong you're watching movies wrong
i love the the the editing but the message is clear honestly the editing makes it better
yeah it does yeah the fact that it's cam footage you just cried they gave they gave
quinton to thanos that's actually you know oh man quinton he kind of looks like thanos
don't know what to say about that is that you try to make fun of him you try to praise him
you try to just we've got like pretty wide faces with let's let's see striking features
what was it just words they coming toxic ruining oh no
i feel like this will probably get it with copyright as well
massive it would make sense to them
that's pretty big so was that bit
came from the heart
waiting for more like punch lines i'm just like where are you i'm gonna find you
10 star wars episode nine rise of sky war that's not what i expected
you literally will not believe and easter eggs and details you missed
so so this version i'm just hearing random parts of your videos that's you in my ear
popculture.mojo this is the intro of my quick bit parody video
you missed in the star wars episode nine trailer
i guess you're black panther j how's that how are you feeling about that
uh i'm fine with being black panther oh wait they might make you capture falconish
i don't know why was there a frog croak oh fringy because it's fringy
because he's a green man are they made him black panther that's racist
wait so who's jay then
oh he's playing it's like the original track all the music for the movie now i see
okay we spoon them in can spiders are there you go yeah all right you're spider
moon i'm so happy to be spoon them in uh i'm probably scarlet witch
the croak sound again
they're all croaking they're frogled people
a metal southpaw jay long bonus valkyrie oh hey wait so who's rag's gonna be
who's that goliath oh maybe red eyes
oh wow oh
it's because it's bad oh oh my god
doesn't mean it's bad because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad he said that
that's a quote the voice clip has not been altered in any way because it's bad
doesn't mean it's bad oh my god robot head
what is it about seeing total chop to save us is so satisfying
i have a feeling this is absolutely gonna get copyrighted because of the music i'm trying my
best yeah let's hope it stays public allowed to anyway hello there ladies and gentlemen
the fucking all those pictures to stay accurate
the toxic brood behind him mauler was able to defeat the pay for army acquire the infinity
stones and use them to destroy reader response also planning on using the
stones to eliminate all orphans but the dawn and his greatness talked him out of it oh
dad the dawn used the infinity stones to make orphans lovable
this destroyed the stones it's not even they were powerful enough to do this
the dawn survived however jade tripped on a geode and died before the battle even began
the cosmic chicken could have revived you but he didn't feel like it
you drive to quinton jack same trish taxa just right patrick h williams
so you can have the pleasure of unsubscribing
that was a d-fap video yeah that was the middle of the screen now
so um that was gorgeous how about catching up with so good uh with spooda wars last time oh yeah
i think what the context for this is that is spider-man fans saying i'm wrong about spider-man
and shad is like on my team but wouldn't you i've not ever understood the continuity of spooda wars
and yet it's so entertaining you shut this down you've not seen this yet right the fact that you
said so sincerely the continuity of spooder war it's so sweet it could be difficult to follow
though you could tell a lot of work's been done to image bass what are you doing
mola you are drunk but yeah you haven't seen this movie right rex we need to watch it no no
i can't let spooda die neither can i
what the fuck are you doing yeah it is okay i don't understand what what it would represent
in relation to the spider-man debates but i agree fuck i'm sorry
fuck i think it's the only of the one clearly saying that
what the fuck chad
spooda men stop this madness
spooda men stop this madness
i thought you sword-wielding kangaroo then i'm sword-loving kangaroo
sword-wielding kangaroo
don't even beat me
pausing for safety now i'm gonna make sure you never spooder man again
fucking d-rex sounds
well if you were just after a tasty meal
that satisfied you it was good what shadow's okay with saying that homecoming is a decent movie
as is
so he was thrown into the death star is that what happened shad why did this shit
there was no other way but shad died
i have no idea what we're talking about memes over here either it's all a joke or none of it is
we're good
what are you doing
spooda walls is very hard to interpret as you guys may be aware i don't just know exactly what's
happening last time i'm on spooda wars number 14 i'm done
so if shad died i don't remember this happening yeah he did die then watch the memes
oh is he gonna go through the whole collection i'm gonna have to pause a lot with this one
this would have taken ages
am i a lion man's daughter i think so
so press f for shad in the chat like why did he die he's not actually dead
his voice is in the wind
there was no other way
where's the rest of this video gonna be
a week's letter
we have been seeing reports that the rise of skywalker is a box office bomb
more so than solo however rights are starting against the people who did not want to go and
see this shitty movie however their leader quenton reviews disney's biggest chill is forcing down
oppression and taking hurricane katadaka closing in yes this man is trying to force people to watch
a movie but lucky for me i saw the film and i thought it was the worst film in the franchise
even worse than the last jedok
i watched this movie twice
oh i i was thinking like will shad be resurrected to talk about her tizumi sword
you gotta have it happen i'm pissed
bad wait why oh of course because sardada cast news alex
as much as i hate star wars quinton's forces of darkness are corrupting star wars there's nothing
we can do it's forces of darkness fault i drove smolah away he's the only one who could have stopped
quinton yes
was a hero i just couldn't see it he was a thief a criminal make me want to watch spider-man
he stole my suit he's a menace to the friendly neighborhood efap i don't think anybody would
ever refer to us that way but hey a friendly neighborhood efap internet i want that wall
crawling a nazi
died everything
is a film about space wizards intended for children no it's not
it's from obsessive nitpicking for its own sake it's shallow to the point of meaningless
has an active film criticism to oh my god stop it you are literally murdering the concept of culture
how brain dead do you think people are oh right oh you should be more concerned with
this this would have taken a lot of work creating art that is emotionally resonant
in something that is like intellectually satisfying so why didn't they use hyperdrive
all of star destroyers from the fleet oh my god the memories of that fucking debate
yeah i i don't know i don't know
oh
warriors things are objective facts that can't be disputed by anyone you dip shit
none of us are warriors we are geeks online to talk about
funny quinton we don't even disagree with you there but stop acting like you are warriors
there's no place like efap here's the thing i fucking hate mauler
that's the sound of one of the things in drastic park again i'm pretty sure it's like
lost world i want to say where they're chasing them my drastic world sounds no drastic park
sounds are going off in my head fuck you you're not making a good script here you're literally
being a dick and that's about it you make it very hard to like you that an explosion sounds
what
good luck future um so this is the history of efap part 11
one of our most this is the one i was told i wasn't gonna like i don't know this is an ongoing
first off mr mr sheave himself everyone knows what a fucking y-wing is anyone that's watched
star wars knows what a fucking y-wing is it's been here since the first fucking movie released 40
fucking years ago fuck the editing's tight though yeah a little creepy sheave
i'm curious what the world the context would be for right for rags not helping bring down
the helicopter and me trying to stop wolf from flying away with a helicopter i don't know
i think if she wants to be try doing something very important
oh it's true
nano
who's got the white
he's got to end brutally at a moment
get you
right when you fix this Tool
I am drugs E aw dammit
Fuck that!
It can't trigger as well.
Fucking Avengers theme thing.
What the hell?
Oh my god!
The fucking shared universe of the memes.
Piece of the eighth helicopter.
Blew through the window of Jay's nearby house and hit him right in the gay and he died shortly after.
Jay is the caddy of you.
You don't want Jay!
You don't want it.
Bruh.
That's pretty funny.
This one's from NtenHaku.
He's done quite a few of his fucking greatest episodes of Simpsons being turned into a defense.
Oh yes.
Rido Bilge.
Rido Bilge.
Oh, I know that guy.
I know that guy.
Woah!
Look at that!
Look at that!
All the memes.
The memes will come to collect.
Hey, hey, wait up!
You know, come on, you fat.
What was that highlight?
Jay was seed flying in the background there.
Did you see that?
What?
Hey, wait up!
You see that?
No.
So at 16 seconds, if either of you want to fiddle with it.
Also, I'm at 15 right now.
Ah, you know, come on, you fat.
Oh, that's what that was.
Yeah, wonderful edits.
The sounds were so, like, well chosen for that.
Ooh!
Ooh!
Coherent ramblings.
Rags versus Jackson and Patricia Tax and eFap meme.
Infinity War is admittedly a kind of unfair example.
Moolah really does phone this one in.
I'm also going to step out of Ragsis there.
Oh shit, I realized that's probably copyrighted as well, but fuck it.
The best one was The Last Jedi, obviously.
But the second best was Episode 3, Revenge of the Sith.
I like that one a lot.
He's wrong no matter what.
That's fascinating.
He thinks TLJ is the best and then Episode 3 is second.
What an insane person.
I remember us seeing that firsthand and just being blown away.
Like, how, wow.
Just because the character isn't smiling or quipping every five minutes.
It doesn't mean they're boring or unlikable.
They form a hero with a list of personalities.
Yeah, what are they from?
They're from the series.
It's like RapBells of History.
Yeah, that's it.
Are they still going?
I'm assuming they are.
Probably.
It was like getting like tens of millions of views per episode.
I can't imagine it not being still made.
Re-larsen, wait until you get a load of me.
Oh no.
Any sex appeal you might have is beyond me.
And I thought that was really sweet.
It was a very, very touching message to get across to the audience.
Like there's this one video that just goes on excruciatingly in boring detail.
How he is a horrible character and how she's a boring lead.
It's, you know, it's mind-numbing.
Basically, Brie Larson is a bad actress or a bad Captain Marvel because she doesn't smile
or she doesn't show emotion or she doesn't have a character arc.
If you go onto the internet and search the most searched for Avengers on Pornhub.
Why did he include that?
Why did he mention that?
Oh right, you mean, yeah.
Because he's an idiot.
Yeah, I remember we pointed out, it's like that doesn't mean anything.
In fact, I feel like it's almost a dog whistle to people who are like, who are going to be like,
Oh my God, they're objectifying her.
Oh, can you believe that?
They want to fucking jerk off to Captain Marvel.
I was going to say, it's like it's a new movie that came out.
Of course search results for who would be higher because it's just on topic right now.
I'm curious why he knows that as well.
I wouldn't have even, I wouldn't have even thought of going to Pornhub.
I wouldn't even, I wouldn't have occurred to me in the slightest to be like,
You know what?
I need to check the Pornhub stats for this.
It's a weird.
How could it ever be relevant?
I wasn't Hulk, one of the highest ones as well.
He's got a big ass green dick.
That's probably why.
Who doesn't want a piece of the Jolly Green Giant, you know?
This one's called Not the Orphans, an eFap story.
I like my head.
I used to be an orphan.
I love that doll face.
The face of concern for the dog.
Oh, it's had some rags.
You got no mommy and you ain't got no daddy.
You're an orphan.
Orphan.
Orphan.
Orphan.
Orphan.
Orphan.
No, not the orphan.
What the fuck is this from?
Don't laugh.
Don't open your face.
It's from Black Dynamite.
Oh shit.
I haven't seen Black Dynamite.
I want to see that now just based on that scene.
Dynamite!
This is Bill Potatoes, Dom 2019 official special look teaser.
Very large official production.
We should have put up a trigger warning because this is quite emotionally rough to watch here.
Amazing.
The time lapse.
Very.
I like your smile.
I'm not smiling.
Well, then I got something to look forward to.
God, I was just thinking how much content people could probably dig from that actors with.
God clip.
So I knew that me drive and you can get in the back.
But I can help you.
Just let me.
No!
That's such a good feral face.
What you gonna do?
Just leave me out here?
Duh.
That scene unironically works so well to the tragic music.
Wow, it really does.
Wow.
Hashtag lock her up.
Hashtag.
That shit wasn't battery.
That shit wasn't battery.
Oh, that's nice to get one occasionally where it's like subscribe to J and not J dies.
You said that?
J dies.
It's called.
Corridor crew expose me.
So have you guys watched anything from corridor crew?
Corridor crew.
The guys who like the CGI artists react stuff.
Yeah.
Robert Downey Jr.
Just do this and like try to make stuff stick to it.
Stick to it.
So what they do is they have different levels of detail for certain shots.
I watched their Scorpion King one.
Oh yeah, that was great.
So they have the highest resolution, highest detailed 3D model of Thanos' face for all.
Yeah, there's a good payoff for this.
Like the hero close-up shots.
Patrick Williams.
I love his video essays.
I love his video essays.
I love his video essays.
I love his video essays.
That's from a movie as well.
Because they recommend Patrick Williams.
Also, I know this this song's used in Rick and Morty in there.
It's just the Evil Morty theme.
Yeah, yeah.
It's the it's by Chaos Chaos.
It's a bit extreme, but I mean, you know.
There was a big payoff in that for me because I'd seen that clip and forgotten about it until then.
Nick Fury as hell.
Is that like a personal attack or something?
Shit man, this is like super early Simpsons as well.
I have objective opinion.
Objective fact, my captivator should be a villain because of that stupid scene.
He left his briefcase.
Hey, it's full of themes.
It's full of themes.
It's full of themes.
I love how the recommended video is fucking the ocean bad one with rags.
That's if I recommended me.
What if the same craze?
This is called Efap 51.
Kylo Shapiro.
Kylo Ren.
No, the actor.
Kylo Ren.
Kylo Ren.
Daisy Ridley.
Yes.
Ben Solo.
Ben Shapiro.
Imagine if Kylo Ren took off his mask and he was just Ben Shapiro.
I'm Ben Shapiro.
This is the Ben Shapiro show.
I forced the fuck out of that.
He does have a pretty evil glare to him.
If your house is going out of water, just sell it.
Oh, that one's great.
Dart for Dart for Dart.
It's Thor Shamar again.
I don't normally do that. I'm favouriting that.
That verse, the emergence of Goliath.
What if God is tonal?
He just hatches.
No, don't make that happen.
Saying it will make it happen.
I want that to happen.
I want Fred the cosmic chicken to birth total.
Oh, God.
He just fell down exactly there.
This is Monster Hunter, which DLC thing, I think.
Leveling isn't some pointless piece of crap you have to go through to get the kill stuff.
This is the meat of the game right here.
I don't even have to worry about copyright, because it's a video game.
I think.
Yes, it's a video game.
Do you think Tonald is an orphan?
I don't think he was birthed. I think he congealed in a cave.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
Hello, all my n-words.
Belch.
I thought you did that just now.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!
In historic times we referred to him as.
Or is eating snacks.
The.
Goliath.
Goliath.
Eyes on Goliath.
Eyes on Goliath.
Oh, fuck.
Let's get this over with.
Oh, such a scream.
I'm both tired of it.
But you have to move.
It's a tale for another time.
These memes.
Calliope guardian of total.
Guardian of total.
It's called a space effap massive thrust.
How much thrust does it have?
One point two billion billion.
This is the sound of the little boat thing.
I think.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I forgot.
17 layers of helmet under his helmet.
17 layers of helmet under his helmet.
That's a fucking E-Fam gaming reference.
I like the rag, comma, S, apostrophe, apostrophe, S, apostrophe, Wolf and Bilbo are my A. Billion.
Thanks for watching.
To make up for this stupid shit, I left a link for a great book about space and the, that's
the, I don't know, I'll find out who it was maybe.
Oh no, the book about space.
Oh no.
Oh my God, the book.
Oh no.
Actually, I feel like it's a good book and it's a particularly good book.
Is that Chuck Tingle?
Yes.
Yes.
It's called Space Raptor Buttonvation.
The cover art is pretty amazing.
Yeah.
So I guess that's a nice drag.
The channel is a CG Rocket-tism dynamics, big, bassy fap.
This one's called Slown Old Feels Emotion for the first time.
Oh my.
Oh, this sounds good.
Crazy.
I can't believe there are people out there that have spent more than 1.2 billion dollars
in space.
How would you see this with no context?
How would he react to that?
He'd just be like, why?
I don't know.
I want people to send him this with just telling him to record his reaction, but don't tell
him what it is.
Oh my goodness.
Oh God, it's another.
How many 1.2 billion ones we have.
Oh my God.
It's so good.
Oh man.
This is an older one, but it's so fucking great.
It's so fucking great.
Have you seen Robot Chicken, Ranks?
I have seen Robot Chicken.
So this joke is the answer.
Oh, I already know.
Very clever.
Hello.
Hi.
Hello.
My lord.
My lord.
My lord.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
You're fucking the amount of times you've said hello.
My lord.
That was a really good one.
Yeah, man.
My lord.
My lord.
Go fuck yourself.
My lord.
Go fuck yourself.
My lord.
Go fuck yourself.
They even gave Jay a sad face.
Did you see that?
He was like, what?
It was Bilbo and Jay.
They've given you little sad eyebrows and a sad mouth.
I don't even have a sad avatar.
I know they made it.
It's amazing.
Poor Jay.
Did you just go...
I don't even know where they got left from.
That's really good.
They did a lot of work with the expressions.
That's really good.
Yeah.
They left the Empire to join the rebellion.
He contracted the big gay and died alone.
Nights of Eve, Fab 3 is in production, and Jay's gonna be in it.
Oh, my god.
Oh, my god.
Oh, my god.
I do have a sad face.
My lord.
Hello.
Oh, wait. It's repeating.
I just thought it was...
I thought it was a new video for a second.
Yeah.
Wait. You do have a sad face?
Where'd you get it from?
No, I was like...
I just saw it. I hadn't noticed it before.
And I saw it and I'm like, oh, I do have one.
So, it's a crime...
The video.
I've never seen this long to show this live on efap, and I apologize to plagued creations for that.
But it's got two animations.
Totally amazing.
I look forward to unlocking the dumpster pushing perk.
Well, you can upgrade the perk to either push small dumpsters further and faster, or to push larger dumpsters.
This dumpster is gonna take nine hours to push. Would you like to pay?
Would you like to spend gold to make it go back?
Here, Daryl, I know you have to push that dumpster, but...
If you give this little goblin some gold, he'll help you push it quicker.
Hi, I'm Randy, the goblin.
I'll help you push your dumpster to escape the zombies if you give me gold ingots.
Wait, I just can't get over it.
This is my favorite part.
This is so much wicked, man. It's so good.
I love the fact that they actually have Voxes as a puppet.
Yeah, they're all original drawings as well.
But he actually made a second one as well.
Oh my.
Have you seen this one yet, Rags?
I don't know.
Funnily enough, I think...
Yeah, Shad has seen this. He commented on this video.
I think I have.
That was the best example he could come up with?
I mean, it was a fine scene, but fine.
An actual visualization for me is him...
We're waiting in a room for him to come and sit down with us and argue.
And then we realize he's in the other room and he's just batting the shit out of this straw batter.
We're like, what are you doing? And he's like, fuck you, you're wrong.
We're going to come in here and tell us why.
No, fuck you, you kidding me? Shut up.
He just holds up the pieces of straw. You're already defeated.
You get to look at women.
Huh?
What?
I don't know how to argue this.
Old, crazy Laura Dern.
I die.
Should we just let chat respond to that one?
I feel like we don't even need to do anything with that.
Just feed it to the dogs.
What is the argument? You get to look at women.
That's almost sexist.
We have a button that sends him to the chat.
It's unfair. There's too many things to talk about how good this is.
Like, I don't know where to begin.
Oh, it's so good.
The pizza and the future telling spiders over there.
I'm assuming all those books have names that are memes.
I can't quite see them.
Bilbo up there.
Please make more, person.
They're so damn good.
He eats some dogs and I smile. It's great.
I love the, you're already defeated as he holds up the straw.
Look at that little portrait there as well.
Wolf and...
Is that rags or is that something else?
Well, it didn't adopt a kitten.
Oh yeah.
There you go.
Interview room two.
You're already defeated.
It's a really great drawing, eventually.
And yeah, just rags sleeping in the corner while we're at it.
It was a fine scene, but...
And I think rags definitely saw it as well.
But when I said feed it to the dogs, you have a little facial expression.
I smile, yeah.
Should we just let chat respond to that one?
I feel like we don't even need to do anything.
Man, I wonder what all those buttons are.
Go back to the buttons. I want to see what the buttons are.
Should we just let chat respond to that one?
We got...
Remove guest one, two, three, four, five.
Tism removal, rhino milk, in my opinion.
Spider-Man is coming out.
Increase video speed, pause video.
Random, begidious quote, the n-word.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
Boxing brood disposal.
Subscribe unbridled...
Oh, subside unbridled rage.
Elevated music. This is my favorite part.
Random billboard quote.
Emergency totaled video.
Sliced dice, good rat versus bad rat.
Bayowin draw this.
Consult spider oracle, super chat, starwalls question.
Summon Jay. Remove Jay.
High rags and decrease video speed.
Hello.
Yeah, that's just great work on both of those.
That's great.
Which brings me to all memes.
Wow. All memes.
Time flies when you're having fun.
I'm going to say, one of the ones I have, I'm sure I've got a whole bunch on Twitter that I'm going to have to collect now as well.
Sorry, Twitter entries, they will arrive next time.
Because it's really hard to get through all of them as right now.
Busitism. With all this keeping track of all my memories.
Either way, I guess it's time I should probably read some super chats.
We're at five and a half hours.
I'm guessing seven and a half hours? Jay, you think I'm being too hopeful with that idea?
Yeah, you'd normally take longer than that.
We'll be fine. We'll be fully fine.
You can survive it.
I don't know.
Oh yeah.
I've even got an energy drink.
Limitless potential.
Unlimited power. We can go for millions of hours.
1.2 maybe.
Yeah, well, yeah.
It's a bit of a crazy efap.
I feel like we've covered pretty much all of the things that make efap efap in this one.
We even had the gas guy come on, you know, during the video.
That gets to add to our trophy case of civil discussion.
The content creator we're currently criticizing. It is possible.
It was really fun having back on.
I'm okay with him coming back on. I don't know if you will. I hope he is.
I hope if ever, because he might listen back to all of it and be like, wow, they were mean.
We are mean men.
Fun to be mean, right, guys?
Um, so this is weird.
I guess it counts it differently, but it's the first super chat of efap 52.
According to YouTube is this is the last super chat of efap 51.
Oh, wow.
I'm guessing that someone stuck around for ages.
Because I think I think any 51 are pointing out that you can stay in the chat as long as you want and leave super chats.
So I'm guessing someone stuck for ages and just left the window open.
They really wanted that to be like, I am lost. God damn it.
Well.
Are you sure about that?
That's the super chat on its own.
Make of that. Oh, I am sure about that.
I'm absolutely certain.
I don't know what it is, but I feel very confident.
Hi, Rags.
Hello. Hey.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
What's up, lads?
We're having a great time.
Disgusting.
Noticed Justin Wang follows you on Twitter.
More thoughts on talking to him and seeing if he'd love to come on.
He's an awesome content creator.
I have no idea who that is, but usually on board for anybody.
Yeah.
You recognize that name, right?
I recognize the name.
Justin Wang.
Lala.
I recognize the name. Just Wang.
The Wang name, as some call it.
A bit of a Wang name.
The Wanginclature.
Objectively, is Rags still a queer?
Oh, yeah. That's a good question.
Yeah.
Will we get an answer to that question?
What do you think?
I decide, yes.
All right.
I decide who is queer and who is not queer.
That's my superpower.
Howdy, crew.
It's quite a power.
I have a fun issue.
Got to work on cleaning up my condo today.
Seems this bed bug's just finishing Efap 50 while doing it.
Hi, Rags.
Hello. Hey.
That doesn't sound like a fun issue.
Oh, bed bug.
What kills bed bugs typically?
Yeah, bed bugs sound bad.
Fire.
Oh.
New radiation.
These are radiations.
Well, that's an interesting way to go about the problem.
If you have a bed bug, then you want to really like you.
That's like a whole process of making sure you get rid of them.
You got to like leave the house while they take care of it.
Clean it all up.
Get the chemicals all done and good riddance to that mattress.
Rip math.
Do you guys know if face off remake is happening?
Why?
Face off doesn't well.
I mean, we're in that we're in that timeline.
So I don't I'd even bother.
Um, hello.
All my racially ambiguous n words.
Oh.
Pick J. Also.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Super chat didn't know how accurate it was going to be.
Oh, that was pretty premature.
Hi, Rags.
Yeah.
I haven't been kicked yet.
Hello. Hey.
I just finished the apex season two battle pass and saw the R 301 legendary skin has
a rhino on the front.
Gun milk.
Yeah.
A new Efap.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They got some good skins for it this time around.
A new Efap.
This is pretty good birthday present.
Thanks.
No problem.
Hello there.
All my R words.
How are you all doing today?
Just one.
I'm doing okay.
Yeah.
I'm thinking I'm doing okay.
Let's talk about end game Lord of the Rings.
Seven out of three.
Wow.
That's pretty.
That's pretty good.
Robert Pattinson will suck as Batman.
I don't know.
I'm willing to give him a chance.
I don't know.
Is that confirmed?
Oh yeah.
He'll suck his Batman.
No.
That was happening as Batman.
Yes.
Oh.
I'm ready to give that a chance.
I don't I think I don't think he'll necessarily do a job.
Like yeah.
Okay fine.
We all know that Danny DeVito would have been a better choice.
But it doesn't mean that no one else can do.
I'm in the battle.
Yeah.
It's currently called the Batman logic.
Of course it's called the Batman.
They have to add it there.
Sometimes.
Then again, I guess some people do the Batman in continuity.
I'll accept it.
I'll accept it.
That's how they did it with the animated shows as well.
It was Batman and the Batman.
Oh, the Batman.
It's like the predator.
One though.
This is a video about a way ago.
Detronos.
Episode six.
I see.
You know Spanish.
Oh.
Si, seor.
Muchas gracias, seor.
You tengo dos piscletas.
Ah.
Muerten pantalones.
Oh man.
Next one makes me sad.
Hey, molar and rags.
I watched anthropoid.
What's so great about it?
I thought it was.
Oh no.
I love the anthropoid.
Perfect anthropoid.
I love anthropoid.
Sorry of trying to assassinate a high ranking Nazi officer.
Why would you assassinate Nazis?
I thought they were supposed to be the good guys.
Sometimes.
Sometimes.
Some people thought that they were.
Some people thought they weren't the guys.
Those people were Nazis, right?
I disagree.
I disagree.
I translated it.
So that was when you going to make a video for Game of Thrones episode six.
When are you going to.
I let rags decide when I was going to release TFA part three.
So I guess it's up to rags again.
I'm thinking March 2021.
2021.
That's when you'll see it folks.
And then August 2020 is TFA part three.
That's right.
Enough time to get stuff done in the meantime, but still far enough away
that you can prepare for it.
It's really possible.
I feel like I should be the manager because I can make these kinds of decisions.
I don't disagree with that.
Yeah, Jay.
It looks like even Google is shilling for TLJ.
If you check the reviews, only positive ones are highlighted.
Even the negative reviews being higher rated.
Interesting.
Not surprising at all.
Yeah.
Especially with shenanigans.
They pull with Captain Marvel.
I just wouldn't go anywhere near stick to review as if you really want an
honest take.
Find find reviewers who care about getting getting the aspects right
instead of just saying, uh, I don't know, some, some weird sentence.
Like this film showed us what's wrong with, uh, culture.
Well, that's where we are right now.
It's like, we, I, this, this random person on the internet, I trust more than
these professional reviewer types.
Technically we're professional reviewers.
All three of us.
Ha ha.
Fight the power.
Hey raggers.
Hello.
Hey, after your world tour, pooping in pools, you need to get your dignity back.
Use this to buy Coke and Kit Kats.
So I would like to state for the record that I don't poop in pools.
That sounds like something that someone who poops in pools would say.
You know what?
It also sounds like something that someone who doesn't poop in pools would
say as well.
Which means they can't.
Do you think I'm the type?
I'm not the type.
I understand like social graces and things of that nature.
I would never poop in a pool.
He really doesn't.
I mean, what if you had your own pool and no one else was there?
That would be the worst place to poop because it's my pool.
I don't know what you enjoy.
I don't enjoy poop in a pool.
He does.
I mean, you'd say that.
Are you telling me that if you really enjoyed pooping in pools right now, you
just openly admit that to everyone listening.
Listen, I don't need someone.
I should never listen.
Fuck you.
Fuck you.
There should never be someone who tells you that you can't be passionate about
anything, even if it's pooping in pools.
I don't even know.
However, I don't enjoy pooping in pools.
Are you even aware of that meme?
I was here for that.
Yes.
Enjoy that.
I watched the stream.
I don't actually.
What do you think about Jay Guy Jay?
Wait, what?
You're watching the stream.
I haven't been here for the whole thing.
Oh, that one.
He's not great.
You're a better guest.
I'm the manager of eFAB.
I don't even watch it.
Good job.
Fuck it.
Whatever.
I recently watched the backlog of your Major Lee debate.
Holy tire smoke.
Those goalposts were mounted on race cars going in opposite directions.
Yeah, that's one for the books.
The Major Lee debate.
That was fun.
It was it was Major Lee.
Frustrated.
Mm hmm.
Very random.
What do you guys think of Pacific Rim?
I think it's poorly written, but every very entertaining.
Also, more.
Please adopt me.
I can't just adopt someone.
Stop everybody then.
They'll be asking.
I can't just do favorites.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
But I could agree with that.
I enjoy Pacific Rim, but I don't think it's very well written at all.
You guys reckon.
I think Pacific Rim.
Couldn't be bothered.
Here's the thing, by the way, on the eFap website, there's a section now for audio clips
to download for your memes.
Oh my.
And there's like a section for each person's audio clips.
You've got, you know, Kamala, Rags, Wolf.
And there's a section that says other guests, but all the clips and other guests are just
me and elevated music.
Yeah.
Efap.
Efap.
I have other guests.
Is in the description.
You guys want to look at a comprehensive website that just has all things Efap.
There's lots of fun little.
It's very well presented.
Efap.
It also says big changes coming soon, so.
I should have said massive changes, but can't be perfect.
Thoughts on getting Foxcade, another fellow video essayist on Efap.
Also, Unbridled Rage on Alien Covenant.
It deserves it so hard.
I don't know if I'll do an Unbridled Rage on that eventually, but maybe.
I need to watch it again, because I really didn't like it when I first saw it, but now
I need to watch it to see if I can get riled up about.
Patrick explains it.
Yeah, I know.
That's actually in the backlog of potential things to look at.
I'll need to rewatch the film first.
Also, Foxcade, not sure who that is, but again, we're open to a lot of different.
We were supposed to have a brand new guest today.
This is part of what slows us down with guests, is that I give a slot to a brand new guest
of interest, and then if they don't show up seconds before we start, then I'm lost in
terms of being able to have that slot for a new guest if you don't know.
I couldn't.
If you know what I mean.
So it's not like brought in Drinker and Fotier because of the I'm not saying I'm just saying
we're getting around to it.
We're getting there.
We're getting there.
We'll guess are on the way.
I'm pretty good.
I've seen his videos.
Why would you lie to me like?
Well, I've seen one of his videos.
Exactly.
I didn't even know he was lying, but if you just say it to people, sometimes they'll tell
you the truth.
He has a video on why Stranger Things season two is poorly written.
Well, he's right.
See?
It's 35 minutes.
That's almost a long.
It's almost a long man.
Yeah.
That's a medium man.
I was going to say, you could totally call that a long man in comparison to people who
hate long men.
Exactly.
I'm excited for October for two reasons.
One, I can watch season five of Peaky Blinders on Netflix, and two, I can watch Batwoman
and make fun of it.
Yeah, we're actually.
I'm a woman.
I was really sad about Batwoman.
I was really sad about it.
It's really sad about it.
What's sad about it?
Sadder.
Thing on birthday.
Forever your day that the day of your birth will forever be tainted.
I checked it because I was curious.
I was like, oh, if we do maybe any fat movies or mini for it.
So what is it coming out?
I was like, no.
No.
You just doxed your birthday.
Oh, I mean, it was already doxed.
Yeah.
Well, now it's double doxed.
I actually do birthday streams on YouTube.
Double doxed.
I would have doxed myself there too.
You were born on the 6th of October 2019.
Wow.
Yes.
You are a young man.
I know.
Well, in fact, I'm negative aged right now.
Oh, goodness.
Yeah, it's pretty crazy.
I can't wait until you're born.
You're broadcasting from the womb.
Comfy in here.
Really good reception.
I wouldn't have thought that.
I'm going to get good and drunk, then I'll be back.
Salad King.
I'm coherent.
That's the important thing.
Hello, gentlemen.
And glory to the empire.
Of course.
Long live the emperor.
He's coming back.
Yeah, I don't want I don't I don't want slavery or anything.
I'm like 50, 50 minutes.
I can see the good sign and the bad.
Death Stranding isn't embarrassing.
I don't care about Death Stranding at all.
I've been seeing some of these trailers and find them amusing.
I watched one with Fringy and Wolf and it was fucking hilarious because it's
like you have so many questions.
I just could not give a shit.
You just could not give a shit.
If you try and get invested, you're just okay.
So what is this?
How is this?
Why is this?
It's funny noises, funny things.
There are terrible dialogue.
It's like, oh, my God.
However, I'm not invested in it, so it may be amazing.
And I'm misunderstanding.
And I hope the people who are invested at the game they're looking for.
But my God, has he got a lot of expectations to fill, not to subvert.
Now, what happens when you just want weird shit and they'll be like, oh, it's so
great that it's weird and I can't understand it.
It's so quirky and strange.
I'm so excited for it, Jay.
I don't really know what it is.
I don't care about it.
Sometimes I think that, but then I realize I'm not actually a real person.
I am a woman because I want to play misbun now.
Hope that makes an appearance.
Ah, it's efap time.
Yep.
Seven out of three.
The cool one, not the British one.
Oh, hey, what's up?
Oh, they were referencing.
They want the empire to come back.
The cool one is in Star Wars, not the British one.
I get it.
Are you sure they were talking about efap hosts and they're like the cool one, not
the British one.
Oh, maybe they're talking about the efap empire.
Maybe.
Doing quite well.
We disappointed.
I haven't seen a kimit darkside meme, but with dark Ray.
I can't get over.
I still can't get over mojo homo.
I win.
Mojo homo.
I mean,
I am the mojo homo.
It's just supportive of abilities and powers he had.
It makes sense.
He would be an apex something.
I can believe it.
I can believe it.
Finally managed to catch one of these lives.
So take my shackles, you massive.
Also.
Hi, rags.
Hello.
Bathos is a term for comedy undercutting tension.
The MCU used it well, but MCU also may also be to blame for bathos being
misused so often.
Star Wars and it too are damaged greatly by awkward bathos.
Yes, actually.
And funnily enough, I believe that's the closer look video that I watched
and thought was pretty neat.
He blames the biggest problem in TLJ being the random instincts of comedy.
I disagree with it being the biggest problem, but I like the way that he
breaks it down.
It's a problem.
It is a problem.
Fucking that's for schnizzle bonking here on the head with the lightsaber.
Also.
Have a moment.
Hello.
Hey.
Well, I want to know what squeals fans think can make episode nine bad.
It's the cure to raise Mary soonest.
It's her being a clone.
They think it'll suck.
Well, that make her cured of her very soonest by being a clone.
If she's a clone of a powerful force user, then it doesn't like fix it.
But it explains some of it.
How would she?
You have to be a clone of Ray, right?
Like a.
Don't be a clone of like Palpatine Ray.
You mean like attitude?
How does that work?
I don't know.
I didn't really think about the words I was saying.
It's like you and you're like an ancient sith warrior who looks just like
Ray from that vision.
Is she a clone of that?
Sure.
That can do it.
Yeah, we go.
We did that.
Who's better in bed?
JJ Abrams or Ryan Johnson?
They work best as a team.
Also.
Hi, Jags.
Hi.
Yeah.
Who responds to that?
Well, I'll always respond.
Do you know why I'm asking if he'll have a four out of ten and plans to do
he's very didn't give us any time with that one, did he?
I want to get to this.
This bothers me in any way.
And the super chat's bringing it up.
We should bother you too, rags.
You hear us.
Did you hear what I said?
Well, we redo redo the super chat and we'll give it a listen.
Or do you know why MS gave Hill House a four out of ten and plans to do a
video on it?
Oh, really?
My reaction is he is wrong.
No way considered a four out of ten.
And he says a whole bunch of shit that I drastically agree with in his
video.
Disagree with.
Does the child actors were really bad?
So wrong.
Really?
I'm wrong.
Wow.
I thought they were really good.
Like excellent.
Considering their age.
Real is like amazing and like a day old.
Fine.
One of these days, you'll be a day old.
Yeah, I want to do a video on Hill House eventually.
So as long as he makes his first, I'll be able to press more.
The people the flaws of it.
Give this to rags for staying and surviving that live stream with the
Quantum God lol.
Oh, yes.
Oh, that was a rough one.
Yeah, I did it.
We did a live.
I did a live stream with logic on his live stream channel.
And it was it was something else.
It really was.
Yeah.
It was something else, man.
I only heard bits and bobs, but some of those arguments.
He was out there.
Right.
You survived.
Um, just says kiss me fat boy.
Well, Jay.
Beautiful.
Sorry, but no time for the usual.
Would you rather question today?
I'm too busy fighting Australian dragon snakes.
I've been at it for three hours and I'm not bored.
I have scored one point two billion points on it.
Oh, my goodness.
That's a lot of points.
Maybe make a horror movie fresh with zero CGI.
I'm on board with that.
But I really think that some of the best CGI stuff we don't even know is
very CGI's fault, but I really they're probably referencing the conversation
about it where a lot of its enemies are just big CGI monsters like.
All real stuff.
Cool.
Can we actually bring someone who follows Jedi religion and know their
opinion on the sequels?
There are people who believe who followed the Jedi religion.
What do they see the movies as like a representation of their religion?
That's like the Bible, right?
Well, Passion and the Christ equivalent, I guess.
I suppose so.
I guess they don't really believe it's real, hopefully.
And they're just like, oh, these are some pretty good values.
We should follow them.
Yeah, you know, I don't know anybody who has that as a religion.
I don't know what they would have to say about the movies.
In fact, I think that could be amusing.
Also, hi, doggy.
Hello.
Could you imagine someone doing like a review of TLJ from the perspective
that it shits over their religion?
And TLJ is anti-Christian propaganda.
Neither Tim Curry nor Bill Skarsgard have been in the MCU yet.
They play.
Tim Curry is not alive.
Bill Skarsgard, go for it, I don't really mind.
Maybe he could play Pennywise in the MCU.
I actually didn't mind him playing Itz, but a lot of people didn't like him, is it?
I think he was a part of the issues of those films at all.
I don't know.
Bill Skarsgard can play grown up Spider-Man.
There you go.
Would you rather be an orphan or have an orphan?
How do you have an orphan?
By dying after you.
Yeah, we went over this.
You have the child and then kill yourself.
Oh, I thought you meant like you possess an orphan is in your possession.
I buy just an orphan.
Yeah, you can buy it as well.
Yeah, you can buy their blood.
We've been over this too.
It's been explained the process.
So I guess, yeah, we could probably go for having one because I could,
whoever I want.
Oh, Tim Curry isn't dead.
Can you have a stroke?
You can survive those.
Nope.
I could have sworn he was dead.
We just left a secret chat to see if Tim Curry is still alive.
No, Tim Curry's dead.
Oh, he is alive.
They're right.
He's age 73.
No, he's dead.
I don't think he's acting anymore, though.
Because he did have a stroke.
It sucks because he's fucking great and everything.
And you said, unfortunately, after you said he had a stroke,
otherwise people might not know.
I mean, strokes are bad.
There is a universe where having a stroke improves your ability to do.
Even having strokes in golf is bad.
A stroke on the head, like a pound there, but with more motion.
If someone strokes my head, I think that'll be different than like being
patted on the head.
Well, like how well, yeah, it's a different hand motion.
Moller gave Tim Curry a stroke.
Oh, no.
Why, Moller?
Yeah, he still apparently does like interviews and stuff where he's still
around, which I don't think we'll see him in much anymore.
Which is a shame because I really like Tim Curry.
But let's just assume that he was at full power.
Who could he be in the MCU?
I guess I don't know enough about who's left to bring in now other than like
reboots.
Exploit yourself, Moller.
I didn't do it.
It was lies.
The fuck would be about Tim Curry?
Yeah, like I said, it's it's tragic regardless.
But he is currently alive.
Belch, also Hi Rags.
Oh, hello.
Hey there.
Rags, why do you say the word Belch when you burp?
Honestly, that's the thing that my dad did.
And I just kind of do it without even thinking.
I legit don't think about doing it as a...
I'm surprised that was your answer.
I thought you were just going to give it troll ads.
No, no.
It's something that my dad would do.
You're going to spread it to the rest of the world.
Endgame sucked.
Oh.
Monopoly is only fuck when you cheat anyway.
Well, now you can if you cheat as a woman, you'll already have more benefits anyway.
You can just cheat by being a woman now.
Yes.
Rags has boozy power.
Ooh, I got the boozy power.
I don't know what that means.
It's a good thing.
Women would never be able to win without giving men a handicap.
Finally balanced.
I was going to say about the whole like, what if meds still win?
What does that say?
Like, what have you done?
Fucking made it really awkward.
Watch Premonition.
It was made for eFap movies.
I'll put it on a potentials list.
Imagine playing as a woman and still losing.
Yikes.
I'm ready for it.
Playing as a woman.
Well, yeah, because we were saying that couldn't you just identify as a woman
and get the money advantage?
Oh, yeah.
Kind of awkward, isn't it?
I'm ready for a good time.
Excellent.
This is why you create men's rights activists.
I mean, I don't mind them doing it in Monopoly.
You can fuck off with with a little bit of board game.
Let's just hope they don't do it.
I mean, I was going to play Monopoly anyway, but I'll condemn it regardless.
And it seems to be a spinoff one, right?
I guess not.
You can still buy regular Monopoly.
Imagine they canceled regular Monopoly.
It's all Miss Monopoly now.
No.
I'm really going to miss Monopoly.
That's the thing.
Guys, what's the time you guys played Monopoly?
Christmas 2015, I think.
I'm sorry.
SJWism is the new age fascism.
Change my mind.
It does behave that way.
As a proud femitism, I'm disgusted by Miss Monopoly.
The male gaze pleasing white mascot only furthers the destructiveness of the patriarchy.
Goes Hasbro up as the transphobic racializers that they are.
Yeah.
Fascist right wing by definition.
Well, if you think about it, the right wing is just going really far left until you circle all the way around and you're on the right.
Yeah, I mean, but besides that, though.
I answered your question.
Jesus, man.
Is water, in fact, wet?
Also, hi, Rags.
Oh, hello.
There is.
We have scientists working on it.
That's all.
Everyone will play as women in Miss Monopoly.
Yeah.
Again, that's going to create really awkward situations, especially with people who are actually interested in being referred to as female or whatever.
You keep adding some guy be like, I'll do that just because you want money.
Just like that.
I don't know.
It's just so many potential horrible stuff to come out of it.
It's such a bad move.
You know, it's going to buy it.
I think Tiaro privatized here lies Rags.
I think he and Quentin are getting a divorce.
Oh, I mentioned it.
Thank you for 50.
You won.
It was 51.
It was the extremely long intro.
I mentioned it.
But I spoke to him and he agreed to unlist it, which was very nice.
I prefer that that video isn't listed.
It's not very.
I mean, it would be it wouldn't be a stretch for me to say that we're not fans of it.
I guess the other episodes might attest to that as well.
But hey, Miss Monopoly community chess cards, sexual harassment go directly to jail.
He brown fitted brown table's face on it, though.
Like places, it's got like a little audio thing installed.
So you pick up the cards.
It's like sexual harassment.
Sexual.
Sexual.
Miss Monopoly community.
Oh, wait, sorry.
God, I wish we were never given the vote.
Holy fuck.
She said it.
The second two.
Uh.
OG Monopoly.
You require property that will generate consistent long term wealth.
Wham! Inversion.
You spend all your money on sweets and one off trinkets,
teaching people women are bad at money management to own the patriarchy.
Maybe Hasbro is doing a big tism and they're actually trying to be like,
we hate women.
That's the big reveal.
That'd be a good twist.
Would it not be a hateful twist?
It would be a good reveal in a season finale of the world of Hasbro.
The world.
The world season.
Wait, wait, which season of the world are we currently in?
Summer.
That's like numbers.
Oh, that would be two.
One to nineteen.
What happened last year?
That's seven.
Out of three.
I keep track of all the.
Really bad at fractions.
I know.
I like to think we're in season two thousand ninety.
Right.
Sorry, I've been.
I'm going to collect these in all amounts of meat time that I have.
Hey, mauler poop.
Is that a command?
Yes.
Imagine a game where in which men are praised for their inventions and accomplishments.
Did they grow up to think that people don't know about women's inventions?
I'm not even a Westerner.
I guess Google's too hard to use.
Really have no idea.
You know, how are you supposed to know what women have ever done in this world?
I mean, I just assumed that they didn't do anything.
They're just a bunch of freeloaders.
Clearly men invented everything.
The only reason they want to get married to us is so they can divorce us.
Take half our shit and then invent things like along the way.
But they stole it.
That's probably it.
I don't.
I think women didn't invent everything.
Women didn't invent anything except Google.
Yes, they did.
That's their contribution.
What, plexiglass?
No, Google Glass.
Oh, did they?
Yeah, that's the only thing women ever invented.
Well, at least now they got that.
It's not a blowout anymore.
All right, women at the annual women meeting.
They're like, all right, women, we can only invent one thing.
What's it going to be?
And someone in the back was like, Google Glass.
And everyone didn't really know what to say.
They just fucking did it.
Yeah, sure.
I'm surprised you know the story so well.
Were you at the meeting?
I identified as a woman that way.
So they let me in.
Checkmate atheists.
I always just assumed they saw the memes where you're always portrayed as.
Yeah.
All that rags must be a woman, right?
I know what the fuck is up.
But do you know what the fuck is.
These nuts.
Well played.
Xavier is gay.
All right.
I will simply identify as a woman and collect more.
Yeah, well, the easy way out.
I bet taxon changed her agenda to get the Miss Monopoly advantage.
Shake my head.
Again, I can't see anyone honestly buying it.
Is anyone going to other than people who want to make a video about how
stupid it is?
I mean.
Can you preorder it?
You landed on chocolate chip cookies.
You owe me $200.
It's like don't I have to pay less because I'm a woman like oh my bad.
That's right.
Yeah, that's true.
You only owe me 20 bucks.
I'd be surprised it wasn't a stipulation.
The rule where it's like if a female lands on another female's place,
they could stay there for free because they're not going to charge.
Girl power because the sisterhood.
Miss Monopoly isn't orderable yet, but you can get fortnight monopoly.
Wow.
That sounds worse somehow.
You only get you get extra money if you're dumb.
Hey, you sing that.
Yeah, I get those get those B bucks.
Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying.
I'm sorry.
Someone on Twitter said that ball a buggy to that is review of Borderlands 3 might be
good for a fab, although it's a bit different.
It's not so much that he points the points.
He makes it bad.
Probably the worst review ever made.
He literally just scrolls through scrolls through better critic and agrees with
other reviews.
Wow.
He must have worked on it.
That sounds funny.
It sounds like a boogie thing too.
Could we get a live reading of the leaked Star Wars nine story?
Really want to see your reactions to it.
If you haven't read it already, actually have that like queued up as a thing to do
in one of the intros coming up.
We might do it next time.
It'll depend on what the guests look like.
Like if they're white.
Yes, I don't do.
Do any.
Do any black people watch Star Wars?
Do we know this?
No, Finn.
He's in it.
He doesn't watch it.
He's in it.
I'm sure he does watch it sometimes.
He's inside that risk.
No, he can.
He can also.
He can also watch it.
Like if he has friends over, he could say, hey, look, I'm going to have this
plane in the background.
It's me.
Keke Stadi Vika said, despite being 51 percent of the population, women commit
100 percent of the base crimes.
They despite being 51 percent of the populations, women commit zero percent
of invention.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Hey, tell that big gay mauler that he'd a big gay mauler.
You're the big gay.
And tell critical drinker his mom gay.
All right.
The Don bless you all in the name of the cosmic chicken.
I think.
You mom gay.
Sleep wake up to that.
He's going to wake up to know he's going to wake up and he'll be like, man, my
mom's gay.
The barbell is a reference to Hillary Clinton dealing with her enemies.
Got it.
The barbell like the the I guess she hits them.
Is that is that it for a second?
There are some with the barbell.
Yeah.
Like to kill them.
I thought that it was either that or it was the good defeating your enemies is
the equivalent of lifting barbells.
Yeah.
I'm a little I don't know.
I don't know about that one.
Send more money and explain it.
I'm going to keep an eye on chat.
I was falling from this guy falling barbell.
Bubbles.
Falling barbells.
Using them to death.
The barbell, I think.
I think so.
Yeah, I think I think we got it.
I think assassination by barbell.
They should have a vision of monopoly.
I guess the regular what is.
Well, regular monopoly isn't called Mr.
Monopoly.
Men don't get any special privileges.
Oh, the guy who died.
Was there a guy who died related to Jim equipment death?
Is this a thing?
Probably happened in history.
In relation to some of the enemy of Hillary, maybe.
I don't know.
Take wait.
Okay.
Well, yeah.
Anyway, give this to drink.
Someone got out of a shake.
Wait.
Okay.
What?
My star.
Oh, only you have wronged me in episode 50.
My friend asked you to say hi to me, but you pronounce my name wrong.
I demand a correction.
My name is Gustav with V like in vendetta.
Oh, Gustav with V.
And say hi to my friend Oscar.
Hello, Oscar.
Hi, rags.
Hello.
And hello, Oscar.
I'm actually here for once.
I love you guys.
Xavier is the gay.
Why are people.
He's either gay.
I didn't know this.
I got to get science on this.
Decided to finally send one of those super chats just waiting for my
team to work.
Does Xavier's butt work?
Oh, that's a good question.
Because if it doesn't work, then he's not going to be a happy gay.
That gay.
Kind of sad gay.
But if you can't feel anything down there, then he could probably take
some big dicks.
Don't you agree, Jay?
Yes.
All right.
He was going to have some commentary, but no, there's yes.
Hop out.
No, no, we got off lucky on that one.
Carry on.
Fine, Jay.
Hop in.
Yes.
Decided to send one of those super chats just waiting for my theme to
finally get played so I can enjoy my rhino meal.
That was from This is Kyle.
Rhinal milk.
Yeah.
Rhinal, rhinold, rhinold milk.
Rhinold?
Rhinold...
MULK.
Rhinold?
Rhinold MULK.
Hope the theme was played that you were looking for.
Rags is a collar, a piece of clothing or an accessory.
It is an accessory.
It's a part of a piece of clothing.
No, it's definitely an accessory.
In fact,
when I have just a collar on I feel more naked than when I have nothing on it's
really weird yeah that's there are certain like anything that isn't like
clothes that cover you you feel more naked if you like a collar yeah because
like well no what about what about socks do you not feel more naked if you're
wearing just socks yeah I do yeah yeah so there you go I'm glad we agreed on
this but it but that covers part of you your socks cover party to cover your
feet no I mean if it doesn't if it like you know like you're like I don't legs
or your your your torso like the main parts of you that clothes cover your
feet your feet are a main part of you they're very important no they're like a
secondary part of you you don't okay well you live one day you live one day
without them clothes I'm not I'm not saying without clothes without clothes
ah yes without feet go a day without feet and just wobble around I bet you
couldn't play soccer I don't have any food play yeah I know cuz you're oh no
our manager plays rocket league which is I mean I've played rocket league I have
the closest thing to soccer that I have played well I've played soccer but what
about actual what have you played soccer surely you've played actual soccer you
played actual soccer I have yeah are you good at it or are you know I've not
played for like years now anyway I've been given a link to a YouTube video
where apparently the Game of Thrones cast this us what says I don't know if
they really it make fun of maybe toxic brood fans or something I'll have to
check it out I'd be curious to see that actually is trap water gay yes asking
rags how would you know I have a couple of it right here how do you know it's
water well it's not as trap water you identified it as trap water yeah well
no it's only what is it what is it really it's trap water but what yeah so
what is trap water really it's not actually water so what is it what's it
with a dick fair enough I'd stick my dick in water and make it trap water you
can see it's taking a kid trap water meeting used to pick and equal to a very
confusing line of questioning but it's important that we explore topics high
class vodka is such a fallacy because the idea of vodka is to be as flavorless
as possible do you spend money for less flavor yeah you can do a lot with it
then I don't know you can flavor it with other stuff I was gonna say I can do all
sorts of things but I like I know anything about vodka I was just saying
that the higher the price of vodka that tends to be the slower it gets you drunk
my experience really cheap vodka is really bad but also guess same is true
of cider I'm like actually really any drink yeah that probably does apply to
most things what was the best time period for movie writing oh I don't know
I'd have to really look into like a year that was good or someone who's the third
of December 1933 they through oh yeah we're doing that even I mean for that to
happen clearly it was 2018 and 19 best time for movie and 17 the end of 2017
yeah already said the end of 2017 is included it was written that's when it
came out wasn't written in like 2015 I think it was actually a good to hear
voice again I feel warm and fuzzy with memories from the I hate everything last
Jedi response video yeah but he hasn't been on since episode like I want to say
episode 3 it could have been you know since then but uh there's a link to his
stream in the in the description and he often hangs out with me and metal on
metal strip father for Tia bless me with your milk and love yeah there's this
weird thing where I'm what he is just really not sure in a PFP right so he
went with with a blue iron man some reason right and then we were making
jokes and somehow it got into like a storyline where he was like a priest and
then I was like imagine like a priest iron man um yeah kind of cloak style
thing in a hood he's a blue iron man he's a superhero and he doesn't retake
the priest thing that seriously it's just a part of his persona if you will
and then I was like you should make if be that he um draw or anything so we
were like imagine someone made just a crappy like that meme and then we could
just about you beasts blue iron man it goes p.s. that have just blew I'm glad
you told me you did the context how are you gonna understand the father for Tia
bless me with your milk and love you need to know all milk the man I'm so
used to eat fat that just struck me as a normal sentence well yeah naturally why
is everyone effing what's what happened we must be down oh no Obama get down is
it down I hope not either we made it like we're just gonna press F regardless
now no I think we're good oh no I see it you already have blue eye about it's
called anthem it that turned out well hey mauler I've heard you haven't played
the Kotor series or Metal Gear or Fallout New Vegas mauler you're the J of video
games you haven't played New Vegas huh that's interesting no I haven't you
don't even go there there's so many there's gonna be a whole bunch of games
I've played you haven't I'm not really good you should play New Vegas it's
really good I've heard it's very good let's just let's just go let's just take
it easy with the best-selling game in the world you played minecraft I have
played it that interesting right Wow holy fuck I think that's a loud you're not
like mauler I'm actually kind of surprised at you mauler I didn't think
that oh man like I expected this shit mine craft is a game about blocks for
children yes that means it's good though that means you're allowed to get
passionate about it yeah there's loads of kids I go to play get around to them
very very slowly in between watching a billion movies again and again because
apparently if I watch movies and criticize them I just can't believe it
mauler you use JV also on season 5 of Buffy does the that out listen you ask
that question it gets heavily explained this power voice season 6 is so amazing
if you just if you you're on that or something keep watching the black lady
in the slave collar such a racist I don't know actually does that have to
say something maybe they just wanted to say that maybe yeah maybe they're just
expressing they spent money to say that it gives it extra power through naked
money comes power naked boss if I can't say the n-word then Smeagol Kuhn will
have full control over metal gear the giddy Oh bajima button fetish
about any of that I agree just say yes blessings of the dawn be upon you also
hi Anna Anna that's always cool who I believe in chat for this having fun you
guys ask wolf if you've seen the dark crystal Netflix series I personally loved
it and hope that fluffy massive feels the same I can I can I see serious yes
it's like a reboot remake thing and I've only heard good things about it oh I
didn't even know
the king of thing I just realized I've got a backlog of questions for rags as
well oh really rags well yeah throw him at me what's your favorite CW McCall
song I like let me see Wolf Creek Pass
that it yeah that's the song Wolf Creek Pass way upon the great divine truck it
on down the other side I looked at early in his eyes was wide and his lip was
crawling then his leg was fried rags would you say tism before massive I
would say like if you interest if you're describing someone you would say that
they're a massive tism I guess I guess they're asking maybe like in terms of
rising in the conversation of like anger it's like which one would you first like
which one's the most serious thing um man I don't know they're both kind of
casual insults I wouldn't I'm not exactly it's not like you're busting out
the heavy liquor or anything I kind of I would use them both in a simple level
yeah I don't they're not I don't really consider them super super insult as high
rags hello hey there I watched masquerade also what you do outside of
YouTube tisms slash doggo things oh I just live a life it's not not really
that complicated hose I I've got my hobbies walk walking I like walk I enjoy
hiking just going out with family friends and doing social life things I
go to the range a fair amount and I sit on dicks you know just things people do
yeah have you seen pig punches video on you no I believe he's the guy where he
said he used to like me but he doesn't anymore it might be I remember he's just
a guy who does other streams and he just wants to videos with streams kind of like
us but um not as good a few different inferior yeah punches pigs rags I caught
a re-up with your face on it now I'm not gay or anything but my people felt
some strong thing oh man you should see me now those strange things strange
things either way stranger things right how do you feel about over under
shotguns I haven't I don't have any so I'm gonna withhold judgment seems that's
the thing it seems kind of having an extra barrel out there seems like it
would really add a lot of weight to it that you don't necessarily need but
there's kind of a I can see the appeal in the in the simplicity of it kind of
like how a bolt-action rifle is it an extra barrel I thought it was just two
barrels but in on its side almost well an over-under is a barrel above and a
barrel below so you get two shots but it takes a barrel each and a barrel adds a
lot of weight to the front oh yeah I guess I was just referencing the a lot
of shotguns a double barrel anyway right yeah some are side by side some are
over-under I don't have either but it's kind of on my list I think I'd want a
side-by-side but I'm not I'm not sure they both kind of look nifty that's the
thing as a second question do you like World War era bolt action yeah absolutely
I've got a I've got one
hey rags have you played a game called deadbolt I've not played deadbolt but I
hear it's pretty good but I know about I know the game that you're a reference
and I would be surprised if I eventually pick it up hey right I think the game
that I'm putting most hours into now is I'm playing Minecraft a lot more now but
also Mordhau what are you doing in Minecraft building all sorts of crazy
stuff I'm just I I'm just building my village in my farms and making pathways
and walls and not really simple I like seeing how well I can create sort of
like buildings and structures and pathways and walls that kind of fit into
the environment really well something that seems reasonable and kind of not
natural but make sense you know build into the world as it as it's presented
to you I remember you recommending oblivion I was wondering if you see
trailer for skyblivian I haven't no to be honest I just skyblivian it is kind
of a shit name yeah I will agree on that well I'm assuming the name of it is just
a mixture of Skyrim and oblivion yeah but to those of you who haven't played
oblivion you really should you really should give it a try it's old it's aged
a bit but it's really charming it's really kind of enjoyable it's a lot more
complex than Skyrim is as well and it kind of like I unironically enjoy
oblivion more than Skyrim because Skyrim is not that good quite frankly it's okay
oh wait you said that already on efap so it's fine not even a controversial take
because you said not even a contratism maula can you and rags post your PC
specs on discord my name is nominal ninja I think your specs are on your
about page on YouTube right oh I need to change him because I had a new PC yeah
thanks for reminding me I actually I do need to change those mine I guess the
interesting parts got a 2 gig ram an i9-7 900x and graphics card GTX 1080 ti
they're the interesting parts of my PC I imagine the rest of it is gonna be just
just standard expectations of what else is in there yeah it's pretty good PC I
know ragsism is a is a Titan though I mean that metaphorically not an actual
brand so it's a choice it's a good place I do not have Titans why I said
that yeah that's it for all the collector I've been collecting questions
for you and I never actually read them out where did I where did I miss an
efap where I got all these questions well it's like you don't always make it
through the super chat selection and then you get a bunch of random questions
sometimes like you've answered a few of them oh yeah sometimes I've had to leave
yeah but just make sure that I grab them up but I also need to read them
out okay lol because rich Evans joked about using his hat to hide the fact
he's old in that sketch I'm not sure what that's referencing must have been
when we were talking about the lighter thing maybe cuz he's wearing a hat well
yeah the guy he was making fun of that dude he wasn't wearing a hat that a New
York oh so maybe he felt maybe he felt like that was a personal attack or so
yeah and again this isn't you know it applies to everybody and nobody at the
same time but when you put on a hat as a youtuber a lot of people assume you want
to hide your hair they're lying or hit bad hair in general or whatever I wear
but it can be absolutely it can be what's wrong with your hair sometimes it
just doesn't go the way I want it to oh yeah do you so do you control your hair
or does your hair control yeah it's kind of like that's kind of like it's kind of
weak sauce Jay you need a man up Jake come on I shaved it off last time I
remember I saw it and you I have I shaved off my hair yeah how'd that work
out I didn't have any hair for a while I know how'd that work out it's fine it's
fine all right yeah I feel like it I could have suited it a lot worse did you
get more or less poontang more because you had any or just same as normal no I
don't think I really got any in that period of my life you didn't you didn't
woo the ladies with your smooth Vin Diesel haircut did you woo the man no no
did you woman you get wooing man get wooing woman get to woman to use some
kind of mating call skirt yeah maybe it's different pitches over and over
again make sure to mention like 1.2 billion sort of sort of quote that
attracts the ladies just go billion oh they'll come running this one just says
it's not a phase mom I think this really definitely relate into the to the
freakout video from Collider many youtubers who rightfully claims recently
published monopoly for Millennials and monopoly socialism are great parodies
aren't using the same logic regarding miss monopoly are we supposed to not
look well here's the thing I I don't think it's supposed to be a parody
isn't it by Hasbro I'm gonna be a parody if it's by yeah it's by Hasbro was
the was the socialism one by Hasbro I doubt it but if it were I would be
impressed I'd be like I would be I would be surprised that's for certain I would
legit be has been signed off on a this socialist mocking monopoly set but I
you know how corporate especially corporate America is with pro-woman pro
feminism that sort of thing they don't have any they're fucking dumb they'll do
it I like how I was like how did I not know Jay released a video six hours ago
and I was like oh wait we've been streaming for six and a half that makes
sense Jay uploaded a video six hours ago yeah I did I wish my video would be
able to be uploaded YouTube who told me the chat they appreciate their content
creators and I said lol I can see the big like laughing out loud as well my
friend I am also laughing with joy along with you valued content creator we need
some are you trying to post there's no video I don't have top comments about
efap memes I'm gonna leave one I'm gonna be clever oh oh oh I got one I got do do
rhino milk got it oh that's a good one yeah that's yeah do do the rhino emoji
and then the milk emoji they'll be like rhino milk refresh on newest first until
I see it ah best part of waking up is rhino milk in your cup Oh
I capitalized both rhino and milk it's important I still don't see it I'd only
just posted give me a second I might go through a spam filter you know how
YouTube are they don't like it when you mention the dawn this part of watching
the dawn is knowing how he gets on okay found it also rags criticism of said
game reminds me of the criticism of other monopoly games I mentioned
received from SJW journalists in CNN polygon etc also high-rags hello well I
don't know exactly what he's referring to but I will say that there seems to be
a lot of unified opposition the idea of a missed monopoly because it seems
really like I'm not even coming at it from like I don't know a man versus
woman thing I'm just like it's just stupid it's just really stupid if your
goal was to celebrate women there are way better ways to do it than that it's
really stupid making a game that's easier for them to win it's like it's
like there's a golf course and you see the women's tea up front no one says oh
there's patronizing to women it's like no most women are just weaker than men
and we want to keep things fair it's in the spirit of the game and no one
thinks lesser of women for it but when you have something like miss monopoly
it's just like oh yeah you're just gonna fucking free money here you go you
crank it genuinely like if I was the wamans and we set up the game and someone
says like okay you know Derek you get this John you get this more you get this
and I'm like no no no I'm good Oh Cindy bless your heart it's like you're I mean
this is like you get the extra money because it's harder for you and taps on
the head thanks like oh thanks thanks guys bro I feel like you solved the
patriarchy the trailer for what the Miss Monopoly trailer does it I like how
board games of trailers 1000 likes to 37,000 dislikes hey winning 37s not
maybe it's not Batman bad not Batman bad sorry is it
can you double check and see which ones I would have thought which is the worst
batwoman trailer okay oh chat chat chat which do you think is worse in terms of
the ratio the batwoman trailer or the Miss Monopoly trailer Miss Monopoly is
worse by far Wow thanks for letting the chat have a chance to fucking think
about it Jay they had a few seconds I'll have a few seconds to vote of it it'll
well now I won't know if they're saying it because they know the answer is it'll
be kick Jay suit after them it'll be kicked everyone just vote yes to kick
Jay or yes to kick Jay
it ain't right it ain't right sure a lot of Miss Monopoly yeah look at that what
the fuck Jay thanks Jay you know if we a better manager wouldn't have done that
we need Charles often in his art manager hey you feel about ruining fun what are
you ruining the fun of men with your board games well wouldn't he only be
able to ruin 70% of the fun if Jay had a board game it would be spelled b-o-r-e-d
that was Luskin
the next thing was that is it just says what if it's child porn rags 2019 that's
a fair question to illustrate the point that he was making as be not being
valid cuz I'm I'm gonna take a principled stance against against
child porn and you can quote me on that hey rags thoughts not a nation the one
with Ethan Hawke you massive I haven't seen that is it supposed to be like
really bad maybe Ethan Hawke I guess I was addressed to all of us because the
high rags was just its own thing Ethan Hawke predestination this is a 2015
movie I have no clue I don't even I didn't even know this movie was a thing
with family today but so glad you're covering this video good luck guys rated
fairly well we not only covered the video we got the creator to get an
interview about it that's that's efap is that special now and he doesn't hate our
guts that much probably made I was gonna say probably doesn't hate our guts too
much all a play rogue warrior credit song it's public it's really worth ask
CJ it's so funny we'll have a blast even play it in your April Fool's video
rogue warrior credit song the fuck it rogue war is terrible and I don't think
it's multiplayer but if it were we totally do a new fab gaming rogue warrior
credit song feature featuring Mickey Rourke MC Mickey Rourke he is the voice
the protagonist it would rags what hentai do you want me to draw for you
who's asking this sexual yeti oh that sounds like a sexual yeti man what what
hentai and that's actually a good question and it's not one that I want to
squander what Wow give me a second to think about that well I mean I mean no I
need to be I need to learn to be spontaneous and on the spot I need to
learn to think on my feet and as a dog I feel like since I have four feet I
should be able to think on my feet better if you're gonna draw a hentai of
me then I want it to be nasty creepy how about a hentai a hentai of me I
don't know what's specifically hentai are you trying to find a tame hentai
cuz it's just it's it's paramount I'm trying to tame I'm trying to find a
tamish hentai that's still at the same time adult themed everyone's like rags
know what hentai is of course I know hentai is this is my first day on the
internet everyone knows who the priests at my old church probably knows what
hentai is oh I know yeah if it was a hentai of me I would be saving a princess
from an evil dragon but it turns out the princess is an ungrateful bitch so I I
take the dragon instead out on a date and we have a lustful a lustful romance
there you go yeah a hand make him make him a handsome he doesn't have to be a
dragon some nondescript monster but you know something like orky you know like a
hunky orc
someone in chat just said an all-caps Jay shooting his milk on rags so this
next one just says kick Jay also geode okay Jay also I like how that's kind of
becoming a thing the whole thing yeah he drinks from a geode misty fab 51 live
so I'll ask you what are your thoughts on old d23 announcement as in like three
announced oh I don't I don't care about any honestly I don't yeah I don't give a
shit I mean I think now when you say d23 what is that referring to exactly is it
like Disney con is that what that the 2013 it's Disney right it's really it's
like that's where the the release for the Star Wars clip came out as well yeah
that's what I was thinking yeah the only one that I'm interested in right now is
probably the doc strange movie other than that it would have to be a good trailer
that gets me into anything else coming out of Marvel's a mile I hope miss
Marvel superpower will be to spontaneously explode in large crowds she
is Pakistani after all oh oh that's a good point oh isn't blade supposed to be
they want to make him Muslim as well or is it was that was that bullshit I
remember bull mentioning that in video we'll have to see where they go see what
they do I don't know as an Indian I agree with Alex Nelson Alex Nelson some
of the Indians agree with all right do not look at Miss Monopoly as a power
those the other half are a less steel poop fun fact about portals music it
changes into six different keys throughout cool too bad my new job has
been working weekends otherwise I'd be watching this stream also hi rags hello
hey there I've been watching old efaps for like two days and I missed an hour
of this one love myself lost too many brain cells watching the major lead
debate I guess well LMAO it can have my right this time catching that was a
that was a rough one man oh yeah it was it was tough that was a tough one
remember we have was a tough man get to talk about in veto trying to
defend like microtransactions randomly in there yeah that was an odd one he
said like they gotta make money oh yeah veto also says that the epic game store
is great so I don't know still says that I haven't got an update on that I think
at this point if you're still pro epic game store at this point I'm like man
even the epic game store like why like yeah epic game store burns down
orphanage and you're like well you know it solves the hunger crisis I guess or
something it's great that they finally invented microtransactions so that now
finally after video games can make money yeah can you believe that for like 30
years they never made a dime yeah that's crazy speaking of efaps I missed I fell
asleep really early in the last one and saw in the replay that a bunch of other
people took up the roof chucker mantle I'm proud of my efap super soldier army
yeah rah rah a lot of people wanted to throw people off roofs I guess checker
man so there was a guy who started collecting people from roofs like the
floor I'm pretty sure there was a profile that was trying to save
people from roofs as well you have a chat to tell a story
Chad needs to take the tactic strats of this apart the endgame ones or it must
have been the endgame one I suppose so maybe well I don't know if there's an
is there enough to go off of for what the strats were other than charge
forward yeah I mean I think he did which was he analyzed Thanos's weapon one of
the main things you can do which is terrible and it hurts me to look at it
looks so awkward to use as well my wrist just groans in agony whenever I see it
has rag seen RVB so red versus blue I have seen some red versus blue
absolutely this is assumed because of the griff ball reference yeah but griff
ball was also a game mode that was well no it was put in the game because of
red versus blue where it was mm-hmm oh yeah that's neat you guys should watch
the first ten seasons the only thing RT has of any value what's interesting is I
did watch a decent chunk of it a while back but I've mostly forgotten it
unfortunately what I didn't forget was I'll be in the chief I watched the shit
out of that and the reason I mentioned that is cuz obviously they're both made
as machinimas and I really liked I'll be in the chief who's good shit I can't
stress just how excited I am legitimately excited I to play Halo on
modern PCs running with modern frame rates and graphic settings like I'm I'm
so stoked for that yeah yes I'm on board to be fun also I saw in the replay that
some punk-ass bitches made some pathetic attempts at talking shit if you're in
chat right now remember you diaper babies the numbers don't lie and they
spell disaster for you at efap what oh wait who's I don't get it where's being
spelled disaster at efap what are we then I don't quite understand I don't
find raw who's the disaster give us the answers do you do not know the
reference I actually don't know the reference the reference it's well hang on
it's one of the important videos is how I know but it's from something you know
the important video here it is have you not watched the important videos
playlist maybe not important videos playlist you don't know about the
important videos playlists no you have to watch the best response typography
yeah I don't that's the that's the reference oh all right I guess I'll have
to look into this I apologize for not being up on the meme you just have to
watch this whole playlist of videos from start to finish they're all like not that
long okay maybe we'll do that sometime maybe we'll do that after you watch the
fucking Lord of the Rings that's fair have you thought about responding I am
the essence of fairness I'm fairness personified cannot say that a fight
canine if I agree if you went if you go to Jay if you go to a dictionary if you
go to a dictionary and you look up the word fairness you know what you're gonna
see I can't hear him what if you go to a dictionary and you look up the word
fairness do you know what you're gonna see next to it the definition of
fairness damn straight in a picture of me no no no just the definition of
fairness as well as a picture of rags I got really confused that when no one was
talking because I have this dream up instead of discord so I was seeing the
circles going and I'm like why am I not hearing anything it's cuz you're letting
us down you chose to pay attention to lights instead of listening to rags
well yeah starter from the bottom and now you're still there have you thought
about responding to film joys in defense of TLJ I would love to see drinkers take
on it it film joy I'm not familiar movies with my king the last Jedi gives
me no joy we responded to his Infinity War video didn't we not that's not his
TLJ one I mean we might check it out we still got he's one Sean is one Jenny
Nicholson Jenny Nichols I always forget her name and I've said too many times in
both of them now to never remember the correct one she's another one I know we
need to recover Quinton's video on TLJ on on a fab because we never did it on
a fab and yet there's a couple of references it's a really bad video as
well so there's so many TLJ videos for us to do there's some gold in them
there Hills yes and the problem is we're about to enter into episode 9
territory imagine all the video essays we're gonna have to cover then all the
people saying like episode 9 it's an allegory for the Trump's America we'll
be like no I want to see more from a very pop culture detective we did I need
to check his shit see if he's come up with anything doesn't be lately cuz his
TLJ video it was just straight-up lies it's just made up shit he's one of the
biggest inspirations for this channel as well because it was what I expected
both we didn't get as much from us that because he was like describing things
that just didn't happen I remember how many times during that stream did we
pause and say that doesn't happen in the film you rewatch that what it's been
so long it has been a long time that's some that's some classic eFap hmm
season one man season one I'm such a long way also high racks hello oh man
definitely took a week video from closer look here really like his content usually
tends to stay as objective as possible also high-rags hello I've like I said at
the beginning of the stream he's a he was like a mixed bag for me seen some
stuff I like from him seems to stuff I don't like from him I just I find it
amusing in the process of being like before we start I was like I'm pretty
sure his voice is tis be room that we like found his voice hilarious that he
comes on thought his actual voice and he plays it up we're just like yep all of
that made sense as one big progression of everything but that's mm-hmm did you
did you catch that bit J how he sounds like way better in voice in his videos I
was so curious to find out what he actually sounded like it's like most
people really weird videos I know that like you know there's not a fair example
because all of us here tend to like it's not fair to say that the chat all
preferred it too but I mean that seemed to be the case I guess I'm cute I
definitely preferred his normal person voice to his weird channel voice that he
does and I'm like why what made that happen I wonder if his oldest video has
him talking like a normal person it does I'm not sure I remember him talking more
normally I'm not sure how normal it is yes he has some really weird videos well
we were gonna mind is how to write a great character and it's like three
minutes long oh that's yeah so me and Fringy watched that and we didn't I
didn't realize that was close to look at the time as in like that just popped up
randomly and I was like oh we should watch this literally because it's three
minutes we were like this this is the hilarious thing ever but um we watched
that one and how to is it how to make a villain or how to write a villain or
something and I was I said to Fringy I was like we should bring these up for
eFap because they're really good conversation starters and they're just
poor videos but I now realize they're by him so feels bad man I think I was
there for that you might have been yeah I've definitely I've definitely watched
how to create a great character well something JC when I saw it how dare you
oh I do but that again not to say that he can't make good content or anything I
I've enjoyed some stuff from him and I said that the most important thing is
he was a nice respectful man so respectful and respectful with a good
sense of humor as well it seems yeah you need to take everything on the chin fun
and up about tisms and stuff hi rags hello that mauler have you ever seen
the literature devil any thoughts yes day wants me to try and get them as a
guest wait I do yes no way am I mixing that up with someone else I think you
might be who's the one who does trope talk no that's okay overly sarcastic
okay I don't know why I've mixed those two up but um that's someone you want me
to get on this show right yeah I think I said she was like I don't know if they
even want to but baby as for the literature devil then I guess I have no
idea who that is because I just invented someone for them to be I think
I know who that is I think that's the I mean there's a lot of like SJW takedown
videos well the name overly sarcastic productions does sound familiar what
about literature devil media commentary with an edge literature devil has a
video called superhero comics of a man I hope that's a joke title superhero
comics are for men I don't know why they do that for before anybody people who
dislike superheroes I suppose wonder what the argument is
gonna put that on my least check out later list because I'll be I mean I'm
hoping that's just a joke title maybe one of the top comments says Stanley
Marvel is for everyone oh no Stanley is a racist remember how is Stanley a
racist I don't know but that's what they said about that's what the SJW screeched
about when he died that he's a terrible racist and a bad person because of
course he is well yeah anyway again we're on board with pretty much having
anybody on eventually so maybe even Stan Stanley if you watch this and you
want to be on eFap live us a holler let us know we'd love to have you when you
put down the soy and realize your wife's boyfriend's dick out of your mouth you'll
realize the cap wielding mjolnir in endgame has nothing on cap holding back
Thanos's gauntlet and Infinity War yeah I prefer both yeah I don't have the
hammer is pretty good him I'm going up his shield with the hammer and taking on
Thanos was cool as fuck yeah that's a that's gonna be a tough one to beat
their champs just a good moment yeah if Iron Man lifted it I don't think it
works that well I'd be like yeah it's just been there wouldn't have been right
it's too sort of goody tissues for him isn't it that's the kind of the angle
that it's like you know you'd be like oh she's saying the Iron Man isn't worthy
I'd be like well not with how I understand the worthiness thing it seems
to be I'd almost exclusively to honesty or any of character altruism as well the
idea like entirely tied to a character's goal of making everything better for
everyone and as much as Tony Stark still wants everything to be good for
everybody he still totally does selfish stuff all the time conflicted in that
regard not sanely consistent definitely more I'd say realistic quote-unquote but
you know yeah I feel like cap in it so yeah absolutely there's a you know
people want to be like talking about how he's moved to do his altisms at the end
was selfish we should talk about I suppose one day I think we already have
talked about a new fabric um I don't know about you but I don't know about
you but I want the Asian cast to have their own empowering female Avengers
scene with all my favorites Wong mantis and Ned Leeds
how awkward would that be that would be so funny oh the Asian representation god
yeah cuz it's okay when it's women but if it was Asian you imagine how much
like SGW types would probably hate it they'd be like this is so wrong it's
wrong but I can't actually formulate an argument why it's wrong but what on was
because they're presenting it as good representation when it's like you know
three people out of there like ridiculous huge number of characters I
guess this is the same thing it's like with what they're doing with the actual
like the scene but in it that's a really small proportion of their actual
characters but whatever it's like look at our representation we've got a bit of
it not enough to have a bit jay you need a whole chunk
this is in relation to us pronouncing things from Lord of the Rings I guess
does it's pronounced by raw me that's supposed to be like a barometer
barometer I don't think so again go it's a book
P.O.R.O. right borrow they'll say borrow our Oh Boromir
that Rob me you know from not just if you're writing a book just call it
everyone car our one car do no one fucks up Carl Jimmy neutron add Carl
barometer sour man I guess that's supposed to be some sour sour sour
Sargon it hit Sargon you're pronouncing their names wrong this is why we need to
bring back bullying and start shoving nerds into lockers again that's raw by
the way anything get a long time for me people smelly minds of me Goraia I get
it I'm not John Kemp you really should have
used the Battle of the Black Gate from return of the King instead of Helm's
deep much more directly comparable to end games final battle yep yeah I'd
agree with that there's probably things you can talk about that make one work
and one work less I think you'd absolutely tie the ring to the gauntlet
but again I'd probably be talking about how it's not really the same thing but
you're right though it's definitely more comparable than Helm's fucking deep
smaller dude I have to go on other guys it's an objective mode it's not a death
match mode well dude I hear what you're saying about this guy's video and it's
totally valid and you're right but I mean listen dude people like these
videos I mean come on dude whatever I don't know assuming that yes pretending
to be one of the people that would have defended the video yeah his opinion is
totally valid okay whatever valid oh he said that's an impression of Major Lee
right oh yeah because Major Lee said to us he was like are you guys unaware that
people like TLJ do you remember that he's crazy though like we were just like
okay nothing but okay thanks for that I didn't know that until you just the
counts of that is you do know that people hate TLJ
wait they do well his point was that you had any every time we like disagreed
with certain parts of his arguments he interpreted it as like as if we were
saying that it's not possible to like the film you know the the fucking
mistake everyone seems to make with us that don't like us they're like you're
saying we have to dislike it's like nope no no we've never said that you can like
whatever shitty movies you want that's not our point in your guys opinion
what's your favorite major battle in either a film or TV show
Helms deeps up there Helms deep is up there see whatever I pick I'm gonna be
like I'm forgetting so many obvious ones probably I'd have to look through like
a whole library man like it's good that I know that reference I thought it's I
thought it's I'm in no I was it for a while definitely Ivan
that's what I thought so I'm I'm happy to have had my opinion if I I can't
remember I I could have because it's been so long I thought they changed it
I don't I don't know because it's weird it's Ivan news I just for some reason I
thought it might have been like I'm in because I don't know because it's because
it's Power Rangers and it's funny runners look at this pose a Power Rangers fan
disgusting I'm an yeah I'm proud to say I'm not a Power Rangers fan I'm just I'm
disgusted we're gonna get so much black when that video comes out we're gonna
have so many top comment paragraphs about how wrong we are about Godzilla let
them come let them come an inciting incident doesn't have to be an accident
if that's true I can't remember who said anything that necessarily disagreed with
that could have been us could have been the video I really can't remember but I
agree an inciting incident is just the incident that in begins the everything
else right sites it's almost like it's named after the thing that it is I
agree with that it's it's an incident that incites one might even say if they
were pressed on the issue Ross quoted honestly the big one in my opinion
compelling and then he said I'm gonna kill every English teacher professor on
this planet I think he doesn't like it when they say all those things he did
say in my opinion a whole bunch in that video I was leaving him alone because I
I hate being the guy who constantly rips into people saying in my opinion there's
a nice man but he said that a lot I can't believe you spoiled that that was
raw so I couldn't guess if that was wrong what but some of them aren't
obvious and then you'll be like you'll you'll guess right if I say guess who
that was because who else am I gonna say that about no no no no I always I'm
always ready to guess that a super chat was raw this guy needs the ingredient of
progression as well that's not bad we were saying the video was like almost
progressing and then stopping itself watch Doom Patrol loved it and Alan
I can't remember how to pronounce not seen it no but I've heard of it
apparently Brendan Frasier's in it good boy he needs work especially after the
third Mummy film that's when you knew he needed work he needed help oh we should
we should have a fat movie yeah give it more time when I honestly think about
one year from now and we'll get someone who hasn't seen the film to guess maybe
even two people and rags we will have fun with that movie again I can't believe
how amazingly terrible I wish I could forget all of it I'm never gonna forget
the part where he turned into a big dog beast thing randomly he's like running
across the desert whatever I remember that happening and losing my shit that
film is so bad we're gonna do any fat movies for it eventually which need to
forget it again it's one of the films that we were like oh god we should be
recording watching these
like wish upon everybody should see wish upon wish upon is an amazing film I
can't wait I legit won a sequel yeah I want to I want to wish upon also on to
the public as well like second or like wish upon death wish wish upon what do
you mean like wish upon wish upon huh upset rags why would you do that I don't
understand what you mean well pop what's a puff that's like okay so you know what
on is right yeah and then off is like the opposite of on allegedly so then
wish upon right that's that's one then wish apart is like the opposite of wish
upon
you mean today yes all right well I mean that makes sense to a degree I
suppose the full season is upon us time to bust out the pumpkin spice pumpkin
spice rhino milk I'm not a pumpkin spice rhino and nutritious who's using
Margaret Thatcher's the discord PFP nice to see drinker on again wait a
reference to iron man she was the iron lady she's the iron lady oh she's the
iron lady nice to see drinker on again hi rags hello I'm all a hello I drinker
hello seen how are you doing TIE fighter yet seen ota Kings TIE fighter yet no I
haven't I don't know who ota King yeah should captain Marvel didn't need a time
machine she could have reversed time by flying in the opposite direction of
its rotation she's not Superman that's not how that works super woman is
absolutely how that works how would you know Jay have you done it have you flown
around the world in a different direction and made it spin the away
disgusting times then how come you haven't used all that time to watch
lower the rings yeah cuz I was busy flying around the world I've been
watching it while you fly that's true you could have been doing that you could
have been doing like I was flying faster than light so the light wouldn't have
gone into my eyes I would have like moved further away than I could see it
by the time the light got there why didn't you just watch it and then go
back in time that doesn't work to go back in time that's what I just told you
I think it does work have you ever tried it I have well if it worked then you
were doing it wrong I didn't say it worked nice and slow I just tried but I
think I just shat myself yeah you always shit yourself that's just how it goes I
don't actually always shit myself no if you don't wear clothes yes I think I
think so yeah be all of your leg in your head yeah just shit by mistake and it
goes like on shit by mistake I try to go back to time but it's that I just
shit old bad rags now I gotta I tried to go back in time not to go back to grab
a towel a towel yeah to wipe up all shit wipe up shit with a towel I don't you
see here's the thing I don't normally shit myself I don't know old man rags of
course he's not he doesn't know what's going on yeah what do you think I should
you had shit like on your floor what would you grab to wipe it up a hose to
wipe it up I can just picture it spreading across the whole room he's
just like this is helping no I would just use a napkin because I eat a lot of
meat I eat a lot of meat so my deposits are fairly solid and clean which helps
keep you you know together back there you know so it wouldn't actually be that
big of a deal it's not it's not it's not no it's not
goopy or anything good yeah yeah it's very it's healthy
whole lot of nothing happens ironic he could talk shit about other people's
movies but couldn't do jack-in-the-zone movies ironic please efap everything
please efap everything great about fallen kingdom they unironically defend
the Indo raptor smiling oh how to imagine what they'd say it's like oh
it's such a great little moment good for reasons it's such a great character
moment for the fucking raptor also sub to job of the hut a parody of mundane
Matt job of the hut Wow another Wow another mundane Matt parody channel Wow
I'm gonna say what are they taking the piss out of him all the time must be
really taxing is he still going I'm assuming really tax on I get it oh more
like tax off that's like the thing you did earlier right see I'm evolving as a
critic critic ah double your joke stole it no I didn't jokes first off jokes you
can't steal a joke per se you can just tell it to a new crowd you plagiarize a
joke you could plagiarize a joke you can't steal it can you straw it can you
stroke it can you snort it I think so if you grind it down to do a fine pattern
oh that's it yeah I said the guffin comes from Pulp Fiction if I said that I
didn't mean to say that what I meant is that um people talk about my guffin or
like you'll find like descriptions of it here and there on the internet the
Pulp Fiction one will often be like the prime example the reason why I brought
that up was to try and explain the having a macguffin does not feel bad
like a lot of people yeah look up in bad it's like the ring the ring is a
macguffin or the ring fucking everybody's all about that ring the ring
creates pretty much everything in the plot ring ring
um but is a it is a well-established maga as is the one in Pulp Fiction is the
briefcase they got to get to the you know it's funny because the the one in
Pulp Fiction only applies to certain plot lines like it has nothing to do
with butch's plot line for example he showed the clip as an example of good
rat I'm assuming they're referencing when I was talking about how the visual
of the kicking the rat if you're why would you kick a rat if it's good yeah
you shouldn't kick rats well if you're jealous of its quality then you
shouldn't after it yeah it's a terrible thing to do it's guided and bad thing
so they must be and like widow a misguided and better I'm not saying
oh there oh wait are we are space rats like human not human rats or earth rats
space rats good rats can they be good right now I didn't say human rats I said
space rats you did say human rats no I said human human rags no it's not
there's not a human rags I have a human he keeps me on a well not a short leash
I'm gonna do pretty much whatever the fuck I want I think when I watched end
game my brain did that thing that the minds of little kids do and they get
great where the mind blocks the memory of the entire experience Jade you want
to give a guess oh do you guys not know about the rapist I've only read stories
well the grape is ties you to the radiator and grapes you out somewhere
related to all of us no I'm surprised you guys don't actually know about the
group I just told you I've only read stories
but that is yeah that's that's what it is story the greatest why can't you give
yourself temporary invulnerability when you snap so the gauntlet doesn't kill
you who has the ability to get what you have you have to snap to do that but
then I guess it's too late oh they said like use the gauntlet to be invincible
and then snap but the gauntlet but use the snap to make yourself invincible
it's not like you kill everyone else like a genie lamp though but you can't
it doesn't I don't know if it wouldn't the snap mean that whatever you were
doing to make yourself invincible is now not thing you can do you know I mean
well if you can use the snap to bring every back who's died like five years
ago sure and use it well safe oh you snap I hate to everyone back and then
bring me a dead horse yeah well you know bring me back and then just keep me safe
no we need to have a discussion on the nature of omnipotence oh no
you for that rags cuz they're fucking dumb and wrong yeah there was a whole
epilogue rags and yeah people are like okay you can't you can't if you're
magnificent you still can't make paradoxes happened because they
literally can't happen by like the very nature of what they are you can't make a
lie true anyway to carry on oh before we go down that rabbit hole okay
mauler go to the next video he's just proving himself wrong go to the next
massive
who mo also look at that time those James Moore I'm not I don't know go to
the next video I'm not fighting now the 1993 comic series has a satisfying end
how can the infinity gems destroy the infinity gems they lost me in the first
three minutes of the movie I use the stones to destroy the stones I'm fine
with that yeah that's yeah I don't have a problem at all I have is when she was
like when you take a stone out of our universe we go on a dark pathway it's
like wait so wait what we destroyed allow we lost all six of ours shit come
I guess yeah I want to watch this from the beginning mauler big fans slice and
dice toxic brood check out above the storm on Amazon epic fantasy awaits Wow
epic fantasy awaits in minecraft that's like your opinion yeah no it's not that
is that's actually if the video you guys covered today and the dude joined and
talked yeah but are you saying we should have I had done the next video I was
so unclear on what you mean by that like do you mean we should have somebody
else's yeah I'm entirely certain half of my master thesis just got snapped away
because of file corruption efap is the only thing that keeps me sane right now
excellent I'm really sorry to hear that man he's talking about he's still
everybody's still sane focus on the positive he's still sane I'm still sorry
to hear that I must have been a lot of work I hope he's holding it together
really well you don't this means though it means that the next version will be
even better because all that experience that you've gained and ironically that's
how I used to work again I used to a back before I got obsessed with saving
constantly on Vegas because it crashes like a motherfucker all the time I if I
lost a significant portion of a project I'd be like I'm gonna make it again but
it's gonna be better this time because I knew what I could have made better in
the first time that I'd ended up skipping whatever you stick or faster
ways of doing things or maybe you'll add something that wasn't there before
whatever you end up with it's gonna be better than that old vision that you got
you got snapped so always delete your current version and then just start
again yes because it'll be better not even just the once ten times at least
you know just never finish never finish is the point it's all middle it's never
just never finish when I saw like a shot use the power stone to punch Captain
Marvel I laughed out loud in a very silent theater I was cracking up it was
a beautiful thing it was I enjoyed myself I was grinning ear to ear I was
still just worried she was gonna come back
so this is the account AR they said I completely support miss monopoly just
wish women made more money in real life my wife had to pay a massive amount for
her boyfriend's bail he threw someone off a roof can you believe that no I
can't horrible aha good joke Molina stop playing
Goodell man it would only make sense Goodell is created by looking at video
essays so video essays are going to eventually copy Goodell naturally I mean
it's not so much that Goodell has even created so much as it's it's transferred
yeah so one of the biggest things we'll have when I make the third one and we
watch it is gonna be oh my god people actually did say that I forgot
would you guys rip apart my PC part picker build on air and tell me how bad
it is oh no we if you're if you've got it all built and everything I don't want
hard not to mention that I'm not an expert in which parts do what better
with which parts if you know what I mean like you know though on the subject of
building PCs recently I've been watching some of those old verge PC
build responses yeah that is some gold that was a fun time watching everybody
oh man all those pieces building experts had so much fun with it it was so bad and
he called everyone a racist and all that stuff oh man it was great it's kind of
weird looking back like that actually happened that was the thing yeah the
internet never forgets it's always there okay this is not epic
San Bepiro send the Piero no San Piero the Piero oh Kyle Ben Kyle Ben Piero
these are some cosmic chicken level takes some of them yeah some damn this
do some ironically defending miss monopoly I want someone to find that for
me are you gonna be able to tell if they're rolling or not because you
couldn't you can tell come on you can tell when they mean it I actually can't
many times people kept telling us the majorly was trolling and then he
actually said not everything he says is like to be taken seriously and you know
kind of a troll over and yet I'm still pretty sure he's real no he's totally
real pretty sure he's real genius pretty sure majorly it was just I'm
a fence about remarkable Republic I'm I want to say he's really well I want him
to be real so badly real too I just got to make sure that what I want is concern
for what what fictional characters are gay it's such a like I'm immediately
like are you like super closeted gay like that's the only way I could
explain this yeah desperately wants all these characters to be gay to validate
him you must have built a strictly enforced heterosexual theology on Mars
naturally if he achieved that you like see I'm not gay because I built that who
would build that who is gay come on damn dude says epic more than Tim Sweeney
I get it yes friend of mine sent me pictures he found of rags on episode 6
now I can can't look at rags the same way again episode 6
6 yeah just earlier someone had mentioned how they saw a picture of rags
and while they were having feelings said to say that he's 621 is it e6 what's e6
it oh e6 to 1 is a furry porn website oh my yeah I've got a tag there wonderful
it is MCU phases 1 2 & 3 all culminates in a game of hot potato I don't think
it's asking too much for a little more something character-based to be best
there is character stuff in it just because it's a hot potato which again Jay
I know it's not quite hot potato but you get what was it doesn't mean that it's
not other things
stop the stupid hot potato criticism it doesn't make sense see this video
yesterday glad it's getting efaps it needs to be doesn't work we're happy to
rip into endgame but please do it for the right reasons epic I'm of the
ancient opinion that's saying epic negates the effects of being epic notice
how faith no more never says the word epic in their best song epic but it's in
the title though
endgame would have been better if it didn't have time travel or McGuffins I
Lord of the Rings suffered from it's infinity war isn't McGuffin yep I'm I don't think it is either it's really well
established and well I don't know actually I'm not sure I'm on the
definition of a McGuffin is that it has to be interchangeable
jacks like what it is can't be important to the plot
wait say that again you cut out for a moment so a McGuffin is defined as
something that's just interchangeable it's just an object of desire that
people want so if it's not interchangeable with other objects and it's not a
McGuffin I've always understood my guffin to be super important like super
necessary people use it wrong a lot but like it's well it's something that
drives the plot where are you getting your definition from I saw a video on
fucking wrong calm I was gonna say like I'm not not trying to be pedantic chat
let me out let's try chat was not gonna back you up on this this is ridiculous
an object device in a film or a book which serves merely as a trigger for the
plot it's so exactly yes so it's not well how does that not apply the whole
thing it's not merely a trigger for the plot is it it actually does stuff as a
function I think I think the issue is that here's why I'm on the fence
because I don't think it happens merely for the plot but it does have
properties that are extremely ill-defined until it does something you know like
time stone warp power portals power stuff it's very it's very it's it's
abilities are very very ambiguous yes that's why the pulp fiction one counts
because it doesn't do anything outside of regular plot that the strictest
definition that I am aware of is that it has to be something that you could just
replace with another object because what about that one well because like
apparently people do consider the ring and the holy grail from Indiana Jones to
be McGuffins no well that's not my point my point is that if you take all
of the generally considered things and put them together it's like oh it just
seems to be that people are looking at super important individual objects that
the the film revolved around or the story revolves around so if people are
you but but if you want to be more specific about a definition and a source
that is differently specific then yeah it may or may not apply to end game
all Lord the Rings all and and to be fair the dictionary is descriptive not
prescriptive so that's true as well oh yeah well all we're looking for is the
typically understood at this point right I mean well I don't know this is
interesting maybe we should get like random every time we have a guest or
maybe whenever we bring someone on the next few efaps maybe we can ask them
just just kind of off the head super cash was what is a McGuffin to you
because we did this with nitpick right and we were kind of surprised at how
many people just you know so I think that would be an interesting thing to
maybe carry forward in the next few efaps Rags if the dictionary is
descriptive what does literally mean it means some bullshit
the exception to that is the fact that no I will not accept that I will not
accept that I will not accept that literally means figuratively that's
fucking insane well what is it actually so I draw the I draw the line at
absurdity oh but but why do you get to decide what I draw because I draw the
line at my my subjective interpretation of absurdity I think I will not accept
that a thing means it's opposite unless it's used in sarcasm well that was I
was gonna say from what I understand I don't know I'd have to check the
dictionary but doesn't it mention the idea that it's like it could be used to
mean the opposite but only in like in hyperbole like not I know I will not
accept the dictionary as an authority if it's saying anything but the thing is
you wouldn't have to use any word hyperbole that's the yeah that's what I'm
getting that is the that's acceptable that it would but like billions and I
actually meant there were a hundred that would still yeah that's fine yeah that's
fine yeah that's fine but I don't think that saying literally in place of
figuratively is being hyperbolic because it's not about degrees it's not
about the it's not about degrees it's about it's an it's a completely the
opposite but it's also yeah exactly Jay what I was gonna say though it would
actually be helpful for like an alien because they'd be like what are they
keep saying literally when it's not true from what I understand is another
dictionary is like oh they will use it for emphasis sometimes while not being
true and they'll be like to emphasize what
the severity of the thing I guess you trying to get out the fact that it's
binaries you can't have a degree instead of literally for emphasis say fucking
for emphasis yes fucking fantastic well the thing is I'm still on rags team I
fucking hate how much people use the word I despise they use it all the time
because they can't come up with more emphasizing words yeah because and plus
it doesn't ruin one word it ruined two now but now you've corrupted literally
and figuratively and you don't even if you look at the sentences that have it
in there for typically from these video essays or whatever else just drop the
word and the sentence is just fine it didn't need it it just didn't need it
never met one person who's like no it's good that we can use this really like
exactly no literally means literally yeah that's why I put my paws down on it
all four of them I'm not gonna accept that literally means literally and also
the opposite of literally that is absurdity of the highest order and I
will not stand for it well yeah and the only way that I guess that I was gonna
give it to the dictionary if the district specified people use it wrong
sometimes if the dictionary was like fucking idiots on the planet earth use
it incorrectly I mean yeah exactly they do don't they dick I get it because you
could shorten the dictionary to dick can't shorten this dick also endgame
would have been better if it didn't have time travel I mean I pretty much agree
with that but not in the way that like no story should have time travel I guess
cuz I don't want to be that guy who says it cannot really really easily how make
it so that there is no affecting the past and it's literally all it's
literally just like a copy of the past and as soon as they leave that copy
disappears disappears disappears they don't interact with it again it's and
they come back to it that's fucked up morally because you take we try to save
our own universe but you're taking their shit though you're taking their
gems you got to give them back why they won't need them okay the whole reason
for all of this is to save us and you're gonna create another one to suffer while
you save yours it's like what the fact that the fact that the stones have been
taken out of that you know the only thing that changes is Thanos can't destroy
it no he would just do it no mama conventional means or mama would fuck
that universe up yeah oh yeah I forgot I forgot that literally nonsensical
plot of strange forgettable movies and just for the chat for the chat when we
rated all of the imps objective we put dr. strange below everything else it was
the very bottom yeah didn't we I believe we did well I think that would
honestly take like potentially two to three hours of discussion but we could
do a whole thing where we rank all of the MCU movies twice give it on stream
I mean it's still yeah but it's still it's still for we have done it before
I know but it's so that they can know all of the things that we consider
really tismy about all the movies can you just copy paste our conclusions
that's so much easier but then they couldn't want to know how we got there
what's the point oh yeah because they'll be like homecoming's at the top I can't
remember the way shit they'll be very upset but different people to review the
MCU characters will review the MCU characters oh you just me and me and
wolf did a stream no we didn't do a stream on that me you and was it me
fringy and wolf me fringy and somebody we were like ranking the MCU
characters in one of those little tier list things you suggested to me that
like the I'm like a you're not talking about the same I don't want anyone to
know about yet right what thing you don't want anyone you know about it as
well I've talked to you about it but I know about it well can you DM me to
remind me wait I don't I could do I could I'll remove the people from the
group no you can just DM me we have fucking shut the fuck up I'm gonna try
and DM you both at the same time DMS on discord I'm gonna do you both on
discord with your friends shut the fuck up damn you both now why would I DM you
both separately Oh give us a shit if Jay knows if Jay doesn't know he can't steal the bean
well cuz apparently I'll give away secrets on a big stream he doesn't even have to
know the secrets to give them away what a manager I explained this quickly and
I'm like no way how do I explain this quickly I'm just thinking if you
definitely didn't tell me that you didn't want people to know about this I
can't remember remember I'm so I remember the idea is I was just
struggling to put words to it
and is the yeah I definitely spoke to rags about it because I had an idea of
where he would fit in yes that is the thing to which I was referring yes I
actually reason I don't want to mention this because I'll get asked about it
every fucking day for the rest of my life that's why until it's until I would
be done I wouldn't want to I don't even even after reading your description I
actually don't know what you're referring to still oh well I can I can go
into more detail once we post stream we can when we go live no the opposite of
Jay doesn't know either oh he does no I do no no you don't I will go over it I
wrote it through the stream it's okay and then everybody think in it that that
is nonsensical everyone in the in the efap chat is gonna be so frustrating
because they're gonna think this is so like an amazing secret and when it's
really not but I think it's pretty neat I think it's neat too but I don't talk
about it cuz I'll get asked about it every day for the rest of my life like I
said I'll get asked about it every day of my life from now mola when when is
that you said about mola when's TFA pot 3 more wins up so too many a Genesis rage
mola when's when you're gonna praise predator when you're gonna praise alien
ah you ever pooped on someone when you're gonna review all the games you said
we're gonna review what's Hill House review ball died it was just raid of
parallel universe for the videos on parallel oh molar you're such a nasty
daddy typical suggestion from yeah you go and take something from another
universe and not care about how that universe does without it that was a
pretty good reference session yeah killed it okay so hello we spell this one
the super chat leave the dead as is and build up to a fight with the Thanos
we've come to know the problem is if you went from Infinity War then you have to
have your Thanos be damaged I guess you could probably try and undo that with
the stones he like heals himself with the stones or something
and yeah use the stones to heal the stones if I was to do it I would just
completely rewrite endgame at that point because I'd want to restructure it all
but yeah I agree though that the time travel damages it referring to the
gauntlet as a McGuffin if we were to agree with that it is a McGuffin I still
don't think it damages the film by being one I think the problems are different
from anyway I think when he says the hot potato game isn't epic he's saying it's
done in a way that's too playful and not dire tense and epic enough I kind of
see what he's saying it's like the Ewoks in return of the Jedi's end I don't know
I I don't think I agree to me yeah came across is really desperate to me yeah
um oh my god can you please prove your points and not just definitively say
something is epic that's subjective that's what I was saying it depends on
how you objective is epic though if you wanted to say of large-scale in relation
to what we have seen previously I'd be like okay well we can definitely define
that but if you just say epic means to be blown away in an all sense so be like
well yeah we're gonna do someone could be blown away by like nail they're like
insane but whoa snail hey kid you want to see my give us the secret no see now
that we've talked about a secret exists we have to make up a not secret thing to
tell them just so that they stop asking for it but lucky I didn't say that life
you can easily debunk his whole argument by saying well I found it epic I
imagine if he was here and we'd actually said that he would have been like yeah
I'm not saying that people wouldn't find it epic that's what he said no is that
what he said I don't know I don't think we actually asked that you know what is
truly epic the stream so here you go slice and dice brothers also high regs
oh thanks hello and I'm glad you think that the stream is epic
bruh this nai bar recommending save the cat to the Russo's that's literally the
first book I was given at my first agency internship there literally every
degenerate in the towns read that damn book well maybe it's a good book then I
don't know about this guy say that he wasn't an expert and then he was telling
the Russo's well he did he say something like you know it's never too
late like no no one can ever be at the point where they can't learn anything
new being he's being nice like I said I think I said he should have led with
that instead of leading with whose kids learn it's like no don't say that why
you said they did a great job overall anyway
audible you get to listen to women I'd be like it'd be like going to John
Williams and asking him if he'd heard of this thing called do re mi fa so la t
de Williams never could have a tempo this hack should be starved to death no
no even thrown off a roof right well you have to earn that the right to be
thrown off the roof nicest thing anyone's probably have to be high up for
it you get a task summary with a sponsorship deal in which they specify
certain pieces you have to spell out loud obvious or not I deal with those all
the time sucks but a paycheck is a paycheck what what is that referencing
what is that talking about you get a task summary with a sponsorship deal in
which they specify certain pieces you have to spell out loud is this a super
chat for a different stream that's about the audible actually
that's if I certain thesis you have to spell out they're not gay but $20 is
$20 I'm gay so that's just that's just icing on the cake I guess it is to do
with audible I'm just curious how that works I don't know ask summary task
summary would make sense yeah they have a bunch of things they want you to do
but read certain maybe it was supposed to be phrases
allow maybe obvious or not okay and yeah I again I don't have a problem with that
necessary I just find some ways people do ads to be funny
did you fight stuckman yesterday epic I mean I sent a bunch of tweets about his
ideas about I love so Chris was like hey filmmakers work really hard never
forget that you can't exist without them as a film critic and my response was
basically because he says something about like a relationship buys respect
also seven and my take over all was just like fuck this like there are plenty of
filmmakers who do not give a shit to inherit franchises and fuck with them or
people who just own it in like there are directors out there who are like
yeah I'll just direct whatever paycheck and then you comparatively you'll have
some content creators who go nuts with their work and do their very best to
create entertaining and informative work so it's certainly not absolute like
that it's like a one-way street sort of thing and I said as well that some
filmmakers are inspired by critics so it's definitely not as simple as he's
making a sound yeah and I mean like ideally a critic you know should help
the medium um but yeah some people responded like the most critical
responses I got was stuff like like that they took it as though I was saying that
it's the reverse of what Chris was saying as in it's all about the critics
and the movie makers aren't that important at all and I was just like no
I was just saying that it goes both ways of the idea that we have to bow down to
the filmmakers as if like well we couldn't exist without you it's like
what the fuck and the film critics did I just do something else I was gonna say
if no films existed no media I mean we even talk about a world like that
doesn't make sense you'd have to go as far as saying no media exists cuz I
would just say okay I'd be talking about games more or TV more I love me hey
when are you gonna do a game review I'll have to ask Rags you'll know when we're
doing that Rags well I've got you scheduled down for March 2021 for your
one thing so yeah maybe maybe by the time Half-Life 3 comes out you'll have
enough yeah but but a lot of people were ripping into Chris Tuchman for that
because it's like the last thing that people want to hear is like respect TLJ
because Ryan still would have worked hard to make it you're like well maybe
that would have carried more weight if Ryan wasn't a fucking prick I mean I was
talking about on the erotic stream I was like okay so if people worked really
hard to build you a house like rickety and fell apart after a few days like you
really gonna have them say hey respect the fact that I still worked hard on
this and that you wouldn't have a house to complain about if I didn't build it
yeah and what if somebody works really they don't work hard but make something
great do they not like how does that work and people still pay to see a lot
of work went into the Holocaust like what that's not the kind of shit you
just whip up in an afternoon like people still pay to see something like TLJ and
if they paid to see something they love get destroyed it's like oh but respect
the fact that he worked on it just like this is people can work hard on
something horrible yeah it's almost like the amount of effort doesn't
necessarily matter it just often correlates with the end product many
times yeah sure often ways to sort of point out how something would have
required that hard work that they committed like a process or do you know
I'm thinking about stuff like big yeah that have loads of yeah like loads of
running things at the same time like you know be it specials like like like
actors on strings or getting a camera to flow through a scene that it shouldn't
necessarily be able to like I think it's from the raid I can't remember or the
film way like there's a car the car chase where camera goes through a car
and onto another one and there's like a behind-the-scenes showing of it where
it's the camera the physical camera goes through the car and people pass it
through to each other and there's a guy in the car dressed as a car seat he's
dressed as a car seat yeah and he is able to carry it through it's all
filmmaking it's the kind of shit we just like oh it's such a cool thing you did
anyway do not try and bend the see-saw that's impossible instead only try to
realize the truth there is no see-saw and you'll see that it is not the see-saw
that bends it is only yourself I was from raw by the way I don't expect that
kind of stuff from wrong oh it was beautiful a wise baby once told me as we
changed the diaper the diaper also changes us take this and eat pea nor
rags oh really how much was it $2 okay so I so in your mind what kind of pea
nor do you think I'm gonna be getting for $2 it's like $1 40 I guess cuz of
YouTube takes a cut so yeah what can you be getting for what dollar 40 oh man
right right now I'm probably not gonna get any high quality pea nor in a
privy in some back alley somewhere Captain Marvel arrives creating dread
basically if app has finally kicked mauler reference exit the discord call
oh yeah the final boss of the fab mauler so mauler have you seen the loved
ones if not please see with wolf it's a proper psychological horror that is the
only film idea people to watch the loved ones the loved ones we don't know
anything about that on the yeah because we're orphans you know well movie I'll
check out the trailer and if it if it tickles me fancy I might have a look
closer look just 66 discord very dangerous putting these two Brits
together it's a revenge the Sith reference nice I like the rags as a
savage while everyone else is being nice all right rags what do you think about
that I wasn't being savage I was just asking appropriate questions at
appropriate time I mean he did he did he say well boys like rags I'm funny a
gentleman why you grilling me I can't say cuz he missed you's literally yeah
and again I was trying to say it's it's a big pet peeve you can't be doing that
well everything's got a stand for something absolutely well we've seen
Code Geass if so what do you think of euphemia incident latency more like code
gay ass yes I have seen it my conclusion on it was that I liked a lot of the
concepts the ideas and stuff I think the execution of it was a lot of there's a
lot of tisms in there and is the euphemia emu I think that is that the
one where she she kills everyone remain vaguely vague is that is that what that's
referencing chat is that is that the stupid like I don't make fun of Code
Geass on this game do I have to why not yes I'm gonna tell you you two haven't
seen it I'm guessing and probably won't no while no I won't I'm gonna tell you
about this but I'm also gonna say that despite how silly this sounds you know
it's not it's not entirely a bad thing to check out the show it's it's pretty
cool but um basically this guy is a geass is like a power and he can tell a
person to give them like a command of some kind only once the idea is like and
save his life he can get access to things you can do a lot of stuff you
could and basically they're trying to they want to write it so that a tragedy
can happen with that power but he wouldn't do it on purpose because he's
not that bad of a person and again I watched this years ago so I'm gonna be
paraphrasing here but basically what happens is he wants to make a joke I
think it's a joke about how the person he's standing he's in the room with
would kill all Japanese people I think and like his geass goes off like it
works on here and so she gets brainwashed into wanting to kill all
Japanese people and she actually like goes outside with the machine gun and
starts shooting everybody that sounds like a big oopsie it's like I remember
watching that's not no that's not an epic gamer and well it sounds like wish
upon sequel when I was watching it with Alex cuz he was showing me he was
setting it up as being like oh this bit like oh no we have to watch this bit and
I was like okay and it's just I guess it's considered with fans about fans
about the show even recognize it as that thing it's not good it's really fully
written but there's some awesome stuff in code yes I just remember that that
would have been the biggest issue I would have had with the show I remember
because it sets in motion a whole bunch of other stuff but it's so stupid anyway
drinker you're objectively wrong about Midsummer yeah he didn't like Midsummer
at all is that like a movie or it is oh you mean like the middle of summer like
the season it is the movie from the guy who made her editor like I'm patty to
Midsummer stay and I've had mixed things on Midsummer and the mixed things in
terms of the negatives come from drinker and I think red letter media were very
middling on it I have some intention to see it but I'm not too bothered to be
honest with you I guess like you could say I've been put off by certain review
probably sad to hear for some people I will try and check it out at some point
maybe like to be I can these things you know I like to be they kind of forgot
about vision also spider-milk did null from Kiwi farms is a goddamn hero I
don't know I don't know who that is rags enjoy your stream with logic oh thank
you I'm glad that someone did mm-hmm great to see critical drinker on here
again make him a host well for now it's a good one rotating the guest to read
nice to get him back on as well as it will be for a bunch of people I feel like
if we made a white person the host we would be disenfranchising potentially a
person of color mm-hmm any person of woman in a person of woman a woman of
person been watching before if I've had its name wasn't able to make it to 50
lives here's some extra money wait taxon called you mediocre and pretentious so I
guess I shouldn't watch you anymore um have you ever caught a person who takes
Eric taxon to heart yeah typically if taxon tells you not to watch a thing
check it out what it's like give it a shot it's the same guy with the epic
accent yeah quite sound the closer looks video is a bit wishy-washy but he's a
treat to listen to when he's talking to you guys bring him away fab as a guest
also hi Rex I'm on board hello I am on board yeah I'm sure he would make an
interesting I will try and send him some messages between now and where and
everywhere are we able to get him on I hope he's forthcoming about maybe
checking out some videos lie with us we'll have to see I would like him to be
somewhat happy with with with the fab rather than become another one of our
villains we just got too many villains you know any more heroes your job as
manager he's was to find us more heroes yeah many heroes and you just didn't
get any of them on like who uh Shreg who rag he's the guy who did have you seen
the conclude the world war trilogy video yeah if he's up for being yes that'd be
funny I guess he'd be great um for each of you what's your favorite film big
epic battle favorite TV big epic battle and why we kind of had that
question before couldn't really answer it's complicated I mean there are a
couple of TV epic battles Game of Thrones is a bunch T here and the BP but
it's a complicated question so I'd have to look through all of content I
probably start with like Google searching best battles and then have a
look at a bunch of the suggestions cuz I off the top my head would just pick
some obvious ones I wouldn't be surprised at the lot of a lot of them
were terrible movies they just have like a good battle scene in them oh the final
oh the last samurai there are some yeah good shit in there I remember that being
fun it'll be more of a game of keep away yes rather than keep away yeah here's
some dollar for all the great content these stream such videos have helped me
through some rough times as well as helping my creative writing cheers no
problem well thank you very much I don't know if you heard but Milo is going to
MFF and the fairies are mad his character is cute though all hmm Milo
Yiannopoulos yeah Milo Yiannopoulos is going to Midwest for Milo the tweenie
Milo the Yiannopoulos Milo house you know been trying to match drinkers alcohol
consumption four hours in my brain feels fuzzy I mean if you were going by a sharp
here epic yeah fuzzy or que no la diaron a estrano el piedre de tiempo para salva
at Tony oh hola hello they said oh hola rags oh hola
go muy estas muy bien and now to translate what they said in the first
part why didn't they give stranger the time stone to save Tony dr. strange yeah
the thing is all of them could do it Captain Marvel could have put on that
thing and timed stone stoney they could have used the time stone on Tony yeah a
bunch of got stoned gonna be really funny though if they started to do you
know like how Thanos turns his hands as he does the time thing to turn it back
imagine they start doing that on Tony and then people start coming back from
being dusted you know the the Thanos are we they're like oh oh I see right so if
we bring him back it's going to bring that back
everybody stand next to all of them as they're coming back in the dust to stab
them in the back of the head as soon as they reformed so that we can save Tony
okay everyone get in position good work and go it's like tosspot but bad oh well
at least he's not reading gay bestiality fanfics like toss pop a bad what are they
what do you think that's a reference it's like tosspot but bad oh I guess he
was referring to the fanfiction that a closer look was talk oh okay hey more
than Chan watched Hill House and it was fun the mystery buildup at the end that
delved into space and time traveling was cool I guess you could yeah you could
refer to is that way and the conclusion of the bent neck lady loved it well I'm
glad you loved it I look forward to not only rewatching that show but to talking
about it eventually I'll get there well I haven't actually finished it so if you
want to watch it with me we can do that absolutely I'd love any excuse to rewatch
that show oh yeah just just let me know I know apparently you don't like you
don't want to watch Godzilla 1999 or whatever that game out I actually I
actually do you got lots to watch Matthew Broderick he sounds like a young
deoxys oh they just referring to closer look he just sounds like boxes no he
doesn't think boxes are very upset by that he does um
Infinity War great endgame trash perfectly balanced oh these when you
review videos instead of read sycophantic super chats or cringe memes
all day oh and I can't control people put in super
chats I'm just reading them yeah and some some of them are not sycophantic
some of them are very angry and some of them are very critical some are very funny
you never know what you'll get with super chats I was about to say your one
is very critical apparently also bridge beams all day I I beg to differ we have
top memes on this podcast the cream of the crop best memes also more comment
trees with Alex would be sweet cheers we do want to make more it's just a matter
of trying to find time of when he and I are both free and which film to do that
sort of thing but um hopefully you enjoyed the coverage of the closer
looking um off rah Mohammed Ramadan just said off rah is he referring to like off
him room off something yeah maybe yeah that's what that would be my guess bro
when the cannons pointed up I knew it'd be Captain Ma Dyke but as a point a part
of me was praying you would be ravages and Nova force so badly yeah I I
literally I seriously thought it'd be Nova Corps I really did well didn't they
say that Nova got like wiped out by Thanos I don't know they're still be
happy no no no I mean superheroes we'd never met before because they were wiped
out because Thanos came for the Zanda yeah sorry because they had the did they
have the power stone they have the power stone right so he would have you
to fuck them up to get to it I guess but yeah no I guess we there's there's
plenty of ways you could try and reason that well some left it would make sense
that there was superheroes we haven't met yet in the universe so fuck it it
would just have been better for there to be like loads of like anything else man
though they probably wouldn't want to do that because they would lock themselves
into a lot of things like if they had a bunch of heroes show up that we don't
recognize and are played by like important actors to a degree like just
most cameo stuff like well now you're there just loads of people in mass
yeah it's complicated to set up and then they might think halfway through doing
it like why are we doing this instead of focusing on the ones we actually know
because the ones we actually know are Captain Marvel they think she's good they
think she's good they think that no or do they think it's money Wow you think
that they only have women to make money yes yeah rags what's your favorite race
on earth I mean in war hammer well I'm not a huge war hammer guy but I I guess
you the Imperium of man would be my favorite I don't know I don't know them
too much though but that's so that's a very contentious thing that I like so I
need to explore them in further detail I just realized this image of the ship
getting BTF owed by Ma die get so reminiscent of the supremacy getting
hold out and I guess yeah cuz the shot through it kind of starts with like one
big line where was the dawn during the final battle apparently wasn't allowed
in he was saving all the orphans there was a lot of orphans to save yeah think
of the people who got dusted on a cruise ship coming back they would all be
drowning he'd have to save all the orphans of that cruise ship I swear
there's something in the movie that shows us that people get dusted back in
like smart places rather than literally where they were when you say that you
mean we don't see anybody get undusted in the movie do we you see it in I swear
I swear I remember having this conversation before someone mentioning
something and when you're like all right that makes sense all Iron Man says it's
like make sure you bring back everybody who's dusted I don't think he says like
bring them back safe spaces the fact yeah but the fact that the they're
coming back at all like on the earth there's a way that they're like it's
clearly figuring out where to put them somehow well it's not just you're
exactly the point of space they were remember far from home implies that they
just get dropped back where they from where they were which when you consider
the earth moving it becomes pretty confusing as to how the the time stone
all well all the stones would figure that out but let's just say okay fine
they put back where they were what about people on planes and cruises even cars
just dropped in the middle of the road well if they were counts is in the plane
or in the car so they're if the plane is in part yeah what if there are people on
that plane they're in the laps oh no I mean maybe that's gonna lead to some
interesting you know relationships you know mom's a lapse only weakness Captain
Marvel has is rogue everyone really wants them to introduce rogue and have
rogue take all of Captain Marvel's powers away that'd be cool I'm on board
with this I would love that
I think there are other characters that challenge Captain Marvel Oh misteria good
I take back what I said about starving this guy for plugging save the cat that
Captain Marvel teleport idea in major points from me what brah why would you
wanted to kill the ship still bad rah I'm just imagine you spraying raw with
like a water bottle the negative part of the sandwich is having to smack her if
she messed it up oh course that's wrong 2018 in film is better than 2019 in
film your thoughts I don't think we'll ever have a worse year than 2018 it was
awful we had a bazillion terrible movies come out the 2019 hasn't been great
though I absolutely could see that say that but then you're just challenging
years to beat it it might happen the 2018 was really bad yeah there were lots
of bad ones I said I'd be drunk and then I did salad salad King getting too drunk
he's felt that with a bunch of extra 2018 was Cloverfield paradox
hot son and what Watson and Holmes and hot son Watson and Holmes there was
Slender Man
Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom the predator black panther like compared to
the rest of us like oh yeah he's about as bad as full in kingdom I wouldn't say
that I would
strip hole I know they lost infinity wall because they were separated by
ironically enough that compartmentalization was the biggest
strength of infinity walls fights strange visits Thanos was God's here in
endgame strangers a glorified damn agreed who'd agree glorified damn yeah
though he just holds the water didn't he oh I think they still could have made it
work but I get that compartmentalizing them into teams was definitely a plus
in terms of nice to see straight light Squidward again agreed around star is
such a godly song from a godly soundtrack but hearing it reminds me of
my orchestra friends playing it for my prom ask in high school five years ago no
they five five fucking butchered it because it's one of those songs that
really required requires you to nail it you can't play it okay like you have to
absolutely nail it now I feel like I'm on a rotting old corpse
could someone suicide bomb by holding a stone possibly yeah I guess they could
like the power stone yeah they definitely seem to nuke guys it is it'd
have to it'd have been based if the Avengers killed Thanos in the first five
minutes and then just spent the rest of the movie getting old struggling with
the demons like Logan
that's that's a different movie show this is for the kick I'm gonna I'm gonna
drop out oh that's convenient I was gonna say that's perfect timing what is
that the last super chat no it just no it's just said it should kick Jay oh he
wants to leave so good I want to do is a little shit well bamboozled it rags
so in chat said but 2018 still had some good ones like mortal engines oh yeah
mortal engines came out have you seen that no but it's really saying it was
terrible right might be worth might be worth a watch with an e-fap movie there
maybe there was some maybe because there was some potential there man
that's a lot of money you fat movies by onical trilogy when greetings rag hello
greetings question about the soul stone what happens if two characters who go to
get it don't love each other they fucked yes yeah I guess you don't you
don't get the yeah you don't get it which is don't get the soul stuff yeah I
just kind of just worked out that was the way it worked out
Morley a gay Wow also an Arkham series which is the best I loved Arkham City I
only ever played Arkham Asylum in city that I did you play any of the Arkham
games I think I played Arkham City very briefly and I remember just not caring
about it I played it for a little bit and I was just like this didn't impress
me and the game act three is a mess could not give a crap thanks to 2014
Thanos being a poor boring purple alien that RLM was worried he would be an
infinity wall yeah I think it's a fake criticism rags I poop with my doors open
um all right I mean I I normally if I do have to go inside then I generally do
close the door even if I'm alone just me so just I don't know how everyone else
feels about it but yeah a lot of people I like to poop with the door closed
if I if I'm in a bathroom pooping you know I was arguing my brother about this
movie and I told him your valids are in argument with mauler's voice in my
let me turn off my AC real quick all right watch the rest tomorrow question
thoughts about pineapples do they taste good do they belong on pizzas and do they
make your man milk taste good that's a question for Google last one do they
belong on pizza absolutely not it's actually breaking the verse the more
people do it and not a fan of pineapple in general check out angry joe's latest
star wars video I enjoy efaps and your work mauler I know he made a new stuff
have a look yeah glad you enjoy it and keep up the good work as you've taught
me a lot yeah I mean keep at its hard work it's all very good accuracy
references and it says high rags I'm here they just said high rags you know in
a super chat oh hello hi make it up for that epic gay store guys you can't say
that yeah epic epic gamer Avengers epic game please check out the problem with
Disney fans by offhand Disney tons of jelly man calls s Star Wars fans toxic
just battle around all right oh yeah sure I'll have a look see jelly man that
would that would be what what I said when you make a straw man that's really
like just the worst thing it's not even close to your argument sort of thing
and it's like a jelly man just falls apart immediately
right Quinton made lots of jelly men remember when he said that you said the
fucking things that just would not what you said at all so it's not it cuz like
straw bed usually imply that you made a weaker version but what is it would they
just take something you said and generate an argument that isn't is not
only terrible but really doesn't match what you said it's a jelly man a jelly
man a rag is it harder to is it harder to beat a straw man or a jelly well the
idea is the jelly man just falls over you don't even need to hurt it but uh
some people are so bad that they can be defeated by drawing jelly men they
create that's that's the best times when they don't counter the fake argument they
create efficiently they fuck it up that's funny that it happens to the
straw man but then they fuck you were defeated by their own man then it makes
us defend a point that was never made by anybody we just have to assume the
position that we never took to defend it just on the ground being principled hi
rags oh hey there hello if endgame made you cry
a silent voice might no will make you cry more a silent voice earlier I just
I just endgame really made me cry like I was a I was a fucking wreck in that
movie theater I'm glad it was dark because I'm just saying my father
wouldn't have not been proud of hi guys longtime fan 100% unrelated but did you
know sans from undertale is in smash bros people are really excited I
recommend internet reacts to sans in smash if you get the chance long
was undertale a I guess it's on switch right so I guess they could put it I guess
yeah that's how it crossed over because the first thought I had there was like
Nintendo crossing over with undertale yeah I guess it's on I guess it's in
smash yeah it's pretty cool I don't I've never played undertale I don't know
anything about it I just know he's the skeleton he's one of the skeletons from
undertale you know sans means without I believe
is it weird that my favorite part of these podcasts is Jay now I'm not I
think it is wrong not gonna judge you but I am I'll think about it hello say
my name will get the gay his name is a not see on the internet
say it fast sounds like something else oh look it's my mate a not a not see what
a not see I don't understand the like a national socialist on the internet a not
a not see oh oh like a Nazi yes also thanks for the guy like us for the meme
Leah get J and V on a live stream together it would be a very short stream
why what's the implication there kill each other who oh I guess they both be
kicked that's the joke J and V can someone make a meme of Leonidas from 300
kicking J into the pit place it's so interesting you had like the J is their
favorite thing and then loads of things about how J is the worst thing ever what
am I supposed to make of this
if movie Bob joined the Columbine shooters would they be the three
musketeers
I have to consult Google how would I know the answer that implies that he would
actually have a chance at nailing a shot I pictured movie Bob being unable
to wield any kind of weapon he'd be like oh yeah he's he's large but definitely
not strong large but not in charge that Twitter art in his own mind he thinks he
should be in charge of the world and I'm happy that he doesn't have that Twitter
art looks like a maula Pez dispenser the long man one yes it's wonderful hi J
also fuck you J also hi rags oh hey imagine being assigned to the USS hello
n words
pop it on the rest of resume the purpose of this super chat is simply to say hi
rags I I just want to point out this is amazing this is actually amazing I'm
excited now so if you go to the efap dot me slash the Star Wars poll you'll
know to know that if here I'll actually link you because I want you here's the
link I want you to go down to hold those picture
wait one vote for holdover from logic then it's gonna link to discord no the
picture of holdo oh a force coast yeah cuz he's dead so he made the fucking
force come back it's amazing the kind of effort and notice notice that the
pictures have the words in the Star Wars font yeah there's so much work that goes
into this I was gonna say like it's in the description for all the streams
going forward now but you guys if you like efap you can get lost in the
website for a bit wow they have is the Celtic voted for rose really yeah again
with the whole cameos thing but I don't mind they could put all the votes on the
website as well it's not like it's a huge deal it's gonna be weird that we're
eventually gonna get the answers of this but nothing's really gonna happen we'll
just be like oh yeah these people know we gotta come up with some kind there's
got to be like we do I don't know something I don't know what we do but we
have some time to think about it I think it's interesting when it has the most
votes like when it turns out that it is Hux because it will be Hux which I myself
and robot head voted for because we have mark you have good steak in it because
from what I've heard there's a potential for Hux turning out to be a double agent
apparently oh yeah you got it you got a good steak there that would explain why
he's I can't believe they're trying to explain his insane stupidity it still
doesn't make sense because he's obsessed with killing them in TLJ he's like I
know why aren't we firing and why aren't the TIE fighters doing blah blah blah it's
like if he was hell-bent on getting everyone killed you'd be a terrible
double agent it's like Hux you're not supposed to try and kill us it's like
you can't his kind of incompetence sides he's just gonna go with whoever wins
yeah I don't know what they'll do is do so much fun to talk about episode I
just gonna fuck up everything again I can't wait I'm so excited for good luck
JJ for all the wrong reasons anyway alien comics is strange planet also
high-rags hey hello so the efab HQ is Mount massive asylum I'm okay with that
it makes sense JJ Abram said that the ending of episode 9 was the most
challenging thing he's worked on in his whole career not surprised it'll
probably be trash it's probably gonna be the fucking sequence of Star
Destroyer planet destroyer things fighting an enormous fleet from the good
guys while an epic fight between Ray and Kylo is happening or the Emperor while
something else is happening with Finn and Poe and Rose or something like it's
gonna be all these kinds of epic things happening epically everywhere epicless
epic epic epic thanks to all who've been watching my geeks and gamers videos
there's a 60 FPS vision of my forced unleashed video force unleashed video
linked in the description please watch it it looks way better also higher eggs
hello that's from mark the sidewalk who is now putting out some videos for
geeks and gamers ah hello rags hey there give me a dank 40k fact um did you know
of the Emperor is always right I rags and co hello blessed it was that blessed
is the mind too small for doubt
a quote from okay I think so you recommend a random film mmm masquerade
you've already recommended it before something new all right how about the
imaginarium of dr. Parnassus and Shrek and Shrek most people have seen Shrek
but if you haven't see Shrek correct you and then stop the Hygol thing reminds me
Theo should do more ephaps he has a very based and calming voice best on ephap
maybe Oh Ross Ross literally you know raw is your biggest fan some fighting
words well it was from raw some what you will
uh-huh manga manga is read from right to left you
massive how am I supposed to know that I'm from Britain why why would they do
that why we had a so we had such a great system going on over here and they just
got to be bugging different oh you guys do that we're gonna do the
opposite that's it hey there guys happy to get some Swedish representation on
your show so progressive forest and holla for tear I'm sure he would say
holla right back
long man what does your nose unlock well it would be telling wouldn't it
that's a super secret surprise started watching Buffy season one is a little
rough so far but I'm enjoying it got through the robot demon and puppet
episode last night whiskey helped season one is rough robot demon is a
really embarrassing episode robot demon I might make you watch Buffy one day
ranks maybe and we can enjoy that together oh yeah maybe grinding desk
brother dog nail ultra swim cubicle glomerius art Park disgusted spit
guiltless guiltless crowded dirt mitosis pelvis tea garden gold milk fillet
that's a lot of words it is a lot of words rags would still win miss
monopoly improve the innate superiority over of the dog over women dogs are
better than women though well we all knew that I just assumed that even when
hampered in the rules of Miss monopoly would it still be true and apparently
so I mean who would you rather fuck well no who would you rather have as a
best friend a woman or a dog like the dog would be like the dog is the obvious
answer yeah they have that saying apparently it's best friends so I'm
really my hands are tied I might pass out before you do super chats later
massives good night and see y'all in the next one see y'all the next one oh don't
leave us alone with the fairies what also baller's a gas furry that's a thing
a gassy I guess a gas men furry gasmen will you ever do an endgame video in the
future I'm not against it but I don't have any intention to do it soon a lot
of people keep commenting on some of my videos saying looking forward to the end
game praise slash rage like I never said I was making one
um unless I did in my Infinity War one which I now take back if I did I don't
think I did phrase and rage is $5 for my homies over the pond flex on damn bitch
is mauler all right ha ha ha we he funny funny ha ha how we we rip we see Kyle
hair mauler the crawling Fuhrer crawling Fuhrer I don't understand crawling as in
like crawl to crawl yeah I don't know man the high search for Captain Marvel on
18 plus sites was apparently because there was a pirated version of the film
there so yeah I don't even want to go out of their way to watch that though
also hi rags hello and kick J well your wish has come through we did it we did it
ourselves a mozzarella sticks pizza if it's served with sauce
hmm what no I think what makes a pizza is much more complicated than that
all the mozzarella sticks cuz they're not people yeah that's a that's a weird
one for me
hi Jay since you showed up after I hide everybody I'm sure he would have
appreciated when Jay writes the book on efap he'll be on the cover shrugging
with his sleeves rolled up and the book will be called somehow I manage yeah
yeah hmm oh my god just end the efap already so I can watch Jay's new video
I mean fuck you Jay get kicked also hi rags hello and then literally a super
chode just says belch well it's her you say I did not hit her I did not it's
not true it's bullshit I did not hit her I did not oh hi rags oh hi you go
please get a necromancer these memes are killing me oh we could probably get
someone to roleplay as a necromancer cuz I don't think there's a real roleplay
like a role plays a necromancer bill slowly got trained for this can't spell
Jay gay without gay mmm true force the straight ease to contact contract big
gay and the gays to contract big straight perfectly balanced as all things
should yeah I'm on board with everyone gets to experiment straight ease it is
wait how much time until we how much time until we hit eight hours oh we
passed it oh wow 12 hours is the cap as we tested so we're fine oh when will
arch war hammer be a guest again it'll happen I'm on board with it and I'm
pretty sure he is as his right on the list yeah man he on the list play some
job of the huts on your show hey I haven't seen any of what that is I'm
guessing already channel what do you think about endgame and will you do a
review of it I mean we've we've got a whole episode all about endgame we
talked about a lot of it on this stream will I ever do a review of it is it's
possible I just don't know when or exactly how I'll do it hi rags hello
what's on pig punches video on you well we kind of covered yeah we covered it
very casually because it didn't seem to be worth anything more than casual
observance in part well a lot of non-committal stuff in there it's just
wasn't very much to it will Jay marathon Lord of the Rings over this weekend
Bilbo Baggins his birthday whenever he does
that do they mean Ian home or do they mean Martin Freeman like or do they mean
like in universe yeah like yeah the yeah is the in-universe equivalent equivalent
same
when will you do if app gaming again also hi regs hey I was thinking we might do
that remnant game to a co-op run or at least maybe if we get like an hour or two
into it in co-op and then just place live for a bit that could be maybe we're
not against it it's just a I've got so much stuff to do efab wise funnily
enough these this past week since I released my video I've just been editing
up all of the extra efap minis and movies which are very fun I'm looking
forward to and then yeah I'd be on board of doing any fab gaming as well I need
to do a wrinkle in time with with you and Jay longer that'll be fun you do the
new Godzilla the old Godzilla I guess Matthew Broderick Godzilla that's the
easy way to and more efaps in general and then I need to get start working on
I don't know if I got until dark fate comes out
on month and a half and I have less than a month until batwoman comes out who
knows what we might do with that because I feel like that might be perfect for
efap minis lots of stuff to think about doing I'm afraid but stuff will come
hey rags hey hello also mauler do you have a dream slash bucket list of guests
for efap would Mike or anyone from red letter media ever come on seriously
doubt anyone from red letter media would though me interact with man we would
love it I wouldn't yeah and I wouldn't even be like you have to respond to
videos I would just talk to him about shit yeah I'm sure we would come up with
all kinds of things to talk about and then bucket list of guests like who
would dream guests to have on efap rags that are in the realm of Lincoln in the
realm of reason uh Trump I would like I would like to have Tim Poole on he
really really hated can yeah I feel like that might be possible does he don't go
on podcasts like I know he went on Joe Rogan I don't know I don't think so I'm
not sure I wouldn't mind having
PewDiePie you know yeah see funny enough I see that as out of the realm of reason
even though I'm pretty sure he's been on the official podcast yes it's not
logically impossible but well we got our work
um I mean just you know the high-profile sorts like that I suppose I would mind
having Jesse Lee Peterson on oh yeah that's amazing I'd like I'd love to ask
hero Alex Jones would be I would love oh absolutely we can he's he's talked
about Star Wars before I feel like they might be like that could like me if I
could only find a way to like convince him it's worth his time somehow like he
would consider it for just an hour I just ask him I talked about the prequels
he liked the prequels yeah he would love to talk about him
he's got some takes man and not bad ones yeah you know lots lots different
people different places and I imagine that some of the best guests will come
out of people we didn't even expect but you didn't even know like you know
they're they're content creators get suggested to us that we're just like who
the fuck's it I believe robot head was someone that people asked to come on
ages before I even knew who he was they were critical drinker actually oh yeah
you never know who will work out to be some of the most entertaining ones and
we'll just try and get around to a lot of people as we go I mean we're only at
episode 52 and I don't know about you does anyone found out from the spiders
how long you have lasts how many episodes we get
if we have that on good authority or not and so there's a part that tells me I
might not
he he poo poo pee pee I had sexy time on your mother Jay that's apparently a quick
from Yoda Jay get fucked rip Jay the rise of Skywalker is expected to be a
to be big among those who liked the OT but wished it had been terrible fair
assessment also high regs hey hey there big among those who liked the OT but
wished it had been terrible
wish the OT would have been terrible
who thinks the OT should have been terrible that the rise of Skywalker is
expected to be big among those who liked the OT but wished it had been terrible
I don't exactly know what they're saying expected to be the we wish the episode
would have been terrible but it's gonna be good for those who like the OT is
that I'm not a hundred percent sure I think it's going to be terrible
regardless I guess is
Tim Curry is still alive yeah that was my mistake street fighter the movie and
unbridled praise when oh that could work for you fat movies actually pretty sure
that's really bad but I mean really good strokes rags hi doggy hello
if a card game incoming about 75% complete currently 344 cards also high
rag is really oh hey that's a lot of cards sounds really interesting is it
playable to have rules is it like top trumps is it gonna be our next
gaming is the card game is it like is it app or is it like a bunch of pictures
that we can move right I don't know hi rags hey hello sup Jay hello mauler hello
I have to watch this later but I hope you all had a good day and tell and to
tell you fat man said oh it's 100% tell you fat man said it's 100%
that's from Celtic boat
and to tell you fat man said oh it's 100% that remind me what's that a response
to what am I missing
ah what's 100% why is my brain melting debate
debate do not take debate why are we talking about TRO and Quentin 2 is
coming oh no into will it be better or worse than the original it's shaping up
like it's gonna be worse oh the chessboard the likelihood he said it's
100% I get it now oh I'm black and I used to watch Star Wars hi Jay what
I'm black and I used to watch store see I told you that no black people are
worse you know it they left you will have your own audio section soon Jay oh
that was from the efap not Emmy author and he also loved in a frogled fart a
frog old croak right but I need doggo content you massive I'm it's done I'm
waiting on YouTube man like I'm seriously waiting on you to cuz they
forward it cuz I originally was copyright and then I did reediting and
I fixed that then I put it back up and then it got demonetized so I appeal
demonetization and then the demonetization was confirmed so I
contacted creator support and got with them and they said okay we'll pass it on
to her internal team to take a look at which they have done before and I'm
still waiting for him to get back to me but it's done man like once they once
they give me the thumbs up it is boom all I have to do is hit public and it's
out there but it's on the way yeah it could literally be any day any moment
also the apparently the one about the ones who like the original but wish was
terrible as a reference to SNL joke and no I didn't yet I don't watch SNL
yeah and Celtic Phoenix did say it was a transport also yeah I think you you've
DMs me with something I meant to respond to I'll get around to that you just
reminded me by existing my brain works and the other half of this was recently
joined the master race and steam despite being a lifelong console peasant
thanks for convincing who more looking to getting clownfish TV on they're
pretty cool people also high rags hello hey no that sounds vaguely familiar
clownfish TV but again we're not against I'm coming on yes true how is wolf doing
well still in fine as far as I know a chat with him every once in a while and
he's getting on with with with life as it do as it be people don't think it'd
be like it is but it do Winton's true form is that blue canto bite thing but
the creepy blue can't bug or blue the flying bladder maybe it wasn't blue it
was like white it was like this creepy ghost white this pale weird milky color
one of Ms. Monopoly's features is in the Ms. Monopoly game women get a higher
payout at the start of the game and more money when passing go what the fuck
yeah it's kind of kind of sexist rags and over under would be a would be lighter
than a pump or semi-auto since it doesn't have a tube full of shells pump
or bolt just two tubes and a trigger I don't know it depends on how much
because the shells themselves don't wait that much and it depends on how
long the barrel is and how heavy the barrel is he wouldn't have the bolts
that's correct then we get to the sacrifice of you know capacity to wait
maybe I don't know I like the idea they might be different per that came from
the profile erotic fungus erotic fungus all right hey Rags do you own any
weapons chambered in point 308 if I have one I only have one it is a it's
got a weird name it's a it's a bolt-action 308 a Thompson Center
compass is what it is it's a bolt-action 308 the only one I've got and I only I
only have the one 308 though I am thinking of a semi-automatic 308 haven't
decided yet but it's kind of a maybe would like something you know hefty
Jay I really liked your Steven Universe video thoughts on gravity falls I will
hang on to that question or mr. J
I'm gonna go to bed and pour rhino milk into my asshole goodbye rags good night
it's like some people have milk baths I just hope I just open up my asshole and
pour the rhino milk in milk anima it looks kind of like a young Tolkien maybe
he doesn't have an interest in the law during his movies because he wrote the
source material in a past life this is the question when did when did Tolkien
die oh I'm I want to say talking died before Jay was born for sure almost he
died in 1973 yeah definitely Jay's probably young he's a youngin he's a
youngin hi gents and Jay hope you had a great stream we I think I think we did
we'll be at a nice nine hours so a short efap stream today
what do you think about snowpiercer I liked it but I remember having a couple
of issues with it writing wise I haven't seen it now and came out I haven't seen
it start to finish um but whenever someone mentions snowpiercer all I want
to say is watch the video about that and we wonka we wonka yeah okay you'll go
home and rethink your life not here but he would have listened because he is of
a weak mind we they are communists and I'm a Nazi auto rager don't understand
sometimes auto rager auto rager is my my character in Nazi vampire that's see I
just I need small time sometimes to get these get these going those I just feel
like a konky track of all the memes hi reg hello have you ever watched if the
emperor had a text-to-speech device the parody of why I have alphaba alphabusa
he's got a strange name but yeah I do know the channel some of his stuff is
gold very good stuff and it ends with by rags goodbye every hole is a goal
every holes ago yeah boy rags do you smoke or dab do I smoke or dab I do
neither of those things when people make fun of return of the king's length it is
done so in an endearing way or is the 4.5 hour length seen as an objective
issue I don't know that you can say some a film is too long without referencing
something specific it reminds me of criticism on my videos like you've got
to identify wasted time or I mean like like like canto bite is a waste of time
even though that film is much shorter than return of the king I don't I don't
feel myself that yeah if you say that you say something's too long it means
that there is an acceptable length which is yet to be determined generally and it
has exceeded that so like where's the standard coming from exactly it's gonna
be more complicated in reference to nothing right wrong link then there's a
right links you ask the average person they'll probably say a good length for
YouTube video essay is 20 minutes just like why is that because that's typically
how much time people have to sit down and watch a YouTube video sometimes like
maybe why is it that we'll say like an hour 45 to 2 hours is the is movie
length that's how a movie should be it's like why how long people tend to like to
sit down before they need to go to toilet okay I need better reasoning than
that cuz you guys should do an efap on youtuber Kimmy Granger her content would
blow your mind holes enough I rags hello more you massive Jay you're still here
oh now that the MCU is going to crap you should watch my hero academia instead
apparently they're selling out Marvel Comics now they're outselling Marvel
Comics also hi rags hello I ever hear about Marvel Comics is that they're
doing terribly yeah I just hear that they're shit hey just want to give y'all
money sorry I couldn't make it to the other streams been dealing with some
stuff and my mother's birthday is close and she'll be 40 this year if she was
here so I'm just spread some love y'all well thank you and yeah no worries about
not be able to catch some streams and yeah but we we sold your arm I suppose
and thank you more for converting me from loving TLJ to death despising it
passionately also let's stop bullying Jay also hi rags hello I converted you
from loving TLJ to death to despising it passionately we did it yeah I mean you
know if that's how it ended up you know feels feels be real sometimes sorry I
fucked up the spelling it's baroam wasn't recent
all right hello guys long time no donate huh rags huh did he say huh yeah almost
like it was directed at you is from mr. LMG do you recognize that I do I do I
absolutely do know that name he has given me a great deal of money he is a
very generous patron I mean stream more rags stream more gyms yeah yeah we
should after this video I might actually do that put that out cuz I already be
got on the next one so might as well yeah don't worry Jay I don't want you to
die only be maimed or seriously injured also hi rags hello nice my issues with
endgame overall stem with how it wastes Thanos and the disconnect between him
and the heroes it doesn't feel in thoughts agreed on that specific thing
I think most if not everybody is slowly agreeing that the wrong Thanos was in
that film yeah old Thanos was way better or Skywalker started a new series called
examining the force awakens he's only on he's on part two already your move
Welshman well I mean he's welcome to do that too I guess we kind of do the same
thing but mine I take tangents a lot to talk about writing and comparisons and
stuff the TFA itself it's not a surprise for a lot of people to know TFA is very
poorly written at this point yeah I want to start working again on part three I'll
hopefully be doing it relatively soon but again I don't want to promise
anything people go nuts about that we'll get there rags eats a lot of meat
in bed and at the table hmm the Virgin rags napkin user versus the Chad baby
wipe use I wait wait what say that again so you're the Virgin rags napkin user
versus the Chad baby wipe user little do you know that I use wet wipes after
every poo so that's a lot of people recommend that is it is the is the calm
that it's not good for toilets or drain pipes and stuff or is that not a thing
well you you buy you buy them that they're flushable oh yeah it says on the
yeah it says on the package and everything but you always finish up
finish the wiping with a good solid wet wiping I agree with that it feels great
keeps you it keeps you looking good back there man anime recommendations
Tokyo Ravens powerful characters with flaws who suffer from mistakes modern-day
setting with a Japanese magic system Tokyo Ravens I never heard of it yeah we
get never heard of most anime bedbugs require a full a status squad for
removal I mean you seriously have to be very thorough with bedbug removal you
got to make sure you get them all
have you guys played any rom hacks or fan-made games I recommend Super Mario
64 last impact on another Metroid 2 with a fantastic games are as good as the
main games of the franchise I played a couple fan games I played a fan game of
Mega Man at one point it was really good get the name of it though not so
much on rom hacks though not not really you played any rom hacks or fan-made
games I don't think so
I'm a problem I might have I just don't know I have tie when it's a bigger bear
than Jorah moment possible on confirm that ends on what is a moment which
means of Bear Island what if the chat pinky promised not to ask you every day
of your life about the secret video if you tell us do it for the rhino milk I
wouldn't believe that pinky probably would they would go back I still get
lost I was asked already when I released episode 5 like you know ways
episode 6 wins episode 6 I'm just like you know like a day I think even in a
day before asking that rags ready for a boogaloo if Beto wins oh yeah I am dude
Beto's a fool is no idea Beto I don't get it was referencing Beto
O'Rourke came out and said that he's two things that he definitely does want to
take away your guns and he also said that it should be he's he wants Master
card essentially to stop people being able to buy guns so he pretty foul shit
pretty foul stuff so yeah he wants gun confiscation and mask in these calling
on private corporations to stop the ability for people to exercise their
Second Amendment rights yeah he's I mean the good thing is that it's so crazy and
awful that it really will haunt his party for a long time whenever they say
oh we're not trying to take your guns is I'd be like yeah yeah you you're
clearly saying you're clearly saying that you want to you've got your
Democratic candidate up here on the stage in front of a cheering bunch of
loonies saying yeah hell yes we're gonna take your AR-15 from you like okay
because I live in the south here in Arkansas and yeah woe to the police
force who gets tasked with going door-to-door taking people's guns away
from them good luck with that I actually know how that let me know how
that turns out a free and that came up because we were looking at the
Democratic debates and we were just like can you imagine if the response to what
you just said was we'll be able to do it we'll be we'll we'll send off for it and
I was like you want to get an onion thanks to assault suburbs and take guns
from everybody's like gee you will never the military will never do that no
police force will do that the National Guard will not do that they won't it's
just not something that they will do like to me especially some crazy asshole
like Beto tells him to that's insane yeah like there's too many Americans no
divorce from reality think that that's absolutely against American values it's
not gonna work you if anything you'd start you really would generate a civil
war I think yeah I mean like this is something it just it wouldn't happen it
would be too insane and this is one of those things that people will kill over
is he actually he's not against like all guns right or is he against all guns
um the whether he's against all guns I don't know what insane limitation he
would want to put on them but Beto is the reason why we have the Second
Amendment in the first place I don't think he's gonna know from what I can
tell no oh fuck no he's not gonna win he's just become like a cautionary it's
between asterisk in his Biden and then Sanders and Warren the next isn't it
by yes supposedly I don't think Sanders is gonna win it's probably between
Kamala Harris and oh really Joe Biden hasn't she got like she keeps getting
you know like Tulsi Gabbard threw a whole bunch of fire at her in the second
debate wouldn't it yeah she she she got knocked down a bit but they're they're
keeping Yang and Tulsi out for their own nefarious reasons so I think are the
only two non-insane people running what I've seen on the top of reddit is yeah
Biden's polling the best but he's senile and they don't want him running
he is senile he's kind of like he's kind of crazy it'll be funny to see what
happens with this I'm just gonna watch the debates cuz I just I treat them as
characters terrible and I try and predict what might happen to the in the
later episodes of the season but you can never really know there's lots of twists
and turns it really is like watching a bunch of clowns they're insane anyway
give us the secret also when is the secret coming out and kick hey this is
his fault it's not a thing that's coming out I can even safely say that I have no
idea I'll again I like that I'm saying this from Rags is still like what the
fuck you talking about we'll talk about it but the thing is the weird secret
let's remind you know after the stream I'm probably gonna get something to eat
only take me like one minute at most okay okay but we're nearly actually
there by the way we nearly literally there Wow is this gonna be our longest
non marathon efap I don't thinks no but if we don't if we discount 50 yeah what
the actual longest episode is actually that's a good question I think it's
longer than this I think I sure well we had like the two-parter with like shad
and critical drinker and well I guess is your question like what is the single
longest collection that's not 50 yeah I think that'll be this one feel like we
may give me a moment check I've beaten it before got the seven hour four hour
five hour eight hours close but not the seven seven eight yeah I think you might
be right this might be the longest yeah because I've gone far enough now that we
didn't go over eight hours ever so the longest singular episode is still
episode 50 part 3 but this will be the longest one that wasn't a part of the
50th so yeah I think research anyway hey molar I asked last stream I never got an
answer what's your favorite comedy and don't just say room the room it has to
be intentionally funny there'd be a whole bunch it's tough to pick
um on the Python the holy grail is one of my favorites love hot fuzz as much as
it's not strictly a comedy loads last half in that if we're going strictly by
laugh factor Ragnarok was pretty high up Ragnarok was really funny a lot of my
loads in that yeah I was constantly laughing during Ragnarok but again this
is another question where I know that if I was like there's the whole bunch of
these movies where I'd be like oh of course that movie but I'm not thinking
about it right now it's just kind of hard but funniest movies yeah like a
there's probably a whole bunch of ones I'm missing I know it's I don't even know
why but death at a funeral I found hilarious I laughed a lot at that movie
I've not seen that I laughed a lot at no life of Brian and money being all the
money pipe sucks funny we laughed we laughed a lot at doom yeah ironically
they said it's funny though oh did they tune was really funny I'm not sure I
don't watch many comedies I'm not big into comedies like I said there'd be
more there'd be more options to choose from if I was to look at a list about
him yeah right by the one recently fascism is just proudly honest
socialism done done done drinker and molar in one stream legend well I might
be able to jump onto his side of the stream eventually as well his unhappy oh
my Dark Souls 2 is great say it molar I mean I'd happily say it I've just let
everyone know that I was currently lying
more if you were if you were to order you to kill all the efappers it wouldn't
matter how you felt about it rags you're right I have to kill oh they
referencing Code Geass I kind of show you that seems really accidentally told
you to kill everybody oh no a new Jurassic world short directed by Colin
Trevor oh aired today on FX it's called battle at Big Rock I can only imagine
how hilarious it is I don't know maybe it's good there's a chance
went to sleep with you starting and wake up to find you still live that's a sign
of a good efap oh it's been a it's been a chunky fap this one we've had we've
had all of the efap things a full episode being responded to a guest
coming on for debate a whole meme section and then discussion and stuff in
the super chat sections like this these are all the elements I think and the
video in question was not only one that caused debate over mainstream topics of
writing but also provided many a funny that's is not the best combination here's
a question for all of you if you could challenge such fight any antagonist from
any movie or TV show who would it be and how would you best them IRL Zemo I'd
shoot him first well that's the problem with this question you asking like who
we'd want to fight yeah I wouldn't want to I wouldn't want to fight any of them
that's the thing now if you get it would probably it would probably be better if
you had if you gave us like a selection to choose from because that's the thing
I don't want if I had to fight one that I would pick someone who's really really
weak like mortal didn't have any powers because I'm a I'm a good shot yeah but
yeah yeah if you're because I don't have any guns yeah if you're in the chat then
maybe come up with the list to to give us maybe or get shoot it to me on
discord and we'll get it onto it on the next efap because it's a fair question
just maybe pick like five you know for us to look at you usually keep one
quarter of this massively generous super chat for yourself give rags one
quarter give J 10% and then split the rest between every guest that's ever
been on efap applying a multiplier per appearance
that's I think it's 10 Australian dollars I don't know how I'm gonna be
able to do that that's just if you're asking for crazy maths here sir I guess
I'll have to get the calculator out watch episode 12 of back a monogatari
tari that featuring I know fuck you Theo right
option again they have facts but yeah I'm some likes is back a monogatari
probably obviously be Bobson actually oh be son of Bob just saw this can't wait
for the Targaryen men to stop burning shit and doing the exact same things
that Danny has done and get labeled a hero sigh are you talking about when
they release the prequel show whatever will be there to counter those terrible
arguments it'll be fun if ab gaming Nazi edition yeah all of them the Nazi
edition I took a ride home after seeing TLJ in theatre and guess which was the
first review I saw the Millennials in the return of the fucking Jedi that's
if I want to see you felt like 11 or 12 or whatever it's the dude cock one fucking
millennials some old shit or 17 my brain is sending random numbers to me
thank you for the new video Neil before Zod I'll consider it but thank you for
checking like the law link of the efap page oh I did is funny winners of MIC
split all super chats from first post episode 9 stream but do that yeah I mean
I would just I don't know what a reasonable celebration of whoever gets it
right would be and the thing about getting it right would more of be a luck
of the draw style thing because we've already all agreed that pretty much
everyone's gonna be inconsistent hi rags hello wow they're fucking with you
with this one this one says hi rags but then waits for his response and then
that four times they want you to say hi rags or hi back four times hello hello
hi hello one of them says hello regagas does that even apply to you
regagas regagas that is my spirit apparently Disney is making a series
centered on Mara Jade from legends forget the past kill it if you have to
Disney putting it into practice well yeah isn't Mara Jade the chick that
Skywalker married Luke Skywalker married I'm pretty sure she has a
connection to that degree but I thought they were getting rid of that so is it
like they get rid of it and then bring select pieces back when they want to I
don't know it's just it was so good I left nearly four hours ago and I'm
surprised to see this is still going long man bad oh absolutely is there
anything else to say about Bilbo Baggins birthday and Lord the Rings is
September 22nd all right good enough and you to first donation to efap by the
way rags did you hear about the MFF ports I say more power to him more power
to him make him angry make him upset make him cringe and winge make him cry
also rags image when will that be oh I don't know I've thought about it as I
don't know maybe maybe especially this monetization is constantly a fucking
issue we can do an efap thing right I mean me and you should probably have
molar and rags bitch and then efap Mitch as well just like why not I wouldn't
mind getting like a t-shirt for efap as well we'll have to figure something out
at some point I know we keep putting it off but I mean I don't know we'll get
this up there I swear why do you like red let media so much just curious I
don't get it the thing I like about regular media the most is their
chemistry they they work well together they really bounce off each other
excellently they have great flow their jokes are funny their commentary is
really amusing yeah like and I don't always agree with every take they have
on media in general in fact I can find myself disagreeing with half in the bag
every once in a while but I agree with them way more than I don't in terms of
just random takes on films then there's the fact that find them hilarious like
they make me laugh very easily I guess the point we I've watched them so much
now that even the smallest of things can make me laugh just like a glance at rich
Evans from Mike can make me laugh my ass off so you could you definitely say I've
attached for that reason but I also I love their content I think that the way
they break stuff down is always really fun of the plinket reviews even though
at this point I'm not even like I wouldn't I wouldn't care if I was
watching a plinket review or a half in the bag at this point cuz like I said I
liked their comboing up it's very unique yeah I'm doing it yeah more shaking with
rage at this Civil War review they still worry wasn't too harsh to Civil War they
were they were kind of to it than a lot of people were but I was shaking with
rage about everybody's review I could have started my YouTube channel back then
why does everybody hate this film oh yeah yeah well are you looking forward
to any new announced MCU content just Dr. Strangers sequel because they said it's
a horror film and they said the Scarlet Witches in it that sounds cool I like
the idea of those two together other than that like I said it'll be trailers
there's a good trailer for any of it I might be enticed if there's a really bad
trailer for any of it then I'll be put off for a celestial closer look meme
check your Twitter I've actually collected a couple we'll go through them
real quick toward the end um not a video though I'll save the video for next time
apparently there's a video actually no I'll save it all for next time it's just
gonna save the where we nine hours yeah we're getting there and I I am it has
been a long time since I've eaten okay so rags what is your favorite space
marine chapter I don't know enough about them to know I couldn't give you
an answer sorry right space she's sorry rags flushable wipes are only
technically flushable meaning they go down the toilet but they still clog
drains over time you know what that sounds like to me job creation get them
pipe cleaners out there rags well here's the thing I'm gonna if you if you are
gonna make potentially having an almost negligibly small impact on the sewer
system and me having an asshole clean enough to eat off of I'm gonna gonna
have to go with one of those over the other you know don't make me choose
cuz I already know which way I'm going I already know rags opinion of Lord
adornable and Magni magic who bored adornable and Magni magic I've never
heard of either of them I don't know any of that is either I feel like I probably
should but I'm ringing any bells Jesus Christ you're still going I must been
ten hours ago I asked the Tim Curry and Bill Skarska I'd take my schmackles
but nearly there when he got seven left the military wouldn't know it'll be
another hour the military would never foreign mix wreck is that referencing me
foreign mix you say foreign mercs oh they would use foreign mercenaries to do
it yeah together that would be awful same that that just means we'd kill them
more happily the military will turn on the government at that point surely what
mercenary group would be like yeah we'll go door-to-door confiscating the
firearms of people in America that sounds safe oh wait no I did read out
yours captain Alex Mason the one about rags is much that's how it ended about
FF I've read that
you thanks for the wonderful man fun it was a massive Sunday fun for those who
would free on Sunday long enough to sit and listen to nine hours of a podcast
obviously everyone here right now I'm having fun I mean even though it's only
only the rest only you and I now we're the only ones left absolutely watching
but all this just you and I here we lost we outlasted for here the critical
drinker Jay like what a bunch of lightweights and they make fun of me
because I can't drink that much alcohol and yet if they could see if they could
see the size of the dicks I could sit on hey wouldn't they wouldn't run their
mouths so hard question which Marvel villain would you fight each phase we
each question I don't want to fight any of them unless I have abilities in the
well again well I guess we've got we've got some we've narrowed it down a bit
like if we have to choose one from each phase all right so phase one from each
phase pretty much yeah would it be like is x-men part of the Marvel no no so
phase one it would be Iron Man 2 is in phase one so it would be just didn't
okay hammer is it the hammer guy he's just a guy he makes technology too but
he's still just a guy like I'm not gonna fight abomination for example because
we get thrashed red skull is still kind of superhuman and you got iron manga
which is not gonna be easy yeah okay I go with go with hammer phase two you've
got the elf guy so no Captain America Winter Soldier I guess you got Robert
Redfoot is the villain so he's just a guy he'd have lots of like security else
is the Iron Man 3 oh god yeah no well let's see that's my let's see phase two
phase two is from Iron Man 3 onwards I guess on to Ant-Man so Iron Man 3 to
Ant-Man so that is selecting the guy people you know ones that can be shot to
death with a single pistol sort of thing instead of like the crazy magic or juice
stuff stuff so it would be so we're in face this is we're in phase two right
now yeah I went with hammer and now I'm going with probably Robert Redford that's
the Winter Soldier bad guy okay we have Iron Man 3 Thor the Dark World Captain
America Winter Soldier Guardians of the Galaxy Avengers Age of Ultron Ant-Man
demo you just shoot him well this says it ends with Ant-Man
that's face two right yes this is face yeah yeah we already went with Robert
Redford he's old he's an old man and we can shoot him and then like I said
Phase 3 is Civil War 2 well Spider-Man Far From Home so even though he's he's
pretty adept at shooting himself and he's espionage man I don't know what the
rules of this are all right so wait can't we have because Thor Ragnarok's in
there why can't we have our villain be Jeff Goldblum I don't know if we if
it's me or a villain and he is actually evil I'd like for him to call a truce
he'd say we draw right at the end in the post credits scene all right all
right spider-man I mean vulture wouldn't be terrible you could still shoot him
but why go for any of that over Zemo I don't know Zemo is like a guy so I'd
probably take Zemo I was I was right the first time I'm just kind of exploring my
options here yeah the problem with this question is what are our abilities we
just us us isn't very good yeah are we just us is it just me and my fists or is
it me and the guns I have in my house I don't or is it what does it have to be
like a like fist fights cuz I'm not I'm not a very imposing guy you're a
you have to kill vultures family what why fuck I mean it'd be easy but shit
goddamn this is for this is for leaving spider-man play the whoopsie cold code
gsc.efab I can't do that I can't humiliate an anime on efap will be
slaughtered by our fan base if a guy at EA is head of EA Studios in Europe now
all right don't know what that'll mean for EA Studios but hopefully it's a good
we're not gonna be by the way Milo's character is cute fits in perfectly
I've seen it yeah it yeah it's a fitting one um it broke new ground you see the
memes that come out of red let me your event they really are amazing I love
scientist man scientist man did you see it chapter 2 if so what think this
stream begins with 10 minutes of me and critical drinker talking all about it
chapter 2 so as soon as this process it'll be right there and 10 minutes of
me listening whom cock is streaming tune in live on efap wait what he tuned in
live to do cock on efap but he's not on efap that doesn't make me it's fair
enough that's fair enough could you guys end doing impressions of each other
I'd have to I'd have to get enthusiastically American have to get
cynically British cynically British and I'm rags a second do right it sounds
just like me I almost got a little confused I'm sure you did
you got to say what the fuck in a dry British angry cynical voice what the
fuck oh we got Eric is coming in with a okay so your villains to choose from
while you're in their respective universe is Patrick Bateman from
American Psycho and Tom Shigeru fee from no country for old men or Jack Torrance
from the Shining I'd go with that not sugar no I'd go with Jack Torrance
because it's between him and Patrick Bateman and Patrick Bateman is younger
and faster yeah I think I'm gonna go with that too and Jack is insane like
into the point where he would probably fall over a bunch of things while Patrick
Bateman is like a horrific sociopathic serial killer like he's I'd say he's
probably smarter while Jack would kill himself trying to kill you like he would
walk into a fucking shredder if it meant trying to get to you yeah he crick cray
all right I like that question weirdly yeah that was good yeah I like that
not Shigeru though because he's gonna fuck us both up no because he's in he is a fucking monster
and he knows what he's doing he's insane he's resilient he's intelligent he bides his time
he's witty he's a freaking marksman can terrify people with a coin
it's true yeah that was such a good movie oh my god that was such a good movie um but that's
it we made it um thanks everyone so much the the memes will not be forgotten they will be transferred
over to the next meme time we do meme teams of streams um thank you very much for the donations
I hope you enjoyed this extra short episode of efap we uh we had lots of fun times it'll be back
possibly sunday you never know exactly when that'll happen um Sunday I hope you have a good a good
night morning afternoon wherever you may who would be um anything you want to say rags before we
before we flimple our dingus you know my figure if we're about to flimple our dingus we should
probably do so and we should have a moment of reflection before I I don't know what to say at
this point we've been going for what nine hours nine hours 19 minutes yeah I'm not gonna say my
tongue is tired eventually 24 hour faps will be like normal it's like what are you guys gonna do
a special 100 hour well well it was fun we'll catch you guys again good night
