But imagine like a Russian efap
It'll be like devoid of
Your character will be like what do we watch today?
You'll have drinky drunkie, but a kiss pass vodka
Drinky drunk either on gear on key. That's racist. You don't have to be wrong
All the Russians are drunk. We drink vodka for breakfast lunch in the end
You just say Allahu Akbar
Cannot say this. Oh, hello audience. We've been gone for a long time guys. We need to apologize
Who you lol. We are sorry audience. We just don't care about you
Massily you must cut the field wire
It's all right. Oh, I haven't actually got the correct thumbnail done for this. Whoops
Got cynical CJ in the thumbnail right now. Oh
We have talking green person here and you won't even represent him
That is my tonal bad. I'm gonna fix it right now as
We're speaking while the way of people to pop in I'm not delay
Token pipeman token pipeman hook and pipe it say that
Isn't token the guy who wrote they he wrote the Lord of the Rings movies. Yes
token token
George our token
George our token. Yeah his his son Dimitri token. No, he he
Is that game?
Or in the morning token, it was Lord of Thrones
Game of game of the Rings is what it was. He broke game of the Rings
Yeah, there's no like there's nine rings and you've got to beat the boss to get a ring or whatever
And once you get nine you win
Well, the key is to get to nine rings and put them on your hands at the same time
So that only one of your fingers doesn't have a ring on it and it becomes gotta be the left fingers
And it becomes like the powerful finger right because it's powered by the rest of the fingers
It can control one of your fingers controls the fingers that are ringed the ringed fingers
I see that you hold up the pinky and then everyone just bends to your will
In my opinion like that's the guy who started Laura he invented law I can't believe people pay us for this
I
Can't believe that people like Jack are like you guys want to give me superchats and people are paying us for saying shit
That doesn't make any sense. I mean game
game of the
Galaxy brain listen that there's anything that I've learned from galaxy brains. It's that moderation
We're gonna get to that we've got so much so much shit to get to you
I'm not even kidding like we've got more beeps to look at today than ever and we've got more
announcement related intro things than ever and we've got a really long video to cover so
Just FYI if anyone wants to drop out at any point you are more than welcome to you don't stay for the whole thing
It's just that there's lots planned because we haven't been here for a while. That's
Bad on that case. I'm out if I'm allowed to leave. We're just gonna shame you if you do
You can go anywhere you want, but you can't stay
I mean, I don't know why you stay here, but it's okay
So I figured to start since we have had from you on so many times
I still haven't asked him this you know about our running thing of
Who will be the most inconsistent character of episode 9?
No, I don't I met it's maybe I missed this
It was started ages ago
And the idea is that you we're all having a bet on who we think will be the most damaged or inconsistent character of
episode 9 now
The obvious picks are Kylo and Lando and so we've disqualified them
You have to pick something more interesting than that and so I was about to say I was about to say Kylo
The the current runnings are
Me cynic snacks and cinema sin sins have all voted for Finn
Alex
boxes or
blessed pikeman
And CJ voted for Poe
Rags has voted for Hux Wolf has voted for Ray and then weekend warrior and metal vote for Luke. So it's
What do you think?
man like that
Man, it's so difficult because they're all such good choices
or
I'm just trying to think like cuz worse doesn't necessarily mean most inconsistent cuz if it was the worst it'd probably be right
but the most inconsistent
What what is um, I
Don't know like what what is Finn like what's what's his what's going on with him, you know
Thing it's really you could make an argument for all of them in my opinion, but I think you should I guess I guess like
Hux would depend on whether or not
Abrams decides to just completely disregard everything that was in the last Jedi and then just goes back
Do that. Yeah, that's Ryan's gig. I
Don't like I don't know what they're meant to do, you know at this point like um, hmm. All right
I'm gonna start over that time jump. I'm a lock in Marvel. They're gonna be in the captain Marvel
Oh, yeah, and I actually like Finn like I like him more than most of them. So, uh, that's that's probably
Yeah, I reckon Finn. I'll go with Finn. There we go. Uh
And I was gonna say if you want to get that that thing about DMC
With while while people are still coming in. Ah, right. So, um
So I'm sure everybody who's been playing devil may cry 5 and if not, you should because it's legendary. I've heard it's really good
I think I'm gonna jump on then I'd like to have a good action game to play some yeah
I think that's probably the main thing about it, right?
It's like a good action game which there hasn't been for a while like it's a game that embraces its gaminess
You know, it doesn't like it doesn't like tone it back so that it's more
realistic or anything like that and it's just so good in so many ways and um
Then somebody told me on Twitter the downward thrust said it was a button masher
All right, so
Yeah
Apparently he deleted the video though
We're gonna say there was a video for that as well as a Twitter post and he got a lot of flack for it
Quickly his audience turned on him quickly and before it even got to the algorithm if you know, I
Read a comment on there that said
Have some respect for your audience before you fucking called DMC a button masher and I was like, oh
For me let let this game be the thing that brings you back because the other day make a video on time with threats video
Yeah. Yeah. I just want to tell you the other day. I got really
Really high and I was on YouTube because I had nothing better to do with my life
And then I started binge watching your videos and then I spent the whole day and I watched every video you've ever made
Well, I was like this fucking green dude needs to make more shit. Yeah
Like three videos and like the past year. Yeah. No, it's my last video
It was a D3
Well, yeah, did you give me mention cuz again, I don't know anything about DMC, but he plays the game on auto
The why is important but it's it's funny to consider when he called it a button masher if I understand it correctly
man, like I I
Can't fathom like this game has the whole DMC combat is about directional attacks
So you just cannot button mash. Otherwise, you can't win. Oh, well unless you're playing on easy, maybe what is what is auto mode?
Well, I I don't know cuz I haven't played it on auto mode, you know
Cuz I played it properly
I know metal commanders in chat and he knows what it is explain it in a comment and at me with with an answer there
You
Yeah, it's basically an auto assist mode
Automates and randomizes the combat system by performing special attacks and combos for you by just repeatedly pressing a single attack button. Oh
Combat and do combos yourself. You just have the game
It's game journalist mode
Over and over and it'll play for you
In IGN, yeah, just does everything for you I guess is the quick answer
For you fun in that though. Like what is the fun in that? Yeah, fuck that shit
Make more videos. Yeah, so like if that one thruster leaders video because it was terrible
And it's just another example of like oh dad with it. Never stop never stop making videos keep going
Like what was he thinking? I mean he's wanting to bank on the fuse
He didn't understand what DMC even was he's just like, yeah
I mean he he's been proven to have made videos lying about warframe when people looked and found out he only had like two hours
logged into the game
This is why I said previously like just make videos on things you actually have a passion for if it's negative or positive
Make it with a passion. Otherwise, you'll just be like fucking I don't know. It's a game with graphics. It has
Mechanics. Well, I mean we know why he made the video because it's a big game that people are excited for
And I'm he had to know that he was gonna piss people off
I made my fallout video months after it came out and it it was really popular
Cuz like people give a shit about me
So if you make if you just make a good content, then you don't have to rush something out
My thing is well like with a game like devil may cry you really can't
There's so much meat to it that yeah that I don't see how you you could like
I mean, I doubt that he even talked about styles or anything like that
I'm sure that he didn't or um, or the differences between styles like anime
Confusing the green
I guess I mean the thing is like even though cuz I'm nearly finished like I'm very nearly finished
Um, but I can't say where I am because it would be a spoiler. Uh, oh by the way, thanks
Thank thanks YouTube by the way for spoiling like the ending just by recommending videos to me that are like oh
the ending
Oh, yeah
While playing Metro Exodus because I was like don't you dare spoil the good ending. Yeah, there's a there's like channels
Um
And they'll put like spoilers in the title and the thumbnails. Yeah
Yeah, just to get views because it's just a cut scenes like
I'm like man. Fuck you guys
Fuck these guys like oh god do that if you if you do that
Kill yourself. I I got a funny story about that
It's oh, it's kind of a spoiler, but it was something that happened three years ago. Anyway, so who even cares?
Um
Spoiler, john snow dies in game of thrones, but then he comes back three episodes later
But I didn't know that when I first started looking up like first started watching game of thrones, right?
And so I was looking up the scene from hard home where he fights a white walker
Because I thought that scene was fucking cool
I go on youtube and I type in john snow and the very thirst thing that comes up is john snow death
And the one right under that is john snow resurrection and I was like god damn it
Yeah, I but the thing is man, like there were spoilers for the game before it was out
So like it, you know, it came out on friday. So on thursday, I have this thing show up that shows
Certain characters in the thumbnail and i'm just like dude
What?
Don't have like mission one all cutscenes mission two all cutscenes, you know things like that
Don't have the name of the quest or something like that
No, no, at least if you're going to say if you're going to show the ending just say like metro exodus ending
I've seen a video that says metro exodus and it tells you what happens in the ending
And I i'm so glad that I avoided youtube because I would have been crushed if I didn't experience the ending myself
Desperation these days is insane. Like I know this because uh,
Cinema citizens or jay has been making videos on like different channels and one of them
He won't he actually said he'd recommend us covering them at some point. They're called like next up
I think or something like that
And some of the videos they make are so fucking hilarious
They'll be like what you didn't see in the avenges end game trailer
It'll like have a screenshot of like hulk holding the time stone or something
What and then it'll have like moments just screenshot from the movie and they're like a really poorly photoshopped
Fucking character like Thanos in the background. They'll be like something we missed first time around
Jesus christ, you're so desperate
Um, yeah, they'll be making videos with spoilers that aren't real just to try and get clicks
But when they get the actual spoilers you can guarantee they'll jump on that like crazy
Oh, dude, they got the thumbnails with like the red circles in it. Yeah, I'm pretty sure
Ah
Man, I haven't seen those videos in like five years. I don't see one
What the value what's the value in a video like that, you know, it's not going to be anything
hundreds of thousands of
I think it's just like that that oh skill
Oh, no, sorry not skill up it is next up next up. Yeah, I don't feel like that would be a skill up video
Yeah, that's what I have to say
I forgot who they fucking are. I don't know skill up as well
All I know is that he said something about how he doesn't like either efable me
That's like just stupid because I really like skill ups content
I thought he was one of the only ones that made like a really good video on metro exodus
There are many times when you find out that like a guy who you like who makes, you know, youtube critiques just hates mauler
And it's like what does it take fringy because you were there for one of them
What does it take to get them to shut the fuck up? It's just like just have a chat with me for a sec
The thing is is that I think with most people you find that when you actually talk to them
Like they're nowhere near as bad as you think they are
Well, I mean fucking no, I hate everything began his conversation with me and wolf like you guys think that everyone else's opinions are invalid
We were like no
He was actually kind of a little bit aggressive toward us at the beginning
Yeah, because he he'd been fucking coaxed into it
He'd been told really bad things about us that he was like, oh none of it's true
Oh, I hate everything back. Like this is like a year ago now
Oh
I think it's been treated like confrontation as well
You know what I mean?
Like the person who we won't name
Like when when he thought he was talking to you and I was also just in the call because we were already talking
Is like oh what's what's what's going on? You know, what's going on? What's going on? It's like it's okay
It's a friend of mine. He's not gonna
Bitch you
Something I wanted to mention by the way, I've started playing Resident Evil 2
What was your um the criticism you had rags about chained doors? I forget
No, I couldn't find the goddamn chain doors
Because like I don't know if this matches up
But um, they only show up on the mini map if you've actually tried to open them
So if you walk up to a door that has a chain on it, you're like oh fuck
So if i'm like, oh, that's a chain door. I can't open it
Yeah, I was gonna say this is a double-edged sword
It's like if you said that they don't show up on the mini map you are incorrect
However, it's stupid that I have to try and open a chain door in order for it to register on the mini map as a chain door
It should be as soon as it comes into your field of view
Yeah, like someone like a meter make it that limited but still that's enough surely someone in the chat said chain dorsen
Um, so the thing is I haven't played Resident Evil 2 since the one time I sat down and started it
I've only played it once
Yeah, it's all good. I haven't actually gone back to it yet
It's really good. I think i'm just passed halfway and i'm hoping to get another like one session to finish it off
Um, well, what do you mean halfway? Have you played both campaigns? Oh, right. Okay. I'm halfway through leon's campaign then
Yeah, i'll i'll probably try and play cliz see what's see what's see what's on the
Thing with that as well. But yeah, i'm having fun. I um, i haven't i'm enjoying it
A lot more than um, the first ones remake and I don't have any problem with the first ones remake
I just didn't connect with it that much
You know, um, this is capcom's like
You know capcom's doing all right at the moment, you notice that like they're just doing well recently. Yeah, I have uh
People seem to be very happy with them. So it's like yeah, good making good games
I just want them to keep doing what they're doing. I want my Resident Evil 4 remake gimme
Uh, I think uh, you're probably getting three or code veronica before that. I know but please
Next year year after I don't get give me
Um, yeah, and I should probably say uh fringy is our guest. Uh, you run a channel that releases videos weekly, right?
regularly, and oh, yeah
You can just you tune in and you just get something new every day
You know what I mean?
Just just go to his channel much content subscribe and leave comments like you piece of shit
Why aren't you making videos anymore and eventually we'll get yeah chat type f to get fringy to finally make a video
We're gonna for the opposite of sjw is we bully people into making content
Bring you make more videos you make very good videos when you actually make them
Oh, man, you know like make a response to tonal. See look at the chat. They all want you
man
That's very touching guys
Uh, um
Already 20 minutes in and no idea done with intro stuff. So the next subject which is less fun
is uh
A lot of people already know some stuff about this
But we have to say it like publicly i've left a comment on um a video that goes over it. But
mr. Jared genesis
Uh, he said a whole bunch of things and it's been brought to our attention that
A lot of things that span over a long amount of time
Uh that are really really bad including but not limited to basically threatening to kill people
aggressively
with specific information about them and uh
For anybody who's completely unaware
This will be a surprise I imagine because it's such a fun
Aspect to a efap, but we've got to get this done and dusted. So
The context is that jared started running live streams once he's
Figured it out. I guess I don't know and for about I think it's like a six or seven hour stream
He's uh, he keeps responding like I saw this before but I just didn't think anything of it
he's back and forth thing with people in his
chat and um
They're not exactly kind like there's
There's loads of harsh insults and some of them like go after you know, like their family insults or uh
Things relate into Jared's personality his room his character his family blah blah blah
And so it obviously pissed him off
quite significantly
um, but that doesn't mean that we can't
Uh, like it doesn't mean that he's justified in what he said, which is essentially that he's gonna
Find and kill people
And that would be bad enough
But then he's like again, this is this is a very rudimentary understanding for me because I just I don't really know what's going on there
but it seems to be that he threatened his family as well, which uh
Doesn't seem good and obviously the idea is that
The more we have fun with Jared memes the more audience he may or may not get and the more he's encouraged to
Carry on and if that's what he's doing
That's not good. Um, so yeah, he got like super stressed to the point of like
Raging out like his people have commented like his eyes almost seem to be coming out of his skull like he's so fucking angry
And it's just kind of like okay
We're gonna be backing the hell out of this as well as
announcing that we condemn it like crazy, um
Obviously like what we'd hope is that he releases a video like I don't know apologizing
and maybe making a roadmap for how he's gonna
Try and improve but
With this and all the stuff has happened in the past
But then we remembered he's Jared
This is the thing like it's just it's too um
Just rocky road all of it is we have no idea what the hell's going on really and
You know whether or not you're angry doesn't change some of the things you can have beyond permanently on the internet
You have to not threaten to kill people
In a very serious manner
Once you start losing your mind and swearing so loudly that your mic is automatically bleeping you out. Yeah
I mean
In like actually naming names and saying that you're going to slit people's throats
We can't stand by that and then there's other stuff that came up from like years ago that people have pointed out to us
Because we only really ever looked at videos of his that had funny titles that we thought might make for something to laugh
Like 10 of his videos and most of them were the new stuff because we only covered was it three on efap in total
Yeah, I believe there's one in episode one one in episode three and then the one where he
Celebrating something there's probably more than that in fairness
But what i'm saying is that we had a very narrow
Understanding of his channel. Um
either way the result of all this is that um
We want there to be no more references to jared pretty much at all
um
Especially in meme videos
Which understandably I know that a lot of people right now are gonna be like hey
Uh, that's not fair. I just made a like really complicated video with jared references in it
So this is going to be the last stream that we're gonna i'm gonna try and show
The ones I have left in in my backlog
That are um
Like of a decent quality and still have jared in them and we're just going to try and say that this is the last for that
but
If you can and if someone out there is currently in the middle of uh, creating a meme video that's got jared in it
Like if you can
Just flip that video's throat
Just fucking change it just throw anyone else in there. Uh, blessed pipe. That would probably be the way to go. Um,
I don't know. Obviously, we're just gonna have to move on we're gonna wind down
Basically all references. Uh, my discord
No longer has the emotes related to him. We've discouraged discussion on the whole thing. Just we're just gonna let it go
It's uh, it's the it's season one and two. I suppose season three is gonna be wiped
And uh, yeah, we you know, we've said it before but we'll just do it again. We condemn
Targeted harassment and i'm sorry. This has happened
There's nothing
Nothing else we can do
uh
It's undeniably serious and wrong. So
That's that's about it. I suppose like again. We um, we can't really support it anymore is the point
um
And you know this happened weirdly right because jared wasn't really referenced up until
I believe it was one of the meme videos the broad it was the one where he's thor, right?
It like blew our minds in terms of how funny it is because it's such a clever
uh
Cameo and then it just elevated into meme hood. We wouldn't even cover in his videos
so like the the idea is that um, I think the memes did it and I wanted to read out that uh
The there's a selection of people who are making memes for efap that are actually talking to each other. I believe
And uh e-man. Yeah, we will potato e-man gaming
Yeah, I think freebie sheath might be in there. E-man gameplay put a comment on the video saying uh
I'm a guy who makes a lot of memes surrounding efap our group have talked it over and we've come to an agreement
We've decided to no longer make memes or fan content involving jared. We'll still make the vids about efap
We just don't want jared in them anymore
We may use some quote of his from time to time, but generally we don't want to be causing any trouble
I hope you understand where me and my peers are coming from and I hope you don't think we're contributing to the issue and
Yeah, that's pretty much where we're at as well
Um
And that's yeah, it sucks, but hopefully everyone understands and uh
We can move on because I mean we've got plenty of funny shit to come today as well as analytical stuff and
This isn't something we can just avoid we would have talked about it way earlier
It's just that uh, we've all been in different positions of busy
Um, and this is the first day that's available for all three of us plus a guest. So
um
Talked about it now and that's about it. Anyone else want to say anything or
Um
Hope jared gets some help
Yeah, that'd be nice like mental help because he's obvious. I think I was kind of clear
That he had something wrong with him like autism or something because he does don't act like that
But he needs like some psychological help
Yeah, I hope he gets it honestly like whatever's going on
um
So I can move on uh
The last defab if you guys even remember was the one about mark brown rags you very much enjoy his work, don't you?
He is one of my favoriteist youtubers
Um, we got some criticisms and this this does happen because I think mark brown does make
Good videos. He's probably the best content creator. We've covered at their best if you know what I mean
um
But so we've got a bit of backlash and we can clarify a couple of things. I think that's worth it. Uh,
so someone said
They've basically disregarded exploration as a gameplay mechanic rags even used taking notes as an example of something bad
I don't know if you wanted to uh clarify on that or not, but like i've got
Taking notes as something bad like the idea that you have to take a note
In a game to be able to remember a thing or be a puzzle or whatever you use that as an example of being something bad
Might have to see the context of where I said it
I was I was about to say that would be that would depend because a lot of nes games
required it just because they didn't have the
capacity to
Know it just wasn't possible
I like I don't feel like I should
It depends on it depends on what kind of game it is if it's an exploration game. That's about puzzle solving
And clues and things like that. That would be one thing where I would expect it
but if i'm playing like an action adventure game or a first person shooter game
and
randomly at intervals
Or like in a witcher
Like if I want to I want the game to tell me where I need to go. I don't need like a little
mini out of game
thing where I have to try and
Translate what the person in the game is trying to tell my character
It depends on the game that we're playing and it also depends on how well it's implemented. Yeah
I think a bit of confusion came in where we people took when we said as long as there's an option
It's fine
And they took that and assumed we were saying as long as you can turn on the dotted line the game is fine
implying that we don't care if you can find your way in world or
not as in like the dotted line as long as it's there you'll always be fine and they were like that's crap because
You're practically giving developers an excuse to just use the dotted line instead of making a world that has like
memorable
positions or like
Place names or things you can see that you can remember so the world becomes more
Vibrant and immersive and I know that I meant this and i'm assuming you guys did but when we said a choice
What what i'm referring to is both of those things are running as in the world gives you more than enough
Uh ways to discover where to go
Uh without a dotted line and then it also gives you a dotted line if players really just
Like I said, if you're in a in your state of play where you're not interested in um
Keeping track of the things that you see in reading all the place names
You just want to get to the next battle or get to the next, you know event of some kind
But they were the choices. I was I was more referring to um
and Witcher 3
From what I understand does have enough without the dotted line, but a lot of people were saying it doesn't
Unfortunately for me, I can't comment because I haven't played it through but I just from what I saw in mark brown's video
It looked like it had ways of telling you where things are without a dotted line
Yeah, I mean people pointed out as well. Um
That if you like look at the mission like some of the journals and logs you pick up in the witcher 3 it'll tell you
Uh, and yeah, so there's maybe a debate there
But that's my position is that I want there to be both I want there to be
A way to get around with just playing attention to the wheels and then also have a dotted line for those who really just uh
Maybe they have bad memory. You know, there's so many reasons why you might want a dotted line
And the people were saying that the introduction of a dotted line has made developers get lazy about wheel building
And i'm like, I don't necessarily disagree
I just want the option
I would disagree. I don't know how that says anything about world building that doesn't make any sense
Yeah, I I I can see the argument, but I don't I don't think you can say that for all games or just as a rule
You know what? I mean, i'm sure they meant it as a generalization like that
It's given encouragement to do it and I don't even think as a generalization. It's right
I think um, the points that i've seen on that are
If you give people a marker, it means you don't have to think about pop. I'm just representing the arguments i've seen
Not that I necessarily agree with it
but that
You don't necessarily need to populate the world with landmarks that help people navigate it and you know
have cues for finding things and you don't necessarily have to
Populate it with things as well
Just because they've got a dot that they're going to go towards and it means that you don't have to try like
Finding the puzzle shouldn't be the puzzle
Well, I I think there's there's room to make out something good. I think I don't know I think breath of the wild
There's a good example. They're like you gotta go here
But we're not going to tell you how to get here. You have to figure that out on your own
yeah Metro Exodus does it really really well where you have a map and you have like a vague circle of where you're supposed to go and
You don't have like a mini map on your screen as you're running
You just got to pull up your map every now and again and make sure you're going in the right direction
Or like he does it really well
It's it's so contextual based off what you're trying to do and find
I if if you're trying to find something in the middle of the woods
Then directions are just going to be a pain in the ass
But if you're trying to go to a specific like like a building like go to this town and up in the attic of the church
The contact is waiting for you and they're like you don't need a marker for that because they're like, all right
This town. I know what a church looks like I go up to the attic of the church
Bam, you don't need a marker for something like that
I mean it really does depend as well on what the game's objective is. I mean if it's an open world game
It doesn't necessarily mean that they want you to figure out how to get somewhere. Whereas if it was metroid
You know, they could tell you where to go
Yeah, and then it's like, okay now I have to figure out how to get there
Like I know where it is
But I need to the challenge part of the game is figuring out how to get there whereas like in grand theft auto
It's not about how you get to the place. You just need to get there
And so direction is helpful sometimes, you know
Um, but hopefully that
Please a position it's an ongoing discussion. I think then maybe the next time we cover it we can develop it
But I did find this very interesting
I don't want to piss anyone off in saying this but the people defending mark brown
Nobody brought up the mario's jump video. Everyone was gunning for the dotted line one and I just find that interesting
Yeah
The most you'll find is people say he's describing simple concepts
But I think that went out the window the second he said this is something professional gamers
Will be interested in it's complicated
like oof
um
Yeah, I don't know maybe it could have been translated better and uh
We will always be trying to work on that because like I said
It was really interesting if you look through the comments people were simultaneously saying this is one of the best efaps and one of the worst
Because it was really entertaining. But a lot of people felt that we were
A bit too mean to mark brown or misrepresent. They're sorry if the people you like aren't entertaining
Or intelligent. I'm sorry. It's but that's
Like I wasn't there obviously but in terms of like with mark brown it just feels like he doesn't say much
He just says things that are apparent
If you like to watch people who talk to you like you're a fucking five-year-old, then that's on you. That's fine
If you want you can you can watch whoever you want support whoever you want. That's on you. I'm not going to judge you for it
I would I gotta like if
This could be in the comments or in in the chat right now
But would you guys be interested in us covering a video that we consider to be good for mark brown just so that
You can try and see how we would pace it or pass it
Sorry, like in terms of its approach because I remember doing one on
Resident Evil 4 and his point is that the game has an underlying rubber banding element to it in difficulty that most people don't
notice notice will talk about and
uh
I remember thinking it was a good video
So I wouldn't mind us covering that and just talking about so no me and rags both love Resident Evil 4 and i'm assuming
Fringy and wolf might do as well. I don't know
Yeah difficulty, uh, yeah the difficulty adjusting in the background which is cool
And so i'd be like if if people are so you got a couple of yes, absolutely. Yes steel man mark brown. Hello
Yes, we'll consider it that uh
We'll do a mark brown isn't so bad after all video maybe um
And yeah, and there was the last criticism
I saw was the efaps two circle jerking. We don't have anybody who disagrees and I don't get it since that sick that
episode came after the one with major lee
which
he doesn't
He doesn't agree with us. Uh on this also implying that the three of us agree on every single thing
When there are active memes about how
Let's disagree. Yeah
Um the idea of it being two circle jerky like it's possible
But we're friends we get along with each other really well
That's kind of how the show works. So again, like all I can really say is like yeah, there'll be a bit of that
Absolutely, feel free to come on the stream and disagree with us about something. Um
Yeah, that's
Mostly disagree on everything though. It's like we really don't but if that's how it comes across sure
Um, no way friends agree on things. Holy shit. I never would have thought what if there's ever been like a podcast
Fucking retarded ask non criticism you guys agree on things sometimes and you disagree on things other times
No fucking shit. Oh, yeah, we'll do the arrival stream. I genuinely think you're retarded if you make that criticism
I don't care. You're a dumbass
I love the difference in responses
That's going to be relevant with one of the big videos we've got but uh
Yeah, the the we've got the arrival one coming up eventually. Maybe that could be next
I don't know where j and wolf can have the debate on arrival. Oh, yeah
Yeah, we can watch that thing is the guy we're covering today said he wants to come on efab after we've covered his video
so
That might happen after this as well. I'm sure we will see how it goes
Um, but to move god j hold on before we get in. Oh, you want you want to do the other thing?
I've got it lined up. Don't worry. We'll get to it
Oh, oh wait. I've got a whole thing about movies. So it's gonna
Oh, okay
Jay
Jay you stay or you stick around you stick around that chat
So i'll give you guys that link and uh rags rags. Do you want to read this out?
Oh
So this is oh this is this is big brain h bomber guy here
Um
So this
Okay
He said he typed this out letter by letter and then submitted it to the internet in public
He made this decision
This is a decision he made
All right, he said
Moderation is a delusion people invent to describe themselves
There is no moderation between right and left just like there is no moderation between correct and incorrect
That's just wrong, but pretentious and easily upset about it
I like the uh the conflation of left and right with correct and incorrect. I wonder which he thinks is correct and which is incorrect
And four thousand idiots on the internet thought that this was a good tweet. Well, apparently he didn't
I guess he deleted it recently. Yeah, he deleted the tweet because it's it's self-evidently fucking retarded. He's taking a few
Bits of advice from quinton there
Yeah, um don't say stupid shit on the internet
So, uh, I figure in case anybody in the audience is like but h bomber guy is right. We'll just present a quick counter. So, um
Do you think there are any let's let's open it up
Fringy, do you think do you think there's any position in politics that is anything but binary?
Uh
Do I think that politics is binary isn't there in every single element of every conversation that takes place? Well
My first question would be what is left and what is right? What is the line that divides them?
I can explain that to you. It's uh, it's the one is correct and one is incorrect
Right, this is what I mean like I don't I don't know what left and right only vaguely like they're very vague
You know, you can only really identify far left and far right, but otherwise it's like what?
I don't understand these these these parties that you basically made up in your head
There's only three parties, right? There is
Um liberal communist
conservative nazi
And centrism which is worse than both combined. Absolutely. I know that because the internet told me
You know like in terms of the whole centrist thing like there are certain things about
You know, oh look at me
I'm so rational in the middle, but they actually aren't in the middle like for real because there's more than one middle
You know what I mean? Like there's more than one middle. It's a spectrum
I just love how he's so definitive when simultaneously arguing that everything is subjective
Yeah, like one of the responses to this we're okay
So there's a right and a wrong when it comes to everything in politics and yet gender as a spectrum
Well, I guess my question would be does he think that he is right on everything that he thinks like I know that he thinks
He's right. But does he think that there's any capacity for him being wrong? Does he think that he can't be wrong?
Yeah, but he might think that because he's an idiot who is that full of himself
Has he never changed his mind though? Has he never ever just been like oh i've changed my mind on that
I don't think the same thing I used to because if you ever done that then you should never say something like this
I just I just I love to just straight up ask him. I'd be like gun control all guns. No guns
Are they the only two options?
Is the is there anything in between any kind of regulations controls or moderation?
Or compromise between these two positions or is it because he describes it later in one of these tweets as
Yeah, you can have those things, but they would just be
Slightly wrong as opposed to straight wrong
Or slightly right?
He puts it akin to drinking poison you've drank a little bit of poison instead of the whole cup
What if you're wrong though, what if you're the wrong one?
And even then I mean when we talk about moderation that I
There's a conflation because um, I think
There are a few people I know who say i'm a I would call myself a centrist because I have a variety of far left and far
Right views and then you've got the the straw man, which is the fence sitter who doesn't have any
Opinions and is only interested in the middle road, you know, like let's do half of what you want in half
They're not the same thing
But yeah
They're both described the same way someone who's I guess supports his idea posted like a little picture of
One side says kill all black people the other side says
And the guy in the middle is like can we have a compromise and it's like see that guy's like that's wrong
And it's like that's such a straw man
Like what the hell yeah, I know i've i've seen that one plenty and that gets like thousands of likes and it
It's you know, it's one of those things that makes you wonder why you're even alive anymore
Yeah, uh, he deleted it and I don't I don't know why from his perspective because he is known to basically just
It took him like a half or more of a year to admit there was anything wrong with his ds2 video when it was like he
No holes
He is uh shockingly persistent in the face of all reality that he's not incorrect ever
Well in a way that is legitimately fascinating
Someone in chat said on the idea of drinking some poison chemotherapy which will kill you but not enough and it can kill the cancer
It's like moderation
moderation is a thing that we all know is good, you know radiation and moderation is perfectly fine
Well, you know like, you know, a little bit of water is okay
But if you drink too much, you'll literally die from water poisoning
Even water in moderation. It's fascinating. I'd love to explore it with it
But I don't think he's ever gonna talk to me or anyone
Why not? That's because he's a massive. He is a massive
And he probably votes twice
I think like I i've only i've seen a few of his videos sometimes i'm like, oh, that's uh, that's actually pretty good
And then there are some times where i'm just like, I don't know where you got that
Like I saw he made a he made a video on um, you know that that comic uh control alt delete
Yeah one that had the last meme
Um, he started comparing it to the room and implying that both the room and CAD
like inadvertently made a lot of commentaries on
Bad things about the nature of gamers and men and it was just like man. You're really you're really really
Right. You like why not? Why not? Right just apply anything everything what he had inferred was that the room
Was inadvertently telling us what tommy wizzo's opinion is on like breakups
And he was he was sort of trying to get at that. Um men
just men
tend to
this is what he thinks anyway tend to like
view when women break up with them that it's something wrong with them and and then they don't look to themselves and i'm
And all I can think is like how can you say that?
Well, you understand that how look let's let's be frank how much experience with women
Do you think age bonner actually has how did?
Don't say that otherwise you won't go on the e-fat. Oh, yeah. We've already called him a massive like it's pretty much done at this point
I mean
Too bad, I suppose. Um
So I I mean since it was a relevant thing for movies. I was gonna say the oscars happened. Uh
I don't know how many things we're gonna say about this, but I went on to um,
mr
Cj's podcast the great british podcast talk about it and um cynic snax said army of darkness is bad
He needs to be stopped. Everyone needs to tell him he's a bad man
What's army of darkness the third evil dead movie technically?
Evil dead is like a protected trilogy. You're not allowed to criticize it. He said it's bad
And uh, we need to we need to find and stop his his army of pizza
That's just wrong. But um, yeah, we'll just keep that going as a meme
You got loads of criticism for it as well in his own chat they were like it's not bad
He was like it is bad. I enjoy it, but it's bad. It was like
Um, I on the oscars though, uh green book one best picture
And you know, I I saw that movie. Um, we did too
You only like it because you only liked it because it's green. It's black. Well, I think
You know, it's funny. It's funny you say that
The thing is that one is very oscubatey and you know, I liked it, but I mean best picture like really
Well, think about all the movies that came out in 2018 and how there's only six that are actually good
Are we going to talk about out of what was nominated or out of everything in 2018?
Uh, I mean out of everything, what would you say was your favorite movie?
I would say oh my favorite movie or
Well, my favorite movie would be mission impossible. Yeah, I was gonna say actually
But objectively
Objectively, I I honestly think the green book does deserve it because I thought that was a really good movie
I like it. I do like it. Um, I think the acting is great
But um, I just think it's very i'm i'm sure that i've seen movies like it before, you know
And the whole um racism in america in the 60s thing
I guess maybe maybe I was expecting it to be a little bit more
A little bit worse than it was. You know what I mean?
Like there weren't that many bad things that happened as opposed to you know in some other movies where it's like actually pretty grim
What do you mean like we didn't see enough?
Drama in different ways. Yeah, I guess so it um
To explore some of the things like there's that scene where
I can't remember the character's names
But vigo mortinson finds the black guy and the ymca with the other dude
Yeah, we should explore that a little bit more because I was like, oh he's gay. Okay
I thought that was interesting. Let's talk about that a little bit, but the movie just kind of forgot it afterward
My favorite scene was the scene where um
Where mehershala ali, I can't remember it was doctor something. Yeah, i'd have to watch it
Was it was when he got really pissed off when vigo said that he's more black than uh than he is
Yeah
And um, and then he has the whole thing about like if i'm not wide enough if i'm not wide enough to be white
And i'm not black enough to be black than what am I was like? Oh, that's actually that's good. I like this
I just like
Oscar baiting and i'd be like you see what's the difference he needs to understand that moderation is a delusion
He can't be in the middle
Yeah, I just I don't know. Uh, when people refer to something as Oscar bait
I usually think they mean an emotional scene that was almost shoved in right? Um
With a character's like at their wits and crying and it's all insane
Because like the one I always think about is do you guys ever see seven pounds?
I haven't heard of it. There's a see it's a it's a movie about how will smith is like depressed
I but this is this i haven't seen it since it came out just ages ago
But i'm pretty sure he wants to kill himself and he decides that he's going to
not only donate all of his organs but find specific people that he's going to give all his organs to
And um, there's like a scene where he's just in his car
And it's like goes silent and he starts crying and screaming and banging his like
Dashboard and I remember being like wait, what? Oh, oh, and I was like, why is this in here?
I don't know. Alex be like, I think it's for the oscar. Oh, he's in his car. Oscar baiting
Yeah, that's that's kind of how i've always
Felt what it means is when they try and take something controversial and then they make a big emotional scene
You're like, this is the part where they're like, can you please give us an Oscar for this?
I guess um
What you notice though is there is really a class division between films that can get oscars like action movies comedies
Are just not eligible
Really?
Yeah, and science fiction as well. Yeah, I just thought that moment where he like rants about being black and stuff
I was like that felt very earned felt like uh, yeah, it did. It was it was like the whole point of the movie really
Yeah, I I had a lot of fun
And I really liked I really liked all the scenes where he was like trying to write letters to his wife
And yeah, that was good. He just didn't have very good english skills
I thought they were adorable moments in that movie. Yeah, and it ends with him writing one and then he goes
This is perfect. It's like oh so good
It's really like that movie it is a good movie. I guess um, I was surprised was all anyone
Yeah, I mean I would not say it's my favorite movie because mission impossible fallout. That's such a fucking good film
but
I wonder if anyone could tell what opposition on that is
Oh
I was gonna say has anyone here seen the favorite
No, I might try and force some of you guys to watch that I thought it was really good
It's a movie about queen an and her
And maidens and oh, yeah, of course. I don't want that is they're competing to remain in her favor and it's uh
Very interesting. At least I found it to be i'm surprised didn't win costume design over black panther. I don't really know why
Uh, it was I thought it was really good, but I guess it could have gone to either of them. I don't know
Um, um, I mean, thank god black panther wasn't nominated for best visual effects
Best picture that would have been sad
But even then infinity war should have won best visual effects first man had good visual effects like it did but
Thanos man like
Yeah
Someone in the chat said that we should watch yms's video on captain marvel because apparently he straw man's people's objection to the film
Well, I mean no people wouldn't do that
You're saying that yms
Occasionally actually more than often has really retarded opinions on things
Oh god, well the thing, you know like yms i'm just gonna say it your quickies fucking suck
Stop making them you have made like so many videos and i've watched
most of them from last year
And I can say I liked like three of them
His take on my mission impossible fallout was hilarious
Yeah, your mission impossible fallout take is fucking garbage. You have a bad opinion on that movie
Um, what are you gonna say freaky? Sorry, just like you lied about glass too. We can talk about that sometime adam
Oh jeez, that's like a threat
Yeah, hold on because adam fucking said glass was a one out of ten
And i'm not gonna sit here and say that glass is some wonderful film
I would give what and uh, are you kidding? He gave glass a one but captain marvel a four
I would say that glass was like a five
It's mostly that ending that really messes everything up because m knight just had to fuck it all up at the end
But adam like totally just misrepresented that movie completely
Well, there you go. I don't want it to have to be the one that defends a movie
That's not even good in the first place, but god damn. We're gonna have yms versus wolf death
Yeah
Yeah, he said I think he said he doesn't really want to come on efap if it's covering a video
We might be able to get him to just discuss movies though
Nice and fiery by the looks of hold on yms wants to come on efap
But doesn't want to do the thing that efap is literally done
Well, he didn't ask to come on. I asked if he would and he said he wouldn't want to be covering a video
I think it's because he just doesn't want to create, you know, animosity
With another creator. Okay
Oh elisa just like wolf misrepresented elita tabola, oh
Shots fine. You don't even know what my opinion of elita is. I mean
You you said it wasn't very good. That's what I know
Yeah
I mean I I came out of the movie initially like not like really hating it and then as I thought about it more I was
Like I don't despise this film. It's not good. It's pretty bad, but
There was potential there. I wish it was like three hours long because another hour could have made it like legitimately good
But it has some of the worst world building
It has the absolute worst romance i've ever seen it actually makes the one from aquaman look great by comparison. I disagree
I disagree with really I think I think think that nobody relationship was good
Well, no, I don't think it was good. I just think that it was better than aquaman because in aquaman
They didn't spend any time on it like at least in this movie
They spent some time on it
the reason why I think the one from aquaman is better is because at least the characters
As dumb as some of the things about them were they were at least likable
There was nothing likable about what's his name hugo in elita. Is that what his name is? Uh, yeah
Yeah
Yeah, because well they're the only two characters whose names I remember and the only
Because elita the movie's named after her, of course
I'm going to remember her name and then hugo because she said his name every 15 seconds of the film
um
Uh, it was really just because I liked the characters in aquaman more than I liked elitas. I like jason mamoa
I think he's uh karazhan. Well, yeah, it's hard not to like jason. Momoa
But uh, but how much of that can you attribute to the actual film?
Well nothing really and how much to his pecs?
Um all of it because my thing with aquaman was it just totally came out of nowhere like she seems to have
Display outright contempt towards him and then like 10 minutes later, you know, she's like, oh he's actually not so bad
Yeah, I know. I it's literally just because I liked the character
They were more entertaining, but hugo is like I want to go up to the sky city
Why I don't fucking know. I don't even know what the sky city's supposed to be because the work the movie has the worst
Oh, fuck off
That is not an argument. That is not an argument
If a movie doesn't explain what the sky city is what the war was what the war was fought over
Why the martian technology is apparently not able to be salvageable by those marshes by the earth?
Yeah, wait, it's like a martian battle
Thing and the martians have big eyes for some reason the movie doesn't explain why the main character main character
Sorry main villain can possess people it never explains who he can possess why he can possess them why he possesses them in the first place
Why he's in the sky city? What's so great about the sky city?
Why is the last sky city none of this shit is explained and all these dumb fucking people are like well
It's just like it's just like the manga. I don't care if it's just like the manga
That doesn't say anything about the film
But look i'm going to read the manga and i'm going to talk exclusively about the world building because the world building
Was the worst part about alita. I'm more just like
Disappointed by alita because there was something there
That they could have done something with
I wish the movie was like an extra hour long to flush these things out because there was so much potential
But it was squandered by no development for the things that it really needed development on
The thing is I think I think I give that film a little bit more credit because um
I'm aware of the fact that they actually wanted to make it like this is something they wanted to make for
He wanted to make it until he decided that
People was more
Yeah
Uh, I correct me if i'm wrong, but there's been someone you've been trying to say for a while for me or have you said it now
I'm sorry
I have my white male privilege. All right now you can say
I figured while we're on the subject of movies captain marvel. Oh
Well comes out in a second the last thing I wanted to say was then you'll be interested in this was spider-verse is really good
Yeah, it's great. I'm glad I got the best animation oscar. It deserved it. Absolutely
Spider-man film of the year is going to be a new category
Okay, far from home looks like it's gonna be good i'm hoping
You know spider-man is uh reliable lately, which is good except for venom
But that doesn't count does it and yeah
I could have seen myself doing a praise for spider-man if i'd watched it when it came out
But I just didn't understand what was happening. I was like, it's an animation about spider-man
I was like, okay, and then like everyone I knew was like you should see it. I was like, oh, okay
It it achieves so much though, like every character has something going on and there's there's an arc in every character
Hello, you know no spider-man. So cool. And he's nicholas cage. No, spider-man is great. Yeah
Every character and arc
well, I I guess um because
Everybody had
Something I mean the main three basically they all had something going on that they had to try and get over people
Jay says
Jay says you've finally seen spider-verse. Okay. Okay. Jay. Jay. You don't want to go here. Let's let's jump into that
I have some things to say about jay. This is gonna be this is gonna be the show where I get very angry. So, uh
There's a question that floats around the universe and that is
Is it are you a bad person if you haven't seen all the rings?
The answer is yes, but it's it's a question of like are you a worse person?
If you've seen the first one and not continued to watch
Now jay
We have to have a little discussion here. It would seem that you don't get to you don't get to ever say
Like something to the effect of oh you finally seen or played or read or done x because here's the thing jay
You've done nothing
And then on top of that
You watch the fellowship with the ring
It leaves off on like the best kind of cliffhanger possible because it's not something that leaves you unsatisfied
It leaves you with story more to tell
Characters to follow but it doesn't like just leave you off on a bunch of cliffhangers that don't go anywhere, right?
So jay
Despite this decides i'm not going to finish the other two movies. I'm just going to watch the first one and leave it at that
jay
Hey, i'm not happy with you
Jay just say that you watched the second two and say you can't answer any questions. You got to go
I'm still processing how amazing they are
Yeah, you know he needs time to absorb the first one both. There you go
I watch all three in like a day like three times a month. You don't have an excuse jay
You don't have an excuse jay over jay wolf has the high ground
I am surprised that
I'm just jay left
Like how can you watch the fellowship of the ring and not be like oh I want to see these characters succeed
I want to I want to follow their journey to the end
I mean I might not watch them just to see wolf explode jay if I explode
That means i'm launching off like a nuclear missile to your exact coordinates and i'm going to nuke you're already
Defending arrival against him. You don't want him even more angry
Well, he's going to eat you and then not jay. He'll just be back up
Like that that alien from men in black too
Yes, all the one from captain marvel which allows us to slide oh
Clarification in the last was it the last efap? No, it was when I was on cynical cj stream
I thought patrick williams was DMing me. I'm assuming it was just a troll that had his name and icon
So if anyone was wondering about that, no, and it's a couple people said pyro wants to be on
Uh efap. I don't think it's the real pyro on twitter from what we understand about his youtube advertising a different twitter. So
People think that's the real pyrocynical. I don't think it is and I have no idea whether or not pyrocynical actually watches efap
I'd be surprised. Um
either way
Captain marvel, uh who here has seen us me and fringy, right?
Yep, yeah, i'm just not gonna watch it at all. I don't think i'm i don't think i'm going to
See it
Wouldn't I wouldn't recommend it? It's pretty bad
It's almost exactly what was expected
It is funny. Yeah, the funny thing was um, both mauler and I had seen it. I think I said that I thought it was like
Lower on the mid-tier spectrum, but I thought it was like, you know, it was it was just painfully. Okay
Painfully, okay
Yeah, honestly though man, like, you know, ironman 3 is is worse but like it's kind of funny to watch, you know
like but uh
But I just I got I got very little out of captain marvel
But then we started talking about it and then it's like oh
Yeah, we had like a good few hours of just going over the plot and like none of it makes any fucking sense
It's all really stupid and there's no there's so many things i'm making a video for i've already written the script
But you can expect it in probably like five days or something. But yes, you're getting an unbridled meh for captain marvel
It's bad as far as i'm concerned right now. It's the third worst in the mcu
behind black panther and ironman 3
I would prefer to watch thor one and two than captain marvel by far
I mean it yeah it like because i remember when I walked out of it. I'm like, there are plot holes
I just need to think about it
You know, sometimes you just know that you've watched something that isn't
Sound and then you just need to think about it. But yes, they are
The catalyst for the plot is um illogical the villains. Um
They like their time mythology is quite a lot to actually break down all the different
There's a problem in every department. Um
I would side I get because people most people have been saying the cgi was good
The only thing I ever found about the cgi was sometimes when she was flying around. She looked a bit rubbery. That's about it
I think uh the cgi was
Was all right. It's much better than black panther. I can see that much. Oh, yeah, it was. Um, but I think that's a very low bar
Uh, the the lasser just said mole doesn't like thor one. Uh
I don't hate it. I just it's just it bores me. Yeah, it's a bit meh
Yeah, are there people that well, I know that's the answer but how how many people in the world realistically would
willingly defend thor one and two
Like um anything I think for one you could defend more so than thor two
Well, um sure you could defend it both arms. It'll be because of loki
Both times. Yeah, that's I was about to say it'll be
Lokey four one and two are garbage. I don't even like thor three. But man, is it way better than four one and two? Um
Um, I think one of the key things that someone said hashtag not me
Me
I think um hashtag not me if you would defend thor one or two
One of the uh, I think key observations that we made after talking about that movie was that
Unlike a lot of characters in the mcu were very well defined and understandable
Um, and you could sum them up in a couple of words, but with captain marvel, it's it's way too inconsistent
like it's it's hard to
It's hard to say who she is
It captain marvel in three words
Um strong female protagonists
Well, you only know that because they told you in the film several times. Well, you haven't seen it. Well
Sometimes well, I I don't mind a few subtle hints like them telling me directly
Uh, they do like to tell you things directly
You know, oh she she's funny, you know, this this character is always making sure you are funny and your jokes are
Listen to uh, my my take on the comedy was
She tries to be funny but her jokes are not funny
I I honestly don't wouldn't go as far as saying they're not funny
it's the the kind of jokes say for example, we're all just hanging out and um
Some guy is like running in front of us and he trips over and I go watch out mate
And the rest of you guys are like
Yeah, it's it's one of those. It's one of those jokes where you just basically go
And it's like that's it, you know, it's the kind of joke you don't devote screen time to
Well, that's that's my problem. It's gonna get real lost. It's it's a million dollar script or whatever
You know like high budget scripts and it's just jokes that are so okay
So many jokes. I'm just like that was
Discord call jokes
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Well, yeah
Do you remember like I actually stand by this infinity war is like the most dramatic and sorrowful of all the mcu films
And yet it's probably the one that made me laugh the most outside of maybe ragnarok
So many fucking amazing jokes in uh, infinity war that are character-based while in this movie. It's like, um
The best example I have is the they have this scanner
The fring you'll know what i'm talking about and it scans it scans the cat and it says threat level high and it's like
They scan fury and it goes threat level low to minimal and then you know
The camera cuts in on fury and he goes that thing's busted
Yeah, and you're like, oh that's okay
Yeah, you could have been that funnier
Yeah, timing
There was like a windows 95 joke that was pretty funny. That's probably my favorite joke in the whole film. Yeah
Honestly, that's probably about it
um, otherwise, it's just like
Man, I don't know man. I'm just because I remember when I first saw it
I was like, I think people are going to be disappointed
I think even the people who are really looking forward to it are going to be disappointed
But apparently a decent amount of people really like it and i'm very surprised because i'm not sure what they see in it that
I don't that's weird because everybody that i've like seen and looked at
That I that I even halfway sort of interested in their opinion. They're like at best they're like, yeah
Well, I uh angry joe likes it. Um, which is angry joe likes a lot of things though
When it comes to angry joe
The only thing worth listening to him to is his video game review
His movie reviews are garbage even when he's right is usually wrong about I think I think
The one thing that turned me off was um
They were talking about that, you know titans the uh, the dc show titans
Um, one of the guys on there said that in the first episode it had better action than daredevil and I nearly flipped my desk
Look
The fact is right
We've just talked about this me and fringy put out tweets
And then we talked about the movie for just an hour or so and now those tweets are almost
uh obsolete
Like like what we've said is not really how and so my point is when you have an instant reaction review
You'll end up like chris duckman or jerry johns or angry joe or yms who's falling for this as well
Where you say like exactly how you felt immediately?
And then you you watch the film again
And it's going to be harder for you to actually change your mind compared to when you had before because you've already put out your video
Your assessment you're like, oh, well, I kind of I kind of said yeah, that's this
That's exactly you have to be like total lope. I was wrong
Some time video game and everyone's so desperate to get a video because like this is the thing
I've already taken three days now to write my script. I need to redraft it once and then record
And throughout recording i'll be redrafting. I'll be like, oh
Then I go do all my editing and then it'll go out to friends to be like how's this
You know and blah blah and then it goes out like all of that happens instead of me
Just going recording with a picture of the poster saying captain marvel sucks. It's not very funny characters. Not very good
I hate it 10 out of 10
Yeah, I mean, I think I think with all movies you you need to you need to wait because uh
Your initial reaction is probably going to be different from what happens when you think about it a bit more
because I think I think
A lot of the movies that um, I end up going. Oh, it's actually bad
I have to actually it's like oh except for predator the predator. I figured out immediately that it sucked
Yeah, a lot of movies like I thought black panther was actually good when I first saw it
Yeah, my scores for both black panther and captain marvel and infinity war funnily enough. We're much higher
Immediately than they are compared to even days later
I still like infinity war a lot though
And there are things that I didn't notice in my first viewing that I appreciate now
So, uh, it it varies, you know, sometimes you find out the film's even better than what you thought
Um
But yeah, that's that's about it. That's again
an hour and eight minute intro
And uh, we've got more beeps to cover today than ever like I said, but it'll these are two logs
So it should it should be pretty good
And like I said, some of them will have jared references in them
But this will be the last episode where we show them
It's just so that we try and get some of the work out that's been done already because it
Obviously kind of sucks that there's gonna be people who have to undo them. But is everybody on uh, on watch together?
Oh, we're on yep
Oh
Oh, wait, is this man geez?
By the way, I had a
Family
I um
I had a funny idea for a meme to do a meme video and I think we'll like it because it's got the lord of the rings
um
Man, do I want to talk about what my idea is though? I don't know
I I feel like if you talk if you describe it's like it's like explaining a joke, you know
Well, just make the meme and start making videos again
Yeah, but it's like it's gonna be a lot of work to do it. So it's like i'm trying to toss it up
Yeah, but it would be so much easier to just tell us what you would have done. Yeah, sure. Uh, well, all right
All right, let's watch some me this is from uh, sorry, what's the name depressed director?
and uh since it's power rangers, I'm probably gonna have to do some pausing but um
Uh, yeah, I know did it does that even do anything?
Oh, yeah, it does. It totally does. Uh, it's the problem with the rogue one one that got me was that it was music and music
Didn't have anywhere between three seconds as low as three seconds to clip you on it
So all i'm doing is the standard like seven to eight second visual one, but even my part two for tfa
I was getting clipped on seven second
Parts in my video and I was like what the fuck youtube it's taking a bit far
However, the video hasn't been taken down yet. So that's a good sign
I would rather it that they give me the claims before I release it than after you know
I mean
Well, that's what that goes as for the stream
I'm just trying to prevent us from actually being taken down immediately because uh, do you want to?
maybe you should upload your video as unlisted and then
Get that started and then once all that's cleared then make it public
Also, that's what i'm saying. I do
You should do that
He does though. Yeah do that. I you know rags i'm gonna do that from now on
Um, but yeah, it should it should help i'll throw some pause in here. But here we go
You're kind of watching movie stuff
Movie bob is is tonal. What's he doing back there?
Uh, this is a problem. I don't know. I don't know power rages law, but this is perfect. I don't either
He seems to actually movie bob's the fat one
I
Know what a plot hole is
I think that's the discord. That's the discord symbol, right? Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, what's up guys?
No, that's clever that's my face from my amnesia video turning into the new
Fuck
Jason
So one of the things that's interesting is they're all using old pictures of us and they turn into the new ones we now use
That's cool
Foreign
Back when fringy's profile picture looked like a green sperm cell
You just look like a weird green
Fucking skull
They did it, okay way to be dead I like that driving in the e-fat car
That's good, oh that's good my face hurts from smiling
Um
That's one
Here I will say this power rangers in space had the best theme song though infinity
uh
This next one is from bleh bitch. I believe we have like four from bleh which
Which today the problem obviously is that they stacked up a little bit while we were away
This one's called ultimate objectivity
Infinity war is a fair example
Vula really does phone this one in jack kindly. Fuck you. You're watching movies long. Does that not already sound incredibly pretentious?
Uh, this is um danganron
It's what
danganronpa the uh
It's uh, like
A bunch of students are in a school and to escape they have to kill someone and get away with it in a class trial
Oh, it's uh, it's actually really cool. Oh, oh, yeah a couple people recognize everything
Because i'm like, what are you doing mark?
Selma fails as a horror game. I would honestly love to hear you say you don't actually find any games scary
You get to look at women. Should we just let chat respond?
I love that they've all got a catch
And and that the hair goes over him too, yeah
There is no means to factually prove worth
His opinions are objective and the opinions of people who disagree with him
Objection pieces do not exist
And you don't know how discussions are meant to function. Oh, man
He says so many pretentious things in that video. You don't know how discussions are meant to function
Also, we won't have a discussion with you
Guilty
Beautiful that was good. I don't think that was my favorite
That one's great
Oh, you're talking about the the argument one right
Yeah, that one's that one's on the docket. We're getting there
So we're gonna get through so this is manga writer
and uh, it's called
Efap trailer
And he said the music is hasn't gone him claims, but um, he's not sure if it's safe
So i'll just be trying to pause here and there we'll hope
for the best
You
From the deaths of the cesspool that is youtube
There is a show that you have probably never heard of
A show held by three youtubers who have made names for themselves to tackle the worst of the worst
Wolf a retired soldier with a lust for insults
He really needs to make that fucking awful goddamn haircut. How did people subscribe?
I don't get it. I watched the tro one
That picture is so funny
It takes more than one person to make this garbage, uh, what a fucking
faggot
In mauler the skull appears with the voice of a god, but if I if I poop off of a cliff
Joining them on these adventures are many other likable guests
In the end
Ladies and gentlemen sit back and take a day to yourself and join the ride of the podcast every frame of pause
for the more iconic title
Efap
Do you just you have to say it if you say it it means it's true
From potato extractor something they pour it in the seat
All right next is
I think yeah, this is so this is the second history of efap. I think it is because we saw him before
Was it third? Yes, the third history of efap. Okay
And this is from good old creamy sheave palpatine
Merenda and your lives will be spared
Fuck you quinton
That's seamless absolutely seamless sounds exactly like a real quote
I'm, sorry old friend
Queer theory
How come i'm always
Rhino would you smell
Just right
I've had like cheap some of the jokes
I realized that if if wolf is adequate rags is it padme? I oh, well, baby. There was some
Me daddy going on there
Me on your fire planet the vengeance music as well just put it on anything
I
Think the more episodes we have as well the more guests who have to be involved. It's like impossible to fit everyone
All my
I just love that bilbous there, too
Oh
Depressed rags and chice and none of these beat the kingsman one including mine in fairness. It is fucking hard to beat the kingsman one
Oh, that's tough
That's so much in there
Half-eaten yo yo
That would actually tell someone that wasn't too bad
Based pipe anyways guys, I apologize. He's a queer
The history of part three, um
Right, so this is this is the anime ish one again, and this is this is titled
Uh efap season one episode 10 the end of the quinton arc
Is this it will be an anime for this one day it'll make sense people will animate it
But you put all the meme videos together. That's how it'll work
Fair your buttocks
Is
100
I don't ever see any of these.
He's going to use all of it.
I read out one chat message.
And that was attributed to me.
Even when I streamed the other day,
one of the first things that popped up in the chat was someone saying that.
It's like, oh god.
Just accept it.
It wasn't even my quote.
It is that.
Heh heh.
Wreck.
Wreck.
Someone said you didn't recall.
Don't talk.
Don't talk.
Oh, man. Is there actually a meme on there that says rhino?
A simple something?
It ends with milk. I can't quite read it.
Can't quite tell.
Don't talk.
Don't talk.
Don't talk.
Don't talk.
There's poor Quentin, you know?
With all this.
Wreck.
At least you're here for you.
Weird cow monster.
The giant alien cow thing that Luke milks.
He's one of my favorite additions to the whole series.
That's the magic William Phillips quote.
That's really good.
That's really good.
The subtitles are so good.
Thanks and logic, what's that?
That was Blair Bitch again as well.
Oh, that's great.
The memes keep on coming.
This one is from...
This is a different creator as well. I think we haven't seen this one before.
Antihero69.
I like that Patrick Willems is Billy.
This is the best part.
That's it. I'm out of here.
This video is different.
I guess I just stopped becoming me at that point.
How come you're not out of a scene?
Why do you insist we watch this stupid thing?
Am I the only one who understands?
The theme of this ambitious cinematic masterpiece?
This movie isn't stupid.
This works so well.
This is perfect.
Oh my god, that was my favorite show back in the day.
We need to start calling him Billy.
Do you remember the Efab Adventures one?
Where it was like we had cutouts.
I think Wolf's head was put on the body of the guy from GTA 5.
Oh yeah.
There's a second one.
I've played this before so we'll go with it.
It's from the Spawn Camp channel.
What the fuck?
What are you doing?
You're watching movies wrong.
Huh?
Mortar soup.
Pleasant.
I like that.
The big red door has really nice interior decorating.
Mount Pleasant.
I'm sorry, what?
What the hell is going on?
Oh, bloody hell.
Oh dear.
I have no idea what that's from.
It's best you don't know.
They are here.
I've done it six fucking times already.
Do you know what these movies did to him?
He thinks he's a xenomorph now.
A fucking xenomorph.
So here's the thing.
Please explain some of this.
At least some of this.
Seriously.
Yeah, this is the same guy who does the wrestling ones, I guess.
I can't remember if this is before or after actually, because I didn't know about this one for a while.
Is there actually any wrestling in this game?
Because I've never actually seen any wrestling in this game.
He has a video of the actual fight, but I can't remember how it like...
It's just like standard sort of wrestling moves being done over and over again.
Alright, this is the one that Rags said was his favorite.
And this is from Blavitch again.
Is he not to Blavitch memes?
Okay, listen, we can have this discussion again.
I don't fucking care.
Anyone who's not following, I just hit the button to start the elevator music.
And that makes fists.
But you can't have a fists apparently.
Even though fists are connected.
No, they're not.
Yes, they are.
Fists?
Yes, fists are connected.
Every part of your body is connected, Wolf.
Yeah, you did it!
Little face change on Rags when he went, ahh, you did it!
Oh, it's so good. I can watch it a million times.
Oh, damn.
There's one... I don't know if it's changed.
Might have to do it next time, but there was one for Timminator 2 with me like shooting loads of critics.
But it says video unavailable right now, so...
Might have been taken down for copyright, I don't know.
We have two more, three more.
But they're quick.
This next one's, oh, this is Blavitch again, so...
This is a showcase for them.
Enjoy.
Frank, what the hell are you doing, man?
That's my...
It looks so natural.
That's what his body actually looks like.
Come on, Danny DeVito looks better than Eric.
Eric's got like segments of fat.
Danny's at least kind of respectable.
Hang on, I'll let it in case there are no more jokes.
Frank, what the hell are you doing, man?
It's my character. I'm the trash man.
I come out, I throw trash all over the ring.
And then I start eating garbage, and then I pick up...
All three of us are just like, what?
And I embarrass the guy on it.
That's gonna be a disaster.
Beautiful.
That's so good.
What a showcase has been today.
This one's called Balla's Bizarre Adventure.
I'm gonna assume that that's related to JoJo's Bizarre Adventure,
because I know what that is, because I'm hip with the kids.
This is Jesse Wham made this one.
When you take away nitpicks about the story,
thoughts about the characters, and if it fits into canon,
which is all basically just fan stuff,
there is very little that...
I can't believe he said that.
I can't believe he said that.
I have to say about how this movie was actually bad.
I could literally go on forever about why this movie is so stupid.
Don't worry, we'll start from the beginning,
because there's a whole bunch to go through this one.
Could be the longest efap in history.
Yeah, we just wanted to make sure that you got to
spend a long time looking at Quentin's incredibly pungible face.
Look at the chat.
That your anger could bubble and rise.
The Last Jedi is an abomination.
It's an insult to everything Star Wars is and was.
Oh, Wolf, why do you hate TLJ so much?
It's a narrative disaster that destroys everything I've loved about this series.
Well, well, well, I guess we should...
We'll mention this.
Your next sentence.
Considering what was said today.
No!
Just by talking to people, if you have already been accused of being alright, I will soon be...
Jay, that's a visual representation of what's going to happen during our debate.
God, he said he's seen Arrival more than he's seen, or thought about even, or the ranks.
I'm sure he's prepared.
That is...
That just disappoints the hell out of me.
So, it's true. You are alright.
It brings me joy. It brings me joy.
As of the last podcast with Cinema Sin Sins, I tell people we're...
We literally find a new problem with this movie every single time.
We talk about it.
The simple fact of the matter is that the optimal fire rate is...
Has anyone seen this anime, by the way?
I have no idea. No idea.
Bring your nudes if you don't.
What brain is this anime?
Is this an anime move?
Is this a moo moo?
No answer. Alright.
Not the most consistent, meaning that even if you consistently pace your shots with pinpoint precision,
the guy firing with the optimal fire rate...
What's that taken from, Wolf?
Oh, that's from my Halo Reach video.
Someone actually got mad about it.
I commented something to the effect of...
I was saying that this was like something game-breaking and...
Well, I proved in the video it kind of was.
Because it takes all the skill out of the multiplayer.
Halo Reach fans are kind of dumb.
I enjoy Halo Reach. Does that make me evil?
I like Halo Reach.
You're wrong.
Without consistency, there's just as much of a chance at killing you as you are at killing him.
Was that a cold of violence, Wolf?
Was that a cold of violence?
I think so.
The eyes.
How am I always the woman?
Always the woman.
He's not even the same people.
Here's the thing.
I f***ing hate Trump.
Oh dear.
Alright.
And I can't believe we've actually managed to do this.
This is the last one now, and it's a new animation from No Consistency.
Who asked as well if people are interested?
I'll probably do it before and after, but No Consistency has a Patreon.
I suppose he's saying like if you want to jump on there, then he might make more animations.
I don't know.
I'm not exactly sure of what he's doing with this channel fully, but there's a link if anybody is interested in the chat.
And I guess I will put all these things in the description by the time it's uploaded on Moolah.
But here we go.
Is anyone going to mention the pirate plank behind you?
This is part of the helicopter that they found.
This is not a plank. It's a pirate plank.
Just bear with me here. What if?
What if that's actually Noah's ark and he had a plank so you could throw the animals off to make this behave?
That would totally make sense in the world of Predator.
And this is where Noah's ark landed, so that's why there's a plank.
I just love the idea that it's...
You know, I'm 90% sure that's a part of the helicopter they found.
But if CinemaSins is convinced that there's a random pirate's plank in the middle of the set, why would they make a pirate plank?
I guess that's what his point is. It's like you have to comment on it. It's like, okay.
Beautiful. Again, he's saying he's opened up on Patreon.
I think he's looking just to see what people are interested in, so check it out.
And that's it for memes. And we're an hour and 40 minutes in. That's good.
We've gone almost two hours and haven't even started the video.
I got food in this time. I ate my dinner as we were doing this.
I watched Mission Impossible Fallout casually as a collective of watching everything that came out in 2018.
I was really impressed. I was like, holy shit, this is way better than it has any right to be because I've always thought the Mission Impossible films were just...
I'm good. This is the first Mission Impossible I've seen and I loved it.
Yeah, it was really good. I was impressed. Fallout was great.
I'm of the opinion that they've been getting better and better.
I'd have to rewatch them. I love the first one.
What's binge watch all of them? It's not like we don't already watch like 10 movies.
That's true. We can totally do that, actually. I really like the third one as well because of the villain.
Either way, it got a lot of praise.
The only person I knew that didn't like it was YMS.
YMS, he just sometimes makes really awful videos.
Yeah, he was interesting to say the least.
Interesting in how bad it was.
Then I got directed to a video called Mission Impossible Fallout is a bad movie.
I was like, oh, you know, let's hear someone disagree because it's almost universal. The film was pretty much liked.
A lot of critics said it was their pick for 2018 and that it's the best Fallout Mission Impossible movie.
So it's like, OK, I would say it's the best Mission Impossible movie.
I would agree with that, though I do need to rewatch them to really make a substantive argument.
But I've never been as impressed as I was with this one.
Let's do it. Let's do it.
In some Ren's reviews, he's said that he's interested in coming on to talk about this video if we're going to criticize it.
He was criticized by Turbo button on Twitter.
And I offered to a button to come on to the top to talk about this video.
And he was like, I don't want to stop beef, which is like what to a button does a lot to it.
So I totally get it.
Like he keeps getting drawn into one on one conversations to try and clarify stuff because he did it with me.
But apparently, I don't know if they've talked. I hope they they've worked out whatever was going on there.
But, yeah, he'll be welcome on after we've covered it. And, yeah, that's what we're doing today.
So if anybody hasn't seen Mission Impossible Fallout, I'd probably recommend skipping the rest of this ephep, watching it and then come back to watch the coverage of it.
It is a really awesome movie as far as I'm concerned. And oh, yeah, if you haven't seen it, you just should. It's just a good.
Yeah. Yeah. And of course, like I said, Ren's reviews, you'll be welcome on the following epheb once over this.
I'll probably Twitter or PM in whatever once once this episode.
But you might end up in chat since we've apparently got a bit of a history of that happening.
And if he does, maybe he could jump in at the end.
I don't know. But either way, we're going to watch it.
So here we go.
Everybody ready? Mm hmm. Cool.
What's up, everybody? It's me, your favorite little boy in the whole wide world.
I already made this video.
Man, you got to give him a second to be wrong. You can't just criticize him because of his positive attitude.
No, that's not what I'm criticizing. Oh, yeah. What are you going to have to it's the delivery.
In what way?
It's annoying. OK.
Probably think I'm nuts because if you've clicked on this video, there's a good chance that you love Mission Impossible Fallout.
Like everyone else, everybody loved this movie. And to be honest with you, I feel a little crazy myself.
Mission Impossible Fallout has a ninety seven percent.
Well deserved.
It's like if I was to give it some kind of a number, probably it's just nineteen eighty to ninety.
Well, I mean, I wouldn't get a ninety seven again.
It's like it just means ninety seven percent of people.
Yeah. Yeah.
This is why Rotten Tomatoes is such a terrible metric.
That's the problem, because, you know, I looked at that and I was immediately like ninety seven out of one hundred.
That's the quality of the movie. And I'm like, probably not.
But then it's like, that's not what that means, though. And it's like, all right, of course.
Yeah, because it's not metacritic.
How do you even call that number? How do you even make a judgment on that? Ninety seven percent of people.
Ninety seven percent of people gave it a positive review.
Ninety seven percent thumbs up.
And it's like, what can you draw from that, that they're wrong, that they thought it was at least what is it?
Six out of ten gets you a thumbs up.
Yeah, six out of ten gets you on there.
So, you know, six out of ten is like that. All the reviews are six out of ten.
It could. Yeah. Yeah. Just useless.
Yes. In eighty six.
That's better.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm comfortable with giving it 86.
I say between an eight and a nine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm happy with that. A seven point eight on IMDB.
Before anyone says that's low, that's that's that's high for IMDB, because the top.
I think the top rated film on IMDB is Shawshank Redemption. Is it eight point two? Yes, it is.
Yes, something like that. I don't think there's anything.
Let me check. Yeah. Tough crowd on IMDB, man.
Tough crowd. Oh, no, I was wrong. It's nine point three for Shawshank Redemption.
It's still nine point three, not a ten.
Yeah, that's the thing. I don't know.
That garbage.
Nine point three sounds kind of low for Shawshank.
It does, doesn't it? That's what I was.
I was trying to imply that IMDB's whole metric is a little lower than what people would expect, I guess.
Grace God's Green Earth.
Jeremy Johns gave this movie the number one spot in his best movies of two thousand and eighteen.
Before punching the screen like father punches mama and moving on to his next project.
There's a lot of comedy in this video that's like.
No, comedy is funny.
Like he said, he punched the screen like mama punches Papa. Just like, I mean, Papa was like, OK.
All right. All right.
Is he trying to tell us something weird? OK.
I mean, maybe that'll hit closer to home for some folks.
Another is closer to home.
It's just so weird.
It's a weird segue.
I didn't even know he made a joke.
Oh, there you go.
Poking for the domestic violence classy.
Yeah, rags.
I'm sorry.
Remember, there are things you're not allowed to joke about.
In his best movies of two thousand and eighteen before punching the screen like father punches mama and moving on to his next project.
Now, let me make this clear.
I love the spy movie genre.
It's probably one of my favorites.
In fact, my grandfather started the tradition of taking my dad to see every single James Bond movie in theaters,
a tradition that my dad passed on to me.
So this genre is one that I hold very close to my heart.
I grew up watching James Bond, Austin Powers and, of course, Mission Impossible.
So I'm not making this video to be a contrarian or to clickbait.
I'm making this video be really weird visual for clickbait.
The glove attached to the window.
I'm late.
Because I genuinely believe that Mission Impossible Fallout is objectively a bad movie.
He's on our team for that.
And this is the more.
See, this is what we actually want is to discuss the actual meat of all of these things,
like the actual films and getting into it instead of being stuck at whether or not you can even be objective.
So it's like, well, at least we got through to this bit.
And he's just. Yeah, that opening is just to say that he's not being dishonest, which fine.
You're saying it's objectively a bad movie kind of being dishonest.
Wait, can you see a booby dare?
I can't see a part of one. That's racist.
Because you might disagree with that doesn't mean we have to hate each other.
I do my very best to make my videos as entertaining as I can.
So if you disagree with me, you still might have a nice time with it.
Give him a chance.
And I can't.
It's because you're annoyed that he's picking on this film, aren't you?
Well, when you say like one of the best movies of last year is objectively bad.
Yeah.
And also kind of annoys me because you know that people like Jack are going to use this as covering this guy.
And he's going to be like, see objective people who use objectivity disagree with each other objectively,
which means that objectivity exists.
Did he have a destiny shirt on?
I don't know.
A bad movie.
And just because you might disagree with that doesn't mean we have to hate each other.
I do my very best to make my video.
Is that a destiny?
Apparently someone in chat.
First off, someone in chat said this guy's voice sounds like me.
No, not at all.
First off, I have no idea where you pulled that one.
He sounds a bit like Dunkey.
I think I haven't got a suggestion for what he sounds like.
I don't know.
Videos as entertaining as I can.
So if you disagree with me, you still might have a nice time with the video.
And I've done a great deal of research about this movie.
So you might also just learn something along the way.
Like, for example, what if I were to tell you that before they started writing the scripts for these past couple of Mission Impossible movies,
that they think of the stunts in action first.
Well, you know, we knew how is that a bad thing?
It's yeah, that's fine.
I wouldn't recommend it, but it doesn't mean the movie will be bad.
Well, here's the thing.
I mean, like sometimes a story is based off of or like you have an idea of like something that happened, like, say,
an action set piece that plays out in your head and you're like, that'd be cool.
What if it made a story and implemented that into it?
I mean, that's how that's how stories are made.
You think you have an idea and then that idea blossoms into a story.
Remember I was talking about how I was like I was envisioning a scene where Ghost Rider did have him punish a clash for a specific moral right reason.
And then I was like, I can't just have that. Now I have to build a whole story that leads to that moment.
That's fine.
And there's nothing there's nothing wrong with that.
That's what I think that's what storytelling is.
I think it's safe to say that most ideas start that way, like isn't correct me if I'm wrong, but George R.R. Martin's idea for Game of Thrones.
And again, this is totally off of my memory from ages ago.
I'm not sure if it's true, but it came from he he liked Lord of the Rings, but he asked himself what happened once past the third one.
Was Aragorn a good king and how difficult was it to be a king?
And the idea is Robert is a warrior, became a king and the kingdom stagnated because he was a terrible leader or a terrible king.
And point being, he was like, my idea is a warrior king wins a war, but inherits a country he can't control and it leads to massive back stabbings and political issues.
How do I.
You have an idea like if you're like three, you have an image of a character in your head, you're like, all right, who is this character?
What's his name?
What's he do?
What world does he live in?
Like this is how stories are made.
You have an idea and then you build off of that idea.
I would say that with pretty much all storytelling, you start with ideas that you think are cool.
But whether or not it's good or bad is how much of the legwork you put into earning those cool moments.
You know, it doesn't actually understand how stories are.
I don't know. Maybe maybe he's not.
I don't know. Because the thing is, I have the perspective of I like to come up with ideas.
You know what I mean?
It's because he's he's acting as though they're like they said, let's just do a bunch of stunts and then, oh, wait, we have to have a plot to like last minute.
But that's not that's not the case.
Like, no, you have an idea.
You like think, oh, that would be a cool stunt.
What would I use that in?
Worst case scenario, right?
The director or writer says I've written up all these action scenes.
Just throw them together with something like bad guy does this.
And it's like the worst thing ever.
And it makes a film that has a terrible plot.
I'd be like, they're a terrible plot.
There isn't a result of them thinking of the action first.
That's just a result of them failing to implement it into a story.
Yeah.
It doesn't just because you have an idea and you build off that idea doesn't the story will in turn be good.
But that is generally how stories are made.
You have an idea that starts off very vague and then build off.
And then you work on it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is an argument.
This isn't an argument.
Jay just said, did he even say that was bad?
The implication is that this is supposed to be a shock to the audience.
It's like, oh, God, they did the action first.
And we're trying to argue that that's fine.
Yeah.
I doubt when people create stuff, what they do is they just come up with all the characters and they come up with a setting and then they're like, oh, this just happens to be such and such kind of story.
Because if you're making if you're making a video called Mission Impossible Fallout is a bad movie.
And one of your opening statements is this.
There's nothing positive about this.
There's a there's clearly a negative connotation with this.
Go on.
Oh, just to go.
So George R.
Mine apparently disliked the Tolkien said Aragorn ruled as a good and wise king as Martin said.
What makes a good king?
What makes a wise king?
You didn't think you could just go with that.
I mean, being good and being wise.
Well, the idea is that that's how the story of Lord of the Rings ends, right?
You could you could question everything forever.
But how did how did Aragorn rule?
I imagine he was happy to listen to advisers and made sure blah, blah, blah happened.
But then the idea in Game of Thrones is that the advisers were backstabbers and stuff as well.
It's all very interesting.
I like it.
Let's let's kick on.
Let's see exactly what he said here as well.
So if you disagree with me, you still might have a nice time with the video.
And I've done a great deal of research about this movie.
So you might also just learn something along the way.
Like, for example, what if I were to fucking since has just said spoilers.
Don't even go there.
Don't even go there.
You could have watched all three of them by now.
It's like you've been watching fucking the hour.
I know you've been watching hour long videos about something instead of watching Lord of the Rings.
So you got you got nothing.
But also like the Lord of the Rings is, you know, like 50 years old.
And I think he needs to understand that every hour that you spend watching this stream is 60 minutes.
You could have spent watching Lord of the Rings.
Yeah, like I don't know if you know this instance, but Lord of the Rings happened in the third age.
You know, long ago that was.
Yeah, it's like the 12th age now.
You got like guns and shit.
Yep.
We can fly.
You know, yeah, it's Iron Man.
Right.
The York's turn into Muslims.
Rex basically said something similar about the porgs.
No.
Wait.
What?
That's what someone said.
Wait.
Well, I don't know what I said.
I don't know what he's referring to.
Oh, maybe.
They probably would have said that porgs were made from merchandise.
Yeah, before they were implemented into the story.
But that's sure.
But we also said.
That could still be fine.
Like, yeah, obviously.
They just didn't do it fine.
They just shoved them in.
There was no purpose for them other than that.
While Ewoks.
I threw the porg on the dashboard.
Ewoks served a purpose.
Again, that would be the same situation.
It's like you guys in your movie, we need to have these cuddly bear things
and you'd be like.
And then it's like, it's up to you then to implement them or not implement
them.
Though you can argue with some, it's forced and it's bad if that's the
case.
But we're talking about the perspective of a guy who literally says, I want
to make a movie with these action scenes.
Now I need to make a story that fits them.
That's a different thing.
I don't think there's anything necessarily wrong with that.
Yeah, go for it.
Which again, we'll see what he says.
It's execution.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't want to justify in the movie, the things that I want to
see.
Yes.
Good.
Which is what is the hard part of Ryan.
I think you guys probably agree.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like, how do I have a motorcycle chase?
And how do I earn this?
You know, what?
It's going to be difficult.
You know.
I mean, we have to hate each other.
I do my very best to make my videos as entertaining as I can.
So if you disagree with me, you still might have a nice time with the
movie.
And I've done a great deal of research about this movie, so you might
also just learn something along the way.
Like, for example, what if I were to tell you that before they started
writing the scripts for these past couple of Mission Impossible movies
that they think of the stunts in action first.
Well, you know, we knew we wanted to have a car chase in Paris, a
helicopter chase in New Zealand.
We knew we wanted to have a foot chase in London.
Then after that, they write a story around those action scenes, which
explains why the plot to this movie is just so incredibly.
I understood it.
That's the first criticism then.
Yeah.
Imagine being confused by this plot.
I think this.
But I could follow.
It gets a little bit older.
There's a lot of groups and factions trying to do things and things.
Sure.
But it's really, you could follow what they're doing.
Yeah.
As long as they're paying enough attention.
Yeah.
There's somebody finding it hard to follow.
But to say it is definitively hard to follow is another thing, I guess.
I would say this.
He's saying the only things that I actually...
Oh, the stream died.
That's right.
It'll come back.
It'll come back.
Anyway, the things that I actually had like an issue with, or maybe not an
issue with, the only thing I was hard with was references to the previous
movies, but that's because I didn't watch them.
Right. And there's not a huge amount.
And they do explain the things that you need to know, for example, the wife and
Ilse.
Yeah, but it was to say that Mission Impossible 5 is necessarily a sequel to
Mission Impossible 4.
Well, the thing is, I'd say six is more of a direct sequel to five.
And that might just be because it's the same directive.
And I think it's doing seven as well.
We've got three relevant characters outside of the protagonist that are coming
out.
They're introduced in movies past Mission Impossible 1 and 2.
I do hope that Ilse sticks around, though.
I want her to just be a mainstay of the team.
Cool, yeah.
Yeah, I got the stream on my phone and apparently it is still up.
So if you just refresh, I know it's having trouble.
You just got to refresh it.
I understand the irony of me saying refresh when they can't hear the stream.
Too fresh, I think.
I posted it in the chat.
Yeah, I'm okay with someone finding it hard to follow.
But to say it is hard to follow is another thing.
Now, there's no denying that some of the action scenes in this movie are great,
but they're all hindered by the fact that they never had any clue what was going on
in the story.
It really does feel like this movie took an entire 12-episode season of Homeland
or something and just crammed it all into a two and a half hour long piece.
Don't believe me?
Well, then let's just run through the plot real quick, all right?
Oh, and I will be spoiling this movie.
But in all honesty, you've had the entire movie spoiled for you already if you've
seen the trailer.
But there's your warning.
So Tom Cruise...
What?
I haven't seen the trailer for the Mission Impossible Fallout, so I don't have to
pause it.
Well, the trailer did not show us that Henry Cavill was the leader of the terrorists.
Oh, spoilers.
We already said that.
We already took care of that.
The trailer I can think of that really spoils everything is Robot and Frank.
Like, that trailer literally shows you the entire movie.
There's a lot of those.
It literally shows you the entire movie?
Literally.
Like, it even shows you the ending.
No, no, no, no.
You said literally the entire movie.
That's a long-ass trailer.
Shut the fuck up.
Oh, no.
See, no.
See, Rags, Rags, what was clearly meant was literally second definition,
figuratively.
Oh, yeah.
That reminds me of the second definition of up, which is down.
Well, Wolf, you're becoming the enemy by using it.
Why English so hard to learn?
This is why.
There won't even need to be elevator music.
Wolf hates that that happened to literally.
So now he feels bad.
Yeah.
I want you to, as we progress, I want you to think on what you've done.
Think about it.
Boiling.
This movie.
Am I in time?
I'm out now.
Cut the dots out.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Don't say.
No, this is just, this is your first warning.
First warning.
Okay.
Honestly, it figuratively shows.
If you don't fuck up again in 15 minutes, then you're back to, then it comes off your record.
Okay.
Everyone watch.
Watch Robot and Frank.
It's a really good move.
Don't trailer because the trailer spoils almost the entire film.
There you go.
The entire movie spoiled for you already.
I like that he says the trailer is going to spoil the entire movie and he shows a clip
that's not in the movie.
Like this doesn't happen in the movie.
There's probably in the trailer because it's a cut scene or whatever else.
I just, I just, that's interesting to me.
Seen the trailer, but there's your warning.
So Tom Cruise's mission, should he choose to accept it is simple.
The bad guys who worked for the main villain from the previous movie have formed a new
group called the apostles who have now been hired by a new bad guy named John Lark.
The apostles are trying to obtain three.
That was a reference to John Locke in Lost.
I want to appreciate the fact that he connected that with a little picture.
Okay.
I'm doing it.
Well, I didn't see that show.
So right now I've been hired by a new bad guy named John Lark.
The apostles are trying to obtain three nuclear plutonium balls so that they can kill a bunch
of people because there's never been peace without first a great suffering.
The greater the suffering.
Um, and this is the thing we could probably talk about the motivation of the bad guys.
Uh, I thought it was pretty sound.
The idea is that they've noticed in the, in history, when you kill a whole bunch of
people, it unites, uh, who remains.
And so they want to target large population groups, uh, of people in power too.
They want to go after governments, religions, and institutions.
I think it is.
They want to book a large amount of people.
So then what remains of the world at that point is all the countries saying, you know
what, we need to band together.
And you know, like their, their hope is that the world needs to have a huge event so that
they all, we all come together.
That's the, that's what they think will work.
And John Lark is hiring the apostles to get that done because he believes in it and the
apostles, uh, do as well.
The apostles were from a group in the previous film that were all about bringing down governments.
And their first target was the IMF and specifically Tom Cruise's character.
They wanted to kill him.
And because of all that going wrong, um, Solomon, what's his name?
Solomon.
Solomon Kane.
I think it was.
Um, he has a serious personal issue with Tom Cruise because he's ruined his plans massively
in the previous film.
So they're all your motivations pretty much.
But I think what he's just said is fine so far.
Bring the bread of the piece.
So conveniently enough, Tom Cruise arranged to buy the plutonium from a black market dealer
off camera.
Okay.
What we need on camera.
I don't think we need that on camera.
Yeah.
So the idea is that they find out the apostles and John Lark are trying to get three nuclear
things to facilitate their goal.
And they find this out.
And so they, they try and get ahead of them by buying the plutonium off the Russians before
the apostles do.
Unfortunately, the apostles arrive in this area and nearly kill everybody before they
can complete that.
I don't think that follows.
I don't think we needed.
Yeah.
I mean, imagine you're making a film about a family going to a restaurant and the film
opens with them arriving at the restaurant.
And the guy at the front says, oh, reservation for McDonald.
And Mr. McDonald says, oh, that's us.
Oh, Solomon Lane.
He, you know, would he criticize?
Oh, but we didn't see him make the reservation.
Well, they're here.
And there's a meeting going on and recognize one another.
I would assume that, you know, they had, you know, chatted.
Well, this is funny because it's kind of harkens back to our problem with the Dark
Night Rises.
Yeah, I was about to say.
And someone might be like, the difference there is the with the information we have,
he cannot make it to Gotham.
That's why we need to see it.
While here, the idea that they set up a meet with Russians while pretending to be black
market dealers.
I'm like, yeah.
Yeah.
If the McDonald's were snowed in their house and their car would not start, if they arrived
at the restaurant by car, we would have questions.
How did you get there?
How did you get out the front door?
How did you get the car to start?
Otherwise, it would normally be implied that they just drove.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't have a problem with that being off screen.
That's all.
Yeah, I don't have a problem with that.
Peace without first a great suffering.
The greater the suffering, the greater the peace.
So conveniently enough, Tom Cruise arranged to buy the plutonium from a black market
dealer off camera.
But the apostles intercept killed the black market dealer and grabbed the plutonium for
themselves off camera.
Why is he saying off camera?
They got to it.
We didn't need to see them collect it.
Yeah.
The fact that, yeah, because Tom Cruise or one of them was like, where's the plutonium?
And they go back to where it was left in a previous scene and it's gone.
And they're like, well, it could have sprouted legs and walked away.
I probably assume since they said, what can the apostles do for you, Mr. Hunt on the little
sounded like Idris Alba.
The apostle with we're told as the audience that the apostles are attacking them and then
the plutonium is taken from them.
I think we're supposed to assume that the apostles got plutonium.
But it also it achieves a secondary thing, which is, oh, these guys are serious business
because they got it without the good guys even knowing.
They like this opening scene because he saves his team members and it costs him massively.
Well, it ties into the theme of the movie, doesn't it?
Yeah.
This whole off camera thing he keeps doing.
It's just this whole video reeks of being exactly what Patrick Willems thinks that we
are.
I was going to bring that in a bit later because I do think that's kind of going on here.
But we'll we'll see how it goes.
I can't remember if he if he stumbles significantly.
He's already stumbled significantly and he's not even three minutes in.
Tom Cruise and the rest of the boys don't even bother trying to figure out where the
bad guys went.
Despite the fact that the apostles only had a 40 second head.
Do you know how much ground you could cover in 40 seconds?
Where are they going?
Like really?
Just run in a direction.
If we stop this stream, if we stop the stream and just waited 40 seconds, you can cover
a lot of ground in 40 seconds.
Especially when the whole thing is to steal and get away.
So they probably got something for a bit.
I just love the idea is like, which direction should they go?
Yeah, exactly.
I was about to say, like, how do you know which way to go?
If there was a guy running, like they see a guy running in the distance, like, go, go.
But there's nothing.
Doesn't he not remember how in this movie they had to put a tracker in Henry Cavill
so that they could find him?
Yeah, even though he only had a 30 second head start walking.
And he was walking.
I know before you walk in 30 seconds.
Yeah, you can get quite far.
I don't know.
Like, that's a strange criticism, but fine.
Moving on.
Did he miss the part of the movie where Tom Cruise turned into Usain Bolt for a while?
He's got, he's got, he's got criticisms of that as well.
Oh yeah, that's his criticism that Tom Cruise is too old to be running that fast,
even though he's literally running that fast.
Let's say, let me actually Google it.
How fast can you run 100 meters?
I think that depends.
So the fast.
So how fast, let's do average.
How fast can the average man 45 kilometers per hour, apparently.
So reduce that by 60, you get per minute and then reduce that by a third
and you get exactly how far they could have gone.
Average jogging pace for an adult man is about 100 meters in 27 seconds.
That's just average average jogging pace for an average person.
Oh, and it's 34 seconds for a woman.
So get fucked.
So what if they had a car?
Then what?
Oh, well, yeah, now.
Or a boat or anything like this.
Anything else.
And they're not running in a straight line.
Once they turn the corner of a building, who knows where they go.
That's just my point.
If you can't see them, where the hell do you run?
Also, it's nighttime.
And they could kill you.
Yeah, exactly.
Because it can split up.
If you split up, then that increases your chances like tenfold.
I don't mean to just badger on this.
It's just that that's how we would assess this if we were doing this.
Yeah, we're just being thorough.
Someone stabbers ass to rags so women deserve to be paid less.
We should pay women based on how fast they can run 100 meters
compared to the fastest man in the office.
Yes.
Well, look, I'm just saying, I think we should pay women what they're worth,
which is nothing.
Damn.
He's basing that on the running speed.
I know.
The apostles only had a 40 second head start on them.
I like that he says it was literally 40 seconds.
I checked as if that's not enough time.
It's like if he'd said four seconds, I'd be like, yeah, that is stupid.
Like enough 40.
That's as we just said, that's quite a bit.
A billion people's lives are at stake here,
but we just shrug our shoulders and move on.
I'm sure they didn't just shrug their shoulders.
I think they were distraught, but yes.
They were just like, eh, all right.
See you at work on Monday.
Two weeks later, 15 minutes into the movie,
and this is where things start to get a little messy.
Here we learn that the nukes have been detonated,
blown up like a firework that was born on the 4th of July.
And Tom Cruise is sad about it,
but this guy in the hospital bed is one of John Lark's top boys.
He knows all there is to know about the plutonium warheads,
which by the way, have not actually even been detonated.
The whole news clip was just a ruse to get this guy to give them his phone,
which conveniently holds all of the information.
Conveniently, why would it be convenient?
They got the guy who had this information.
He's the top scientist.
He's the one who made the bombs.
How convenient.
I broke into this bank and conveniently in the vault,
there was all this money.
Explain that film.
Checkmate atheist.
Checkmate atheist, now I'm rich.
Give them his phone,
which conveniently holds all of the information about those warheads.
It doesn't even.
He's a warhead scientist man.
It doesn't even.
If you remember, they take ages to figure out even how to disarm the bombs.
If it had everything they needed,
that would still be fair, but it doesn't.
Yeah, it's just the names of people, the contacts.
It only gets them John Lark and where he's meeting someone.
That's all it gets them.
In fact, it only gets them a server, if I remember correctly.
Yes, they get a server in Iceland.
And then they use that to figure out the arms, like the trade between.
Here you go.
I'm pulling up the script because I'm a nerd.
It says, the phone you unlocked led us to a server in Iceland,
but we managed to decrypt and communicate between John Lark and this woman,
Midsapalists, activists and philanthropists.
Yeah.
So the phone got them a server.
The server got them a communicate between John Lark and a woman.
That's all they got.
Not much.
It basically set up the first scene when they go to Paris to get the,
to meet the widow.
Which conveniently holds all of the information about those warheads.
After that, we just get another huge exposition dump.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Look, I get the idea of an exposition dump and how you can criticize it.
But what else would happen here?
We're getting the results.
Briefing.
Yeah.
We're getting the results of the break-in for the phone.
How would this be?
Yes.
Well, the thing is, is that even though we recognize it, them giving us
expedition, like it's, it's works in context because of what it is.
This is exactly how it would go in real life.
You'd be like, this is your mission.
This is what you'll be.
This is the information you need to know to carry out this mission.
Here are the people involved.
Here's where they are.
Honestly, I appreciate being, you know, aware of that as an audience member.
Capitalist activist and philanthropist whose charity workers are.
We're learning alongside the characters.
We're going to be following.
We're meeting tonight to negotiate delivery of an unspecified package.
Also, they're still running the credits.
File.
They'll make contact in a private lounge at the Grand Palais in Paris.
Notice how there's no more exposition dumps throughout the entire movie.
And this is the prologue still.
I like that audio balancing there, though.
The plane is actually quite loud.
It's a nice touch.
Yeah.
And we can still hear them clearly.
For fundraising event, the details are in the file.
Tom Cruise now needs to intercept John Lark.
Knock him out with a heroin needle that he found in my mom's closet.
Scan John Lark's face.
Create it in the machine and put it on his own face so that he can go.
No, because his mother is a heroine.
She's brave and strong.
She saves the day.
Yeah.
Idiot.
And put it on his own face so that he can go.
Also, she's addicted to heroin.
I'm waiting for because he's summing up the plot and I'm waiting for him to say,
this is bad because Lark's face created in the machine and put it on his own
face so that he can go and meet the white widow as John Lark.
Right.
But that can't happen quite yet since the black woman here doesn't like the IMF.
But we got to squeeze Henry Cavill into the plot.
Squeeze the babies.
Okay.
Sorry.
I got it.
I'm getting angry.
He's there.
He's there as they say in the film to keep an eye on Tom Cruise and potentially
kill him if he doesn't follow the mission details like he didn't in the prologue.
He was supposed to let his team die and get the plutonium, but he didn't.
And now Henry Cavill is there to fucking basically police him.
That's what they actually say.
And it makes more sense that he would agree to the mission because he's actually
John Lark.
Does he not understand that the whole plot relies on Henry Cavill's
involvement because he's he is the plot essentially.
Yeah.
He's the one who's making all of this happen, technically speaking.
How can you shoehorn in the plot?
That's like saying, yeah, Darth Vader.
They just shoehorn them in because it's really about the emperor.
He's the reason the guy at the top.
Yeah.
The film makes it clear why he's there from both the good guys side of it
and the bad guy side of it.
Yeah, he's definitely not shoehorned in.
This dude is literally retarded.
The woman here doesn't like the IMF, but we got to squeeze Henry Cavill
into the plot because he's squeezing the film inside Tom Cruise and
squeezing the film.
Let's squeeze the bad guy.
How do you say that?
How do you watch this drama into this dumb drama?
Hey man, you didn't like it.
Okay.
Oh my God.
Objectively, he didn't like it.
Someone put heroin milk in there.
Why is there a syringe?
Who made the emojis for YouTube?
Heroin.
We can't have guns, but here's a fucking hero in here.
Someone put a plain black woman in here.
Plain black woman.
Okay.
It's been quite yet since the black woman here doesn't like the IMF,
but we got to squeeze Henry Cavill into the plot because he's forced to tag
alongside Tom Cruise and keep him in check, which is ultimately fine
because truth be told, I actually really like Henry Cavill.
No, it's not fine because you like Henry Cavill.
It's not fine because he said it was, he said shoe or den, but he's the villain.
He said squeezed in, but...
But he also said it's fine because he likes Henry Cavill.
He likes Henry Cavill, but it's like, that's not,
that's not why it's fine that he's there for the plot because you like him.
For the record, I really liked him in this film.
I thought he was awesome.
I liked that Justice League failed for this.
As soon as I saw this movie and saw he had the mustache, I was like,
oh, this is the movie that killed Justice League.
Keep him in check, which is ultimately fine because truth be told,
I actually really like Henry Cavill in this role.
He does a very good job.
After that, they fly over Paris and jump out of the airplane.
They soar through the vanilla sky.
Then they land at the club, go into the bathroom,
and have a fight with this Asian guy who is John Lark.
He punches people in the...
I want to make a mention because I noticed this on my latest watch through with Wolf and Rags.
When they're at the airport, what's the name of...
He calls it Black Lady. I've forgotten her actual name.
Sloane.
Oh, she has a first name that begins with A, I think, because I remember...
Yeah, I don't remember it.
Okay, Sloane.
She says that you prefer a syringe or something like that in the camera pans to...
I prefer a hammer.
Tom Cruise, and then she says I prefer a hammer.
And then you see in this scene...
Like a scalpel or something?
Yeah, I think that's it.
Tom Cruise tries to stab the guy with the needle, fails,
and then it just cuts to fucking super bad,
slabbing his face with the laptop.
It's awesome. It's just the syringe versus the hammer. I like it.
It's great.
A nice bit of continuity, that's all.
A scalpel and hammer.
Oh, there you go.
With this Asian guy, who is John Lark, he punches people in the throat,
and he winds up winning the fight, and he's about to shoot Tom Cruise in the face.
But if little Tommy were to get his head blown off 30 minutes in, we'd have no movie.
So the woman from the previous Mission Impossible shoots John Lark in the head.
Okay.
How did she know to come into the men's bathroom?
Because she was looking for him.
She was literally there to look for that person.
God damn it.
She is tasked from the British intelligence to defend John Lark.
That is the twist.
Tom Cruise literally says, what are you doing here?
And she explains it to him, point blank.
She explains it later. She doesn't explain it in this scene.
Yeah, but that doesn't matter, because she does explain it later.
He watched this whole movie.
Of course, of course.
Well, that's the point. She's not revealing it here, that the actual...
She's supposed to be killing Solomon Lane.
You can only do that if the Solomon Lane is released by John Lark's deal.
So she's protecting John Lark, and then she finds John Lark is about to kill the guy
that she really fucking likes from the previous movie, and so she shoots him.
It's really good, because on a second watch through, you see a reaction when she's killed him.
She's not happy.
She's like, I had to do that.
And then she doesn't explain any of it to Tom Cruise yet, because she can't,
because it's fucking...
And if anyone wants a reason for it, it's because she says that the British don't trust her,
because they think that she might have been turned into an apostle,
and so this will prove her innocence if she can complete this mission,
when I would assume it's more to do with the fact that they just want a reason to kill Solomon Lane,
because he has lots of information about British intelligence that nobody else should get,
as far as the British are concerned.
So they can have her do that, and if she's captured, caught, or dead, or whatever,
they can literally just say, yeah, we never knew anything about her,
as far as we know she's a fucking turn cloak sort of thing.
And it's the same deal as what Ethan gets at the beginning of all these films.
Is that what you say in Britain? You say turn cloak?
Turn cloak.
Because we say turn coat.
Oh, maybe it is turn coat. I might have just...
It is turn coat. Oh, I thought it was just...
You got it wrong.
Never mind. Never mind, everyone. It's not a cultural exchange.
It's just fucked up. It's fine.
The chat's got hammer milk versus scalpel milk.
Hammer milk versus scalpel milk.
Hammer milk is greater than scalpel milk.
Turn cloak is from Game of Thrones? Is that true?
Well, they didn't have...
We can't thank them, but I wouldn't doubt it.
Let me see if turn cloak...
Maybe Game of Thrones knowledge is just invading your mind.
Yeah, all the results for turn cloak.
Been into turn coat.
No, turn cloak's D&D fifth edition dark fantasy actually playing.
Turn cloak's is... He's creating Dungeons & Dragons podcasts on Patreon.
Right, but I think what's been established is that the way that you said it was...
Yeah, I wasn't referencing any of the things people are bringing up.
Oh, how the mighty have fallen.
It's my first strike. Me and Wolf are on one strike each now.
No, no, no, it's been 15 minutes. He's off probation.
Oh, good. Thank God.
Oh, right. Because they said...
But I'm starting the clock for you, young man.
What we should do, though, is because he's actually skipped over it, right?
So just so everyone's following, the structure here is that these two guys are supposed to find John Locke,
take his face and go do the meeting themselves.
But what happens is they fucking screw up his face because she shot it,
and so he's going to pretend to be him.
And we find out that she was here because she's following John Locke this whole time.
Of course, when she sees those guys go into the fucking bathroom,
she probably decided to go in after them.
Like, there's no...
Yeah, she's like, hmm.
And they wouldn't show us that because it's a surprise.
And also, you know, if she was sticking around and he went into the toilet and didn't come out for like 20 minutes...
Yeah, that must be stuck in sideways.
Someone in the chat said, uh, turtled cloak.
Turtled cloak!
That's beautiful.
So yeah, let's just see how this goes then.
We have no movie.
So the woman from the previous Mission Impossible shoots John Locke in the head.
An established character, yeah.
How did she know to come into the men's bathroom is beyond me?
Yeah.
What is it?
What aren't you telling me?
You don't understand what you're involved in.
I don't understand what I'm involved in.
I don't understand what I'm involved in.
But there's no time to explain why she can't explain.
And since John Lark's face has been destroyed, Tom Cruise is now going to pretend to be John Lark without the disguise and meet the White Widow himself.
Which could prove to be some seriously risky business.
Because, in case you didn't know...
The movie addresses this.
Yeah, I was gonna say.
I don't know if he's criticizing that yet.
But in case he is, Tom Cruise says it's a gamble, whether or not she's seen John Lark.
And I think it's a reasonable gamble.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure Henry Cavill even like...
Like that's a really stupid idea.
But the fact...
It's more than reasonable to assume because nobody knows what John Lark looks like.
They say that in the beginning.
Secret agent.
So it's a fair gamble.
And it's the only option they have left.
In case he's criticizing it.
I think he kind of did there, but...
Risky business.
Because, in case you didn't know, there are paid assassins that are at the club who also want to kill John Lark.
People have been sent here to kill Lark.
Contractors.
Paid assassins.
Out of nowhere.
Out of nowhere.
She was telling...
No, she was telling him that to warn him that there's other people...
Yeah, because he's playing the role of John Lark.
So if he's doing that, then he has to know that there's other people there to kill him.
By the way, the person you're going to roleplay as, people want to kill him?
So that's not out of nowhere.
And why would she know this information?
Well, as she addresses to him in the conversation, she says there's people who are going to kill John Lark.
He looks at her and she goes, yeah, other than me.
The point is that John Lark, right now, as we know from the beginning of the film,
governments are aware that he's trying to collect plutonium to blow it up in places so governments will hire assassins to kill him.
She knows this because she works for a government that have just assigned her to protect him in order to get Solomon Lane.
That follows, does it not?
This is what I mean, right?
This film is got really good praise.
And then he's like ripping it to shreds.
And I'm like, you've made me argue that you are underrating this film that is heavily praised.
It feels weird.
Paid assassins.
Yeah, they sort of just drop that line in there out of nowhere just to set up another action scene.
Anyhow, Tom Cruise convinces the White Widow that he is John Lark because my man Tommy is good with the ladies.
He knows all the right moves.
Then they fight some bad guys.
Stop with all the reference.
I'm pretty sure that's like throughout the whole movie video.
Sorry.
So after that, they go somewhere.
And here's where the plot thickens.
The White Widow has the plutonium.
OK, and she will not give Tom Cruise the plutonium unless he doesn't have the plutonium.
She's a broker for the people who do have it, which are the apostles and the apostles are not going to give John Lark the plutonium until the apostles get what they want, which is their leader and their leader.
She literally tells him all of this.
And Solomon Lane is not going to let him have the plutonium until he successfully frames Tom Cruise as John Lark, which is another plot that is going on.
And this is what I mean.
I get it that it is somewhat difficult to follow if you're not paying close attention.
Oh, my God.
There's a total of 14 Tom Cruise references in this.
Be honest, I would have I would have estimated more now, but I guess there is that many who's the plutonium unless he helps them capture the main villain from the previous movie named Solomon Lane.
Now, the White Widow's brother has a plan to capture Solomon, but it involves killing multiple players directly into the theme of the movie, which it actually has.
I love I love this scene. I love it.
Yeah, it's a great scene.
Which would mean that Tom Cruise would have to kill a few good men himself.
And he doesn't like that idea.
After that, the plot is just going to gloss right past that.
Why is he completely moving past that?
He's not going to talk about the good.
I don't think.
But I don't even know if he thinks that's good.
I don't I don't know.
He just he just I don't know.
We're waiting for him to make statements that are beyond law assessment because right now he's just summing up the movie while not saying anything but also inferring that it's bad for things that make sense.
I'm not going to say funny enough, I did a lot of that with my predator review.
But when I said something like the adult man throws an empty bottle of beer at the child's head for knocking on his door and then I laughed at that.
My expectation is you can figure out why that's dumb.
But here I'm not I'm not following.
I don't know why this is dumb.
If that's his implication, I don't know.
Tom Cruise would have to kill a few good men himself.
And he doesn't like that idea.
After that, the plot thickens yet again, because here we learn that Henry Cavill is a double agent.
And in fairness, some people can miss this.
This is the reveal that he's evil because we saw the phone was smashed and he's giving her a different one.
Yeah.
Oh, OK. So he's a double agent.
So it's a nice clue.
Yeah. And some people might not actually get it yet.
They'll still be like, oh, OK.
And yeah, he's like, he's up to something.
And what's really cool about this scene is that he's describing why Tom Cruise would be evil and the entire time he's doing it, he's describing why he is evil.
Why he is. It's great subtext.
It's tough. And again, I just like there's good things in this movie that he's kind of just sort of blooping over.
Here we learn that Henry Cavill is a double agent since, you know, every spy movie needs a double agent.
So his plan is to try and convince the head of the CIA that Tom Cruise is, in fact, the double agent.
You're suggesting.
And I like that she says you're reaching Walker before this guy can say that's ridiculous.
It's like too bad the film acknowledges that he's reaching.
Hunt is John Clark. You're reaching Walker.
There she is. Correct. He's reaching.
All right. He's a big old Jack Reacher.
If you like that.
I like a lot of the movies he's been showing a few good men is awesome.
You keep it up, guys. At this point, I love that he says that as if we're lost.
Now if I was lost.
He made a lost reference to. That's true.
He's reaching. All right. He's a big old Reacher, a Jack Reacher, if you will.
You keep it up, guys. At this point, I was lost.
But now it's game time. Tom Cruise and the White Widow team are all set up to capture Solomon Lane.
Tom Cruise didn't like their initial plan. So off camera, he came up with his own plan.
Off camera.
He came up with his camera.
Listen, this is like, well, well, he there should have been a scene in the movie where he was like in his room and he was staring at the ceiling, maybe listening to Africa.
Yeah.
So he was explaining like out loud, like talking to himself what he would do the next day.
And the next thing he does all this.
I mean, how is that considerably worse than what they do?
How is that not exposition?
I mean, I mean, that whole that whole part where, you know, it played out where he would have to kill that cop that really told you what he thought about it already.
Yeah. Not to mention that it's a part of the scene that we don't know what he's going to do here.
So it's all very action packed as we're like, oh, shit, Solomon Lane's about to drown. Wait, someone saved him with a fucking oxygen tank.
How is that possible? Wait, Tom Cruise knifed a thing in the center of a plaza and jumped onto a book.
Oh, Simon Pegg and Ving Rhames.
They are. This was all planned. Oh, that's cool. That's what that's what's intended.
We're supposed to go. Oh, it all makes sense now because we have the same perspective as mostly everybody in this scene outside of Tom Cruise.
Someone in the chat said that he outright fabricated.
At the 11 minute mark of the video.
Yeah. Right. Fabricate what? Sorry.
A plot hole at the 11 minute mark of the video. Oh, that'll be exciting.
Get to it next hour.
This is why, by the way, this is why we like if anyone in chat doesn't know what we like, if we're going to cover a video on a movie, we're like, we've got to rewatch the movie.
So the references are fresh. And I just feel like it just kills videos like this.
Would you do that? And man, was it just a really fun movie to rewatch? Oh, yes. It was my first time watching it.
He came up with his own plan that didn't involve killing innocent cops. That's fine. That's within his character to do so. You know, whatever.
Simon Peig and Ving Rames are able to successfully extract no positive comments about how great this scene is.
And then we're treated to what I like to call a string scene. What you're looking at here is a one minute and 10 second long scene with no dialogue or character development.
Nothing. This only exists to string the previous action scene with the upcoming action.
I'm sorry. Wait.
What? So yeah, action scenes are typically, you know, connected by other things. Does he not know that plots have to have like my argument would be pacing to each other.
The idea that we just had an action scene is just calm down. Now we're like, OK, how are we recovering from this? We see them.
We're in the clear now, right? No, the boat parks. They take them out. We're going up through a building that's obviously secret.
Everyone's about to get into the car. And we're we're lulled into a sense of procedure and then the door opens and there's a police officer there.
It's like, oh, fuck. And it's I don't know, like I don't know if I need to make my argument further than that, but the point of it is to lull you into a sense that everything is going to be fine now.
Action is over. It's a prize to me. You know, I loved it. And thus he's so awesome. The idea of a random cop sees them.
It's like, do they shoot it? And then it ties in with the other things that he did. Do I? How much do you value X amount of lives over singular lives?
And it's part of what Alec Baldwin says to him, which again, we'll probably get to talk about that because I love it.
At least twice now it's come it's come up before. So yeah, it fits with the movie so well. And it's a good scene.
I just let's listen to the criticism exactly, because all he said is that it strings two action scenes together.
It's like, yes, well, it shows us how characters get from A to B. Not that we desperately needed to see this.
He complained about it before when we didn't see things. Yeah. And now we see it on camera.
But again, like I said, my I assume the purpose of all of this is to make us think that the action was done.
And then we're sidelined completely by a completely expected event. This is a normal police officer on a beat.
So it's just like, oh, shit, one minute and 10 seconds.
Cool, because they're evading an entire two factions. Right.
It's enormous fact. And it's like, oh, shit, this is all going on.
They're called by a random police, like potential traffic officer. That's that's what's so interesting about it.
Second long scene with no dialogue or character development. Nothing. This also not every scene has to have dialogue or character development.
There are things called establishing shots. What character development do we need here?
I mean, so I'm sorry. Do you want more character development?
Oh, honestly, there is character development. Did you see these three characters? They're so in sync that they pull this off.
Yeah, I'd say that's a fair point. I remember when my grandfather would drive his boat.
The sewers of Paris. They don't need to say anything here. You know, he's right.
Because he drops into the thing. Nobody says anything.
According to plan, you're right. He nailed it.
Exists to string the previous action scene with the upcoming action scene.
It's incredibly jarring. No, it isn't. How is it jarring?
I would argue that's jarring. They're on a boat now.
But they were they were already in the boat before because they had to pick up Lane.
And you know what would be less jarring, though, it would be less jarring if they just appeared.
They're hard cut to opening the door.
And then it cut to the scene where it also starts shooting at them.
Yeah, I'm curious what you would have preferred if we literally just cut to them opening the garage door.
Then all of a sudden they're fighting on helicopters.
The movie's already terrible pacing.
How is it terrible? Yeah, you haven't explained.
You haven't. He hasn't set that up at all.
When does he complain about pacing up to this point?
I thought this was a fine movie to watch. I never I never felt bored. I never felt this interested.
They were always either establishing something or telling us what is going on or they're having an action scene or they're carrying out a plan.
Like stuff you're going to criticize the pacing. Tell me why.
The pacing is complicated to criticize, but I'm totally open to hearing arguments for it.
But he just declared. Yeah.
Show's like give us an example of this happened and this happened.
And I don't feel like it was good because the third time I was never bored.
Yeah, I've seen this movie more than three times and I still wasn't bored to string the previous action scene with the upcoming action scene.
It's incredibly jarring and it completely ruins the movie's already terrible pacing.
So don't you dare try to tell me that I'm nitpicking here.
We're not telling you that you're wrong. Yeah, nitpicking is what it's valid.
You're correct. Yeah, you're just wrong because I'm not.
OK, focus on after that.
Tom sees a girl cop who then gets shot by a white widow. A girl cop.
I like that. I like that.
If it was a guy, you would have said cop.
It's a girl girl cop. What was even remotely necessary about saying it was a girl.
It's just a cop. She's not even a character.
Why is that real?
Girl cop. Get over it. Focus up after that time.
Actually, you know, I need to start taking notes again.
I'm going to just put kind of put he was a girl cop.
Wait a second. If they're in Paris, is the French word for police police police?
I don't know. It's just police. P-O-L-I-C-E.
Is there a French version of that?
All right, Google Translate. Work for me here.
Police National. Yeah, apparently police.
Oh, it is police. Yeah. P-O-L-I-C-E.
It just went to Russian for me.
At least, you know, just as a police. Yeah.
What did he do?
Delishia.
Girl cop's lives met.
French police is just police. Sorry.
Get to look at the girl cop.
What is girl cop in French here?
Girl cop in French is flique de fille.
That's probably sexist.
Yeah, flique de fille in here because I'm not.
OK, focus up. After that, Tom sees a girl cop who then gets shot by
the White Widow's goons as collateral. Tom Cruise kills all four of them
and saves her. And it's a great moment.
After that, Tom and his pals are trying to drive Solomon to safety.
Like, I don't know, maybe I'm beating a dead horse here,
but he literally killed four guys to save one girl.
That's like, oh, reaffirming. Yeah, that says a lot about him.
Reaffirming how he feels about lives and what's all in the balance of stuff.
Because, you know, he's killed loads of people throughout this whole series,
and the film is making him question the actual logic and stuff behind it,
which is great. And saves her. After that, Tom and his pals are trying.
Oh, and another thing, maybe he's missing it on purpose.
But do you remember Superman goes to get his pistol out?
Yes, he does. The film is telling us that he's absolutely willing to kill her.
Yeah. It's again, it's like these things are good.
These things are really good. And saves her.
After that, Tom and his pals are trying to drive Solomon to safety
Yes, they were slowly attacked by her.
Wait, did he say that?
No, he said they were suddenly attacked by someone.
Yeah, that's the thing that happened suddenly.
They slowly attacked me with his gun.
Oh, right. I got to get with the times.
Let's not be a dead horse. It's feed a fed horse.
Feed a fed horse.
I don't know. It's funny to take a like a metal bat to a horse carcass.
Saves her.
After that, Tom and his pals are trying.
Someone said, why would you feed a fed horse?
That's the point. That's it's.
That's the idea.
That kills the horse.
Yeah, it kills it. So then you can feed it.
Then you can beat the dead horse.
And you can beat the dead horse.
Peter, I'm one step ahead of us this whole time.
Who kills all four of them and saves her.
After that, Tom and his pals are trying to drive Solomon to safety.
When they are suddenly attacked by Ilsa, the woman from the men's bathroom.
She's trying to shoot Solomon, but can't because she gets ran over.
I'm surprised you didn't take the easy criticism there, which is she missed.
She hit him in the ear instead of the head, which you could be like, that was convenient.
Yeah, a shot, though. Yeah.
All I would say is that's believable with the glare on the windshield.
That's my point is that I can believe it. I can believe it.
I could have believed any shot there. She could have killed him.
She could have missed him. She could have hit his ear.
Yeah, I could have believed that.
Sure.
He's going to get to the sun. His head would match the back of the seat
because he's got the mask on.
Solomon, but can't because she gets ran over.
Windshield would angle the bullet after it goes through the window
that won't be traveling in a straight line anymore.
It'll ricochet and bounce into a different direction.
She's a woman.
All sorts of reasons why she missed.
Solomon, but can't because she gets ran over like Anton Yelchin.
She can handle it, though.
You guys know who that is?
Who, Steel Magnolias?
Anton Yelchin. He's the guy from...
Oh, yeah. He was in Gattaca, wasn't he?
He's in Star Trek, is the main one I know.
He was in Star Trek Beyond. Wasn't he the guy who passed away?
Yeah, well, I never knew how he died.
It's just that it was a sensitive thing because a lot of people really liked him.
He just, I guess he was run over.
Well, he was really young.
Yeah, that's the point is a lot of people really liked him.
I didn't know it was dead. That's depressing.
A bit of a dark joke there.
Solomon, but can't because she gets ran over like Anton Yelchin.
She can handle it, though. She's a tough chick.
I'm not going to say he can't make a dark joke, but I mean, it doesn't work for me.
Geez, yeah.
But she wasn't ran over.
Apparently he got crushed by his own car.
Even I wouldn't make a joke.
Yeah.
And I'm like the one that people call the asshole.
Well, okay.
Jesus.
Textbook, Steel Magnolia.
After that, Solomon gets taken to a safe place where Ving Rhames removes a tracker.
And you're just going to pass over the speech he gives Tom Cruise about why he does anything he does
and how it sort of represents all of the Mission Impossible movies.
That's just an exposition dump.
See, I just like that he'll he'll point out where he thinks character is lacking.
It's like you're going to point out where character is strong.
I'm wondering if it's like I was bored during the scene.
So it's an exposition dump.
Oh, Jay said it's not that the joke is dark.
It's how casually is about it.
I'm not sure how I would quote unquote fix the joke.
I probably just said it.
Someone pointed out Anton Yelchin could have been one of the most loved actors of his time,
but he died in a tragic accident.
It's actually not funny.
That's depressing.
Well, it's not funny because it's it's like family guy humor.
Yeah, it's not.
It's not really funny.
Where's the joke?
They were run over like this person who happened to him.
Yeah.
Funny though.
Yeah.
Something horrible happened to this guy.
It's like I went to a few.
My grandfather died like a Jew in the Holocaust.
Yeah.
Just thuds.
Yeah.
It's just like.
Yeah.
I guess.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Jews died.
He was in green room.
That.
I don't think so.
He's just saying he was dead years before green room.
Oh.
He died in 2000.
Like I think he died before Star Trek Beyond came out.
So the film was dedicated to him.
Oh, so what is that?
Like a couple of years.
I genuinely didn't know he was dead in 2016.
I think it was when it came out.
I'm good with movie dates for whatever.
So what does that have to do with green room?
He's just saying he recommends green room.
I guess.
Maybe the joke is that there's has nothing to do with green room.
Maybe it's not a joke.
Maybe just forgot to put us full stop after Yelchin.
So, hey, speaking of the Renaissance Macaroni.
Yelchin was in green room.
It was his life.
He is in green room.
Really?
Green room.
Maybe if I can spell it right.
Anton Yelchin.
Yeah.
Comes up real quick.
Oh, oh, this is a different green room.
Oh, we're ready.
It's we're thinking of green book.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Everybody.
We were taught it.
That was generally like I remember Vigo more.
Meet me and wolf both retarded.
Okay.
So that's our strike two, isn't it?
The strike two for both.
The strike three mean that we have to end this.
Wait.
Yeah.
It was like when we kept calling a hill.
I was like, oh, now that offends me because I love that show now.
I showed you it.
I deserve points for that.
Hey, we figured it out by episode 10.
Yeah, we call there.
We may have had 10 strikes by that, but still.
That was in Solomon's neck about 45 minutes from this point.
Yeah.
That's going to come back.
That while removing the tracker, being rams also put a new tracker in
Solomon's neck, but it doesn't matter.
Smash cut to the neck.
Why the fuck did you mention that?
If it doesn't matter.
Yeah.
Why?
Why is that a problem?
I don't.
That's just going to watch that again and ask what the point of that is
where being rams removes a tracker that was in Solomon's neck about 45
minutes from this point in the movie.
We are shown that while removing the tracker, being rams also put a new
tracker in Solomon's neck, but it doesn't matter.
Smash cut to the next scene.
Tom Cruise is reporting back to the white widow about the minority he
captured.
In espionage terms, they call that a minority report.
So forced.
So forced.
He tells the white widow that he didn't trust her people.
So he brought in his own people to capture Solomon.
But the white widow knows about Ilsa.
So she thinks that Ilsa killed the four men that Tom Cruise killed.
So she tells Tom that he needs to bring Ilsa to her if he wants the
other two plutonium cores.
Then after that, she kills him despite the movie.
This is the problem.
Was there any criticism here?
He was just saying what happened.
Explaining how good the film is.
All right.
Well, inadvertently explaining how good the film is.
Yeah.
I guess.
Whoops.
All right.
That Tom Cruise is nearly twice her age.
He's old enough to be.
She's.
They're acting.
They're acting.
First off, Tom Cruise looks fucking amazing.
56.
He really does.
They're acting in a movie.
And again, she's 30.
What's the problem here?
He's acting like she's a 12 year old woman.
So what does this matter?
What's the problem?
Why is he being so ageist?
Be her dad.
But if Tom Cruise is anything like my dad, he's probably a really good kisser.
Moving along, Ilsa was watching this entire meeting take place.
She follows Tom Cruise along for a little while in another string scene.
And they finally.
Another string.
I'm getting what.
So it's not a string scene.
It's like critical plot stuff.
I don't.
Well, he's talking about up until she talks to him.
It's like I'm assuming when he says string scene, he means filler.
I assume so.
He's saying that it can be cut.
Which is worth.
It couldn't be.
Yeah.
Do you remember the cinematography in that bit?
It's gorgeous.
Yeah.
It's really good.
And the point of it as well is that Tom Cruise realizes she's following him.
It shows that Tom Cruise is competent.
But he still wants to talk to her.
And so they're meeting his friends that apparently are now diametrically opposed and they need
to talk.
That's why it's like a bit of tension.
I don't know.
Someone said, someone said, come on, guys, 30 year old women don't go for rich, adventurous,
dangerous, exciting.
And I like that, by the way, the idea that he's watching Lord of the Rings and you know,
like when it shows, you know, it's like panning over a landscape where they're all moving.
It's like, this is a string scene.
They're just trying to get to the next action sequence.
It's a string scene when they're riding, you know, when they're riding into battle.
Just be at the battle already.
Yeah, just get to the battle.
But remember, they started the battle off camera.
So that's bad.
So don't do that.
I mean, what is this?
What is this thing?
All right.
This is a string scene.
They're simply connecting action sequences.
That's going to be in Godelb 3.
Godelb 2 is completed for those in chat.
You're already planning out next year's April Fool's.
April Fool's only comes once a year.
Yeah, but I didn't go to plan this shit.
The fucking notes for Godelb 2 are insane.
Like I had to pass through what was essentially paragraphs of just non-connecting sentences.
Yeah.
So everyone in the chat and everyone that will watch this later eventually, if you want
to understand the next Godelb, you have to watch every single Efap.
Yes.
If you've only watched one, it's not going to work.
I wonder if they would be like a crazy diehard fan who would make a video where they play
a clip from the Godelb 2 of me saying something and then the clip from Efap where it originated.
That would have to go through like 30 hours of footage.
I mean, there were some references from it seemed like even before Efap and outside of it.
I think there were.
Yeah, there's definitely a few.
And then there's a couple of jokes that are literally just made for the video.
But someone could definitely pull it off.
It's like the ultimate Efap.
Efap Encyclopedia.
She follows Tom Cruise along for a little while in another string scene and they finally
have a chance to talk to each other.
I love how he says they finally have a chance.
It's like up to this point, there would have been no reason for it to happen.
That's why it's a good scene.
He told them that she was like, I'm a good guy.
I'm totally on your team.
Then she tries to kill the person they're trying to get out of the place.
So now they need to talk.
Like why?
This is where the plot gets even thicker than Ving Rhames himself.
The human balloon.
This scene is pretty wacky.
He's not that fat.
I would have cut the human balloon part there.
I think it would have been funny.
Yeah, I was about to say the human balloon is like, you're just being redundant with
the joke you're trying to make.
If he was a quick cut after saying it's thicker than Ving Rhames and then you cut back to
the thing, I'd be like, I mean, he's definitely fat.
But I mean, there are way fatter people out there.
Yeah.
If someone said I had to put that joke in my terrible mission impossible video, then
what I would do is I would be like thicker than Ving Rhames.
I don't know.
At least he's able to do things.
There's fat people.
When I said that, it would be like a quick little scene of him giving like a, like,
surely there's pictures of him giving like a lurid smile or like a wink or something
like that.
Jesus Christ.
I'm the one that makes fun of Fatman.
I'm the one defending the.
Oh, sorry.
Are you are, are we defending the people who can vote twice?
Yes, we are.
I mean, fuck this guy might be able to vote three times.
We don't even know the rules.
I don't understand the voting multiple times.
Oh, it was on the one that you went there for is the Mark Brown one, right?
Was it?
I can't remember.
I think I think so.
Well, it's our code for someone's fat is that they could vote twice.
They take up two seats of their play.
They take up two people.
They can vote twice.
Oh, it's code.
You can get away with.
Anyway, even thicker than being Rhames himself, the human balloon.
This scene is pretty wacky because Tom Cruise just sort of figures everything out, just
kind of on the spot.
And then he tells the audience what he figured out.
You weren't at the ballet to kill Mark.
No.
You were there to protect him.
So it turns out that she was in the men's bathroom to protect John Lark because she
wanted John Lark to extract Solomon Lane so that she could kill Solomon Lane herself
because she's been drafted by MI6 to kill Solomon because Solomon used to work for MI6
as well.
So as a result, he knows too much about British intelligence.
So naturally, Britain can't have him spilling out their secrets to other countries.
And if she is able to kill Solomon, she will have a chance of living a normal life.
Smash cut to London.
You just used.
You said that it was like old.
You said the plot is going to get even thicker.
You read it all out.
You didn't criticize it.
What's the point?
There's a lot.
There's like there could be sort of a lot going on, but it's not like complicated.
Well, he hasn't said anything.
He just hasn't criticized it.
So I guess he thinks it's fine.
I don't know.
Yeah.
He's explaining the plot of the film and it all seems to work.
I mean, what's your problem with it?
Let's assume that he thinks that's fine.
We agree.
Before we go on, someone pointed out for anyone that doesn't know, what's the guy Solomon Lane?
He, if you recognize him, he's the guy from Prometheus who charted out the map of the underground
and he was the one that got lost despite being the one that made the map.
The navigators who caught the navigator.
His friend died by touching a snake alien.
Jay is pointing out a couple of people as well.
It's like Jack and Eric think this is us.
We'll think this is me.
Like, this is how we do it.
I'm just like, no.
Solomon, she will have a chance of living in that white.
Smash cut to London.
The IMF gang meet Alec Baldwin in some catacombs.
In this scene, they discuss their next plan of action.
Simon Pegg is going to wear Solomon's face.
I really like this.
It's awesome.
I really like this.
Genuinely, I think Rags, you had the same shit going on when you first watched it.
I didn't say anything.
I was like, I knew it.
I had a feeling that you have the squinty eyes.
You turn your head like, wait a minute.
And then I love that Solomon Lane does a little like smirk.
He's like, what?
He's Solomon so that Tom Cruise can hand him off to the White Widow without actually handing off the real Solomon Lane.
But apparently that meeting is a trap.
Meeting is a trap.
The White Widow was working with the CIA.
She has been since the beginning bargaining for immunity as her stock and trade.
Capturing the plutonium and the apostles and John Locke buys her a lot of goodwill.
I love the camera zoom.
They are supposed to imply that it's like, look how confusing this is.
This is the part this is the part where he apparently concocts an entire plot hole that doesn't happen.
Hooray.
All right. Well, we'll definitely tackle that.
But I was just going to say for clarification right so that we get it.
The idea is that Alec Baldwin is telling all of us that they've successfully framed Tom Cruise.
And so the CIA lady is waiting for Tom Cruise to give up Solomon Lane and she's going to capture him as well so that she can be like,
I've got both of the high value targets and the plutonium that's all over.
And they're like, but you're innocent and John Locke would still be available.
So it's like we need to come up with a counter plan.
But let's see, which is all the ruse, by the way, because Alec Baldwin is in on it.
But let's see how he addresses that.
That meeting is a trap.
Meeting is a trap.
The White Widow was working with the CIA.
She has been since the beginning bargaining for immunity as her stock and trade.
Yes, that's why they're not going for her.
The plutonium and the apostles and John Locke by a lot of goodwill with the Americans.
Which leaves me with one huge question.
Why let Tom Cruise and Henry Cavill do the mission at all?
Since everything was already set up, the White Widow was poised to capture John Locke.
We don't know.
We don't know.
Yeah, we don't know this at the time.
Yeah, the meeting hadn't taken place.
The White Widow hadn't met John Locke at that point.
We don't know what was going to happen.
Yeah.
It's too much stuff in the air to assume that they could just go, yeah, well, she's me and him, so we can just do it that way.
Somehow.
Tom Cruise is completely redundant to the mission.
If he weren't in this mission at all, things would have gone a lot smoother.
It's a massive...
Well, he was already a part of the mission in the first place.
He was the one who was trying to get the plutonium to start with.
Yeah, it was, yeah.
It's his mission.
It was his mission, yeah.
Yeah.
She's there.
Yeah.
She's awkward.
He was just completely redundant to the mission.
Well, they've already shoehorned in a villain.
Yeah, they shoehorned in the hero.
They shoehorned the hero into his own mission.
The best it's.
At all, things would have gone a lot smoother.
It's a massive plot hole.
No, it's not a...
No, it's not a...
Plot hole.
He just said, oh, is it?
I don't...
What's his point there?
Not quite back.
Yeah, he says, oh, where is it?
It's a massive plot hole.
Or is it?
I'm interrupting this review with a little bit of post commentary.
You're citing Screen Rant?
Hold on.
Hold on.
I need to check something.
Is this the same website that I sent you guys?
Oh, it is.
Okay.
Okay.
So remember how several days ago I sent both you, Mueller and Fringy, that article from
Screen Rant.
Yeah, that's right.
The Lord of the Rings, 25 ridiculous things about Frodo Baggins everyone ignores.
And the first one is he ignored Gandalf's warnings, which is like, no, he didn't.
He was quite rude.
Does anyone know what happened to his parents, which doesn't matter?
What happened to Frodo's parents?
Yeah.
They dumped...
Exactly.
They dumped off his sister at Jakku.
Maybe that was a good thing.
Anyway, this is the reason why you don't cite Screen Rant for anything ever.
So, if I remember this, he's citing an article that says Solomon Lane set everything up.
We'll just let it play out before talking about it, I guess.
And to believe that Solomon Lane has masterminded this entire movie.
Yeah, he set up Tom Cruise's Ex-Wife to Die, which I haven't even gotten to yet, but you'll see.
Solomon also knew that Tom Cruise was going to pretend to be John Lark when he met up with the White Widow.
Tom Cruise, assuming the identity of John Lark, would then allow Henry Cavill to properly frame Tom Cruise for being John Lark,
but would also still allow Tom Cruise to simultaneously freeze...
All this is irrelevant because this is not the plot.
This is some random article's defense of the plot that he's arguing against, so we don't even need...
I just feel kind of redundant.
Solomon from captivity.
And then Solomon can use this evidence...
How did Solomon make this deal with John Lark?
And it's like, I guess he communicated with him from prison in some way.
Is that an ad-hom? Do you not know what an ad-hom is?
Wait, sorry. Who are you talking to?
Someone in the chat, apparently, he thinks that me saying that this green rent article was retarded is an ad-hom.
No, it isn't.
It's literally not...
What I have to say about ad-homs is that none of us are stupid enough to use an ad-hom ever.
I think there's nothing wrong with this people playing an insult with an ad-hominim.
So like, if I say, okay, such and such and such, this is why you're wrong, you dumb fuck.
It's like, that's not an ad-hominim.
That's me insulting you after making an argument.
Yeah, it'd be like, we're not going to read that article because it was made by a fat person.
And you're like, what does that have to do with anything?
And it's like, well, yeah, I was about to say it could be relevant if the article was about how fat people...
Even if the article was about how fat people are amazing, you'd still have to give it a chance because they're fat.
People really need to figure out that insults and ad-homs...
Yeah, the insult is ancillary to the argument as opposed to the base of the argument.
Yeah, an ad-hom would be, this thing is bad, therefore you are a retard.
Calling you a retard as I'm deconstructing why something is stupid is not the same thing.
You're ugly, so you're wrong.
It's not even an ad-hominim to dismiss something because...
The article claims that Walker arranged Hunt to pose John Lark in Grand Palace, you know, after trying three times to obstruct him during the mission.
Okay, so the article is about as ill-informed as the guy who decided to cite that article for this video.
Yeah, and like I said, the only thing that is called into question is how did Solomon Lane's contact John Lark to make the deal?
And I'm just like, I don't think that's too hard for espionage agents that have connections to the CIA.
You know, I'm pretty sure John Lark could do that.
Yeah, not a hard reach.
Still allow Tom Cruise to simultaneously free Solomon from captivity,
and then Solomon can use this evidence against Tom Cruise to put Tom Cruise into captivity,
and then Solomon can detonate the nukes, and Tom Cruise will have to watch from jail.
And Solomon managed to conceive and initiate this plan off-camera before...
I think John Lark made the plan. All he told John Lark was to frame Ethan Hunt.
I think there's even a rant where he's like, why'd you have to make this stuff fucking complicated?
I mean, the movie even says that the...
I don't remember what word they used to refer to him as, but it was Henry Cavill that set up his wife being there, not Solomon.
Yeah, yeah, that was the one.
So that wasn't Solomon's plan. That was John Lark's. They literally say that in the movie.
Solomon made the deal, as simple as, my apostles will get you the plutonium in exchange for framing Hunt. Simple.
Yeah, the bringing his wife there was not Solomon... John Lark's idea.
Yeah, and it was... I think that was always an insurance policy, right?
It was like, if Ethan gets to be too fucking annoying, we can threaten the wife, which he does.
Moving on.
Oh my god.
And initiate this plan, off camera, before the movie even began, whilst being surveilled.
Why would they fucking show the villain plans on camera before we see them in full?
Like, I can't imagine that being beneficial to the film, if you know what I mean.
I think it would depend, because it's not a film, while it was turned into a film.
I'm speaking specifically about an espionage movie, right? Spies and all this shit.
Like, do we want to know if he's a villain? I was wondering if you were going to jump to Sauron or something.
I'd be like, no, that's more... I don't mean that.
I was going to reference Dune, because at the beginning of it, the first 60, 70 odd pages, it's all just the villains plotting to kill the main character's dad.
I'm picturing the opening scene is Solomon in prison, and Superman sits down with him.
You can't tell Superman, because otherwise, that would be a reveal.
And he's just like, what I want you to do, frame Ethan Hunt.
I'd be like, okay. And I'd probably be saying, I think it would have been very badly.
I was like, I think it could have been better if this was just something we learned as the movie progressed, that that was his plan, you know?
Yeah, I mean, obviously, it depends on how it's executed, but that doesn't sound as fun.
Yeah, I can't see how it would benefit the film to have done that, I guess, is my point.
...by multiple governments, and none of this is really ever said in the actual movie itself.
We're supposed to surmise all of that off of one little line of dialogue.
The deal was simple. I help you frame Hunt.
Okay.
You give me the plutonium.
That's not what you're supposed to get from that line.
The line is self-explanatory.
You get the plutonium, I frame Hunt.
You could have made this deal at any time.
It ain't the most contrived...
Sorry, it skipped a bit.
I'm so sorry that this is a problem for you.
I help you frame Hunt. You give me the plutonium.
If that ain't the most contrived, terrible writing, I don't know what...
You haven't said what...
You don't know what is. You literally don't know.
You haven't proved how it's contrived yet. You've just said what happens.
Yeah, Solomon Lane knows every trick in the book, and he's super clever and resourceful.
At this point, he has no reason to believe that this is Solomon Lane.
I don't know what his issue even is.
He's just sad that it's too bad.
Getting back on track, in this scene, we learn that Henry Cavill's plot to make Tom Cruise look like a double agent worked.
So now, Black Lady wants Alec Baldwin to turn Tom Cruise into the CIA and terminate the mission.
If Tom Cruise happens to Tom Refuse...
What do you think he's here for? He's an assassin!
Erica Sloan's number one plumber. You go rogue, he's authorized to hunt you down.
Wait a minute. He just said her name, Erica Sloan.
Why has he been not referring to her by the character name or actress?
I don't know. There is a top comment that says, like, why do you keep calling it Black Woman?
Black Lady, I don't know. It's really strange.
Girl cop, Black Lady. I don't know. Name and occupation.
Yep, that's right. Henry Cavill is an assassin. He's the Black Lady's top gun.
But Tommy doesn't like what's going on here, so he knocks Alec Baldwin out and proceeds to go along with his original plan.
While Tom Cruise and the boys go to meet the White Widow, Henry Cavill is left behind with Solomon Lane.
This is where we learn that Henry Cavill has been John Lark the entire time.
But wait, that's not Solomon Lane. That's Solomon Peg, star of the hit movie Shaun of the Dead.
How's that for a slice of fried gold?
Like, are these jokes?
I don't know.
Never mention Shaun of the Dead again, Mr.
You should have. That's the thing. If this was my video, I would have stopped there, like, it wasn't Solomon Lane.
It's Simon Peg, because the thing is, you refer to the character and then you refer to the real person.
Yeah, a lot of people are like, that's the world. Of course, he knows he used the wrong clip as a part of the joke.
There's no way he would have fucked that up.
That's not Solomon Lane. That's Solomon Peg, star of the hit movie Shaun of the Dead.
How's that for a slice of fried gold?
So now everybody, except for the people watching this movie in the audience, are all caught up.
Everybody knows Henry Cavill is bad guy, including Black Woman.
Did you get all that, Erica?
I did.
Keep showing clips of your face with her name, but he keeps going.
That's the weird thing is, like, if I was, if I had the movie in, like, Blu-ray quality or at least HD quality like that.
And I keep using clips that have her name.
I would probably go back and amend that part to make sure that I use her real name.
Unless it was like a joke name, like, you know, how you read to Rose's Shrek.
Like, it's obviously a joke, but he doesn't do that for any characters except for her and the cop.
No, I don't think girl cop.
I think he just said that just because that's what he calls cops who are female girl cop.
Well, actually, no, the only one he refers to by name is the white widow.
Oh, that's interesting.
Like, he doesn't call her evil woman or something.
Maybe he's just a racist.
I don't fucking know.
That guy, including because white widow also doubles as an patient.
That is true.
A color and occupation.
Black woman, white widow.
Yeah, I mean, he just.
I did.
But even knowing all this information, she still doesn't trust the IMF.
So she had a strike team on standby here in the catacombs the entire time.
Tom Cruise, the super spy, had no idea about these 10 guys that were hanging out here.
And they clearly entering.
We don't know where they came from exactly.
So let me explain to you how sight works.
If there's an object in between two other objects, one of the objects will be hidden from view.
So if they're like behind a wall, he can't see them.
That's how vision.
This is a betrayal.
They were not.
They were the ones that they thought they were springing the trap.
They didn't realize that Sloan had also she doesn't trust anyone there anymore.
So there would be no reason to check everywhere in this fucking catacomb, let alone outside of it,
which is probably check around that corner in case there's a strike team waiting to come in.
The CIA has prepared for us to double cross our double cross.
We forgot to check for strike teams.
Let's think the one thing we fuck up on all the time.
Every fucking time.
These 10 guys that were hanging out here, but they're probably like being quiet.
They're probably making any noise because we know that they're not only CIA agents,
they're apostles as well.
So the whole thing is to remain a secret as possible.
Yeah.
It reminds me of when the cinema sin said it's ridiculous that the alien assassin managed to sneak up on vision.
It's like the alien assassin because ridiculous for that to have.
The alien assassin.
Think about that because apparently Henry Cavill has boys on the inside of the CIA working for him.
Go.
Yep.
Yep.
As well established to all of the apostles are ex members of governments.
Now how he knew that these masked men were his.
I imagine this was always a plan B.
That's the point.
Yeah.
If he knows they're part of the strike team and the strike team walks into the room.
Do the math.
Someone said Walker mentions he has an extraction team.
Watch to Benji disguised as Lane in the very previous scene.
So they literally set this part up.
Yeah.
I didn't even let me let me get the actual quote for that.
I'm interested.
This is such a bad video.
But.
Yeah.
So he says I have no way of contacting them for their safety and mine.
But I do have an extraction team and satellite overwatch a prearranged rendezvous.
Yep.
Yeah.
And he has a backup team which he does establish to.
OK.
I'm sorry.
This is even more.
I tell you that we realize.
And this is why we appreciate writing so much when people like throw away line.
You think that'll fix everything.
It's like it can.
It really can.
Now.
A throwaway line can.
Like an.
Sorry.
In the same way that throw a throwaway line can.
It can also save it.
Yeah.
You know.
Before the Sahara was a desert.
Cool.
Sorry.
It's ruined now.
Good job.
Cool.
It's really.
I don't know.
Anyway a big old shootout breaks out and Henry Cavill is about to shoot Tom Cruise.
But thank Xenu because Alec Baldwin swoops in and saves the day just before getting stabbed
and dying right alongside his career.
It looks like Henry Cavill's weight training.
I'm sure that his millions and millions and millions of gajillions of dollars will help.
Alec Baldwin is doing just fine.
Apparently.
Alec Baldwin is fine.
Apparently the guy who's been supplying most of the information I've been reading from
the chat said he saw this movie in theaters six times.
So so he's not happy with this.
Is he happy?
Was he even bored?
Is he happy with our coverage so far?
South Pole?
He seems to be very happy to keep telling us all the things that he's getting wrong
that we might miss.
I was going to say thank you.
Because it'll make our coverage even stronger.
South Pole you are now and for the rest of the stream an honorary Efapper.
Yes.
You're like you're like Theo but you didn't get a voice.
So it totally makes sense.
You're like Theo.
In our chat we have Space Oyster said bad video but at least he's getting provable facts
wrong rather than saying something like everything is subjective.
True.
That's the level we're at on Efab.
Oh he tweeted me before.
Sorry if I've missed the tweet but he said I love it making my own video response to
this.
Good luck sir.
Oh yeah go for it.
You don't need my permission because you probably know anyway but you're welcome to use any
of the points we've we've used.
Was that South Pole that said that?
Yes.
Okay.
Yes good luck with that.
It's because there's plenty to work with in this video.
Nothing paid off because he decides to grab Ving Raims and drag him but Ving Raims gets
Henry in the neck with a tracking dart then he runs away and he escapes and he calls in
a second strike.
And who's been using the tracking dart up to this point.
He even acknowledges that he calls in his second strike team.
Oh dear.
Rip.
Ving Raims.
There is this weird element where he's describing the plot elements and I don't know whether
or not I'm supposed to.
Yeah like I'm like is this a criticism or is it not.
I'm like Raims is the one who was using the tracking dart before so it makes sense that
he would kind of use it to defend himself in a pinch.
I thought it was really cool because it doubles up it's not only a thing we go what the fuck
do you just do to me but it's also like oh shit you can track him now too.
Yeah it shows that these are competent characters in the neck.
They're not here just for supporting in comic relief like they can defend themselves they
can help.
Then he runs away and he escapes and he calls in a second strike team to continue fighting
Ethan.
Then Henry Cavill just continues to briskly walk to his extraction zone that he had already
set up.
He said that in the book he literally said yeah he is briskly walking because if you
start running around that's why you draw attention to yourself like if you're if you if you if
you're out if you're driving on the road and you realize that you accidentally left your
wallet at home you don't speed home to go and get it.
You obey the speed limit and he's clearly got shifty eyes throughout the whole sequence
of him walking away.
It's like yep I'm a normal dude normal day.
Just me and my mustache.
This is what incites that famous foot chase scene where Tom Cruise broke his ankle.
While the foot chase itself is neat.
Interesting.
Yeah the mad man he continued.
He keeps doing all of his all of his stunts and I love it.
It makes the actions so visceral.
It does because it means you can actually have it all tight and up close without having
a monster.
You know Tom Cruise Tom Cruise is one weird dude and he's done some stuff but he is he
is an amazing actor.
I respect a man who does his own stunts.
I've never broken my ankle.
I respect him.
Doing my own stunts.
Who's a Scientologist.
I mean what.
Oh Xenu.
This scene really bothers me because Henry Kevin knows that Tom Cruise is alive and could
potentially be on his tail.
The second strike team that he called in should have immediately alerted him and told him
that Tom Cruise has left the catacombs and is now chasing Henry.
They're probably busy fighting for their lives.
Oh I'm busy.
I mean either way the only thing that I could even if he was right all you're suggesting
would mean that Henry should have escaped easily than he already does.
You know what I mean.
Like this doesn't change anything.
Even if they if they told him hey Tom Cruise is on your fucking tail he'd be like okay.
And it's not and yeah and I it's not.
I think I would call this a nitpick.
It's valid but it doesn't do anything.
Yeah it's it's a distinction without a difference really and also how do we know that they didn't
tell him something.
Yeah they could have.
Like what difference what difference would it make.
He can't run because it would draw communication yeah it would draw attention right towards
him.
And he's in a crowd of people.
There's everyone walking around.
He might not necessarily know that he's been tracked.
People are calling me out for easily sounds like a total yeah no I I don't really I don't
see how that changes anything.
Cavill he should be booking at the very least he shouldn't be leaving this door wide open
so that anyone can just yeah that's kind of yeah that's kind of again yeah I give him
that but the problem is that if if this scene ended up that Tom Cruise shot him through
the head or stopped him I'd be like yeah the only reason that happens is because all these
different things don't happen but it doesn't change anything.
Like the what notice the door close on its own eventually and Tom Cruise I was watching
it last night.
No the door he just leaves it open and my media thought was yeah I'm going to close
it.
Yeah but I'll I'll allow him that I don't know I haven't gone to the fence of this
fairish building.
It's clearly locked.
He's got the key anyway Tommy C catches up with Henry C. But Henry can't kill Tom Cruise
yet because Solomon conveniently has plans for Tom convenient.
It's the entire premise of the fucking deal.
So plans are convenient now.
How convenient it is that characters want things.
How convenient is that.
How convenient that the bad guy who doesn't like Tom Cruise and wants to fuck with his
life just happened to make a plan that would fuck with his life.
Wow plans are convenient now.
We've already passed the scene where he gives you it blatantly it's like you get me the
plutonium I frame hunt.
It's like wow how convenient that he wants to not kill hunt when he's trying to do the
plan of frame hunt.
How can you possibly say that a plan is the whole point of a plan plan is to create convenience.
It's to orchestrate events so to be prepared for things.
What an odd it's odd you can't kill Tom Cruise yet because Solomon conveniently has plans
for Tom Cruise and if Tom Cruise tries to kill Henry Cavill somebody somewhere in the
world is going to kill Tom Cruise's ex-wife from Mission No that's still married on there.
No I don't think so because she's got a yeah she's got a husband or whatever.
Yeah Jake this is this is literally the movie up can't say that yeah yeah but what's the
problem the door I guess so I don't have anything somebody somewhere in the world is going to
kill Tom Cruise's ex-wife from Mission Impossible 3.
You know what this video is like half like what it's doing right now it's making me
think even better of this movie yeah because he's explaining the plot and how it makes
sense yeah all the defenses we've had to bring in are essentially revealing just how
thought out a lot of these things were so it makes you appreciate it more you know I
don't understand like so is this is this question that they found his wife because it's like
yeah well the high-ranking members of the CIA so they have access to information that's
what the apostles are like okay is the question that it's ridiculous that someone would be
able to kill her I have no idea what his criticism is anybody got any table somebody somewhere
in the world is going to kill Tom Cruise's ex-wife I don't know I don't know I guess
he considers it like it's unreasonable that's the villain is competent and plans ahead literally
the movie up to this point which mind you is one hour and 40 minutes into the movie
we get nothing of substance or consequence we've been literally pointing out all of the
substance that you keep washing over okay but to be fair this scene ain't bad we're
finally treated to something of weight even then this part of the movie is still pretty
expositorial and not particularly well written so when they're planning for what they're
gonna do to try and defeat the villains it's expositorial I don't know why wasn't it before
there's no consistency here don't he likes the Oscar bait scene I just I mean I like
the scene it's nice to make Ving Raims act instead of having him just say Ethan go that
way Ethan do this in this scene he has to admit that he's the reason that everybody's
gonna die like wow that's interesting but the idea that it's expositorial I'm just like
is any scene where anyone explains anything expositorial does it I do is that how this
works it seems extremely arbitrary and it doesn't seem to be based on any set of criteria
but at least it's a decent little bit of character building because Ethan wouldn't
let me die he's a good man and here we also learn that Ilse has a thing for Tom Cruise
and most Tom Cruise is attracted to me I got a thing for men who do their own action
songs he does his own talking scene despite the fact that he is 21 years younger than
he is 35 this is a movie it's not real they're actors they're playing roles like this 30
year old like she's a fucking adult she can decide who she wants to kiss in a movie that
she is acting it I don't think they kissed I don't think they kissed in this movie they
get paid millions of dollars to pretend to like each other but the thing is though like
even if it was in real life who cares like what's who gives a shit yeah like hashtag
any love what you think about it who doesn't want to be with Tom Cruise I can picture a
baby Shuba tweeted that out it that Tom Cruise just replies to it saying no alright yeah anyway
yeah so the actors have different ages this is a problem frames tells us that Tom left his ex-wife
because he felt like he needed to continue being an IMF agent and wanted to keep the I don't know
if you want to you want to address that wolf stigma said didn't you consider fit a black
manta's race and make lots of black jokes whenever Matt Manter his father on screen yeah so I guess
they're trying to say that referring to the black ladies a black lady in this video I mean there's
no joke well first off I'm pretty certain I referred to black manta as black manta like
throughout almost the entire video I mean I absolutely did say oh yeah the black man tries
to save his dad as he's being crushed by the stupid torpedo I also refer to him as black
manta throughout most of that video that's an X in the next I mean there was like an actual
implied joke there I was about to say there's no joke in this video he just keeps saying the black
lady while showing clips of her name it's like okay it's it's true because if there was a joke
here I wouldn't have an actual I mean at the end of the day it's not really that big of a problem
since his arguments are more of a problem but I just don't understand why he's doing it is the
thing anyway yeah hopefully that what they're looking for the firm penis despite the fact that
she is 21 years younger than he is ving raims tells us that Tom left his ex-wife because he
felt like he needed to continue being an IMF agent and wanted to keep the world safe but just
between you and me I think that Tom Cruise dumped the bitch because she turned 40 but that's enough
of that because now we need another exposition dump about how the bombs work and how to disarm
the bombs in order to set up the big climax after that Tom Cruise bumps into his ex-wife
and you know what I like this scene as a longtime fan see so he is pointing out things that are
positive or at least things that he likes skipped over so much when I'm 42 yeah but he skipped over
so much of the things in the film that are good or not even halfway through this video and he's
almost yeah it'll be interesting to see how this plays out and of this franchise JJ said that's why
he kept bringing up the ages it was a setup for the joke that wasn't funny he tried I always wanted
closure between these two and this movie provides that it's honestly believe it or not probably what
I like most about this movie she even goes in there and helps the action no there's this relationship
with his wife getting closer I guess someone said Wow Tom Cruise looks younger younger than who
the 35 year old oh well I think it's funny enough Michelle Moynihan is if that's her name on well
however you pronounce it I feel like she's the youngest looking out of all the ones he's been
referencing and she's like the oldest out of all the women apparently he looks good for age but
great shit out of her there you go me too please yeah even goes in there and that tent with all the
sick people Oh frames disable the nukes since he couldn't fit his inflamed dinosaur hands into
that small little dinosaur why wouldn't you go with sausage what if he just has normal person
hands it's just really small I'm pretty sure she uses a tweezers or something this is like even a
joke where he says like you pick up the pliers and then she says what and he's like the things
with the red grip implying that it's not a fingers that are useful here it's just her being an extra
set of hands yeah but he only has two hands and I think he said he can't let go of something I was
for a joke anyway just wanted to say the Bing rings was fat again because that's really funny
disable the new since he couldn't fit his inflamed dinosaur hands into that small little compartment
he needed her tiny little snowpiercer hands to get no he's done no he needed an extra pair of hands
dude he said he needed her snowpiercer has it shows a clip of her using a tool like okay
he literally says he can't let go of the flyer uh yeah it was for joke yeah that's it yeah I
knew there was a line in there that was like that's why simon pegg and what's your face at the end
they have to work together to get the
speaking of which I know what I'm doing after this stream
it was one of the only two parts of the movie that had any character or tension what do you mean
what excuse me any character or tension that's all right you said you'd like the part where
vin raims talks to her about he's the reason that oh yeah you say that you wait did you say
it's one of the only or the only disable the nukes since he couldn't fit his inflamed dinosaur
hands into that small little compartment he needed her tiny little snowpiercer hands to get the job
done it was one of the only two oh he says one of the only two all right all right he's still wrong
but at least he's consistently wrong he's consistent part of the movie that had any character
or tension her knowing nothing about their situation really helped to ground this scene
benji come in we're almost at the fuse we need to find that other bomb now did you just say other
bomb and as far as the plot goes that's pretty much it the rest of this movie is basically just
the big climax tom cruz flies a helicopter well the last 10 minutes of the movie is through the
wall i wish my climax was just the climber flies a helicopter which is awesome solomon
actually i'm gonna write that one down it's a very tall thing to say the last 10 minutes
of the movie are just the climax it's like punches through the wall like jason voorhees
and pulls ilsa through it despite the fact that his arms are about as muscular as my dogs
ultimately he of course oh i didn't know he saw you could see his arms through that jacket
i'm gonna say those arms don't look that thin but okay yeah they don't seem unusual to me and he's
established as a agent of the cia tied up like a little pig yes sorry this crash is a very bad
cartographer i mean you should know that you live in the i don't live here by six ultimately he
of course loses the fight and he gets tied up like a little piggy sorry but uh i just want to
he's glossing over everything uh the fight with him back and forth thing between ilsa and simon
pegg was fucking awesome yeah i thought that was really cool how simon pegg sacrifices his footing
to help her in the fight yeah really good stuff tom cruz crashes his helicopter into henry calval's
helicopter then they fight on top of this giant rock of ages everyone else including ethan's
rock of ages why of ages uh not a reference well no it's just rock it's like they're on a rock
oh here's a movie that has the word rock in it rock of ages like you could have gone anyway
he could have said they fight on a rock they could have they they fought on a dwayne johnson
that could have been he could have just said he could have just said they fight on iraq and
it was like just a topographical map of the country of iraq
all right look i'm just this is off the top of my fucking head people go kill yourself
i think the bombs with their eyes wide shut of course they succeed and together they
prevented casually in rock of ages so i guess that's the connection yeah that's what i i thought
your question was why just related to that oh no i didn't i didn't know tom cruz was in rock of ages
he's got to get them in there dude they're funny cashmere from being nuked into oblivion after
that we get our nice sweet happy ending we learn here that his ex-wife is happy well almost given
closure between these two characters but pretty much all of the apostles are still at large
except for bad guy who is now being given to the white widow who am i six who i guess the white
widow is also she is a broker yes this was established good faith with cia the imf have
solomon they are dealing with the white widow to give to cia we this is stuff that happens in the
movie affiliated with there's that cut back to tom cruz who is bedridden and is desperately afraid
that his dinner is going to be overcooked the ribs watch the ribs fade to credits and that's
pretty much it that's the plot to this entire movie pretty simple and easy to follow huh why
did you have to make this kind of so fucking complicated i remember you get one f for pg-13
and i liked it yeah you only got the one so you gotta use it well that's what it is and
i remember the use of it in elita for me yeah it's like the most unearned
like it caught me off guard i was like oh what it was right after the scene where she
dipped her fingers in this random puppy's oh yeah i sit on her face so that was something that was
to be some pivotal moment i was gonna i was wondering you know because you see it in the
trail i'm like how's it gonna be and when it was dog i'm like what it was just some random puppy
killed off screen to establish that the bad guy we already bad guy is actually a really bad guy
because he killed a dog and it worked in john wick so yeah well at least in john wick it was
like okay it was yeah we cared about the dog he wasn't even her own dog it was just some random
dog she saw for like 13 seconds of the film and it worked in i'm legend in there was his dog
yeah we got a whole movie with the dog i mean it was so stupid people defend that scene
it was dumb i mean i'm i'm eager to see if the manga actually better or if that's even what
happens in the manga but i mean isn't the track record that the the manga is better than the uh
than the the film usually i don't know i saw a lot of people saying that it was
accurate to the manga which i'm hoping is not the case the love said about john wick i'm not
upset about john i love john wick john wick is awesome um yeah but maula doesn't like john wick
too and uh i'm still trying to convince him otherwise i love john wick too yeah i'll make
a video one day i really do hate that film and it's precisely probably because why you guys like
it oh oh dear oh dear the manga doesn't have the dog scene i'm sure it doesn't know so they added
the stupid scene oh my god uh you know i love it when people are like it's just like the manga and
then the people that have read the manga they're like what are you talking about i have a friend
who has read at least some of the original manga and um he said that they crammed like the first
five story act uh story arc sorry in the mo in the movie yes it does condense it down you know
that's one of which kind of explains a lot i mean if they again that movie could have been good if
it was three hours long instead of two they just were like let's let's not develop anything and
hope that people like it and unfortunately people do so anyway back to we're about to enter into
the second portion i have no idea what this video is going to do i'm kind of interested the ribs
watch the ribs fade to credits and that's pretty much it that's the plot to this entire movie
pretty simple and easy to follow huh why did you have to make this so fucking complicated i tried
my very best to make the plot to this movie as palatable as possible and it was quite a struggle
to do that because like i said earlier they packed an entire 12 hours one one thing that's interesting
is that he has he's a he has a big focus on how complicated and hard to follow the plot is
but everybody almost universally loves this film apparently people are okay with it i guess he
thinks that they don't realize they don't understand what's happening i guess so it's
just that's interesting but okay our story into a two hour and 20 minute movie but i'm certain that
at this point a lot of people in the comments are going to be calling me an idiot for not being able
to follow this movie's plot well i mean well you you kind of lied about the plot and made up a hole
that wasn't there you're not you're not an idiot if you can't follow the plot but you're just idiot
wouldn't be able to follow the first time through it wasn't until i went through the movie
with a fine tooth comb that i was able to you went through it with like a really broken fine
tooth comb don't believe you went through the film's plot with a toothpick he was like poking
at things like he just dragged it there's a fine tooth comb like no like this video this video is
going to just act as harm to us because our opposition are going to use videos like this
and be like this is what mauler rags it's good that we're covering it then right
right yeah we can be like this is how we we would respond to what people would be like this is what
mauler does like well mauler doesn't agree with it so also did he say tooth or toothed let's have a
look it wasn't until i went through the movie with a fine tooth comb that i was able to fully grasp
all of the moving pieces and don't get me wrong i hate it you didn't grasp it you literally didn't
grasp it these are dumbed out firmly possible is just too complicated for its own good it's so
unbelievably messy could you imagine your grandma trying to comprehend mission impossible
could you imagine your grandma trying to i don't know why my grandma wouldn't watch this i can't
imagine my grandma fucking got freaky with my grandpa which made my parents and they did the
horizontal hokey pokey and then i came about because of that but i know it happened what's your point
um the point is you know actually i forgot i was thinking about my grandma fucking so i
think i lost he makes a good point grandparents might not like this film old people old possibly
senile people might not follow along is insulting grandma someone in the chat put in a wolf a dog
a frog and a skull wolf dog frog you're you're you're a frog now for me oh okay oh i get it he had
to get a great hold of a guess this is the closest i get it wrong i see could you imagine your grandma
trying to comprehend mission impossible fallout her brain would just get scrambled
yeah see you later grandma the first time i why oh man i wish this you could hire a comedy person
to oh god someone's calling a comedian now a comedy person blessed frog what have you done
i just pointed it out i didn't i mean that's how jj biggs was born
i think grandma all right everyone fringy's new name is froggy did the ill person
nauseated frog sick frog hashtag sick frog no no i'm not i'm not there there's there's a kit
there's some confusion in with when i was going on my tangent about my my relatives
relations is you know um not not don't don't misconstrue that as my grandparents made my
my the two my two same grandparents made both of my parents so oh yeah don't don't misconstrue that
i i thought that you would be able to well you all from the south i am from i am from arkansas
however if there are any immense genetic defects that um that they haven't reached me quite yet
dude you think there's such a thing as objective art critique like you're clearly fucked
your brain is all messed up noodles noodles noodles just get scrambled
so what's it i am the godfrogger
hey frog bill froggy froggy make some videos on froggy
god damn it yeah frog you hop to it come on teenage mutant ninja frog
beautiful speaking of spy we're gonna keep calling you froggy until you make a video speaking
um springy is your is your spy frog name pond james he's not denying it so
come on froggy make a video is this what it's become now we're gonna bully you until you make
a video if my left led me to this why are we here just to suffer let the man hang himself
with his own video geez see every night i can feel my arm the first time i watched frog legs
you've pulled froggy alone they have this kind of dream would just get scrambled i don't you're
right see you later grandma the first time i watched this i never had any clue what was
going on in this movie there are like five different oh bayouin bayouin please draw froggy
draw froggy look we've taken four hours to get to this point you have plenty of time draw froggy
as a frog boy he's gonna have to he's gonna have to be obligated to wear that until he makes a video
oh bayouin does actually have new art by the way
oh should i should i should we should should we look at it should we do like a half-time do
super chats look at that and i mean i figure we're at the point with this show now that we
always do super chats at the end um do you want me to keep there's two memes one of them is bayouins
should we keep them for the end or
well now i kind of want to see it now okay
what we gotta we gotta stream for at least two more hours so bayouin can finish the
frog so what'd we call rags to get him to release another video a new video is going to be out uh
probably tomorrow i think i finished i can wrap this up tonight and i also do reviews on exclusively
games so yeah i was about to i was about one of those a week so how's that going by the way it's
pretty good followed by twitter i don't even
solid argument snape stoneman and light what just
all right and then this this is this is the one
that's how that's how misa will win not watching who i hate watching
that rhino's got some uh pretty hefty titties oh god yeah does he say two percent on them as well
oh god what's what's the uh what's the video there what's what's that and just
lord of the rings oh oh lord of the rate jj is throwing it out we got jj rose binks
horrifying jj tico binks
writing is rhino elephant titties jay still in chat i wonder if you would have something to say
uh yeah
and yeah so he said that there's uh well i'll just i'll just throw him back
i never had any clue what was going on in this movie there are like five different factions
he's like there are like five different factions and i'm like yes there are yeah pretty easy to
follow he says he has many many things to say jj tinks that's what it is well welcome world
of which never appear on camera so his complaint here is the apostles and the mi6 are not seen on
screen when she's a part of the mi6 so i don't see how that's not counted and we see the apostles
several times like the the group of men that work for john lark a lot of them i don't maybe
he means we don't see them planning things room if you know what i mean yeah we are in the locker
room i guess i don't like i don't i don't really know what the point here is uh yes we don't oh
it's like uh it's a right going the what we're doing he lagging for you guys yeah you're broke
up like six times in that sentence oh jesus christ broke up like six times just like tom cruz
you got it that was main you shouldn't have said that what if he saw this what would he think of
you now then hey we we've been defending him all the way up you knew as my witness
john lark is an apostle is he not well he hired them but he shares their views i believe so you
could possibly consider him an apostle but he's not a sith but like he's just how it works yeah
he's got a red lightsaber but he's not a sith if you're allied you're the same as each other
effectively that's how it works i get i'm just i don't i don't really know what he wants is he
like do you wanted to see them planning things is that what he wanted well then he hasn't that's
the thing he wants to see them planning things but whenever they plan things then he has to deal
with it well i'd say that his goals seem to align with the apostles in terms of what he wants
because remember in the manifestation yeah exactly like um causing havoc in a certain sense and also
it's sort of is beneficial to him because he wants to screw over ethan because he he got him you know
before yeah again uh i'm just waiting for him to make a point in this movie there are like five
different factions at play two of which never appear on imf is on camera all the time because
he said the apostles in the mi6 are not on camera no no no go back he grayed out imf apostles are
literally play it back again he says two of which are not on screen and
grays out three uh can we go away yeah can we go back i want to see which absolutely
see you later grandma the first time i watched this i never had any clue what was going on in
this movie there are like five different factions at play two of which never appear on camera
but mi6 is on camera because she is represented this is what i mean i don't understand what his
point is because we see the apostles several times too but i don't know if he means we don't see them
planning things is that what he's getting every time every time the apostles attack the apostles
it's like whenever information is shown green he's like oh never shown on green he complains that
it's not shown it's like is there anything that can like actually please him beyond like i don't
know paying attention to the movies since he just got like everything wrong you know we've
never seen tom cruz have lunch through this entire movie you'd be hungry by the
helicopter scene no that would be a problem because you'd have to have him go to toilet
then as well yeah hey humans have to eat hold on guys uh i just gotta take a shit
and then it just shows them sitting there for like three or four minutes just waiting yeah
what do you mean up to benji oh uh you know i'll be watching some netflix all right anything good
uh nah not too much they pull out their nintendo switches and start playing mario
but in that universe this video is like this is a string scene to connect us to the next action
i don't know man it establishes that he's pooping
factions at play two of which never appear on camera so i was constantly asking myself wait
who's that guy wait why are they it's not the film's fault if you can't remember people's
names and who they work for i'm sorry it's not the film's fault here again wait hang on so who
what because this movie why would he put the who what when showing the police officer in
france was that hard to understand that's girl cop girl cop yours are correct myself wait who's
that guy wait why are they here again wait hang on so who what because this movie constantly
just dumps you with exposition just because you said they dump exposition in two or three
scenes doesn't mean they constantly dump exposition by your own fucking judgment
another word that's going to get fucked isn't it constantly means it happens all the time or not
all the time there's constantly helicopter chases movie were you fully sure what was going on all
times no never your context yeah but that's that's how it works with a lot of films when
infinity war they i remember even the russo said very few people know the story from start to finish
and also actors don't know there's so many ways you can break that down they don't have the actors
don't have a movie to watch yeah this is what i mean it's like it's the it's not you know how
people are oh really it's not a cut it's like you do not understand how films are put together
there was a lot of stuff and they don't film films in chronological yeah that's another problem and
simon peg wasn't even in every scene in every scene he didn't know i suppose you could be like
but he read the script didn't he he'd be like yeah but still things the script isn't the final cut
i mean look they filmed all three lord of the rings films at once in the span of like a year
like a half it was like it was like 400 something days i think it was it was more than i remember
i don't remember the exact number impress impressively fast i i know that they filmed
all three movies at the exact same time which is why they all look so consistent with one another
like you know yeah some sequels i just but this is the thing we're assuming all these
kind of arguments but it's like we don't even know what that was about in that clip
you know you go you could it could have been anything could have been like do you know what's
even going on in relation to the red carpet and he goes no no i have no idea like i'm assuming it's
about the film and it's plot whatever but simon peg not understanding what's going on is not how
would he know how do you know what simon peg i there's scenes without him in it you realize
he's not the other thing is in the interview with laughs it almost seems like simon peg was saying
it to make him laugh yeah i like it was a joke because simon peg is a comedian yeah i would like
to know the context of the question and tell me that simon peg might very much is not definitely
doing this to make a joke remember multiple faces he's literally twisting who certain people are
affiliated with and oh wait have i not gone back far this is it right here oh wait that was that
was a pause screen i want to do though who's that guy wait why are they here again wait hang on so
what because this girl constantly just dumps you with exposition fully sure what was going on all
times no never even smigs at the end of it like come on baddie stupid joke you're expected to
remember multiple faces you're expecting to remember you are expected to be able to distinguish
different human beings from one another that is correct well so every single movie in the history
of filmmaking congratulations oh you know all white people they look the same okay here we go
and then look it can be tough i don't know remember multiple faces several
well who several names several names really that's going on too several names watching
infinity war you have to remember several faces and several names wait this is like batman
look at this look at this who's the red guy so have you guys got the pole screamer is all the
writing yeah so you guys oh let me play it a little bit oh sorry you got it now i don't
you guys oh shit hang on let me i'll pull it back actually wait can one of you guys pull it
back to 2040 just to make sure i can do it and then i'll pause it as soon as he does it so we
can all look at it 2040 okay here's 2039 wait constantly just dumps you with exposition
were you fully sure what was going on all times no never you're expected to remember multiple
faces several names who's certain all right can everyone see all right yeah yep so solomon
lane in charge of the apostles the answer to that is yes made john lark frame ethan hunt yes that's
in the film it's part of their deal masterminded the entire plot like jigsaw no you got that from
an article did everything while imprisoned he had one meeting with john lark apparently at some point
which is feasible because john lark is high up in the cia okay good very easy white widow
ties with the cia yes that has made explicit several by the way it's very possible that lark
was the one who went to lane yes um and then you got broker for the apostles it's like she's a
broker in general she connects buyers governments everything she's very well connected eyes with the
mi6 yes yeah it's like knows that tom cruz is pretending to be john lark possibly um i don't
know that we we get confirmation or even an implication of that i don't know why that's a
question at the end it's possible she learns at the end but by then it's fine she knows uh
john has what they want not an apostle well it wouldn't matter if he is or not
identifying himself as an apostle he shares their interests and he's hired them so
i don't know why that's he might as well be yeah optia cia agent slash assassin yes it's
literally declared i had the apostles to obtain plutonium but got swept up into solomon's plan
no it's gets the apostles to get in plutonium in exchange for solomon's plan of framing ethan hunt
help bent on destroying society as we know it uh no he thinks that blowing up high populated areas
will cause society to unite great suffering brings a great peace whatever it is yes corrupted cia
agents from within or hide his own crew it's corrupted cia agency makes that very clear
couldn't shave his mustache fair enough yeah um what i'm trying to say is like this is designed
to make you look at it and go oh my god yeah there's so much shit wow all these words i don't
have nearly enough time in this film this movie to read all of these words and it's like all this
is just in the film i don't know what to say yeah it's just like yeah someone said all around me
are faces
unfamiliar face
are all around me are familiar face multiple names
to remember multiple faces several names who certain people are affiliated with
maybe said that not just two but several when you write that you need to make it more explicit like
i think his implication is we need to remember pictures of people's faces is that what he's going
for but even then uh you don't need to remember them and one of them is a fucking character from
the previous film it's a weird fucking comment to make several ladies of black races
certain people are affiliated with and all of this stuff is only on screen for like two seconds
i thought you said you were annoyed at how long the exposition dumps were
how long does it take for you to recognize a face exactly i just i just what does he want
what does he want it's too long already but it's too short to remember anything
okay or is just very briefly mentioned on top of that there are some plot conveniences
and there are that's not a convenience if it doesn't make anything happen that didn't happen
anyway hold on hold on can you go back like three seconds and pause at that part where he's opening
the door two seconds or is just just noticed briefly mentioned on top of there look tom cruise
is running for him even if he does shut the door it's not gonna matter he can just wrench it open
real quick well his argument is that he should shut and lock it because he has the key
okay i guess you can lock well yeah but then you never know if he's gonna be able to lock it before
tom cruise gets there this is probably the only like one of very small tiny things you could even
call i don't see how this is a plot convenience because it doesn't make anything convenient happen
he's home cruise is gonna lose him so he leaves the door open you're like oh so tom cruise can
catch him it's like no he still loses him so let's assume the convenience yeah tom cruise
this is a me way let's assume that tom cruise doesn't get in there and he just pounds on the
door angrily and uh superman flies away say yeah you get the same exact result yeah how does that
change the plot what would be a convenience is if the writer said fuck he's got the key to open this
door so he should lock it's like just have him forget to do it and tom cruise can catch him
that would be a convenience can shoot the lock off yeah doesn't have a gun it's a point that
my mess makes the thing is that the scene previously establishes that he runs out of
ammo in his gun doesn't pick up another one before he sprints off so many criticisms of this film
are terrible for that there are some but we got the door and there are major plot points that
happen off camera you can't just okay you know what we didn't see aragorn's birth in lord of
the rings it happens off camera a lot of things see the war where he was with um say it in his
dad i think it's all very like loads of things happen off camera in lord of the rings you know
it's convenient legolas has the right amount of arrows to kill everything he needs to kill
except for that time where he didn't have enough air listen it's just it's the nature of plans
that whenever a plan happens it is assumed that the plan was in the past made it's like i'm trying
to think of a rule here like the only time is bad when it's off camera is when something that
we need explained takes place like we need a reason for the thing to have it's just like this
yeah that's the thing they cut out like fucking decades of information we're like thanks um not
everything needs to be on camera if ever we've implied that we apologize because that's just
this is not this is not it chief well that's basically the straw man of the the argument
against a lot of the efap stuff yeah well you need everything it's like patrick william's video
about plot holes are not always bad would be a pretty good like counter to this video if you
picked these ones specifically but there's still a shit video but you know what i mean
is only on screen for like two seconds it's like this dude aimed to just make the straw man
that patrick made a reality or is just very briefly mentioned on top of that there are some
plot conveniences and there are major plot points that happen off camera that are rectified with
just a line or two you can't better fixed with a line because it fixes it it's not a problem if
it's fixed he's dumb it's you're just supposed to take everybody at their word and it's all tell
and no show what you just what uh well what do you mean it's all no show first off can we just get
this out of the way tell not show is not necessarily bad it depends on how it's done yes and you're
already wrong there's a ton of show not tell in this movie you complain about it when it happens
it then when they do tell not show you complain about that too he doesn't even literally he's
making conclusions as if he's proven these you know like but when we said when jack was criticizing
my uh my lengthy plot analysis and we said that the point of it is evidence so when you make
conclusions you're drawing from all of the evidence he just says this exposition in scenes
and now his conclusions are there's loads of exposition it's like you haven't proven it you've
just said that's the case he just said a problem in this movie we have to take everyone on their
word it's like what are we doing in your video right now man if this guy actually comes on efap
he's not going to have a fun time i mean it'll be interesting it'll be interesting for
i kind of want to have what's his name southpaw like just call him out on it maybe we should just
get him on southpaw add that guy yeah southpaw will probably we'll just watch the fire off camera
then we'll be here to collect this in a few hours i just had somebody on twitter have a picture
of a frog with the the eye things from my avatar put on it thanks guys thanks a bunch you ruined
everything you ruined everything beowyn's gonna ruin it all the oh so i'm sorry beowyn i don't
mean ruin i mean make everything better i thought you could walk into this den of memes and leave
unscathed like the sola sailor just said southpaw is in the chat at baller it's like we were aware
i've been quoting him for the past couple hours blessed from
may he hop forever the card that we couldn't quite read in that meme by the way the guy sent me uh
blavitch sent me the actual card it was jj biggs writing the write-up it says
a simple farmer that obtained a secret to harvesting the greatest beverage known to man
jay is a simple farmer um you know i just realized fringing your original drawing it
wasn't a sperm cell it was a tadpole and that turns into a beautiful frog you got me you figured
we have law yeah yeah confirmed by fringing himself fringy the frog no no what is this to
not be unsaid hashtag fringy the froggo blessed the pipe bit of the frog would have to join forces
and let me guess in chat now that's gonna be all over the place yeah i see frogs jesus you see frog
is praying all around me are familiar froggos off camera that are rectified with just a line or two
you're just supposed to take everybody at their word and it's all tell and no show the plot is
fringy are you going are you going to permit suicide
all right so convoluted as it is because the plot had to be written
around several pre-existing action scenes you know what that could have been the reason
a film is convoluted but this film isn't so your your assessment of what the problem is
just it's just irrelevant it would be it would be like me saying this pipe is leaking because
the house was hit by a missile and you go the pipe's not leaking well well i guess let me
i don't know i could probably give an example of what he is saying but correct you know
warfare 2 is a mess and the reason why it's a mess is because you can very clearly see the
set pieces that they wanted and then it's like fuck how do we do this uh whatever yeah they gotta
go to brazil they gotta chase them on a favela oh we're gonna have uh we're gonna have americans
fighting russians in washington dc uh how do you intend on explaining that like oh they just
disabled everything with this module oh we we want to shoot at in an airport oh how do we do that oh
well they're bad guys so you know it's easy as wyson just said as well uh lock being bad is
revealed by the phone that is show don't tell it's like nah it ruins the narrative that's this
thing he he's completely inconsistent he doesn't like show don't tell and he doesn't like tell
don't show one of the there's a comment in his video that i 100 agree with right now one of the
top comments is like thanks for making me like this movie more that is like yeah i do like this
movie's better than i thought it was now i've been thinking actually having to argue in favor
of this movie has made me appreciate it so much more like good job this could it would be close
it would easily be my top five of 2018 i'm just not sure if i place it first we live in a world
where fallout did fallout win any oscars so uh no like panther won three so well that makes me
fallout wasn't even nominated for best cinematography because remember there's
nothing impressive about being able to do you know there's nothing impressive about that
action movie you're stupid nothing impressive about your act of learning how to fly a helicopter
just to do a set piece of the movie he actually learned he did yes he did that wasn't that wasn't
cg guy that was real he learned how to fly a helicopter well i i didn't think that it was cgi
i just thought it was like they had him in like dude when he does all the stunts that's he does
all the stunts he learned how to fly a helicopter for this movie i will double check black panther
won three oscars and they were in the green screen for most of it i want to die that is
that is the worst thing i have ever heard i love the he opens this video saying like
cherry charts gave it the number one spot 2018 we're like yes yeah i i'm actually like retract
like this having to do this dream has made me actually put mission impulse will follow as
not only subjectively my favorite movie of last year but objectively probably the best movie of
last year yeah until you see whatever else came out right oh yeah all the arthouse movies that
no one cares about sure no i mean i really like the favorite i wouldn't mind watching that with
you see what you think oh i i haven't even heard of it exactly there's a couple movies i haven't
seen still from 2018 that are recommended but yeah it's uh it's just i guess this is the worst
video you guys have covered on efap i don't think anything's gonna beat jack saint for a while
jack saint was definitely the worst yeah like that it was malicious so like this isn't malicious
both of those were way worse than this yeah this one is just really inaccurate this is this is back
to what we usually get on efap where people are just poorly representing media tiaro as well
tiaro was really bad yep um what i will give you is that this is a really bad representation of
what the movie is uh like probably the worst i've seen i don't think i've seen anyone else's video
and even this is worse than yms is by far because yms is so vague about a lot of things
what about movie yeah like like like remember how yms completely concocted a scene that was not in
the movie i don't yeah i still wonder what he was talking about with that one there you go south
i'll respond to him as well double whammy you can be the new shinobi but not crazy
the plot is not dolls mom they're action figures
rectified with just a line or two you're just supposed to take everybody out their word and
it's all tell and no show the plot is as convoluted as it is because the plot had to be written around
several pre-existing action scenes like i said at the beginning of the video they think of the
action scenes first then they assemble a plot there's nothing necessarily wrong with starting
with something and working for it all i mean what how else do you even like i said man so the
longest and greatest stories that i'm aware of start with an idea specific idea and you build
everything around it i mean the inspiration for lord of the rings was one word from like an old
norse poem well no i mean it's just like it could be anything it's it's really one thing that i
really don't like about the way that people writing and storytelling is ideas like ideas are cheap
it's execution that's most important i mean execution's everything everything do you guys
know about like the writing prompts subreddit where basically people just post writing prompts
and then people can try and write stories out of them so the idea of like uh you live in a world
where we brought this up before but just the premise is that the reaper is an actual person
in the world who cannot be killed and has a job of killing people it's already been done in loads
of things already like i said it's just different executions i'm being nice and vague point being
is that uh pretty pretty write the idea before someone takes it go um it's copyright trademark
free enterprises the point is you can execute that idea in a billion ways uh but it's still
a writing prompt just like you wake up in a world where everybody's thoughts are written on them
like there's like something that falls around everything they think is on there it's like how
does that do anything you're like i don't know everybody i think the key takeaway is i'm not sure
the book series is called but there was a book series that was written because the author was
dead to do it because it was a bad idea he's like i dare you to write a book about this and
then he did and it's good from what i hear and it's like you can take the worst idea and you can
do something with it it will be a lot harder but like the ideas are cheap and everybody keeps
recording the idea i mean what if what if douglas adams tried to pass off hitchhiker's guy to the
galaxy's like serious mama right exactly you know this is like uh there needs to be more appreciation
of the idea that you go this is actually hard to do if someone went okay i want a skydiving sequence
where a guy saves another guy from dying i want it to lead into a sequence where there's like a
heart chase bike chase blah blah blah and i want to lead that into a sequence with two aeroplanes
blah blah doing thing it's like can you make me a story that has all of them intertwined for good
reason you'd be like i'll try and then you're like so what did they come out with was it bad
was it good it's like it was really good i don't think we should be shitting on them for that i
think we should be like good job guys you found a way to justify the things you want
yeah in fact i would say that if you started with action scenes and somehow found a way to tie
you've put in the hard work yeah you put it in the work that's all it is is when you're writing
you have to work for those great moments reminds me of the um just go with their first draft
there's the forced diversity thing we're talking about when we said like what if they had it forced
but it ended up good we'd be like it would still be forced but then you would end up with good
content which is our example with shawl shank redemption right i guess um in terms of mass effect
is a series that seems the its main point is that when a bunch of diverse people work together with
a single goal they can achieve besides that's like the running theme of mass effect and a key
difference is that this is the artist versus a producer the idea of forced diversity not being
the artist's intention from the get-go you know what i mean so like the action here was always
what does it serve you know what i mean what's the point yeah it's not it's one of those it's not
necessarily a bad idea but you know it's cynical what i'm suggesting is that if you had a writer
who has the mission impossible movie and then someone's like i want an action scene where
there's a guy underwater trying to struggle to breathe and you're like that's not in my
movie and you go do it anyway that would be bad but if if the artist himself was like i want to
see with that happens halfway through how do i fit this in then it's on him to try and make it work
yeah it's not good because of it it's good despite it it could be used to work with with it like
it's not like it's going to necessarily get in the way you have to work to make it happen it's not
just the pieces aren't just going to fall together i guess though uh you could look at an example
like batman b superman there was definitely shio and if you're there and um it shows because that
like we want the justice league in here i'd say the same for age of ultron as well
yeah age of ultron is another good example um because they had all the setup for the infinity
stones and everything came afterwards and you know that that was like a million boxes to take
in that movie and we've even pointed out that with captain marvel in um the rumor that the
directors and the writers didn't really want her to be involved so that's a little bit irksome
i'm not surprised that i'm not surprised that all of that would be true well like we were talking
about it before but there was a rumor that uh some cast member specifically elizabeth ulcer
isn't happy that captain marvel is going to become like the center stage main character
yeah it's like you spent all this time and all this work creating all these things that work
together and then someone else just shows up and they're like yeah well fuck all that here's your
new leader well like the thing is i love spider-man but if spider-man suddenly just came the main
character right away i would have a problem with it even though i'm personally biased in favor of
spider-man because he's not beating the bullet i was gonna say uh bringing a comment if we talked
about this or not but i love the idea that they're building spider-man and the mcu up
he's he starts out as being kind of crap it's still powerful and he's gonna eventually evolve
into being probably one of the most powerful avengers in the entire group well they picked
a young guy that's what i mean is he can stick around for many movies he's probably happy to tie
himself to spider-man and the same thing with brie larson yeah which she's already the most
powerful avenger and she's only just finished her introduction yeah where did she go it's like what's
her up i mean who was a match for her and and if if if she can only be a match against
avenger level threats then that's like what's the point of even watching movies max thanos leaves
like call me if you need me again it's like thanks i really hope they don't do that captain
marvel didn't earn her power absolutely she got she she got ghost spilled on her yeah
yeah let's not let's not go too far off topic there let's let's go back listen all right look
no if you go to sleep tonight and you say i can't believe they ruined the plot of captain marvel
as you lay in bed tonight re-evaluate your life
uh anyway back to how mission impossible fall out is it really good home and rethink your life you
want to go home and rethink your life onto those scenes that's what they did for rogue nation and
that's what i thought they had done with this movie because of how messy it is but apparently
the writer director approached the script with a different method this time around how about the
script as a writer are you like writing around the action as opposed to just a through line of
the story uh on the last movie a lot of it we came up with the action first and then found a story
that strung all that together on this one we started with character and emotion and we almost
it was almost like we took the action and put it on a post-it note and put it off to one side and
let it find its way into the story so he was so you misrepresented him you misrepresented the
that's you totally lied about what oh i i hesitate to say this in fairness i hesitate to say that
don't worry i'm going to pull it back if i need to he's going to because i remember this bit he's
going to move on to say that it's it's a distinction without a difference the idea of um wait the idea
of creating a story uh with action first and then stringing it together versus creating a story and
then putting the action in later he's he's going to say that that's the same fucking thing
no it's not it's not it's the exact opposite yeah and this is let's let's let it play out let's
let us play until he makes a point you would have to be a very talented almost person who is this
person well who is this person what is this youtuber okay um ren's reviews you are the worst youtuber
i might have ever seen not because you're bad at editing and not because you're a liar like jack
and eric or jack and yeah jack and eric i was forgetting their names um because at least they're
just they're idiots you're well no they're liars you're an idiot you're one of the worst youtubers
i've ever seen this is one of the worst videos i've ever watched maybe he is autistic well he
definitely looks autistic i mean look at that profile picture he's got look like he looks like
quinton but with down syndrome let him say what i think he looks like a very oh my god he looks like
if they made a movie about like the origin story of kurt sanders he would play a young he would
play a young kurt sanders as he has he puts together i wonder if he does i wonder if you'll
still want to come on to this show yeah so genuinely looks like a baby kurt sanders
not only that but it's the guy standing in the back is that hawkeye
uh where when are we talking about jeremy renner is in yeah not in this one though because of
affinity war yeah jeremy renner was too busy uh his point being in it
you know tag's not very good i don't think it's very fun oh i thought it was a fun movie there
were a few scenes that i liked with slow motion kind of like oh let's you know it's kind of
interesting but like mostly i didn't find it right you're not you're not gonna hear me saying it was
a good movie i just thought it was fun um yeah no it's a nice whole concept yeah 55 of audience is
like no it was a dad comedy listen tag is the most divisive film of our generation
move aside star wars 55 of people liked it which means that there's clearly a division between
those who liked tag and those who did not like i was just said i'm not going on efap because rags
called me kurtlesanders oh man i've got all this fan why do you think that's an insult you should
call them a massive kurtlesanders massive kurtlesander you know it's okay to imply i might be
autistic but don't you dare compare me to a potential hypothetical young kurtlesander
oh he says ribbit like a frog i really like this one that's uh that's some real
i'll pop it on the screen though
but yeah this guy i mean he's got to be one of the worst media analysis i've seen yes but maybe
not the worst youtuber i was gonna say because he's awful at this i still think jack would trump
this because he's malicious towards a person as opposed to a product it's still a degree jack is
also an idiot he's triggered by like the npc meme so listen could we change your mind with a bucket
of delicious crispy fried chicken i got freaky he's not laughing like this is serious business
sorry what i
i love the little frog it's so cute it's a really great drawing i really like that it looks like
it looks like she looks like what that that little anime is it chin chan or that that anime that
really that that um that anime no no no no no here let me you guys know uh
the crayon you shin chin
in the in the discord thing i dude i don't know what that is you know okay
shin chin how do you know about this rags i just know about i i don't know how i know
but i know about it free was silent because he was eating fried chicken
oh man you know it's funny you said that because uh i had no that was a few days ago so damn it
ruined the meme uh well yeah uh this video's bad but the degree of bad i wouldn't say it's
the worst one you know like it's it's bad but you know well the way he misrepresents things
let him completely gets things wrong he can talk plot holes that aren't even there yeah this is what
i mean it's one of the worst representations of media i will agree this is honestly kind of like
if yms made a vision yeah he's quaking of this the writer are you like writing around action as
opposed to just the through line of the story uh on the last movie a lot of it we came up with
the action first and then found a story that strung all that together on this one we started
with character and emotion and we almost it was almost like we took the action and put it on a
post-it note and put it off to one side and let it fade off into the story so i honestly don't
see how that's any different by this post-it note logic they had already predetermined what the
action scenes were going to be they already had uh i would infer from that yeah like well no they
they literally said that they like we don't well to me to me this is like uh you know you write
down a bunch of ideas you're like all right we'll put that to the side and then we'll come back to
those ideas and see if we can work with them i can't i'm looking at this shot right now and
i'm like i cannot believe that tom cruise learned to fly out oh the problem here is we don't know
how many action scenes they started with on those post-it notes we don't know what the process was
specifically like were they like okay we can fit in this one this one this one but we can't fit in
this one this one this one like maybe that was the process um we don't know that like if you have
let's just say my storyline is i go to fringy's house shoot him and then run to like america shoot
wolf and then run back to my house um and we have action scenes like a submarine battle
i'd be like how do we get that in there like well maybe when i kill fringy i'm i'm getting chased
by the the police or whatever and i need to find a secret way and i have a connection and whatever
that gets me a chance to go into a submarine like can we make that a bit more you know you need a
bit of character and background to make that seem more natural but my point is that it seems
completely impossible then you get a good writer and they're like oh i can actually get this in here
for you which is what i would expect happened with this question mark yeah i just don't but i mean
regardless of the method it was effective whatever they did yeah that's the problem with this is that
he's concluded it's ineffective already and now he's trying to find the reason for it but it's
like but it was effective see how that's any different by this post-it note logic they had
already predetermined what the action scenes were going to be they already had them written out it's
the same exact thing if they have so it's not the same thing because if you had submarine battle
airplane battle and underground battle and then i'm like what story can we make to fit this i'm
like i don't know yeah these are events these are events not results southpaw pointed out there's
at least one action scene they filmed that's not in the movie oh yeah you can actually tell that
from his clips in this video there's you know when they land on the pallet building from the
parachute we cut to them being down on the ground and they're looking around after they've gone in
but in the a lot of these shots they're shown like rappelling across the rooftop under the in
the building as if they're trying to get past like they're doing something action-packed there but
it didn't make it into the movie um unless he's referring to something else but i know that that
didn't happen at least and oh yeah that's what he's talking about sorry he said the grand play
um so yeah it's just a weird point but we're arguing against it when it doesn't even matter
even if he was right because the film is not what he said it is anyway they had already predetermined
what the action scenes were going to be they already had him written out it's the same exact
thing if they had started with the plot first and let the action happen organically in the story
without knowing what happened which includes action scenes like i don't even see how it's
doable that way well i think the fact that you would have to tell people and they would be
surprised at the fact that they built it around action scenes that in and of itself is like well
most people wouldn't have even assumed that it was probably built around action scenes you know
they would have the idea of like okay so a guy who's dog gets killed but they're like all right
we'll do it here we'll do it here um i'm sure that they do it for superhero movies too like
what yeah that's the interesting part i wonder if this guy likes any movies that were built that
way and if he would find that to be what would his conclusion be well the writers made it weird
well with their exception or i don't know like i don't see how you could reconcile it i mean i
imagine there's a lot of iconic scenes that were thought of before the full movie was made like the
australia vista baby thing might have been thought of before they started writing it and they were
like how do i fit this in there uh get away from her you know from aliens might have been early
the funny thing is you can take it the other direction you could be like what if they weren't
even known to happen seconds before they did it because it was improv is that bad too oh yeah
like the the drax like i i got one for you why is gamora was that improv yeah oh wow really yeah
that was a great line i know this guy's penmanship is poor i mean he did that on
what i thought was paint and he printed it out right he was doing it at the beginning
i think oh it's a joke supposed to be that this i think he's trying to say that it's almost
childish how simplistic the idea is like tom cruise stops the bad guys every every child is
how simplistic his mind is because it's on the it's on the post-it notes too any any film could
get your answer like what what is the shorshank redemption guy gets out of prison yo what is uh
there's so many string seeds of that video the film so many string seeds yeah like the scene
when uh you know he gets told am i being of two so all that that was a string scene that didn't
string scene man this is refreshing to be defending a movie instead of telling me it's
like with the plot first and let the action happen organically in the stories it wouldn't
have been the convoluted mess that it should have been a yellow sticky note and he just concludes
it wouldn't have been it wouldn't have been a convoluted mess if not for this it's like it
could still be a convoluted mess whether or not this was their intention because
writing's a little more complicated than whether or not you base it on action or not
but come on is think about it chris mcquarrie was tasked with giving all five
someone in the chat just said it's childishly simple but also impossible to follow
it's not i don't know if he i mean i i made that as a criticism of him so he's not directly said
the film is simple or anything but he's definitely implying that it's yeah he's implying that tom cruise
stops the bad guys so it's simple but it's not because you said it's convoluted like you can't
be both well i think he's saying it's convoluted because of its attempt to string action together
he blames it on that like it's it's simple to start you string the action together and it
becomes complicated as a result which he didn't even think that would happen if that's all you did
not yeah not necessarily you know the fact we're trying to discover this is implies like a failure
of communication here oh well as far as i'm aware because we did that with with the video
obviously and his response to it was that we just don't understand like terms and stuff
remember like we don't understand what game feel means you should come on and talk to us about it
what is game feel what does that mean you don't you don't know what that means are you stupid are
you stupid one of the top comments on his response i think was something like wow they need every
word explained to them well when you make up words like game feel yeah well it's just when
you have a word that has multiple meanings it'll be valid in the sentence like tactile you know the
the the famous what is it you could say buffalo like 11 times and it's a valid sentence
right yeah that that's grammatically correct because buffalo means a whole fucking bunch
of different things you can buffalo somebody a buffalo is like an animal it's a state it's a
place it's an action like this is all these different things let me let me find out what
is the shortest language in the the shortest grammatically correct sentences hi
yes no i'll post this is this is grammatically correct i'll post it in chat as well
buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo
and i think the idea is that buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo like you you would
actually if you just have to swap out the words for different things but it's a it's a sentence
that uses correct grammar it's often used an example of how homonyms and homophones can be
used to create confusing hard to understand sentences so uh how people are putting buffalos
in the chat but yeah my point is that when you have a word that can mean multiple things
i'd like you to tell me what you mean but especially when it's a word that is not commonly
used or might outright be made up you know like when i say oh this is a gamey game if somebody
was like what does that mean i'd be like okay let me explain because it's a thing i made up
or not that i made it up but what does gamey game mean to somebody who doesn't know what video games
are about you know and then you would explain it you wouldn't be like oh what why don't you just
understand it you know it's like dude just be clear like if somebody doesn't know what you're
talking about yeah but that makes your video longer and everyone knows the long man is bad
because remember guys there's no such because you can edit it means that you should even if
it means you lose something in the process wouldn't have been the convoluted mess that it is
think about it chris mquarrie was tasked with giving we did think about it that's why we like it
something to do at all times then he's got to fit in a total of
10 action scenes into the story as organically as possible then he has to conclude the stop go back
go back i want to see what all of the action scenes were about it chris mquarrie was tasked
with giving all five main characters something to do uh yeah i think he dedicated things all right
so um so he separated the action scene with the helicopter and the fight scene on top of the cliff
even though i would consider them to be part of the same scene because it's uh it's i i can accept
it okay right but what about the the car chase he's got several different car chases like if you
he's got the motorcycle chase he's got and the car chase and uh and the scene with the the truck
as well as what he's got there um again i could give him that i don't mind the yeah there's a lot
of action in the movie it's mission impossible but this is all strung together correctly so i'm
fine with it but i mean some of these are like only 30 seconds long like the one with the white
widow that that's like 30 seconds yeah he thinks that i don't know that's bad
that's what i don't know i mean like i don't fit in a total of 10 action scenes into the story
as organically as ten action scenes is a bad thing that's the funny thing if you told me i'd
be like oh is that all right yeah like is that bad he has to count ten action scenes in my action
movie oh that's like a villain in my plot it's no that's just you get that out of here then he's
got to fit in a total of tom cruise what are you doing on your own mission into the story as
organically as possible then he has to conclude the storyline with tom cruz's ex-wife because
that's what tom wanted then he's got to tie it wouldn't matter it works what's the you say these
things they're problems so tom wanted a nice moment of character oh it looks like he's got
some insight then into what makes a good film it's almost like tom cruz cares about the role
man can you believe that they crammed 26 letters into this alphabet
and i heard that before they made the alphabet they had 26 letters prepared to go into it
so they didn't even come up with it naturally it was just guys we need we need an alphabet but
we really we have and we have ideas for 26 different letters
man i how do we build an alphabet around them i heard that before they made an alphabet they
just drew everything out so all all the language was show don't tell oh which is not good
or at least it's good when i want it to be good you know the um i guess i'm competitive to point
out he's actually missed out the simon peg and uh thingy fight in the house ah so there's actually
11 flight scenes oh it's even better let's just say i really like that one hey so i hear
something i saw on twitter um a woman sustained injuries from a jaguar attack because she climbed
over the barrier to take a photo of the jaguar what was she thinking is that natural selection
oh i saw a video of uh someone that um climbed over like a fence to see the lions and the lions
like ripped him apart well i remember seeing a video that was in like a chinese um it's one of
those big wildlife areas where you can drive in your car but you're not supposed to get out
and the person got out and was just standing there and then a tiger jumps out oh yeah i see that
yeah yeah it's like like what what are you doing like you completely deserved that
the difference between inside the car and outside the car is that inside the car there are no tigers
yes by the way the um the shortest uh the shortest sentence in the english language is go
what about high what about a no high doesn't wait oh wait right a isn't well you can say
hi is it say hi but it's not a grammatically correct you know you need a subject
what if you're just saying hi to somebody does go have a subject yeah it's you yeah go
you go or me go yes the go how do you know but again again how can high be directed at a person
it is but that doesn't make the that doesn't make him so why is it not a sentence well or why is
it not a subject if you're going up to someone with the with a purpose to say a thing to them
that'd make him an interrupt object indirect object if it's being done to something else
i don't understand the difference
listen whenever you're whenever you do an imperative like uh you don't imperative sentence right
uh it's you the subject in the sentence go is you right yes you are commanding somebody
which means in the sentence you don't have to explicitly state
to whom you are commanding it is known as you understood which makes go the shortest sentence
what about no hi no nowhere what about you no an ejaculation is not a full sentence
oh what about oh an ejaculation is not a full sentence i know oh question mark
that's not a sentence that's not a full sentence that's also three is what about
or is in like just the letter o you know like how in no no no no oh oh the word no but i mean you
can even it's not a full sentence it's just a fraction well if someone says i don't know
something to the effect of did you know that i don't know bob killed mike and you're like oh
or oh like you're like it's a question like you're like the implication is not a complete
grammatically correct sentence why because that's how the rules of english work come on you can't
do that you got it you got to actually do the actual thing you can't just say that's not how
it works i mean i i'm inclined to believe you but i'm just saying it's how it works regardless
of whether or not i can explain it water is wet
it's way longer than go you know we we're not even halfway guys that's actually true we need
to start letting him talk more i guess which is i'm sorry about that but you know into the story
as organically as possible then he has to conclude the storyline with tom cruz's ex-wife because
that's what tom wanted then he's got to tie everything up in a nice neat little bow so that
everybody can go home happy and he had to do it all within an hour and 20 minutes i mean you already
admitted everyone doesn't go home happy because the apostles are still around so a bit of a
contradiction the story was yeah before he even started writing it but before i move on chris
mcquarrie also said something in the previous clip that i'd like to touch on on this one we
started with character and emotion we started with character and emotion wow that's terrible
gotta be a bold face lie because i wouldn't be calling people a liar oh wait oh dear yeah buddy
so how do we justify that this film was made with character of mine first well the clear theme of
getting ethan hunt in many situations where he has to decide on what he values personally
be it x amount of lives over x amount of other lives uh the fact that bing reyms has to deal
with the fact that saving his own well being saved by tom cruz means that a bunch of people
might have to die and by a bunch i mean like millions nothing for simon peg from what i remember
really rebecca ferguson's character goes through a decent chunk of decision making she has to decide
if her own life is worth more than tom cruz's and so she saves him and
used to conflict with him until they work together uh you i don't see how there's no
argument for it i think there's plenty to work with here and in addition to that someone in chat
said that i'm wrong which they are wrong to say that i am wrong and i will explain
because this is important and it needs to be understood because i don't want the chat getting
uppity all right you don't want the chat calling you out of so oof oof said you were totally wrong
about nope i'm not actually so rags uh you are wrong pie works because you were referring to
someone you as understood that is incorrect because a complete sentence needs two things
it must have a subject and a verb form a complete idea you high what is the verb in the sentence you
hi now you can get back to me and let me know what the verb is and you hi i'm i'm
i'm sorry i have no idea what the actual i'm going to guess that you i'm going to guess that you
cannot do this right i'm correct now i don't know you could make the case that to tie go
is is the sentence b right that would be the closest thing that i can think of that you could
maybe make a contention because being is technically a verb you can be
but many would say that it doesn't work because it doesn't form a complete idea
but i don't know rags this kind of reminds me of that time when you were talking shit
about resident evil too for being too easy when you could just bump up the difficulty
and then when we asked you about that you said it never occurred to you to just bump up the
difficulty no i just didn't really just really didn't really care to so how can you criticize
the game for being too easy if you had it on a low difficulty sounds to me like you couldn't get
me on the sentence thing trying to go back to an i don't know sometimes the chat has a point
the chat didn't have a point the chat sometimes has a point thus we're lumping in bad points with
points i don't know made some bad points so in um in conclusion goes the shortest sentence
in english high is not um yeah so let's continue this video uh apparently robot heads who we're
planning on getting to guest on here before we we played this video where you're talking about the
lightsabers and tlj the fight if you remember it's quite funny he's he's currently having a long
argument with jack on twitter because the way i understand it is that robot head posted a picture
of mark hamill and harrison ford hugging i'm not sure what the context is and he said um
this was the moment that we could have had and it was taken not only from us but from the the actors
as well and then i believe someone criticized him saying you know oh that would be crap it would just
be fanservice if that's what we got and his response was something like aren't all films
just fanservice is not some magical idea that they're made they're made to satisfy the fans
or whatever else which could use a little bit of exploration as a statement but you know exactly
what he's getting at with star wars specifically and uh jack quote tweet well he screenshotted all
of that and made a tweet saying that um law over substance i think or something like that he
screenshotted it rather than quote tweeted it so that he wouldn't oh well i don't this is jack
we're talking about i'm pretty sure he wouldn't he would have added robot head himself just to get
more controversy but um he's uh he he's he's said the thing of law over substance as if the
implication is the old people like us prefer is just you know everything's accurate instead of
you know meaningful and they're arguing apparently and i just i don't want anything to do with it
because it's just like get out of that vortex speaking of i kind of want to debate jack and
do better than smud boy did i'll i'll succeed where he didn't come on jack nobody wanted their
conversation it was just a mess come on jack so you want you want one of us i'll do it so bring me
on who cares and chat said i can be the shortest correct sentence no because we've been over this
a sentence needs a subject and a verb there is no verb and i if you are talking with somebody
i doubt that this other person will care if you respond with i that you didn't form a correct
sentence because you're still getting across a complete thought to them in that context of that
scenario you still need a verb for it to be a complete grammatical sentence there's no verb
and i there's only a letter and i and it's the letter i so um yeah i'm happy to go back to
mission impossible we all good no mission impossible is trying to get some of these
people to understand that this is like first grade stuff now children yes mrs drenchville
what does a sentence need and he's a subject and a verb oh fuck i was just gonna say i'll
come back to that in a second sorry i just saw that um because someone added me and yeah so
you know um bob vids is one of kind of like he rips into cinema sins and he made a video
on why cinema sins is so bad it's interesting stuff and i was actually considering trying to
get him on here but so fringy what do you think of this criticism of captain marvel um how is
captain marvel able to communicate with his space friends using cables she got from a radio shack
uh man you know it's stupid but i guess the explanation would be that they're sitting in
her like suit that she uses to do it i was about to say i would be like i his suit does a lot of
crazy shit i think that maybe if she the implication is that she had a night to do it she combined
wires from the radio shack with her suits technology and she did it listen her suit
it's very very simple the explanation and this is all canon by the way the explanation is that
her suit is made out of waconda balls i mean i was about to say i agree that it's convenient i'm just
saying that there's precedent set so if the if the waconda balls can't save people in future that
would now be a problem because they're established as being able to you know i think it's dumb but
it's still a thing that happens um bob vids put out a tweet saying in yms's review of captain
marvel he says how is captain marvel able to communicate with his space friends using cables
she got from a radio shack and he said after that i've been avoiding his videos before but now i'm
officially done with yms who said that bob vids which is interesting i mean i haven't i haven't
watched yms's quickies in ages because they're just not they're awful they're just like uh i
don't feel like i've learned anything or that i see you can really useful information you can
apply most of his quickies to another movie and it will make just as much sense yeah i mean if you
look at the if you look at the video he did on mission impossible fallout he makes up some
weird snare what was it with like i said yeah he said that if only the person had a gun then
closing the gate on them wouldn't have done anything and i still don't really know what
he's talking about what gate are you talking about because it's not the elevator scene because
there is no gate he had a gun anyway but unless he's talking about then you got to ask which
character is he talking about he just it was one of his worst videos he's made yeah uh anyway yeah
i challenge you to a huan on huan battle do you really want to do that yes huan on huan
people go go go at jack so i want huan on huan make sure you don't like if he's gonna be like
he's gonna ask if his efap related so you have to make that clear you would you actually be on
like his channel well that's the implication of a huan on huan what could be your channel
well yeah you can do it on both we can both stream it huan on huan come on everyone huan on huan
all right everyone had him everyone had him huan on huan uh he's referring to when ethan
closes a barred door on the apostles in the church i think um oh yeah that's right it's
the implication that if the apostles had guns they would have been able to stop ethan
i'm guessing uh i guess that might be valid um weirdly there's a couple of things that
come to my mind that haven't been brought up in this video at all which is i find kind of
interesting um it's like tackling things that don't exist instead of things that are like
interesting to think about like i wonder if um the uh the resident mission impossible fallout man
has anything to say about that you know the idea that if the apostles had guns they could have
stopped ethan i can't believe there are still people in the chat who are arguing that a sentence
it does it like it literally does i just don't i don't have anything to say about it i just like
let people come to a conclusion is the sentence high invalid even though it's not like the fine
invalid well right so if i say high dot as in full stop what is that i would understand what
you mean but it wouldn't be a correct grammar well i mean but it's a sentence though isn't it
it's incorrect it's like more of a sentence is a group of words that are put together to
mean something a sentence is the basic unit of language which expresses a complete thought
uh well this isn't enough this is uh gonna say well this takes forever to get through like we
can't even we got a we got a whole other half of a video to do i'm not saying like i'm saying go for
it it's just uh do you want to do it now i don't know man like this has been gone for like five
hours well i mean yeah i i'm not gonna say no if you guys want to do it i've just got nothing to add
it was like i it is almost nine o'clock here um oh you're you're right by the way i would address
your responses but you're just wrong i've already said this like this is a rule in english a complete
grammatically correct sentence these we have a you understood cool that that's a rule in english
for an imperative sentence yeah this is what i found so the complete sentence first it begins
with a capital letter in addition and mark most importantly the complete sentence must contain at
least one main clause each main clause contains an independent subject and verb and expresses a
complete thought so yes that is a requirement this is like i don't like i can't believe i'm
trying to all right this is like first grade stuff like one of the most basic fundamental
rules you learn about english is that a sentence needs what children and then all the kids respond
because all every kid in the class knows this i don't i don't remember the subject as i do no
that's wrong let's go uh could it be uh it could be something else though that's too low it could
be um like you could make an argument for b yeah b is one you could what about it huh
what about it or what's the verb
hmm yeah that one wouldn't work then uh it's hard isn't it like there's so many i think someone said
do but no no because do is well then you would have to say do x because if you just say do people
will be like yeah someone would say that it doesn't form a complete idea well you could tell someone go
and as long as they they have gone i mean um i'm pretty much convinced yeah if rags is an
english teacher i'd be like okay mr riggs now go do your homework the fact that you highlight it
it's like go practice your curse your letters and your type of phone graph the fact you highlight
it's like a great one thing is to me i'm like that's probably why i don't have this off hand
because i wouldn't have remembered this i just would have asked rags verbs are implied
and the thing is i'm actually this is all just memory stuff um i my brother is an english major
he does a lot of this stuff he's the anal person yeah he's like did you know that
anal person huh yeah um me too please i this is just stuffy i didn't i didn't i didn't i thought
this was common knowledge that is sub that it probably it possibly is i don't really like all
fringy but over here in america society is crumbling barbarism is imminent
i can't think of uh any instance where i needed to know that just because i can't remember the
last time in my life that was brought up so i guess it's just you learn something new every
day or relearn something old every day i guess it's just interesting because okay is apparently
not a sentence anymore it's something else like you get like like it's like when people say like
what about high and there's no subject there you're directing it towards someone that doesn't mean
that the sentence itself has a has you as the subject in the sentence it's just a contextual
thing right which would make the sentence in a silly way it's all interesting stuff though
isn't it the more you know so back to mission impossible fallout i did the map and let me
tell you something this movie spends one hour 13 minutes and 24 seconds yeah i don't really agree
with how you you judge what an exposition scene is oh apparently he understands what establishing
shots are so that's nice he doesn't distinguish them between that and strings and what what is
fluff what is the fluff what what it counts as fluff and we've already seen in this video he's
after after his whole like because tom cruise wanted a scene with uh his wife i mean he probably
counts that as fluff and i would not call that fluff but like what what is fluff let's see let's
see if he qualifies on exposition establishing shots meaningless fluff oh this is meaningless
when they're searching for john lark it's meaningless fluff
wonderful is his is his argument that they could just cut to finding him and then you'd be like
apparently they find him off screen
i can't be pleased sir there's nothing they can do right this is i like this scene doesn't matter
because it's setting up something that's really tense it's like yeah you're gonna have to go
talk to but like you're gonna have to pretend to be the guy who's dead fluff oh you have to like
impromptu role play you know roto the moment he leaves uh the shy it's the moment he drops the
ringing it's fluff good just cut to that kind of the point of the movie isn't it
degree wolf good don't make me angry that's over half the movie yeah it is over half the movie if
you just judge everything as those things also spins i mean yeah you can define these things
into existence i agree you know this video spends 45 minutes and 30 seconds with meaningless
fluff and 20 seconds of establishing shots to be fair to action movies though action scenes
get really tough and time consuming to get right so a whole movie that's nothing but action scenes
damn son the fact that there are 11 action scenes in this film is pretty impressive it reminds me of
when jack did this with my infinity wall video they just time it and call it a thing and it's
like i guess that's just true then that's how that works in seconds on tension building and action
debate me jack leaves us with a measly little 11 minutes and 12 seconds for actual that you had an
issue with he said actually he said actually yeah but that was earlier in the video just earlier
isn't like a minute ago he was come listen let the past die kill it if you have to okay
that's meaningless i want i want to kill the last four hours of my life please the last
shadai four hours do you know do you know i like actual meaningful character interactions
not not as fake meaningful character actual yeah actual meaningful character interactions
in 12 seconds for actual meaningful character interactions i can put that in gedel but people
be like no one would say that no they would the people totally say that oh but they would
actual meaningful character moments is that what he says
character interactions sorry gotta get it right this
direction and fun banter and i was incredibly generous with what i considered to be a meaningful
you're not generous the opposite of that you're in generous that's your in generous
full character interaction i even counted the 42nd opening dream sequence and the 30 seconds
was about to say it made no attempt to build up its characters right after saying it spent 11
minutes doing so so let's keep an eye out for that i included little jokes like this
why is he running in circles like i said i was very generous except for the 11 minutes where it
did apparently sorry this dude's an idiot this dude is literally this movie made absolutely no
attempt to build up its characters ultimately it's a story about people it's very human yes a very
human story indeed oh i feel so so sorry about people who saw this before they saw them
bought it client sinker imagine all the people who saw this video and as a result
didn't go and watch this amazing film well luckily that's a very small number
yeah everyone in chat go see go see go see the best movie of 2018 yeah i feel like it should be
sad now don't say anything mean to this dude he's just wrong just say something very passively
agree to um but yeah because this is bad video this is terrible i hate this movie is is a laundry
list of exposition that exists purely to help you understand i made this point several times
without qualifying it's going to ignore you and the overly complex plot and set up the next action
scene said this already isn't this like the thing he said like five times now i don't know the whole
it's just a string action he's just explaining it in different ways i suppose you know if tom cruise
hadn't broken his ankle that scene in the catacombs where alec baldwin died would have been
completely different they were set to shoot that scene within a couple of days and christopher
didn't even have that scene written out yet they didn't even have a location scouted out yet
tom he's getting his ankle broken gave chris a couple extra weeks that just makes it all the
more impressive not highlighting an issue here he's highlighting someone doing something great
under restraint yeah something worthwhile to point out is that films do change as their shot
absolutely they don't necessarily stick to the because things just change sometimes it's updated
on the fly this is this is what happens when you're making a movie it's like yeah this was
a great piece of dialogue but it was improvised they didn't plan that you know movies are made
with like hundreds of people and millions of dollars over the course of weeks and months
like how can you expect it all to be the same as the script this has to go both ways right so you
go um if there's a movie where there's just no scene to explain some guy like he doesn't have
a gun next scene he has a gun and then someone goes ah well you see in production when we were
filming the previous scene the prop gun was broken like it was in half and we were waiting
for anyone to come in so if you could just ignore it you know that's just something that we had to
do it's like no i can't ignore it i'm sorry that happened but that's now damaged your film and in
the reverse if they cgi the gun in and it's seamless and then we go and someone goes ah
they didn't actually have the gun in that scene so that's bad you know it's not bad they fixed it
like if you could cgi out a mustache you could cgi in a gun exactly so what i'm suggesting is
that it's not an excuse either way it's not a reason for the film to be bad if it happened
unless it affects the overall product the fact that he's like this scene wasn't written and it
wouldn't have been made this way if not for breaking his ankle i'm like okay why were you
late to class timmy he's like oh my alarm clock didn't go off well you're still late
you're still fucking late you little shit now go up and i want you to write 1000 times
on the board what do you need to make a complete sentence and in the same vein regs what if the
guy's alarm went off an hour early and he came in what he thought was late and the school's like no
you're now early and it's like oh but i thought i was late so it doesn't matter you really ignorance
of the law is an excuse point being to make a mistake on the set you can make a mistake with
writing and have restrictions whatever it doesn't matter it's about what comes out in the end
it's funny because ignorance of the law can technically be an excuse uh not an excuse but
a mitigating factor if you didn't know you were doing something illegal then you don't have guilty
mind so it's funny that you said that yeah it depends on the crime is depends it depends
you walk on you walk upside down don't tell me about your backwards way no but what i mean is
like if it would murder okay well it doesn't matter like it's still your thing we can trust
the problems it depends i mean yeah it might put you off especially a lot of times yeah well
that's what i'm saying it's not necessarily that be guilty of the crime but uh guilty mind is a
important fact but yeah i would always bring i always bring it up in court because it might
like get you off the hook a little bit yeah yeah that can always if they the point is they can
charge you even if you didn't know and it would still stick oh yeah no that's not what i know
yeah yeah yeah that's a couple of days and christopher didn't even have that scene written
out i didn't know i couldn't kill people they didn't even have a location scouted out yet
tom dismissed getting his ankle broken gave chris a couple extra weeks to get that scene together
while tom's ankle was healing the entire movie was just sort of lit up on a mission impossible
one of these people up and kept running as well wasn't even looking he like he was he was hanging
off that ledge and he kicked off so hard he wasn't even looking where he was going behind him
and he landed on that platform up there and he kept running backwards yeah this impressive
higher movie was just sort of he's 56 mission impossible films they're not easy to make and i
tell everyone when we start out it's something that we're discovering the story as we go along
they actually started filming mission impossible fallout before they even had a finished screenplay
and it shows this movie so yeah it was amazing it doesn't show and that's what's amazing about it
literally doesn't show started without a screenplay and we would have to tell us everything we could
to figure out that's the thing i'm impressed i am not like oh it's bad it's like wow you guys
did really good if you didn't have a screenplay like yeah you see there's two kinds of movies
without a screenplay there's the hobbit trilogy and there's mission impossible fallout and that's
not even going into redrafts this is what i mean i'm impressed now even more so that they did this
without a redrafted complete script good job guys how did you make it that good keep doing this
racing towards production this movie starts without a screenplay yes and apparently this
has been a running theme since mission impossible four that's what happened on ghost protocol though
we had a lot of stuff and we weren't entirely sure where it was going
and he was brought in to solve it to put all the pieces of the story together currently he's good
with that yeah i don't know what can i say together that's how chris came to mission and
funnily enough ghost protocol is the movie that made me start losing interest in the franchise
a franchise that i once loved cobbling a story together as you go along is no way to make a movie
apparently it is evidently it was at least not one with a cohesive story or tangible characters
tangible characters tangible characters what do you mean tangible they exist
it's like that tactile bullshit yeah that's that's good i guess tangible characters
you know that you can reach out and touch
what a strange thing to say since there was no care or screen time put into developing the
characters you already said there were you wind up just not caring about them and as a result that
makes the action scenes less tense and less thrilling because if i don't care about the
characters if the screenwriter himself doesn't even seem to care about them then why would i
what jeez where are you getting these conclusions it's like he contradicts himself every couple
sentences yeah it's kind of yeah it's a lot of videos like he says that 11 minutes is dedicated
to characters and then he's like no time was dedicated to characters it makes sense if you
don't think about it well it's funny how he's criticizing somebody for not having a complete
when it sounds like he doesn't have one either even if you should do some redrafting
then why would i care about what happens to them it makes it nothing is at stake they were about
to get new and when your brain is on fire just trying to comprehend just what the hell is going
on in this movie that just here's how you drive the helicopter this one's you that probably is
what they're doing right now they're like this is how the scene's gonna go you'll do an ailer on
here enjoy the great stunt work like i want to when i'm still trying to piece together what just
happened 30 minutes ago and don't get me wrong the action scenes in this movie are good but as good
as the action scenes are they do have some issues that need to be talked about oh okay
the very first real action scene in this movie is incredible i would argue that this is the best
stunt in the movie at the very least it's the second best stunt behind the helicopter chase
i mean it took them an entire year of practice and planning just to make this
i'm glad they didn't plan i'm glad you're acknowledging this good thumbs up not possible
the behind the scenes for this is really quite fascinating and on its own this action scene is
tremendous but it's a little bit too exciting for its own good because after this scene there's
nowhere to go but down no that's not how it works what the bathroom scene happens five minutes
after that i suppose the bathroom scene's my favorite i think it's the best i love it i love
the fucking choreography but i also adore this scene i also adore the helicopter the idea that
if i rated them all in numbers and then it's like well i can only enjoy the highest number one
you know because the rest of them just aren't gonna live up to it that's not how that works
yeah the the car chase well the motorcycle scene and the helicopter scene were too fast
no no you the only meal that you will ever remember in your life is the best one and they're
all just you know why bother just die just die all of the action that comes after it apart from
the helicopter chase just doesn't live up to the level of excitement if you say so that this one
sounds they should have saved this stunt for much later on in the movie
but then four minutes after no beer went stun beer was done
this is yeah this is all too subjective to really he's like i feel like this one was the most
exciting oh he's like absolutely which is which is gonna make it easier for us to cycle through
it because it's just uh i like the motorcycle chase that was my favorite i'd like i like
uh so you know how in the movie with the the guy um the guy who they think is john like when they
sort of have to try and like put him down so that they can scan his face um after he got hit with
the laptop wouldn't it have been smart to just inject him anyway you know just in case would
are you criticizing the movie right now i'm saying like yeah that might be an instance where it's like
maybe they have a throwaway line for it what was it uh tom cruise goes where's the needle
and then they look around and then people bang on the door so they have to take him to the oh
yeah that's right yeah okay forget i said that yeah i was actually i mean you brought it up and
you thought about it which means they thought about it too this is yeah this is a great process though
isn't it it's like oh that's a problem though there's a throwaway line they fixed the problem
with a throwaway line you're like what's not a problem that's the joke
oh
rfc
i'm now tempted to change my cartoon character it it's his face it's his face i'm looking sucky
it says rfc and he's listening to a mixtape by fring daddy g
uh you have to change your profile picture now that's his it's his alter ego he's a he's an
animore he's even got the line down the middle of his he's even got the line i know it's like too
good free i i i have a question for you because i i told you i got high that one day and watched
every video you've made yeah what does 101 mean and oh that's 101 you know what 101 is like
you know you know how when you go to university economics 101 gender studies 101 it basically
means like the broadest possible overview of a subject well surely knows that and i said 101
because it's binary because it's it's yeah it's code because so with um oh with the letter in
the alphabet you see uh this is galaxy brain stuff right here that's why you don't get it yeah
yeah you know my frog brain is too big right he's embraced the froggo it just soaks up oxygen
so good man i know bailin is ridiculously talented oh it's even you know the one before that too
they're all so good i know we have some crazy good artists in our community
fringy i i really like this video you made a very long time ago where the first thing you
did when you opened up with it was um you said merry christmas assholes and i was like
oh you should just have that as your opener for every video from now
i can't remember that one i it was made in like 2014 yes when i was very like
yeah you you had like really terrible like gameplay that was super choppy i know because
uh i didn't know what i was i hate those videos i i love it keep doing it make videos
oh man you know you you're on froggo make more videos uh well you know mission impossible
this is a podcast called froggo and doggo
that'll be great this doesn't live up to the level of excitement that this one
they should have saved this stunt for much later on in the movie but then four minutes after the
halo jump we get a bathroom fight which to be fair is very well shot and very well choreographed
i really enjoy this scene but then six minutes later we get another you can't okay i really
enjoy this scene but we get another that was another really good one it's like what do you
that's not why did you use butt there yeah but normally implies like there's a caveat at the end
i mean let's let's let's let it happen later in the movie but there's another exciting action
scene i enjoyed was the thing and i couldn't stop smiling we can't there's no point encountering
this he's wrong from the premise that the best action scenes have to be at the end that's
not true well shot and very well choreographed i really enjoy this scene but then six minutes
later we get another i mean look at the fellowship of the ring club which again it's a solid little
fight scene but then stop saying they're good does it make sense minutes after that we get a long
take of tom cruz daydreaming yeah it's funny i never realized this was a long take but it's
that's part of what's so good about it the soundtrack as well it's fucking gorgeous which
i hope you mentions but we'll seven minutes after i'm so glad it's probably been negative
chase which then you said they cleared two more movies yes i'm so glad i'm so glad as well and
it's a i can't wait i believe that this movie's turned me into a person that's probably going to
go see the new one in the cinema yeah same with me i had never watched a mission impossible movie
before until this one and now i'm eager to see the sequels can we gotta see the other ones we
haven't seen yet they're still we can all watch them together well i've seen them but yeah i have
two for you we're the cool guys it's after that we get a long take of tom cruz daydreaming about
shooting cops seven minutes after that wow you fucking asshole all he's doing right now is there
are action scenes in the movie that take place after each other which then leads into a motorcycle
chase which then leads back into a car chase so as you can see there's no what is the best thing
yeah this sounds like a fucking awesome movie
this movie sounds great to where the action scenes even his dreams are action sequences
in regards to the story rogue nation had the same exact problem it's not a problem
you know the shitty sequence where he's on a plane be off with tom cruz dangling off of an
airplane which was easily the best stunt in that movie and after that it had nowhere to go
because how do you top that that should be the stunt that you end your movie with not starting
that's not you haven't proven this prove it prove that that's a true statement that the best
sequence should be at the end not the beginning yeah you know rags mentioned the fellowship of
the ring the movie starts off with a huge bombastic battle um in like i think the first or second age
whenever they went to fight mortar but then the battle at the end of the movie was far smaller
and more yeah it's kind of like the action centerpiece oh yeah oh yeah more
moria was way bigger than aim on hen but on hen was excellent a lot of people fight but just
because it's smaller doesn't mean it's worse like there's it's a more like that character-driven one
like that's where aragorn walks around and he faces down like a hundred or sort in front of
his face and it's like that is the manly hopefully you're gonna have to watch all three of them again
and i'm probably already going i do it several times a month anyway it's i may as well uh i was
gonna say the uh in the dark night a lot of people reference the opening action scene as their
favorite way of the joker's men are all taking down the place and they all start killing each
other one by one and like then you go well my favorite's probably the uh the car chase in the
mid part of the film which is i would argue it's a better stunt sequence than the end of the film
but that doesn't mean i don't understand this logic it hurts my brain and while we're talking
about rogue nation that movie also had a motorcycle chase and a car chase both of which were better
in context i can't you can only have one car chase ever okay but it was totally different context
what was happening is cars and he says they're better and i'm not sure that i agree with that
necessarily you know what does he mean better what does he mean what is that from regs from
the polls screen we just had that's just in fallout look motorcycles cars cars motorcycles
it's the same thing they just they sweet i want to see road nation it's got motorcycle
is it copy no you don't like it stop you should oh right this is one of the things
that cinema sins does all the time jays just highlighted is this movie that movie you just
you just say it's in another movie and that's a criticism apparently
so let's take a look at the motorcycle scene from rogue nation it's got some pretty good
stunt work just look how close tommy's knee gets to that ass whoa now this motorcycle chase wasn't
incredible but it was pretty solid what does that mean okay what does it mean it's not incredible
don't keep me signed up i don't don't take my name off the list i'm interested
it wasn't incredible but it was pretty solid okay
the first time i saw the motorcycle chase in fallout something felt off to me something
about it didn't feel genuine in watching it back i realized that a good chunk of the cars
that he whizzes past also animated or how the hell could he do this stuff oh he doesn't want to
die come on you're telling me that tom cruise didn't go on a motorcycle through a real active
city and almost get him yeah like this is the production company just they just phoned up the
paris police department and they said yeah we have this actor here he's just gonna fucking drive
around through traffic go the wrong way down the road jump off sidewalks and stuff hopefully he
won't die but we're gonna film it all um just just giving you guys a heads up don't arrest him
this is self-evidently not a point fun fact about uh fun fact about insurance on films yeah um
ghost protocol for ghost protocol his insurance company would let him climb the birch calipha so
he got another insurance company that would let him do it but you know even with that boss i mean
look tom cruise the lengths he goes to to make everything as practical as it can possibly be
is insane the fact that he tried to do this as practical as he could like he probably even said
oh he said no let's get root cause and i'm like no no no no tom no root cause we want to make more
movies well i can say it's psi he he learned how to fly a helicopter for this movie
i can't get over that no there was helicopters in the other ones so guys that a good chunk of the
cars that he whizzes past are also animated or or maybe cropped in during post however rogue nation
is also guilty of doing this but honestly rogue nations was better and i think i figured out why
they have this cgi stuff that's also in rogue nation okay it's already impressive enough that
tom himself is on the motorcycle the stunt loses its realism factor when it looks like he's just
whizzing you're slowing it down generated that's why i'm sorry i'm sorry yeah not to mention i mean
what the i've watched this movie twice now and at no point was not convinced by the cgi say this is
too subjective it's like what you noticed that the cars weren't real therefore you weren't immersed
okay yeah you slowed down the footage by a lot and then you were able to so uh you know and i
again i wasn't immersed in the battle the tanks and stuff because it's not real did you know the
Thanos isn't real by the way you know i think no way are you telling me that that was actually
josh brolin the whole time i'm telling you that there is no such thing as 10 foot purple people
no yes there is they they got old josh and they fed up a bunch of weird grapes
and he turned into Thanos you know that'll make sense and the only time in the scene that i
meant that i noticed the cgi was when he at the end when he falls off the motorcycle because that
that was clearly cgi but yeah that was like you know it's understandable you know what the full
process is i wasn't complaining you're like oh that was cgi but that's fine because it's like
that's a pretty fucking hard thing to do as a person yeah it's like what are you going to have
him do actually crash into a car and flip over and hopefully you all suffer fucking brain damage
hopefully you won't suffer death death damage
bomb himself is on the motorcycle the stunt loses its realism factor i mean these are just
a bunch of actors whizzing past a bunch of computer generated cars but when you compare
this motorcycle chase to rogue nations it doesn't even come close in terms of stunt work there
isn't anything too significant happening here it's pretty cut and dry motorcycle driving he's
not really doing too much different than what he did in the previous movie the car chase isn't much
to write home about then why did you say that it was worse he's not doing much difference to the
one that you do better i just don't i don't care about this what about ism uh don't care
about rogue nation i haven't even seen rogue nation it doesn't matter like that's the thing
if i haven't seen rogue nation these arguments mean nothing to me you might as well have cut
it out of the video solar sailor said i've been riding a motorbike for years the stuff tom cruise
pulls off is truly amazing the fact they added other vehicles with cgi i have no problem with
um the thing that got me in that scene was when he's passing through like a big it looks like a
big roundabout of cars oh yeah the roundabout and it's like showing it from like a like a really
clearly tom cruise riding the the motorcycle and it's just there's just a moment of just like
jesus christ this is awesome
i think the first time we watched it together mauler there was a moment i think it was more
where i was like this is so absurd but i love this you know there's a um there's just some
about motorcycle chases i really like um and when i play grand theft out of five when i just
want to have a good time is i'll get in a motorcycle and see just how fast i could drive
through the streets and around yeah before you crash because yeah because it's just so rewarding
to do it on a motorcycle because you're so nimble um i'm actually getting my i'm i'm gonna
this spring actually so coming up here real soon i'm gonna get my motorcycle license so i'm genuinely
makes me want to like install one of my old racing games no it's it was in the other movie it's not
good yeah but yeah but wolf i need you to understand that all of those cars are gonna be cgi
i don't care your cars need for speed video games face not real it's not real the the moving
pictures in the magic box they're not real hell why is only the first need for speed hot pursuit
game on steam come back to us stupid games it's on origin only i want to listen about how full
that's bad you guys are interrupting him car chase isn't much to write home about either
it's a bit plain when you watch it all by itself out of the whole context of the movie
it's a decent car chase but at this point in the movie's run oh it's bad because other
things are better okay time all right experienced a total of seven poorly spaced out action scene
always based out yeah well you said he doesn't even where is the you see so one two three four
five is that it's hot pursuit two not available one more like you think they're gonna make a
sequel called hot fursuit and it's gonna be awful and you'll want to kill yourself
oh i would prefer that never came to fruition experience seven poorly spaced out action scenes
in the past 40 minutes by now yes someone said motorcycles and grand theft auto fights are fun
because motorcycles were the invite city this it's true you can't deny that that is sound logic
that's uncharted two's cut scenes weren't as good as uncharted one because the first one had cut
scenes what you're failing to realize is the second one i'm trying to is a video game we've
had one of them already i'm pretty sure pong was to be everyone to the punch with world war two
wasn't bigger than world all the soldiers are like guys we've done this already like what i feel
like we're just retreading old grounds 40 minutes by now they gotta buy a physical copy this
plus the car chase in rogue nation was also much better tom cruise was driving his car through
these tiny little alleyways very precise driving and he's trying to literally stuck in an alleyway
motorcycle while being chased by other motorcycles he drives down some stairs give simon peg some
whiplash then later on he pulls off this sick little spin move this is pretty awesome i love
this the part the problem here is this better that means this is bad you're like no yeah like
this doesn't this doesn't explain to me how all out is bad you know one million is a big number
nine hundred ninety nine thousand hundred ninety nine is a small number because don't even don't
even call me yeah don't even don't waste my time with your nine hundred ninety nine thousand
tiny number that is slicing dice baby simon peg is screaming in the passenger seat because he's
scared and rightfully no it's because he's acting like he's scared i don't know tom cruise is
probably actually fucking driving that car he might be terrified that's actually a fair point
he's probably afraid because he's british and there's not a steering wheel in front of him
right now fully so i'd be terrified of sitting next to tom cruise as well simon's fear gives the
scene a nice bit because he was going to intensity preach about Scientology related
you guys do need to watch rogue nation because we're gonna do it we're gonna do them in reverse
not reverse order like i said the thing was like a ghost protocol came out and at the time i was
like oh rogue nation came out it's like all right this is this is the real shit right here
and then fallout comes out just like wow they're just like they're just gonna keep getting better
i could kind of watch all of them okay you're gonna do an order let's start with one one's good
day way in he's not good rags has video saying fallout is bad but now saying fallout is good
and overall the driving and stunt work here are much more impressive than the car chase
and fallout which by comparison is just i'm so sorry you wasted all this time and i spent
so much time on a subjective point it hasn't proven anything yeah this isn't telling me that
fallout is not good all you're saying that you feel like rogue nations was better
road nations particular moment that compares to this particular were all the scenes in rogue
nation better than all the scenes in fallout if not then what's your point i mean all i would
do is i draw a comparison rogue nation opens with uh with tom cruise hanging off of a plane
which was real of course because he's a madman um it has the motorcycle chase which i think is
better because it has some really insanely crazy stunts going on um as in like they're sort of
driving along their cliff faces and really sharp turns so from a spectacle standpoint it's probably
the more impressive one but the fallout one's still really great so this is what i mean it's like
it's like that the differences they're both great no matter how you cut it so what what
when you're trying to make here it's not as good and there's nothing in rogue nation that
is the helicopter sequence or the halo jump that's the yeah he did actually say that as
a criticism that they opened with the best scene in rogue nation too which is bad but like it's not
bad it's good it gets you really excited and just like wow this is this is this is what they're
i'm curious how long he's going to spend more on this he's just been believing a useless point
one specific action scene is better imo than one specific action scene in fallout therefore
fallout's a bad movie it's like no that doesn't follow the entire car chase here is just a watered
down version of what we've already seen he's literally chasing after ilsa who is on a motorcycle
no it just makes me excited to see rogue nation it doesn't make me feel like what i saw and enjoyed
it wasn't actually good and what if what if what if he actually thinks that the helicopter scene at
the end of fallout is better than anything in rogue nation what happens then oh shit is it
balanced again how does that work what happens now is one film now it's a good movie again
again but this time he's got solomon lane in the car with him who is just dead silent the entire
time this scene is no he says that was ilsa and he goes shut up very interesting yeah he doesn't
say he even says it's nice to see him yeah yeah which is kind of awesome if anything i may have
liked an extra line or something just a bit of banter but they they're very reserved because
they hate each other he doesn't like him yeah they hate each other it's devoid of any tension
or thrills you just know it isn't just say i would stop saying things you have to prove
but i i think that in terms of lark talking lane talking um what i got from that was that
he's he's just he goes along with everything like he's very like under pressure he just
does things he doesn't remember he's willing to kill himself at the end of the film i think
he doesn't give a shit if he dies he's just like i will make of the situation what i can
yeah yeah he's very uh he's very cool under pressure but remember there's nothing
there's nothing in terms of character in this
no characters except for the times of this character because it's so old hat and at the
beginning of this scene everybody was in the car but after they get shot at tom makes them get out
and i think that's a bit of a mistake and he probably wants to get away from the cops
and location change this scene could have been a bit stronger if everyone had just stayed in the
car with him we'd get to see them bob around with each turn screaming at all the close calls
no because it once once you do that it becomes far less that someone gets shot and killed
and plus i'm just going to be honest here the car weighs a lot less now yeah and also why
why don't he willfully put his friends exactly he's happy to risk lane he's not happy to risk
his three friends as established in the opening fucking scene yeah you're here for lane not you
guys you leave we'll meet up at you know and reacting to tom's driving but they probably
couldn't do that because they were afraid that it might cause ving rames's heart to explode
or since that's already been done in the previous movie or the character made it
logically dragging out those fat jokes man so it's different you said like oh they've done it
before so they were like let's not do that now look at him admit that it's different here each
turn screaming at all the close calls and reacting to tom's driving but they probably couldn't do
that because they were afraid that it might cause ving rames's heart to explode or since that's
already been done in the previous movie let's add a different element to this action scene how about
we have solomon lane try and kick ethan's face as he's driving no he doesn't know why would he do
that why no they're running from the person who wants to kill him solomon lane might not like tom
tom but they're someone trying to shoot him this is the guy on the writing team who suggests
something that everyone goes shut the fuck up dude can you imagine that though like he kicked
him in the face that expression so yeah and she just shoots him and tom cruises like what the fuck
this is so stupid that is so like no i went to die oh man
driving in an attempt to get out of the car and do what tom has to fight solomon
no he's gonna outrun the motorcycle as he's while he's while he's like because in his arms
and legs are like his arms at least are like tied up he's in a straight jacket he can't even like
open the door how can he even make this argument as well as trying to escape from ilsa while keeping
solomon alive and it'd be so easy for solomon to take advantage of this situation and he doesn't
want to this is what was happening right now is what he is he literally is looking at the road
in front of him through a bullet hole that was meant for him he probably wants to get away from
that i was going to say don't have to clarify the entire plan is that he luck gets him out that was
a part of the fucking plan he doesn't want to be caught by ilsa or a bullet
watch this movie i mean he has all the clips but like did he watch southpaw just said it would be
more dramatic scene at the expense of in universe logic it's like this is the ryan johnson way
where you go fuck the character i want something cool to happen it was like an action scene he even
said the ryan johnson technique yeah but he doesn't he just sits there after that we get the foot chase
which is also kind of plain the editor kind of plain he broke his ankle dude when he says
when he says what are you waiting for he goes i'm jumping out a window oh no so that wasn't it
it's like it'd be funny if that wasn't in the script because he's actually there about to jump
out a window yeah no uh i just want to find out what movie this guy likes and i can just go
that movie's boring no tension sorry that's how it works there's no tension in that particular
movie you like sorry be a little bit too erratic at times i mean it's great that you have all
these camera angles but just because you have them doesn't mean you need to use them however
to be fair there he makes it seem as though it's the same as taken i know but it's not you're
making a total false equivalence because how many shots in this movie last like less than a second
by comparison to taken where there were so many shots like that i can't think of one all of these
are big wide shots where you can see exactly what's happening and it's the benefit of the fact that
tom cruise is actually doing fun note the montage that he shows anything that's remotely
interesting like so traversing any kind of obstacles or um having to like stop after a
long move they're shown but when it's just a progress from a flat piece of land the camera
angle changes take advantage of his situation you can see the tire on he just sits there after
that we get the foot chase which is also kind of plain the editing can be a little bit too erratic
i mean it's great that here's where he is here's where he doesn't mean you need to see down
however to be fair there is this really great long shot where tom cruise jumps from building
to building and burns his ankle i guess it's just not good enough for him you know this dude this
dude for anyone who watches us and doesn't think that objective criticism is a thing this dude
is the absolute we disavow him we're not anything like him okay this man is the worst
example of objective of any kind of critique i've ever seen on youtube just he so he appreciates
this moment but he still concludes that the scene is too erratic just like how is it too erratic have
them doesn't mean you need to use them however to be fair there is this really okay so this is the
beginning of this shot since tom cruise has to go all the way across this roof and jump off the
building to the other building and he has a harness on does that mean for this entire scene
he's got that harness attached to something above the camera i'm not sure how they did it i would
imagine so they can airbrushing is really good these days yeah but like wow you know what i mean
like the whole time officially disavows young kurt all set just look at him yeah it's also a
shot where tom cruise jumps from building to building and breaks his ankle either way though
the foot chase in mission impossible three is much stronger which is due in part because his
location is still clear this makes me want to watch other movies this doesn't make me not like
the movie i liked like it's still a good it's still a good chase it is good but that's the
point they're both good then he's like no this one's better they thought it was bad no
i mean the title of this video is mission impossible fallout is a bad movie not proving
the best he can prove is that they did a thing better before that's the best he can do
but but why is he gonna say this one's better i want to hear what is into that movie and he's
trying to get to his oh at the end of the movie before he gets shot in the face by philip see more
heroin abuser the whole movie has led up to this point and we get one man shot at what a tasteful
that's what i mean is his comedic writing is just sad it's painful man i'm not gonna
see a joke i didn't hear it i'm not gonna pretend that i Philip Seymour Hoffman dies
jokes all the time over drug overdose and he said phillips see more heroin abuser
oh but like what do you what do you aim to achieve there like i don't know the joke is that
he said heroin the joke is that he died of a heroin overdose you don't get it but that
that's what i mean like when you when you make jokes about dark subject matter the joke is general
what actually happens because there's no joke there in reality it's sad and depressing
well the offhand comment we're making up off the top of our heads about his bad jokes are funnier
jokes himself that he scripted out and thought about he has some of the most pathetic humor i've
ever seen that's right i haven't laughed at anything movie and he's trying to get to his wife
before she gets shot in the face by phillips Seymour heroin abuser the whole movie has
led up to this point and we get one long shot of tom cruz sprint that's a disrespectful it was
intense yeah it is that's coming from wolf yeah i know it's not why i shouldn't be the one that's
saying this by me yeah but like i would ask who was it uh was it Anton Yelchin too that's two
yeah but he's just and they're recent you know like it's not a long time ago like these yeah ran
over like Yelchin did and died this is what i mean the jokes this just it's just so easy i'm just like
all right hold on i don't know wife's life is on the line here and you can feel that sense of
at least when tom at least bruise in here and a longer take at least when red litter media makes
fun of david carradine for dying while choking himself while jerking off there's like jokes in
there you oftentimes with red litter media they will laugh at how obvious the joke is like you'll
find the rest of them trying to not laugh because they're just like you just said that and i know
you can be like well that's super critical can't you laugh in the same way for this one it's like
i don't know man i guess i'd have to do a whole fucking video explaining how the delivery in red
litter media is fucking flawless compared to this i think allows the audience to become more
immersed keep that in mind going on you don't need it yet this guy doesn't have the problem is that
this guy doesn't have synergy with himself well he kind of like he kind of reminds me of er but
without the comedic timing or you know like you know what i mean like he's like er but with
i was going to say er without everything that makes you all good right all right
that sense of urgency this tom so what you're saying is that he's er is e semicolon r and
this guy is just colon because his jokes are shit that was fucking perfect rax or are you saying
that he's that e semicolon r is e semicolon r but this guy is just like semi semicolon r because
he's not even a whole semicolon do you write for his yeah your first joke is better or
what okay bruise in here and a longer take allows the audience to become more
squeezed all the blood out of the stone i could for that one a bunch of cuts to falsify a sense
of urgency what do you mean a bunch of cuts just establish they didn't do that in fallout either
e comma r speed what happened when what what happened when the english teacher
um got surgery he had a semicolon
because it's maybe you should stop rags no we have to make maybe maybe we need to put a strike
i think i think rags is trying to make a point with all of these terrible are you
are you saying that you hate my colon jokes with every fiber of your being
because fiber is good for your colon this this is right it helps for your poops this is strike
two rags or immersed in what's going on you don't need a bunch of cuts to falsify a sense
of urgency and speed and while the chase and mission impossible three may not be as elaborate
as the chase and fallout it's much more impactful in three because that movie actually took the time
actually to build up the relationship between him and his wife it showed us how much they loved
each other we know what she means to tom so a character development is still present in
fallout is he suggesting that we don't understand why tom really wants to catch up to the guy who's
trying to kill millions of people yeah they never established that tom crew's really kind of cares
about people you know so dumb at this point in the movie we're nested and if he doesn't get to
her in time she's dead now compare and if he doesn't get to superman and no no let's hear his
count let's see what he's gonna say chase which in terms of the plot is completely redundant
think about it no why is he so desperate to get to henry cavill especially since in the long run
him getting to henry didn't end up mattering at all
since once he doesn't know that at the time he's not a time traveler he doesn't get to him in time
this is the failure that's what are you talking about if he'd actually managed to tackle henry
he knows what would have happened is your problem with tom cruise that he can't see the future
he's not a spider so he got to henry he couldn't do anything to him he had to just let him go
because he was pretty much all for nothing oh my god this is not kanto bites you twat
and let's not forget that solomon had a tracker in his neck at this point in time that's plan b
which tom cruise did know about by the way so letting henry go really wouldn't have been that
big of a deal it's like you can capture him this way so why does it matter when you can
catch him another way anyway because you don't want to have to resort to plan b because plan b
allows them to escape yeah it allows them to get closer to their goal and you don't want that to
happen what if they split up a bunch of people yeah i was like what if the point is they split
up at some point now you're fucked so this criticism is redundant they could have easily
just caught up to henry cavillator which is exactly what wound up which is what they do
what the fuck is your foot but but but that makes the point of the tracker pointless because they
split up this is fantastic but anyway but hey you know this foot chase was on the almighty
post-it note so it had to go into the movie alternatively it i'm sorry what was not seamless
about the chase name it he is trying to get to cavill before he leaves because tom cruise knows
that this guy is close he's physically close and he could maybe have a literal tracker on him
i don't believe this is real this foot chase would have worked better in the very beginning
of the movie oh my god stop suggesting fixes for a movie that doesn't require fixes do you think
instead of meeting the black market dealer in berlin rewrite it so that they meet in london
then have benji slyly put a tracker into the suitcase as he's scanning the plutonium with his
why would they do that no that doesn't make sense narrative they're not trying to track the fucking
plutonium trying to buy it what the hell i mean why we weren't expecting the apostles to be here
billion people's lives are at stake here we gotta pull out all the stops just to be safe
so then that way instead of just letting the bad guy get away they didn't just let them get away
we already established you were wrong about that they were pinned down by gunfire
we already went over the meters and the running i was gonna say i like it when he refers to his
old pieces of evidence that we've already debunked this this is honestly giving me moves
febs vibes giving you move vibes movie pop vibes all right it's like lags and move vibes
move vibes yeah i'm getting just that that point where my head is starting to hurt because of the
stupid lead kind of pull out kernel sanders is a lot dumber than i thought it would be instead of
just letting the bad guy get away tom cruz could chase whoever stole the groove case while simon
peg is telling him where to go now although he would ultimately not i'm waiting for him to end
his comment about how he can fix it i'm just like get to the next criticism because this is all
just pointless he still at the very least would have tried his level best to prevent a couple
billion deaths rather than just you know walking in a little half circle and looking off into the
distance if he had actually attempted to get the suitcase back i would have been a lot more
sympathetic to where you've been you've made that point like four times and you were wrong from
first time towards him where'd you go what do you do this is just i love that he just suggests it
like it's just obvious not consistent with the ethan hunt i've come to know you've known ethan
hunt to chase people who aren't there yeah like what is he gonna what what do you expect just
he just randomly goes over there like okay alternatively you could have put the car chase
here as well the plutonium thief could have grabbed the suitcase off camera gotten into
the black market dealer's red car off camera we hear the tires screech as it's speeding away tom
crud it's redundant we don't need that we're creating your own movie this is not what happened
and you haven't fixed anything go make your movies less efficient and more sloppy this way
the fact that they are in and out like ghosts it really sells yeah they know what they're
pulling highlights something quite interesting notice how he complains that the london chase
was all for nothing because he would have failed to catch up to walker in time but he also wants
to chase to be moved to a different scene where he would also fail he gets sad if we ever get if
we ever get dumb colonel sanders on here we're bringing you on because you clearly know i was
gonna say i i would be willing to stay silent just let him talk yeah yes you're gonna let just
let some random dude rip this guy apart aren't attempts to chase the bad guy even our car chase
i mean hell even you say that like the chat's retarded with it right you could give tom a
motorcycle instead of a car you could plop the motorcycle chase right you could just do so many
things that in your mystical world where you got what you wanted right here it wouldn't it wouldn't
have looked nearly as good at night it doesn't matter he's fixing things they don't need fixing
so it's just all pointless that you can flip these action scenes around however you intend to shoot
that at night you know like shooting at night is difficult you need to set up lighting and all that
it would have been harder to kind of get establishing you know tracking oh yeah with
shots of with all the lights on all the headlights and all the signs and it's as dark it
it just wouldn't have looked as good you know oh god it would not have been appreciated
one two i'm pretty sure this is what the director would have known because he's a director he knows
and it shows you how inconsequential they are to the story and just how flimsy they are overall
if you say no it's not inconsequential he tom cruise had to get away from the police
he succeeds at getting away from the police no but the man in the video said he was inconsequential
no he's wrong oh no but it's his opinion someone said i love efap went away for two hours came
back and it's still going how long have we been going for nearly six hours exactly
i'm trying to i'm trying to rush this video so that we could actually be able to add today
oh anyway that's the problem with efap we could go on forever
well let's just try and let this video run a bit more because for the big finale we get the
helicopter chase which is honestly pretty great it's made even better by the fact that henry caval
also did his own stunts it's really very exciting stuff this is also the scene when tom cruise henry
caval's been in other movies though so i don't see who cares you know like that movie where they cgi'd
out as mustache much better movie because he was in it before this one so this movie just wouldn't
have been the same way what do you say sorry it really was it was it really was like the central
i like the pillar that held this film together was this mustache i feel like it was strong and
robust enough like look you think the mustache was like the column that keeps the roof from falling
down i like the idea that the makers of vegetables fall out like we can just put a fake one on you
dude you can get rid of it for the film he's just like no he just he knew that the other thing was
like a lot of people are like oh why don't they just do that it's like because they did nothing
wrong like yeah they're not did nothing they're not maybe the same people someone said justice
league is underrated that's a funny joke buddy if anything it's overrated that film is a heaping pile
of shit did you did you ever see that that petition from a bunch of dc fans where they're
like guys these heroes have been here for us now we have to be here for them so so if everyone who
watched this movie just watches it six more times in theaters then they'll be justified to make
another justice league and it's like what without going into justice too much i just love that what
sets the plot in motion is batman kills a random grunt and it bends a picture of three cubes into
a wall so he goes to fight aquaman i i i just love the fact that they're like all right we have the
cube let's touch it touch it to the superman's corpse and bring him back to life and it's so
like like it it doesn't mean i have so much fun watching it it just makes me giggle
i mean you think about it and you think about the fact that people actually unironically like it
and it's like it are the people that like it unironically just do they have autism
so what if they do are they are they like the kids in like the wheelchairs that just like stare
in one direction and they smile all days and stuff the audience this there's some more memes
as well to hang on let's just i'm gonna try and power through this fucking uh this video it's very
impressive ventriloquist skills there's a lot to be impressed you can totally say that with your
mouse at that point all right all right guys everybody yeah try and say all right with your
mouse now a thousand people are looking in front of a computer it's going all right all right it's
very possible all right all right i wonder how they're going to translate that to chat is everyone
just going to post all right there you go all right i love all right sorry like i said to
play it longer he just makes a stupid fucking
odds of this happening are one in a sure it's convenient wait it's not even convenient because
it doesn't all it does is make it so that he has a uses it as a weapon later to knock cable off the
thing yeah the tracker like isn't down on one i'll happily give it to him just to move on yeah
it's a bit convenient that the hook hooked it that way fine yeah it's absurd but it's so fun
whatever tom and henry start fighting up there and naturally they both of course end up going
over the cliff and dangling on that wire when oh no the animated rock starts buckling under
yeah they didn't even get a real rock he didn't even hang a helicopter on a piece of rock it's
like jesus kneecaps sending our hero into a free fall this dude is trying so hard to be us
and he's failing so badly at it i hope he's not a fan of the show that would be sad wouldn't it
i'm sorry yeah it's okay i'm we failed you had a one
he's the anakin to our everyone it happened a third time what you're looking at here is the
most convenient hook in movie history since it also winds up killing henry cavill after tom yanks
it down because that's such a cool scene so yeah that's exactly how physics what i will say is if
the hook is being pulled down then it should swing out in a way that wouldn't be able to hit
cavill you know what i mean yeah from the top if it pull if you pull the wire down it should swing
out the second it goes over the edge sure so we have failed you sanders we have failed this
entire scene is just ridiculous it's incredible i will happily give it to him it's the most
ridiculous out of all of them but it's still fun as fuck it wouldn't have changed the ending though
because tom cruise would have still made it up to the top um i don't know if i agree with that
the whole point is that he knocked cavill off prevent califrin doing anything it was way
who was way below him you're right so tom cruise would have still climbed up and hit the button
and disarmed it yeah i guess all i'd say is it's still dangerous that he's around but yeah he
could have gotten the button either incredibly jarring as well because up to this point the
entire movie tried so incredibly hard to make its action look as real and immersive as possible and
a lot of that hard work is undone when it does something that is laughably unbelievable man i
was enthralled you would need 20 comedy hooks i i was i was totally down for all of this stuff i
didn't even think about the book i mean i'll just give it to him it's more ridiculous than any of
the scenes i agree but is it jarring i suppose i'd have to you tell unless you can give me something
that's subjective whether or not it knocks you out of the film well i think it's because you know
these two actors were really there doing it and they were fighting and it wasn't like it
it wasn't a clean fight you know they were worn out and beat up and banged up and so it added this
this roughness to it that was very real it was very tangible and so um qualify how he's arguing
it's jarring is it just the fact that it's a contradiction of the fact that it's not as
realistic couldn't you argue the reverse you could be like i love how the film climaxes with
a much more crazy action scene instead of the more realistic down to earth stuff we've been getting
i mean you can make the argument either way it's not a very strong objective argument i mean i
would say that yeah sure it's cgi'd but that cgi'd thing will still affect the actors that are real
in the thing and how the movie plays out so it's still an element of danger is like yeah there's
not actually a hook there but we know that if that hook hits the actors then the movie will be
like oh yeah this hook fucked them up yeah let him go on spend your disbelief here people come to see
these movies specifically for the action every time we say we're gonna hurry up good action
sprinkle throughout it's ruined by three major flaws the fact that there was no effort to try
and get the audience invested in its character while he shows while he shows as he shows them
laughing together as established as 11 minutes at the least by his assessment of character work
but okay he he literally doesn't even the video that he made this is a really dumb person the
fact that i have only the company so i can tell you you're dumb to your face in the plot he says
there's a flaw in the film that he doesn't know what's happening in the plot i find that very
interesting and the fact that these action scenes are so poorly paced out and have no sense of
escalation you haven't proven that ever which is a massive problem because the action takes up
nearly half of the entire movie if you were to cut the foot chase the car chase and the motorcycle
chase from this movie we'd have a much smoother plot and in all honesty we really wouldn't be
missing that much to take that even further how about we streamline the plot even more by cutting
ill set how about we all know guys he's fixing the movie by deleting the movie no why are you
taking away all of these good things out of it completely she is so redundant to this no she's
not her presence she's the one that finds salomon lane at the end manages to get to the other nuke
she was pivotal so it's something to be invested in obviously simon pegg could not have disarmed
the nuke by himself it's established that you need two people to do it not only that but he
would have died if you even found and he would have died also he would have died and then
everyone the nuke would have gone off and then everyone would have died also she adds to the
element that he has to choose between giving her up to order in order to complete the mission
which falls in line with the other things that he's been doing all right it works so well she
had to make that choice too save him or save herself by feeling wrong film is good muddle up
the plot and on top of that let's go ahead and cut the white no stop cutting it what no
fairly as well which would bring mission impossible fallout down to a nice tight
hour and 30 minutes that's why oh no an impressive helicopter scene and some good fight scenes
sprinkled throughout oh no this is the worst part he's openly just blatantly advocating
yeah all this great movie just fucking chop it up oh no no don't ruin good things it's like yeah
because the smoother the plot is the less time you're going to have to stand up exposition which
could be time better spent on meaningful character interaction which would you learn that meaningfully
interact with sony vega in turn make the action stand out even more let's conclude the problem
that the previous three mission impossible movies have is that they only seem to exist
so that tom cruise can pull i'm down with it the cast and crew never yeah i'm fine with that as
a premise as long as they write a good story around it they just keep stumbling into great
movies for some reason keep fucking off and the movies are great yeah i like the idea that it's
like they keep accidentally writing a good story at one point the writer's like it's not an axe
it's like well guys the reviews are in they love it damn it never set out to make a good movie with
a well-crafted story and strong characters say they never set out to make a good movie
the tom cruises pull off amazing stunts the cast and crew never set out to make a good movie with
a well-crafted oh yeah fuck you guys wow jesus i don't know i don't know that i'd say that
even about ryan johnson yeah i was about to say like ryan johnson thought he made a good movie
he's fucking wrong but he thought he did he says that so casually but it's such a such a bid
i mean tommy wyzo didn't set out to make the worst movie ever made you get the best probably
the meanest thing he said throughout this whole video he says it's so abrasive just like meh
casual they didn't set out to make a good movie it reminds me of when um jess fanderson said that
more people listen to him like than anybody you know it's like one of those things where it's like
why'd you say that so casually with what i want this guy you know i want this guy to make a movie
fail miserably at it so then we can all laugh at how bad it was explain that we didn't understand
we didn't get it or then we can say that he didn't set out to make a good movie if if christopher
mccquarrie watched this video like what do you think he'd think like i didn't set out to make
a good movie are you kidding me it's just yeah uh ryan said just curious what is the schedule
for efap streams i'm just gonna stop you there there isn't one then ever is the best we can do
is go hey when is everyone free then we figure out a day and then we try and get it and that's
usually a week before it actually is i'm i apologize for that but it's tough to get everybody in place
yeah wolf fucking wolf fucking fringy upside down
this is the definition of bad faith criticism this must be who sarah z the implied fly swatter was
talking about that video yeah implied yeah i think that's right we should get we should get
the fly girl on she was pretty good yeah i'll i'll try i just i she she really likes all the
people that really don't like us is that we can be the bridge she can be the bridge crews can pull
off it the cast and crew never set out to make a good movie with a well-crafted story and strong
characters they just set out to make some cool stunts and then they cobble the movie together
later as a result you get a memorable scene or two you literally misrepresented a quote it's the
equivalent of what you get out of a bad comedy typically those movies only oh my god he's
comparing it to jack and jill jack and jill you have got to be kidding exist to have random scene
after random scene of terrible jokes with only do not criticize other people for terrible jokes
you have you'd have some of the worst i mean not only does he not have good comedy but he has
really disrespectful kind of disgusting comedy yeah your comedy isn't just colon it's
that's coming from it's cola this is coming from me you got to understand i have very
offensive comedy but i don't make fun of people who died tragically
that's just messed up i mean you've made fun of holocaust jokes before done that
yeah but i don't like go after specific people i suppose that's a distinction yeah
i don't know i think there's probably a time and place you can make it work but he fucking didn't
play a thin plot line that strings the whole story together
and while you're comparing it to melissa mccarthy and amy schuma comedies this is sad
you might laugh at some of the jokes the movie itself is never very good one of the hallmarks
of a good comedy are good characters he's using the awful to this day partly because that movie
tries to make you sympathize with ted striker oh come on people don't love airplane because
the oh my god no one loves airplane because of the characters the characters are a stupid
excuse for the dumb gags that make us laugh our asses off that's such a weird point to make wow
to make us care about the relationship between him and elaine yeah don't forget there's a
relationship and i can't live with it's a joke it's not like we're supposed to actually
be super invested in these two yeah this scene is a setup for a joke
what a pisser pilot in the war but now he has a very real fear of flying and the pilot of the
plane who coincidentally enough was in the mission impossible tv show became too ill to fly and of
course striker is the only person on the plot what the fuck is happening right now why are you
explaining an airplane like what what are you doing with the necessary this doesn't make fallout
worse just reminding us that airplane's hilarious what the fuck is happening look at these models
they're cute character we like him we want to see him succeed and as a result we're on board for
whatever may happen during the fuck does this have to do with mission possible never seen a
bit before no sir i've never been up in a plane before you ever seen a grown man naked now i'm
remember that's because we're invested in the characters that's funny yeah we want to learn
this little boy story about how he saw his first because a good action scene works in the same way
a good joke works with a proper setup and a payoff none of the action in fallout was properly set up
the audience isn't what do you mean oh you just says it he just says it go back shut shut up and
go back to airplane intentionally left in the dark because the writer himself doesn't even know what's
going to happen in the movie next when we're in new zealand i go down to the to the restaurant
and the hotel and mckew just sat in the corner on his computer and i'd sit down and go what what's
going on it would tell us they said no i don't know i nearly got it then before you know it okay
so the director is an improvisation master i was gonna say how does he create such amazing
shit on the fucking fly improv master without any build-up tom is the colin mockery of movie
directing i'm sorry what did you just say without any build-up and i'd sit down and go what what's
going on it would tell us they said no i don't know i nearly got it then before you know it
without any build-up tom is just jumping out of a plane sorry but what do you mean this is all
explained to us before they do it yeah but that's just those are just string sequences and expos
oh my god and we only sort of vaguely know why matter of fact oh my god fucking shit down my
throat and call it christmas i swear to god this human being in fact i assume that you may hunt me
so upset since he's such a capable super spy perhaps if the movie had taken the time to set
that up by establishing to us i'm not even so we've gone like full circle where i'm not even
angry anymore i'm just disappointed you man you know how like like i would like you know when
your dad sorry for me but it like he would look at you right and he would say and he would say
like i am he would be so he'd be so angry see this is how you do dark humor see that's dark humor
that's how you do dark humor right there it's so simple it's all about delivery listen
how how your dad would get really really mad at you and stuff and you bad but it was even worse
when he was just saying like i'm so disappointed yes i expected more that's like me with this
this abortion i'm so disappointed we're nearly there we can do this say sorry regs no because
i'm i've actually evened out because earlier i said that uh made a joke about how all white
people look the same so i'm actually perfectly even i'm perfectly balanced as all things should be
you weren't insulting it in an individual so i know it was even worse it's all white people
well apologize so really i get a couple and i apologize to free i'm not going to apologize
to all white people apologize to all white people right now no i'm definitely not
if anything i'm i mowed reparation for my amazing jokes i mean you've balanced out your crappy
jokes i'll give you that that's true they call this cola jokes for spy perhaps if the movie had
taken the time to set that up by establishing to us that maybe ethan hunt had failed the flying
portion of his imf training or maybe at some point early he's arguing there's not very tension
filled that we see him flying that helicopter because we didn't know that he wasn't fully
equipped to fly a helicopter i thought they gave that away when he looks at the controls and goes
uh what what is what is this temperature gauge elevation i actually really like the bit where he
goes power power and then he like starts to lift it it's like he fucking frowns at a superman's
helicopter you're like oh shit because he's got the payload as well and they have that great scene
where cavil's just sitting in the helicopter and behind him that one just goes i love uh i love the
idea that we do his fix we do his fix we have a scene where he goes um i can't fly a helicopter
i failed my training and then he's just he's reviewing the movie and he goes this is a bad
exposition scene and it's only here to serve as a point to blah blah we're just like okay string
scene exposition characters so so what are we doing someone just made a very very funny comment
the patriot cat made a very very funny comment tom cruise plus donald trump equals tournald
where'd the r come from oh wait no that's that's tom olde crumb oh wait tom i prefer tournald
i thought it was tournald too but that's because my eyes are yeah i've been looking at this
chat for seven hours it's started to push me on his spy career he crashed a helicopter during a
storm or something and lost his partner fucking crappy ass old ass story that explains he can't
yeah but that wasn't even that wasn't as a result i mean just give us anything hell even if simon
they did give us something they showed us that he was not fully equipped to fly it and he was
trying his best and then he tried to wait onto the other helicopter and he missed missed peg were
giving tom cruise a crash course on how to fly that helicopter as he's chasing down henry cavill
that would be good too you know really trying to hammer home the fact that he doesn't know how
oh and and uh southpaw said that uh benji doesn't know how to fly a helicopter anyway
uh but it doesn't matter we got we got what he's asking for okay
it would be a repeat of the scene when he's navigating him
how would that not just be a repeat of that scene that's what his criticism would then evolve into
oh it's the same as it was before it's like so you are unpleasable there's nothing
it'd give the scene more tension as it is now we're supposed to believe that he has no flying
experience whatsoever but as soon as he gets into that that was the bit where he goes power
he just pulls his eyes out and now he knows how to fly the thing which brings me it's not
that complicated in the scene he figures out what his power pulls the thing and he goes up
it's not like he's just mastered the helicopter to my next point ethan hunt is practically perfect
he has no no no no no no no no no no no no no he fails in the first scene he gets
the shit kicked out of him in the bathroom the film is based on his failure
you are wrong the first thing that they do they don't get the plutonium he's literally
he's literally making this into my favorite movies ever it doesn't satisfy the criteria
the main villains hate him specifically if you remember cavil says or cabo whatever he says um
why won't you die at the end scene he fucking hates him
sullivan lade won't complete his plan with john lark until uh tom cruz is framed like nobody isn't
able to catch up to cavalry constantly has to prove that he's not a double agent well my point
is here that the america was beloved by everybody tom cruz is not the only idea that he fails
miserably and he can't achieve what he's trying to do there's so many examples we've been over
stop it i just stop it
there's no flaws and as a result he has no relatability as a character i think they
when he saves the police sorry female cop when he saves her i legit was like man feel for you ethan
that was a tough tough situation you just fucking killed four people just to save somebody who's
already dying who's actually preventing you from completing your mission it's just like that was
such a good moment and now he's like now we gotta find a way to keep this mission going
then it gets more complicated and it fits in with the themes one of the best videos to convince you
that mission possible fallout is good if you've seen it so he really should have pushed that
redemption angle because tom cruz let the plutonium slip away because he just acknowledged his
failure he doesn't fail but he left because he refused to let ving reims die but the movie never
explores that what do you mean what do you mean he's a literal scene where ving reims explains
that that's what happened then you said you really liked that scene the cia get involved because of
this the scene that this guy said he really liked is the scene that he said dude i'm gonna explore
with it hey so um here's something fun that i just the bathroom thing on youtube the bathroom
fight and there's a sequence in it this is something the comments have pointed out but
there's a part where superman's punching are the um the tony lark guy and the the punches are
synchronized like the the theme of um mission impossible so it's like like that's the sequence
of the punches huh interesting i didn't notice that that's terrible it's it's better they did
it better in rogue nation the string scene anyway bring your string person you just string
sentences together to avoid people getting bored of the time between things you actually say
what sorry i wasn't listening i'm tired that's like that's our mood no we got we got we're
it hardly even touches on it apart from just a few lines of we hardly even touched on it apart
from being the entire plot that's all it really is dialogue and overall everybody besides the
black lady seems to be okay with the fact that tom cruise put one third of the world's population
at risk uh outside of his own team and himself i'm sure the people who weren't killed by his
decision are a little okay with that i can't we're close to being done the movie would have
been so much better if tom cruise had let ving reims die in the beginning i mean after all
not the point they didn't do that they did a different character that would be a violation
of his character he was what do you mean let him die like aim specifically at his head
what he had the bulletproof vest he shoots him in the head anyway he shoots him in the knees
look if ethan hunt had gone in the car and left benji and uh ving reims to die i legit would have
been like ethan wouldn't have done that just just wouldn't have done that so your scene doesn't
work anymore well it's the most logical move if you put yourself in his shoes no it's not about
being logical it's about him assistant is a character you can't believe we're we're patrick
willams right now can you believe it yeah he's not he's not acting logically he's acting
consistent with his own character be genuine weight by showing us that genuine he's using
all the keywords guys remember if you want to prove a point say real actual genuine legitimate
all these words help your argument it's not pulling any punches and let's face it this guy
does not have the body of a super spy he looks like he'd rather be here because he's the tech
guy you fucking retard he's not we can throw in some more fat jokes
these are just such inspirited i know he's not
i mean let's let's flip this shit he doesn't have the body of a super spy will you wouldn't
fucking suspect him of being a super spy now would you
why don't you take that big mac and shove it up your piehole on the way to the bank
yeah nailed it nailed it hitting the buffet killing him off right away
would have added a hole in his suggestions i hate them but the whole point of the movie
is that one life the one life is what matters and that's what gives ethan the edge of the
movie so if you killed him then what would simon pegg have done he would have been like
hell he's gonna shoot me too just either just shoot me get it over
layer of tension to the movie because if they killed him off maybe they'll kill off elsa or
maybe even simon peg maybe why do you want everyone to die why do you hate these characters
why do you hate this movie stop trying to correct me if i'm wrong but i'm pretty sure that none of
the major imf characters have died in the past three movies i hate the argument that they don't
die therefore bad no and he just pointed out that one of them does die oh fuck yeah he's just
pointed who has only had what 10 minutes of screen time oh and another film but fucking we'll just
ignore them two films two films wasn't it he was in a i can't remember if he's in both but it's
i'm double checking i've had to i've explained it before i i really like what they do with
the arc if you will of what alec baldwin is in this universe and how he dies
really clever and it's another thing that he's just sad yeah it makes it really sad when they're
like hey you're part and it gives us it gives us like emotional like we care about tom cruz
getting the bad guy um it adds that to it you like lagged out a couple times they will for you same
oh i was i was saying um that it was kind of sad how they did it because um they're like hey
you're part of the team now boss and he looks happy about it yeah yeah and he says right at
the beginning i've transferred to take control of the imf even though he was the guy who's trying
to bring them down in the previous movies because he was proven wrong and then he's like and what
you did in the prologue you consider that a mistake i consider it your strength the fact
that you'll take this single life over the rest like you'll is and he's like if anything it'll
save my ass and it's like a joke but then later on he tells him to go and let him die it's such
a nice moment and it's it's just like it's such a it would be better if it wasn't in it than maybe
at all like i said every fix he suggests just damages the film so what's so strange is that
this guy's intention is to try and make the film better and then as we explain the ways that it
would make it worse we're just finding new and new things things so good because of the things
he wants to take out i'm pretty sure that none of the major imf characters have died in the past
three movies apart from alec baldwin who has only had what 10 minutes of screen time in this movie
plus it's looking like he might be back in the next movie anyway everything that happens to alec in
this movie was alec's suggestion really yeah i'm kind of bummed he died oh here's the great thing
about movies there's a two-year gap between right five and six so seven can start two years earlier
that's true he didn't he's not going anywhere that doesn't that doesn't mean he gets resurrected
if he's a prequel yeah it's force ghost no he's complaining it's like he might not even be dead
it's like no he'd still be dead he'd just be in a prequel
dude whatever all of these characters feel bulletproof which just except the ones that die
yeah except fucking alec baldwin deserves to lessen the movie's tension even more characters are one
of the most important parts of any movie we experience the movie through them and christopher
mcquarrie knows that how do you balance storytelling with stunts it all comes down to character and
story first uh that's that's the thing that gives it the heart and soul of the movie and that that
really has to take no star wars films for you asshole i'm glad he proved it with mission impossible
fallout he just didn't implement it correctly or at all when you imagine he didn't implement it
correctly or at all all of these flaws together you don't get a thrilling action movie your
collection is literally like two things that we deemed fair enough but kind of nitpicky so just
like he he made me feel sad when alec baldwin pretended to die yeah good job you get a boring
pointless mess i don't think anybody would describe this film as boring you'd be tough
it's not boring he was bitching about how many action scenes there were and we should cut them
out but we but there's too many action scenes but the film is too boring but there's too many
action scenes but the film's too boring fuck movies look just you just can't get over the
fact that he's right okay get over it mission impossible is a bad movie not a terrible movie
not a flaming pile of garbage just a bad movie that in the end will only be remembered for being
that one movie where tom cruise dangled off of a helicopter this is a bad video not a terrible
video not actually no fuck it it's a abysmal video and it won't be remembered for anything
but having terrible points but like everything i'm happy to help contribute to that just like ghost
hashtag i was there one movie where tom cruise dangled off of a building just like rogue nation
is known as the one where before i will be remembered for being the fucking awesome mission
impossible film i don't think anybody's going to pick a specific moment from it and say that was
what it was yeah man i um i don't know this is a solid one and it really holds up years from now i
can watch this again compare that to mission impossible three which is where this series
should have ended that one sticks out to me as being the one where he tries to save his wife
it's a good movie saying it's a good movie doesn't mean fallout's bad move on it's easily my favorite
movie in the franchise because it was from its very conception a movie first and a stunt show piece
second ethan hunt is dangling out of this car because he has to if he doesn't stop the other
car and he can't make that argument for anything at fallout yeah i'm he crashes his helicopter
into the other because he has to um he's running away from the police because he has to it yeah
he has to be killed the fact that tom cruise does all of these stunts on his own is just the cherry
on top of the movie rather than its sole purpose it's a great action movie and i don't know that
explosion looked like it might have been cgi in bad movie i don't think i don't think they shot a
real missile also i'm pretty sure this is tom cruise he's been another full mission impossible
video sorry are you saying uh wait art mauler are you saying that are you saying that was a cruise
missile yes i'm also saying that he's been in a movie before so this is kind of redundant at this
point like why even make movies this is what the others should save to achieve but i don't think
things are going to get much better for this franchise i think it's hit its peak because i
agree with mission impossible i think it may have hit its peak because just a couple weeks ago it
was announced that we're getting two more mission impossible that makes me happy that makes me very
happy one and we gotta wait till 2021 oh wait 20 maybe they're doing these side by side
like making them side by side yeah like photo rings one right after the other and releasing
what i like is that it's all the same team so they're probably going to be taking the uh
solomon lane story further yeah i like i like the idea of having this big series on
hey go for it it's like a tv show in movies it's which is something that's happening normal
apparently it's the same guy directing them too yep well i'm very happy to hear this
how many series get to the seventh and eighth installments and we're like and they're still
really good yeah normally by the time like three rolls around we're like please stop
stop what are you doing stop no no the first one was good stop
all right so the caravan alien but it poses the question what will tom cruise dangle off of
stop it too please maybe a choo choo train maybe a submarine what if he physically
smuggles himself and the rest of the cast and crew into north korea that'd be a pretty crazy
stunt whatever they decide to do next i just would walk through the woods i just hope that
it has a somewhat interesting yet simple story with a little bit of character development
maybe a sense of fun that you never make another movie
it'll just be tom cruise saving the world again another attempt at trying to overcompensate for
how short he is and another opportunity to cash another check that's what helps him fly across
buildings it's like he makes it sound so cynical but i get the impression that everybody is
keen about these movies and yeah yeah tom cruise isn't doing these crazy stunts and learning how
to fucking fly helicopters because he likes it because of the money he's already because he's
short it's the reason why he would have done edge of tomorrow as well you know it's not like oh i
want the money i want to make this good movie he already um he i mean he already said that
they didn't actually set out movie so we think we've done it i want to be wrong about everything
you are wrong about everything i have some good news it's getting tired
and so am i but that's all i got this video guys it took a nap longer to make than i anticipated
but i did have a blast i didn't have a blast watching it man please i don't actually have
alcohol in this house well because i think i dumped about 250 hours of my life into this video
and i'm almost certain that young sanders doesn't look all that skinny himself
with some kind of saying oh i see where you're going with that yeah copyright thing with the
way youtube is right now so sharing this video around and helping the channel grow oh i don't
know i don't like sharing videos that are spreading bad ideas oh yeah oh my god this is what you delete
this video thanks for watching and i'll see you guys in the next one is there a way to delete other
people's videos no it's uh so yeah that was that was that we did it i'm actually impressed that
we managed it uh pretty bad that was a that's a that was a 40 that was a 46 minute video gentlemen
and we didn't get into it until like an hour and 40 minutes 40 minutes into the stream uh we got
we got two two memes that uh tonight i'd say so first one oh boy i'll send it to you guys now i
think i think rags will particularly like this one
oh they're a pretty awesome piece of fan art
hey this guy's a little boss man it looks oh we're flying aliens colonial marine oh god
yeah we've got looks so upset we got we got kylo bend in the background we got
Thanos the last Jedi little star killer figure we got a little we got a little frog fringy
wow what's on what's on my desk i can't we have a frongy uh what is that um oh my god the ceiling
fan is a porg what is that you got a star killer base up on that shelf too yeah it looks like we
have a blu-ray of the last jedi what does it say tag still in the box i can't read that still sealed
haven't even opened i can't read what's on the efap poster as well yeah maybe someone in the
chat will know there's a video as well that i haven't actually seen yet but it looks to be
a meme video that was quickly made during this stream oh boy and they they said that it's uh
it's a bit rushed but let's check it out anyway you're a frog now free
i just pointed it out i didn't i mean that's how jj biggs was born
oh
oh it's a cotton of rhino milk apparently on the
but yeah so i've got a shit ton of of superchats
but anyone is free to do as ever they wish it's it's that time of the day um so uh i'm just gonna
get to reading them because the the faster we do it the better right there's there's a few um okay
so wolf have you seen the polish witcher series um i saw clips of it on youtube and it looks really
awful so i'm not gonna watch it happy useless daylight savings time i think yeah we're near
we're nearing that in uh in britain now i'm not sure yeah ours was yeah it was yeah so i woke up
this morning and it was like wow i i know i got really high last night but i didn't think i slept
in that oh my god i changed the time of the world hello hello guys first time catching from the
start hello geowulf horlow efap has returned a surprise to be sure but a welcome on wolf is
there a way to get an early version of your book what i don't know they asked if there's an early
version yeah yeah like a vision that's early no okay uh captain marvel was a structural mess the
end sucks yep uh i will make a video eventually it's coming hey molar i'm gonna make an in-depth
review on k kingdom hearts three inspired by your longer reviews i was wondering if you have any
advice don't have much editing experience the advice we always give out is just keep redrafting
and structure it and keep notes like it's kind of hard to give you more specific advice you'll
learn video editing a little bit at a time i'm all pile up yeah like you'll find there'll be like a
thing you need to know and then you accidentally figure out something that you then use for the
rest of that's what i do is if i want something to happen i'll just go to youtube and like how do i
do this and then i'll learn how to do it and that'll just become another thing i know how to do now
i am the same one said uh someone said the princess and the fringy
an account called toto the table said i am the table i am i am i am
i am not sure i get it captain marvel was great because i got to look at women of course
can we put our hands together for the green people representation and captain marvel i
hope you're happy fringy yeah there's no frogs in it though yes girl slay i'm glad captain marvel
raised a witness for the horrible sexist oppression of women being barred from driving go-karts at the
county fair that's yeah uh there's a joke going around there's like batman's history his parents
would get down in front of him or his mom was at the very least but i think uh the idea being that
you compare it to captain marvel which is when she was younger she was in a go-kart and then
your dad was like hey you're not supposed to be doing that because she's a girl i guess there's
lots of that in his little montage where they're just like you can't look at you girl it's like
wow you know batman watch his parents get murdered out of his eyes
uh yeah but captain marvel she couldn't drive a go-kart that one time
have somebody you i can't i can't read that who know who i love how they space it out it forgets
uh i finally managed to get here on time i think jj everyone will be the most
inconsistent character jj's not gonna be in the film idiot finally any of you see captain
marvel yet i couldn't because i have to pick up the plain milk after taking my existential dread
to the airport love you guys yep we got a whole bit on it at the uh the front end of this stream
hey wolf in your acumen video you called kingdom come pretty could you elaborate
it looks pretty it's a it's got good graphics i am three hours into the game and there's been
like no gameplay yet so i don't know what else to say other than that it looks pretty
uh am i the only one who thinks the island in the last jedi looks like a shoe
seriously i feel like calling it shoe island i don't know i can't remember if it's shoe shaped
i don't know that i call it a shoe i vote for all characters being inconsistent
i see easy choice do that i'm gonna vote for one specifically
love all you guys can't stay the whole thing but we'll catch up on moola i've been watching rags
for years and it's how i found all of you oh yay oh right that's southport i've been working
on a response to this video on fallout it's estimated to be at least 70 minutes long and
50 minutes have been edited already dude i'm surprised you managed to make it 70 minutes
because it took us a few hours oh boy hello future me who will listen to this later well
that's from uh spooky too spooky for me there you go any of you played dmc5 who's your favorite
character yeah uh who's my favorite character what from a gameplay perspective it just says
yes characters uh well i mean dante is my favorite character as a character
their options are emo kylo ran or the second black power ranger
right so it's actually for real though for real dante is my favorite character but from a gameplay
perspective i'm kind of toss up between dante and neuro because they're both though admittedly i'd
say probably neuro is more accessible like he's he's clearly the character that eases you into it
but uh yeah i'll have to replay it some more times uh hey molar are you gonna do an unbridled rage
video on captain marvel it'll be an unbridled meh streaming during smash summit finals god damn it
i didn't even know that was happening hey molar i recently watched the last tg bp and i gotta say
i'm disappointed falling asleep after four hours long man ain't that long after all huh i was up
only four hours it was a plate i put a plate today well technically i am in normal people's
time but you know gotta let it out gotta let it out uh what do you guys think of captain
marvel i think i need to saw kesien's cameo was a bit much that doesn't happen i was about to say
yeah i was about to be like is that actually a thing that happened because that would have
yeah that's genuinely wouldn't have surprised me molar captain marvel praise when that's not gonna
wolf read wall breaker by sanderson it's free on his website and it'll make us your
in oath bring and make more sense oh man i haven't even started the way of kings yet
i want to get through the wheel of time books before i start any of stormlight archive and
shit why would we deal with sanderson when we have joseph and his books yes
thoughts on monkey jones coming on efap and the ed article on um we'll try and get monkey jones
on here i think at some point i don't see why not and as for um i gotta go real quick get something
i'll be right back okay uh as for the ed article on quinton i just thought it was really funny and
i like that it annoys him so cool the anime i recommend is the first season of psychopaths
ever seen matt colville's video on star wars and the last jedi i disagree with some of his points
but i agree with disney films undermine the ot i actually enjoy his perspective it's just that
i find he's wrong on a few things but i guess that's normal like this pretty much what you
could say about any good content career here's some money to help support the comrie sovereign
maybe your people find freedom in the crowd more like yes thank you we will escape uh the evil
english finally with that donation more 11 your tfa critique where did you get your footage from
blu rays if so what is your exact process i'd like to improve my video essays they're just rips of um
of blu rays you can you can get there's lots of little programs that allow you to rip your own
blu rays if you have the drive um literally if you google it you'll get plenty of advice
or programs exactly what to do or how to do it um yeah it's good i think it is really good to have
visuals that match what you're saying it just helps solidify your point or at least have people
follow what you're saying and you know if you're doing longman content then it's good to have them
follow instead of falling off completely uh so many thumbnails with arthur morgan's grave shake
my head get it uh you've played red dead redemption 2 what they were referencing was i think i brought
that a lot of uh videos have spoilers and so what he's talking about spoilers for red dead
redemption 2 i'll probably forget it i'll never get around to playing it oh wow i was gonna say
yeah i guess uh apologies um i love you i love your second tfa video rags two hours and 20
minutes of excellence keep it a while ago some guy named jin rayner wrote a 108 page response
to the plinket review for phantom menace defending the moving criticizing plinkets methods anybody
familiar with it or have thoughts i've not read it but i would 48 pages i would total it's 108
pages what he said but i would totally read it when prepping for now analyzing that's that's a
word phantom menace if i if i get around to tackling that i'd like to hear a defense of it
slice and dice dangus heads ought to put it in terms springing might understand
slice and dice thoughts on companies pulling michael jackson content due to the defamatory
documentary it was already disproven in court years ago i have not heard anything about that
uh yeah you you know the uh leaving or something it's like a documentary that's meant to be like
an expose or something um i'm not i haven't seen it but i'm not convinced i would just say that
much about the whole yeah yeah i haven't heard of it yeah i'm not in the position to talk about it
really the mc5 is so good i'm currently on mission 13 knives and criticisms but nothing crazy
well you're not you're not done yet man you still got i cannot seven or eight to go
yeah you got out like all of that but i understood you uh fringay needs to return
and he has i'm sad about jared he had his internet taken away from what i've heard
yeah that's probably a good thing i'd say yeah who knows i would say that jared probably shouldn't
be on the internet anymore just wanted to say u3 sorry fringy and the efab has helped me out
recently love you guys also any chance of covering the shit show that is captain marvel
yes coming soon to a youtube near you glad to see rags didn't vib himself after watching two marques
brownlee videos last love tfa part two mr rags keep up the good work and the aquabab video is
great frig daddy g wolf while comparing new vegas to metro you said new vegas had a stupid plot and
bland and lifeless characters qualify please i'm pretty sure i said that about fallout in general
which when i say fallout in general i mean after fallout too because that was really the last time
i liked a fallout game because three is garbage four is definite garbage 76 i have not heard
anything other than the fact that it's garbage and i think uh new vegas is overrated i don't
know if i said that specifically about new vegas because i don't have a frame of reference for
what quote you're taking that from i think that i don't like the characters and i thought the
plot was boring most and then i don't like the gameplay of new vegas i'd say it's the best
out of everything that came after two but uh i mean that would i'd need to go so much more
in depth on that and i would need to write a script and i'm still tired after eight hours
rags i really like the new part of the force awakens video everybody's joined up on that
just watch the new captain marvel movie my review of the movie oof
hey guys i saw they shall not grow old by peter jackson yesterday and i was wondering if any of
you guys had seen it and if so your thoughts about it i've not seen it ever i've heard of it but i
haven't seen it i heard good things about it though yeah i should we should watch that uh
to clarify wolf's comment on his was on his best and worst of e3 2017 video he is more of my money
i guess that was uh clarified that was a video i made two years ago so i don't remember what
i said about it all i remember is that i i remember you said in e3 2018 oh smash uh that
was your that was wrong by the way wait you cut out on all of that can you repeat that you said
you weren't interested in smash you thought it looked bad and or something like that well
i wasn't interested in any nintendo games because i don't own a nintendo console and uh you need to
fix that man well if you want to give me 400 dollars i'm not gonna buy it for you though
well i'm not gonna buy it i don't learn about your money man i i'm spending my money on a
vacation i don't care about nintendo oh man i got better games on my pc i'm not buying a switch
for two games two games hmm how many do i have i don't like anonymous uh maybe h bomb meant left
and right like actual directions even though that would be dumb because things can be in front
instead of left or right yeah i'm pretty sure he meant politics but even if that was it it would
be dumb too an efap on my birthday and a nascar race shit if only i didn't have to work to deal
with right now and then this would be the best birthday ever uh fair enough uh does that mean
h bomber is anti-vax um i would imagine he's pro vaccine but he yeah he'd probably consider that
a binary of being right and wrong welcome to pinochet helicopter safari's communist ride for free
did h bomber guy not actually watch the room
you'll find with his people for lack of a better word is they'll say the room is objectively
good as a comedy because people laugh at it well it's objectively bad as a drama because people
don't get invested in it or something like that because that's how they use the word objective
based on how people feel is the most retarded use of it ever so they would say the room is good
if you look at it as a comedy uh that would be the justification if that's what that's about
i would say the room is objectively good in every conceiver absolutely it's a one billion percent
film i enjoy the work you guys do i look forward to watching this later excellent hey rags hey rags
enjoy your tfa critique part two thanks i worked really hard on that took me a lot of a lot of
editing that's where that's where they get you what's interesting is i've done four of the
cameos and you two are still not not in there yet and i this is going to be funny when you
finally pop up people like oh shit yeah we did a cameo for this it's been fucking ages uh
love all these efaps more have been a pleasure watching them over the months keep doing what
you do and can you give me your best impression of darth vader saying i am your father love you man
i'm not going to embarrass darth vader trying to do that off the cuff especially without being
able to play with it look they should have just cut darth vader out and maybe slimmed down the
film a little bit i felt like he was forced in like you know it'd be just a nice easy watchable
26 minute long movie we didn't need the battle of cloth either you know because it doesn't go
anywhere they lose what's the point cut the battle of path cut digger bar cut the chase
with the asteroid thing and cut best spin and you're left with the most important parts
i don't know what they are but they're there okay hey more when you upload gudelb don't let
your efap crew watch you should just put it on efap and have them react to it also how is marvel
they will be able to tell when they're watching gudelb this is an actual video it's it's pretty
fucking obvious uh and yeah marvel was shit captain marvel i mean wolf over 12 000 movies
came out in 2018 how many have you seen to justify saying there weren't many good movies
yeah okay i'm not i'm not taking into account a bunch of i agree ringy and wolf are just cutting
out all over today not me though okay i'll repeat it i'm not taking into account a bunch
of art house movies no one sounds like your net connections coming from an art house
art house movies don't matter i don't care about them sounds like your comedy is more
like an outhouse at this point you're diametrically opposed to fucking yms it's like oh house doesn't
matter well you know i the the more yms videos i watch the less i find myself agreeing with him
we need to have him on there to hash out this movie discussion
we need to tell him why he's wrong i'm axing you wolf are you willing to give acriman some leeway
for being a dc fanatical superhero movie no tim pool did a rant on captain marvel could be
guessed i would not be against him guesting on efap i would love to have tim pool on i'd love to
talk to tim pool yeah yeah you can come on anytime yeah uh wolf that was cool watching you play video
games the other day cool yeah i got scared really quickly hashtag kick j oh what's the
fine line between identifying something in media as a reference slash homage or a straight ripoff
the topic briefly mentioned in mauler and wolce recent reviews big fanny wick
is tough i haven't specifically explored exactly that way identify it that would have to be on a
case by case basis yeah because you know it when you see it there's a there's a tough to break all
of it down have loads of examples of how it how it works it's like um it's like the smell of weed
he's hard to describe but you know it yeah yeah you could never mate you will never have
smell weed or in your life but the first time you smell weed you're like that's weed and then
you're just like man i'm hungry now gotta get myself some doritos and then you run out of the
house and you're screaming and you run the alien ultra to kill me the devil that's not how weed
works yes it what are you talking about gosh wolf hasn't tried the best weed clearly no no he's
getting away from the weed because he's a good christian boy and he's not going to partake of
burning the devil's lettuce hey rags pick the vermintide 2 on your recommendation but having a
blast if you still play what's your favorite class i play cnf we can ask us the most specifically
unchained man firstly add australians to siege and now efap has him as well i know sorry about
that um i am three turned me off the mcu no really it did i'm yeah i wouldn't blame you for
that i meant you pissed me off to no fucking fucking terrible y'all have inspired me to view
media more critically i've actually started appreciating good writing more because of this
i'm even planning on starting a review series of my own thank you that's the best result i'd say
we can get out of efap right outside of making people laugh yay so uh that's good stuff man
good luck um my opinion is probably wrong sorry wolf but i thought captain marvel was okay not
amazing not terrible just okay probably need to think on it i i was gonna say wolf hasn't seen it
uh i'll be interested to see what you think of all the criticisms i have in my video i guess
but i'm not gonna watch it um i defend i defend all but black panther and captain marvel
there's a couple of other ones you need to put in this iron man three thor one and two hulk
yes finally a jojo efap meme has anyone seen jojo yes it's fucking great very fun despite
a couple plot holes here and there i've not seen it i've been told that plot holes don't matter
bring have you seen jojo bizarre no oh well uh it is rags and i have the same shit it's from
destiny one not two oh destiny the game i thought when they said destiny shit they meant destiny
oh who would put his face on a shirt and wear it in public i don't know small people small people
oompa loompas hello all my boslobs wolfy baggage
action scenes strung together so it's a movie yeah let us praise alla together uh you get to
look at the gail cop perfect he was stuck between a car and a mailbox not sure oh right right
speaking of yeltsin i strongly recommend green room yeah there you go uh you may think it's hard
to make up plot holes in mission impossible fallout from whole cloth but actually it's super
easy barely an inconvenience i don't think he made it look hard because he was like oh fucking this
happened uh words are just mouth sounds that we define with ideas we debate the meaning of tongue
and teeth noises i spent money to say there's watermelon all right the money we'll spend
porn for the porn god smut for the smut throne praise selenesh what is your favorite 40k faction
come come come come come never played 40k i haven't either i don't know enough about the
factions to really know quite yet uh no i don't know that much i've read like a little
yeah i don't i don't know i don't know enough about individual factions
uh hey mailer have you seen the newest video by now you see it on writing women
thoughts great work as always uh all of you and make more videos rag i should have a video oh
i say that um it is fucking 10 46 pm because we've been streaming for about two days now yeah
so i know at the beginning of the stream it's like yeah i have the time and energy
finished for tomorrow and now six fucking hours later i'm like i don't know a nap sounds pretty
neat um and as for now you see i've not seen the video on writing women but i find that
title amusing i don't know here's how you write women mauler if rags is trying to kill wolf and
the only way to save him was to kill rags would you be fighting what you hate or saving what you love
well it would be impossible to kill me because i'm uh absolutely yeah if there's a situation
where guns are involved i don't think i'm gonna be winning i feel like rags is probably gonna be
able to defeat both of us oh i'll just stand out in the open be like and my miserable
weapons please i've been waiting for this day for so long i'll just cold with rags
why would you i'll just i'll give him the rose line you'll he'll stop in his tracks i'll be like
rags you're killing what you hate instead of saving what you love and i'll give you the vase
line and you could um get rid of your chat flips and dry hands i agree with that senior mauler will
you be blessing us with an outrage video for terminated genesis i appreciate your videos sir
wish you all a pleasant day yes 100 yes and i want to do it right quote unquote i will be spending a
long time figuring out how to do a terminator rage i can't imagine me getting any more angry than
i was asked in the discord yesterday uh people were talking about whether or not tlj or genesis
is worse and they were like let's ask mauler they were like i'm pretty sure he thinks tlj is
worse i was like no it's genesis it's genesis i can't believe that we actually had watched genesis
and this is this is actually worse than tlj genesis is the worst oh should i i don't think
i told the chat this story i know i've told you three but um about about the friend so i have a
friend who loves terminator more than anything in the world he thinks terminator two is the best
movie ever made i don't agree with him but i understand it and that's a very good movie to
you know to think to put up on that pedestal when i and when i say that he is a mega terminator fan
i mean he is such a crazy terminator fan that when he goes to when he comes to my house um
the way he knocks on the door he does the terminator you know that and that's how you know he's there
um that's how much he loves this movie after seeing terminator genesis
i was like man i need to show my friend this so i don't know he's not tapping the battlefield theme
because he doesn't do the at the end maybe it's just a really subtle no he's he's specifically
told me this but anyway so he he didn't see genesis because he was like i heard it was bad
and the trailer made me think it would be bad so i didn't watch it and i was like well we're
gonna watch it so we got about 15 minutes in and he doesn't talk much during movies
um but he makes expressions with his face that as opposed to expressions with his
shut up his hands anyway so he we got about 15 minutes in and he looked very
like he wasn't seeing a movie that should exist halfway through the movie around the point where
it's like john connor's he finally said something and he was like i don't know if i want to watch
the rest of this movie anymore and i was like no we have to watch the rest and we did and at the
end he was a little quiet then we got and then we smoked a little to you know get our thoughts a
little muddled and then he lost his mind and he basically for all intents and purposes went on
to say that terminator genesis is the movie that ripped his heart out and stomped on it over and
over and over again and i was like oh man i i killed my friend i felt really i felt really
bad after that because he he really loves the terminator movies kind of squeaked away you know
because it's the fan base of terminators just not big enough to make a big stink about it but it's
it's terrible yeah it felt so bad i was like wow i just did the equivalent of like bring his child
only it was with terminator
so yeah yeah there will be a video eventually and i'm just gonna take my time and make sure
i do it right because it terminates someone i've loved since i was a kid and they fucking destroy
it with the fifth one um fringy has become the sad pepe i'm pretty sure he's a happy froggo rags
i'm i'm not happy yeah rags you're a sellout for doing videos that are less than half and
hour long jk i actually like game reviews do you have a review schedule when we can expect a new one
once every one every wednesday on exclusively games jesus christ you're doing them weekly
yeah they're they're only 10 to 15 minutes so for me it's like insane like only 10 to 15 minutes
it's a little tough to boil it all down in 10 15 minutes but you know i'm learning how to make
normal person-sized videos it's a yeah i'm on a 12 i'm on a 12-step program to being fucking normal
i'd be a short man um i think i might have to go to sleep actually i got you man i'll be right
behind you yeah we're not uh yeah do you want me to wait around it's completely up to you if you
like i'd say we're going to be another like 10 minutes probably yeah man look it's okay if you
leave we're just gonna not respect you anymore if you do that temp what's ten minutes of frog time
oh wait it out i want to highlight so that subliminal origami said t3 killed terminator ages ago
no no no no three's bad terminator four's still kind of bad too uh terminator five it didn't
just i'm not trying to be tonal here it didn't just kill terminator it literally erases it
it no longer exists and when we say literally we mean literally literally there is no two there
one and two and three and four it's it's insulting and when you see denarius playing
sarah connor it's like what happened who thought this was a good idea yeah as annoying or offensive
as terminator three is it's just so much better than t5 t3 has like the ending 30 seconds
and that's that's still better than anything in genesis
anyway hey wolf what do you think of the new designs for some of the mutants
in metro exodus for everyone else what kind of computer should i buy
oh um big strong fast handsome i do the best name yeah i'll go into it in my video on exodus
which i'm working on but it will be a while i like the designs the only ones i'm not a big fan of
are the zombie ones that are pretty much just the ghouls from fallout which i thought was kind of
lame but the rest are really good and as their computer it's kind of tough to explain what you
should do just buy parts best value for the money you have in parts yeah and look for advice online
i suppose the best value for money is to go to craigslist and something and buy somebody else's
or hell you can just go to pc part picker pick out the parts you want and it'll show you a bunch
of websites that match price if you're really on a budget people will sell their good computers for
very very reasonable prices they ain't got overhead and for the most part they just want to
get rid of them whatever reason yeah i i spent a couple grand on my desktop and i'm not going to
have to upgrade this thing for quite a while question for you guys what's the best scene in
thor one and why and no the ending credits don't count i was gonna say when you know
gets dropped into that black hole i think it was the was it the thor shower scene i was
oh my thinking oh no i'm thinking of the hospital and then you know that's fighting everybody
i like uh just just the family drama with odin thor loki so like
uh probably a very big speech to each other toward the end or when uh odin first cast him out i like
those bits i like the the title card and nothing else well there you go he said he couldn't use
the ending but you can title uh the second before the ending maula is it true the room is true are
you a thick supple boy hmm i can't you can't say that about yourself someone else has to say it
oh it works through the rules will will you efap on school of movies last jedi video
i mean we can't do them all but i've not even heard of that one so i don't know maybe one day
i don't know this guy's video is objectively good because it convinced me to rewatch fallout after
efap yeah never will go everybody who's seen the film and watch this just go watch it again
just go do it now that you know we haven't seen it but definitely see it complex movie bad make
simple like kitty cartoon bring either froggo fringy reed scythe and you're talking about a
jim butcher book uh i'm ds now subjective grim reaper in the room oh it could be yeah that's
well scythe that's what it makes me think of anyway yeah if captain marvel gets the final
blow on thanos i will be pissed as will we all i think most people will be actually perhaps aren't
gay that's not a statement reminds me when razor fist said horizon zero dawn's world sucked because
they started with the robot dinosaurs first and then everything else later i've not played it so
he did say that yeah he did i remember that's a bad point i mean there are definitely criticisms
to the game and i don't as much as i don't like razor fist i actually kind of agree with that
point too then i was gonna say there are a lot of things that weren't well developed in that game
there was a lot of potential like i really like the gameplay i really like the visual music is
fine there's some good tracks but most of it's kind of samey most the the problem with it is
that the story is really really lame and the characters are buddies they're just blank
slates with some of the worst dialogue i've ever heard yeah i mean it's got problems like from what
little i played i didn't play that much of that i completed the game twice so okay well you liked
it enough then i guess i mean i i really liked playing it but the story i mean my second time
through i literally just skipped all the dialogue because the game is so boring to sit through and
listen to all the characters uh yeah i still haven't played it but i think it's good uh rags i mean i
enjoyed it gameplay wise so oh so they said rags what about i and a y e does that count as a
sentence i yeah like sing i like yes no rag is does does i count as a sentence like when you say
i to agree with something like a y e what is the subject and verb i don't fucking know dude no
uh i gotta leave to work yes i gotta leave to work at night shift have a great rest of the
stream guys thank you mc muff chicken flipper thank you mc chicken flipper i learned about
sentences back when water was wet oh hey fellas have you checked out a channel called terrible
writing advice i've heard yeah i've seen he's great man yeah i love him think of any videos
from him uh he basically what he does is he he basically talks about a specific subject
and the advice that he gives is very sarcastically because really all advice but um it's framed as
good and whenever he brings up actual good advice he then like dismisses it with some other shit
advice it's great so yeah you got you got to watch it man good uh ethan francisco said did you
see h bomber guy's post about moderation it's like oh go go back six hours find it uh is fringia
kulipari can he tap the poison i have it's not a type of frog or no idea you're asking him as
though he knows so i would know that you guys this is interesting you guys should see a movie
called the hunt from 2012 especially wolf because the protagonist gets into a similar situation to
what wolf has to deal with um it's a film i have seen it's mad michaelson it's um i'm not gonna
destroy i'm not gonna even say what it's about just because of the fact that i'll probably get
you to watch it but it's it's interesting to me because it's such an unknown movie with such a
high ratings it's really well done and um i haven't heard of it yeah i'm just gonna leave it there
well i i will make a note to uh yeah there's so many movies we gotta watch we gotta watch hot rod
we get nato trilogy again we gotta watch what were we gonna watch uh whiplash or thunder what whiplash
yeah traffic thunder i haven't seen that one yet you haven't seen what sorry whiplash all right yeah
we'll get to that um i gotta go eat with family but the current rate of this video you guys will
still be going in two hours here's another question if you guys played backups the line
how much of an awful person do you think you are and how do you feel about how it weaved gameplay
and story but it did it i uh i think it does extremely well because it takes advantage of
the that it's a video game to make you feel a certain way it wouldn't work in any other medium
wolf come on you like to gush about it do it wait about what backups the line oh yeah i really
like that game they said what do you think of how it weaves gameplay and story oh very well there
was a point where i died and there is like this loading screen and you know how like some games
will have like like a quote or whatever or it was like some game tip instead of that the loading
screen was like do you feel like a hero yet no yeah i love that one that was so good yeah i was
i i would look back i like looked introspectively and i was like this game makes me feel like a
bad person i really love it though what i love about it in particular is that it doesn't tell you
when a choice is happening you know you only figure out afterwards i definitely want to go through
and like try and intentionally make different choices that's co-op we should play it sometime
oh yeah we could do any um i bet this fucker doesn't like john wick either there's a good
chance have you seen how to train your dragon hidden world yet uh i have go ahead wolf give
a quick thoughts on it i liked it i liked it more than the second one i i still think the first one
is the best visually it is the most gorgeous animated film ever made hands down it is
unbelievable what they accomplished music is great voice acting is great villain is i mean
he's better than the second movie but he's still not anything to get worked up about um i'd say
it's like like a really good seven out of ten i enjoyed it um catching kavil wouldn't have
mattered anyway this is the same bad argument as finn sacrifice being pointless because luke showed
up later anyway i've not even heard that argument but it's not even an argument it would have
mattered if he caught him it would have uh do you guys know that the co-writer of star wars episode
nine with jj is chris terryo writer of classic films such as justice league and bam
yeah but didn't he didn't he also write like i'm pretty sure jesus
would fringy want to restart oh sorry uh i know that that
you want to restart again uh wait oh no he hasn't really
what uh wait no he did ongoing
for you you gotta go oh forget it forget it then uh please make it stop one day a channel was
created by a youtuber named the dishonored wolf he loves ranting but if he loves one thing more
fight and round the world i get it yeah i challenge you to uh to a rock off jack
saint maul and my brother made efap art put on his twitter for you his account is gavin
munro seven check it out would mean the will to him that was the one where we were all playing
aliens it was very good thank you very very much uh i can already tell you how avengers gonna go
captain marvel's gonna file a sexual assault claim on thanos and since we need to believe
we'll wham and he'll lose yeah i think that'll be subversive molarina enjoy the review videos
you're making for exclusively games have some money yeah i know me and uh me i've been getting
along with that channel it's interesting making videos that are like below half an hour and stuff
i think you guys should check out echo if you haven't seen the video i uh i really do try and
make an argument for why it's good rags you should make some videos for that channel i reckon
yeah good stuff right on it i want it if i can make a suggestion for efap video discuss silent
hills a hill worth dying on from gaming brit it's really kind of bad unfortunately i've got no
connection to silent hell as a series like yeah i i know so little about it i mean i played like
the original a long time ago but i don't barely remember any of it yeah we're the wrong guys to
do it unfortunately uh best case scenario what's cm's role in end game uh worst case scenario best
oh best case scenario she's not in it and then she they tell her to do a thing that requires to
go to a different part of the galaxy and she does it by the end of the movie and it helps something
she does that thing that lois laine did in man of steel where she turned a key a little bit and
that was it like literally i don't want her anywhere near the movie so i would just have it
they go we need the gloom and loosh bloom to be able to access the area in which we need to go
and she goes i'll get it in the meantime you guys collect everybody and do whatever and they're
like okay fine then she comes back and gives it to them she's like wow that was exhausting i need
to go away now that's just just that go away uh do you think the kree is what wakanda could be
the more you think about how wakanda evolved as a society the less it makes sense uh but the kree
could be what wakanda should be but they decided to have thatched housing shoved into their fucking
are you saying that a bunch of black people should be like aliens no i'm suggesting that
the black people would have been advanced if not for being black it's it's not racist at all
oh by black i mean wearing dark colors i don't i don't mean this skin
when you wear dark colors it makes you stupider proven it attracts the sunlight into your clothing
and that'll uh send delta rays into your skin which attack your brain cell synapses it makes
sense if you think about it the wolf to buy nintendo two dollars i don't know okay uh just
another 398 and more love your apex legends review yeah no i worked really hard on that
it's one of my favorites recently that tfa critique was horrible though what the hell rags
yeah rags are you gonna explain that shit dude um the final uh aardvark is a um graphic novel
that is set in the cinematic universe of um have you seen white chicks what the fuck are you talking
he's in a different podcast right now it's the second it's the second in a series of
film adaptations of and we're nearly there uh you guys think it's possible to objectively measure
so bad it's good films in a way similar to how you judge the value of a comedy or do you think so
bad it's good is strictly subjective uh i think that is subjective you see i think subject so bad
it's good it's objectively bad to the point of giving you a subjectively positive experience
right so yeah it would be the line story campaign isn't that's gay where the line is for you is
subjective but the things that make it up can be measured objectively that's the case by case
basis to the water the water in the cup you can measure objectively but how big the cup is until
it overflows that's on you that's on the cup that's on the cup in what what should be on the cup
is don't buy shitty cups okay because white chicks is the best cinematic universe the cinematic
universe of white chicks yeah hold on white chicks is the best cinematic universe that fringey
started wow nice ring i liked your role i liked your role in white chicks yeah there were a green
frog can pretend to be awake in a sorority you really fill out that costume anyway this is what
happens to us when we're aiming for this i'm sorry like i'm legitimately i'm i'm trying to keep
focused it's we're nearly there would you smoke and home an homage or a rip-off brand of weed
no have you heard the tale of lord jared the wise i thought no it's not a story an intellectual
gaming community would tell you it's an efap legend i don't get how yms a tragic story now
i don't get how yms could so casually gloss over so many of the problems in tlj well at the same
time having an in-depth analysis for a movie no one is ever going to watch or care about amusement
he's weird yep he's very weird i'm sure he can explain i like how i i want to know why it takes
him like several months to make a four video when his job is to make reviews of movies watching
movies most of the time i'm not even kidding he sees like a insane amount of movies which is
good as a movie critic but i don't know it's turned his palette inside out at this point
like he's just weird i don't know oh wolf i'm not going to be making any videos next day wolf i'm
working on a video i don't i didn't say that you ever said not going to be making any more videos
i mean i i said in my my follow up to aquaman that i don't have a plan for when
my next video will be or what it will be on but that was when did i release that video like
was that almost two weeks ago now we'll say a week well i've i've been really working hard
at metro and elita so yeah it's been don't work hard yeah he didn't deny it it's a definitive true
but that's that's the end that's the end of that um uh beautiful selection and amazing
that's that's a long effap we did it under eight hours that was the important thing because if we
had come yeah that's still like basically a whole working day i mean uh thank you to our guest
froggy daddy g have you ever taken a shit that makes you tired
he's subscribed to his channel he might actually release a video yeah i think i think i had to
make a video make a video fringy um either way it's been wonderfully exhausting if anybody has
actually been here the whole time oh oh yeah everyone go tweet at jack saint that i want
a one-on-one veggie uh debate with him about objectivity i will win do it go go spam him
tell him to tell him just tell him just spam maybe he's gonna use that i don't care i don't
care he can just complain about it i'm tired just spam him tell him to tell baller no and to do the
keep that to your fucking self i'm not getting involved jack i don't have a twitter account then
you're gonna have to make a twitter on you well yeah you're gonna have to get a twitter on your
thing just someone tell jack that i want a one-on-one debate with him on objectivity and i will
there we go how's he gonna contact you do it i don't know and they say through you or through
smud boy or i don't know just get him to do the thing i think jay said he's on friendly terms
of them so just tell them to do it through jay that's what they call tell them to do it through
jay can gay porn they one-on-one they can be the mediator there you go have a wonderful
conversation but anyway thank you all so very much for the kind donations on the amazing
meme videos i don't know when the next efap will be i'll see about if this guy wants to come on
now that we've covered his video he's probably not going to be happy with what we said but i mean
want to leave uh and then we're also trying to do the whole uh the debate between jay and wolf will
come up soon as well probably about arrival so it's all good thank you all for hanging out for
so long thank you for guys for the last thing as long as you did this thank you for our many time
guest rags for coming yeah it's always fun to have this guest so was it i arrived when it's ending
in fairness seven hours and 17 minutes and 17 seconds you've had your chance seven hours
we're tired good night all and we shall see you next time goodbye see you everyone goodbye
