You're saying this was happening to both of the, uh, the.
Yeah, so vampires and Pathfinder, there were there were some issues with streaming.
It didn't go like down down, but it definitely took some fidgeting
to get it to work like it needed to.
And streaming on YouTube was never good also.
Yeah, but I've never experienced the problems that I experienced in the last month.
Yeah, it wasn't like this, though.
I really think that I don't know what's up with YouTube.
I just some stupid shit going on.
It was never like this before.
And I do think finder there were some of it.
I mean, this is this is 10.
Let me put my 10 foot.
I wish I had some to the board actually put on.
But like, I do think some of it is.
I don't know why they would go up to your vampire game, though, or your or your
like specific like literally role playing is Nazi vampires.
Well, that might be it.
I don't know.
But what I don't know what our Pathfinder game is to work too bad for.
It's just a tiny one, too.
It's a little stream.
So I don't know.
A combination of their inability to have a.
A steady back end.
Yeah, like it almost feels like some kind of clogging problem like this.
Well, people told me on New Year's is that they're not on New Year's
on Christmas when we were trying to stream.
They said you guys were having a hard time streaming, too.
And I was like, I was probably the same shit.
And I just assumed it was because I called my video Star Wars Funeral.
I figured that would say you can't live stream a funeral.
That's insensitive.
Only we can live stream.
It was almost identical.
It was like 30 to 40 minutes in.
It started to just crash and then I could not get it back.
My stream key started refreshing, which I've never seen before.
It's like I can definitely part one, part two this.
I just really hope that we actually managed to get away with a full stream
this time around.
Like, who knows how many parts this will eventually get broken up into?
It's just me.
I feel like I'm doing so much.
You rags. You and me.
We're well, I just I don't know why a stream where there's four women
would get canceled by YouTube.
So we're too too naughty for YouTube.
Too naughty.
That naughty dog.
Yeah, I guess I guess.
Should we just pretend everything's fine?
Let's just move on.
I mean, that's what I normally do in life.
It looks like it's working.
Well, yeah, well, it's all back up now.
We've got it's as if we never left, except the stream is going to look
like it was much shorter, which is fine.
I've got the other.
The other thing is now processing.
So I guess that'll be safe at what we did.
It exists. That's the important thing.
I think people will get over the fact that there'll be multiple episodes
on Moolah, right?
Like, that wouldn't be much of a problem.
We can't really get through one minute of the videos.
So yeah, let's carry on, folks.
We can do it.
Let's pretend everything's fine.
If it goes down again, we'll have to discuss, I don't know,
plans for the future because I don't fucking know what to do.
Yeah, everything is just fine.
All's well.
No issues.
Things are great.
Talking about Star Wars.
Also, someone said, did you remember to record it?
That wouldn't make a difference this time around, as in I have to like
the only way to start the new one is to end the old one.
And so that would create two recordings instead.
Like it wouldn't make a difference.
And I'm not losing the stream.
It exists still. It's fine. It's there.
It's just yeah, that's where we're at.
It's with issues like these that I am in.
It's topical.
We are discussing the Last Jedi that when it comes to problems like these,
I like to remember the wise and immortal words of Rose Tico, who said that
that's how we're going to win this, not fighting what we hate,
but saving what we love.
So if we can apply that knowledge to streaming,
then maybe we'll be able to squeeze through with a W on this one.
I think I think hope is the best way to go,
especially when things like that are getting made, you know.
See, it ranks.
Do I see? Let me click on it.
Oh, my God, that's it.
I look fucking sexy now.
Oh, while you do have kind of you are looking a little titty there.
Well, you know, the shit is tight. What can I say?
Sometimes you're a skeleton.
Sometimes you're Voldemort.
Who knows what's going on?
Shape shifter, clearly.
Also, I like that we have McMuffins.
Muffins. Yay.
Why was your one man?
I like that.
Very good.
Those are supposed to be like packs.
Very, I'm super, super cut.
Yes. Very, very voluptuous packs.
It makes complete sense.
We are an interesting aesthetically, at least we are, because we're very,
we're very, very dull, boring, uninteresting women haters in real,
you know, in real life and in personalities, but aesthetically,
we're very interesting, very different.
What's wrong with your paws?
I was looking at your paw.
What's wrong with your paws?
I was just calling her out on the human.
I mean, yes, I noticed that.
Yeah, it's it's that's just that's a style.
Well, if pause looks like funnel cake.
Well, you want to lick the sugar off me?
Be called out, my dude.
What's wrong with your paws?
What's wrong with your paws?
Every spring, applause.
Which leads us nicely back to Jenny Nicholson.
Right. That's a perfect segue.
Crap. What's wrong with your paw?
Crap. You can't even pause without the stream dying.
Yeah, let's let's hope it stays up.
We're going to pretend like it never happened.
And everything just continued.
Clever is that it showed that a character you thought was invincible
because of established tropes they fulfilled
could actually just be unceremoniously killed.
Yeah, I don't know.
Listen, I don't know how after the first season,
y'all people watching Game of Thrones aren't surprised
if a character just gets fucking killed.
I just don't. I don't I don't know if you're still surprised
after the first season.
I don't know. It's a yeah.
Well, they'll definitely lose any sense of this is not possible.
Now it'll be like, oh, I hope it doesn't happen to my guy.
You know, my favorite.
Yeah, which is essentially what it was.
And it's probably part of what brought Game of Thrones down
to much iteration, like what is Game of Thrones?
And as they were writing it, they were like, this is Game of Thrones.
It's it's big, big explosions.
Lots of wars, shocking deaths.
That's what Game of Thrones is like.
Oh, oh, it was a little bit more general. OK, fine.
Well, that's what Star Wars is.
It's big explosions and shocking deaths.
And then shocking resurrections.
Shocking in the case of Sheev.
Yeah, millions dead.
The listen.
I'd normally be the friendly, sexy, conquering king.
It just gets horrifically killed in like a weirdly brutal way.
And the baby, too.
And that's a clever subversion of expectations.
Like I saw people sad about the red wedding or shocked,
but I didn't see anybody like this sucks.
They totally.
I don't know. Someone being sad meant they were surprised.
Probably because it's not the same situation, like at all.
How are you comparing this to?
Yeah, this is this is pretty, pretty, this is pretty not smart.
I think she's just trying to compare them to being like, oh,
two events within popular media.
Surprised everyone.
Things that were surprising.
But I wouldn't say that, OK, let's be real.
It's Star Wars.
Who would have ever been surprised by Snoke dying?
Yeah, I think we all expect him to die at some point.
Well, yeah, he's the bad guy in Star Wars.
Yeah, exactly.
Duh. Shocked that he was killed.
I would say the second movie, not in the third one.
The subversion is on making sense.
Like, huh, you thought that this was going to be explained
and he would have a through line lull.
So he's saying it's so clever.
And I bet JJ saw this and he was like, oh, fuck.
Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God.
What am I going to do?
I got to make Kylo the main bad person.
Oh, no. But he's a loser.
They don't make Kylo the main bad person.
So all of this is moot.
The only time Kylo ever wins a fight that his mother fucking stops
and gets him killed.
That's that is so fucking email.
Mom, I'm trying to kill someone.
I was about to be a girl, mom.
Oh, you ruin everything just like dad.
So I killed him. I'll kill you.
Oh, you're doing right. I'll kill you. Yeah.
Yeah, they didn't fulfill his character.
I also never understood people's compulsion
for Snoke to like be something.
I mean, for the degree.
Yes, because you're not smart.
You don't. You don't understand.
Yeah, that's because you're not smart.
But he is something.
He is something he's he is.
He ties us to the original trilogy.
He's the reason the first order exists.
He's the reason Kylo turned layer explicitly says
Snoke got to his heart or something like that.
Like Kylo or fucking not Kyle.
The Snoke is an insanely important character in this universe.
Of course, Jenny, why are you?
Just run narrative perspective.
When we've set this up about this character,
why would you not expect him to mean something to the narrative?
I like I really don't understand this post hoc.
Like he died. He's not important.
He was never important. Like, whoa, whoa, whoa.
No, no, he was.
You said you might not have developed it,
but he is insanely important.
You can't just say I'm making a movie about the 100 Years War.
And the key is the king of France is King of France.
Everybody. Oh, no, we died. Don't worry about it.
Well, he wasn't important if he died.
No, what? I don't know.
It seems seems pretty like
she defines not important as a dead person, I guess.
So if anyone dies, Snoke, you get the idea
that you play through a really long video game
and then you get to the very final boss.
And then as he's about to explain, you know, how he made everything happen
for the entire game and how he was the mastermind behind everything,
you just skip the cut scene and insta kill him and then the credits roll.
And you're like, oh, all right. All right.
Demon's Souls did something kind of like that.
Not not that exactly, but the the ending boss
was not some horrible monster you had to defeat.
It was difficult. It was like this pile of sludge that you could easily kill.
The idea being the previous boss to him was actually the final boss in the game.
This was it was sort of like a thematic ending to explain like X, Y and Z.
But the these these examples like Snoke.
There was we were led to believe a hell of a lot about Snoke,
but it got subverted in terms of like, oh, the trilogy
isn't going to be that much about him is like, OK,
but we're still missing a lot of information.
And, you know, I think they could have filled in.
They could have.
But again, why do we keep passing the buck with every sequel?
Like you guys are going to repay what they did.
No, you guys are going to repay what they did.
Well, you have if you have you have the two alternatives of being
we learn about Snoke, which makes sense and we don't learn about Snoke,
which doesn't add any sense to the world.
And they went with the other one is like, oh, yeah, the last last one.
That's the clever one.
If anything, it's a huge cop out.
It is. It is 100 percent of cop out.
Like we could explain to you this thing that would require an explanation,
but those are hard.
And what's interesting is I'm going to subvert your expectations,
expectancy violation.
OK, what's interesting about this video as well is that
like this isn't framed as just this is why she liked it, in which case
we would just be responding the same way, probably.
But this is also framed as this is why other people are wrong.
You know, she's trying to explain how their reasons are bad.
It's like, it's like you were wrong to think that Snoke, this character
was going to like mean something.
Imagine like you were wrong to think that,
which makes me almost think that it's wrong to just think.
So like they do that thing as well.
Your brain, let's be real.
Thinking is wrong.
They do that thing as well.
They're like, oh, what did you want?
A scene where Snoke says, hey, by the way,
let me read out my entire backstory.
Oh, it's like, why why why do you do this?
Why is that this real bad?
It's not what I wanted.
No, creation of the original trilogy.
The emperor was just an evil guy.
Whoa. Whoa.
That's because you're not smart, Jenny.
So the original trilogy was the beginning of it.
There was nothing that needed to be set up
because it didn't go into an existing preexisting world.
You have one of those when you make a sequel trilogy.
Wait, wait, but but her contention is that the emperor is just an evil guy
in a robe and there's no other meaning
behind the emperor and the original trilogy.
I and we this she's not the greatest fools, though.
He's a bad guy to robe.
You know why she said is because Snoke is actually just a bad guy to robe.
Like, that's that's the role he had in the sequel trilogy is actually.
Yes, you're right.
Snoke is actually just a bad guy in a robe who has who means nothing
because he's never given any meaning to his character.
But we understand a little bit more about the emperor and what he's trying to do.
And now part of that, yes, I will admit, is in the expanded universe.
And that's true.
But whoa, we even if you look at the prequels,
Palpatine deceived the entire freaking galaxy.
He manipulated his way to the top.
He was able to cloud the minds of the entire Galactic Republic
and the entire Jedi Order.
He fooled everyone for decades.
You're telling me that is a bad guy in a robe and not like a mastermind manipulator.
Exactly. You got to be fucking kidding me.
Exactly. 100 percent. Yeah.
Interesting. You think when it comes to evil organizations are like,
we need a leader to start looking for people with robes.
I don't know.
Local solders and bathhouses like it's the magic.
Like some of it like auditions today must have a robe.
That's all evil, must have a robe.
Fucked up face preferred because you get extra points.
Seriously, because she's only started watching Star Wars recently.
She didn't grow up watching Star Wars.
The only reason she started watching Star Wars is because she works for Disney.
And so she has to cover or she has to, you know,
watch at least the new Disney stuff by works for Disney.
What do you mean specifically?
She works at Disneyland.
I see her all the time. Really?
Yeah. Why would she need to?
Is it something because like surely YouTube is full time for or I figured it was.
Maybe I'm wrong. Is she what's her job at Disney? Exactly.
I don't know her exact job.
I've just seen her there a lot whenever I used to go.
But I mean, I don't want to dox her.
Oh, no, sure. I just meant like a vague sort of thing,
but I didn't know she worked for Disney.
She just works at Disneyland.
I don't know what her exact job is.
Usually when you work at the parks, you have multiple jobs.
But that's the only reason why she covers all of this, because she works there.
And so now, you know, they're really pushing Star Wars.
That's why everything she says about Star Wars,
or at least Disney Star Wars is going to be positive.
She has no shit about Star Wars.
But she hated.
I thought she hated Rise of Skywalker.
Is that is up to date, by the way,
because some people say she doesn't work there anymore.
I don't know.
I just I haven't been to Disneyland in a while.
I can ask because we have mutual friends, but.
Because, yes, she used to be a part of, was it a screen junkies
or something like that?
Hmm. I can't remember.
But either way, like.
She's interesting perspectives on movies, no doubt,
because I know a lot of people who are fans of a really big fans of her as well.
And again, like I've said this before, I've watched videos from here
that I really like just interesting takes on some other stuff, which happens to us all.
Something I mean, for the duration of the original trilogy,
the emperor was just an evil guy in a robe.
And that didn't seem to bother anyone because Darth Vader was the villain
with the actual nuance and personality.
Just like Kylo Ren is that for this.
But we always knew there was an emperor.
Yeah, the emperor is mentioned in episode four.
In fact, if you look and go back to a new hope, Darth Vader is shit on
by other people, you know, like, oh, you and your silly religion,
even though he has the capacity to choke them out and stuff.
But like he's not given a lot of respect if you look at a new hope.
I just don't think that that's completely the case.
I think that Darth Vader is set up as more of a lower level character.
And we are given this idea that there's an emperor who is the big bad.
And briefly, when you take the prequels into consideration,
he's not just a bad guy in a robe that it's ridiculous.
But there's the whole thing as well, that even if he were that simplistic,
that was the state of the universe as we entered it in episode four,
which is the unique benefit the OT has over the sequel trilogy
where the sequel trilogy was like, welcome back.
Everything is now different.
And you're like, whoa, hang on.
And if they'd started that way, they actually have a leg to stand on,
as in they'd be like Snoke is in power, the first order of mostly in power.
They're going to wipe out the local good guys that control the Republic.
And now a scrappy group of heroes are going to try and stop them.
You're like, OK, nobody's going to be like, wait,
but how did Snoke destroy the peace set up
by Luke Skywalker, Han Solo and Leia Organa?
We need to know these things and you'd be like, well, who are even any of them?
Why do we need to know that in the same way that we don't need to know
how how everything was running a thousand years ago?
We just don't need the information to understand how this all matters.
But like Han Solo and Leia having a divorce like, jeez,
you would have thought we want to we want to see how that went down.
But I guess not.
We'll just skip over all of those bits
in order to learn about our wonderful new characters known as Rey, Finn and Poe.
That went well, didn't it?
Yeah, the keys are introducing an important character
to an existing world that kind of should be explored, kind of should be explained.
Big deal.
Trilogy, the Emperor was just a two dimensional obstacle to be defeated
and taking out that obstacle in the second movie with a whole movie left to go
just kind of means that the third movie in the trilogy is less able
to stick to a predictable formula.
Womp womp womp.
Oh, this. Oh, no. Whoops.
Oh, see, I'm not blaming her at all because I think we were in the same position,
but the idea that they would resurrect Palpatine was not on anyone's mind.
It was like, no, they wouldn't do that.
Let's go. They only contacted
the actor for Creamy Sheev.
Like it was like late 2018.
Yeah, it was like basically a year before the movie came out.
So, yeah, I can I can say I understand how she came to this conclusion, but
well, didn't work out that way.
I was watching one of my favorite shows and on it.
Umna Gregor was talking about how a week before The Force Awakens came out.
He got a call from JJ asking him to come record that voiceover
only a week before the damn movie came out.
Wow. JJ always leaves things the last minute if you know, at all.
Which I think is a good thing.
I feel like the people who were so mad that Snoke died
wouldn't have even been mad if first he had been like,
I was once known by another name.
Darth Plagueis.
Yeah, we wanted Darth Plagueis.
How about that? Yeah, I would have preferred that.
Yeah, that's something I still wouldn't have been satisfied.
OK, your name. That's good.
I can actually infer a bunch from how you would have been able to do
everything you did, knowing that you're Darth Plagueis.
But there's still a couple of bits I need information on.
Well, I mean, you could tell it wasn't Darth Plagueis because Snoke wasn't immune.
Well, maybe you would have been trained by Darth Plagueis or something
that made some sense other than him just being a weird clone
that she made, which they threw.
I'm pretty sure I read like some kind of fucking excerpt.
It could have been on from one of the coverage from Geeks and Gamers,
but just the whole like, we thought that was a fun idea.
Like that was the input from the writers about that.
Snoke being a test to be like, though, be fun.
Anyway, moving on. Oh, OK.
At least they thought it was fun.
Even though that wouldn't inform us of anything new of his personality
or change his role in the story in any way.
Number nine, I can't believe Kylo Ren is the villain now.
He was the villain in The Force Awakens.
He killed someone in the first three minutes.
Wasn't he? I would. Yeah, I would downright say he was like
the driving force villain of the first film.
We open with him pursuing the droid and trying to capture our heroes, kill them.
Yeah, he was always the villain.
Why would you say this?
I don't know why you would say this very odd.
He's not even a good villain because I hate him.
He's just a whiny baby.
I think it's not even scary.
I think people who hate Kylo Ren as a villain
have a particular need to feel vicariously empowered
by seeing a big strong villain who can hit people really hard
and is good at everything.
You mean like Ray?
Yes, I don't want a whiny bitch
who loses to the protagonist the first time they meet.
Well, what does everyone look for in a villain?
It's clearly not Kylo fucking red, is it?
No, it's not Kylo Ren.
It's like the opposite of Kylo Ren, like clever, conniving, determined.
He has a purpose.
He believes what he's doing is right or justified.
He enacts plans and he tries to foil the heroes.
He's powerful in at least some way.
We just want a reason to give a shit about the pair,
like the peril that the good guys are going to be put in later.
That's, you know, I believe.
Maybe she was just back and forth here.
Like, I feel like if I was in a room with Kylo,
they'd be like, hi, I guess.
I, Kyle, what you doing today?
Oh, when you said a moon, you meant a species rather than immune.
I thought you said like the species.
That's why I thought you said immune.
Yeah, like immune.
What is immune?
I'm saying he is a moon like.
What's that teach us immune?
It's the you remember in episode two, when they're there with Count Dooku
and the one guy says the banking clan will join them, that's immune.
Oh, that's the type of species that's like us.
Well, you still could have said he was like up and if you just had force
awakened, you could have still made him that species.
And the what we saw in force wagons was just a hologram, right?
Like a fake good on that.
Because I'm trying to remember to snoke have a nose.
Yeah, it's like a weird like kind of more style nose.
Yeah, he has a nose.
OK, and yeah, munes don't have noses and their faces are a lot longer.
Fair enough.
But yeah, like Kylo,
I just have so much trouble understanding or getting behind him
when it's just every fucking movie.
It's I don't know if I'm a good man.
I don't know if I'm a bad man.
And this all the wild bodies are just piling up behind him.
But you're like slashing people and blowing up planets is like, am I the bad guy?
And am I?
That's why they kept snook around to be like, OK, he's definitely bad.
But this guy, we're still wondering about him, whether or not
he's going to stick with Snoke or, you know, redeem himself.
Because that was him and Ray.
Yeah, now we just have some asshole like, oh, my good or bad.
But he has but he has to also do the bad stuff to fill in the gap
that was left by Snoke, by Snoke, by Snoke's death.
So. Oh, is it the same species as Kiati Mundi?
That's for I guess.
Oh, what?
Would its species be the same as Kiati Mundi's?
Let me look.
I'm being informed that that is the case.
And knowing the characters.
No. All right.
No. Yeah.
A couple of people in chat saying, oh, so.
Damn style species being all complicated.
How am I going to get you a picture of dark freakin play?
I guess I some people have been sending a few in
from places I can.
This one's apparently him being badass.
Oh, I'll put it on screen in a second.
God's pleasure.
Oh, I don't think he.
Look at him go.
Oh, my goodness.
He's he's he's stopping these ninjas.
Eating these tiny people.
They don't got nothing.
One of the backs like y'all.
What if they're both?
I'm imagining the two guys in the back actually approaching him.
They just move really weird.
Like they're walking toward him in these really fucked up ways.
Yeah, we're coming to get you.
Anyway, that's that's fun.
So I guess what we can say is that whatever Snoke is,
it's not really established within the canon.
Yeah. Fucking well, do we he's a he's a clone of.
Well, do we know what he's a clone of?
No, I that's not any kind of.
I thought they were failed clones of Palpatine.
That's what I thought as well, but that's not made clear.
All right.
Well, I guess we'll do it.
Exactly. Just humanoid male.
It I guess now they have his species is artificially created humanoid now, I guess.
Strictly test you, baby, just from scratch.
It I don't maybe he's got it.
It looks like they had a person blueprint, but they fucked it up.
He does have an aquarium full of them.
Yes, real floating around.
Says that his it says his hair color is white.
Oh, his eyebrows, I guess they say they like the specific
it was a white eyebrows.
Well, there you go.
That's that's just know that
he can grow hair. That's important.
The Last Jedi asked them if they liked Rogue One.
OK, I'm not going to go too deep into my fandom psychology seminar,
but let's go. Oh, please do my girl.
Kylo Ren as a villain because he's whiny and threatening.
Ask them if they love the character Negan from The Walking Dead.
I'm trying to think of all the blockbuster movies.
What does this have to do with Rogue One?
OK, here's your argument.
I did watch this far and this is where I got this is where I got so annoyed
that I kind of was like, I'm not going to watch this until we do it live.
OK, so her her point here is that she's not afraid of Snoke
and she's not afraid of Kylo, but guess what?
And this is this is something to do.
This is not a negative statement on Jenny in any major way,
but nobody who's not a child is actually afraid of stuff that happens in films.
That's reality.
What people say when they mean they're afraid of a character
is that they feel they have like a terrifying presence
or they feel that the character is capable of doing something
in the narrative that is scary or that is intimidating to the to the protagonist.
That's what they mean by that.
They don't mean that they're physically or emotionally afraid of the character.
Does that make sense?
Well, yeah, I haven't even seen The Walking Dead.
And he is more a spoopy than what I know.
I thought he was really threatening.
Am I wrong? Like, I thought he was the guy.
He's the guy with the barbed wire baseball bat in me.
Yeah. And the first one you were totally afraid of characters.
Sorry, Jenny. Sorry.
Sorry. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
I'm so sorry. You call that a Jenny.
Oh, my God.
Fucking God damn it. I'm sick too.
Um, yeah, as far as I was aware, he was super threatless.
Let's roll it back. See exactly what she said.
Yeah, we're listening to what she says.
And you see, she's going to go too deep into my fandom psychology seminar.
But let's play another quick game.
If people say they hate Kylo Ren as a villain because he's whiny and
unthreatening, ask them if they love the character Negan from The Walking Dead.
I'm trying to think of all the blockbuster movies I've enjoyed
and trying to remember which ones had a villain that I was genuinely afraid of
in real life. And I guess when I was a kid,
I was only afraid of in real life.
That's weird. She didn't finish her point about Negan, though.
Where we go with that. Or Rogue One.
Yeah, she broke Rogue One.
Then she went to Negan.
It's like now she's talking about whether or not she's been afraid
in real life by a fictional character.
What do you like if if I was stuck in a room with Negan,
I would be far more afraid for my life than if I was stuck in a room
with Snoke or Kylo Ren?
I don't know. Well, I don't I wouldn't know what to think
if I was in a room with Kylo Ren.
I'd be like, I don't know that you would kill me.
I don't know. I'd be like, I'd be like, yo.
Are you evil right now?
And he's like, are you evil right now?
Are you then now or?
With Snoke, I'd be like, hey, man.
I mean, it's just us.
There's no point kill me, right?
With Negan, I'd be like, dude, calm down.
I know that you like to bash people's brains into stuff, but.
Please don't kill me.
The scary judge from Roger Rabbit was scary.
Those mutants from The Hills Have Eyes were scary.
That's not a good movie with villains, as with any character.
I think what makes them good is if they have an interesting personality.
Kylo Ren is extremely just advocating for how like we had to yeet Snoke
because he wasn't interesting.
It's like you could have made him interesting.
I can I can hear Lovecraft rolling over in his grave.
In relation to I feel like that Lovecraft
has been rolling over in his grave for so long,
he's become a perpetual motion machine at this point.
You would love Rise of Skywalker, OK?
Yeah, he does, but.
Extremely emotional and unstable, which makes him unpredictable.
And I don't know the unpredictability is not necessarily a trait
that people tend to like, do they?
Like, like in terms of understanding a villain and it's like,
oh, you don't know what he's going to do next or why?
It's like, it can be unpredictability can be, you know, like with with the jury,
he's unpredictable and that's what we still know.
There's still like a
not like Kylo, Kylo Ren is unpredictable in the sense that we have no idea
if he's on the good guys team or the bad guys team in any other scene.
Like, it's just like, what's going on with him?
I don't know.
But it's not necessarily good done terribly wrong.
Right. I think that it's a it's a good characteristic to have like a baseline
in terms of the psychology of how we perceive characters. Right.
We basically start with a basic perception of what a character is.
And we go, oh, they're this or they're that.
And then we engage in re categorization.
And if our re categorization doesn't work and we can't put them into a neat little
box, we go into attribution and we individuate that character.
It's why people would excuse absolutely
everything that Walter White did, for example, why everything
when people would excuse everything that Tony Soprano did,
because they say, well, I this character has these unique attributes.
But when the character isn't complex enough to have that kind of stuff,
then we do put them into basic categorization boxes.
That's just how we work psychologically.
Our brains aren't they get a huge amount of energy.
So generally speaking, we want to like make really simple categories.
Like this character is a hero, this character is a villain.
And they don't fall into these neat categories.
We have to individuate them.
And there's not enough information about Kylo in particular to really individuate
him to a point where we would be able to make this kind of complex decisions
about the character. That's just what the data indicate.
Sure. I just connecting like she likes him because he's very emotional
and often unpredictable.
I just be like, um, Kylo ran most of them, pretty much any other character
I think I've experienced is just every time he's on screen.
I'm like, so what even you know, when he's like, um, he's got in
Rise of Skywalker at the beginning, he's like, he clearly wants to just
take over the world because seems to be his thing, but then like halfway
through, he just sort of loses interest.
He's like, Hey, Ray, I'm going to make you evil and we're gonna rule together.
And you're like, okay, all right.
I guess that's sort of a, that's a through line from wanting to go over the world.
I can sort of see that.
And then she like stabs him and says, you should be a good person.
And then he's like, hmm.
And like, for me, I'm just like, fuck sake.
Like, I don't know that cause with Vader, it was just constantly getting
pounded into him that like, I'm your son.
I care about you.
I know that there's a person inside you that's not willing to just let
everything fall apart and be evil and stuff.
And it's just, we're waiting for Vader to finally make the decision
whether or not he will.
That's why it's like so climactic in that last scene with Kylo.
It's like, you kind of just flip flop several soil and fuck me.
The characters seem to be okay with it.
Even Palpatine, when Palpatine's like, you're not betraying me.
Are you kind of like, no, I would, I would not do that.
Especially given my track record.
I would not do that.
I don't even know that he would register as betrayal.
Cause he doesn't even know what side he's on.
Even like, I think, I don't know.
It depends how I feel today.
And yeah, I don't know.
I just don't find that compelling myself.
I suppose.
I'm just want something to build up, especially after three movies.
Like fucking hell.
Right.
And to me, that makes him a good villain and you want to see him reformed or I do
to me, the fact that he's a former good guy and he has a mom that loves him.
And he has a weird handholding connection with Rey and he cries.
Oh, what do you know?
Something can only happen because of Snoke of which we got no explanation on or
anything majorly like the hand holding thing too.
Really cringy though and good company, but let's be honest.
Oh, they held hands.
Oh, no.
In the rain.
Yeah.
Apparently they really were falling for each other.
I guess.
If that's the according to rise of Skywalker, cause they took that even further.
They, and then he died and she didn't even care.
Yeah.
She's sort of just like, Oh, well, yeah, she's like, whatever.
I am this guy.
Well, for now,
and she doesn't even cry is like, this is the guy you're in love with.
And he just died after saving you.
And you're not even going to shed a tear.
What was it?
Was it love?
I'm like, Oh, yeah.
That's the question.
Did she love him in any way that we've ever been shown?
She doesn't love anyone except that weird father like thing with Han Solo.
It's really weird.
Yeah.
I like how there's no, you know, some people might be like, she's not like she
saw it was a father's like, no, that was confirmed.
Like, yeah, I looked inside her head and pointed that out.
It's like, Oh, okay.
Maybe she was in love with Kylo because she saw Han in
which was kind of, that's really creepy, though.
So the closest thing I can get to Han is in like, you're literally
the only thing left of that bloodline right now.
Yeah.
I hope he's going to die.
We don't have a real villain.
He's extremely strong in the force.
Remember when he stopped that blaster bolt with his mind powers?
I remember when he got his ass kicked by someone who had no training.
Yeah.
Did she just call the force mind powers?
Well.
Remember when when Rey anti tortured him with her mind
when she didn't have any training?
Yeah, he's really fucking strong in the force.
Yeah, it just depends on what the plot needs of the time.
Can we?
Oh, my skills and my then they're mindy man.
All right.
And like he's not in a low key.
Jeez, I just feel so bad that I accidentally called you Jenny.
Yeah, I feel so bad.
Maybe you want powers.
I actually like a second.
I think it's OK.
It's confirmed, Aiden thinks that all women are the same.
I do.
Oh, my God.
This is supposed to be our diverse and welcoming stream, not our hatred stream.
Gosh, fucked up.
He's extremely strong in the force.
Remember when he stopped that blaster bolt with his mind powers?
And like he's he's low key crazy.
So it's not low key, low key crazy, low key, very high key, the highest of keys.
Low key crazy.
No, I think he might get redeemed.
I think you're echoing in.
Yeah, I just I'm sorry, Jenny.
I had this problem last time.
Don't fucking start this shit.
God damn it.
I'm just going to mute myself in a place because I don't know how to fix it.
OK, do you?
He had like a fight against Poe Dameron or something.
I would still be worried he might kill him.
It doesn't seem like he wouldn't do that in any family action movie.
You know that ultimately the good guys are going to win.
If Snoke was still around, there would.
So this this is interesting about, you know, considering he said this
and then said we're upset that Snoke was killed because he was killed.
Well, we knew this all along.
It's just kind of odd counters.
That was one of our characters to it, but she's apparently accepted that.
So, OK. All right.
Moving on. Never mind, then.
Wouldn't be a lot of tension over whether or not Ray was going to kill Snoke.
You know Snoke's going to die.
But with Kylo Ren, there's a couple different directions that it can go.
And I think that's interesting.
Like he could stay evil and die.
He could sacrifice himself and die.
He could turn good and literally anything could happen because Kylo is just.
You know, let's be honest, let's be honest.
These stories as as bad as the sequel trilogy is
are going to still follow in their very sad attempt, the Joseph Campbell paradigm.
Right. Which means that Kylo Ren has to die for what he for killing his own father
for Patricide, and it's not just that's not just Joseph Campbell.
That is all of mythology.
He's going to have to die for what he did.
OK, that that's going to happen.
You don't get retribution for that at this point.
So didn't you actually think that anyone working on these new Star Wars movies
knows anything about Joseph Campbell?
You're giving them way too much leeway.
They're like, oh, you mean the soup guy?
Yeah, sorry.
We're probably giving them way too much.
Yeah, I mean, at least Lucas did.
And that's what Lucas based his shit around.
And I would expect them to base it around the same paradigm
because that's what every single thing is in all of human history has been based on
in terms of the hero's journey.
And this stuff is not it's Campbell put it into it into, you know,
that they're trying to subvert expectations.
Oh, it doesn't work.
Oh, it really does not work, though, does it?
And they're trying.
That's the that means that they're good films because they tried.
I'm glad we all agree on that.
I'm going to judge the laughter as I agree.
So good.
He could sacrifice himself and die.
He could turn good and live, but he is going to get reformed.
I am sure of it.
And anyway, Kylo Ren is an all work out, didn't it now?
Guys, well, I'm not going to do that.
Well, he's still got hugs.
Wait, what did she say?
The I think I think you guys are ahead of me.
Oh, you're a power 45.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm full 41.
Um, oh, my God, you reset it.
And I can grab a different directions that it can go.
And I think that's interesting.
Like he could stay evil and die.
He could sacrifice himself and die.
He could turn good and live, but he is going to get reformed.
I'm sure of it.
And anyway, Kylo Ren isn't all we got in the way of villains.
We still have a hug.
There we go.
Okay.
Now you see what we're laughing about.
Yeah.
Well, Ripp Hux.
He's barely even in Rise of Skywalker.
He's just a tool.
And he's literally a tool.
God, she mentioned the Knights of Ren.
Literally.
Oh, the Knights of Ren were my biggest disappointment,
I have to say, because if you read some of the shit about them,
they sound really cool, but then they don't do anything.
Thanks.
I like how she mentions these.
It's like, hey, we still got these.
Like not even JJ made these and you didn't care about them.
But also like said how the Knights of Ren just go looking for her,
even though they can track her ship and they go in like a search party
altogether into the splitting up.
It's really confusing.
I don't know what the hell their goal was.
Like they let them go in order to chase them.
And their goal is to capture and kill them.
It's very strange.
And you even have Poe recognizing that in the script.
Like they're not chasing us.
I don't trust it.
It's like, what do you mean by that?
Why would they not be chasing you?
I don't understand.
It's so strange.
The whole script is so strange.
Because, you know, the second they captured Chewy Poe and Finn,
they're like, yeah, kill him.
Oh, wow.
You guys, that's your only goal right now is to just wipe them out.
Okay, I understand.
Yeah, just let him live.
Let him live so he can be rescued.
You had like this this outfit of first order troops with those two transport
ships and the Knights of Ren and they were like a couple of meters away
from the hero ship for a while.
That scene is such a disaster on the desert planet.
It's so strange, like watching it.
It's like, what is everyone doing?
You guys are all right next to each other.
We don't seem to care.
That's one of the most bizarre scenes in that film.
When when Ray just walks out into the desert for no reason.
Um, hey, like we really gotta get out of here.
Absolutely bizarre.
I think that like, even by her own explanation, let's be real.
You have a big bad established in Snoke and she's not saying, well,
we still have the Knights of Ren.
We still have Hux.
Hux, who is what?
Like a mid level, especially after The Lost Jedi.
Hux is embarrassing.
Like who cares about Hux at this point?
He's just pushed over all the time.
But he makes those like those noises like.
Maybe in the best in the best of circumstances,
maybe we have the Knights of Ren being potentially.
A threat, I guess, but not Hux.
Yeah, the Knights of Ren.
The problem is that he's just you've got you got to build them up in the one movie.
Because all we know is they exist up to these these two movies have only told us
this group of people that called the Knights of Red.
It's like, okay.
Right, we haven't seen anything about them.
And in fact, what I know about them is all from supplemental material,
which makes them sound really cool,
which only makes what actually happened to them so much later.
We saw them in the Force Awakens, though, in that weird flashback scene.
Yeah, we know they exist.
They're a group of guys, I think they have armor sort of they have somewhat.
Did you just assume they're tender?
How dare you.
I'm sorry.
I said I don't know.
I can't know if they could be totally useless.
They could be all women, and you don't even know.
Do you hear all of the female stormtroopers in Red Skywalker?
Wow.
All kidnapped every single one.
Well, yeah, every single fucking way with a crafted from the force by Palpatino
with a kidnapped children.
I can't remember who knows anymore.
Or where they went and the entire first order.
My finger is bleeding.
I'm going to go get a band-aid.
Shark week.
Band-aids because sharks like blood.
Number eight.
There's nothing.
What the fuck are you?
I mean, I don't know what else.
See, I'm human, guys.
I bleed.
I don't think that.
Yeah, all right.
I'm not a product created by Disney and a factory.
I think this is a part of what I would assume is her brand, right?
She's like, it's cutesy.
I think that point was that, I guess.
I mean, she's cute.
She's cute.
You know, I guess that's the brand.
She's cute.
Let's be real.
She's cute.
She looks fine.
Sounds like she's on down.
I don't like it.
Like she's always.
I'm not trying to be mean.
Like she's fair of faucet.
I don't like it.
I mean, I'm fine with it.
I don't mind.
I'm fine.
She put on a plaster.
It's fine.
My voice is all fucked because I'm sick, but I think we can read and be like,
hello, I am a robot.
I'm reading from my.
Why you want your make out robot?
This is better than all of you do.
Pity poo, pity.
Because they virtually ended the story or this movie was pointless because the status
quo was unchanged.
One thing you know, this movie was essentially rendered pointless.
Yeah, I was going to say, we actually know now that it's a movie that can be removed
from the trilogy and it wouldn't really matter.
So I guess the criticism she's addressing is the one that a lot of people do typically throw
at the last Jedi is the we're left with nothing to work with by the end of it.
I think also the idea doesn't change the status quo.
I don't know that you have to do that in a Star Wars film.
It certainly changed the status quo for Star Wars for a lot of people.
I was going to say like Snoke died.
So you'd have to argue that there's a status quo change to a degree.
It doesn't really change anything in the wider scale of things.
Like everything seems to run normally, you know, like Snoke dying doesn't really do much.
Kylo Red just takes his position.
It's like because they didn't do anything with him.
Yeah, we did.
The problem is we didn't know how important he was anyway.
So him die is just like, oh, I don't know.
Does anyone care?
It's like, no, like, okay.
Um, and so then, yeah, the problem with the TLJ is that if we were picking it up for our
explosive ending to this trilogy, it's just like, right.
What are we working with?
It's like a bunch of people are in a ship.
Explosive.
Like, hmm, not, not much.
And the comparisons you can make are just most trilogies.
The second one ends off with a bunch of things to work with.
Just just off the top of my head.
Like matrix.
Twenty dudes on a ship is something to.
Pirates of the Caribbean, Lord of the Rings.
Because you have the twenty people on a ship at the end of The Last Jedi.
That transforms into like a base on a planet.
Yes, I don't know, whatever.
I don't know where they got it from or how they paid for it or who they got it from.
Especially when, uh, when Poe talks about like reinforcements, he's like,
the last time we tried this, they all abandoned us.
Like, so you haven't since then tried to get more help, right?
Meaning you guys just found the planet.
Lad did with the falcon and you somehow managed to just sort all of this out.
I don't know.
Yeah, resources are weird.
Well, the whole idea is ridiculous when Lando shows up with all of his reinforcements and
Rides the Skywalker.
I don't think you could convince those people to do it.
If you like, go to this crazy, dangerous planet to fight thousands of star destroyers.
It's like, no.
Yeah, they're like, all right, Lando, we're here.
So who are we fighting?
They don't have big guns or anything, right?
Someone sent me a message on Twitter that actually gave the exact number.
Let me go find it because it was way more than we thought.
It was like hundreds of millions of people.
Millions.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Okay.
The Emperor Palpatine's final order had 10,000 Sith star destroyers, each housed in a crew of
29,585.
This means the resistance and their allied fleet killed roughly 296 million people in the
Battle of Exegol.
Oh my God.
They were people.
They were force droids.
It kind of looks like people.
Is there any confirmation that they're...
Is there any explanation as to where they came from?
Star Wars tweets.
Star Wars facts at Twitter.
SW tweets.
I don't have any idea if that's realistic or not, but again, I was basing my estimate
on my understanding of Star Trek, which is completely stupid.
So it's stupid to apply somewhat realistic metrics to Star Wars now, because apparently
we can have armies of that size just all dying in a battle, just blowing up.
As we've learned, maths doesn't apply to Star Wars in any way, shape, or form.
Just go up.
Neither does life and death.
These fundamentals, like, nope, Star Wars is not subscribing to those.
What's about these critiques is that they directly contradict each other,
but I have been hearing both with equal frequency.
Okay, so that means one of them's right and one of them's wrong?
Although they come from different people, so they're not really
contradictive, unless you've heard it from the same person, I guess.
Both equally baffling statements to me.
The people who say the status quo hasn't changed usually say,
Kylo Ren is still evil, Rey is still not trained, Luke is still gone,
the First Order is still in power.
Yeah, hence why you can skip this movie.
I was just like, anybody? Okay.
Luke is still gone. I find that interesting.
Luke's in the film a lot.
Yeah, well, so the idea being that he was gone for all the Force Awakens,
and by the end of TLJ, he's dead.
I guess the argument being that he didn't really do anything.
Like, he turned up to distract Kylo for a minute, I guess.
Yeah.
Because he killed himself in doing so.
Yeah.
And then it was confirmed that he didn't have to have killed himself.
Oh, it's my brain.
There's a thing about how his axe wings shouldn't even work
because he used a part of one of the wings as the door to his little room.
He got another one.
Yeah, he just got another one. That's fine.
There's a spare. He had a spare in the trunk.
I think.
Before the Resistance is still struggling, nothing happened.
But like, the status quo changed in a huge way.
There were several moments where I was like, I can't believe they went there.
The Resistance wasn't doing too hot before, but now they have like 30 people.
Well, that's irrelevant.
Yeah, they didn't have many people in the first one either, really.
But see, that is where you would start a trilogy, I think.
The idea that like, our Resistance team has 30 members.
But the end of the trilogy, it's like, oh, guys, we got to shore up these numbers
because otherwise you can't get your because you're obviously going to want an explosive finale.
I guess we could have done a completely different kind of movie
being the espionage kind of focus.
The espionage chef would have made sense.
But the whole thing is illogical because from the start of it shouldn't.
The whole idea of a resistance against a empire that you thought was destroyed is silly.
Why is there a resistance?
Oh, well, of course, they don't.
There's no world building that goes back to Force Awakens.
Because they had that active while the Republic was active.
And I know that there's like the explanations in the books.
The Leia wanted them to be more militarized and they disagreed with her and they became
like too passive.
And so she split off to make her Resistance in case an empire should rise.
Imagine that was in the movie.
But did did did the Republic, though, have no military force?
Because that's what's implied.
Oh, they were all wiped out, basically.
Yeah, they all just died.
But over the course of 30 years, they never built up any other military force.
And any that they did was wiped out in those five planets.
Apparently, they were all just either on the planets or surrounding the planets.
And they all got blown up.
Well, yeah, that was another smart decision for their military.
I mean, you have a giant galaxy full of thousands of planets and you have them based on like
only five.
And those five are like they're all in the same system.
They're all too close to each other, too.
Like they wouldn't be able to function that way.
They would all just crash into each other.
Something like that.
You needed the shot to look cool.
Okay.
Did you just like throwing up planets?
That's what it comes down to.
Really does.
Yeah.
Stop blowing up planets.
It's just an idiot.
No argument.
I think you're just like silence.
Like, yeah.
Aiden, what did you think of JJ's track?
I hated it so much that it makes me angry.
Oh, thank you.
How could I not in the first movie?
He blows up my home planet of Takasi for no reason other than just blow up a planet with
his red matter.
Fuck you, Jay.
You just managed to subvert your expectations.
Yeah, he didn't.
He subverted my expectations and that I expected a decent Trek film.
I know that.
And it said it was a bad story.
It was a mediocre Star Wars movie.
So it's the best Star Wars movie we've had in a while.
I would say that that Star Trek 2009 is probably a better Star Wars movie than any of the sequels.
Oh, my God.
It's probably true.
I remember thinking that it wasn't a disaster, which is kind of where I'm at with.
Then again, I'm not a Star Trek fan, so that's probably why.
You don't understand.
Yeah.
Can get trained as a Jedi because she has the Jedi books and looks a freaking ghost now.
So he could show up.
Yeah, that's why.
That's why, guys, she has the books.
She can get trained.
That's not actually a counter argument.
Well, wait, because if if if the argument she's addressing
is that Rey has not been trained by the end of The Force Awakens,
Rey is still not been trained by the end of The Force Awakens.
And her argument is, yeah, but she can be trained.
Like, yeah, yeah, that's not really the point.
Yeah, that's not.
Yeah, this doesn't actually fix anything.
You could have had fucking anybody show up to train you ancient Jedi text.
It's like, OK, I have a manual for my car that doesn't make me a mechanic, you know.
Right, but she read them thoroughly.
And, you know, the main thing, she went through and was able to fix my car.
It had it.
There was loads of really good instructions.
It was like, step one, make sure you know how to read.
It's just like that.
You go to school.
I can believe she learned how to read on Jakku.
That's not too far of a stretch.
It's just like that.
That dumb shit from the new Ninja Turtles movie that came out in 2014.
Well, I splinter trained the turtles with his book.
He found in a sewer.
I mean, wait, you know, the Jedi text, are they even written?
Like, what are they written in?
I don't know.
Because I would actually have a problem with how could she read whatever they're written in?
Are they translated?
I don't know.
But it's probably in basic, but still, I mean, language changes so much over time.
That's why when you read Shakespeare, it's like you have to have like,
at least, you know, when you're high school, you have to have a teacher walk you through it
because you're not going to understand old English.
And it's like, you telling me this chick that grew up on a desert planet
that probably has never gone to school in her life.
Not only is she all of a sudden going to know how to read,
but she's going to understand old basic.
I don't buy that for a second.
No, I don't like that.
But you're right.
Like, she would need someone to explain it to her in terms of what it means.
And there's nobody left.
Yeah, kind of the issue.
I guess like did Leah.
I mean, like we retcon that and that Leah was trying.
Oh, my God, we could always talk about that.
Terrible CGI.
But I guess Leah understood old basic enough to translate it for her.
That's not explained because they didn't have enough of Carrie Fisher.
I mean, she might be able to use like one of their computers to do it.
But but still, it's like, this is all very far off.
Well, I'm OK with it being translated.
Plenty of people in that base could probably translate.
I just meant like she seems to be reading the books from the books.
You know, I don't know.
That's surprising to me.
The more questionable stuff.
100,000 years old.
You would think that she would be very careful handling those.
The more questionable stuff, I think, is like the fact that she could swim,
she could sail successfully on extremely choppy seas,
even though the locals are like, don't do it.
It's too dangerous.
Like, that's so funny.
It's just that good.
She's amazing.
There's no freaking way she would have survived that with those words,
because I mean, I've been kayaking since I was a kid.
And the last time I went to Hawaii, I kayaked from one island to the other.
It was a pain in the fucking ass.
And I mean, that's I've been doing it since I was a kid.
She grew up on a desert fucking planet.
You're telling me she all of a sudden knows how to do that with 300 foot waves.
She would have died.
I don't care if you have the force.
Didn't you see her sliding down the hill and the force awakens on the sand?
She knows exactly how to say a kayak.
Same thing.
Those people are saying C-3PO in chat.
Yeah, there's not just C-3PO.
There's loads of people that could translate the books.
I'm talking about the fact that she reads them directly.
But I think the thing with 3PO, and one of my biggest issues with that is that we have to look at
this is just on the side as to why 3PO couldn't translate the Sith is that it's literally a
physical switch inside of droids that would allow them to be able to have that kind of
stuff turned on or turned off based on my understanding.
And you probably know way better than I do.
So you could flick a literal switch in him that wouldn't require him to lose his entire
memory to turn off that safety.
Or you just save it on a USB.
Last drive, you can plug into him, download his memory, do your switch, and then plug
it back in and re-upload it.
You're telling me in this time, with all the technology, you don't have that.
Nope, can't be done.
Why didn't they just have it float over?
It'd have been more realistic than a stupid sailing thing.
Yeah, like you can fly.
Just fly over the waves.
We've established that you can fly.
Why did you fly at any other point in the film?
That was done for the look of it without realizing the utility whatsoever,
which they do that a lot in the sequels.
They're like, yeah, cool.
It was like, wouldn't it be cool if she flew?
And everyone's like, yeah, yeah, that'd be cool.
Also, apparently, cynic snacks is having fun on Twitter.
It's like, the guy said, who has the time to watch eFab?
He's like, at least 100,000 people.
Like, yeah, that episode.
Somebody was going off on my Twitter saying,
I can't believe you're talking about Jenny Nicholson again.
Why would you cover her last Jedi instead of the rise of Skywalker?
And it's like, oh, my God, you don't have to watch it.
Yeah, I mean, you're not even covering the right videos from her.
He's like, OK, what does that even like?
Why would we know?
I think this is important because it puts this stuff all into perspective, right?
It's showing how like this take has aged like milk.
Yeah, I don't see why people wouldn't be more interested in seeing this one.
Like, look at how she feels about this film and compare it to the new film that's released.
Isn't this not interesting?
It's not like I don't know.
Is the logic here that we shouldn't cover anything that's older the next amount of years?
Apparently, well, because I'm telling you right now,
if we all went back and looked at our videos about the last Jedi,
they probably aged very well as compared to people like Jenny that loved it.
They didn't age so well, did they?
I mean, yeah, like, like, as far as I'm aware, the way it works is if she had said on Twitter
something along the lines of I completely denounce everything I've said in this video,
it's all inaccurate.
Well, we wouldn't know, Mueller, because we're all blocked.
True.
But I was also just going to say that, like, there would be a consideration
for not covering it at that point.
I'd be like, well, if she doesn't agree with anything in here, then I guess,
you know, there's not a lot of point that we can still address the arguments,
but we would just have to clarify that they're not attributed to her anymore
because she doesn't believe in them.
But I'm pretty sure she stands by this video, right?
If I made a video that I completely was like, whoa, I was 1000% wrong with that.
I would probably not remove it, but I would make an update video and be like,
hey, I'm not going to remove that video.
But I want to say like, wow, I was wrong.
That's just what I would do.
Personally, I don't.
Yeah, I mean, I just I find it interesting to look back,
especially now that we've seen Rise of Skywalker.
So cool.
He could appear to Kylo Ren.
I don't know what they're going to do with that.
But they could do things with that.
Frankly, I didn't even understand people's interest in seeing Rey get trained in this movie.
I thought her what?
This is the problem, Jenny, is that you're not an intelligent person.
This is the issue.
This is the problem.
You can't even understand why you can't even disagree with it.
You can't even understand why people would want it.
That's the problem.
It was it was supposed to make up for Force Awakens.
That was the whole point.
It was like, finally, just I know you're late.
I know you're late.
But you can trade it out so you can justify a lot of things.
What was her training?
Rey, the Force exists.
There's good and bad.
Oh, OK.
Don't go into the hole and see a thousand.
Don't go into the anus of the island.
Don't go into the island's dark.
People would like to just see a little bit, I think, you know,
like just a little bit, not just looping like, oh, you're super evil.
So I'm not going to do anything about it.
You're super powerful.
I like living you are a genuine.
Those reactions with both of the what the statement is so disagreeable.
It's like I want to watch a Star Wars movie about a girl becoming a Jedi
and her learning how to become a Jedi, but I don't want to see her train at all.
How moronic.
I don't know.
Just just play the KOTOR games and you can see a girl become a Jedi.
Either one of them.
One of those right now.
That's so good.
Well, they have some flaws, but.
Oh, yeah, I'm about had it with Karth right now, but still.
My husband.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry.
Cough, dude.
Oh, man, you are.
What a what an asshole.
Have you played the games rocks?
Oh, yeah, Karth, man, we go way back.
Yeah.
Karth and I, we would sail across the Death Star ocean together.
Yes, it's a place.
It's a place to get with roads.
Karth has a character that every five seconds wants to talk about their feelings
and makes you stop your mission.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, that's toxic.
But then they don't want to talk about it and it just irks my soul.
And it's like, God damn it.
I don't care.
He's got a lot of feelings.
What's the name of the guy in KOTOR 2, though?
I don't want to spoil anything, I guess, if you're playing through them.
But who's who's the end of it of every fucking Bioware game?
I like him better than Karth.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Jim.
Yeah, let's go with Jim.
I'm thinking Carl.
Yeah, Carl.
Carl, the guy you can make you do a Jedi if you feel like it.
And then Carl.
Maybe Bit.
Bert and Ernie.
By the way, my aunt got back to me on that.
There's an Ernie who's also a woman you can turn into a Jedi
if you feel so inclined in KOTOR 2.
What did your aunt say?
I guess I should let our chat know that my aunt did get back to me
on the Bert and Ernie thing.
Let me.
Atten.
It's Bert and Ernie.
So some people say Bert and Ernie.
Some people say Ernie and Bert.
No one says Ernie and Bert.
It's Bert and Ernie.
I thought that was a troll.
I didn't think that you actually says Bitty and Bert.
So here's the thing.
Both of my aunts say Ernie and Bert.
Oh.
What?
I think that your aunts might be replicants.
I'll keep that in mind.
Well, because I mean, I went to the Jim Henson exhibit a few years ago
and it is Bert and Ernie.
I've always known it as Bert and Ernie, but you can be wrong.
It's fine.
I guess I trust Rags as aunts more than I do basically anyone else.
Yeah, they know.
They I just I just feel like they would know a lot about this sort of thing.
They're like the Oracle compass of one of their opinions on the last Jedi.
Yeah.
Shit about Star Wars.
I'm sure they'd hate it.
They have to.
They have to.
Anyway.
Move along.
Frankly, I didn't even understand people's interest in seeing Rey get
trained in this movie.
I thought her status as like a scrappy underdog who.
Scrappy underdog.
Scrappy underdog.
You can still be a scrappy underdog and train.
And oh my God.
That's the funniest shit I've ever fucking heard.
Oh, how did you?
Scrappy, Rey is a scrappy underdog.
How is she going to be able to pull it off?
I don't know.
I don't know, man.
No, can't you do it on the scrappy do for me?
Scrappy underdog.
Oh my goodness.
Fuck Scrappy.
Oh no.
How could she ever overcome these songs?
I wonder how.
Just people that shout like I'm the dog.
No.
I don't know how you got there.
Tristan seeing Rey get trained in this movie.
I thought her status as like a scrappy underdog who knows how to
hit people good with a stick, but doesn't have any formal
training is kind of what made her.
Why the fuck does she need formal training?
That's how she can beat the shit.
Oh, excuse me.
I was going to say, I don't know if she can beat the shit out of a
trained lightsaber.
Someone who's trained in how to use a lightsaber.
I don't care that he had a cut in his side.
That makes Sith stronger.
Ding dong.
Yeah.
The pain.
Oh my God.
But she knows how to use a stick.
Even even Snoke says he's a loser for being beaten by.
Yeah, I don't.
I mean, at what point are we just going to apply this to
everything?
Every story.
The good guy is just he has to be just how what's the point of
practicing anything?
What's the point of training in anything?
So the bad guy trains and trains and devotes himself.
Probably training is being demonized.
Praise.
Yeah, it's because I hope you have talent.
Is training and trying things is like oppressive or something.
Imagine telling your kid that is like, dad, if I practice and
practice, will I be good at something?
It's like, no, it's just you just are.
You just are.
You aren't really are.
This is literally the gold star for participation mentality.
That's what this is.
You try something.
She's an underdog for like five minutes when she gets
captured.
It's like, yes, which enables her to rescue herself.
Like this is the thing about when you think about the plot
does for characters like Ray.
It's pretty crazy.
And you know, this isn't a joke.
The plot doesn't let her die even when she gets killed.
You're like, yeah, wow.
It only kills her for the express purpose of bringing her
back to life.
Evernessence.
Oh, and you know, this is the thing, right?
Like like what we used to get in terms of bad writing when
it came to training was like, oh, let me guess.
You can have a training montage, Rocky style, because everyone
knows you got to you got to earn the right to have this character
be able to do these things.
But nowadays, just like, no, not even that.
We're just not going to have training.
Yeah.
Oh, but you have you have a road map for this, right?
You could just look at Star Wars itself and see how Luke was
trained and see how he was trained in completely, but still
had some kind of capacity to understand how the force works.
But in this in this sequel trilogy, apparently, and tell
me if I'm wrong, all force powers are transmitted us like
telepathically by watch or by watching them or why someone
being related to them.
Oh, no, didn't you read the book that when they had their
force Skype call, when they touched fingers, Ray was able
to download all of the training that Kylo had.
And that's how she knows how to use the force.
Even though he's already done incredible things before that.
No, no, no, Molly.
I know that's because that was in the book.
Well, I haven't read the books because why would I do that?
But oh, my goodness.
Oh, I read the books.
I'm just saying that that is the argument that has been
screamed at me every time I say anything about it.
And it's like, wow, you hear how ridiculous you sound.
Fucking Yoda teaching all those kids.
Just download that shit, dude.
Let's just awkwardly touch fingers.
No, no, no, no.
Work with the textbook from the school textbook store.
You can't just download the copies.
Wow.
Also, how come Poe didn't learn how to use the force if he
when he got force tortured by different because he's not.
No, but but but wait, Finn's force sensitive out of nowhere.
Just I don't I don't know.
Sorry.
Makes sense.
It all fits.
It's like poetry.
It's like pottery.
It rhymes.
It's like pottery.
It spins.
I got spinning is a good trick.
The underdog knows how to hit people good with a stick,
but doesn't have any formal training is kind of what made her a good foil to
Kylo Ren because he's basically no that's retarded.
She is not a good foil to anyone.
She's a godlike scavenger person.
It's like somebody with a spoon.
It's like someone with a spoon.
It's someone with a sword.
Yes, I know you're correct.
You're right.
You're right.
But let me put it this way.
So in in D&D, there's a thing called wild magic, right?
Which is basically the idea that like you can't control your shit.
You have extreme magic, but you have no idea how to control it.
I would be OK if that's what raised shit was that she's like, oh, fuck.
And then like like force lightning comes out because she has no capacity to control it.
That would be OK.
And then if it's her with zero ability to control her force capacity and it's just like
pure shit versus Kylo, who is actually trained, she knows how to do stuff.
That would kind of be OK, I think maybe.
I just find it amusing to be like talking about foils like characters that really just
bounce off each other or into each other really well because of like conflicting values or
attributes.
And you've got like these two like Ray and Kylo, really.
Every time they bump into each other, he's just like, I want you to be a dark person.
She's like, no, that is like super racist.
I do not want to do that topic.
I'm good because I am good.
I'm glad we understood that across the three films.
It was very interesting.
The Jedi Prep School kid who's technically a prince and now literally an emperor.
And speaking of which, Kylo Ren is in charge of the first order now.
That's a huge status quo change.
So I brought that up earlier as being like there is a degree of status quo change.
But then I highlighted nothing really changes.
Yeah, nothing changes here.
He wants to stomp over the world.
Snoke did too.
He wants he has that's it.
What like what changes with him in charge?
Well, they keep doing what they're doing.
But with him in charge, they want to dominate the galaxy.
They've got loads of people doing all these things.
Snoke could have been alive in Rise of Skywalker, pulling the strings, quote unquote.
And we could have opened with Palpatine establishing.
By the way, no, it's nothing.
Like, yeah, he's sitting on that throne, but I control him.
Like, who cares?
You know, like he could have been alive in that film and it wouldn't have made a difference.
I also kind of want to close Kylo, a prince.
I don't understand where that comes from at all.
I guess because Princess Leia is a princess.
But Leia gave up her.
Yeah, but it's from a dead planet.
She yeah, right.
Like she stopped being a princess.
No, she's still a princess.
And even in the expanded universe, they still refer to her as it, even though her.
Because then everyone that escaped Alderaan's destruction, she's still their princess.
I thought she kind of like gave that up.
But I suppose, but still, like he's he's not really the kind of person that
has the sort of power that there that she's implying upon him or this position.
If we want to establish that Snoke was like nonimportant slash meh,
him dying is just what exactly do you think that changes?
Especially if someone the person who takes over has the exact same intentions as him,
which for some reason he does.
I would actually argue that it, you know, it would have been interesting to see what
Kylo is going to do with the First Order.
But as far as we can tell, especially from Rise of Skywalker, it's just like,
I don't know, just take over the world.
Like, OK.
You know, that's cool, though, you know.
But like status quo change, you're like, no, no.
Because even by the end of TLJ, all Kylo is doing is trying to crush the resistance.
So how is that different from Snoke when the whole movie was Snoke trying to crush the resistance?
Yeah, well.
I guess it's like the hope that something different will happen in the third
theoretical movie at this point, but they didn't do anything different outside of
he eventually turns good, but it doesn't matter because Pride exists and Pride is the fill-in
for, you know, bad guys who aren't Palpatine.
Pride is old Hux.
Yeah, Pride just, he's evil.
He wants to take over the world.
He wants to kill people.
Like, all right, again, nothing to really work with here.
Did he even want that?
I don't think so, based on his offer to Rey.
He has even less of a clear motivation than Snoke did.
And then he just does it.
His motivation seems to just literally be make people respect him.
And that's why he's so fun.
And now Hux has-
That's why he's fun.
He's fun.
He's fun.
He's not his father, but he's fun.
He's fun.
What a fun-
Having a great time.
Patricidal maniac.
He's fun.
We're having a great time.
And I mean, when really do we see him trying to make people respect him?
We watch him have a temper tantrum in an elevator smashing his mask.
That's not somebody that's looking for respect.
You just hate fun.
That's just a weird assessment of his character to me.
You know what I find so fun about him?
He wants people to respect him.
That's fun.
Okay.
I would ask you to elaborate on that.
Because I'd just be like, where's the part that you enjoy more specifically?
Task to work for him and he's miserable.
And Kylo Ren's miserable.
He's in charge of this army that he didn't want,
surrounded by people who hate him and want him dead.
He can leave.
What?
He's like a spaceship, he can leave.
How does that, everything she just described now, how does that make him fun still?
He's fun.
It almost sounds like an awkward sitcom.
Like Kylo Ren's like, god damn it, why'd you guys hate me?
And they're all like, proud to get him.
That's Kylo.
He's Kylo, Kylo.
You never really know what he's gonna do next.
Angry, he can be sad, he can be upset.
Probably bad.
Most importantly, he's fun.
He's fun.
You're just so funny, Kylo.
He's in charge of this army that he didn't want,
surrounded by people who hate him and want him dead.
The villains are just on what?
Surrounded by people who hate him and want him dead.
Is she, is she telling us no, go to the hucks?
Can you be surrounded by one person?
I don't think so.
They're really fat, right?
Think about twice.
Who wants him dead exactly?
Hucks is the only person who wants him dead, as far as I know.
But that's in the next movie.
She doesn't know about that.
No, no, no, that is in TLJ.
Yeah, based on this film.
That is in TLJ.
I guess he, oh yeah, that's right.
It's a very, yeah, we have that one little thing.
Yeah, he's surrounded by them.
That's my problem.
Like, why are you establishing that all of them want him dead?
It's like, it's just Hucks.
Why would a random stormtrooper be like,
do you want Hucks, Kylo dead?
I doubt that the stormtrooper would care.
Be like, oh, and he'd be like, why, why?
I remember actually paying attention to the movie.
How does it affect me if he dies?
It's like, well, I don't know, really.
It's like, I don't know.
I'd rather, I don't, I don't know.
I don't even know why I'm here, so.
I don't even think that's why I wanted Kylo Ren dead.
The only one that didn't like Kylo Ren was Hucks.
Yeah, and surrounded by people who hate him, right?
Maybe the guards hated him after he killed Snow.
He killed all the guards, though.
Yeah, but.
No one left to hate him.
I'm really trying, Mauler.
I'm really trying to understand what this woman's saying.
Okay, I agree.
I don't even understand why the guards started fighting him.
It's like, your master's dead.
He's your new master.
They were upset.
Yeah, if anything, if I was one of the guards, I'm like,
oh, you know, I guess he's on the paychecks now.
Yeah, just you kneel, like, all right.
Cool.
All right.
Well, anyway, I guess everyone gather around.
I'm Carl.
This is Steve, Bob, Janice.
Check out their weapons, and they're all showing you the cool weapons.
And the guy shows you his knife, and he keeps flickering, like, out of existence.
He's like, yeah, my knife doesn't work properly.
Yeah, I'm sure it's broken.
They say it'll get me killed, but I don't know.
It's my favorite knife.
Favorite knife.
It's got Sith on it.
It's got Sith on it.
Surrounded by people who hate him and want him dead.
Villains are just a lot of really unhappy people,
just crying and blowing up planets for no reason.
But they're fine.
Why is she explaining that as a positive?
Because it's fun.
Fun.
We're having a great time.
All right.
Why do you hate fun, Mauler?
I don't know.
I was born wrong.
Mine's pulled up as fun.
Happy people just crying and blowing up planets for no reason.
For the people that say they already wrapped up the story.
Wait, for no reason?
I mean.
At least she admits it's for no reason.
Well, but they give us a reason.
It's like, we want to get rid of the Republic.
It's like, all right, I guess that's the way to do it.
It wipes them out.
Assuming that's how that works.
You know, we get told that's how that works.
Also, all the people you want to rule over.
No, it is for no reason.
If your goal is to take over the galaxy,
you should have a galaxy left to take over.
Well, they go five planets.
Five out of, well, it's probably like a thousand.
This is fine, right?
Sure, but they seem to be the most inhabited.
I don't know.
Like, I could see it being a strategically strong decision
if you guys are actually the weaker force,
but you have the ability to literally delete the enemy team.
Like, it's a very low.
The stupid part is having your entire enemy team situated
on five planets in an entire galaxy.
That's, I don't understand the logic with that.
I guess if it's a game of civ, it's like, yeah,
you take out their big cities, you take them to the capital,
and then you just kind of you blow them all up with nukes
and you're taking the rest of your cities.
I get it, I guess it does get weirder in the third film
when they're like, let's blow up anybody who says
they're not going to 100% submits.
Like, guys, right?
Maybe don't blow them up.
Just send a Star Destroyer or two.
You need people to rule over.
You need people left.
Also, I think we're talking the scale of everything here
with the First Order.
What if there are more people in the First Order
than people they would rule over?
I don't even know what to say.
I just kind of assume they have no imagination.
The scary mutant guy on the throne got killed,
so I guess the story's over.
Number seven.
We never said the story was over.
No, it's not bad.
The problem is that the story, where the story goes
is like y'all have to pull some shit out of your ass here
if you want there to, yeah,
because you left yourself off in a really bad place
from a narrative perspective.
And look what happened.
They made a trilogy in one movie.
It worked out real well.
People loved it.
These parents didn't end up being anything.
I don't know why Star Wars fans are so dynastic about it.
If Rey wasn't raised by her parents
and she doesn't remember them,
then they don't really affect her character at all.
So you guys tell me your opinion on this.
If you were abandoned as an orphan when you were super young,
by the time you become 18, you find out your parents do exist
and they're findable.
Do those people mean anything to you?
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Assuming I'm not Captain Marvel, then yes.
And you might be like,
no, they don't mean anything to you
because water is thicker than blood in the story.
It's like, no, come on.
Everyone is like, you're my biological parents.
I'd like to meet you.
Yeah.
It's like they're the understanding that those people
are the ones who made you.
That kind of carries a little bit of existential weight.
And then I can't believe it.
So that's one reason.
Second would be, what is the first thing Rey's going to ask them?
Do you guys think?
Why did you leave me?
On Jakku.
And if you think that there's no interesting answer to that,
I'd be like, wow, even right.
And even if we went with Rian Johnson's dream
and these people said, I don't fucking care about you.
I just want a drinking money.
That's going to be big for Rey to have to experience that directly from these people.
Wouldn't have been interesting at least.
It would have been more interesting than whatever they did.
You know, for alcohol, we can't drink you.
It's like, Kyla, is that true?
Yeah, I never lied to you.
I never, I totally did.
You think that would deter Raylos too?
Because it's basically the rise of Skywalker basically proves he lied
to manipulate her into joining him.
You know, right?
And they don't take that into account at all.
The fact that he clearly lied to her, but whatever.
OK, I was like, no, what I really was like, no, no, no.
When I said you when I said you would surely die when you eat from that tree.
No, it's like a metaphorical death.
You see, you didn't.
Yeah, that's what I meant.
That's what I meant.
I just it's funny, like they have to cut off these ideas.
The idea that she meets her parents like, no, why would she care?
The people who don't matter to her.
It's like, what are you doing?
Why are you arguing for this?
That's not how humans work.
Are you insane?
Why?
Why is this the hell you died on?
It's like they're dying on this hill because it's not what happened in The Last Jedi.
That's why.
Anything that didn't happen in The Last Jedi is bad and probably boring.
Dick about it.
If Ray wasn't raised by her parents and she doesn't remember them,
then they don't really affect her character at all.
But she does remember that.
Oh, that aged well.
It shows that.
It shows the scene where she's like seven and she's crying and she's watching their
ship fly away.
She 100 percent remembers them.
Also, how meaningful these people are to her when she finds out they died to protect her.
It's like, nah, they didn't raise her.
Who cares?
What?
What a jebby.
At a Terry conditions she needs to know about.
If her parents abandoned her, maybe that will make her feel angry or betrayed.
And if they loved her and died, maybe that will make her feel sad or vengeful.
Why is she highlighting reasons she would like to confront these people?
Then you're helping us here.
Stop, get back on track.
And that's literally the only degree to which they matter.
What?
Oh, that's fucking okay.
Assuming that's the only degree.
Why?
Why is that something you said?
Okay, that her knowing their names are Kenobi or banks or whatever doesn't really hold any
additional.
Yeah, it does.
Yeah, it does.
It does in the start.
Like, again, I said this about the whole midichlorian thing is that I like to think that the midichlorians
are like things that are drawn to your force or whatever your capacity for the force rather than
a however many chlorians you midichlorians you have are your force capacity.
However, it clearly matters in the Star Wars universe.
Family and heredity clearly matter.
We we're shown it she finds out she's a Palpatine that do you know why that's significant because
Palpatine is the Hitler of Star Wars matters you're like, oh my god.
The idea that it's like who cares it's just a name it's like, wow.
He's gonna release a baby Yoda.
Oh my goodness.
Wow.
I like baby Yoda is it cute?
Yeah, he's cute.
He's cute.
He's so cute.
I'm so excited.
Oh, I'm so excited.
Oh, this just made my day so much better after the listening that it was not.
I mean, her parents being dead garbage people who sold her for drinking money is a reveal in itself.
Dead garbage people.
Dead garbage people that aged well.
Dead garbage people.
That's a funny way to put it.
But yeah, a lot of people who are defending TLJ would actually specify like Kylo might have been lying.
It's like, turns out he was.
Um, but even if they're dead garbage people before they had died, it would have made for an interesting scene to see Rey meet them.
Yeah, it would have.
But never mind.
I get it. People like to hear familiar names.
Number six, Luke Skywalker would never try to kill his nephew.
Here we go.
Yeah, I think there's gonna be some excessive screaming on this point.
Uh, uh, anyone want to bet we got the, uh, do you think someone doesn't change over 30 years? Is that what you think?
Oh, you guys think anyone can become a murderous bastard.
People changes in the words of a famous documentary on a guy called Stevie, but people do changes.
That in mind, people don't go from being the hero of the galaxy to being like, I had a bad dream. I'm gonna kill my nephew.
I'm excited about this portion of the video.
If Darth Vader could be redeemed, so why wouldn't he try to redeem his own nephew instead of killing him?
Vader was Luke's stronger enemy who he demonstrably could not kill. He literally beat him. What do you mean? He nearly killed him.
This is why I said, guys, she didn't grow up watching Star Wars. She only has watched it recently and she wasn't paying attention.
Never beat Darth Vader in a lightsaber fight.
Okay. Even though he did, he clearly did. The whole point was that Luke sped him to the dark side.
Yeah, because that, according to Ginny, did not happen.
God damn it. Oh my goodness gracious.
What is this?
Vader was Luke's stronger enemy who he demonstrably could not kill if he tried. And he did try. I feel like people forget that.
What the fuck you? No, he didn't. The whole point is that he didn't.
If she's referring, wait, this just this all falls apart.
If she's referring to Luke wailing on Vader and chopping his arm off as his attempt to kill Vader,
I'd be like, oh, so you do realize that Luke defeated Vader. Why are you referencing that?
I, uh, I'm so confused, Jevi. I don't know what is happening. What is the universe right now?
I mean, unless he was swinging his lightsaber toward his neck in a friendly way, Luke was unable to watch.
Luke never went for a kill shot. That's the point. He aimed for his neck and accidentally hit his wrist, I guess.
Okay. All right. I guess. Darn how that gets.
The whole point of the fucking fun finale is that he never went for the kill shot.
The hell. Oh, Jenny, you're so awful.
But once he heard his backstory and had reason to think that redeeming him might work,
he kind of figured that was worth a shot. Ben was his.
But it's not worth a shot.
He gave everything to try and save Vader. It wasn't just who's worth a shot, I guess.
Like, no. He literally went against Yoda or Obi-Wan's advice on it, too.
What the hell? Like, how did you? This is when it's like, did you watch the movie?
Stab a nigga, you must.
Nephew, who was at Luke's mercy, and Luke had a vision of Ben murdering a bunch of people Luke
cared about, including other children. Unlike Darth Vader, who didn't kill anybody.
He didn't have a vision of Darth Vader killing people.
Darth Vader just straight up killed people.
Guys, it's been a while since I watched The Last Jedi, but didn't Luke say that he just saw that
Kylo Ren was leaning towards the dark side? He didn't actually see him murder people.
Let's pull it up, shall we?
I'm trying to remember.
All right, we'll.
I'm trying to block up the outer windows.
I know. Don't blame me.
Kylo's being my dreams.
Force Awakens? No, no, no, no, no.
Oh, no, not that one.
The worst one.
Get away from me.
The somehow worst one.
Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo.
Yep.
I saw darkness.
I sensed it building in him.
I'd see it in moments during his training, but then I looked inside,
and it was beyond what I ever imagined.
Snoke had already turned his heart.
He would bring destruction, pain, and death,
and the end of everything I love because of what he will become.
I guess he just saw.
Vader, though?
Yeah, well, Vader's fine.
Right.
This is the thing.
I could never believe that Luke would go with that
from fucking looking inside someone's head.
It's like, dude.
Especially his nephew.
All he'd have to do is sit him down and be like,
yo, Kylo or Ben, whatever the hell your name is now.
You know how I'm sensing you're going to the dark side.
Let me tell you some shit that I went through.
My dad cut off my hand.
He threatened to murder my sister.
I won't plan to get destroyed.
We can't relate on any level whatsoever,
so I'm just going to kill you.
Did he even try Sith Lord Anonymous?
He's like, all right, Kylo.
So you're thinking of killing some innocent younglings.
I see.
Hi, my name is Kylo, and it has been three weeks
since I've killed younglings.
Hi, Kylo.
They get a little bad.
I had an open opportunity to prevent this
before it happened by killing Ben.
He literally just had the thought, I could do that.
All right.
All right, Ben.
That's Luke Skywalker for you.
Kill him.
Oh, yeah.
I could do that.
I got to get a good one.
I had to work that in between Gulls and Murder She Wrote, maybe.
The real question is like, why wouldn't...
Yeah, again, why wouldn't Luke do anything else
before just being like, you know what?
Lightsaber to the fucking throat.
There's no in between.
There's no thought process.
Now, if it had been, if it had been
that maybe she was mind controlling him or something,
and this had all been worked into the entire saga,
I guess, if you want to call it that,
then maybe that would have made sense.
I don't want to call it soggy, actually.
Yeah, whatever you want to call it.
Nightmare, I don't know.
Call it a fever dream.
This three-film long nine-hour fever dream.
Yeah, you could have done something with this
that would have made it at least make a little bit more sense.
Actually, not a little bit more sense, any sense at all.
Yeah, it's ridiculous.
I love the fact that she, the way she's portraying Luke here,
like, I could kill him.
I don't know.
I guess I could just fucking murder a child.
Before it happened by killing Ben,
he literally just had the thought, I could do that.
The idea occurred and then after like half a second
of considering it, he decided not to
and was horrified with himself for even thinking about it.
Uh, it goes a little bit beyond thinking about it.
Fucking ignited that shit.
And I was like, I don't know.
I just, I feel like if I just thought,
oh, my parents don't love me, so I'm going to murder them.
And so I went and I got a gun and I load bullets
and I went to the room in the middle of the night
when I was sleeping and I pointed the gun at them
and put my finger on the trigger.
And then at that point I stopped.
I feel like that would, like, wow,
that's like 17 terrible decisions
that I've made consecutively.
I just stopped right at the finish line.
I'd like to say I'm in your house
for some reason at that time.
I see you with the gun.
Like, I'd see you do it all.
Then you're like, why do it?
Oh, I'm not allowed to have the thought now.
It's not a bro. Calm down.
God, I'd be so like, I'd be sweating bullets.
I'd be like, you just, you know, you just want to do it.
I don't know.
She doesn't seem to understand.
There's usually steps between thoughts and actions.
Like there's some kind of middle ground.
Like there's some kind of like process between the middle,
like from point A to get you to point B.
Like now, if you just pissed off one day,
you might just flip out and fucking kill some people.
You can think about it.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Yeah, it's not like he did anything.
If the flashback had been a long drive.
Imagine explaining that to Kyle, Kyle,
Kyle O'Binn when he wakes up, right?
He wakes up and he looks at Luke over with a lightsaber
and looks like I didn't do anything.
Why are you flipping out, dude?
I was just thinking about it.
Yeah, just go back to bed.
I haven't done anything.
That's fair enough.
I was going to give you like some waves.
That's what I was going to do.
I was going to touch you up with the lightsaber.
It's a really good way to, you know, get your hair cut.
Really efficient.
Yeah, you need to get your hair cut.
It's going to get in your eyes or something.
That the idea occurred to him.
And then after like half a second of considering it,
he decided not to.
So he didn't consider it all the way to walking there
in the middle of the night, bringing his lightsaber.
So weird that he went into his room at night
and wanted to search in his head whether or not
he's an evil person, then actually consider fucking
executed him.
It's like, Luke, what are you doing right now?
Again, like if it had been, if they had set up
Sheev coming back as as terrible as that is,
as stupid as that is, if they had set it up
from the first film and then it was like,
Sheev is this kind of like weird force power or ghost
or whatever the fuck he is that can transfer himself
from body to body that maybe he like infects Luke
while he's asleep and vulnerable.
That might kind of have made sense.
There's shit you could do with this that might
actually be somewhat logical within the universe
you've established, but you didn't do it.
Instead, you just made Luke a fucking homicidal crazy person.
You could have had Sheev narrating in the last one
is like, I had to go to Luke while he was sleeping
because while he was awake, he was too resilient.
He was too strong in the ways of the force,
but while he was asleep, then I could influence
his thoughts or something like that.
It shows the underhandedness of the villain
and the vigilance of the hero.
And it still shows Luke to be strong in the force
and a good person.
Yeah.
And what made him seclude himself at that point
was the fact that he could never have believed
that he'd be the guy to hurt his own family.
And then what redeems him is finding out it wasn't him at all.
100%.
That would actually make sense for Luke's seclusion
of being like, Oh, I'm potentially vulnerable
because of my family's background being part of
or, you know, being tempted by the dark side
that I have to seclude myself.
But none of this is done.
There's what I discovered.
I was being influenced by ancient.
And I think Snoke could have been putting a bug in
Kylo's ear and telling him like, Hey, you know,
they don't trust you, right?
You know, you know, you know, your your uncle
doesn't trust you, right?
And then look up, you're trying to kill you.
Look at your uncle.
He knows you're gay.
He knows you're gay.
Go run.
He always knew you were gay.
That was obvious.
I he's like, I think it's okay that you're gay.
But Luke, Luke does.
He's like, you really think it's okay?
He's like, Yeah, I don't think it's fine.
I guess I don't know what they do, but, you know,
you don't want to see my penis.
Anyone could do whatever they want.
The free empire open.
What'd you do with the privacy of your own place?
Star Destroyer.
Whatever you are.
I don't know how normal people live.
Everyone has a Star Destroyer as far as he knows.
Like everyone lives on the Star Destroyer.
Where's your Star Destroyer?
He looks at a plant.
He's like, how do they fit so many Star Destroyers down there?
I just sheave looks into Kylo's mind and sees all his fetishes
and is like, Ooh, I'm telling you, I'm in a wooden box.
Kylo's like, you're okay with all of those.
You're not supposed to look at that.
I thought we had an agreement.
For even thinking about it.
If the flashback had been a long drawn out duel of Luke actively trying to kill Ben
and Ben trying to defend himself at that point, I think we'd be like, Oh God, kill me.
Who are what is even happening?
I think she's saying if it was that she'd agree, but the way it stands is fine.
I'd be like, yeah, that's not really what I'd expect from our good guy.
But that's not what happened.
Also to put it one way, it feels a little weird to see people so up in arms overseeing
a heroic Jedi character momentarily considering doing a bad thing.
Wasn't that like the broad strokes here.
Nice and broad.
Considering doing a bad thing.
And you're like, what do you mean by that, Jenny?
It's like killing, killing his family.
Momentarily.
There's a difference between momentarily thinking I want pizza and then momentarily
thinking, oh, I want to decapitate my nephew.
And yet both of those can come under you momentarily thinking about doing a kind of
bad thing.
No, could you imagine Luke, like if he succeeded and Leia's like, oh, how's Ben's training going?
Oh, I killed him.
And I was like, why?
Ben's great.
Ben's great about being a Sith.
And she's like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
He hasn't written many space letters in like three weeks.
I'm getting worried.
Like, oh, he's just studying hard.
That rascal him.
Oh, that rascal Ben Skywalker.
What's his last name, actually, to be honest?
Solo.
Solo, I guess.
Yeah.
So so yeah, that's another dead fucking family name.
Long live Palpatine.
Long live Palpatine.
That's right.
That's right, boys.
Skywalker.
When the universe has pre-established the idea of the dark side, a specific evil force
whose whole thing is trying to tempt people to do bad things.
Like if you had to make a checklist of things that canonically you would expect Jedi to do,
it would go like meditate, have a lightsaber, and resist the ongoing insidious temptation
to do bad things.
But that doesn't make sense.
Oh, my.
Oh, yeah.
The third one.
The third one's just me.
This is what she thinks the entire Jedi order is based on.
I am.
I might.
Wow.
This hurts.
I mean, at this point, anyone can do anything then, right?
There's no.
That's that's really.
Really.
Not a Jedi if you don't have a lightsaber.
Now you're Padawan.
I think Rags point is it goes beyond the lightsaber.
So that all a Jedi is is having a lightsaber and meditating and resisting the dark side.
That's all being a Jedi is.
Holy.
She doesn't know anything about Star Wars.
I'm I'm honestly speechless at that point.
Holy shit.
Just when when when people take the force to like, especially what the sequels have taken,
it's just like we start to lose characters in general because everyone's just this this
ping pong ball and the dark side and the light side are just shoving them around everywhere.
And it's really not their decisions that matter.
It's just how much they were influenced at the time.
Um, I don't like that as much because I like it when my characters make decisions.
They're informed by their motivations and values.
Not well, you know, the dark side.
So, you know, Luke trying to kill his family members.
You know, think about it.
Dark side is there.
It's all spooky in the background.
So anyone could do anything evil, really.
Like, why couldn't you know, she said it would be ridiculous to have seen him
having a full on battle with Kylo.
Couldn't I have just said to her?
It's like, well, he's battling the dark side at the time.
It was really getting to him.
Makes sense.
Makes sense.
Luke resisted temptation that one time.
That means that he'll never be tempted to do bad things again.
Just like temptation works in the real world.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Hey, Rags, when were you last tempted to murder your family?
Oh, what time is it?
I don't know.
Four hours, I guess.
I don't know.
All the time.
You know me.
I'm just always thinking about killing my family members.
Now, one of these days, one of these fucking days, I'll just get my lightsaber.
Also, it's really weird to talk about killing Kylo as a temptation.
I'm just so tempted to kill my nephew.
That's something I'm often tempted to do, is kill my nephew.
But that's the thing is, if she actually watches Empire Strikes Back when Luke goes
down into the cave and he fights Darth Vader and it turns out to be his face,
that wasn't him being tempted to the dark side.
That was Yoda teaching him that, hey, if you keep going on this path, you are eventually
going to go down the dark side path because you want to just get the rewards instead
of putting the work in and you have to train because if you go face Vader,
you're going to become exactly the thing that you don't want to be.
And so that's not temptation.
That's just reality that if you just try to do these things, it's going to backfire on you.
She doesn't understand Star Wars, and I don't think she's actually seen.
Maybe she saw them, but she wasn't paying attention.
The more she speaks, the more I'm convinced of that.
I mean, she's the same person who said that Joker's message was that you
should stop taking medication.
Don't you get it, guys? It was a joke.
You're like, oh, we laughed.
We laughed, yes.
Number five, Leia Poppins.
This is a small one for me because I kind of get it.
You're probably like, then why is it number five?
The list is arbitrary.
Sorry.
If people's issue is that visually the image of an ice encrusted Princess Leia
flying through outer space.
Yeah, it was pretty dumb.
Yeah, that was fucking stupid.
As was the clip in my video, a friend of mine lost his shit laughing at that scene.
He couldn't believe it.
A lot of people did.
It's like Superman is kind of a silly image.
Then like, yeah, it is.
For me, not enough that it really took me out of it.
And some people feel differently.
Like I said, I get it.
But I'm seeing some people complain in the context of-
Here we go.
Since when did Princess Leia have the force, which she's-
No one said that.
No, we know she has the force.
That's not the issue.
There's a difference between like, oh, I could sort of sense something at a distance, I guess.
For example, we were fine with her feeling harm die in Force Awakens.
Everyone was fine with that.
Yeah, but like, man, this cranks that up to 11.
Being able to fly around and live in space.
It's the kind of thing because Rian Johnson argued that it's not about her training.
It's not about the fact that she's prolific with a force.
It's the exact same experience as a woman picking up a car to save her baby.
It's the adrenaline you get in those moments.
That's how he justified it.
So if she's about to make the defense that it makes sense that she can do this from a power
stab point, Rian Johnson disagrees with you.
Like, he doesn't think she should be able to do it normally.
He's saying that this was a special moment in which she used a shit ton of force power.
Watching her planet get destroyed, though.
Nah, there wasn't any adrenaline there.
Promotion or anything in there.
He flies now.
He flies now in the original trilogy.
And then people are like, when did she have training?
Well, it's been 30 years.
I don't know.
Also, it appears you don't know.
Right.
Johnson's right.
Just even said that she didn't have training.
But JJ has now said that she did.
It's just I love it.
The fucking fighting.
No, she didn't.
Yeah, she did, though.
Imagine this chick in a writer's room.
Like, OK, so when I asked her, like, how does Princess Lilia fly?
She's like, well, it was 30 years.
I don't know.
Well, like, you know, it's fun when Snoke is trying to have Kylo kill Ray.
Ray pulls out a blaster and shoots Kylo in the head.
And we're like, whoa, what?
How?
And then she goes, did she have a blaster?
I don't know.
I guess she did.
Like, how?
I guess it's possible.
Well, you could always say it was the one that Han Solo gave her.
And so it's like poetic justice that she kills Kylo with the gun that Han gave her.
If only that's the ending we got.
But it wouldn't make sense because Kylo's supposed to be.
Snoke's supposed to be holding her still.
And why wouldn't they have checked her for weapons before she came in?
You know, I'm just well, my point is that anything could happen.
And then Jenny will just be like, this could happen.
I don't know.
OK.
It's in canon that when people are strong in the force,
it will come to them in times of need.
Like, almost as if it works.
That is not how it fucking works.
How many times does that fail?
So many characters in that case.
I really could have used the force.
Where was the force when Kiadi Mundi got fucking obliterated by plasters?
It's like, help me out.
No.
Help me out force.
It's like, sorry, bro.
Don't work like that.
So many people have died.
The Emperor, as he falls down the fucking shaft, like, help me the force.
If only I could fly like characters that will appear later.
And then the force is like, don't worry, dude, you'll survive this.
He's like, what?
You'll be funny.
Sabre to her without knowing that that was a thing she could do
or how Ezra would use the force to help him in his heists.
Without knowing that it was the force he was even using.
Ezra's the one from Rebels, in case you're a fake fan
who doesn't watch children's programming.
The only reason she knows about that is like I said, she worked for Disney.
So she had to know the characters because she had to sell them.
She's wearing a shoe.
The thing that says Rebel.
Example, considering Ezra was getting trained by Canaan, who himself
hadn't even finished his training.
He was just a Jedi Knight when his master was killed during order 66.
So, oh my God.
And Ezra was like tempted by the dark side.
And you actually get to see that stuff way more than you get to see with Rey.
Oh my God.
So when Chaz said Jabba was full of sensitive, he could have survived.
You don't know.
I've always seen Jabba floating through space.
With one arm reaching out.
Oh dear God, boy.
Oh, that piece of gristle.
Such a he's a great character.
Best character.
Was it the force he was using when he was like age nine,
really good at flying ships and building robots?
Or was you just good at that stuff?
I can't stand.
Considering this was Carrie Fisher's.
I remember mannerisms, how much of an insufferable cunt she is.
She's so cunt.
I don't think she understands that like people have like naturally gifted reflexes.
It's like some kids are really good at building stuff or understanding math
or reading at an early age while other kids are really good at sports.
Other kids are really good at like drawing and stuff from an early age.
Have you ever seen Chinese kids?
What does that have to do with it?
Extremely almost unnaturally gifted children at specific things.
But I mean, this example that she's using, it's it's my head hurts and I'm sick and I don't want
to talk, but remember when Anakin was like the super special chosen one that was prophesied
and it was like a big deal.
Well, she's still talking about Ezra.
She are talking about Anakin now.
She's referring to Anakin with being able to fly and build robots at a young age.
Anakin was the fucking chosen one.
Also, I mean, I think it's too far out of this.
I mean, was he all the kids his age?
Yeah, that was his life.
It was all about mechanics and stuff.
He was like toddlers now know how to use like, I think we allow these things.
We allow Ray to be a decent mechanic slash scavenger.
We gave her that we were like, okay, most characters come with like an inherent
trait that we don't need to see them develop because we're just like,
okay, so this is we you get to be that because that was your
that is explained by upbringing surrounding whatever.
Then you're like, also, she's this also she's this also and you're like,
stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop too much.
And people say that about Anakin.
And it's like, oh, that he was a good pilot and and he could work well with
like as a mechanic.
Okay.
Also, he got fucking wrecked several times across the prequels,
but I guess we don't include that.
Ray died.
But she just so that they can bring her back, though,
only because they knew that they could instantly bring her back to get rid of Kylo.
I sort of preferred if she died and Kylo lived.
I know.
I mean, I would have been fine if Ray turned to the dark side
and then Kylo has to kill her.
And then that's like his retribution and then he lives.
But I bet you they didn't do that because of what happened with Game of Thrones.
Wouldn't that have been kind of cool, though,
considering that what she said is that he was going to go into Ray's body.
And why does that not happen, you know?
Well, people have been arguing is because he killed himself.
But I was like, that's nonsense.
If you if Rags shoots me with a gun and I use a pull a plating in front of me
that deflects it back into his head and I know that's going to happen
and I do it deliberately and he dies.
Pretty sure that's me killing him.
But I suppose if it happens fast enough, I could get a court to rule
that it was totally by accident.
I was just I was putting a thing in front of me.
I didn't know that was self-defense.
I mean, you can totally argue that, but you still you're complicit in the murder of the person.
Self-defense of trying to kill.
I mean, as Rags shoot you with a gun.
If I can deflect it anywhere, if I can deflect it anywhere,
I choose to deflect it into him.
Like my intent is pretty clear.
Well, it's a spur of the moment decision, right?
No, I'm saying it's not with a gun.
Then you have to kill.
Why would you admit that?
Why would you admit that you knew instead of we're not arguing
whether or not I'm trying to protect myself from extra time in jail.
We talk about the truth.
Let's talk about what the force, whatever is going on with chief is, right?
It doesn't seem enough.
Would it really matter if he's able to move his spirit from clone to clone?
Why would it really matter whether or not he force lightning himself to death?
Ultimately, who was responsible for his death is Ray.
So why does she not become possessed by power?
Like ultimately, again, this is something that would have made this whole series
make so much more sense if that Ray was possessed by Palpatine at the end.
Or if, you know, at some point if Palpatine had been set up from the first film
that that he's some kind of force spirit or something that exists
within the force that can influence it.
It would make so much more sense.
I just don't understand that there's so many better things you could have done here, you know.
Well, I mean, they could have explained why she was such a Mary Sue is
because she's the descendant of Palpatine and she had that evil within her
that, you know, made her so good and she goes to the dark side.
And then that's why Kylo has to kill her and Kylo is good.
And I think do you think JJ wanted it to be a Palpatine from the beginning or just as of
your OS? That's one thousand.
What do you think? What do you think his plan was before that?
Because it definitely wasn't going to be nobody.
Like this, that quote from I think Simon Pegg and a couple of other people
that were like, yeah, Ray's parents were supposed to be a significant thing.
But I guess I think she was really supposed to be a Luke's daughter.
I mean, that's that's what everyone is expecting.
Luke or maybe Obi-Wan like that seemed to be what they were setting up because
everyone in in Star Wars is related to somebody else.
And I said earlier that like it seems to be the force is hereditary,
but it doesn't necessarily mean that you have to be related.
But I don't know.
I thought it might have seemed to go Han and Leia's daughter.
And, you know, they left her on Jakku because Kylo went crazy.
So they're like, we have to put our child into hiding
that way to protect her from our other psychopath child.
That would have made sense, too, particularly since they're the dyad.
And then it could have.
And then it could have been like pottery would rhyme with the first.
But I mean, that's why when Kylo's like what girl?
And it's like, oh, so because it implies that he kind of knows of her in.
What's the first one called?
Oh, I suppose it begins because he's like, oh, what girl?
And it's like, oh, does he know of her?
Does he know that there's some girl out there?
So I'm like, was it his little sister that he just hadn't met yet
or hadn't seen since she was a baby?
I don't know.
It's just they could have done so much.
And the fact that this is what we got, it's like,
if they were separated siblings again, it would have been like pottery.
It would have been a reflection of the original trilogy.
And that might have made more sense.
I guess I would have loved to see.
The Raylowers just lose their shit over it, too.
Their pain makes me.
They already went so mad.
They're so weird as a collective.
Those people.
They're freaking demented, dude.
Some weird stuff coming out of that community.
Because people were like, it's much more of a weird thing
than you realize.
And I was like, I'm sure it's not that.
No, I mean, they went off on me for days just because I said
that the artwork was disturbing.
And it's like, oh, my God.
And any time you try to argue with them and you prove valid points,
they block you.
Oh, my God.
Did you see some racist tweets from Raylows?
And there was one person who said, well,
someone was calling out Raylo for being toxic and said,
and was talking about how volatile someone is on Tumblr.
I think someone messaged Raylo messaged them and said,
well, black people are like 13 percent of the population
and make up like 90 percent of the crimes.
So he's black and they're more likely to be domestic abusers.
She would totally get hit by Finn.
Well, I don't think I'm going to be taking advice
from a future criminal.
I feel so bad for Finn.
He got done so dirty.
He was, you know, potentially the most interesting character
that they introduced.
He was there for Ray from the second he met her.
He's like, all right, I'm going to help you.
And all he tries to do in this entire series is to help Ray,
not thinking too much about his own wants and desires.
And he just gets flat line.
He's trying to China.
Don't like those interracial marriages or the blacks.
That's like a double.
And I'm just like, you guys are so woke and you love to virtue signal.
Why didn't you go with the interracial couple thing?
Like, come on.
And then if anyone tried to criticize you, you could use the whole,
oh, well, you're racist.
But everybody go with the abusive relationship.
They did this horrible shit where it's like they OK.
And we all know this is that they set up the thing with Finn where it's like,
oh, well, I guess I'm going to tell you, Ray, and it never happens
because you can't do this at the 11th hour in the third film.
Maybe if it had been set up to some degree in the second film more.
But no, they had to have Ben go off on his weird animal adventure with.
I thought you were referring to Rose as the animal.
Oh, my God.
Don't put roses into my mouth, please.
I don't appreciate that.
She's yeah, that she's more of a plant than anything else.
Get it, because she's a rose.
I followed along.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, I guess we'd have to get the specifics.
But it is if if Palpatine can travel between bodies,
then surely him getting disintegrated wouldn't matter
because he was disintegrated twice previously.
So who cares?
Whether or not Ray killed him or like I surely it counts as Ray killing him
because people people were saying that like it's the difference between murder
and manslaughter.
It's like both cases, you would have killed them.
Like I'm not in a court of law.
I don't think she'd be punished that severely.
But she's clearly you know, like how in Attack of the Clones where
Yoda takes in the lightning from Dooku and then fires it back at him.
Like the firing back is the part that I'm trying to address with like intent to essentially kill.
Like Ray could bounce that lightning anywhere.
She chooses to bounce it at him.
I'm not saying that's not something you should do.
I'm actually on board with it.
I'd probably do it myself.
But doesn't that mean that the thingy will then jump into her body and flismy flasms?
Well, if it wouldn't have satisfied the arrangement of the ritual, wouldn't he have stopped?
Well, that's the other thing.
If he's, what if he was disintegrated himself thinking,
ha, this is gonna be great.
I'm gonna go into Ray's body.
But then he didn't.
I prefer the head cannon version where she dies.
She falls over and he's floating.
They're like, fuck, like, she needs to be alive for me to get in there.
And these stuff's like dissipating because you already have so much time.
And he's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Well, I mean, that's what happens when you have essence transfer is that
you have to battle with their mind.
And if you can't overcome them, you know, the second you initiate the process,
your body starts disintegrating into the force.
And so either you take over their mind and, you know, their body
or your conscious gets stuck in like the ether of the force.
And your body is going to disappear no matter what.
Either way, they need to explain it because even like I know random people
who were just like, how come she did the thing that he said he wanted to do
and it didn't do the thing?
The other one being as well that she didn't,
she didn't disappear as well.
So I guess she wasn't actually dead.
She was just dying.
Because of course she would disappear, right?
She's the most virtuous of all the Jedi.
She would, of course, become one with the force, right?
She should just be invisible.
All very confusing.
Anyway, my head hurts.
I don't think they ever told us.
Considering this was Carrie Fisher's last performance as Princess Leia,
I was kind of glad that we got to see her use the force at least one time
since it turned out that this is our last chance.
That's the that's the like, well, at least we got that.
It's like you couldn't have done that in any other way.
I don't know.
You'd have to be doing this stupid Mary Poppins thing, right?
Okay, this one is from my personal Facebook feed.
So I have to block out the name, but I just this is one of the worst takes I've heard.
Number four, everything was Holdo's fault for not anticipating
that Poe was going to ruin everything.
Oh, yeah, no, he's right.
Poe's right.
Poe's right and this comment is correct.
Major Leanne just right couldn't defend this like they gave up.
Poe was right.
Holdo was wrong.
I'm sorry.
It's been two years.
Can we please get past this?
Holdo was just like a trope for Ryan Johnson to put his weird sexual fantasy into Star Wars.
Yeah, I remember reading that quote.
It's weird.
He was like, she's sexy.
It's like, oh,
and he even says like, oh, I don't want her in a military uniform
because I want her to look sexy because she's flirting with him.
And I'm like, yeah, OK.
This is whenever I try to explain to people, OK, think about the situation,
the way that she's talking down to Poe and she's getting like basically off
on being a condescending cunt to him.
Imagine if that was reverse and that was a man speaking to a woman.
They would fucking lose their shit.
And don't you love old ass Laura Dern?
I like how you can break this down with anybody as well.
It's like, first of all, is it Poe's fault that Finn allows some random
person we don't trust to hear the conversation?
That's Poe's fault.
Of course not.
That's obviously Finn's fault.
That was insanely stupid.
It's like, no, Poe's fault for that.
You're like, OK.
Is it Poe's fault that he wants to try and save these people from death?
Like, well, yeah, because he should have known that no plan meant
a brilliant plan that the plan is so stupid, by the way,
that the First Order don't scan for small ships so we could escape.
It's like, what?
Yeah, but they can like look out their windows, right?
No. All right.
Not even that it's so stupid.
All of it is so stupid.
And yeah, just Poe did what any rational person should do in that situation.
He wasn't even that rash about it.
Exactly.
Do they not realize that, like, the command center on, you know,
any Star Destroyer is just windows and they can physically see all of the ships?
Well, yeah, they show Hux and them looking out of the of the bridge
at the radis and all the ships.
And I'm like, why didn't you see that?
Why didn't you see we've established they can see.
And when they're like, we've ran in a decloaking scan,
so we've discovered the ship's like, what do you mean?
Why does it not always use in the decloaking scan?
Literally twenty four seven.
Oh, such a stupid fucking comment.
It's almost as bad as the Rise of Skywalker ones.
All those stupid throwaway lines just like, oh, it hurts my head.
Would it be like, oh, OK.
Yeah, let's let's hear how stupid Poe was.
And explain her entire plan to him.
Entire plan.
It would have been nice if she just said, I have a plan.
Isn't that what he asks for?
He explicitly says, tell us there's a plan.
Tell us there's a plan.
That's it.
Tell us there's something.
She's like, hope is like the sun because it burns you up or something.
Fucking kills you.
Yeah, the argument that they lose this on every time
is when Poe threatens to take the bridge.
At that point, you have to tell him, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK.
You're an asshole.
I hate you, but I'm not about to let you kill everyone.
We've got a plan.
This is the plan.
OK, and you might be thinking to yourself, she can't tell him the plan
because then he'll tell the code breaker and the code breaker will tell the first order.
You're like, that's still a better outcome than him hyperspacing them and dooming them,
which is what he's trying to do when he gets to the bridge.
There's no argument left unless you want to tell me that Holdo's retarded,
which I'm not exactly opposed to.
She is pretty stupid.
The whole film.
Yay.
Remember that whole opening scene about how Leia is emotionally taxed by the loss of life in this war
and Poe is willing to sacrifice people here and there in order to blow stuff up?
OK, so here's the thing.
You're a commander and you are emotionally taxed at the idea
that you have to expend your forces to win the war.
You are not fit for command.
Do you remember how Poe describes the Dreadnought?
They're fleet killers.
They're fleet killers.
What are we a fleet?
Oh, OK.
Oh, it makes sense.
And even if it's only one ship, it makes sense what Poe does.
I don't like Poe did nothing wrong.
There are no arguments that we have heard in years to satisfy the idea.
That's what we had for Major Lee was Leia slapped him.
Oh, most of it is also wrong.
That means Leia is stupid.
This is Bizarro clown world.
You saved our life, but we've awesome people in the process.
It's crazy how much.
And I still remember the first couple of days of conversations,
people were very adamantly arguing that she was obviously assuming that Poe was a mole.
But that just that doesn't hold either.
It's complete fiction.
It's based on nothing.
But the fact is that she likes Poe.
She thinks he's awesome.
And he blew up the fucking Starkiller base.
Like, I just it's so weird like yesterday.
Yeah, the people were like, war heroes can become moles.
And it's like, why would just go down between.
So it like a day he blows up a planet killing planet, our galactic war hero.
And then he's like, you know what?
I'm going to side with the other side.
Oh, OK.
They're just people.
It's an entire ship.
So Poe just got demoted for disobeying orders.
The captain.
Specifically in the context of having a disregard for human life because the ends just.
No, it's actually a regard for human life.
It is designed for a ship where they have to be physically
over another ship to let lose their bond instead of shooting.
This is what has always baffled me about this argument is the idea that
your soldiers are going to die.
Like, that's just going to happen.
They fight people.
They're guys trying to kill you.
You're trying to kill them.
If you do not fight them, they will destroy all of you guaranteed.
You will all die.
One hundred percent chance of one hundred percent of all your forces will be dead
if you don't expend some of your guys to stop them.
It's so it's it's so obvious.
It's so like it's a bare bones concept.
And like they can't grasp it.
Like what what I would like to ask him, what is the alternative?
Like, OK, so if Poe did the wrong thing, what is the correct thing to do?
Please tell me what the correct move would have been in this situation
because we know that the dreadnought would have destroyed them moments later.
I'm just putting the hyperspace out and then the the first order follow them in.
And then they slowly pick all of them off with the dreadnought until the last ship is left.
And Holdo is standing there with Poe saying, hey, you did the right thing.
Yeah, you did the right thing.
You listen to Leia, who's dead.
I find it fascinating that she attributes this to a lack of concern for human life
when he's made it explicitly clear it's about saving as many people as possible.
It's like, do these people think that you could win a war and just not lose anybody?
Like, how have you been?
You're what have you been doing up to this point?
...of having a disregard for human life because the ends justify the means.
Holdo's plan is to sacrifice their biggest, strongest warship
in order to save as many lives as possible.
We, the audience, know...
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Holdo's plan is to sacrifice their biggest ship to save lives.
But this is after the dreadnought's been destroyed.
Yeah, that wouldn't be a possibility.
Yeah, yeah, that's not a possibility at this point.
Also, if anything, that just highlights the issue of,
well, why didn't they just hyperspace into the dreadnought cannon?
Why didn't you just have one of those ships hyperspace into the dreadnought?
You see, that's the thing.
It all breaks down.
Your terrible solution just highlights more problems.
That's because Poe did what was right.
You expect Poe wouldn't change over the course of an entire day, Rex?
Expect, he said, he got older.
If you're trying to escape from...
If you're trying to run away, right,
and you're being chased by an enemy that can run faster than you,
then you're good.
You don't have it.
You can't...
You have to kill it or else it'll just chase you down.
Like, oh, it might get hurt.
It's like, yeah, but you'll definitely get caught if you don't.
Or at least assume that Poe isn't a horrible monster
and would ultimately agree that this is a wise course of action.
But what reason would Holdo have to believe that he'd go along with it?
When everything she knows about him, a guy she just met...
So this is the funny part.
In the film, he's explained the plan, like the plan is explained to him,
and he says, that just might work.
Okay. Let's do it.
So I guess Holdo was just bad at judging her own team.
I guess she, yeah, I guess her idea of who he was,
was wrong.
And as a result of that, it created a mutiny and she wasn't even correct.
Why does no one ever remember, by the way,
that he's not the only person who mutinies against her?
There's like several members of the team.
Suggest the exact opposite.
Also, it's possible that this military leader
doesn't think that it's the wisest course of action to reveal
every facet of her plan to every single...
Stop saying it like that.
No, that's what we're asking.
He is the commander of the...
A moment ago, he was the commander of the entire fleet.
He's a war hero.
He's the best pilot.
He is, if anything, he's the person who needs to know.
Is that no one ever said that she needs to tell everyone
from Poe down to the janitor.
What is the name of this type of argumentation?
Because someone had a meme of it before, basically like...
Strawman.
No, like when you go...
So you say like, we should probably tell...
Some form of the plan should be told.
And then she just immediately jumps to the entire plan.
You're like, no, just the existence of a plan?
How about that?
The entire plan to every single person?
Just like the extreme immediately.
It's like, come back, come back, come back.
There's got to be a name for it.
Strawman applies, because she's obviously arguing
against a point that you did not make.
But I think I know what you're getting at,
because this happens all the time.
Like, yeah, if it was like a subset where it's just...
It's just, it bugs the fuck out of me.
Because the meme I saw was,
you're making a strawman argument and the response is,
I guess we just shouldn't make arguments.
People are saying reductio ad absurdum.
Yeah.
That could be it, yeah.
So it's a ship of Theseus?
Ship of Theseus.
Slippery slope, false dichotomy.
It's so frustrating.
It's like, because they do it with the whole,
you know, when people say Luke should have showed up
and actually like fought.
It's like, yo, you want him to jump around
and kill every single thing in the universe.
He's like, no, nope.
False dichotomy, so we say Hodor maneuver.
The point is, like, we can't even agree
on all the different kinds of ways.
This is a fallacious argument.
It fucking annoys me.
I'm just so tired of being told like,
this is what you want.
It's like, no, I literally want the scene to run out.
I'd like to see how it goes.
He says, tell us there's a plan.
And then she goes, there's a plan.
And let's just say my entire bridge know about it.
Everything is set up.
We're going to live, Poe.
Have some hope.
I'd like to see how he'd react to that.
And if he started going, no, that's not good enough.
I have to know the specifics.
I'd be like, hmm, that's interesting.
That can actually be way more interesting drama
than just going, can you please tell us we're not all dead?
That would be great.
It's like, yeah, I'm the best pilot you have.
I command respect.
I'm a war hero.
He's the captain.
He's the second in command to her,
if we'd go by Rise of Skywalker.
Yeah, I mean, I feel like I should know what the plan is,
given my position and status in the control that I have.
Like, what if something happens to you?
What then?
Like, shouldn't someone else know the plan?
No.
Well, apparently, everyone did except the three people
who mutinied.
Because the crazy part is that when he mutinies,
there's people who are boarding the transport ships.
And it's like, do they know?
They must know that they're going to crate, right?
Because Poe doesn't know that at the time.
Do they not know?
I don't know.
Like, I just, Poe, go ask them.
See if they know.
See if everyone knows except for you for some reason.
And it's like, Poe, everyone's getting on these transports.
Maybe we should ask him if this is, like, part of the plan.
And if they're all like, no, we were just told to board them.
We don't even know where we're going.
I'd be like, oh my god.
So we're going somewhere on these transports.
That's something.
I mean, he highlights that in the room.
He says, like, you're just going to fill up these transports and run.
And then he establishes that they've got no shields.
They're just dead if they do that.
Which is true.
Because the interesting part is, for some reason,
they're cloaked in a way that the First Order cannot see them.
And there's this helpful little planet that's right next to them.
And you're like, oh.
Oh.
Remember, Leia explains this to him.
She's like, crate.
It's an old, like, mining planet or some shit.
He's just like, oh.
And it's like, what the fuck did you just tell him this?
Oh my god.
Yeah.
Is this the planet that's hidden from stuff?
I would be really disappointed if my captain was told we're all going to die.
And he was like, all right.
Yeah.
Like, dude, can you?
Don't you care?
Like, oh, I just follow in orders.
Continue, Jenny.
Information.
And if the enemy found out, it could result in a lot of people being blown up,
which turns out to be what happens.
That's what happens, though.
It's not a post fault.
But that happens.
Really what happens.
That is, that's literally what happens.
Like, they barely escape with anybody.
Yeah, but they blame Poe for that because it came from DJ.
And that came from Finn opening the phone call to Poe.
People blame Poe for what happens in that scene.
Yeah.
Finn gets a call from Poe.
Finn opens it up.
Hey, what's up?
No one else is on this call, right?
Finn's like, no.
Why don't you get NordVPN?
You can click the link in my description to get 25 minutes of scheduling.
Seriously, though.
And then we can highlight like how fucking retarded the code breaker is.
Because this is the thing, when people say Rise of Skywalker is much more contrived
and stuff, it's like, do you remember the guy they just randomly bump into who could
do everything they need him to do?
Do you remember that happens in TLJ?
They came for a code breaker.
They found a literal replacement for this very extremely skilled
specifically talented person in the prison cell that they get thrown into when they're arrested.
And he knows how to break out of there as well.
It's like, wow.
And he doesn't want payment, if you remember, he actually says,
because people always try and argue that he was like a mole that was sent in from the
first order.
And it's like, no, he was just a random dude.
No, just a guy.
And he was cool with helping them.
But once he's captured and he makes it clear, he doesn't actually he doesn't subscribe to
good or bad.
He's just like, I don't know, just trying to make my way.
Like, he paid, he managed to get out of the first order's clutches by selling off
what he knew from the phone call that Finn allowed him to listen to for some reason.
I'm pretty sure Finn talks about it in front of him as well later.
Like when he's talking to Rose in like one of the corridors, I think he mentions it.
So again, more Finn's fault in every sense than Poe's.
Oh, because Poe found out about the plan.
Number three, people hate the kid with the broom at the end because they think that now
we're going to get a film about the kid with the broom learning.
I've never heard this before.
Yeah, I didn't hear this.
I don't.
I don't care if we get a film about the kid with the broom.
Yeah, I think I think it'd be interesting to learn about broom boy growing up being
incredibly bitter at a republic that couldn't stop him from being in slavery.
And the people who came in and set animals free instead of helping him.
I mean, like I like I think that would be a very interesting story.
If you want to take a fucking dump on Ryan Johnson.
Yeah.
Tell us the story about how broom boy reacts to this bizarre thing that happens.
I know people are unhappy with his force proficiency, but I didn't know people were
like, I don't fucking want to film with broom boy.
It's like I'm fine with him pulling broom two feet.
Yeah, for me, it's not significant enough to complain about, especially if people are
okay with baby Yoda.
Surely this works out just fine.
I wouldn't I would have to look into it, I guess.
Yeah, but people people don't use this.
People don't use the same standards to judge Mandalorian that they do for this
sequel.
Oh, right.
With the jab.
Jedi.
Oh, my God.
It was an epilogue.
I feel like some of these people.
And why does why does it matter?
Yeah, I don't.
I don't.
Yeah, it doesn't matter.
I've never watched a movie before.
It's like when War of the Worlds played on the radio and nobody's old timey brains
could handle that.
It was a fake thing.
I feel like nobody is taking you saying broom boy is fake.
What do you get?
Just because it's an epilogue doesn't.
In fact, that's contrary to the idea that it didn't happen in the prequel.
And then it's just okay.
Just like you can't put stupid shit in the sequels.
And it's okay, too.
What what does it be?
What does it being an epilogue mean, Jenny?
Tell me.
Taking the broom boy scene as a storytelling device in a movie.
And instead, everyone is taking it in the most literal.
But it's a scene in a film is literal.
Why would it?
What are you saying?
It's a dream sequence.
I know it's a what she's aiming for that we've met previously in a place that we've
already been.
What she's aiming for is to explain that the scene doesn't exist in a way that's
narratively relevant.
It's supposed to make a point.
And that is that anyone can be inspired to be anything in this world.
Yeah, but it still happened here.
It's still a scene that happened.
Yeah, that this exists in the world.
Because an epilogue doesn't mean it didn't happen.
What the fuck?
Fucking hell, Jenny, you're not very bright.
Like you're trying to rationalize away just a scene existing.
Well, I thought the scene is so minor.
I don't even know why she's focusing on it at all.
Yeah, I didn't have a problem with it.
I don't actually know of anyone who did have a problem with it.
I remember people having a problem with like the idea of it being like fucking
everyone has the force now.
I remember that being an attitude.
But I don't know.
I don't know how many people I saw saying, fucking, I don't want broom boy to get his
movie.
Like, I don't remember that being a sentiment, but maybe it was like, and I just missed it.
Text of, this is a character now.
This is like if people watch Titanic, and they were like, oh my god,
I can't believe they were cheap enough to set up a sequel.
What?
What the fuck are you talking about?
For there are ghosts on the list.
What?
What is happening?
I feel like we've entered into something weird.
Um, I, is she trying to say that because they made a sequel to Titanic,
that we would think that it's actually real because it's a sequel to Titanic.
There was a Titanic to there's a Titanic to electric.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna go ahead and play that again, because I have got very little to clutch here.
And they were like, oh my god, I can't believe they were cheap enough to set up a sequel
where they're all ghosts on the ghost Titanic.
Number two, the beat.
Oh, that's it.
Wow.
Um, the points over.
Yeah, I guess that her tiny, tiny brain is doing its best in an attempt to try and say
the people who had a problem with broom boy in the scene.
Would think that a ghost sequel to Titanic would be literal.
All right, the best I've got from building for what you've just said is
people are inventing theoretical sequels to a scene that doesn't necessarily imply one.
Similarly, they would invent Titanic to even though there's no scene to imply that.
Is that what she's saying?
But I'm curious.
What about room boy?
The scene that happened that wasn't implied, because we know he's a character.
We know that's a place.
We know the force exists.
We know that's his job.
Like, it's not nonsensical in any way.
I don't feel bad at this for someone who does this for a living.
You're really bad at this.
We did our best.
Okay, people.
I don't know what the point was.
We'll just move right along.
Yeah, he plot was pointless because their plan didn't even work.
Yes, the B plot was pointless, except for being the strongest illustration
of the whole theme of the movie.
It's the theme, guys.
All of the retarded, stupid shit that they do, all the dumb decisions,
all the monstrous things that they accomplish or don't accomplish.
It doesn't matter because it supports the theme.
Let's hear it.
It doesn't matter.
It's nonsensical.
It supports the theme, everybody.
I swear, these YouTubers do a really bad job of making themes
something that people will value in writing.
They constantly bring it out whenever something looks terrible.
But what about the theme?
You're like, oh, for fuck's sake.
Let's imagine that you are a young bride and you're about to get married,
and you're getting your wedding dress picked out,
and you think you found the one that looks just the most prettiest thing.
And you put it on, and you walk out to show your mom and all your girlfriends,
and you're like, oh, look at me.
Don't I look beautiful?
And they're like, well, it does match the theme.
Oh, yeah, that's when you know you're fucked up.
The Last Jedi is failure and being able to learn from past mistakes.
Yoda even says it in a really convenient thesis.
Convenient is one way to say it.
Dude, so if she likes the movie, it will be a convenient thesis statement.
If she does not like the movie, it'll be like a heavy-handed blatant thud from the script.
I find the fact that she starts this movie by saying about her,
I'm going to go into my psychological stuff.
And she has all the reviews.
And this is, again, I'm not trying to talk shit about Jenny,
but she has the things where she's like, no, I'm not going to mean,
but she has like she talks about how like she has like psychological input on stuff.
And I use this as a thesis statement.
I don't necessarily think you know what any of those words mean.
I'm just kind.
I'm going to princess and bride it up.
You keep using those words.
I'm not sure if you know what they mean, but go ahead.
I'm okay with the thesis statement of The Last Jedi being considered failure as the greatest
teacher.
I've said this like a million times.
I'm fine with that.
I just think the film does a horrible job of executing that message.
And it's a good thing they had Yoda say it.
Otherwise, people might not have guessed that.
It meant if this was a think piece, that Yoda quote would be the inset text
in big bold letters about halfway down the page.
The Jedi Order failed Anakin and failed to see what was going on with Palpatine.
And the whole thing fell apart because they were failures.
Luke failed himself by being oh, we go back to the prequels.
Can't be asked for this.
I'm so tired of people being like everybody.
Like we have to go through each one of these characters and explain how the failure is all
borked.
And the idea that the Jedi failed to stop Palpatine.
It's like it's not for lack of trying.
Lots of things happened.
They try didn't they?
That's what I mean.
It's so skewed in terms of an assessment.
It's the same as what Luke says.
It really bugs me where he's like, a Jedi is responsible for the training of Darth Vader.
It's like, okay.
And Ray does it in the film.
It's like a Jedi was responsible for bringing him back.
And then Luke's like, hmm.
It's like, why?
You can't just ignore this.
And yeah.
A gazillion Jedi and one of them turned out bad.
I mean, but it's going to happen no matter what.
Like that's a part of the force, right?
If the force is inherently this weird back and forth between the light and dark side,
then obviously some people that you train will become will fall to the dark side.
That's that's a, you know, occupational hazard, I guess you could say.
So I yeah, it's a little odd.
And I'm waiting for it.
She's going to throw Poet into this.
He failed when he, you know, valiantly saved the entire fleet.
That was a failure.
And I thought the theme of that section was that capitalism is bad.
Not that we have failure as a best teacher.
Girl, they mixing it up.
I think you could argue that that's it's both of them again,
because like she says, there's only one way to get this rich
profiteering off war to capitalize on the suffering of others, that sort of thing.
It's like, oh, like what about selling space fuel?
Well, I just it just it just amuses me the idea that you have some people who are hardworking
create weapons, they sell them to whoever's going to buy them.
And a war gets fought and they don't care about like who wins or loses or other.
They're just like, I'm just a weapons manufacturer.
But I suppose out here.
We don't really care who wins, honestly.
And the public ain't done shit for us.
Like, really, 30 years, they haven't done shit for us.
And then I guess the you could argue thematically that they're using these poor animals
for their own entertainment and they're betting on them.
Probably.
I don't know.
That's that's probably evil.
The slave children is that I don't really know.
Like a lot of people argue that can't divide so fucking disjointed in the film.
It's like it's struggling to to figure out what the fuck they're even trying to say.
And then meanwhile, you have failure.
It's best each of Rose and Finn fail to do their actual goal with that mini plot.
And then they just come back home.
You're like, oh, what a great teacher.
They only realize they failed when by the time they basically because by the time they're
gone from Kanto bite, it's a success at that point.
They miraculously find pretty much a carbon copy of the person that they need.
So.
It's not even a failure until they get.
Captured.
And then everyone starts getting blown up.
Yeah.
Them turn evil.
Snoke was so arrogant, he failed to see that his apprentice was going to kill him.
The ugly, deformed monster that physically tortures him instead of Ray, the pretty girl
who was nice to him and held his hand.
Snoke even made that statement about how it's a good idea to keep around a crazy man
who's evil because you can manipulate him into doing exactly.
I don't think he said crazy.
He was referring to Hux and he said he was an idiot.
He said he's an idiot.
He could be manipulated.
He wasn't crazy.
I don't think anyone would call Hux crazy.
He's just kind of stupid.
Yeah, he's not crazy.
He just.
He's what you want him to.
That statement was very wrong and he got murdered because he was a failure.
The Praetorian guards failed.
No, I'm kidding.
Those don't count as real characters.
They did fail though.
Ray wanted to get trained as a Jedi and she thought she could turn Kylo Ren good again
and she failed at both of those things for now.
So when Kylo Ren says let the past die.
Oh, look, Ray isn't a Mary Sue because she failed at something.
Yeah, I hear such a funny failure.
The whole she failed to like she believed in
someone and they failed her.
That's her failure.
Like, okay.
Really?
I mean, doesn't that take all the agency out of out of Ray?
If if her only failure is that somebody didn't do what she wanted them to do.
How in any way is that race?
Multiple people have said Hux is kind of crazy in the first one
because of the speech he gives is like, no, it's not.
He's not crazy.
I mean, he's incredibly aggressive rational.
I do want to someone just said Hux, not Hux as Snoke describes them as a rabid care.
If he like, I want to check the script.
If that's true, I could see how you can extrapolate crazy from rabid.
That's actually fair.
Yeah, but he's not though.
Well, he's certainly not Hux.
But the idea is, yeah, he does call him a rabid kid.
The idea you can extrapolate from Snoke in that statement when he says,
do you wonder why I keep a rabid care around in a place of power?
Occurs weaknesses that it's when properly manipulated can be a sharp tool thing.
Rabbit just means fanatical.
Doesn't mean crazy.
It means fanatical.
Unless unless he's referring of an animal.
Yeah.
Okay.
And that's the thing, actually, that would be applicable to Hux.
He is fanatical in support of the First Order.
Kylo, much less so.
Kylo doesn't know what he's fucking doing most of the time.
He just does whatever he needs to do at that moment.
Yeah, I think Ryan Johnson wanted us to think that Snoke was simultaneously describing Hux
and Kylo.
But that's just, again, a failure of writing because rabid does not describe Kylo.
He's to call him fanatical.
You might have been able to get away with that in the first half of The Force Awakens.
Yeah.
But here when he's literally saying, no, no, no, let's leave it all behind.
Let's go.
Come on.
Let's take a boat to Bermuda.
And she's like, no.
And he's like, all right, then I guess I'll just go right back.
Unless, of course, this is a possibility that Snoke was just trying to say that both Hux
and Kylo had rabies.
That is possible.
They could both have space rabies.
That is that is true.
You get bit.
There must be a couple rats on the Star Destroyers, you know.
Yeah, a few.
He says that is that he's the villain and he's wrong.
He's a big failure.
He's not learning anything.
The reason that he says that is because he's the villain and he's wrong.
The reason the protagonist succeeds is because they're the protagonist.
I feel like it's very generous.
This whole failure thing is very, very generous.
Like you could start, you know, like A New Hope.
You like Leia failed because Alderaan was destroyed.
Han failed because he did not end up paying Jabba the Hutt.
Luke failed because he couldn't save Obi-Wan.
Obi-Wan failed because he died.
You know, these these sort of descriptors, we are like, are these failures or are these
just you're skewing like.
Only Rey is the only one who has truly succeeded at anything in the Star Wars universe.
I just find it funny to explain what she did in The Last Jedi as a failure.
It's like her failure is that she's too pure of heart and too good and just too wonderful.
Also, she wasn't even wrong because Kylo turns out to be good eventually.
And in fairness to Jenny, she did say that she was like, she's wrong for now.
It's like, yeah, for now.
Yeah.
In the last movie, he stabbed his dad through the chest and it crippled him emotionally,
got him shot in the gut and ultimately led to his defeat.
That was a pretty significant mistake on his part by someone he didn't see
while after he killed his father.
He considered killing Han consolidating his like position that bad people good or at least
dark side good.
And the idea that it's like, well, he got shot after that and then he lost a fight to Rey.
That's obviously he considers killing Han a mistake now.
It's like, I don't know, does he?
Yeah, but that's a failure for us.
That's the thing.
If if you say that's a failure for Kylo is like, yeah, but that's a success for Rey.
So what happens to the theme now?
There's like the protagonist success succeeds, but the bad guy loses.
So that fits the theme of failure.
It's like, oh, this is why it's just worthless.
It's really annoying to listen to worthless thing.
Stabbing his other father figure through the chest and that made him play right into Luke's
hand and gave the resistance time to get away.
It's Kylo.
Oh, Luke, I guess the same mistakes over and over and.
Oh, I thought she meant Snoke.
Maybe that's his third father.
There is a Kylo's other father figure, his father.
He likes to stab the ball of the chest.
Okay.
He does that a lot.
I mean, he yeah, he stabs Han.
He stabs Snoke.
He tries to, he does that.
He stabs Luke's apparition, stabs.
I don't know if I stabbed a lot of people because he's a terrible, horrible person.
Not learning from them.
He was defeated in the last showdown specifically because he let the past die
and he forgot to learn from it.
Granted, I don't really know.
He was defeated because Ray somehow managed to overpower him.
She survived that force battle.
He didn't.
He got knocked out.
Yeah, that's unless she's talking about Luke.
Yeah, in which case you didn't lose fighting against anybody.
Like you lost chess with no other player like okay.
I mean, if anything, the first order lost zero people.
No, they lost the TIE fighters.
Yeah.
But then the rebels were reduced to like 20 people.
If anything, that was just they barely, the rebels barely escaped a route there.
It was only a failure of the first order in the sense that they didn't kill everyone
down to the last individual.
And that didn't even make sense again because they could have chased them
through outer space.
They just don't.
Yeah, it's kind of weird, but okay.
I know how else that could have gone for him that would have been any better.
Like if Kylo Ren had taken Luke's offer and been like, I want to be good again.
I imagine General Hux would have taken the opportunity to shoot him with every cannon
on every ship and Luke and Leia are watching horrified as little Ben is shot into little
crunchy bits out on the salt.
I don't think they really care.
After we saw TROS, they saw him get thrown down a fucking hole and they were like,
hmm, well, better luck next time.
And then we have Finn, Rose and Poe, and they have like a 12 step plan.
And it goes wrong at many different steps throughout.
And if they hadn't done anything, probably only Admiral Holdo would have died.
And instead, like most of the resistance died.
So this was a net loss.
What?
Wait.
So if if nobody had done anything on Holdo's ship, they would have successfully made it to
Crait in a hidden form and whoever stayed behind to pilot the radis, which for some
reason they needed someone to stay behind.
I don't know why it would have been Holdo.
She would have died.
La la la.
That's that's what her Jenny's point is.
But, you know, them having decided to go to Kanto bite to get the code breaker to do all
the stuff leads to loads of people dying.
So they failed when they should have known to just be apathetic and let everyone die anyway.
Who does it lead to them?
Who does it lead to dying?
So the fact that they did all the things they did got DJ the information to tell the first
order about the hidden ships.
They scan for them.
They shoot them.
All right.
So it's Finn's fault.
There's so much wrong with that whole through line, but that's what she's trying to say.
OK.
And yes, it is more Finn's fault.
But she's she's currently on the storyline of Finn and Rose's failure and justify it all
as part of the theme.
This is what happens.
We don't tell people there's a plan and they're going to die.
But they failed.
Absolutely the faults of the commander.
The commander has a good communication with your subordinates.
It's like if you're is that you can't just say, no, no, no, just just stay here and die.
And then you have some secret plan that you don't tell anybody.
And when they actually try to do something to save their life, you can't be like,
oh, you should have just done what I told you to do die.
Well, there's such a great leader.
Oh, yeah, it's great.
So basically what I'm saying is you can say whatever you want about the Finn and Rose subplot.
Like you can say you were bored subjectively by it or it would have been cooler to see them
undercover the first order ship the whole time and not have them go to that casino planet at all,
which is what I personally think.
They looked really cool in the outfits, too.
Or you didn't like it because of racism or something.
Oh, just because of racism or something.
Oh, great.
Wait, who do I hate you?
OK, whatever.
Why would you hate Kanto bite specifically if you were a racist?
Because of Rose Tico, you know, roses in the whole movie.
Roses in the whole movie, but like like the aliens on Kanto bite,
like I'm racist against the aliens on Kanto bite.
Who the fuck hates who?
Where did this racism?
I know it's just a way for you to deflect actual criticism.
This is what you fucking loonies have been doing for years.
But I'm thinking like who on Kanto bite?
Because DJ is why Finn's black, but he's Hispanic.
I believe he is the DJ.
I mean, they're close enough.
Oh, my God.
You have Asian, Asian Rose Tico, but she's in the whole film.
So it's not that part specifically.
You have.
I guess we hate aliens.
Yeah, it must be alien.
She's specifically talking about the fact we don't like green, purple and crazy old characters.
I mean, I like Thanos, but she's right.
I do kind of hate people, too.
Or you didn't like it because of racism or something.
But you don't get to complain that it was pointless because they failed.
The fact that they failed was the whole point.
The whole point.
You don't get to say there's no point.
The pointlessness was the point.
That's definitely not like a meta reason or anything.
Sure.
The whole point of the plan was that so they can fail that we can have our theme.
Oh, OK.
I was talking about this before.
I hate it when like a whole series.
It's bad enough when you have a full scene that only happens for a theme.
Like it's nice for it to have actual like other substance to it instead of just
this applies to the message of the film.
That's why it's here.
It's like, oh, especially when it's fucking contradictive.
But we're talking about a whole plot line.
All of it's fucking useless outside of the fact that it highlights.
Hey, you can fail and you can learn from failure.
Oh, OK.
All right.
I think we all fucking knew that.
But it's funny how people find it so profound and it's like, I mean, it's pretty basic.
They failed for a meta reason.
Neat.
That's good storytelling, I guess.
Number one, the film challenges you.
This is the take I've heard most often, usually by people who don't even have a
strictly negative opinion of the film.
They're like, hey, it was OK, but a lot of fans won't like it because it challenges them.
So what do you mean by that?
What do you mean it challenges us?
I guess we'll have to.
This is the largest point for the video.
So let's hope we get a good explanation time between me seeing the film and it coming out.
And in that span of time, I was just comfortably telling people with confidence,
yeah, you're going to like it because I was remembering all the stuff
people complained about after The Force Awakens and all the stuff people said they
liked, wrote one for that I didn't relate to.
This movie didn't just do all the stuff that Empire did.
It had some unexpected stuff, you know, stuff like smoke dying where I was like, whoa,
they went there.
So I was like, OK, no one's going to complain that it's just a retread of familiar stuff.
It was a retread in many ways.
They literally fucking stole scenes and repasted.
A lot of the beats really do match up.
And when Snowcock killed, if anything, I was like, oh, wait, they're doing this.
They're doing this now.
Oh, yeah.
Suddenly we were watching Return of the Jedi.
It was like, oh, they even do the whole like, look out this window and see your friends dying.
Ray, it's like Ray's like, I don't know these people.
I met them like a fucking day ago.
I met them like yesterday.
And then it had stuff that I consider really pandering.
Yoda shows up.
You have a really cool lightsaber fight.
You have Luke demonstrating huge force.
No, Yoda, Yoda ruins.
Yoda ruins force ghosts in multiple ways.
The throne room scene was one of the fucking most shitty fights I've ever seen.
So both of those points are bad.
Those are bad things about the film.
They're no good.
No good.
Very bad.
And she says Luke demonstrates the force power that like is previously unsealed or like super
strong.
It's just like a thought.
Yeah, he just did.
Yeah.
OK, it's kind of it's pointless and Luke does.
It's all like Luke's weird force.
Skype call towards the name of the planet, the sand planet, excuse me, the salt planet.
It's ridiculous, though.
You know, like I just don't I guess I don't understand it.
I mean, it's it's pretty dumb now, especially with Rise of Skywalker, the whole it's like
a thing of like a concrete wall.
There's a toilet on the other end.
You need to get to that toilet.
So you punch through the wall, breaking your hands until you finally get through.
It's like you just walked around it, dude.
Yeah, I don't know why you did this.
Like you did a thing that would guarantee kill you instead of just going there.
But OK.
Getting to show off to a whole army at the end.
I'm not saying this stuff was pandering in a negative way.
I'm just like, that's what I felt like it was.
Wait, all the stuff she listed were pand was pandering her.
I don't think she knows, like, well, how Star Wars fans are going to react to those seeds,
I guess.
Yeah.
Like ruining force ghosts and creating insane plot problems for all the previously established
movies.
And not to say there are Star Wars fans that love it.
Sure.
I'm just saying that, like, she seems to think that everyone was going to like those things,
which is interesting.
It's like, wow, I could tell you don't give a shit about Star Wars.
I really tell telling me that Rogue One was awesome
because Darth Vader cut people's heads off with his lightsaber.
I mean, that was anything like the only good part of the film, depending on who you ask.
Better than everything in TLJ.
Yeah, it was way better than anything in TLJ.
I'd much rather watch all that stuff.
So there's something for everybody is a romp.
No, I was like, she's so simple minded.
She's so just detached from Star Wars.
She's such a simple person that she thinks, oh, lightsabers.
They'll love it.
I get the impression you're not a fan of her work at this point.
Everybody likes lightsabers.
Well, I'd like to hear like smart things.
I correct takes opinions that aren't wrong.
By the way, I'm both sick and tired.
And my boyfriend, I want to go to sleep.
So we're going to head out.
I really I'm just saying you guys have a good time
dealing with the rest of this nonsense.
Oh, God, it's it's hurt my brain enough
to the point where I'm probably going to have nightmares about it.
So have fun, guys.
Do you want to plug the old channel before you head out?
Aiden Paladin and also all of you.
Aiden Paladin is a Y.
Enjoy that, I guess.
There will be a Star Wars video out
within the next probably week and a half
if I can get it done.
And my cold finally subsides.
Thanks for having me on as always, guys.
But wow, we this is getting worse as it goes on.
It's starting to give me a fucking massive headache.
Anyway, thanks as always.
I'll see you guys later.
See you later.
Thanks for coming on.
Bye bye.
Bye.
Nice to meet you all.
Bye bye.
What a he obviously sexist clear
misogynist kind of disappointed.
She wouldn't even finish the females video.
That's disgusting.
Awful.
Absolutely awful.
Well, that's all right.
We brought spares.
For the whole family, maybe it won't be everybody's favorite,
but everybody will like it.
And then literally the day before the movie came out,
I ran into somebody else that had seen a pre screening
and I was like, wasn't it great?
Just conversationally.
And he went, I hated it.
I literally felt like my vision had tunneled.
Like I had seen a ghost.
If I was in a movie, the camera would be doing the thing
where it's pulling back while zooming in on my shocked face.
The fuck is like, I can't believe that you are like,
I'm like never it takes I'm it says so much about your ability
to assess the quality of media that you were this surprise.
Someone hated the last Jedi.
This says so much about your abilities.
Yeah, it didn't like the second it finished the film.
I was already like, oh, this one's going to be.
Yeah, even I just walking out of that cold theater
into the cold, colderness, colder than just just just being
like, I don't know what that was because I like the last one.
But this is something what's happening to me.
And then I transformed into a werewolf.
My goodness, this part was made up.
And I was like, Oh, why is that?
And he was like, it wasn't as good as Rogue One, which he's correct.
Just my entire world view of the past week.
Also, I don't know if I believe you that this person is someone
you met and talked to was rocked to its foundation.
Anyway, those were the complaints that annoyed me the most.
Sorry, everybody wanted me to do this big takedown of the movie.
And I liked it instead.
Whoops.
I mean, I had complaints, too.
Yeah, that that is a pretty big whoops for you.
This is a pretty big whoops for you.
Don't worry, you'll you'll get better over time.
I hope you'll you know what they say.
Failure is the greatest teacher.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Take that to heart.
They just weren't anything that was big enough to detract from my overall
enjoyment of the movie.
Most of my complaints were little things.
It's not relevant.
Your enjoyment of the film is different from the problems that the film has.
They're often correlated in the sense of being able to recognize big problems can ruin your
enjoyment of the film because most of us use our brains to enjoy things.
But you do.
You know, floats right over to the window to show her the resistance ships being blown up
and they're like perfectly framed in that magnifying lens.
Like I know he can see things that are happening using the force.
So I don't begrudge him knowing the timing and getting that down.
But like the lens was right there.
When was the lens installed?
That's incredible.
Oh, you're nitpicking.
That's a nitpick.
I don't.
You have a problem with that, but not the fact that the force has been ruined.
Luke's character has been destroyed.
Like all that.
Like that's their problem.
But yeah, I was going to say.
And ironically, your problem.
The issue of like that is pretty is kind of funny to think about in terms of just
it's perfectly set up so that Ray could could watch it.
And I probably would.
I think I would classify it.
It's right before being what I would consider a more like a problem versus a
nitpick.
It's like, yeah, it's fair enough.
But coming from you, Jenny, like what the hell?
I don't understand this.
Like what it's almost I think we've had this issue before where we cover people
who are just fucking wrong about a movie like this.
But then they'll they'll say, oh, no, but there it's not like it was perfect
as if to redeem themselves from their terrible take.
And they say, oh, but there are things that weren't good about it.
And they named some tiny, tiny little thing that's completely inconsequential
while simultaneously ignoring the massive problems that the film does have as a.
No, this isn't the film's problem.
The magnifying glass is not the problem with this movie.
It's just like, I believe that's the one she goes to.
It's like, all right.
For sight.
Or how come they have a new different armor design for the stormtrooper executioners?
I mean, they're all.
It's not. That's not a problem.
Yeah, it's not.
We haven't seen one before.
It's not.
We don't know.
All the clone troopers had loads of different paints and stuff.
Like, who can why?
Come on.
And just because it's new to the audience, because we haven't had to
see one of those troopers yet.
Like, I find it funny that they have laser axes.
Sure.
But like, even that's not like that, but it's a double bladed laser axe.
So there'll be like a little neck disk in there, which is like, that's just.
I mean, sure.
It'll get the job done.
It just seems like unnecessarily twice the death rags.
Yeah, he's I dive.
I don't the deck side and the body side are both like double cut.
How is it that we get looked at as the nitpickers and you see this in her video?
I get people just listen to this and they're like, yeah, these are fair.
These are fair.
Unlike that more in rags.
They talk about nonsense.
Yeah.
They talk about the big fucking worldbuilding problems,
contradictions in the plot, but that magnifying glass.
Fucking rude the whole film, dude.
Glad you spotted it.
So couldn't any of them fill the role of executioner at any time?
Yeah, they probably they could.
I am in a culture where all of them have been conditioned from birth.
Is there really that much of a call for out of combat in-house executions?
Yes, because executions are often used to send a message to the rest of the people.
Seems semi-regular.
We see quite a couple of examples in just this trilogy.
Yeah.
Interestingly, though, JJ forgot his execution of troopers.
Well, it wasn't even his.
It was Ryan's, I guess.
But, you know, the ones that were going to take out Chewy, Finn and Poe,
they're not executioner troopers.
I have no fucking issue with the idea that you have specialized troopers
that are meant to execute prisoners rather than your standard troopers.
What if I told you that back in here in the real world,
back when we killed people by lopping their heads off, right?
That wasn't an easy thing to do if you were to do it properly.
Like a skilled headsman, right?
Was actually is like a valuable skill that you that you had and you practiced.
And they would go around doing execution jobs and getting paid for it.
That was a skill.
It makes sense that they would have a specialized person to do this.
In fact, I think I would have preferred it if they had more examples of
specializations in the first order, because they are mostly just troopers.
Everyone's true.
I mean, this is what we have in the real world.
You have everything from marksmen to mortarmen to all sorts of different roles
that are on the battlefields.
And like, I mean, look at all the classes in all the games.
You got heavy troopers, dark troopers and people with jet packs.
Because Mandalorian had the shock trooper.
Yeah, you have all sorts of different stuff.
You had the flame guy.
It's like, this isn't unreasonable at all.
This is your problem.
Is that the executioner man had a black shoulder pad?
Like, it's okay.
I think you said it's a fake nitpick.
Is this going to be a bait?
Is it going to is she going to turn it?
Is she going to be like, these aren't actual issues, by the way?
Maybe.
Maybe.
Executioner those guys dedicated role.
And are they in the outfit at all times when they're on duty?
I mean, like when they're on duty.
Like you say the same thing about all the storm troopers.
They probably just wear it for I don't know.
They're not in.
I assume that you would think that if a executioner was on duty, sure.
As for the rest of the troopers in the military, we have, you know,
your battle gear and everything uniform.
You put your armor on top of it, right?
But you also have like your dress stuff.
There's sure there's different kinds of casual wear.
I mean, don't we see like laundry robots in one of the scenes and TLJ?
Why they all walk around in armor.
Execution guys ripped off from Shrek.
I don't know.
So wouldn't that negate the anonymity of an executioner's hood?
Or is anonymity even like uniformity is like the point of an army, though.
So everyone in the army wears the uniform that the other way.
That's the whole point of a uniform is that you want to look different
to the other side, but familiar to your own guys.
Like, do you notice that every army in history that could provide their side uniforms has done so?
I also doubt that the First Order would want
anonymity with anybody in the First Order.
They want to know everything about each of their troopers.
Yeah, I mean, they're not even like people, even.
Yeah, not really.
They're just soldiers.
They're not even like they don't have personalities.
There's not like a person to hide.
And plus, it's menacing on like a mental level to their enemies,
or at least it would be if they weren't so fucking incompetent
to the point of being laughably bad at everything.
Do executioners wear the hoods for anonymity?
I'm not sure why they would.
Why do a wear?
I thought it was just to depersonalize the person who's killing you,
like to make it more of a procedure.
Oh, it's because executioners often wear masks to hide their identity and avoid any retribution.
Yeah, that wouldn't be applicable to to the First Order.
They would not get they fucking they kill people regularly.
Like, I don't think you would need to be anonymous, especially when you're brainwashed.
You know, let me.
Yeah, I'm sure there's I mean, I'm sure there's a reason for it.
I'd have to look into whether the first thing I read was, you know, true or not.
But I'm sure I'm sure there's a reason for it.
I mean, there's a reason for everything, be it good or bad.
Fab is defending TLJ.
Well, as some people are highlighting whether or not these arguments are actually like,
I have a feeling that if this is going to be turned into bait,
the idea is going to be like people who make arguments like this suck.
It's like, yeah, but you're not even good at like pretending to make these arguments.
Yeah, like we have issues with these.
Like the whole thing about what is the logistics or what are the rules of the First Order in terms
of what uniform, you know, did they wear class A's, class B's or dress blacks?
What are our our battle gear?
Like, where do we wear?
When do we wear it and when?
I don't know.
I don't know what their system is.
I'm not sure.
But he is wearing face covering masks a hundred percent of the time.
Do the executioner ones have trouble?
The officers don't.
Yeah, the officers do not wear masks.
But like their anonymity doesn't matter anyway.
They're all like on record, literally by like naming numbers.
Like who would who would want to take retribution for Finn
when he's being executed alone?
You know what I mean?
Like there would be no concern for that.
Friends in the mess hall.
Because I can't imagine their presence is great for morale.
Or this is my most specific complaint and I haven't seen anybody else say this.
Rey calls Kylo Ren a murderous snake.
And then when DJ betrays Rose and Finn, Rose calls DJ a lion snake.
I guess you see snakes on Dagobah.
So the Star Wars universe does have snakes.
But what are the odds that Rose and Rey,
who both come from completely different planets, would both be familiar with snakes?
Yeah, see now this would be the point where I would be tipped into thinking she's just fucking around.
Even then, let's analyze it.
Well, so snakes would probably exist on Jakku.
I would assume sand snakes of some kind.
We have snakes in the desert here on Earth.
Right.
So it's safe to assume that if space snakes exist, they would be on those places?
Yeah, it seems like it'd just be an animal that's known by everyone.
It's just another, it's not a specific snake.
I guess it is interesting because it's obviously being used more so as like you lying rat.
And then you're like, what, you're referring to the actual creature?
It's like, well, I suppose that's where it would have started.
We have womp rats, right?
No, no, what I mean is like the insult itself.
It's like Ryan might not have realized that you're actually referencing an animal from Earth.
Rather than it just being an insult.
That actually doesn't really matter because the fact that
they're using English already breaks the meta anyway.
Yeah, right.
We have to just assume that it's coincidental that they speak that language.
This is just something that we have to accept at a,
it's just one of those things we have to accept at a base level for fiction.
That they speak English and English words come from Latin.
So, oh, so Latin exists in this universe.
Oh, does that mean the Romans exist?
You know, that sort of thing.
You're just going to, it's one of those things where you just have to accept it.
Lying womp rats.
Session of fiction, yeah.
And what are the odds that the two totally separate cultures,
they were both raised in, both use snakes in their expressions
as a creature that carries negative connotations?
It took me completely-
That's a fucking thing here on Earth, you dipshit.
That's a thing here on Earth.
I mean, by that logic, they shouldn't even be able to speak English.
Well, yeah, that's the extrapolation.
But she's trolling, you guys.
So you fall in front of it.
Yes. No, I'm just, I want to be thorough with my criticism.
I know. The defense that's easy here is just like,
yeah, well, we're attacking the arguments regardless of if she means them genuinely.
How are we supposed to...
The biggest defense for Jenny Nicholson videos anyway,
is that all of her fucking shit is just funny.
It's like Dunkey, or who else?
Yeah, you don't have to be accurate if you're funny, guys.
She's pretending to be rich at it.
And it's like, yeah.
But wait, does it supply to the magnifying glass one?
So does it also not apply to the plan one?
Anything she said that's critical of the movie was probably a joke.
Anything that we consider to be inaccurate or overly critical was probably a joke.
It's just the automatic defense.
And this, by the way, if someone was to take something I said as a joke seriously,
and then they said, that's inaccurate.
And I said, oh, it's a joke.
And then they go, you're still inaccurate.
I'd be like, okay.
I know. It's a joke.
And if she was to say that to us,
like every criticism you made of this video is stupid
because it was all a joke.
I'd be like, oh, well, some people are taking it seriously.
So do you mind if we treat them as though they're genuine?
I'd be like, no, they shouldn't treat those seriously.
Yeah, we're gonna.
We'll let people know that, yes, it is better to take this as a comedy video.
Yeah, consider this my consider this me telling you.
Really out of the moment, instead of paying attention to Finn fighting Captain Phasma,
I was sitting there like, does every planet in the Star Wars universe have snakes?
Are there some cultures that have a different idea
about what it means to be like a snake?
Like in episode nine, we'll Poe Dameron.
Yeah, don't you see?
Being critical of a movie is just like this.
This is what being critical of things is.
It's all shit.
It is all pointless.
It's all worthless.
Honestly, I thought she'd taken one of our scripts.
This sounds just like us.
Sounds like some of those nitpickers.
Yeah, if anything, because I'm trying to think of us,
would we make this?
And if anything, it'd just be like an uphanded comment
that we'd instantly just continue from and not dwell on in any way.
And pay someone a compliment by calling them clever as a snake,
because on his home planet, snakes are known for solving complex puzzles.
Or is it possible that that snake we saw on Dagobah wasn't a snake?
It was just an alien.
What an insufferable cunt.
Just shut the fuck up.
I'm just waiting for the like, I'm like, I get it.
Like, at this point, I don't know why you keep going.
It's like, but we're not talking about Force Ghost.
We're not talking about Luke's character.
We're not talking about the hyperspace jump or hyperspace trackers.
We're not talking about all these stuff that destroys the lore,
causes plot problems, world building issues.
We're not talking about any of this stuff.
She's going on some straw man tangent about something else
that no one would have even thought to think of.
Okay, sure.
You told us you definitely changed our mind.
We're not a creature in this.
Someone said, couldn't you apply that to E.R.'s comments?
And I'd be like, yeah.
So if someone said I'm going to take his argument seriously,
despite him saying they're a joke and counter-argue them, go for it.
Yeah, you could still do that.
But when you ascribe, like, when you ascribe the beliefs to them,
like, for example, if Jenny told me this whole video was a joke,
she doesn't actually like TLJ, it is on me to be like,
I don't believe you or I do.
But she's made it clear that she says it's a joke.
But also, we could still assess the arguments made.
Yeah.
Either way.
And you could do that with E.R.'s comments,
however controversial you can assess the arguments.
Star Wars universe.
Maybe the word snake is just an extremely vulgar cuss word
and those insults that Rose and Ray were saying
were actually a lot stronger than we thought they were.
What other expressions in this universe contain the word snake?
I'm going to start saying, for snake's sake, land snakes.
And then I was like, oh, my God, Captain Phasma just.
Oh, so, oh, oh, so you ended all up with.
So you just end that with, oh, the whole Captain Phasma thing.
Were you happy that she died?
Did that subvert your expectations?
Was that a good thing?
Was that Ryan Johnson being super fucking clever like he was with Snoke?
Was that was that Ryan Johnson's galaxy sized brain
just being too big for everyone else who didn't like the movie
because he just so cleverly just had these characters do nothing
despite the importance or potential to set up.
This video is being like people can dislike it, but their points are bad.
That was that was her that was her thesis statement, would you say?
I don't know what their thesis statement was of that.
Like, you can't judge movies objectively.
But if you don't like a movie that I did, you're wrong.
I mean, it's not something that's new to us.
Certainly something that we've seen before.
Interesting how it only, you know, interesting how that only flows one way.
Anyway, we're actually a lot stronger than we thought they were.
What other expressions in this universe contain the word snake?
I'm going to start saying for snake's sake, land snakes.
And then I was like, oh, my God, Captain Phasma just died.
Right then.
That's yeah, that's it.
How does she have patrons?
I don't understand how people this stupid unable to judge the quality of things.
Also, I want to highlight there's nothing explicit there that she was joking
about all those things outside of the fact that it sounded stupid.
That just matches the rest.
I was going to say, like, how do you tell?
Yeah, like, I like legitimately, how am I supposed to tell what's stupid on purpose
and what's stupid because she's incompetent at what she does?
Oh, no.
Well, there you go.
Anyway, that was terrible.
But it was kind of good to talk about the Last Jedi again.
It's an old friend.
Yeah.
And I think brought us all together.
Got this all started.
So we got a video, I guess, for Jenny made by Hello Greedo because Hello Greedo is very well
known as being someone who's, you know, what did Hello Greedo think of the rise of Skywalker?
Does he have a video about?
Probably.
But I want to I want to this one's three minutes.
So he's called this.
Let's take a look.
Let's take a look.
I want to see.
So you didn't like a Star Wars movie.
It's OK.
And in the thumbnail, he's got a person crying.
Um, so this would obviously be this would be the perfect video
for Jenny Nicholson after seeing the rise of Skywalker.
Right.
That's how this would go.
Oh, my God.
Look at this room.
It's so sterile and Spartan and lifeless.
It's like a fucking laboratory where he sits in front of a webcam with his helmet on for his
let's plays.
It's almost like a room.
What a room.
Um, this isn't saying the one dick I ever in these series focus on the video is like,
no, this room is fascinating.
What it like you have the snow globe there, but literally nothing else.
No handles on the cupboards to pull them out.
It's everything's just white.
And I mean, the most exciting thing about this room, I guess, is the gray carpet.
No, the snow globe.
Oh, I don't know.
Maybe.
If we get it going, if we shake it up on the rug, though, I could curl up on that rug and just
snooze, you know, what a room.
Is this his work room?
No wonder his videos are so dull.
How dare you?
This is a great video probably.
I would actually see anything from this.
I'm excited.
Oh, yeah.
I'm ready.
There are things we like and there are things we don't like in Star Wars.
Welcome to the club, but nothing ruins Star Wars.
I don't know why I laughed at that.
So that's fucking wrong.
It's like everyone's like, I take issue with that statement.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, after the Last Jedi, after the rise of Skywalker,
after all the fan stuff that's been happening the last X amount of years, the declining revenue.
Is can't ruin Star Wars.
I don't know, man.
You're ruining it right now by wearing that mask in this fucking video.
You're ruining Stormtroopers, which is difficult because apparently they're a joke.
Now that's they're meant to be laughed at.
All right.
Let's let's see how he's going to clarify this.
I suppose nothing destroys what came before or the movies you liked once upon a time ago.
No, no, you can destroy things that come before it.
You can definitely do that.
Yeah, you can absolutely do that.
The best that we can do is just do the metaphorical equivalent
of sticking your fingers in her ears and going la la la.
Pretty much what makes the original films meaningful is a canon as a fiction that we
follow as a story is like the same thing that is supposed to make the new ones meaningful.
It's like this this source provided this story.
So we're like, oh, I really like that.
It's like this is the sequel to it.
And you're like, oh, I don't like that.
And so we have to go not that we ignore that actually go away that
in order to not have it be ruined, which is actually going against the whole
process you did in the first place to enjoy the original stuff.
Right to treat it as real slash to be invested in it.
Yeah, you're you're you're terrible, terrible.
Star Wars movies are putting a lot of Star Wars fans at a really difficult position
because we're trying to believe something that we know just isn't true.
And it's rough.
Hmm.
I'm glad I don't care about Star Wars anymore.
Like in a in a serious kind of way.
Oh, it's so freeing.
Feel liberated.
I'm glad I'm not tied to it.
Even characters or stories that you grew up loving.
Nothing is ruined.
That's hyperbolic dumb, dumb talk.
Hyperbolic dumb, dumb talk.
No, no.
That's see here.
Now you open this video with your favorite steakhouse shirt on and a goddamn storm.
It does look like it looks like it could say longhorn steakhouse in a little bull icon.
I guess it's a veteran's shirt.
Yeah, veterans United.
It's it does look like the steak at steakhouse logo.
But man, he's he says this stuff.
But then I'm like, now, every time I watch episode six, I'm going to know
that when Anakin picks up the Emperor and chucks him down the death well of the Star Destroyer
or the Death Star, sorry, he's not dead.
I understand.
Yeah, I'd love to talk to you about this.
I'd be like, how is that not ruining that?
I don't understand.
I.
That's the kind of bullshit I got slung around in 1999 with the old.
If you have to if you have to bleep yourself out, maybe just don't say it.
Um, some people find it fun to do it this way, I guess.
I guess that's very fun.
It's fun.
Besides censoring, it doesn't matter anyway.
Trust me.
Phantom Menace was released that ruined Darth Vader.
I'm never going to be able to take Darth Vader serious again.
Star Wars is ruined.
So the rationalization most people come up with is the once Anakin turns into Vader,
that there's such a significant turn.
The Anakin as he is in Phantom Menace and Vader as he is in A New Hope.
They're not the same person, which even in universe, they would agree with that.
Comparatively Palpatine surviving the fall at the end of episode six.
There's no fall in the explosion.
How do you rationalize that you go?
Also, yeah, the Phantom Menace is it's gotten worse and worse and worse over time.
And then it's become a living meme, which is the best thing that any
horrible thing can become.
The best possible possible fate has probably occurred to it.
It's definitely ruined in terms of actually being serious.
Okay, you don't have to throw a tantrum.
You don't have to try to make enemies on the internet with everyone who slightly
disagrees with you.
There's a lot of Star Wars.
I don't know. You just called us a dumb dumb.
Yeah, you just call those dumb dumbs.
Also, person with Star Wars channel wearing a fucking goofy ass helmet.
Star Wars helmet is telling us that, oh, shit.
A lot of people really fucking hate Star Wars now.
It's okay in a condescending way.
It's okay.
It's okay if it's fine.
If you don't like the thing that I've built my entire brand around.
It's fine.
It's fine.
I suppose that's true.
He has a vested interest in making Star Wars a fun thing to talk about.
Yeah, his brand is someone else's brand.
Just to go around.
There's always been a lot of Star Wars to go around and there's always-
No, there's less.
They just decanonized.
I was going to say they've taken lots of it away.
There's less.
Yeah, there's a lot less than there was before.
There's always going to be a lot of Star Wars to go around.
So if you didn't like a thing, cool.
Make some goofy videos making fun of the thing you didn't like.
Make a video essay or write a blog entry about why you didn't like the thing in detail and
have fun with it and get creative.
But the voice, my brain can't put the voice to the mask, to the video, you know?
I can with logic.
I can with Doomcock.
I can't with Hello Greedo.
The voice just doesn't match the visuals.
Could also be that it's a Stormtrooper mask and you kind of don't associate that with-
And you know what a Stormtrooper sounds like behind the mask.
And it sounds like the voice is coming from a different place than from him, you know?
Just doesn't fit.
It's weird.
Isn't he called Hello Greedo?
Isn't he on a Greedo mask?
As far as I'm aware, the lore on that is he used to wear a Greedo mask until it got
broken and ruined and then he replaced it with a Stormtrooper one.
Oh, okay.
That seems like a bad move, but all right then.
Well, it makes it a bit awkward, but what are you going to do?
Why you didn't like the thing in detail and have fun with it and get creative,
but don't act like one piece of the puzzle ruins the entire picture for you.
Not exactly a small piece.
Okay, so I don't happen.
So I don't know if-
What happened to Jenny?
Oh, we-
Jenny, she-
She was defeated.
Yeah, we defeated Jenny.
I'm sorry, I fell asleep.
That is-
Oh, no.
Oh, it happened.
Hey, she's-
I had a sleeping time now.
Aiden will not be the only one.
You're not the only one.
You're not the first one to fall asleep during Efap and wake up during Efap while we're still going.
Well, I fell asleep on episode 50.
Oh, did you?
Did you?
She begins to have to be made aware of this.
I did not know that.
Oh, my goodness.
I had no idea.
I didn't announce that I would be rude, but now I need to know what's going on now.
Well, we finished Jenny's video with-
Heligrit is telling us why it's okay to not like a movie, okay?
Jeez.
Oh, you mean in a condescending asshole way like he always does?
Yeah, pretty much.
No.
He killed his dum-dums.
It's dum-dum talk.
Oh, he said, okay, we're making the dum-dum talk.
When he had that little clip was going around of him saying,
oh, I'm a YouTuber.
We don't actually do our research.
We just read an article that's written by another person.
I'm like, go fuck yourself, dude.
That's why the channel's dying.
Yeah, fuck off.
Your brand is someone else's brand.
Do you have no reason-
Right.
What are you?
You're a-
What?
When you said, where's Jenny?
Were you referring to Aiden or Jenny in the video?
It's a video.
Oh, is Aiden gone?
You cared more about Jenny than Aiden.
Oh, my God.
Well, I don't have that screen up.
Oh, my God.
It's okay.
I think we're just looking to see if you did a zinger or not
because that would have been a nice sort of clap back.
It would have been good.
No.
No, I'm not that clever sometimes, especially when I just wake up.
It's all right.
The stories you love are still there.
No, they're not doing the love.
Yeah, so he's arguing that the sequels, well, any additional content to the OT
does not ruin the OT.
They're always going to be there.
It's like, so what makes a lot of the OT meaningful
can be changed by outside sources being sequels and prequels?
Yeah.
Well, I used the example of now in episode six.
We know when Anakin finally turns to himself again,
and he chucks the Emperor down the death pit of the Death Star
and explodes and everything.
That wasn't actually it.
He didn't actually do anything there.
If anything, he just made stuff worse.
It does the two towers thing.
I think I made this joke before with you.
But like the whole the beginning of two towers follows Gandalf down the hole.
We follow Palpatine down there.
He throws up a force grenade to make it look like he's exploded.
But then he like he cycles all the way down the hole
and he like floats up to an escape pod and shoots out into,
you know, some other area before it all explodes.
They said I was a fool for installing this ramp down here.
Just in case I ever fell or was thrown by somebody.
I knew Vader would do that.
Yeah, I know that bastard.
Fucking prick.
The scenes you love, the feelings that you love,
they're all still there.
Nothing is ruined.
He's like the feelings you have are still there.
I like to consider myself an expert in the field of my own opinions and feelings.
I definitely do not feel the same about a lot of the older Star Wars stuff
because I know what becomes of it.
You think he knows less than you about your feelings.
Does he know that a red filter on a white mask?
I like how he's telling us that our feelings are invalid.
Um, yeah, I'd be curious to see how he'd respond to that.
But that's the thing that people tell us that we say.
We say it all the time.
Do we come on?
Oh, you guys always say you're entitled to your opinion.
But let me show you how this is like scientifically wrong.
Yeah, your opinion is incorrect, but you're welcome to have it.
If you could manage to.
After we're done with you.
Stop.
I didn't like Rogue One.
I'm pretty 50 50 on the rise of Skywalker.
So, wow, he didn't like Rogue One, but he's 50 50 on the rise of Skywalker.
I would be curious to watch his videos on them.
What that is legitimately interesting to me.
Like, I would be curious to know what he says about these two.
Because I think Rogue One is miles better than Rise of Skywalker.
Not even sorry.
Sorry.
Kilometers better than the rise of Skywalker.
It's a little bit close.
Celestial better in an epic way.
I am parsecs parsecs better.
I disliked it more than I liked it.
Same goes for solo.
It didn't do much for me.
So in this new era of Star Wars, I haven't really liked three out of the five movies.
That means I've loved and I would call it loved.
Is he German?
He loved.
Oh, he loved these two.
He loved The Last Jedi.
Did you see how he did three, though, with his fingers?
Yeah, he's European or something because he did it with his thumb.
Like laser.
But he has an American flag.
American flag veteran shirt.
He just really likes and glorious bastard.
I guess.
Percents.
So basically, this guy doesn't like Disney Star Wars, but he's yelling at us
for our feelings.
I think he just wanted to make a video.
I think, yeah, that's definitely the M.O. of Hello,
greatest channel, but he like I think he sees himself as the reasonable one here.
He's like, everybody stop going nuts.
OK, they're just movies.
Geez.
Movies, yet his entire channel is based off of those movies.
Well, as he as he sort of said, he's like,
it's OK to make fun of him and to even make videos, point out how they're dumb in some ways.
But I was curious where he draws the line.
It's probably going to be like, well, he eventually he just eventually got sick of it.
He got, yeah, dare I say it, he got triggered by so many people saying how shitty they were.
And so he feels like this is what he has to do for personal catharsis.
He's got to make a video.
All of them out.
It's not easy.
No, he's he's he's in it.
He's always hearing about Star Wars and how bad it is.
People around him talk about it.
People on the Internet, they won't shut up about how terrible it is.
This is his way to fight back against the haters.
Oh, my God.
He's fighting the good fight.
And people have highlighted as well.
He's got a video called the top five worst things in Star Wars.
And number two is the Emperor is alive.
Sorry, the Star Wars EU.
So he hates the idea that the Emperor comes back.
I guess I guess he doesn't he was not going to like episode.
Fucking nine, then.
Right. Did he actually read the books or did he go on Wikipedia?
I don't know, because I highly doubt after that one statement that he made
that youtubers don't do research.
I highly doubt he actually read the book.
Unless someone in the chat knows and can clarify.
About all 11 Star Wars movies as of this video,
there are five that I would say I love five out of eleven.
Forty five percent that I love.
Five that I want to watch over and over again.
Five that kind of define what makes Star Wars Star Wars to me.
And the other six movies.
You know, I'm glad people love them.
But for me, the other six are kind of just there.
Are you glad that people love them?
I'm all curious. Where is he going with this?
Like, is it just like live and let live, guys?
Come on. Okay.
Accept it.
Accept that you're not going to love or even like everything.
You don't have to love or even like everything.
That expectation is unreal.
Oh, boy, you are. Yeah. Oh, I think we accepted that.
He sounds like Chris Stuckman when he said like some crazy.
Some Star Wars movies are just going to be bad.
Just accept some film.
You're just not going to like some things you will like.
Well, but you will like some makers.
You're a fault. You're a big dummy.
You're a big dum dums.
Listic, you're going to be let down and disappointed often
if you navigate this life with those expectations.
All right.
Don't be how he done.
This is 2000.
And I don't know when he made this 2020, 2019, whatever it is.
Doesn't matter.
The point is that like the prequels happened.
I think for a long, long time, Star Wars fans have been perfectly aware
of the idea that there could be bad Star Wars movies.
Oh, yes, stuff that they're just not going to fucking like.
Like, yeah, we're aware of this.
Yeah, we know we're not expecting them all to be good.
If anything, Star Wars fans know this more than anybody.
Be an entitled whining head.
Oh, wow.
What we like.
Don't be an entitled whining fuckhead.
Jeez.
I know, right?
I feel like that's directed at certain people.
Very hostile feeling.
It would be extremely hostile if we do who's talking to you.
You can dislike something, but just don't shut the fuck up about it.
I don't hear it.
What we don't like.
We don't get hyperbolic and we look forward to the next chapter.
Giving things a chance and not automatically.
What do you think makes us look forward to the next chapter?
Yeah, exactly.
Why would we look forward to the next crap Star Wars thing?
The Disney squirts out of its anus.
Why?
What about what about Disney makes me like enthusiastic for the future of Star Wars?
I want them to stop.
Just it's dead.
You killed it.
Just stop, please.
Just let it rest in peace.
I'll come back in 10 years and enjoy other things in the meantime.
What a consumer attitude, though, you know, like.
Yeah, I was like, yeah, it was really shit.
But oh, don't worry, guys.
The next ones be optimistic.
They'll be great.
And whatever you do, you don't fucking talk bad about Star Wars.
OK, you whiny entitled fucking fuckhead.
God, he's playing the keys of the knee jerk.
Then the what?
Playing the actions of the knee.
Playing the keys of the knee jerk reaction.
OK, maybe maybe it was so terrible that we had a knee jerk reaction.
Maybe that's how terrible it was like putting your hand on a hot stove.
He's of the knee jerk reaction.
Hate piano every time something new is announced.
Hate piano.
Hate the hate piano.
Playing that hate piano.
Star Wars sucks.
You're trying to sound so profound.
And it's just not working.
Especially not that bad.
El Greedo's telling us what works on the internet.
It's like, OK.
All right.
announced.
For sure.
Maybe it works on the internet to stir up some outrage and feign anger.
What?
We can't be legitimately upset.
Feign anger.
Did you say that it's fake rage?
We can't be legitimately upset that you've destroyed.
Again, I want to highlight.
We are the ones that tell people they can't have feelings.
Remember this.
OK.
Oh, my goodness.
Look at the cover of this book.
He's pissed because I feel like channels are getting more traction
than him by expressing their anger.
And he is, you know, just bitching about it.
That's what this video was.
It was him being a passive aggressive asshole.
Look at the cover of this book.
Sorry about the.
Are you allowed to do that?
Like use a stormtrooper mask on there for your.
Surely that's copyrighted.
Like because you're not like.
I mean, I guess it falls under like wearing a costume or so.
Like I don't know.
I'm curious.
I'm legit curious if you could do that with like a book
because the internet is still kind of getting sorted out with all that stuff.
But like books.
I don't know.
Like I guess he could say he's a Star Wars channel.
So people pose the angry emoji of the keyboard piano.
Angry.
The hate piano.
But yeah, as as as Semantic Dragon just put it,
you are allowed to have any positive feelings you want.
Nope.
Just stay away from those negative ones, OK?
He's a very strange man.
And yeah, there's only one last thing.
I want to I want to throw on for us on our selection today.
And it's not going to be a full video.
I'm going to show you some highlights just right.
Has made his video upon the rise of Skywalker.
So Star Wars.
And as you can imagine, I listened to the whole thing.
Actually, I think I watched it with Jay.
It was it was entertaining.
There was there was some highlights I'd like to to show.
Go and check it out for the full context.
Right, guys?
I'm just I'm just playing a couple of clips that are kind of interesting to think about
in terms of what we know about good old just right.
So I'm going to I'm just going to play you a few selections.
This will be the first one at thirteen.
Yes, those are some of the only times the movie slows down
long enough to have two characters talk about their feelings.
But given how little either character is in the movie, it's basically wasted time.
It's time that could have been spent developing Poe and Finn's relationship.
They spend the whole movie together, but barely actually interact in a way
that develops coherently over the course of the story.
So no, this isn't just about appeasing fans who shipped the characters.
And no, it's not just about having more diversity in the film, although it is also about that.
But I think it would have made this specific movie
a tangibly better movie, a stronger story.
Yeah, that interesting.
What do you mean a better movie?
What do you mean a tangibly better movie?
What do you mean a stronger story?
What do you mean?
I don't I don't get it.
How can a story be better than another?
I thought it's just all whatever you feel like.
I want to know if you said tangibly better.
So you could feel it like it's real.
I just realize an objective.
It's fascinating to me that he's saying this.
That's all just like, wow,
could have sworn that this was something you you were arguing against.
But OK, kind of kind of interesting.
Next next highlight that you guys you're going to love this one.
This and sexist vitriol was directed against Kelly Marie Tran,
who plays the character of Rose Tico.
So much so that she eventually deleted her social media accounts and wrote an op-ed
in the New York Times about how the barrage of abuse affected her.
Rose was a main character in the last film and a character
I wanted to see more of.
I literally joy every time I see her.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my goodness.
He means his dick, not his act.
I jumped with joy when I saw Rose Tico.
Like, that's literally something I would expect to hear from the nerd crew.
I jumped with joy, whatever.
I want to invite her to my my basement apartment so we could play our switch together.
I just want to go to the cinema with him.
We see a movie.
She comes on the screen and goes, oh, it's jumping up.
It was so great doing whatever it was she did.
The the meme ability of just right.
I just like there's so much artwork that could come out of that.
You know, he'd be like, oh, my God, it's just
beautiful yellow fever.
I think you'll find this one pretty amusing.
This is just I know you'll definitely take issue with this.
All right.
Let's get to the big one.
Part seven.
Head cannon.
Oh, look, that rhymed.
Part seven.
Head cannon.
That doesn't rhyme.
Cannon.
Part seven.
Head.
All right.
Let's get to the big one.
Part seven.
Head cannon.
Seven and cannon don't rhyme.
Yeah, you'd have to really say I would if I was.
I can see how you think that they rhyme.
Yeah, I understand why you believed you were correct.
But and plus one another aspect of it is syllables and where the accent is seven.
Head cannon.
You know, head cannon seven.
It's they don't quite it.
No, don't seven cannon.
It's just it's close.
I know why he said it.
I just find it funny.
It's like see orange and door hinge.
It's just.
He's like the Mr.
Mr.
All about writing and stuff just like.
And then the only other thing that I thought was a point of interest.
Let's go from here, I guess by far the clumsiest scene in the film is when
Kylo Ren reveals that Rey is secretly Emperor Palpatine's granddaughter.
There are plenty of reasons for me.
Is is that the clumsiest scene in the film?
That wasn't even the point that I'm actually trying to get to.
But yeah, I guess.
His definition of clubs is probably be different from ours, I guess.
I don't know.
Like this, it reeks of more nostalgia bait.
Bringing the Emperor back means that three of the last four movies chronologically
speaking have scenes where there are three force users in a room and rebels fighting outside.
One of the reasons that's a that's a criticism of his that three out of the
four consecutive movies previously have scenes in which there are
rooms with force users in them and rebels outside.
Like how how strange is that as a statement?
I'm just I just like.
I mean, sure.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
I guess he's referring to the supremacy and outside being the rebels getting blown up.
Um.
The.
Okay.
What about Force Awakens?
They were in the Force Awakens.
Is he talking about when Kylo and Rey are fighting with rebels outside?
I guess like outside is in like in the atmosphere because like out like that's outside.
Maybe not like outside there.
I mean, I mean, the International Space Station is outside my room.
That's what I mean.
I just like when I was listening to this, I was just like, these are weird.
But yeah, check out the video because we're not covering it in full.
The most of it is very.
Rebels don't have space battles indoors, so it doesn't make sense, I suppose.
Just writes a very interesting person.
Like I said, the most interesting to me was just the it makes for a tangibly better story.
I'd like be like, you're spending a lot of effort to try and tell me it goes beyond your feelings,
but it is just your feelings, right?
And he'd be like, yes, like, okay.
Interesting that you're using these words, but all right.
Just right.
The enigma that continues to surprise.
But yeah, he didn't like Rise of Skywalker either.
Oh, my God.
Oh, interestingly, because the reason why me and Jay wanted to check it out,
we were interested by his the dislikes on the video.
It's more significant than you'd imagine.
It's like twenty nine K up to six point K through the three K down.
And going through the video, the only thing that we could assume that it was because of
was his his comments about Rose saying that like racist force her offline.
It's like most people whenever that's brought up is like proof, please.
Isn't his name is just right.
But in the title of his capitalized is the is is capitalized.
The is capitalized.
Pretty sure there should be.
I guess he's capitalized all of it.
A lot of people do do that.
He said first off, you said doo doo, which is funny.
I know.
But second, this thing is grammatically incorrect for someone who's I don't know.
It seems odd.
This seems odd.
I wouldn't do it myself.
Stop tapping the angry keyboard rags, the angry piano or whatever.
I'm playing a song of my hatred for Star Wars.
I'll see all their shows for free.
That pushes us to five hours.
If you include the the hour that got lopped off.
Hey, we had we didn't go down again.
So that's nice.
You know, that is kind of nice.
You just got to get over that over that hump at the beginning.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think the plan will be to read this stream super chance because they will more than likely
be relevant.
And then if we can, we'll get to as many of the overflow as as possible.
Yeah.
And yes, Anna, Lauren, you're welcome both to stay if you wish or to to eject
whenever you may feel as though ejection is the the correct thing to do.
You know, I wouldn't blame you.
Well, and I need to go because I have to I'm rendering trying to render this video
and it's not working out and I have to give it my full attention.
Well, yeah, that's fair enough.
Do you want to talk a bit about what it is you're rendering and what what everyone's got to
to to come from your panel?
Oh, yeah, it's it's this trailer rant for the new Bond movie.
Um, yeah, basically touch on some topics.
My problems with the trailer.
You're going to be hateful.
You're going to tap the keys of the hate piano.
Stop it.
He's playing that hate piano.
You shouldn't expect anything less for me.
Well, then lots to be excited for.
Oh, yeah.
And plus, you know, Batwoman is coming out next.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm so happy.
We're actually we're releasing our our reaction to what they do to Bruce Wayne soon.
So like people have been waiting for that.
So.
Yeah.
Well, my Batman react.
That woman reaction will my the reactions will be back on schedule next week.
And yeah, like I said, I'm doing a review on BBC Dracula and I'm going to make those
video about Finn and all that that all that shit is coming.
So yeah, that's my channel.
Well, thank you for joining us.
What do you think of Jenny's work?
Uh, I don't wouldn't classify it as work, but okay.
That's how I feel about her work.
I don't classify it as work.
Hey, it's tough to sit there and be wrong.
But yeah, thanks for coming on.
It's always nice to have you.
It's always nice to be here.
Thank you.
See you guys later.
See you around.
Bye.
Bye.
Oh, I actually joined the call again.
Oh my God.
Bye.
All right.
Then I suppose that leads us nicely into disgusting mess.
Disgusting messages from the many, many super chats I show.
I'm loading them up.
I'm delaying the inevitable because I can't reach them just yet.
Rags stole for me.
Well, I don't know about you guys, but man, Star Wars has just gone down the shitter.
I disagree.
It's better than ever.
But we've got all sorts of other things to replace it.
All sorts of great new things.
Like doctor, like Game of Thrones, like story.
Did you guys watch and dead still going?
I don't know.
I don't watch it.
Is it still going?
I heard that cut.
You didn't watch it yet.
Oh, well, I don't care.
I don't stay up to date with it.
I don't know if it's still going.
Watch it because you guys play the game walking dead, walking dead game.
Oh, should we?
Would that be good for a movie or gaming?
But you don't want the telltale game.
No, I'm talking about the Witcher.
Oh, oh, the show.
I haven't seen it yet.
Yeah, I haven't seen that.
I I've heard mixed things all over the place.
Mixing with, like, Shad and Wolf both said you mixed to bad.
Oh, yeah, I liked it.
Well, I wouldn't know these days.
Yeah, maybe we'll check it out.
Me and Rags have got a whole thing set of things to watch, unfortunately.
So we'll get there eventually.
But we've got to prep for that Ralph stream.
Rags got to know all those films got ripped off before.
Yeah, we got to watch one more movie.
One more of the three that Joker is constant.
We're told that Joker is a clone of baffles me.
But apparently, that's what the case is.
We got one more film to watch and then we're going to rewatch Joker.
They were going to take on Ralph's amazing.
They call it a video, I guess.
Yeah.
Call video is is editing opinion diarrhea on Joker.
It's going to be great.
We're going to have tons of fun.
This is where I'm saying it.
You all have.
We all have a lot of fun listening to the Super chat ball.
I get shadowed to talk about medieval implications of a hate piano
being used as a sword like.
What did you say, Anna? Sorry.
Oh, I just.
Hello.
The movie maker.
Oh, yeah, Ralph.
The movie maker is who we're talking about.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Okay.
You made a really bad Joker video.
All right.
So here we go.
Wham in man.
Good.
I think that applies because we had the male guests.
That's my assumption.
I think it's a bit of a stretch, but that's what I'm guessing.
Normie efap fan.
A new efap is out.
I'm so excited and gay.
Big brain efap fans.
I'm so excited and gay.
Slams laptop open.
What'd you bring me?
What'd you bring me?
I can't.
Oh, I miss Batwoman so much.
I'm looking forward to seeing Jacob again.
I want to see him get out of prison.
I am.
And shoot some people.
Go, Jacob.
Things will be back to normal.
We'll have our silly Batwoman show.
We'll have Jacob in his office with his laptop.
We'll have Batwoman just being gay.
It's going to be great.
It's going to be great.
Look at all these toxic Ewoks.
Yes, sir.
Excited for this one.
Listening at work tomorrow for sure.
Good old Jeb.
You'll like it.
Efap with women.
Yeah, you get to look at women.
I put it in the title, guys.
We came through.
OK, everybody wanted us to do this.
We did it.
We put off talking about Joker,
but off talking about Mandalorian.
Put off talking about Starship Troopers.
Those are three I know we have planned.
There's probably more than that.
Thinking about those three as a big Greek big three coming up.
What about reviewing Ralph's Joker video?
Well, there you go.
We just addressed it.
Yep.
And we're doing we're we're prepping.
We're doing we're doing something that the experts call research.
Moole's ease is the only women here.
How diverse.
You got to look at women.
That would have been a funny final super chat.
I think you got to look at women.
That was the experience.
Y'all should react to BLR's my stick from TLJ.
That sound familiar at all.
BLR's my stick.
BLR's might.
Uh, just a second.
BLR's my stick.
Uh, can you spell that?
Oh, I'll just I'll post it to you.
Bad lip reading.
Ah, oh, I have seen that.
Bad lip reading.
Oh, I have seen that.
Bad lip reading.
I didn't find it as funny as the Empire one.
But yeah, it's good shit.
Bad lip reading do good work.
Rewatch the prequel Star Wars trilogy.
And my God, it was worse than I remembered.
The romance scenes and Attack of the Clones are so horrible.
It's terrifying.
It is scary.
Uh, the yeah, the Anakin Padme romance could use work for sure.
I think that's what most people pick.
Attack of the Clones is being worse than Phantom Menace 4 is that B plot, if you will.
They're them sort of hanging out.
And obviously, Anakin's dialogue pulls people out of that movie hardcore.
I'm so in love with you.
Slider the wall like animals.
Uh, big ships can't tell which way is up.
And it's not like they literally have smaller ships inside them that can
pose extended edition line.
Yeah, right.
If the smaller ships can, you just need one to tell.
I don't even want to go over it.
It's so bad.
I hate it.
I know the way that isn't the ground.
Follow me.
Uh, Jenny makes videos for people who stare at the sun.
At last, a podcast of several fellow women.
Hollywood taught me I can't enjoy a show with men.
We're dominating the patriarchy of Efap.
Yeah, me and Rags got dominated today.
We were okay with it.
Hi, Rags.
Matthew 2227, new international version.
I'm guessing they want you to read that.
If I can, I don't know.
Matthew.
All right, Matthew 2227.
I'm sure it's very wholesome.
Matthew 2227.
And last of all, the woman died also.
That's it.
That's it.
And last of all, the woman died also.
All right.
This one just says nice.
This Efap is more diverse than the Oscars.
Yeah.
You know, we're fair.
The Oscars are unfair.
Well, maybe minority should be more talented.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't say that.
They're just amazing, wonderful people.
And definitely aren't, I don't know.
I don't care about the Oscars.
Fun fact.
With Shad, Wolf, and Drinker,
Efap has had more people with sci-fi and fantasy
writing experience than the Lucasfilm story group.
Hey.
Hey, all right.
Fan fictions.
They said fantasy.
Do you write fantasy ranks?
They will start with fan.
True.
True.
Not going to deny that.
And that is fantastic.
Press F for Windows 7.
Done.
Yeah.
All right.
Never been pressed Windows 7.
This is another super chat that just says nice from someone else.
I can't remember if there was a reason for this.
Question message.
What is the greatest love-breaking moment
from each Star Wars movie?
Love-breaking?
A breaking moment.
Let me know what that means.
Love-breaking.
Like it made you not love it.
Something upsetting?
Is that what it means?
So many results for love-breaking.
I legit don't know.
Oh, we're getting an F's in chat.
Oh, is that for Windows 7?
Yeah, that's for Windows 7.
Someone let us know what love-breaking means
because I legit don't know.
Like heartbreaking?
Maybe that's what they mean.
Maybe.
I know, but wouldn't you just say heartbreaking
instead of love-breaking?
Maybe they're like...
Maybe it's like an idiom.
English isn't their first language maybe?
I don't know.
Or maybe English is their first language
and they live in America.
America.
Immersion-breaking maybe.
Could be.
Could be.
I'm not 100% sure.
Someone said immersion-breaking maybe.
Probably means breaking.
Law-breaking.
Oh yeah, could be lore.
I love lore, right?
That's one of those typos.
That's, you'll want to catch those in editing.
Good job, chat.
This is why we have chat.
We did it.
They're very helpful.
They are a bunch of freaking detectives in our chat.
So, episode nine.
What is the biggest law-breaking moment,
do you reckon, guys?
It says of each Star Wars movie.
Yeah, that's what I was saying.
Should we go in order?
I was going to reverse order
because we mostly know the arguments
for these first selections.
So, it'll be more fun to reach the harder ones as we go.
The reverse order starting with nine, yeah.
Probably Palpatine being alive.
I think so, yeah.
It's weird that we have to like consider
all the possibilities.
Going to be between that
and possibly like the incredible force healing
and force powers in general, yeah.
So, yeah.
That is not how force healing works at all.
The force is literally just whatever it needs to do
at that moment.
It could do now.
Yeah.
Gone off the rails.
So, I'm going to go with the force healing
over Palpatine being alive.
All right.
Episode eight.
Episode eight.
So, candidates would be Hyperspace Kamikaze,
Yoda firing lightning.
Yeah, force ghosts being physical.
Does it count as lore breaking
to have Luke be a fucking asshole?
It's heartbreaking.
I don't know if it's lore breaking.
Because he is technically a part of the lore at that point.
Like who Skywalker is.
The entire movie is lore breaking.
Move on.
I gotta go with Hyperspace Kamikaze.
Yeah, I'd be comfortable going with that.
But I really, there's a lot of-
The stupid lightning though.
Unfortunately, there are many right answers.
Yeah.
Episode seven.
Episode seven, lore breaking.
Oh, fuck.
I guess everything to do with the empire
and the first order, that sort of-
Yeah, I mean-
The fact that the Republic allowed the first order
to be created and to rise to power.
And then Han Solo and Leia being terrible parents.
And yeah.
Luke abandoning everyone.
That's pretty lore breaking.
Luke would never abandon anyone.
It's funny, the damage does seem so much less
compared to the other two from Force Awakens.
I'm not saying it's not damage.
It's just when you look back, you're like,
oh yeah, they really ran with it when we got further.
But yeah, probably that.
I guess then we move to Revenge of the Sith.
This is gonna be hard for me in terms of lore breaking.
Lore breaking.
Padme just going from this awesome character
to a big crybaby.
Like, I get it, you're pregnant.
But look at the shit she was doing
when she was 14 years old compared to that.
Have you ever been pregnant?
Yeah.
Mauler, what about you?
Of course I have.
How dare you?
I'm offended by the question.
I identify as pregnant.
And who are you to deny me my identity?
Yeah, I mean, I'd happily settle for that.
The thing with Revenge of the Sith
doesn't break much of anything as far as I remember.
Lore-wise especially.
I'm operating on memory here to a decent degree,
but nothing really stands out.
At least none that I really remember at the moment.
Which is just to Attack of the Clones.
Attack of the Clones.
What would be lore breaking?
I don't know.
It's been a while since I watched it.
Yeah, like, I think I need to rewatch the three of them
to be able to answer these questions
within any kind of interesting way.
Because at this point, I'm kind of just like,
hey, chat, can you answer this?
Because I'm not 100% all this.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm trying to think of what actually
would be the lore breaking issue.
Sand.
Sand was never this powerful in episode four.
Let's see.
The movie didn't have time.
Pregnant women are emotional.
Anyone come up with an interesting answer yet?
Pregnant rags means income.
Oh, no.
They're saying we skipped Solo in Rogue One.
Oh, fuck.
You can't blame me for that.
Yeah, I forgot.
You got to remember, like, whenever people bring up Solo,
I all of a sudden re-remember that it exists.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
I guess the Millennium Falcon being given L33's personality.
Like, oh, that was.
Yeah, she's got a great personality.
Oh, what about all the robot stuff?
Like, are droids sentient and make them have free will and stuff?
Was that always a thing?
If they didn't have those weird things attached to them,
they'd go on fucking, like, robot rights riots.
No, the only thing about droids is that if you don't wipe their memory
every so often, then they get, like, more resistant to orders
because they're learning and they learn.
So they're more likely to, like, disobey orders.
That makes sense.
I don't know.
I mean, I still would pick the Millennium Falcon's memory.
But like, as I said in my videos, like, how do you fuck up a ship?
Like, how do you even do that?
Oh, they're, like, holding my beer.
Yeah, they found a way.
And then as for my annoying robot in your databanks forever.
How's the does Rogue One do anything that pisses everyone off?
I can't remember.
Like, lore-wise.
The whole movie pisses me off.
Rogue One, I don't think it does anything lore-wide.
Certainly not.
I don't think lore-breaking, no.
I don't think so.
Again, this is operating from memory, but nothing comes to mind.
That's kind of why I think it's the best of what Disney's done.
It doesn't mess with anything.
Unless, yeah, I feel free to correct me on that.
Because as far as I know, it didn't do anything.
Like, it's got its own problems.
Like, the characters being thin, the plot being a bit weird.
Like, someone said Rogue One making layer and talking CGI monsters.
Like, well, I mean, that's not breaking anything lore-wise.
Lore-breaking.
Yeah.
Like what Leia said was appropriate is just a weird CGI version of her.
I do not know.
They aren't boffins.
Oh, I guess you're right.
Well, the boffins are the ones that get the plans for Death Star 2.
No, because boffins are the ones that get it and Return of the Jedi not in The New Hope.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Um, Lore was-
Oh, the dream wasn't saved.
They didn't save the goddamn dream.
Good one, chat.
Um, let's see.
Tarkin's corpse.
Kid building a robot from nothing.
Um, let's see.
Rogue One is, uh.
You're gonna look at women, but I only see Inan rags.
Oh, yeah, well.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
All right, um, I guess that pushes us to Phantom Menace,
and I think most people would just say midi-chlorians.
Uh, and it's not necessarily that they actually break lore.
It's just that that's how it's understood, for the most part, by a lot of people.
And they just don't like it.
I'd need to, like, look into it very heavily,
especially with whatever ways they use it to describe it in the films,
but I don't know anything else that would fit the bill compared to that.
The Phantom Menace.
Did you mention midi-chlorians in 2 and 3?
I don't- I almost want to say if they do, it's very minor.
I can't remember.
Like, chat's gonna fight over midi-chlorians, though.
I'm sorry.
Fight, fight, fight, fight.
Um, so what's the most lore-breaking thing about Return of the Jedi?
The most interesting question would be, what's the most lore-breaking about A New Hope?
Yeah, where does the new- where does New Hope break the Star Wars lore?
I feel like the OT should just essentially not even be allowed to be
figured about this.
I'm trying to think of, like, Return of the Jedi is probably the only one that would qualify,
and I guess it's- Stormtroopers are kind of garbage in that film.
Like, I always think of that shot where, um, the little teddy bears have beaten them with
little sticks, and the Stormtroopers are like,
Ah!
Oh, no, no, they have sticks!
It's like, oh.
They grew their armament on the trees!
What is so cute?
They can just grow their weapons.
What- what crazy planet is this?
We should have never come here.
Oh, yeah.
All we have are this-
They mention midichlorians in episode three.
It could influence the midichlorians to create life.
The planet core.
Boss Nass.
Best character in the pre-calls Boss Nass.
Behind Dexter Jetster, of course.
Yeah, I bet he had a very short but thick penis.
Okay, um.
Anyway, uh, I'm literally on my way out the door for the night shift,
and you start an eFap.
Guess I'll download it and listen to it tomorrow.
See y'all around.
See you later.
Uh, hello, molar and ladies of eFap, including you, Rags.
How is life treating you all?
What's going well?
Yeah, doing well.
All's going good.
Any future plans you're all excited for?
Anything you're dreading?
Nothing I'm dreading.
Uh, I'm excited to get over those calls.
I'm excited to get a bunch of projects done.
I've been- like, it was a day after the, uh, the Rise of Skywalker video went out.
I've, I've already completed and redrafted the two videos I'm making for April Fool's Day.
Very, very excited about releasing both of them.
Gedelb is obviously, uh, any notes I'm taking for Gedelb are now going to be
put into a folder for next year.
So, sorry, the script is set.
But, you know, I did that last year.
Um, there was a certain comment from, uh, Hmamagai about moderation
that couldn't make it into Gedelb 2.
Guess which one that's going to be in.
Look out for it.
But yes, uh, I'm releasing two this year around and one of them, I'm,
I'm really interested to see what's going to happen when people are checking out.
Um, and then after that, I'm going to be working on a big video again.
So lots of exciting tisms, as well as all the e-faps we got coming up.
So much, so much fun, so much discussion.
So many potential guests.
It's, it's nothing but fun now.
Uh, John Boyega at Reylo's on Twitter.
They cry now.
Fucking, I bet he, he bit off all that he expected to chew on Twitter.
He probably was really surprised that the, exactly all those people fucking reacting.
It was those really weird comments.
Do you remember the one?
Um, I'm probably paraphrasing, but it was like,
he should know his place or something like that era.
Yeah, it's like, what the fuck?
Um, three wamans is the patriarchy is doomed.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Good luck dealing with her orbiters, you incel.
I'm sure we'll be fine.
We survived it the first time around.
It was funny.
It'll be funny again.
Efap can survive much worse.
No BS.
Efap 69 has a suspicious amount of women.
I'm sure you would fight it suspicious.
As in more than zero.
Oh yeah.
Anything more than zero is very suspicious.
Very suspicious.
Mola, why are you the only man on this stream?
Um, life finds a way.
That is, that is my answer.
Uh, I will name my kid, Admiral Akbar.
Admiral Akbar is like Jonathan Admiral Akbar Jackson or something.
Can you do that?
Like Akbar Williams.
Giving your kid, making your kid's name a rank is so awkward.
Like if they actually became ragged, it's like Admiral Chief.
You're like, wait, what?
But, uh, go for it.
It can't work out bad because he's dead now.
He died a hero.
There's no ruining that.
Um, a paladin, an Ewok and a Hobbit walk into an Efap.
Oh, glorious massive day.
Also Jay pointed out that Kylo's interceptor came back after it explodes.
The thing I talked to him about that.
It's just like the film can totally argue that he has more than one interceptor.
Right.
And it's like, yeah, but this is the one that had the McMuffin in it for sure.
And it's like, well, couldn't you just, you got ship number one and he went to Palpatine
with that one and he kept the McMuffin in it.
And then he went to attack Ray with ship number two, ship number two broke,
and he went back into ship number one.
Um, but that's giving a lot of leeway when it's much more likely they just forgot.
They probably just forgot.
Yeah.
Um, hello all my Ewoks glad I'm off to Wix.
Glad I'm off Wix six so I can catch revenge of the Jeb life.
Anna tell Moblin to play Kotor.
Also high regs.
Hello.
Play Kotor.
This is Moblin though.
Moller tell Moblin to play Kotor.
I will tell Moblin my, uh, I guess.
It's like my creature that I keep it by attic or something like Moblin.
Mob low.
Moggins.
When are we getting an unbridled rage on a prequel?
Um, I mean, I need to read.
We should probably rewatch them at this point.
We really need to probably.
But are you mad at them enough to do an unbridled rage?
I don't know if it would work.
Yeah, I don't, I don't think I can find enough of a sort of substantive
set of critiques that could justify an attitude that's like angry at them.
Um, because, you know, these sequel films have been fucking everything up.
Well, the prequels, what am I going to do?
Like be angrily angry at how bored I was at certain points?
Like, I don't know.
I'll have to rewatch them to find out exactly what I, I mean, I want to do some kind of longer
form analysis on the prequels eventually, but I don't know about, I don't know about a rage
video.
I don't know if it would work.
Um, no comment, just money for all of you.
Why?
Thank you.
Well, thank you very much.
Uh, hello, all my fam words.
Very, very inclusive after the new trilogy.
I want to get out.
I want to get into the OT, but I've heard that there are multiple cuts of them.
Any place to find the best cuts.
Uh, I believe de-specialized, uh, what a lot of people like to say, the strongest cuts.
It's like a combo of, um, trying to remaster it, but also trying to remove a lot of the fluff
that George ended up putting on in terms of CGI.
Um, but I mean, if you're going to get like super high resolutions, you could probably
put up with a CGI, like some random aliens in certain parts of the scenes.
Like some random aliens in certain parts of the scenes.
But, uh, yeah, we're probably not the best people to ask for that.
If you do some Google and you'll be able to find out, um,
what are the best answers?
Well, you can do what I do.
And I watch my old VHS version.
Yeah.
Are those whamen?
Initiate heavy breathing.
Oh, hi Anna.
DS9 is still the best Star Trek series.
No, it's fucking not.
That's, no.
What is it?
No, no, no.
There's so much wrong with that statement.
What is?
Just go, go rethink your life.
Um, oh, I'm impartial to the original series and then the next gen.
So those two are my favorite, but I think almost unanimously people like those ones
more than the other ones.
I've only met a few people that prefer DS9 compared to the rest.
But my biggest thing that bothered me about DS9 is the Bajorans.
Oh my God.
It's like, if you wanted me to become sympathetic to the guys that basically,
you know, took over your planet, that's the way to do it.
They're such ungrateful assholes.
But I know you guys haven't watched it.
So I won't go.
I don't know.
Bajorans, man.
They're, uh, Bajorans mask, you know?
Bajorans mask.
Um, yeah, I know the TNG is typically referred to as the best one from my memory.
And then the originals, I always hear a lot about how good TNG is.
This, uh, do you guys think it's terrible?
Yeah.
Is that?
Yeah.
Okay.
Or the Clara worst thing ever.
Yeah.
Uh, my friend has yet to meet tonal.
Don't bless him.
He may a stolfo.
I don't know what's happening with this.
Uh, please look at Ash and Hollow's apology letter to DS2 video.
It's short and bad.
Offy.
Um, so we were streaming on Metal's channel on Twitch.
And since it was a four minute, five minute video, uh, we put it on and wasn't very good.
He basically says that, um, he didn't used to like, uh, a lot of things about DS2.
And then he says like the fact that the law essentially ignores DS1,
doesn't bother him anymore.
And then he says that, um, the graphics being like kind of shitty,
it's just this, you know, whatever you can get over it.
And then, um, he says that the movement being bad, you can, you can get a fix for it.
And that's like the main thrust of the video.
And it's just, it's just funny to me.
So I'm like, Oh my God, there's so many more problems with DS2 than just them.
And even those, they're not really solutions.
They're just, yeah, I got over it.
Get over it is a, you don't, you don't tell people to get over things that aren't problems.
Yeah, I just, it was a beautiful sunny day.
Get over it.
Like this cake is delicious.
Yeah, we'll get over it.
Thoughts on Oscar nominees.
I guess they're all objectively good, like above average,
but the best of the Irishman and Joker also all hail doggo.
Oh, I'll hail doggo.
I am going to try and watch all of the Oscar nominations before they get their awards.
So we can at least talk about it a bit on an eFAB that comes after it.
A lot of these movies are probably trying to force rags to watch with me.
Like we watched Parasite.
Timing down to the radiator.
And yeah, there's, there's a couple I haven't seen still.
So it'll be exciting to see who wins what.
I hope Joker gets at least one Oscar.
I hope the Joker wins many of the Oscars, not because I value the Oscars,
but I just wanted to get recognition for being good.
I mean, at this point, it's just going to amuse me to see Twitter flip out because
they're going to be like, fucking Joker getting awards when it doesn't deserve it.
I'm just like, doesn't deserve it, right?
It should have been Captain Marvel.
Well, they would say the end game has the superior screenplay.
And I'm just like, that's crazy.
I like end game, but come on.
Greetings, toxic brew just got done with 54.
Y'all were talking about irradiating a drink.
Irradiating a drink, sorry.
And I just wanted to say that radiation is more tame than that.
And I was wondering if y'all have played this amazing game called Rage Shadow Legends.
It's free.
Is that the best part that it's free?
It's the best part that it's free.
It's the best part.
This is my favorite part.
Radiation is more tame.
I can't remember what we were talking about in 54 in terms of radiation, but fair enough.
Give Aiden Paladin 70% of this.
Sorry, Aiden.
It's not my fault that the wage gap exists.
Good to see Ephab back.
Damn.
I can see at least you're doing your part.
Loved your Rise of Skywalker video, mutually.
Well, thank you.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
And internet historian on Ephab Wen.
I am afraid.
You're welcome on.
I did get to speak to him.
I think he's seen some of our videos and some of Ephab.
And he's a very friendly dude.
Good stuff.
He told me he doesn't necessarily want to come on any sort of live streams.
As time goes on, he's less and less enticed to do it because he doesn't want to
sort of say some stuff.
He said he'd much prefer to do a scripted style thing.
And so I don't know if we can...
I'll try and talk to him maybe to get maybe like an Ephab movies sort of thing going.
I don't know, but he's not too interested in coming on Ephab.
The funny thing is a lot of people think that he and I sound the same.
I really don't get it.
Like I was watching one of his videos in his comment section.
They were like, this sounds a lot like Bowler.
I was like, well, if people are saying it, there's got to be something to it.
Yeah, I think I see why they would say that.
But I don't.
I don't think so.
Maybe it's because I'm so used to your voice, Waller.
I can just I know you're different.
Yeah.
But we'd happily have him on.
If ever he was like, you know what?
I do want to come on.
We'd be like, come right on, buddy.
Come right on.
Yeah, if I had a dollar.
Long women.
What a fascinating modern age.
All right.
Fine, Mola.
I agree to look at these women.
I guess it's only three fifths compromise.
Only a three fifths compromise.
Oh, I guess.
Yeah.
See how they reached that.
At three fifths, that's like 60 percent.
Seventy eight percent.
If you think about it.
That's the silence.
They agree.
This one says nice again.
Nice.
Oh, my.
Oh, no, my incel is kicking in.
Too much wamens.
Guys, you've got to control it.
Control your incelians.
That's like midichlorians, but in our world.
I would give sixty nine dollars, but I'm poor.
That is all right.
Thank you.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
And everyone else, since you guys don't get greeted enough.
And that's rude, but I appreciate you.
Except Jay.
Yes.
Hello.
And I'm sure Jay would appreciate that.
It's like saying hello to Jay to not say hello to Jay.
I know how it works.
He's used to it.
Most ambitious crossover since rats and plague.
I don't know what that implies.
Doesn't sound good.
Get to look at women on Efap 69 coincidence.
Yeah, complete coincidence.
Things just line up.
I thought it just works out that way.
Okay.
Twelve hours of sixty-nining.
Jeb Nicholson without consent.
Oh my goodness.
There's implications to that statement that are very inappropriate.
Too many persons of gender on my podcast fix it.
Also, if God isn't real, why is it a horse?
What?
Why is it a horse?
Atheist zero, celestial one.
What is it real?
Why is it a horse?
I don't.
Too many persons of gender on my podcast fix it.
If God isn't real, why is it a horse?
Oh, is Celestia the the MLP horse?
Oh, is is that the god of the MLP universe or something?
Celestia MLP.
Oh, yeah, Celestia is a princess.
Princess Celestia.
Okay.
It says, Alacorn Princess Celestia is an alacorn pony in the co-ruler of Equestria
alongside her younger sister, Princess Luna.
Man, we need to fucking read up on our MLP lore.
Who's ready for the Knights of Jen to raid this stream to?
Oh, I wouldn't have thought they would want to.
The Knights of Jen.
I like that.
The Knights of Jen.
Very good.
I'm ready to go through that tism again.
I don't think they would play that card twice, would they?
Maybe.
I don't know.
I guess we'll find out.
We have to save McQueen.
2715.
What was your favorite TLJ before TLJ happened and why?
Mine was AVP2 when the pred alien impregnated people.
Probably Terminator Genisys would be my TLJ before TLJ.
Mine was either Aragon or Avatar Blast Airbender.
Yeah, that's good choices.
They both infuriated me.
I think it Bioshock Infinite might be mine.
Hit that game.
Ah, good.
I'm eight minutes late and you haven't started.
Oh, this might be when we got cut off maybe.
I don't know.
Oh, it's probably the intro actually.
Yeah.
Efap with women.
All of Mauler's waifus.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Also, sending enough for both you and Rags to buy Outer Wilds.
Please at least buy the game.
Maybe do a video.
It's legit one of the best games of the last generation, potentially of all time.
Really?
Interesting.
I definitely have not heard that.
All I've been playing lately is one or two games of Halo between Wiccan.
And any free time is going toward movies right now, especially because of the Oscars.
But if I had time to play a game, I really actually wanted-
I won't be out on Steam for a while.
Yeah.
So, visit time.
Yeah, give it time.
I can't promise anything, but I mean, I might check it out.
I just like, I also want to check out Full in Order 2.
Like properly.
I still haven't gotten around to that.
I kind of want to.
Talking about Saint Jan again.
Didn't you learn the first time how sexist you are?
Also, Jay Long.
Loved your Dating for Guys video.
More like that, please.
Oh, I'm sure she will.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
I really hope Jeopardy crushes Crisis in ratings.
What's the, what's, what, Jeopardy the-
Joe?
Joe, yeah.
I mean, I feel like Crisis probably would get good ratings, right?
Because if you're invested in the CW, that is like the ultimate thing to watch.
If you are somehow invested in the CW, then this is actually good for you.
Because I've seen there's like trailers going around for like,
this is the finale of the Infinite Crisis on all of the Earths.
And yeah, so I think people will probably watch it.
They'll tune in.
Like I said, Brown Table has said on Twitter,
he's actually very excited and we watch it.
In fact, that's probably on right now.
Oh my God, that's what he's doing.
Yeah, I think they'd be playing like pretty much right now from what I expect of their
hearing times.
We're going to be watching it tomorrow.
Very exciting.
I'm so thrilled.
This is a suspicious amount of women, don't you think?
I do.
The Doom mini-efab was great.
I love the full play between Wolf and Rags.
A very satisfying start to a video.
Rags are just trying to teach Wolf about salads being made in cars.
Like what?
Wolf took it really weird.
Nothing wrong about slapping your iceberg down on the dashboard and just
slicing it up, putting it in the bowl, giving it a little mix.
And meanwhile, you're achieving a decent amount of travel.
What's wrong with that?
Yeah.
Will you read the Colin Trevorrow Episode 9 leak or what?
I don't know about this beyond.
Colin Trevorrow did a live stream yesterday where he was reading the script.
Excuse me, not Colin Trevorrow.
What it was.
It got Steve something.
But he was reading the script that Colin Trevorrow had wrote originally back in 2016
for The Rise of Skywalker.
And it was called The Duel of the Fate.
Some people are just checking out like how much better it probably is than Episode 9.
Oh, my God.
I mean, I still didn't like it, but it was better than, you know,
better than The Rise of Skywalker.
How is this possible?
Yeah, it's not hard to do, but lies.
But then I won't get.
Do I get my Reylo?
No.
Damn it.
And it's terrible.
I hate it.
Hello, All Might Ewoks.
Episode 69 with only female guests.
You're a naughty long man, aren't you?
Also, hello, Rags.
Hello.
Naughty?
How dare you?
I am an inclusive long man.
That's how it works.
Three women at once.
My eyes hurt from all of this looking.
Well, that's what they're for.
So you got to use them more and they won't hurt as much.
I love J Longbone.
The rest is fine, too.
Pre-kick J, Hi, Wags.
Hello.
Bob likes TROS because of all of its Egg McMuffins.
Yes.
Yum, he's got such he's got food.
Imagine how much that man eats.
I mean, he doesn't expend any calories, but still.
Yeah, I was going to say, maybe he doesn't have to eat as much
as we think because he's not like burning a lot.
Just stand up in some of his videos.
Yeah, it must be really, really draining to just stand there
like on his legs upright for that long.
He must he must stand there for like.
It is a green screen.
Maybe it's all CGI, Rags.
Maybe it's all CGI.
Oh, my gosh, you're right.
Maybe he's actually sitting and he just has a uses a green screen
to bottom half that.
Yeah.
So Efap is now a harem anime.
Pretty much.
I mean, wasn't it always?
Changes in lore, man.
I'm not made aware of them.
I'm looking at Wamin, except more.
He's a stinky white male.
That's my case.
Also, Jay, is your bone long because you're black?
Oh, my God.
I have to save that.
I mean, that's inappropriate, but probably.
I don't want to answer that question personally, I think.
Were you guys ever attracted to a cartoon character?
Hentai counts.
Going to go ahead and guess nose there.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
You're from the lawn.
What do you think?
You're from the lawn, Shang.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure I've been attracted to many cartoon characters.
No doubt about it.
No doubt about it.
I'm trying to think of who would be applicable.
Let's see.
Cartoon characters.
I'm thinking, thinking, thinking.
I'm trying to go through.
Like, who's the hottest Disney princess?
Well, that depends on your type.
Well, you know, I well, how about to you?
To me.
Are you are you with the Lesbonios?
I am not.
All right.
Well, pretend you were identify as one for the question.
Um, the one that I think is the prettiest is Pocahontas.
No, like the hottest Pocahontas Pocahontas.
That is a good answer.
That was one of the ones I was really considering.
Pocahontas is definitely up there.
Um.
Oh, yeah, we had the debate about the Hex girls on.
We did.
So we have Thorne.
Yeah.
Fucking James Moore suggested barge for me.
In fairness, when she puts her hair down, she she looks way less like a grandma.
Um.
Yeah, I'm thinking Pocahontas or this is like a Disney princesses list.
We've got Jasmine.
She's a looker.
Disney princesses is a really I guess Milan Pocahontas
and Jasmine.
That's right.
I chose none of the I don't know, man.
There's just some pictures.
Oh, my goodness.
I like someone said in chat.
Yeah.
Nala is a Disney princess.
Yeah, she's a go getter.
Wait, you're not sure they had for Snow White.
What about Batman from Batman, the animated series?
No, Batman's never done it for me.
Never.
Well, OK, then what about like Poison Ivy or Catwoman from the end?
Oh, uh, Chell from the road to El Dorado.
I would fuck the shit out of Chell.
Oh, my God.
Jesus Christ.
Chell from the road to El Dorado, man.
She was thick.
She is showing off the goods.
She she had free spirit.
Oh, man.
Do you remember that one scene where her head pops up,
but it's she's too far down to be kissing him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think they actually had an edited like a different version of that.
That was less suggestive that she was just fucking blowing them.
Yeah, I do.
I do know what you're talking about.
Chell is definitely up there.
Let's see.
Molly, you haven't answered yet.
I mean, you have to take part in the discussion.
People will think you're lying.
They'll think less of you if you lie by being quiet.
I don't care what they think.
I'm actually just trying to think of if any are applicable.
I don't think I've really ever been that attracted to cartoon characters.
I don't mind actually trying to write hotness though.
Obviously a lie.
Obviously a lie.
Oh, no, I'm trying to think of.
Let's see.
Um, the beast, of course, from Beauty and the Beast.
I mean, come on.
Let's see.
Who?
Gaston.
Gaston.
No, Gaston is he's got that that really huge chin and he's just so full of himself.
And he's I know we're not talking about the personality.
We're talking about how hot they are.
That's part of it.
No, no, no, that's part of it, man.
That's part of it.
Well, that is absolutely part of it, huh?
Just don't let them talk.
I can't you can't not let Gaston talk.
How are you going to be like Gaston?
Don't say anything.
It's like you just kiss him with sex with you.
Um, let's see.
Oh, people are saying Jessica Rabbit.
Jessica Rabbit.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh, I guess Maid Marian would be up there too.
We're going down that route.
Because we already did with beat.
Yeah, hell yeah.
She's a fox, right?
Oh, Asmeralda from the Hunchback of Notre Dame.
All right.
Absolutely.
Someone said Captain Marvel.
I don't know about that.
I don't know about that.
Well, like the cartoon vision or they actually referring to just
the normal one of who Captain Marvel?
No, because we're talking cartoons.
Yeah, I don't even know.
She's sort of a cartoon character, even as a live action.
She acts like a cartoon character.
Oh, they're saying Meg.
Meg.
No, not Meg.
She's a fucking twig.
Oh, I know King Triton.
I like King Triton.
You think so?
Yeah.
Have you seen him?
Yes, I have seen King Triton.
I've seen the movie, but his bottom half's a fish.
So it's.
Well, I mean, he can turn himself into a human.
But oh my God, he yoked.
I don't think so.
I don't know.
I would.
Oh, Coco him.
Oh my God.
Fuck it.
Yeah, absolutely.
Coco him is up there, man.
Who?
Coco him from Pocahontas.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, Coco him.
These fucking rip.
Oh, who's the.
Uh, who's Lilo's sister?
Nani.
What's your name?
What?
Nani.
Nani.
Yeah, fuck Nani's brains out.
Let's see.
Anastasia looks pretty.
He's he's good looking.
As you were Anastasia, I remember here.
That's not Disney, right?
Or is it?
No, that's not Disney.
Yeah, it's yeah, it's not.
It's not Disney, but we're just doing cartoon characters.
So she fits the bill.
No, I just wanted to clarify.
She's not Disney.
Yeah, I mean, we were talking about fucking
Simpsons earlier.
I don't know.
Strictly Disney.
What about what about what's what's the night in?
I know.
Zuko.
No, I like Zuko.
No, I'm biased.
What about who's who's the night in a hunchback of Notre Dame?
Phoebus.
Phoebus.
He's super hot.
And Aladdin's dad kind of a.
Yeah, he's pretty good.
A little older, but yeah, he's up there.
Looking pretty good.
I'm not a fan of blondes.
I prefer the like darker features.
That's yeah, that's Aladdin's dad isn't blond.
He's got a little streak of gray experience, you know, in there, you know.
Um, let's see.
Uh, Molly, you've yet to answer this.
Yeah, I'm all her.
Get what the fuck.
I already did answer.
You didn't accept my answer.
You called me a liar.
What do we do?
I just don't I don't know.
I just don't find the cartoon characters that attractive.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Maybe I'm broken inside.
Who's the who's the police?
Because I haven't seen Zootopia, right?
But you've got the stripper tigers from Zootopia.
Hell, yeah.
What else we got?
Starting to draw a blank here.
Cartoon characters.
There's probably all kinds I'm just not thinking about,
but it's hard to sort it out.
So I'm saying Lola Bunny from Space Jam.
We've been over that.
Princess Marita.
No, no.
What's that one movie where Brad Pitt is the voice of like the pirate dude?
Oh, Sinbad.
Yeah.
Yeah, I remember Sinbad.
I like that movie.
Oh, let's see.
We got Gadget Hack Ranch.
Who's that?
Oh, yeah, of course.
Absolutely.
Gadget Hack Ranch.
Undeniably.
Absolutely.
Someone said Elastigirl.
Good answer.
Elastigirl.
Very, very good.
Someone also said Timmy Turner's mom.
Another solid choice.
Elizabeth from Bioshock Infinite.
Wait, why is she in the air?
Is it her personality?
I just I get it.
Oh, well, someone said Eleanor from Wizards.
And I think yeah, she's a bit.
Yeah, I absolutely fuck her.
Absolutely.
She's thick.
The night this that's the 1977 Ralph Bakshi movie, right?
So yeah, absolutely.
Eleanor.
Let's see.
What do we got here?
No one mentioned Chitara.
No.
Someone said Raven.
I don't I don't do Raven.
I don't like the emo.
I don't rooting emo kind of thing.
I just.
Someone said Gay Finn.
Gay who what?
Yeah.
Gay Finn.
So.
So it's talking about Totally Spies.
I'm not very teen yet.
Let's think.
April O'Neill.
I know that name.
Teenage Mutant Ninja.
Oh, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
Yeah, she's good looking.
So I mean, we could.
I don't know how long you want to keep this going.
I think I feel like I've I feel like I've contributed enough
to this crystal from Star Fox Adventure.
Absolutely.
Undeniably.
Crystal is on that list.
How could you forget?
I didn't forget Cinderella.
I just don't really.
I don't know.
She's I just know it's doesn't do it for me.
I don't know if video game characters count or else
I would agree that universe is definitely up there.
So it's it's Sandy from Spongebob.
Handsome Squidward.
Well, that's it.
Obviously, handsome Squidward.
I mean, it's in the name.
So Rags.
No, I didn't mean Zuko.
No, no, no.
This one.
This question did go on to choose themselves.
Gadget hack wrench from Rescue Rangers.
Loved that thick rodent butt.
She is pretty thick.
Yeah.
Check my discord.
Baywyn told me to check discord.
Objectively, he said objectively the hottest Disney character
is Maleficent in dragoness form.
There you go.
She's better than Princess.
She's also a queen.
Yeah, I.
Yeah.
If she was in dragon form, absolutely.
No doubt there.
That's good.
Zira from Lion King 2.
Nah, she's too conniving and kind of slim.
I want a little bit more meat on them bones.
Garfield from Garfield.
Oh, that's great.
Sarah Bellum.
Let's who is that?
Oh, is that.
Is that the chick from Powerpuff Girls?
Miss Sarah Bellum.
You never see her head.
Yeah, she's I wouldn't I think her portions are kind.
So they don't call me cheeks or nothing.
Oh, my God.
So there you go.
A lot of Shrek's in the chat obviously goes without saying.
Bayonetta is a strong choice, but we're not allowed.
Yeah, absolutely.
Why no videos of Babu Chipman?
Babu Chipman.
Babu Chipman.
We've had a lot of Babu Chipman as of recently.
I'm sure everyone appreciates the break, you know, he's.
He's special, man.
Yeah, it's just something about not recommended in high doses.
People linked me to a video.
Apparently he made in 2015 about how, like, gaming is going to move away from PC.
Someone told me to look at Hogarth's mom from Iron Giant.
So we're going to take a look here.
She's attractive, but she's got that like super slender waist.
I'm just going to be on I level with you guys.
I'm I actually don't like a super slender waist on a level.
So.
Yeah.
There you go.
He just seems weird to me.
There is a lot of fun about the mom from Treasure Planet.
Oh, yeah, let's see.
Treasure Planet, Jim's mom.
Yeah.
Well, let me see.
She's kind of like.
She's kind of like.
She's kind of like.
She's kind of like.
She's kind of like.
She's kind of plain, but I don't mean that in a bad way.
Yeah, because we see like a younger version of her.
I don't know.
I'm on the fence.
I'm on the fence.
And all the yeah, there's not like any of the hot.
Oh, I mean, Captain Amelia is undeniably is above Jim's mom.
I don't think anybody would disagree with that.
The cat lady.
Yeah.
She has kids in the show canonically.
So I mean, she's you know, she's she's willing to put out.
Hmm.
He's really needed.
She needs someone to rig her sales.
Also, this ended with also high Anna.
Hello.
Okay, I have no video editing talent, but a golden idea.
Anyone that's watching watch this scene from the movie Wolfhound,
where he escapes the slave pit.
Imagine the dawn and the guard is Captain Marvel.
You'll know what to do.
All right.
There may be women on this stream, but rags will always be best girl.
Ever since Colonial Marines, man.
That is such a fucked up game.
Oh, yeah.
I ended up watching like highlights made by I think it was.
Birds elope with the sun for the the Colonial Marines one.
So much funny shit happened.
Let me actually get that into YouTube because I want to watch it after.
To me, I don't just fucking collapse birds elope with the sun.
If app gaming.
Uh, that's that's the alien.
Let me do you aliens.
Yeah, I have to look for it and find it.
New efap is a healing salve to my dark souls.
Also high regs.
Hello.
Flamenco and Gator are greater than rags and mauler.
Right.
Don't know what Flamenco and Gator are.
Flamenco and Gator.
I don't know what I want.
And don't worry.
Chat.
I said chill from Eldorado.
She's like fucking top tier.
She's like as double s plus tier.
Carmen San Diego.
Yeah, you can't fucking find her.
That's the thing.
Georgia and provided D&D a scant outline of the most significant events in the remaining
song of ice and fire books, along with the bare bones of the ending.
Which is why if he ends up going the same ending direction,
I imagine it'll be much more developed and justified.
You'd have to because he already knows how much people hate it.
There's no way he's going to do that.
Say you didn't expect anything different.
Yeah, you wouldn't do the exact same thing for sure.
There will be differences and those differences will be fascinating.
An efap with my three favorite wamans.
Sign me up.
Man of the show, but Anglos should finish whales off.
They do.
I'll just I'll just have to join Anglos, I suppose.
Wags, did you manage?
Wags, did you manage to view that Ted talk video?
Which one?
Don't know.
Then no.
I don't believe I did.
I haven't watched the Ted talk in a while.
We're talking about the.
No, I don't think I did.
The problem is that D&D translated it in the laziest, most rushed,
clumsily written and poorly constructed way imaginable.
Yeah, they kind of did.
Hashtag Jenny Nicholson hates Filipinos.
I don't know.
That comes from.
Hello, all my Ewoks.
Can't wait to see the arguments the white Knights of Jenny will make against this episode.
And I'll laugh maniacally at them.
I don't know.
Like I said, I think they'll leave us alone this time because they want to would want to make the mistake.
But who knows?
But who knows?
Big shout out to J.
Fucking Longbone.
She did great on that stream covering Ralph, the movie maker.
That's because I can keep that for you.
And yes.
Very much so.
Hello, all my Ray lows.
Also, hello, Wags.
Hello and hello.
Aiden is always a treat to listen to.
Smiley face.
Big, big red to electric boyfriend Boogaloo.
I don't know that one, but it should do well.
Sales.
Mark is the spank engine.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
My dog is currently watching me as I poop with the door open.
Made me think of you.
Oh, well, I'm that's really sweet that you let me know that and say he's he's a he's a
more bold doggo than I.
I'm Ray.
Ray.
Go Gary.
Fucking drop.
Willy and silly.
Go, go, go.
I'm not going to be able to pronounce that properly.
I need an actual like full on Welsh person to teach me that one.
And it says, say it till you get it right.
Moochly.
I cannot do this.
Aussie salute Rags.
I salute.
Fuck Mary.
Kill Aiden Anna J. Longbone.
Oh, my God.
Kill J. Longbone.
Her racism must be put to an end.
Her hate speech has to be stopped.
Mary.
You don't have to answer this, Rags.
Mary mauler.
I guess I echo those answers, except I would replace maul with Rags.
Simple.
Yay, we did it.
Gotta kill that racism.
Perfect answer for episode 69.
Can we kick Jay from the chat asking for a friend?
I'll have to do a vote, I suppose.
Mooly.
I just started Buffy's Bikes intro 10 out of 10.
Yes, great.
He's amazing.
It's like one of the best characters ever.
What are you guys thoughts on Joker getting 11 nominations and Twitter losing its shit?
Oh, it's entertaining as hell.
It's so funny.
I mean, Joker deserves it.
Yeah, like, to know if we're gonna run for a second with the idea that the Oscar means
it goes to the person that did the best job or the piece of media that did the best job
in that category, I don't know that Joker is supposed to win in every category because
I haven't fucking seen the other films yet.
But the way I see the Oscars is a bit of recognition for a piece of work that's good.
So I'm happy if it gets an Oscar.
I don't even mind if it doesn't get one in a specific category that I think it should have.
Just the fact that it gets one means that people are more aware of Joker.
That's fine with me.
But it looks like the selection this year is a bunch of movies that people do think are good.
Everyone keeps picking on Joker instead of anything else.
So if that's the...
I haven't even looked at the nominations yet.
If Joker is the bad one out of that selection,
then I think we're looking good this year in terms of, you know,
movies getting their fair dues, I guess.
But there are a couple that have been snubbed, as people say.
Well, I'm trying to think of what other movies came out this year or last year that were good.
Did Lighthouse get any nominations?
Because I know a lot of people felt that movie was very good.
I am.
I'm not sure.
But yeah, I don't really have much stock in the Oscars beyond the fact that they will
have people take, you know, a film a little bit more seriously in terms of like,
oh, my God, that might actually be good.
But I think Joker will win at least one Oscar and that will piss off everybody on Twitter.
And it'll be funny.
Yeah, but now we know that if you piss off Twitter, you've basically done something good.
Yeah.
Hello, all my Ewoks.
I'm so thankful for the opportunity to look at all my favorite whamen, especially wags.
Thanks, all you beautiful masses, for the many days of great content.
That girl always loves to be told she's pretty.
Yeah, I'm glad you're enjoying it.
Do not fear the long.
Embrace it.
Biggidius Baggins.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
That's the way to live.
Efap while at work.
Molesly.
No.
Anyways, hi, future me.
Also, hi, ladies.
And that includes rags.
And show J Longbone Steamboat if you haven't already.
Did we show her that?
I can't remember.
If we do show her, we should probably have it be live because her reaction would be priceless,
I imagine.
Steamboat was something else.
Steamboat.
Free Hong Kong Isle of Man number one.
Snow White.
Hi, rags.
I really enjoy listening to audiobooks, and I think that your voice would be very good for a reader.
Maybe give it a shot and stream or your channel even if it's more of the Pipeman's porn.
Even if it's more of the Pipeman's porn.
Um, yeah, I've been told that before.
Wouldn't be against the idea.
I mean, if somebody said, hey, we'll narrate this audiobook.
Let's give it a shot.
You guys should both do it.
You could narrate each other's lives.
I wouldn't be awkward.
Narrate the same thing at the same time, but out of sync just to confuse the shit out of everybody.
Uh, yeah.
Hello, molar.
I noticed a small mistake in your TROS rage.
You said that ghouls didn't have guns, but one of them is shown to have a rifle in shot.
However, all they did was bash him, so who cares?
Uh, ghouls.
Like in Fallout?
I mean, the only thing I could think they're referring to would be the Knights of Ren.
Ghouls don't have guns.
And yeah, I mean, they may have a rifle or whatever,
but they don't seem to use any projectiles, so.
Yeah, at that point, it's a club.
Use the rifle as a club.
Oi, Bloods.
Also, always remember.
Love me, women look in.
Love me, Star Wars takes.
Love me, 86% simple as.
Three cheers for Steamboat.
Praise the darn high wags.
Hello.
Trump derangement syndrome is real.
Yes, it is.
Battlestar Galactica is greater than Star Trek and Star Wars.
At this point.
Maybe.
Yeah, maybe.
Now, because yeah, the two have been lowered.
I heard the show was good.
My parents used to watch it, but I never got into it, but they said it was good.
I like the original Battlestar Galactica, not the remake.
But I only got through like the first 10 minutes of the remake.
It was very offcoming, so I stopped watching it.
Oh.
Could you have for Efap 500, Alex Jones debate Ben Shapiro with Tonald as the judge?
Oh my god.
That would be godlike, because I actually think that Tonald would agree to that.
If that was the setup.
Oh, absolutely.
We'd be like, we'll, we'll, we'll promote your channel.
We think you're a really good moderator because you're very interested in,
you know, people reaching understandings and you've been great.
Tonald is all about understanding.
Yeah.
I feel like I think that's why we feel such a personal connection to Tonald,
even though we've never met him, because we don't know Tonald,
but Tonald helps us to know ourselves.
Exactly.
Yay.
Aidan has returned also.
Hi, Rags.
Hey.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Hello, Wags.
Hello.
Konnichiwa Lagusan.
Konnichiwa Lagusan.
Bonjour Noragu.
Ah, bonjour.
Ton just says H-rag.
I don't know which, which one they're going for there.
Oh, H.
And then, hi, Doggy.
Hi, hello.
You're my favorite customer.
Tross and Bridal Rage is objectively better than the actual movie.
Also, Hi, Wags.
Hello.
Um, I mean, hopefully it's more consistent.
That would be a, that seems like it would be an easy thing to achieve compared to that movie.
I hope you'll reconcile with Jenny.
Everyone can change.
Remember that Jay was evil?
Was a hi from Belgium.
Yeah, I hope she puts out strong videos in future.
The two we've watched on eFAB weren't very good.
That's, that's, that's all.
Uh, check out Jay, Ishiro, Finney, and Kat Rocha for based comic reviews.
Uh, DS9 is the best track.
Kirk is the best captain.
Yeah, no, DS9 is not the best track.
Uh, but Kirk, I would say certain situations Kirk is better than other captains.
That, um, I'm just biased because I watched the original series first before I watched the next gen.
So it's, it's very much up in the air on whether I prefer Picard or Kirk,
but it's probably going to be Kirk, but that's just my own personal bias.
But no, nowhere near as DS9 as good as the other ones.
Dr. Khaleesi Rayneries Skywalker Palpatine Who?
I mean, yeah, she, she could have chosen any name.
Who would have been pretty funny if she crossed over into saying something like that though?
Rayneries, um, an eFAB on my birthday.
Yay. Apparently it was Jay Longbun's birthday as well.
Big Caesar was stabbed to death.
Oh, that explains Little Caesar.
Yes, yeah, uh, Boston's started making pizzas.
Boston's pizza, best pizza in Hawaii for 24 years.
Tim Pool has acknowledged Diabeto by name.
So legally you must summon him to an eFAB.
Love everything you do.
More like keep it up.
Also, HiRags.
Hello.
Or this actually says Ska here.
I am down for having Tim on eFAB.
Absolutely.
Also, is he actually referred to him as Diabeto?
That's hilarious if true.
If, if, if Tim is getting down with the eFAB memeage, then nice.
Local pizzeria very seriously told me you know only us.
I don't want to make of that.
You know only us.
Whenever you need pizza, you know only us.
Hey, Moolah.
Does force healing have limits?
We see Ray regen Kylo's insides and bring her soul back.
So by extension, Sheev can regen from a single cell.
Hashtag creamy Sheev lived.
Yeah, he just needs someone strong in the force to just touch one of his cells and bring him back.
Yeah, just to have someone with the force.
Just give him a little, little jumpstart.
And, you know, it might take 30 years, but he'll be back.
What's 30 years now?
That's why it's the biggest blower breaking thing, because it just, it doesn't make sense.
Also really fucks up a lot in the past.
But that's how you describe basically every sequel movie anyway.
Hi, Moolah.
I was wondering where calling the force the gay came from.
Gay people.
So I thought it was hilarious that, that Luke could sense that Kylo was gay.
That's why he was like, I'm gonna fucking kill you.
And then I realized as well, that when you just replace the force with the gay in certain
contexts, it makes the sentences really funny, because oftentimes it just doesn't make sense.
But it's amusing to say the least that you'd, like that is the actual thing that's happening.
Like this force is considered, is labeled the gay and then there's the dark gay and the light gay.
It's just, it doesn't make a lot of sense.
It's just supposed to be amusing, that's all.
Yeah.
There's missionary and there's bondage and all the other dark stuff.
It's just, it's a rabbit hole, you know.
Also, I'm glad I made it into the Looking at Women episode.
Don bless.
Don bless you.
Don bless.
How do you feel about Lord of the Rings using a software called Massive?
Hope they use it right, you know, because that's,
that's a patent that we will hit copyright for if they use it wrong.
Yeah.
Also, we don't want to have to, but.
Yes, don't force us.
Also, High Aiden, Rags, Longbone Anna, and Maul Longman.
Hello.
Hello.
I love you all, heart.
No.
No.
I'll see you guys after work.
Can't wait to look at these women.
Might as well ask a question with this too.
Favorite video game stories, everyone?
Um, so you got, we got a shit ton.
We can really choose from there.
Uh, Soma.
Yeah.
Soma's up there.
Soma.
Relike Bioshock's.
Yeah.
Bioshock ones is really good.
Dudes is fine.
Um, let's see.
I like Mass Effect's overall kind of minus aspects of the ending.
What other good video game stories come to mind?
Yeah, this is one of those.
It's annoying.
It's going blank in my head because it shouldn't be.
There's like a million examples and I'm like, hmm.
Uh, Halo is one of the best, uh, one of the best, uh, stories ever done.
I don't know what the fuck they're doing with Halo four and five though,
but the original Halos fucking fantastic stories.
Um, trying to think I really like Hellblade.
Um,
Fallout New Vegas had a good story.
Um,
Oh, Witcher three would probably be one that a lot of people would choose.
Yeah.
Uh,
Tetris, of course.
Oh, Dead Space.
I really like Dead Space story.
Yeah.
I can, I'd agree with that.
Thinking, thinking, thinking.
Uh, some of the Assassin's Creed's had good stories.
It's one of Battlefront two, the real one.
I guess it would be a five or first storyline.
Yeah, probably.
It's good shit.
I like a lot of those missions.
They're cool.
Of course, aliens, colonial Marines.
I mean, it's just absolutely top tier.
I denyable that.
Uh, I like divinity original sin two storyline.
I thought that was pretty nifty.
I like that.
I like that one.
Um, let's see.
Um, silly as it is.
Uh, oh, uh, I like echo story.
They're complicated, but I like echo story.
Enter the Gungeon has a nifty little story.
It's kind of, you know, silly and goofy, but it's kind of nifty.
Um, let's see.
Uh, I like, uh, amnesia, the dark descent as a good story.
I like black ops story.
Yeah.
Black ops had a good story.
Man of Madon.
Fuck that game story was terrible.
Um, mine sweeper.
I like, I liked praise story.
Pray at a good story.
Uh, stories, really good stories, video games.
I don't know.
I, I don't know.
After that, um, I mean, that's probably a good selection, right?
Yeah, I think that's a pretty darn good list there.
And I don't know if any more are going to, uh, I don't know if any more are going to pop up.
Um,
yeah, uh, if I were to make the best fan art, you could imagine for Efap, what would it be?
I don't know.
Um, it's weird because all of what you consider to be the best ones are all very different.
Like it depends on what you're going for.
Really.
Um, I love the splash page from, uh, Sid Nicholson made that one, right?
Um, but there's a lot of, uh, like all the ones we've, we've showcased over this year and a half.
Uh, there's really no, uh, no specifics in terms of what we would, it's, it's, I kind of like the idea that you just, as a fan, you think of what you'd like to sort of envision as a piece of fan art anyway, like based on the elements you like from the show.
Cause there's no wrong answers with Efap.
Uh, fan art as far as, well, there's probably some wrong answers.
I don't know.
Um, if not, thanks for the lulz also, also unbridled rage on game of thrones videos six through eight.
Uh, there's no, there's only episode six left.
That's the only one I haven't done.
And, um, I do want to do it, but I've got a lot of other things to do first.
Um, so it'll just be, um, you know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
Um, so it'll just be something that I eventually come back to, uh, with a fresh mind and I'll probably make quite the long video on it as a sort of goodbye to me and game of thrones maybe.
But yeah, for now, uh, it's not in production.
Uh, Mueller as a fan, as you're a fan of Martin McDonough, what do you think of three billboards?
Uh, I adore in Bruges and then I think I like seven psychopaths even more.
I'm going to make Greg see those soon because I love them both.
I thought three billboards was okay.
I, um, I didn't like it as much as the other two by far.
And I probably, it probably didn't help that I sort of, the first two are extremely good in terms of like comic value, as well as like having a dramatic undertone.
While the third one, I wasn't anywhere near as entertained on either level.
So it's complicated, but, um, didn't like three billboards as much as those two.
Um, a star destroyer has enough janitors to make it likely to just run into one of them at any given mission.
I think they got plenty of sailors on board.
I mean, what, what was the numbers earlier?
So did like thousands of thousands of thousands per each one.
So she's like, was it, was it 30,000, something like that?
Uh, for a star destroyer?
Yeah, 30,000 random question.
I don't know if this has been asked before, but what is everyone's favorite chocolate candy bar?
Say that one more time.
What is everyone's favorite chocolate candy bar?
Um, I'm a big fan of, I like Twix bars.
I, I like Snickers, Snickers are a fine, I guess I like Twix more though.
I don't really, I don't really do candy though.
Um, um, I like paydays.
I really like paydays.
The, the peanut ones.
I like topics.
And I also like the ones you mentioned as well.
Yeah.
They're like, uh, they got, uh, there's nuts in them as well as caramel, I think is probably how we described it.
Caramel, but, um, yeah, you know, there's a lot of the work, uh, favorites, uh, sometimes hard to pick.
What about you, Anna?
What's your favorite chocolate bar?
All right, then just saw a video that analyzed the best lightsaber fight in the star Skywalker saga.
Anakin versus Kenobi.
Cool.
Darth Vader versus Luke on cloud city.
Definitely supremacy thrown fight.
Really?
Well, it's very flashy.
No one's going to deny that.
Right.
Very flashy, very flashy.
They'll fool you.
They'll dazzle you with bullshit.
Uh, rag saying, oh my goodness for months and hearing it in the rise of Skywalker rage said by meals.
Lee is simply is a simple thing that makes me happy.
Thanks long man.
Hi rags.
Hello.
Yes.
It's, uh, definitely influential.
Uh, you guys see the Colin Trevor elite script.
Not yet.
No, I haven't yet, uh, Jay Longbone linked it to us there, but we were, we beneath happens.
So we got to give it a look.
I'm interested in it though.
I'm assuming Annie, you're not actually here, right?
Or are you, there is a question for her.
I shall save it for when she's, uh, after she rises and shines.
Imperial, uh, first class star destroyers have over 37,000 crew aboard 9,200 plus
officers and 28 K enlisted personnel.
Okay.
9,000 over 9,000 officers.
You need 9,000 office.
You need an officer for like every three stormtroopers.
That's kind of fucked up.
Yeah.
Seems silly to me.
Uh, status, like everything from pilots to maintenance, where it, cause it can't just be officers.
And I guess, I guess it's a, if it's a distinction between officers and enlisted, but still that seems like
such a skewed ratio.
It's like one to three.
Uh, star destroyers are much larger than the galaxy class.
Cause remember there has to be a trooper for every tie fighter on board, uh, on top of ground
troops and pilots for the ATSTs and ATATs.
There's a lot of people on there, apparently.
Yeah.
Um, today's my birthday.
Thank you for the gift, long man.
No problemo.
Happy birthday.
Don't know if you mentioned this already, but Darth Vitiate, uh, from the Old Republic
MMO did the exiled Sith Emperor empire story more justice than trust.
There's no way that anyone could do it worse than what the Rises Skywalker did.
So like people be like, it was better than the EU.
I'm like, it probably was.
Uh, Star Wars ST plot holes explained force X Machina.
Yeah.
There's only so many times you can use that before even like your average movie go, we'll be
like, this is kind of shit now.
Everything comes down to the floor.
Um, Hey, Jar Jar made the first objectively evil Disney princess.
So how's that for equality?
We did it.
Yay.
Uh, back when the story group still kid, the first order's whole thing is smaller fleet
of stupid, powerful ships that act as mobile cities as well.
So yeah, the supremacy was also the capital city.
I mean, like I said, with having 3 million people on it, like you, there's got to be
something going on there that's, dude, it's just like, what, you're just, do you just make
a numbers bigger?
Yeah.
That's all you're doing.
You're just making numbers bigger.
Um, I cried when Palpatine died.
Worst death ever rip.
I mean, poor guy.
All he wanted to do is real.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, the supremacy's life support technicians secede to form the city state of Atmosia.
They get in a fight with the merchant Republic of the sewage league.
All right.
Maybe that's in the law.
I don't know.
Um, I'm the only one that thinks that Anna looks like Yennefer from the Witcher series.
Uh, I don't exactly know what Yennefer looks like.
Oh, she's a hottie.
Oh, also, how is Alita not nominated for best visual effects?
Um, I don't know.
Yeah.
I haven't checked all the nominations, but, uh, yeah, I could see Alita getting in there
maybe.
Remember the Oscars are just tismy for the most part.
Yeah.
Uh, Ray can basically just go into avatar state.
Yeah, apparently they set up.
Remember in the beginning where she says that I can't get them to listen to me or
whatever, they totally set it up.
You guys just weren't paying attention.
Someone please force that long massive to watch avatar the last airbender.
I am going to, it is on the list in a, in a much more likely manner than not.
I'll get there.
Um, in the sequel trilogy, death is just a social construct.
Was that noise?
Is her waking up maybe?
Hello or, or it was.
I don't know.
Maybe it was sniffle or not sure are you there?
I know what's up.
We're talking about your super chats.
I'm sorry.
I fell asleep again.
Uh, I'm sorry.
There was, there was a question asking what it was like to be, to meet Vic Mignona.
Oh, he was really nice.
Was he too nice though?
No.
Just the right amount of nice guy.
He's very nice.
I just told him I felt bad for him and that my sister really liked his show about
the dude with the mechanical arm and stuff.
And then we talked about Star Trek.
Yeah.
Cool.
Uh, in the sequel trilogy.
Oh wait, I said that, uh, man, mola sure is lucky to be surrounded by four
beautiful women, this podcast.
Absolutely.
Mola, you should check out the witcher show if you have not yet.
It is pretty good.
Also you're in bridal rage explained episode nine better than the movie did.
Um, I tried those.
I said my video is very concerned with making sense because it's a very strange
film, like it's hard to keep track of everything.
And, uh, yeah, I'm not against checking out the witcher show.
I just haven't really got much of a reason to so far.
Um, it's not very topical.
Like not many people really talking about it.
Um, if they were, I would have more of a reason to probably check it out.
But right now, like I'm more invested in, uh, I'd be more invested in
checking out the last day bender than the witcher series.
Um, Anna, please make mola play Kotor.
I will get around to it one day.
You can read the Sith eternal page on the Wiki to see the crafted
rationalization of all of this stuff.
Probably all post-hoc though.
Well, yeah, how else would they do it?
Um, at this point, if you're like a law writer for any of the Disney
star Wars law, you must get so fucking annoyed whenever a movie comes out.
Cause they just destroy everything and you have to rebuild again.
You're like, Oh, Oh, he went through all of this.
It's like, Nope, now they've changed this, this, this, this.
Because, um, there's, I don't think there's like, if a book contradicted
a film, I'm pretty sure people would go with the film first.
Cause that's just where everything comes from.
So yeah, it must be really annoying.
We're likely to see the film.
So like all the Wikipedia and Wiki writers and law writers, again, they're
just supposed to get so fucking annoyed every time this shit happens.
Um, I think I figured out, I think I figured out why Ben disappeared.
He gave back Ray's life force and the rest of his to save here.
Still don't like ROS, but does this make sense?
Um, so that's an interesting question.
I guess we're dealing kind of with this the same way that we were with, um,
that woman where it's like, Oh, I guess not two of them could be alive.
Only one could, uh, they're sharing thingy.
But like, if, if that means she was actually dead, again, it's just weird
that she didn't disappear and that, that means you can actually resurrect
people at the cost of your own life in Star Wars, which surely that creates
problems for like the entire history of the world, because there's lots of
people who would have chosen to sacrifice themselves for others or whatever.
And if, and if this is the dawn of this new force power, this is it.
This is how that happened.
Fuck off.
Not don't, don't give me a bullshit of the, the, the power to save people's
lives was discovered by Ray low.
Wamans on eFAB.
Yay.
Love your content.
Jay Longbone.
Oh, hi, mauler.
Hello.
These armies are supposed to conquer and control millions of worlds.
Militaries in the billions are minimum requirement for believability.
Uh, well, they didn't get that far, right?
Do they have billions?
I don't know about millions of worlds.
Um, there's millions of worlds.
I assume they'll just start, you know, with a selection and then move
outward, they conquer, I don't know.
I don't need to believe that they were going to conquer every, well, I guess
they specify any and all free worlds are getting threatened, right?
So that is pretty much all of them.
Maybe they were going to just going to do portions at a time.
You know, this sector, then this sector, that sort of thing.
Um, I didn't like Jedi massive order.
Give Lucas arts to rock stars.
At least they make great stories like R2D2.
I always do this red dead redemption two dot R2D2 and San Andreas.
All hail the toxic brood.
All hail toxic brood.
As Wooly pointed out on CSB, knowing that Palpy made Snoke and magic the fleet.
Can you prove the Sith exist and wasn't just Palpy?
Um, do you mean like that he made all of the Sith previously?
Is that like the theory there or, cause I assume that, you know, like
Count Dooku, for example, was a Jedi once, not like he was made by Palpatine or anything.
But, um, magic-ing the fleet is insane.
Magic-ing nuts.
Yeah.
And Snoke was supposed to be like that.
Snoke being a test tube baby kind of explains the way he looks, right?
He's like this weird creature with all kinds of scars all over the place.
But I still just, it's weird that you can create someone that powerful from a test tube.
It's just, uh,
uh,
Horrible.
So yeah, I don't specifically know, but I think that there's plenty of Sith that
existed separately to Palpatine, at least in terms of creation.
Like he would have maybe trained them and stuff.
Yeah, I feel like the, um, like they're definitely, like what makes a Sith a Sith in
these movies is fluctuates.
It's, it's just being bad and Jedi-like is enough.
Is it?
I don't know.
Uh, the Star Destroyer crews are like Uruks.
They just grow in the ground and they just pull them out and train them.
Oh, right.
I mean, I think it's supposed to be a fucking joke.
The idea that they could just, yeah, I mean, everything in that film is just pulled
out of the ground, apparently.
They planted little Star Destroyer seeds and then they watered it and it grew into
Star Destroyers.
Makes sense.
That makes sense.
Uh, discussions like this make me laugh in 40K.
Um, I don't know which one that's specifying, but fair enough.
Probably talking about, probably when we were talking about the scale of the army
sizes and everything.
Oh, maybe.
Yeah.
Uh, happy birthday at J Longbone.
She would appreciate that.
The Scholar, the Scholar, the Comedian and the Spitfire.
Nice.
Is that referring to us?
You know, it just might be.
The Scholar, the Comedian, the Spitfire.
Who do you think, if those are Ana Aiden and J Longbone, who do you think they
refer to?
Aiden's the Scholar, uh, J Longbone's the Spitfire and no, J Longbone's the
Comedian and Ana's the Spitfire.
That could be it.
Yeah.
Wait, I was under the impression that all the Death Star destroyers, other than the
one that blew up the planet were unmanned.
And that's why they needed a command to go up.
Um, but we see loads of troopers, right?
Yeah.
We see a bunch of red stuff.
Also, even if they were, um, unmanned, you can still send a command to just, you
know, whatever the, the operation is to go up.
Um, you, you could test it out with like, if this was the case, cause I don't think
this is the case, but let's just say it was, you test it out with one, you know,
like you tell it to go up and it's like, I don't know which way is up.
It's like, just move a direction.
It does.
And then you can correct it to whichever.
Like C3PO knows which way is up.
How does the Star Destroyer not know?
Cause Nav can't tell which way is up, right?
Then it's not.
How then, how is it?
Now, if it can't, so that's like the basic job of navigations to which way.
I'll see.
I want to remind you that, um, it's not, they don't actually argue in the
film that pride knows which way is up because there are people on his ship.
They argue that he knows which way is up because of his nav tower.
Remember when the nav towers destroyed this tower here to tell me what.
Yeah.
Like when their nav towers destroyed, they're panicking.
They're like, Oh no.
And it's like, but you still have eyes.
I have a, this is an action.
This is a general worried that he doesn't know which way is up.
Without his tower, his up tower.
Uh, the death star has a crew of 1.2 million and only 26,000 storm troopers.
And yeah, I mean, I would make more sense to me that it's more made up of just
people who are maintaining the entire thing, the amount of checks and shit
you'd have to do throughout all the death star to make sure it was functioning.
You know, and I could believe there's also a, um, a community on there, like an
actual living breathing sort of populous of some kind, if the empire wanted it.
Um, 60 kilometers long, the supremacy.
I have been banned from our movie sickle jig rags.
Help me prove them wrong.
Oh, no.
Just, just don't worry about it, man.
Just move on.
Let them stir in their circles.
You're long man.
There's a leaked vision of Collins first draft before Fisher died going around.
Yeah, I suppose we'll have to give it a look.
See, I'm not exactly enticed to read an entire script of a movie that won't
exist that probably isn't that great anyway, because he is the guy who wrote
the two drastic world films.
So, but I suppose it'll be interesting.
Suppose it's hard to be worse.
Um, I just got banned by movie circle jig.
Can I have a mouth hug from you now?
Extra $5 if you can say high rags while doing it.
Well, I get a mouth hug while saying high rags.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Smooch and makes it hard to be very clear.
Yeah.
At that point, it would just sound like you'd saying a word while going like
someone, I don't know, doing the thing on your throat where you like,
make things sound all weird and stuff.
I don't know.
How do you say stuff while also using your lips for completely other things?
That seems impossible to me.
Other than making like farty sounds, but damn, they're impossible.
Um, remember when Patrick Willems said he could see the Star Wars saga
continuing for decades to come because of TLJ lol rip.
I'm sure right now he would say that JJ killed it.
I'm trying so hard to catch up on all the FAP started December 2019.
I'm on 18.
I feel so overwhelmed, but I need that law.
And good luck.
I suppose it's going to be a while.
We got some long ones coming up.
That's that's the early age of the FAP where the streams were really short,
you know, like four hours.
Nowadays, it's something different.
Days.
Oh, it's oh, we had no idea what we were getting ourselves into.
No, we didn't.
Um, finally, I can play with my dangest now.
Thank you, long man.
No problemo.
Uh, at one 1830 in EFAP one, Wolf mentions throwing someone off a roof.
Wolf predicted raw.
Also, who's ready for the Tisms on Infinite Earths finale?
Oh, we are going to love that shit.
I'm ready.
Um, that porg looks like he can't take her BS.
Oh, yeah, he'd fallen over.
He was upset.
Clearly, like he's done.
He's like, look, I was in the movie and he didn't even like didn't even watch it.
Oh, it's a jabby video.
Zips pants back up, sadly.
Oh, my.
Yeah.
You have the right voice.
You have the right to like the Last Jedi or Rise of Skywalker.
Anything you say can and will be used against you in a response video.
You have the right to an opinion.
If you can't afford one, what will be provided to you?
Oh, what?
Some of these people need some better opinions.
I'd be happy to give them some that are fine.
We have spare ones we can supply.
It's all right.
Oh, yeah, let's make some more.
Go in the back, print out, print a few more out.
Oh, what in tarnation is this stream doing on a Tuesday?
It's simply when things lined up.
That's how it do.
That is how it do.
They line as they might.
I've waited so long for you more to go after Jenny Nicholson since you made a reference
to her in your TLJ critique way back when.
Glad you're finally getting onto it.
Well, this is the second outing, actually.
Number two.
Yeah, the second time we have we have been horrible, abusive, sexist, Nazi,
non-men, non-human, basically bad men.
Seemed the only reason given in TFA for Kylo's turn to the dark side
was that he was the only kid in the galaxy who didn't want to go to Jedi school.
I mean, fuck if I know why he turns at any point in all these movies,
he's just confused.
That's pretty much the motivation or the justification.
Yeah, he acts very confused.
He he's I guess he's he feels very it's just even it's even confusing to explain.
Like, why does Kylo go from being good and evil?
And you're like, um.
Of course, he's confused.
Really, that's all I've got.
He doesn't know what's going on.
Um.
Hey, Mulder, I sent a super chat during your stream the other day and I missed the answer.
In brief, DS2 apologists and Ashen Hollow's apology video.
Um.
Yeah, like I said earlier that we checked it out on Metal Stream.
You can find that in his like backlog.
It's just one of the recent ones.
It's about.
I think it's after we or it's either just before or just after we played Pummel Party,
but we watched his video.
It's just we weren't very impressed.
He makes very poor arguments.
I got to hand it to you, long man.
You got a lot on your plate this year.
First, the ROS rage, then Game of Thrones vids left.
Then your steamboat praise you promised.
Yeah, it shall be prayed.
Steamboat and unbridled praise.
Looking forward to watching this tomorrow at work.
Yeah, hope it can entertain.
Jeb's Porg versus Quinton Sextal, who wins?
I mean, the Sextal is pretty heavy.
So if it's sentient and it can move, it's probably going to pack a punch.
But the poor could probably take quite a bit of damage being all floofy.
Yeah, it probably is just you couldn't punch it to death.
It would just keep bouncing around.
I'm starting to think like maybe it's down to the environment,
like which one could push the other one over something.
Yeah, they fight it.
We're fighting over a pit of lava, maybe.
Yeah, in Mustafar.
Yeah, which one has the hydrant or a story begins?
Oh, that is tough.
But, you know, I see Quinton Sextal being pretty like stiff in terms of movement
while Jeb's Porg does have a Jeb Bush inside it operating, so.
Jeb's got the skills.
He's like a like kaiju driver.
I think I'm going to throw my vote in with Jeb.
I think I will, too.
There you go.
How about Razorfist Arch-Warhammer Nick Hodges from history buffs?
Or besides that, that Sextal probably used to take in a pounding.
Yes.
Or Red from Overly sarcastic productions for epheb guests.
Well, we're going to have Arch-Warhammer on.
I have I have no idea if Nick Hodges would be up for coming on, but that would be cool.
I don't know who Red from Overly sarcastic productions is.
And as for Razorfist, I'm not against it.
I've heard people say that we should cover Moviebob if we have them on,
which we're not against that.
Yeah, it sounds like a fine idea.
If you were God over your own planet,
what would your chosen people slash sapient creatures be
if you decided to design them and what else would you do with the planet?
Well, I wouldn't have.
I'm not sure it's kind of like little as yeah, it's a really tough question,
but I know cancer stuff like that.
Not a good climate.
Knock out all of the really horrible shit, probably.
Yeah, we will take out all that horrible, bad stuff,
make a really good design for something that's structured well,
that isn't vulnerable to a lot of different diseases.
Doesn't have a lot of design flaws to reduce, you know,
really strong bones and healthy muscles.
To be honest, I might only just have animals
just because I know that if I have humans, it's going to get really complicated,
really fast, like just animals doing their thing,
maybe focus on landscapes, just like almost like you're drawing.
But like a lovely planet.
Yeah, lovely hill over here in a beach.
Maybe let's not do the whole humans thing,
because that can go wrong in loads of ways.
Just a dog planet. Yeah.
The only way to save Star Wars at this point is with Keanu Reven or Revan.
Sorry. Change my mind.
I mean, I'd be on board.
I have a feeling that's going to that's what's going to happen with Star Wars.
It's going to get like so awful that they eventually just give this like news.
You know, like how Joker is to the DC universe?
We just have this film come out of nowhere in the Star Wars universe.
That's like really good.
And it was like a director, writer and like a really good actor
plays a singular character.
And it's just they're making their way in the world of the Star Wars universe.
And we're like, oh, shit, that's actually really good.
And then they go, let's make 10 sequels.
And you're like, oh, no, no, stop.
So, um, you know, we'll see what happens.
Ah, another Efap that I will have to catch up on unless you're still going.
Good luck, long man and co. We'll see you soon ish.
See you soon. See you. See you.
Kylo's lame. He's just hot.
Well, I mean, if he does it for you, I guess.
Yeah, I guess if that's that's good enough.
All right. 69. Nice.
Also, hi, wags. Hello.
Hello. Mad lags kick in the jeb bear again.
At least this time you brought the right boots.
Can't wait to catch up on this one.
Aidan, love your content. Hi, Jay. Kick rags.
Never. Never.
Damn it, long man, I was supposed to be on this weekend.
I'm working right now, so I'll have to sit this one out.
I have my paycheck.
Also, hi, mewbsley, rag guls, anith, Jake, long bone and maiden.
Love much love.
Yeah, it was it was intended to be the weekend, but it's all right.
We shall have a content coming out regardless.
In fact, I have to kind of speed it up a little bit in terms of like,
I have to bring out the two episodes of Infinite Crisis
and then obviously the next two are coming straight after.
So I'm not sure how we'll get them out probably weekly to a degree.
It's not like a huge thing that we're on time.
It's just going to we're going to get back into a natural flow
once the bat woman episodes start up again.
Exciting times.
Aiden has researched bitches, also high ranks.
Well. Hmm.
Say what? Said also high ranks.
Oh, hello.
Imagine if instead of the Han scene, Kyla remembers what he did to Han Solo
and as a panicky crisis of conscience and vows to redeem himself.
Some would argue that that's what happened, probably.
But uh, but it's him telling himself that.
So it's weird. It's weird.
And yeah, I'm surprised they showed restraint.
I would have thought, you know what, they would be like, fuck it.
Force ghost Han, whatever.
Because I mean, they break everything else, so it's weird
because it's like we have force ghosts and now we have these guys.
Is that a force power you could do now for other people to make them hallucinate others?
You have to be dead to have them hallucinate them.
Yeah, I don't know.
Just saying one point seven billion is not that much for a galaxy level conflict.
Plus, the droids can be built any place.
Clones would have been fucked.
From what I remember, it does imply in a lot of the battles that the clones
like the average clone can defeat many droids before being defeated themselves.
Like the ratio seems to be in favor of clones.
But not like in every case, like destroyers or we get what the names are.
But those droids that have like the weird staffs that have electric on them,
they're probably pretty tough to beat, maybe.
I don't know. I forget what they're called.
Like bodyguard droids or something where I forget.
But yeah, like you could just shoot them.
This is why the separatists were such a threat, though.
Like you'd think it would have been pretty easy to crush them, maybe.
But it's like, well, the droids, there's just so many of them.
Um, yeah, no, I guess the galaxy level conflict was still only over a selection of planets
that they had like jurisdiction in.
They were just defending the Republic planets as far as I know.
Also, Jar Jar is an objectively flawless character.
No flaws at all. I agree.
Kylo is self partnered so he can forgive himself.
I know that meme.
If app is misogynistic here, we criticize Jenny, but have multiple women on happy.
No internalized misogyny.
Long man bad. Also, high regs.
Hello.
Well, please look up lie.
Liberian country flags on Google images.
The country of Lofa is my favorite.
Liberian country flags.
Lofa County.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Well, the one with the hand, the pole.
What is that?
Oh, my God.
Oh, yellow flag.
No, that is here.
That is hideous.
Some people say there are no wrong answers for flags.
People are wrong.
What is it symbolize?
That one with the hand, man.
Well, it's a shitty hand, too.
It's not even like like it like it would be on a bank note or something.
It's just like a shitty paint hand.
I like how the probably the most normal looking one is just the green cross.
It's like, yeah, OK, we that's fine.
Oh,
I've been a big fan of Efap and wanted to give a little back.
I recently got into video editing and writing because of you guys.
Thank you. And it's good to hear whenever you're doing anything
that's extensively boring in terms of like visual editing or whatever.
We will we will happily be in the background
talking about editing, writing, all of the stuff.
So it'll dovetail quite nicely.
There's a there's a carpentry term about that.
Yeah, dovetail crafts.
Rags, how much money do I have to make before I'll start attracting gold diggers?
70K apparently isn't enough.
I was promised gold diggers, God damn it.
I'm starting to fear I may have been lied to.
Maybe you just don't dress like you make that kind of money.
Maybe you're just an attitude as well.
Yeah. Yeah.
Maybe you need to be hoity toity and maybe you need to dress all nice
and your finest raiments and drive a nice car.
Golden bathroom are just going to see you and know.
If up 69, nice.
Jeb Nichols, Aiden, Jay Longbone, that's Star Wars girl.
It's ladies night and nobody told me.
What's up, my Ewoks ever thought about bringing in someone
that is hardcore into Star Wars law, somebody like Thor Skywalker,
Eckhart's Ladder or Meta Meta Nudes?
We certainly could.
Yeah, not against it.
Anyone. Yeah, I don't know what's wrong with me.
I just keep shitting Aiden.
That reminds me of a study,
but there's probably a study about that study on shitting.
I would think someone made a study just explosive diarrhea statistics.
Oh, God, when you dunkle taunts going to talk about knives out.
Also, I'm sorry, Greta Gerwig didn't get nominated for best director.
Also, high rags or hello.
Yeah, we should probably see little women, I guess.
So we can know how good that film is.
I've heard it's really good.
And as for Knives Out, I believe it's out now, possibly on Blu-ray.
We're planning on recording a Efap movies with critical drinker.
So and that could be an interesting one,
because I've heard from a lot of people that it's actually good.
So how about that?
He didn't have he didn't have any previously.
Fuck up. Yeah, yeah.
He couldn't fuck up Knives Out law.
Stream going down means I get to stop being lazy.
Thanks, GemTube.
What do you think about Babu Frick turning to the dark side in episode 10
after the destruction of his planet?
I would like to see Darth Frick.
I think that's the only logical that's the only logical thing to do.
That's hopefully that is what they commit to doing.
It would be cowardly not to do it.
So, yeah, this one just says the tism speaks.
But very true.
Oh, the tism speaks.
And this says that was the length of a typical podcast for once.
Oh, yeah. So when we got cut off,
that was the size of what would be considered a normal podcast.
Our introduction. And then God, is that just is that just a super chat to up to?
Apparently, just the point where oh, my goodness.
It's alive.
Yes, the stream came back.
Hi, Rags. Great job on having a black woman and two normal women.
Great diversity.
Thanks. It was tough.
But I need your help.
My G.F. is a Raylow fan and wants to have the jebby giant porgs.
What should I do?
The jebby giant porgs.
So wait, what's the question?
Well, the their girlfriend is interested in Raylow as a whole
and interested in the giant porgs as dolls, I suppose.
Ah, you might want to pull a Luke Skywalker here.
Yeah, you don't need to finish the job.
Just just consider.
Give her give her some some scary to wake up to in the middle of the night.
You know, it'll put her off till Jake.
She'll be like, oh, my God, I associate this with porgs now. No, no.
Red pill.
YouTuber uses token wamen to hide his red pill misogyny. Yeah.
Yeah. Was Sargon here?
God damn it, Carl.
He might have been in chat and that's what killed the stream.
You don't know, because, you know, this stream is gone now for five and a half hours.
So apparently the problem isn't, you know, it's weird to tell exactly what's what's wrong on YouTube's end.
Question for everyone.
I'm raising a chow in Sonic Adventure 2.
What should I name it?
Hmm. I mean, is rags taken?
Yeah, it's a possibility.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Something Sonic related, something that's about like being fast.
What about what about?
I don't know.
I'll be Frank.
What about what about what about shoes?
Shoes.
Shoes.
I can say it's original name him shoes.
Because Sonic has big shoes.
And now I don't know.
Name him shoes.
Shoes.
There you go.
Also, I'm trying to catch up.
There you go.
On eFap so far, I'm on eFap 45.
Wow, you're doing it.
Yeah, we got a couple of people trying it on the catch up train.
On the marathon.
Will they catch up?
Will they beat us?
I don't know.
Famous last words.
He's fucking dead.
Mola, eFap 2020.
Fucking dead.
Fucking dead.
Fucking dead.
Toss a coin to your long man.
Oh, podcast aplenty.
Lol69.
Also, hello there.
Hello there.
I miss Revan slash Bane when the dark side made sense.
Well, it's not just the dark side, is it?
It's just everything.
It's just the force.
It's just nonsense.
Great panel, both manly and mammary.
Very nice.
Hey.
Hi, wags.
Hello.
Just got Witcher 3 in Red Dead Redemption 2.
Which should I play first?
Happy 69, crotch lickers.
Someone said you just looked down and say the first thing you saw, Rags.
It's like, I don't wear shoes.
Why would I have shoes here?
I'm up on my chair.
I'm not wearing shoes.
So, Red Dead Redemption 2 or Witcher 3, which should be played first?
The Witcher 3.
Eggs has spoken.
Ephap69.
Nice.
Why is it an endgame?
They don't travel two weeks in time to when they found Phar Mathanos just before I used the stones to destroy the stones.
Just overpower him with two groups of Avengers, Ree.
Oh.
Well.
Shit.
Oh, fuck.
I didn't even think of that.
Yeah, because they know exactly when he did it, too.
Because they detected it.
Yeah, they know when he did it, and they know they can just cut his arm off.
I love how that cancels out the whole movie again.
There's loads of ways this movie gets cancelled out, but, yeah.
Femm, Mauler's chest is nice, but she's no J Longbone.
Femm Mauler's chest is nice?
Oh, right, from the art, I remember.
I wish we reproduced, like, Octopi.
Men would fill one of their body parts with cum, sever it, and then leave it out in public for a random woman to discover.
Should a woman eat it, she'd get impregnated.
Is that what they do?
That'll be interesting with the littering laws.
They fly now?
They fly now.
Those are two separate superchas from two separate people.
Nice lineup, guys.
Wow.
Good job.
My friend Carlos does not like Mauler because Mauler is a long man.
Mauler, Carlos will be watching.
Please yell at him.
Carlos, it's okay not to like someone because they're a long man.
It's okay if you've got bad taste, but we can fix that.
We can repair you.
We can make you better.
We can fix you.
We have good doctors, and we have good critique.
We're as objective as they come.
Believe.
Oh, boy.
One of Jenny's videos.
Guess there's another barrage of you just hate wamens incoming.
Oh, yes.
I mean, we're still reading out superchas.
We've got, you know, we've got another five, six, yes, six hours and three minutes before the cap.
So, you know, if we actually hit that, then it'll be like 12 hours talking about Jenny.
Oh, my God.
TFA critique part one, six thirty five to six fifty one.
Amnesia versus Soma part seven, thirteen fifty six to fourteen sixteen.
Long man destroyed by facts and logic.
I think we were I was going to read this one out.
It's it's been sent before, but I think it's me saying like to not describe something simply as either fun or boring.
And then in one of my videos, I described something as fun or boring.
The it's not the only point I make, I think.
But yeah, I you'll find typically speaking, unless I'm referring to like a bunch of people reporting the feeling or something or specifically how I felt about something that I'm probably not going to use the words funnel boring as arguments against or for something now.
I was going to write about this.
The idea would be that if I was to try and argue if I had an instinct, an instinct to argue something's boring, I'd be like, why is it boring?
And I go, oh, well, because it's the same thing I've seen over and over again.
I'd be like, oh, so it's repetitive.
It's the it's the same thing you've seen several times.
You don't need to say it's boring at that point.
Most people could probably tell that that would have that effect or monotonous, that sort of thing.
And then when it comes to fun, there's there's a lot of ways you can argue why something would be entertaining to you.
The logically satisfying is one of the ones that most people don't seem to care for these days of the video essay crowd.
What did just rise there?
Like those two are like antithetical, like things making sense and things being emotionally satisfying.
It's like, yeah, it doesn't make sense.
But there's a thing my brain notices that it does.
I noticed that it's bullshit.
It's all bullshit.
I noticed.
I know.
Like I noticed when you cheap out and when you take the lazy route, like what we noticed that.
And then it makes us go, oh, that could have been good.
Coulda woulda shoulda.
How goes MovieBob.com?
Like I said, I think we talked about this on a different eFAB, but if not, the money I just sent it over to Kiba Kins instead,
because the amount of time it'll take to secure MovieBob.com and then the sort of realization that we'll be spending a decent chunk of money for a meme
instead of just giving it to a person that is running a site that's like really, really good.
It's too close.
The fact that it's websites, I just like, oh, I just I'd rather just give it over.
But it's funny nonetheless.
Whoever owns it right now, what are they doing with it?
Because nothing.
It's for sale.
The domain name MovieBob.com is for sale.
Dan, fast and easy domain transfers.
Taking care of that.
You can make an offer.
Offers begin at five hundred dollars.
So if you want to buy MovieBob.com, make an offer.
Minimum minimum offer is five hundred.
I just went on it.
You could go down on the offer of domain and it could go into negatives.
Like I offer negative five hundred dollars.
Oh, let me do that, too.
Here, I'll do them better.
I'll do five hundred fifty negative five.
Imagine they see that.
They're like, oh, five fifty.
Sweet. They agree.
Wait, what?
Hey, finally, I can pay somebody to take this fucking website off my hands.
And it actually says like legally, they have to pay us.
They're like, oh, fuck.
Like, ha ha.
Cut your deal.
I won't sue you if you just give it to me for free.
Also, a good fix for strange strangers.
One way plan would be to have a line for him explaining he wanted a reality where the stones were destroyed.
And the only way that would happen is if Thanos won.
Why would that be the case?
They could easily sacrifice somebody instead of getting loads of people killed.
Yeah, it's half the universe.
Until that point, the stones weren't really doing that much.
And yeah, I guess this is only a potential fix.
Like it's not in the film, but if it were, I would still take issue with that.
I'd be like a lot of people died as a result of letting Thanos get those stones.
And I know that they bring back all the people who were dusted, but I'm talking about more than just those people.
Yep.
A trailer voice from the makers of three men and a baby.
A good doggo, a skull on wheels, a suspicious amount of women, and my main Ewok, directed by Jay.
Oh, you didn't come up with a name?
I was expecting a name.
Maybe someone else could make a name for it later.
I'd watch that show, and it's Cosby and Hitler.
Hashtag 69, maiden.
Damn YouTube and your sexism, how dare you not let us look at women.
Ra, get the roof.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Three women?
This is some good, good rat.
Indeed.
Anna, are you here currently?
This one says, I'm waiting for a fan story set before the EU prequel.
Where should I go for history of that time period?
Rags, do you agree with that?
Say what?
I'm sorry, I was looking at that.
No, it doesn't matter.
One more time.
It does really matter.
It's not actually anything.
Ah, very well.
Uh, Nicholson is pseudo-intellectual moron.
Oh, about Jenny, right?
Yeah.
69, part two, The Wham in Returns.
69's so nice, we had to do it twice.
Apparently the Darth Bane novels are pre- answering that question, I suppose.
From Chad, I mean.
Uh, Jenny is a Disney shill.
It's very possible.
Though she said she didn't like Rogue One, so.
Uh oh.
Yeah, that throws a spanner in the works.
Uh, hello you massives, except Rags.
Damn.
No.
No, hello.
Watch out for monosodium glutamate wink.
Uh, what is that?
Monosodium.
Glutamate?
Yeah.
Monoso.
Uh, it's right at the top there.
Is this sodium?
It's a flavor enhancer commonly added to Chinese food, canned vegetables, soups, and processed meats.
It's MSG.
Oh, okay.
Food and Drug Administration has classified MSG as a food ingredient that's generally recognized as safe,
but its use remains controversial.
Bum-bum-bum.
Did you hear?
Just right's recent rose take- rose tego take, he heavily implied the displeasure towards the character was purely- as purely bigoted.
Yeah, that's what-
Yeah, well he's a fucking idiot.
That's the only thing I could assume is what got him his dislikes on his video.
Um, because the rest of the video was pretty agreeable outside of the funny little moments.
Um, everyone knows what an emperor is, but you have to explain what a Snoke is in some way, preferably through action, but at least through dialogue.
Something.
Something.
Speculation.
Creamy Sheev's plan to take Rey's body failed because she also died.
Ben revived her before returning to the matchmaking lobby.
Okay.
That'd be hilarious if, like, Palpatine gets into your body, and he's like,
I don't know, I'm dying.
And then Ben sacrifices his life to restore what he unwittingly doesn't know is the new Palpatine.
Yeah.
And he's like, ah, yes.
There's no reason why that necessarily couldn't have happened, because everything she does up to that point, Rey, it's like, could be Palpatine in there.
Just saying.
Uh, O.T. and P.T., consistent story about the dysfunctional Skywalker family.
S.T., bipolar homeless man, fever dream about the Rey, the identity thief.
Yeah.
That, uh, the sequel trilogy kind of, kind of ruins everything in terms of, like, trying to find a through line for the saga.
Most people running with the Palpatine saga, or, you know, the, the Rey saga, to a degree.
Kind of dominates at the end there.
Um.
Episode 69.
Unmolar is surrounded by women.
How ironic.
Yes.
Rags is a woman.
Anyway, guys, which game slash book adaptation would you like to see on screen?
Doom.
Again.
Wait, why?
We have that, remember Doom Annihilation?
Yeah, but I assume this is, they want, like, we would want it.
Oh my God, it's out.
We have to see Doom Annihilation.
Yeah, it's been out for a while.
That's not our list.
Yeah, but I forgot about it.
It released on October 1st in Nigeria, but we need to, we need to look at it.
It's 3.6 out of 10.
That's amazing.
I, uh, what, what adaptations would you want, though, of, of, like, favorite games and books?
Do you think Bioshock could work as a movie?
Absolutely.
I think so.
Absolutely it could.
Mass Effect could be a movie as well.
I mean, that's basically just a different, better Star Wars anyway.
Let's see what else we got.
That would make good adaptations for movies.
Let me see.
Echo would make a good movie.
In fact, they're making an Echo movie.
Um, let's see, I mean, Witcher, they're making a show of that.
So I don't know.
That's all.
It'd be the materials there.
It's up to whether or not you, you know, can make it well or not.
Dead Space would make a fantastic movie.
Yeah, I think that could work.
Halo would be, there's a potential for a good Halo movie.
Absolutely.
Um, hmm.
I'm thinking, I'm thinking Garfield Kart would make a really good movie.
I think there's a lot there emotionally that could work out matically.
Star Craft wouldn't be bad.
Someone said Portal.
That'd be pretty good.
I think that could work.
Yeah.
So it could fall out like a lot of, a lot of games could be potentially
good movies.
The problem is at C Metro.
That's another one.
So maybe another good one.
It's just a matter of whether or not they can actually do it.
But a lot of game stories are just would be great for movies.
The evil within.
That'd be good.
Yeah.
They're not like the ripoff movies.
There's, there's like three Dead Space movies.
In fact,
Oh, you told me like the animated ones.
Yeah.
Um, Star Wars Girl, Jay Longbone and Aiden.
It's always an honor to have you on.
Hopefully the next, the new year's off to a good start for everybody.
May this year, this be the year that we learn what makes good rats.
I can only hope.
Thanks.
Good rat.
That giant poor cost 379 USD.
Well,
hope it was worth it.
Uh, rags, you're going to be forced to poop in a public bathroom with no stall door.
Um, I've sort of had to do that at summer camp, but yeah, you got to go, man.
You got to go.
Also in this scenario, you apparently sat down before checking if there was toilet paper.
Oh, well,
um, generally I'm generally pretty.
It's not generally a messy affair for me.
So yeah, you'll survive is what you're saying.
I'll survive.
I'll find a way.
I'll, I'll get something.
Uh, I recently saw a reporter on the news whose last name was long man.
That means there's more of them out there.
Yay.
Yay.
If app favorite Sith Lord and Jedi from the EU.
I haven't explored enough of the EU to have a good answer on that one.
I assume the same is from rags.
Yeah, I'm thinking so.
Uh, Jen's vid is an hour long knowing if this will take over eight hours to go through.
Oh, they're thinking of the, uh, the riser Skywalker one.
I think that's an hour.
Snow can grow hair.
He's a mammal.
Snoke milk.
Oh, potential.
I suppose.
Snoke milk.
Uh, will you have the smudening on efap again?
Uh, also what's your opinion on the shit still known as Star Trek discovery?
I would defer to read the media for that.
I don't know anything about it.
And, uh, yes, mud boy will probably come on efap again.
I don't see why not.
Uh, each time I hear the words art and massive, I think of efap.
Thank you for improving my life in this way.
And good luck with Jenny zealots.
We will survive.
Oh, we'll be okay.
Uh, Joker scared her in real life.
Hashtag car stop bullets.
Well, if you think they do that, maybe just believing in it will, uh, we'll have that take place.
I don't know.
I can't say.
Oh, my God.
Many thanks to you more for affording us this opportunity to view women.
This is the greatest day of my entire toxic male life.
Well, why the hell can't Jenny stop moving her eyes?
I didn't notice that myself, but I didn't either.
I get I didn't really notice that one.
Uh, Negan is my second favorite Star Wars character right after Darth Talon.
I don't know.
I like, um, I like, uh, uh, Skrull.
Yeah, Skrull's good.
Darth Skrull.
Hello, all my massives, jebbs, n-words, holes, the hole that is also an n-word and high-raggled.
Hello.
I recently found a lo-fi channel called Akira the Dawn, and not only do they have great mixes, they also have the Dawn.
Enough said.
Well, well.
A match made in heaven, lo-fi beats to get robbed to.
Um, will Aiden stay awake? Also, hello rags and all.
Hello. And the answer to that is no.
No, she's asleep right now, actually.
Yeah.
Yeah, she's out like a light.
As a child, I was terrified of Diesel 10.
I don't know what that is.
You don't know what Diesel 10 is, yeah.
I don't know.
A character in some way, shape, or form?
Diesel 10? Let's take a look and see.
Oh, it's almost the tank engine, apparently.
Diesel 10.
It's like the evil one, I guess.
Absolutely creepy.
That is a scary face.
Got a fucking claw?
But here's the thing.
I would want to be Diesel 10, because I would have like an arm.
Look at that face though, man.
Yeah, dude.
He's planning something.
Oh, man.
And he is excited by the idea.
You think the Raylow people are creepy?
Man, like the Thomas the Tank Engine fans, they're out there.
Is the Raylows, the Diesel 10s?
You know, these people, they're just everywhere.
Uh, I can relate to Jenny on this.
As a kid, I was scared of Shooter McGavin running in and kissing my grandma.
It was horrifying.
Hopefully you recovered from such things.
We must discuss the Ewok on Toydarian hate crimes.
I was unaware that Ewoks had committed such things against the Toydarians, but...
You'd think they'd be able to just fly away.
Yeah.
Just throw arrows in there.
Hannah is echoing when the video plays.
We sort it out, it's all right.
This one just says test.
It would be funny if Kylo took Ray's clothes in the Force Skype call.
I'm starting to think that that's not for funnies at all.
This person simply wants the clothes to be removed,
and I'm afraid that this series is very much not rated as R,
even though I don't know, actually.
Rated star.
Rated neudetism.
Rated F for frick.
Is Kylo's mind power better than Professor X?
Let's discuss.
No, because Professor X could literally control people, right?
I think so.
He could really influence people.
As far as I'm aware, he's super powerful with that.
The good guys win in family movies?
What about Revenge of the Sith?
Empire Strikes Back or Pirates of the Caribbean 2?
They all eventually win.
Except they don't, because they lose a gag in the sequel.
Yeah, what about World War II?
They eventually win.
In World War III.
Watch Hardcore Henry, you dumbos.
One day.
One day.
Promise.
Mubesla, have you seen the insider leak
where Rise of Skywalker was heavily interfered with by studio?
I don't know veracity of this claim.
Also, ahoy, ahoy, lady rags.
Ahoy, ahoy, and yes, I have heard those lady rags.
That'll probably be an efap.
We look at maybe that, maybe the script,
and we could do the I Hate Everything conversation.
That would make for an efap of not reacting to videos,
just sort of going through things.
It'll be the taxes version of efap.
Yeah, that'd be good.
Also, someone asked, would I F an alien?
Yeah, I would.
It'd be interesting to say the least.
Make sure you just clear it with the health board.
Make sure you don't end up in some kind of
Venus flytrap situation.
Or species. Have you seen species rags?
I don't think so.
That was a movie where I liked watching
sort of like scarier movies when I was younger,
and some of them were not rated because of the scariness.
Some of them were rated because of the other elements,
and then I'd be like, oh my goodness,
I did not know what I was getting myself into.
And Species is one of those films.
You know the plot of Species?
I do not.
You should Google it and read the plot.
Let's see what you think.
All right.
Let's see if it's up your alley.
Species, what's the year?
Like, I want to say 1980s?
Ninety-five?
Yeah, yeah, there you go.
Oh my goodness gracious.
It is.
When government scientists...
Oh, that's his name.
When government scientist Xavier Fitch...
Oh, Ben Kingsley.
...intercepts a space transmission containing
the genetic sequence for an alien life form.
He uses it to produce Sill,
a gorgeous alien human hybrid.
As Fitch's team grows more concerned at her rapid rate of growth,
Sill wrecks the laboratory and begins a violent quest
for a suitable male human to impregnate her.
The U.S. government dispatches two top assassin,
Preston Lennox, and a team of experts to stop her.
The budget was $30 million.
It made $113 million at the box office.
And it's essentially just an excuse
to have sex with a bunch of people
and kill them afterwards.
Oh my God.
And yeah, I guess it was successful.
Not bad.
And there's a bunch of famous people in it.
I think Michael Madsen was in it as well.
I'd have to check though.
I thought Kylo was the last of the Knights of Ren.
No, no, I don't think they ever say that.
No, they never.
I think because the only reference in TLJ was Snoke says,
he like introduces him as Kylo,
the master of the Knights of Ren.
Like no one says they're gone, I don't think.
So is Ren a place that he taking his last name from or a group?
I guess it's some kind of group here.
Is it like a Karl Ren and a Bob Ren and a Fitz Ren?
Billions slash millions of casualties
in a galaxy-sized war makes sense.
But not in Star Wars sequel trilogy,
which established fleets of a few dozen at best.
I mean, the sequel trilogy, I mean, the fleets are like,
they're enormous if you're considering Rise of Skywalker.
Yeah.
Enormous.
Enormous.
The scene of their victory says it all.
The burning wreckage of thousands of ships
with millions of passengers and a stadium's worth
of people buried under rocks to die a slow death.
Go the good guys.
I mean, you could apply that to the Death Star
in The New Hope, couldn't you?
I think so.
It's got to go somewhere.
Yeah.
Like it's the unfortunate elements of war to a degree.
The thing is, we don't even understand
how many people are on these things, where they came from.
Like the sequel trilogy is very vague about all of that.
See you masses in the morning.
I'm off to work.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
There's a classic Simpsons episode
that perfectly sums up the Snoke problem.
Lisa reads The Raven, and when the author opens his door
to find nothing, Bart says,
you know what would have been scarier than nothing?
Anything.
I mean...
But like, Bart's not right in that scenario.
Like the idea that you hear noises
and you're paranoid about something
and there's nothing there, that can work really well.
But if you're applying it to Snoke,
what's better than him having no backstory
would be any backstory.
I could agree with that.
But then we enter into the dangerous place
of giving him a backstory that's really retarded
or breaks something.
We're like, oh no, it would have been better
if you just left it alone.
You never know.
Reading the text was a dumb argument
considering there was a whole library on Coruscant.
It was reaching way too far.
Reading the text was a dumb argument
considering there was a whole library on Coruscant.
The sacred texts that I apparently
read, the sacred diary.
I'm not sure which part is the dumb argument.
Is this referring to when we were saying
the Rey reading the language in the Jedi text
seems unlikely?
I don't know.
I mean, yeah, I don't know.
Isn't Shakespeare actually in modern English?
I remember looking at middle and old English
like they're completely illegible.
They never do?
Is Shakespeare in modern English?
I don't know if that's what it's considered.
I would have to ask a scholar of some sort.
Efap Gang, what's your favourite retcon in the new trilogy?
Probably when Luke says a Jedi's weapon
deserves more respect.
Yeah.
That one's the most blatant.
And it's hard to spin it to
because some people have spun the
it was a mistake thing.
Yeah, TLJ's point was that Luke being there was a mistake.
But him saying that respect line,
that just feels like a direct slap.
I bet Mark Hamill enjoyed that.
I just can't believe that he would have turned up
for like a day to record all that.
Yeah, TLJ was basically Luke Skywalker's
return to the screen and that's what it was.
Because the other two films, he's not really in them.
Imagine being Mark and being so excited to finally play Luke again.
After all these years, all this excitement,
then you finally get there and they hand you the script
and you're like, yeah, you're a fucking piece of shit.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks for nothing.
Wait, C-3PO has an n-word switch?
Yeah, most droids have an n-word switch.
Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, if you check your toaster right now
and you'll probably find it if you look on the bottom.
Mm-hmm.
Hello, all my Ewoks, efap69,
and I get to look at women, a bonus for the toxic brood.
Absolutely.
That's a good bonus, I think.
I try to find the karth chart meme,
but it seems to have been deleted.
Oh, dear.
Why are you covering an old opinion
asked by a bunch of plebs who would more than likely
be ready to defame someone for a tweet from 10 years ago?
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, if those are the same people.
Like I said, if she was to say everything
in that video was irrelevant or she didn't follow it,
I'd be like, oh, okay.
But I don't think that's her position.
Like, if we made a point 10 years ago
and then someone said, do you still stand by this?
And I go, yeah, then I'm okay with them
providing counters to it.
Yeah.
It's fine with me.
Rags-ants are spiders.
Oh, they must've-
No, no, what?
Rags-ants are spiders.
I guess that's in reference to their ability
to be able to decipher things, to a degree.
I speak to the spiders.
Does it burt?
Does it burt?
Superman, a tale of the scrappy underdog.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
I think you can tell where we are now
with these superchats.
Scrappy underdog with training
equals Rocky 1 and 2.
It works.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, they refer to Ray as a scrappy underdog.
That's not right at all.
Rags in Babu Frick voice.
What would he say trying to fuck Ray?
Ah.
You say, let's see.
What would Babu Frick say he'd say?
He'd say, hey, nice booby.
I feel like he'd just make the normal sound with me.
But he'd be like his hands.
Would he be like, like, like he's grabbing boobies, you know,
have his fingers, say, like twirling around, you know?
I feel like Babu Frick is an animal, you know,
like he knows what's up.
I bet he's got a-
I bet he, when he gets an erection,
he just passes out, so fucking big.
He's just not enough blood to keep him conscious.
He doesn't remember any of his sexual escapades.
He's just out the whole time.
Also, Kotor is awesome.
What are these people you speak of besides-
What are these people you speak of besides the Kotor 2?
What this means?
Yeah.
Kylo Ren.
I guess if there's anyone who doesn't like Kotor,
this person disagrees.
Bert Nerni, because the top's name is before the bottoms.
Oh my god.
Never mind, I found the karth chart.
Oh, there you go.
Wait, so, wait, wait.
So, does that- is it Muller and Rags, or Rags and Muller?
I don't know.
I guess it's up to the viewer.
Oh my goodness.
It's perpetually both.
We're shroting his efap.
Shrot Rangers.
Did Jenny see any Star Wars movies other than the Disney trash,
where lack of understanding of this series is bordering on parody?
It is bordering on parody.
Perhaps it was parody.
And all of our criticisms are now irrelevant.
Get fucked.
Because that's how that works.
Rocky was a scrappy underdog and he trains.
Yeah, well-
No, scrappy means you just-
Different rules for Rey, okay?
If scrappy do were one punch man, perhaps underdog.
Underdog my ass.
It was just a really weird way to refer to Rey.
She scrappy.
Kylo Ren was a bigger underdog than Rey.
Uh, kind of, I guess.
He was still pretty powerful.
Uh, do the Foamies here know what a Foamy is?
Also, ha, you're a Foamy.
I don't know what a- a Poamy, maybe?
P-H-O-N-Y?
P-H-P-O-H-M-Y.
I think- I think they might have-
A Poamy.
Well, they'd misspell it three times, so I think it's on purpose.
Uh...
Oh, a pony is a...
Uh...
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know about that one.
Uh, maybe they haven't- just haven't-
Pony?
Pony?
Uh, Jenny only liked TLJ because she's got it for Kylo.
Mm-hmm.
Perhaps?
Someone said this was a troll video, now I believe.
Uh, it's very possible.
It's great you have women, but where are the trans folk?
Well, you know, uh, we're getting more and more progressive.
I mean, I identify as trans, so here I am.
There you go.
There I am.
Super progressive.
It's been me.
Also, who's hotter, Ahsoka or Padme?
Let me take a look.
I would vote Padme, personally.
But then, you know.
Yeah, definitely Padme.
Not even close, in fact.
Uh, Rags, have you played New Vegas fully?
I have played it fully.
If so, do you think the main story and DLCs are tightly written, and which is your favorite?
It's been, it's honestly, it has been so long since I've played the DLCs for that.
Like, we're going back to, like, Xbox days.
So I legit couldn't answer that.
I know that the main stories was pretty darn good.
So, you know, to take that as it is, I'm afraid.
Mm-hmm.
And then it follows up with, I think it's got the best dialogue interactions in any Fallout game.
Uh, probably New Vegas did, yeah.
Certainly not 76, certainly not 4.
New Vegas really is.
Mm, it's something.
Neo had more training scenes than Ray, and he literally could download Kung Fu.
Now I imagine the Jedi Temple just being a Wi-Fi hits a hotspot.
Yeah, that's actually a pretty fun comparison, that you can download skills in Matrix,
but you still need to, like, uh, apply them,
or almost, like, calibrate to the fact that that's happening, at least.
Just get used to it. Ray, on the other hand, is just like, boom, boom, boom, boom.
Yeah, you need to learn how to apply them.
It's almost like you download all the theoretical knowledge.
You have to learn how to put it into practice a bit.
Yeah.
Have you seen the Flash Kids video on Star Wars?
I have. It's very funny.
It is funny.
Hi-Rags.
Hello.
But I need to use the loo for just a moment, so I will be back.
No problemo.
I will be back.
Um, it says Hi-Rags and Mauler, so hello.
I guess, oh, and the women too.
Mm-hmm.
Don't forget about Trumpy Bear.
How could I?
Does Hollywood cast black actresses in Ginger roles because Ginger is an anagram for the n-wit?
I suppose we shall have to ask those on the inside with the no.
Anna, you sound tired. Take this and buy a McMuffin.
Hmm.
Hey, Yoshi's on board with that.
Is TLJ about not taking your space wizard meds?
Yeah, I'd say that's the theme. It's very clearly the theme.
What's with the middle-class white chicks wanting to date psychopaths?
Oh, like, because Rey is interested in Kylo.
I mean, there's probably some kind of trope there, but it really does kind of blow my mind that she has any interest in him.
I think that was why, when Major Lee brought it up, all of us were just like, what?
Like, why? In what way? And then, turns out, yeah.
I'm curious if it ever would have happened, if not for Reylo people.
Like, I feel like that might have influenced the decision, because it just doesn't feel like those two have anything going on, but what would I know?
So, people still think that you have to pay $2,000 for a PC and all other console arguments in various comment sections.
Rags, you ever gonna do, oh, I will hang on to this comment for him.
Can Ra guest on eFap 86, because he 86s people off roofs?
I don't, I don't, I don't know if that would make sense.
We'd have to wait until an eFap that spells out roof, that we're looking into the thousands at that point.
Maybe some leet speak sort of thing.
This is probably my favorite eFap, you got Aiden and Ana, two supremely awesome young ladies.
You should consider inviting Smudboy on, he's great at analysis.
We've had two or maybe even three episodes with Smudboy in the past, but yes, in the future, who knows what's to come?
Have you seen the SNL Kylo Ren undercover boss sketch? I know SNL, but it's actually funny.
I have seen that, it's amusing.
I think it was back when Adam Driver was more in favor of Disney Star Wars.
He seems to have really lost interest now.
Seems like he must have made some kind of deal to be out of any kind of promotional material too.
Like I've heard that he's like just as avoided the shit out of it.
Kind of amusing.
Do you guys like Bernie and Earth memes?
I will hang on to that for Rags as well, because I don't know anything about Bernie and Ert, but I'll see if Rags does.
To take his stupid remark seriously, Kylo had his chance to reject the army and power when he killed Snoke, but he didn't, so this has been funny.
Agreed, I suppose.
Is it wrong for me to think less of someone who thinks R.O.S. is the best Star Wars movie, or even good?
I don't want to say that it makes you dumb, but just explore what they like about it.
If it's a superficial level, then it probably doesn't tell you anything about their intelligence or whatever, they probably just don't take it that seriously.
But if they do take it seriously, and they say the thematic language of film is incredible in this movie, you might have caused to be like, what do you mean?
Finally caught a livestream, also that giant porg in the background is so creepy.
Yes. Kylo Ren is a bad knockoff of Zuko from Avatar Last Day Bender.
Well, it's certainly not a good knockoff of anything, is it? Because it's awful.
The worst argument I've ever heard IRL when I brought up the Death Star remains existing.
We already saw it in the trailer, so it makes sense somehow. This is a family member, kill my ass.
What, so because it's in the trailer, it makes sense it was in the movie?
Interesting logic, to say the least.
I'm off to work, and I hope to be gone so long the stream will have actually ended by the time I return.
See you massives on the replay.
See you there, Mike.
Alright, I have returned.
Hello.
Hello.
Do you guys like Bernie and Ert memes or something that I should have you answer?
I've seen some of them are good. Yeah, where they put like dark captions over them. Yeah, I like them.
And then, so people still think that you have to pay $2,000 for a PC and all other console arguments in various comment sections. Rags, are you ever going to do any other console PC videos for old times?
Oh, I might slap some on dog bites if I find a little, you know, a tweet here and there, something like that.
Because you still see them. They're not as prevalent as they used to be, because people are for the most part, wised up.
Or at least more so than, you know, how it used to be. But yeah, every once in a while I might.
Uh, the guard not flipping can be excused. It's not unreasonable to assume that they were loyal to Snoke personally.
Yeah, I think it's possible for the guards to turn on Kylo. It's just that I would assume it's more likely for them to be like, well, Snoke's dead now. So, so I guess you're the Supreme Leader.
But yeah, they were devoted to Snoke. They were devoted to the test tube, baby.
They need the Genesis device from Star Trek in Star Wars.
I don't know what the Genesis device is. Does that sound familiar to you, Rags?
Isn't that from a Star Trek?
Well, yeah, that's included in the question.
It's from the Wrath of... It... It, like, Terraform's planet, but there's a...
And so the planet will Wrath of Terraform.
We got about half of that.
You're, uh, cutting in and out.
Sorry.
He's okay.
I really wonder if Jenny will watch more than five minutes of this stream. I doubt it.
No, she won't.
Joker keeps winning, bitch.
For soy goy bugman Joker is the cinematic equivalent of Trump becoming president. For me, it's the gift that keeps on giving.
The gift?
I mean, yeah, it's pretty amusing. Like, the... It getting... They're so definitive about this.
I made a tweet about this, Rags, but you know the whole... It's all subjective as to how good a film is.
They are so quick to say that Joker does not deserve Oscars and it is much worse in screenplay, acting, editing, soundtrack.
And basically every element of filmmaking you can imagine, it's just much worse than all those others.
I just don't know. How could you possibly say that?
Yeah, for a bit weird, but all right.
How have you arrived at that conclusion?
As an adopted child whose biological father left, I would love to meet him, ask him a lot of questions.
Yeah, that's very straightforward.
That's why I asked everyone the question, because I think I would be too. I'd be like, I don't know.
And you do that thing, right? It happens in a lot of stories. The foster parent will be like, those people mean nothing to you, okay? They left you.
And that child will still be like, yeah, but...
They made me. Like, there's something, there's closure to be had.
Do I have other relatives out there?
Efap70 destroying Ben Shapiro's Trost review with facts and logic? Do it so you can debate him. Also, Hi Rags, kick J.
Hello. Yeah, we could cover Ben Shapiro's...
T.R.O.S.R.E.
Yeah, why not? Let's do it.
I don't know anything about Jenny's aside from these videos, but if I ever saw her IRL, I'd yell, your father was right about you, Jenny, and leave as she broke down.
Oh, no.
Yeah, but it's only family.
Yeah, that follows up with, quoted, parents don't really matter. Get the fuck out.
Yeah.
Does Star Wars Girl want a baby Yoda as a big as Jen's porg?
No, I wanna...
What's a widow one?
A widow one?
Widow one.
Like a widow, like the size of a...
Like your porg's big, like a big old porg.
I don't like porg's, but I want...
Baby Yoda the size of...
A Yoda.
Actual size?
Yes, to scale, the real baby Yoda.
Yeah, a real baby Yoda.
You gotta love that Thumb Wars has more coherent plot than the sequel trilogy.
It wouldn't surprise me. Most things do.
Like the fucking Battleship movie is probably gonna make a hell of a lot more sense than the Star Wars sequel trilogy.
If Hitler just popped into existence now, we'd all be asking how, why, and it wouldn't be explained by him saying the axis leads to abilities that some would consider unnatural.
I will give you that, though we don't actually have an equivalent of the Force in our world, so...
Other than like, if you call fate the Force or something.
Luke dominates the entire fight in Return of the Jedi, what the fuck?
He's actually pretty defensive as well. He starts out like the first portion of it, just not refusing to attack Vader.
Luke's first instinct was always help his family and friends.
He raced to save his uncle and aunt, raced to save Han and Leia, same for Vader, he'd save Ben.
No, he would slice Ben's head off while he slept.
What is with these people?
Don't you know, Luke? Geez.
It's like you're not even real Star Wars fans.
Luke in episode 6, I know there's still good in Vader, like in episode 7, this Ewok is having a bad dream.
Doesn't Jake Skywalker realize that every teenager suffers from anger or hatred at some point?
No, he thinks that it's literally Satan planning to kill everything ever, and so he has to kill him.
Satan!
No, Satan, stop it.
Having a vision of the future would be more convincing than simply reading his mind.
It would show that Luke still responds irrationally to visions.
I just think there's so much work that needs to be done to justify Luke turning on Ben.
You just have to do loads of shit.
Turning on Ben?
I can imagine Luke turning on Ben. That's how he knows he has the gay.
I mean, interpret away. I'm just talking about flashbacks.
Make an entire movie of flashbacks at this point.
In fact, make a trilogy of flashbacks and just never call them flashbacks, just have them be movies.
Wow, now it's confirmed that you guys are harassing this wahmen.
But anyways, guys, happy Efap69 to all you massive n-words.
Or n-woks.
A long man, but with women. Does Captain Marvel have blue periods?
Possibly. She bleeds in the... Does she bleed red blood or blue blood in the film?
Blue.
I think it's blue.
Also, Hi Rags, you handsome doggo.
Oh, hello.
Mustafar looks like a forest because of a tie-in VR game, where Vader uses a McMuffin to suck all life in order to resurrect Padme.
This is canon, by the way.
He actually resurrects Padme?
I'm sorry, say that one more time.
Apparently, Mustafar looks like a forest because of a tie-in VR game where Vader uses a McMuffin to suck all life.
In order to resurrect Padme.
That doesn't make sense, because Mustafar was a volcanic planet before Padme died.
I'm confused that I haven't heard about that if he actually resurrected Padme.
I'm assuming it didn't work or something, I don't know.
This video is ridiculous. I made a response video to it on my channel, The Digital Saloon.
I know it inside and out, laugh my ass off. Love you guys. Also, Hi Rags.
Hello?
Yeah, good stuff.
The Dark Side is a pathway to many abilities, such as influencing one to kill their relatives.
Ha ha ha ha ha, Palpatine.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Yeah, they could have gone with that.
The Dark Side is a pathway to many sexualities.
To many sexualities.
Billy Eilish is doing the Bond theme, laugh my ass off. Biggest monarch, mind control,
MK Ultra, Satanist, druggy, race mixing, propaganda hole for the Bond theme. Oh no no no.
That's quite a label.
Yeah, it's gonna be hard to fit on the front of the box.
Yeah.
Rey finds Kylo's porn stash. Kylo, you couldn't do that, the Strayd would kill you.
Rey, people keep saying that they know me. Creepy Sheev, do it.
I really hope someone repeats her line about nothing wrong with a good guy considering being evil to her when she complains about episode 9.
I mean, this is the thing, apparently a lot of her complaints in her Rise of Skywalker video are very much things that, if you were to flip them with TLJ, she from two years ago would be like, you're missing the point, or something like that.
Mm-hmm.
Luke sings Bill Wirtz. I just did a bad thing.
Things Bill Wirtz? Oh, Luke sings and then Bill Wirtz, I just did a bad thing. I don't know who Bill Wirtz is.
Gonna love this year's Oscars, what a way to end the decade. It'll be the last one ever to have any quality.
Next one will be about telling little girls to be Xanax-addicted, druggy, whores like Billy. Oh my goodness.
Ra's bringing it out tonight.
Who's Billy?
Billy Eilish, I assume.
Jenny's views artificially inflated. I can't imagine anyone actually wanting to watch the human personification of cold chicken noodle soup.
Some people just watch anything.
Like I said, maybe I should rewatch the Suicide Squad video, because I remember liking it.
And yeah, you know, like, everything appeals. Movie Bob has an audience. How, you know, at that point, I think you just have to accept that the world is strange.
It's an odd one.
You notice Kyle Ben has no lines besides Al after he becomes a Goodman? Adam Driver's performance is amazing, but the writers didn't earn any of it.
They could have done a lot more with Adam Driver. Same for all of the actors, as far as I can tell.
The Jedi philosophy is based in submission morality, namely submission to the Force. Sith philosophy is based in self-determinism to the nth degree.
Very well.
Can I get a seductive hello from Rags? I need it.
Hello?
Maybe we should do something more like hell. I wish I could do the hello there thing that Kenobi does, but maybe it's just best if it's simple. You just go up to someone and say hello.
Yeah, you know, some of the most normal behavior can be sexy in the right circumstances. Yeah, nice and calm and just keep your gaze on him.
Show him the goods.
It's been 30 years. I don't know. Literally every writer on these movies and the normies who pretend to know Star Wars and get a platform to enable them.
They really like the whole. It's been 30 years. I don't know. It's a common one. It's been 30 years. I don't know.
Force legs don't fail me now. Anakin episode three.
Oh, the girl next to Mauler sounds so cute. Oh, thank you.
Yeah, that would have actually been between. I don't know. Actually, I think it would have been it would have been Rags because they must have referring to the right of me, which flips them back to the other side. I'm sure that's how that works.
Jabba flies now. Jabba flies now. Jabba flies now. I mean, I'd watch it. I'd watch a whole movie about Jabba flying his way back in. I don't know why he's in space, but that's how it begins.
Please drop Star Wars videos. This is painful cover 1917.
I haven't seen it, but yeah, maybe I'm on board with a lot of people saying it's very good.
Yeah, I've heard it's good. I'm probably going to see it sometime this week with the folks. I think Fringy is seeing it. He's seen it. I guess by now.
Please. People who simp for Jenny don't deserve to vote. They deserve to have a military boot crush their windpipe. Oh, my.
Oh, that's what Mr. Ragh again with his his plans to dominate the world.
He's just one rooftop at a time.
Imagine Ben is force ghost going to layer like, Mom, you remember telling me, you remember telling me you'll go train with your uncle. He'll help you. Great idea, Mom.
She even have its body. Ray resists and contains his spirit. Kylo kills them both. Actual character moments, investment potential and stakes.
I mean, how about that? Like Kylo's face. The idea that he has to kill Ray in order to kill Palpatine or something like that.
That could have been something. Huh? Yeah.
Baby.
Baby Yoda is what round head wishes porgs would be.
Yeah, I think so.
I think honestly, he wanted porgs to be these cute things that everyone loves and it's just like, I'm annoying.
What we really needed was more massive e words.
Agreed.
I'm all just started a twitch channel this week. A lot more work than I expected, but lots of fun. Any advice on growing a channel. P.S. Hi Rags.
Hi.
Growing a twitch channel is really fucking hard.
Streaming topical games isn't even a way to necessarily do it because say, for example, Dark Souls 4 came out, you would be one of like 5000 streamers.
So it's like to really, I'm not the person to really advise you because I never actually got that far with a twitch. I think the maximum average audience I ever had was like 30 to 40 viewers.
It's tough.
It's tough.
I suppose you need like a gimmick.
There's lots of different things you can do, like speed running a game really well, or you maybe constantly, this is not good for your liver, but like constantly doing drug street vigils or something.
Or you do some kind of crazy, like you wear something insane.
I know a lot of people like dye their hair just to get the attractive sort of like, look at me, I'm a, I'm a, look at, look how eccentric I seem.
Like there's loads of different ways to try and get somewhere on Twitch. Obviously you can go the route of booby streamers. That's one, assuming you're a female.
I don't think, I'm actually, I think it's still like you can get banned on Twitch if you have your shirt off as a guy. I think that's still a thing.
But yeah, there's probably loads of advice videos you could try and look into, but I wouldn't really know how to do it myself.
But, run an entertaining stream as best you can, I suppose.
Have you seen Ryan Vermache Outpost review the supposed Trevorrow script? I would have loved to have seen that movie come out rather than The Rise of Trash.
Like I said, I, I assume it's better than Rise of Skywalker. I think it's safe to assume it would be.
Why are you talking to Trans Peter Billingsley?
Peter Billingsley? Who the fuck is Peter Billingsley?
Peter Billings...
I don't see it.
I don't see it.
I think it was mentioned earlier in either Bloodline or Aftermath that Leia did receive very little training, though I can't remember off the top of my head.
Well, I mean, if we were just going from the movies, there's nothing to indicate it. And I just, like I said, I find it funny that the writers disagree with each other on whether or not she had training.
But JJ's made it official now.
Yeah, that's why a lot of the issues with these movies, you wonder, like, is this like an in-universe thing or an out-of-universe thing?
For what now?
Just for like the training, not training. Why is this character doing this? Is that just an F you to this other guy? You know, Palpatine wasn't even a thought until beforehand, so can that be used as a reason?
Did you see the article saying that 1917 was irresponsibly nationalistic and blames Trumpism? Likewise, I'm seeing it tomorrow.
Yeah, I'm hearing good things about the movie and it's pissing off all of the crazy people. So it's like, oh, we might have a good movie on our hands, I guess.
Saw 1917 opening night then with my dad the next night, going right now with a friend to see the third time and dad wants to go again after this weekend. Watch 1917.
Oh, and all kinds of relations. Yeah. So this makes twenty dollars should be enough to start you on a nice bag of dick smaller. Okay.
Reylo is interracial marriage. Look at that schnoz. I understand.
Remember when Luke was hanging from a ceiling about to be eaten unless he got his lightsaber? He didn't get some adrenaline rush and do some crazy. He stayed calm and focused because that's how the force works.
I mean, I'm okay with it being tied. These people don't these people who make these movies have no fucking idea how the force works.
I don't I honestly think that when they go to write it, they're like, I've seen Empire and stuff. I don't need to watch him again. I remember him. I remember him well.
Shame they didn't have Ray get possessed. Can you imagine witnessing the epic brilliance of Daisy Ridley acting and speaking as she possessed Ray? Oh, my God. That would have been hilarious, actually.
She's trying like and you have the act of a Palpatine trying to explain to her how to do it, and she's just like not getting it.
You're doing it wrong. Hello, Kylo. And he's like, no, you got it.
Hi there, Kylo. How are you doing? She just does like something completely retarded. He's like, I don't see where you're getting that from. Hello there, Kylo.
And she's like more sexual. And he's like, can you not?
Or are you a bad boy?
But it would have been more entertaining. So I'm on board. Yeah, fuck it. Hello, more run crew. I'm still not caught up on a fab. So I'll be seeing this in about a week's time. Also high rags. What kind of doggo are you so I can get one?
I am a Shiba Inu.
Oh, I went over it in the discord. In short, Battle of Midway. That is the reason. I think that must have been responding to something we said at the time.
One more time. I went over it in the discord. In short, Battle of Midway. That is the reason. Ah, gotcha.
Talked about Star Wars for the first time with work friend. He said he likes sequel trilogy because they tell a story that's never been told and it makes sense with what they did with Luke and I wanted to smash my dick with a hammer.
I could actually feel my chromosomes quadrupling and my brain cells committing ceiling necklace.
It's like they've never told a story like this before. Yeah, I wonder if there's a reason for that.
What is your favorite Scorsese film?
I don't know.
Wall Street. Yeah, that's a very good. I don't like any of his other ones. You don't like any of the other ones. I hate Martin Scorsese.
Oh, let's see. Well, we said I don't like gangster movies. That's just not my genre. I like Shutter Island. I love the parties.
I've never seen the departed.
And I like King of Comedy. We'll be watching that soon.
See, you haven't seen that one yet.
Well, I've seen it. I'm going to show Rags it, though. Oh, my God. You didn't like Shark Tale.
You didn't make Shark Tale. He's in it. Yeah, that counts. No.
I don't know Shark Tale in like a decade or so.
How about. Oh, I like Cape Fear as well. That's him.
Yeah, Shutter Island is really good. I like Twitter Island. Yeah.
Don't hate on the Shutter Island.
Did you like Taxi Driver Rags?
No.
We'll probably save that for when we're talking about Ralph's video. It's just going to be funny because I would have liked it if it was better, though.
I was like really expecting so much more, you know.
Well, I would I would pursue you on that more, but I feel like we should probably save it for then because it'll be a better time to sort of go over the films in total once they once they're called upon as ripped off, you know.
Yeah.
Well, you already saw King of Comedy since you saw the Joker. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, hey.
Although really held first orders lives in high regard.
Yeah, what's up with that? What do you mean? Because she tried to evade them. Unfortunately, she got unlucky.
It's like, oh, this will just spook him. It won't actually.
I just like I said, like you have like C3POs on ship with her and she's like, look, they're all dead. This is already Chan C3PO. We're going to escape. They're not going to look after us. They're going to focus on them. We can go.
And C3PO is like, we shouldn't leave our friends behind. She's like, no, fuck up. But then she presses the button.
Just crash it.
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Thoughts on the Robocop trilogy. I love the first one. I'm not as much of a fan of the next two.
Yeah, I don't even know if I've seen the second two.
I don't remember the second two as much. I think I only saw them the once ages ago. So.
Quinton Ewoks are 0.01%.
Of the Galactic Society, yet make up 50% of the prison population.
Yeah, Quinton said it. I don't know. Also by Jenny's logic on Twitter. She's racist towards Boyega.
Fucking probably considering all the shit he's been given in every way, shape and form. It's been it's been weird. That whole thing.
That's an army officer. I can assure you that leaders plans are a little bit different.
You know what they'll do? They'll be like, not every single grunt and private and janitor knows every single element of all of the big plans. And you'll be like, yeah, that's a good thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know what they'll do? They'll be like, not every single grunt and private and janitor knows every single element of all of the big plans. And you'll be like, yeah, that's not what we said.
He's literally the Captain. Like, I think he would know. It really bugs me when she says that to him. She's like, he's like, what's the plan? Then she goes, what's the plan? Captain. Right? You were demoted. It's like, yeah, I'm going to go.
Yeah, I was demote. Yes, I was demoted for saving your life. You're having this because of me. She's like, that was the last official act that leg layer had or something like that. It's like, well, she also sent him to go and attack the ships again. I assume as the fucking fleet commander.
Because layer knows that he knows what he's doing. Like, hey, moolah. Hi, rags. Hello. Hi. What do you think is important before giving an opinion on a controversial theme on the internet? Just check your wording. Make sure that you are.
Make sure you word it very properly. It would be a shame if you had a really good argument, but you phrased it very poorly. So people didn't quite absorb it. Yeah, make sure your references are strong and thorough. Yeah. And don't antagonize people. I mean, people would say we do. Like, when I make my, when I give you an opinion on a controversial theme on the internet.
Just check your wording. Make sure that you make sure you word it very properly. It would be a shame if you had a really good argument, but you phrased it very poorly. So people didn't quite absorb it. Yeah, make sure your references are strong and thorough. Yeah. And don't antagonize people.
When I get my next video done after that, like when I do my Mandalorian video, I'm not saying if you like Mandalorian, you're a fucking idiot. Why? That works so well. Call them a dum dum. Yeah, you dumb dums if you like Mandalorian. No, no, no, no. No, you get you just gotta be just nice. For starters, you gotta be nice.
Hi, why are you humiliating this pure child? I cannot pity her anymore. No, no, I cannot pity her more. I cannot pity her even more. Does she have the giant pork spooner at night? It's possible. Not gonna say no. Yeah, I mean, it's not the worst thing you're probably gonna have here. You know what I'm saying?
You should Efap movies Star Wars Clone Wars. It's two hours and free on YouTube. Some of the best Star Wars content ever made takes place in between episodes two and three.
This show is better than the movie.
Oh, oh, maybe. Is that is that the general consensus or do people feel differently on that?
No, it's a general.
The radio war of the world's thing wasn't caused by people being dumb. It was caused by the radio shows forgetting to tell the listeners that it wasn't real.
I think they did only at the very beginning, but based on the time of when it began, a lot of people weren't able to catch the belittle of the beginning of the broadcast.
Did Jenny just have a mini stroke? No, no, apparently this is here operating at full percent. I don't know what to say. She just has opinions. All right.
Question for the whole cast. Thoughts on Rey accidentally shooting force lightning powerful enough to blow up a whole transport ship despite having zero dark side training and inherently lacking dark side traits.
Yeah, it makes fucking powerful, and she seems like bullshit to me.
There you go. I guess that's that's our definitive take. I'm going to subvert your expectation and I'm going to clap for this stunning and brave cast you've on tonight, especially rags.
Yeah, it was a risky move, but I felt like rags deserve to have a guest spot. That's just me. Yeah. Well, I'll I'm sure I'll do something one of these days. Get me kicked off.
Jenny, you realize that people latching onto this scene with themes and deep meaning like filthy leeches is why people hate this bit, right? This is a super chat, not more zone words. Hi rags.
Hello. Latching onto this scene with themes and deep meaning. Not sure which scene specifically that's referring to, but you know, it's all of them. All of them had deep, deep.
Themes. Are there any shallow themes that we all like? Is that a thing?
The theme that. Shallow themes. The themes are shallow. Like you failures the best teacher. You're like, yeah, we know. We all know. That's incredibly meaningful. You you bad man. You bad man. Good. The theme is be good. Okay.
Well, I mean, I would argue that's kind of what Joker's theme is, right? Be good to each other. Joker's theme is it's it's not it's shallow in the sense that it's like really, really basic. This would be nice to people who like, yeah. What would you what would you consider to be a deep theme ranks?
That the south shall rise again and overthrow the northern oppressors. A deep theme, though, it would probably be something along the lines of like it takes a position. It takes maybe a conqueror.
It's a controversial opinion in some kind of a moral.
I mean, my go to be like, what does it mean to be human would be one of them. Yeah, things that are really existential that make us self examine the kind of things that we are and what we do.
Maybe they could have, you know, like warning like themes about warnings.
You know, if you do this, this might happen. So careful stuff like that. It depends on it. But some stuff's really basic. It can be executed. Well, like the Joker seems are super, super simple.
Like you're not going to learn anything new watching Joker. It's just a really, really well executed simple thing. I think it could give people a bit of a perspective about how they may have treated mentally ill people previously.
Yeah, maybe, maybe. But this is it's more like it's not something they would go into being like disagreeing with, but it would like reinforce something that they, you know, already probably know that they should do.
I want a trilogy of broom boy growing up and becoming a badass bounty hunter, but he's actually really weak in the force and gets by via ingenuity.
That would be cool. Like, like a legit untrained or self taught guy like that who uses it to sort of accent.
Yeah, I'd be cool with very limited force use like he uses it in his every day.
It's not exact. Maybe he tries every once in a while. Like he has to flick a lever on the other side of the room, but he really like a jet. I could do it with no problem, but he has to like really focus to make it happen.
But that'd be really cool. Instead, we have a Jedi trained Vader, the same fucking Jedi that trained you, Luke. Yeah, well, that makes it evil, doesn't it?
I'm ready for the sequel Palpatine's new groove.
I'd be on board. I'm just saying. Former military. During big maneuvers, everybody gets full briefings of the plan. Chain of succession keeps the mission going. If something happens, a secret plan would have been clever if they had suspected a first order spire board, which would have been there. They're out for that.
But they didn't do that. At this point, Ray is basically a 40k or jizz bay.
Jizz bay?
Jizz bay?
Jizz on your what?
Jizz on your bay, apparently.
Jizz on your bay, boys.
When will the video where you guys watch the copyright strike Risky Memes with Wolf be uploaded? So the plan is to actually record that Saturday. That's the time we've got to do it.
I'm going to do two separate ones, one reading super chats that were all meant for him on that stream and the other doing copyright because to mix those up means that one may not get out much sooner than it could have.
I don't know what's going to happen when we do the copyright one. I'm going to do a lot of fiddling behind the scenes in terms of the whatevering it. I'm actually going to try and upload it just as is at first to see if all of the different claims like clash and deadlock each other and it just is available.
But I'm assuming it won't be. And so what I'll have to do is say, for example, we have a video where it plays like, I don't know, let's say a minute of a TV show.
Then I'll probably cut it to whatever our reactions to the thing is plus enough context to understand what we reacted to. That's probably how I'll do it. But yeah, we've got loads of copyrightisms to go through.
I don't know exactly when it'll be out, but it'll be recorded on Saturday is the best way to get rich is to capitalize on anti capitalism.
I mean, it's that's pretty funny. It's kind of deep. Actually, the anti capitalists are capitalizing on anti capitalism.
It's it's very clever. It's a good racket. I'd love to see you guys look at her take on TROS to since I've heard she hates it. I can't figure out why, though, since she loves TLJ.
I mean, I they're the first people I would think would hate the ROS, honestly. Yeah, the problem is they would use the same arguments that we would use to say that that they would use to say that the rise of Skywalker is good or that the last Jedi is good or the same arguments that we would ask them.
But I mean, I would genuinely like to see the answer of like, you know, Ray shouldn't be a Palpatine. I'd be like, well, couldn't I just argue that you're upset because your expectations were subverted?
Yeah. What do you have to say in response to that? I'm curious. And what is your response going to be that I couldn't have said to you about me getting subverted about Snoke, for example?
It would be very interesting to see that.
Failure isn't the only part of the theme. Learning from it is important, too. And just pointing out failures isn't enough to support the theme. I agree when half of them aren't even fucking failures anyway.
She does actually say in the video, I think that she just says the theme is failure, which, by the way, I was called out for when I mentioned that as a potential theme at some point.
But I was I remember being specific enough to mention Yoda. So I was like, of course, I'm talking about learning from it as well. But like, these people will be like, you don't even know what a theme is if you're just using a single word.
It's like, Jenny did it. She knows she's talking about. This is the thing. I'm very lenient with what people consider to be a theme. I know a lot of people are much more definitive. Like, it has to be an idea, a lesson or a message.
It can't just be a word, but I'm OK with it being a word or a color or a pattern. Just just tell me what you you are referring to. That's all I care about.
Theme is a bit of a broad word. So as long as you tell me what you mean, I don't mind. Ryan failed to make a good movie. Themes. Yeah, I like that.
You will hear one of these YouTubers content in the background for the rest of your life. Who do you pick? Jenny? No bullshit. Quinton? Movie Bob.
Movie Bob's out. I can't stand him. No bullshit's probably out, too.
I think by process of elimination, it might be Jenny. It might be.
Yeah, it might be.
I like how no bullshit and Movie Bob are essentially the two sides of a coin. Those two, you know, it just is.
But yeah, I would go with probably Jenny. She might just win by default. Yeah, it's not something to be proud of. I don't know.
My reward for when I finish my T.R.O.S. script will be getting to finally watch The Unbridled Rage. 32k words in and half the film to go. See you then.
That's from Meme Repository, by the way. Good stuff, man. Oh, good luck with the production. There's a lot to cover. Mm hmm.
Boo throws popcorn. Oh, that's that's where we're at where she said.
She said I can't remember what she said that made me say throws popcorn. There's a couple of things that in that.
Luke has vision of Ben killing everyone has a moment of weakness. Ben wakes up and kills everyone and Luke says Snoke has corrupted him. Was he wrong?
Well, I don't fucking know. This is the confusing thing about this. We're supposed to believe that Kylo killed a whole bunch of students because Luke threatened to kill him.
Doesn't seem like a through line, does it? Yeah, it's like, oh, yeah, well, because you did that, I'm going to kill all your students.
And he's hunting Luke in the sequel trilogy. And he failed to kill. He dropped some stuff on him and was like, ah, he's probably dead.
What? You're a lightsaber. Just chop through the wood, dude. Such a weird, weird, weird scene.
Women should aspire to be like Aiden, Anna and Jay Longbone role models awake.
Sort of agreeing with Rags so much. Sadly, Jen is the textbook definition of a normie so easy in her head, getting excited by explosions and people getting decapitated her facts.
Stuff happening. Exciting. Yeah, man, it's sucks. It sucks.
Be honest, man. If we don't have the money for a big super chat, would it be possible to send a private message for somebody to read?
I mean, just like through Discord and stuff. You can always try that. Obviously, we don't don't really set limits or anything on these things.
I think you get like a sentence question. If you can sort of fit it into that, then maybe it's a very complicated question. I don't know.
Listening to Jenny makes me realize there are people stupider than me. Also, I sink my maiden ship and sail my Mauler Commander ship. I have spoken.
Well, they're shipping me and Metal Commander. It's like they're ignoring you, Rags. What's that about?
I don't know. Someone made some good Episode 69 artifice. Oh, yeah, that's true. Yeah.
Hi, All and Rags. Hi. Yumkay there, Anna.
And Jebni, the Roberto Dottiers, taking them off one by one. Oh, I guess, yeah, Jenny's the new Robert in terms of killing people, sort of.
Do you think Crait being a salt planet is ruin Johnson rubbing a literal planet full of salt in the wounds of Star Wars fans that he attacked? I do.
It's certainly one way to interpret it.
Really love your stuff. Mauler's seen your DS2 videos about five times now. Same with your unbridled rages and praises. Also, hi, Rags.
Hello. I'm glad you enjoy them. They took some time to construct, but fuck DS2. It was worth it.
Okay, I'm late. Did Jebnickel's complain about the lack of porgs in the movie like Quinton did? And what was her take on the lack of Ewoks? We need to know.
We covered her TLJ video, not her Rise of Skywalker one, I'm afraid.
If you say something in Jenny's ear, it'll echo. I get it.
Yes.
Hiya, Mauler. Still looking forward to the next part of your TFA critique. It's on the way. Rags said August 2020, so I'm still on time for now.
Yeah, he's got some little elbow room.
Mauler, Rags, ladies, I was wondering what you think of The Mandalorian.
Bless you.
It's not good. It's extremely poorly written, very inconsistent characters who do insanely stupid things just so a plot can happen.
Yeah.
Not a good show at all. I find it odd that so many people are giving it a pass and saying it's good.
If it wasn't for Baby Yoda, no one knows the show. It's so stupid.
And we're planning on having a good old thorough eFap on that one to go through each of the episodes and talk about what it is we have problems with as well as talking about what we think is good as well.
Yeah, it's not like all bad, but it's a lot of bad.
If I legitimately eFap, eFap, may I join as a guest?
If you eFap, eFap?
As in if you stream responding to eFap? I mean, we don't have any formal way of becoming a guest because I feel like it would get flooded in whatever way I would create.
There's no cheat code to getting to be guest because I feel like we'd be fucked at that point.
Because if we said if you respond to eFap, you can become a guest on eFap, what we're doing at that point is encouraging everybody to just respond to eFap arbitrarily.
So I would probably say no, not a guarantee.
Oi, Mola, have you seen the response to a DS2 video from the channel called Modi? Quite interesting, maybe. Might make an interesting guest. I have not.
The problem is, even if she's joking, she makes all the same points as people genuinely trying to defend the movie in about the same way too.
Yeah, which is why it's useful either way. We can take a point seriously. If she's joking throughout, it doesn't really matter.
And yeah, there's plenty of people who do take it seriously.
And people say, oh, but she was joking. Then we'll just say, oh, okay, so she's wrong and unfunny.
And we can be like, okay, well, we weren't joking.
Oh, I know we were joking, so now what?
Oh, I guess, yeah, we could just say that. That also gets us out.
But we were joking. You can't say anything.
Rose and Ray both say Snake, but Leia in Empire calls Han a scruffy looking nerf herder. The insults fit the universe in OT is her point, I guess.
Then again, Han says, mentions hell in OT, so yeah, I don't think Snake is too far away from what we could assume.
Yeah, because they have womp rats.
Sure, yeah.
Yeah, it's just to convey information to the viewer. It's like why they all speak English.
That doesn't mean like other Romance languages exist and that there is a Roman Empire and Latin and stuff like that.
You're just going to have to accept the fact that just so that you can understand it, there's going to have to be some concessions made.
There was a book written by Isaac Nightfall. It was written by Isaac Asimov in Silverberg. It's a really good science fiction book.
And there's a preface on Nightfall where they say, for the sake of simplicity, for the sake of having you understand what's happening in the world, we'll use things like hands and feet.
And they'll refer to time in years, and we'll use terms of measurement and names of body parts and things that you're familiar with.
But there's not like a specific look of the creatures in this society or the civilization. Same thing with their plants, their animals, their stuff like that.
It's just done for pure simplicity. And this was barely a book. So if you kind of treat it like that, in a sense, go into any science fictiony sort of alternate universe and be like, yeah, imagine they're speaking, you know, just whatever in your head.
But you got to understand it.
Snakes could still weigh on ships and be introduced to other planets, like what happened with different pests here on Earth.
Correct. If galactic travel in Star Wars is as simple as us going down to, you know, traveling to go to different countries, then, well, there you go. It's not unusual at all.
Dayloggo just said, hey, baller, new Batwoman episode has vampires. Not kidding. Literal vampires.
Oh my God, I cannot wait, mauler.
So is that the Infinite Crisis episodes or is that Batwoman?
I don't know.
Let me check quick.
Batwoman.
I accidentally hit reviews. I just want to read some of these titles. Painful in every possible area. Okay, this was bad. It keeps getting worse. Sharknado is a masterpiece compared to this. How to kill a franchise. I keep wanting this show to improve.
I really wanted to like this. Brain Dead Deluxe. Cringe, cringe, cringe.
Um.
January.
This is episode 10.
Comes out January 19th.
You know what I mean?
So the vampire thing must be to do with Infinite Crisis, I guess.
Oh, that's a shame. I mean, is it really that far? I mean, she's a Batwoman, right? You know, maybe. Well, I mean, hopefully she's evolved in this in some way.
Um.
No step on Snick.
Jenny's patrons are people like Quinton.
Well, you know, explains a lot, I suppose.
Jenny is Rule 63, Patrick Willems.
What's Rule 63?
Is that one flipping, like, gender is it? Oh.
Yeah, I think Rule 63 is flipping genders.
Um.
Jenny's superpowers that she gets me to have Ra throw me off his rooftop.
I know I came in late, but my God, that ending was awful.
Yes.
Yeah, that did not end well. It was bad all the way up to the end.
One word describes Jevie Nichols, childish.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't necessarily think that that's much of a, I think she'd probably be okay with that to a degree.
Seems to be like kind of what she's sort of selling in a weird way.
Yeah, a childlike understanding of media. Yeah.
This is the room of someone who has stabbed at least one prostitute.
Oh, is this in reference to Hello Greedo now, possibly?
It looks awfully sterile.
Maybe he's hiding something.
Maybe he is.
Hi Rags, can I pet your luscious fear while you slopple my plopple knob next time I'm in Arkansas?
Absolutely.
Sexual harassment, I sure hope not. Also, hi, Moolah. Hello.
Not in this house.
Moolah, if I take off your mask, will you die?
I haven't tried, but I'm gonna go ahead and hope not, like I can survive for a certain amount of time, that sort of thing.
Okay, let me ask you this. Are you more concerned with not being seen without your mask than the Mandalorianist?
Um, no, I don't really care.
I droids are allowed to see it, surely.
Ah, you just reminded me how much I didn't want them to do that.
That would have been a nice thing to do way later, you know?
See, season one finale is like, eh.
I kind of hope they never did.
I mean, if you had to gun to your head, I'd probably push it to way later.
And I would have it be that the helmet was getting damaged in a way that you could maybe see part of his face first.
Yeah, like it's like an eye through the cracked visor or something like that.
Well, that reminds me of Phasma, and it's like, hmm.
Yeah, that reminds you of Zora. Yeah, but, eh.
Or maybe they do like the end of Halo Reach sort of thing, where the helmet comes off, but, you know.
Who knows?
Better than that. Anything's fucking better than that.
They did this shit.
No, but it'll be extremely painful, takes off mask, the rise of Skywalker is great.
Oh, I guess Hello Greedo does that?
Really appreciate you guys. G.F. broke up with me today. Sorry?
Does he? Does Greedo take off his mask?
As far as I know, he doesn't show his face at all.
Okay. I was like, not for this. Not for Rise of Skywalker.
Really appreciate you guys. G.F. broke up with me today, and you guys are a real source of joy for me. Also, Hi Rags.
Oh, hello. And don't worry about it, man. Like, really, don't worry about it.
You'll be fine.
You really will be fine. You will be A-okay, man.
I'm thinking about making a video series with two cartoon characters who represent views on an objective and an emotional standpoint. Left and right brain, if you will. What do you think?
A cartoon series? That might not be bad. Not a bad concept at all. Just make sure the writing is really solid, not that they're, I guess, consistent, but funny.
Like, they're both over the top, but they have to, they have like a love-hate relationship with each other. Kind of like how they do have in real life.
Not a bad idea.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hey, what?
Rags. When I said the barbecues are franks, I didn't mean the neighbors. Also, Hi Rigs, Hi Longman.
Hello. Hello.
Stop using the hard R on the N word. It's Knit Picker. Oh, Knit Picker. Knit Picker.
That's a term of endearment.
Thoughts on Eckhart's Ladder.
Oh, I, I don't really have any. I haven't really, I haven't really listened to the stuff. I've seen like thumbnails and everything. I just never clicked on them. They seem like they're pretty solid ideas.
Yeah, I don't know anything about it.
Scenes I love are gone, lol, the special edition.
Are they referring to which edition to get again? Like I said, you could probably find a pretty good, like, guide or description of which, which ones are which and which are the best online somewhere.
Definitely people who care a lot about that.
You have any plans to look at Linkara's TLJ Vid?
Not particularly. I think I saw like a clip. He like, Linkara's strange, but, but not really been tempted to check it out at all.
I know he did one on, did he do one on Rise of Skywalker? I can't remember. People were sending me something to do with Linkara at some point.
What a Jamaican massive.
Makes sense.
To help pay for lessons to play the hate piano. Oh, that's very kind.
I could watch the ST and probably still catch this getting read, or I could stay and watch this and pick this. So say something.
Oh, no, sorry. Watch this and I pick this. Should say something as if to imply that they didn't say anything when they should have.
I follow.
Mola, Godelb the hate piano. Also, I guess JJ Abrams dropped the hate piano on all those Ewoks and that's why they're not in TROS.
Well, there was, there was two.
Right at the end, just chilling out.
Also, Hi Wags, ooh woo.
Hello.
Tangible diversity.
That's better than any diversity is tangible diversity. Yeah, you could feel. Feel the diversity.
Pulse in your asshole.
Jebbie is so naive. Seriously, is she this sheltered on 400 dollar pork? She probably practices force kissing on. I may have answered my own question.
You know, maybe a pork is a good thing to practice that sort of thing on. I don't know. I've not tried. Rags, have you partaken in the pork?
I've done no pork, pork smooching.
Pork pounding, pork caressing. I've never been intimate with a pork.
They're living.
Tim, is it mola or mola? Oh, it's just mola, but I just, I liked capitalizing the elks. I thought it looked more interesting than not.
That's all. Nothing, nothing crazy about that.
That decision aged well.
This, this says angry ghost snake piano.
Oh.
In the form of emojis, by the way. Angry ghost snake piano? Yeah.
Could be a force ghost. Could be. Angry force ghost in the piano. The voice of the snake.
Jenny killed Aiden lol. Is Jenny female movie Bob? Could be. Not going to confirm anything yet.
Need more studying to be done. Stuckman is a shill. Condescending too.
Stuckman just doesn't have opinions. He just, he's like super milk toast. Milk toast was designed for him as a word in terms of film reviews.
And ever since he became the filmmaker man, he's, he's had those takes where he's like, you know, should appreciate these people because they tried.
And we wouldn't have anything without them in terms of film criticism. Yeah, fuck off.
We wouldn't have a like garbage either.
Molly, you can replace it with Godzilla. Replace what with Godzilla?
What is it that you refer? Did Star Wars go down the shitter with the door open Rags?
Did who? Star Wars. Did Star Wars go? Down the shitter with the door open.
Ah, the door is definitely open. We all got that happen.
It was not pleasant. More get shad on to talk about the medieval implicate. Oh yeah, I did read that out.
Actually, I take back that last super chat. Only the guy whose New Year's resolution is six million more has the strength to wield a hate piano.
That's the best way to do it. I hear hate pianos are the most effective weapons.
Falling pianos are very deadly from what I understand. Especially hateful ones.
Ah, is they falling with prejudice?
Cinema Roberto is Jack Porkins. Change my mind.
Porkins is a hero. Yeah. He's a good man. Bob is a terrible human being. He's just full of malice, anger.
Mola, when you get around to making your Unbridled Praise Joker video, please take a look at the YouTube video titled Director's Roundtable. Todd Phillips, Martin Scorsese, Greta Gerwig, Noah Baumbach.
That sounds interesting. I'm assuming they all have a chat about movies. I don't know.
Movies.
In it, you get to see Todd speak of the BS he had to deal with from the media and online. And since Scorsese is present, you get to hear his take on Joker being a rip off of better films. Interesting.
Well, Joker was better than his.
Oh, exactly.
It's not even close. Joker's way better than Taxi Driver. It is not close.
I'm curious how chat's going to feel about that. I'm curious to see the reaction.
Like really, watch Joker, then go back and rewatch Taxi Driver. Joker's so much better.
I'm not dying, but I might not be able to watch your content anymore for reasons. Could you do me a Make-A-Wish and release Crisis on Infinite Earth early?
I mean, the plan is to release it probably toward the end. What's the day? What is Tuesday now, right? Or Wednesday?
Probably like Friday? No, wait. Thursday and Friday will be releasing this stream on Moolah. So probably Sunday.
I'll put out part two. And then part three will be a couple of days after that. And then hopefully part four will be a couple of days after that.
And then part five. I mean, sort of relatively spacious, but that sort of thing. It should be soon.
Hey, guys. Love your stuff. Don't know if my previous Super Chat got read, but I'm working my way through all of the eFaps. I'm on 18. Been at it three weeks.
Oh, Megan. You're among others. There's lots of people climbing the eFap ladder trying to get to eFap number 69.
What happens now that Leia is dead? Who takes over politically when they couldn't last more than 30 years the first time?
I don't know, man. Chaos. It'll be you. That actually would make for a more interesting trilogy, by the way.
Poe takes his Resistance fleet to other planets and then tries to organize a new Republic, but imagine the problems you'd get.
Imagine all the chaos in this place because the First Order finally fucking gone.
It would be interesting. Nice times two. Hello, all my Ewoks. Also, hi, Raghu Frick.
Raghu Frick. Hello, hello, Raghu Frick.
Have you seen the Oral Naught Star Wars series? P.S. The Phantom Tism.
I have not. I don't know what that is.
Rags. Psalm 144.1.
And this is going to be a new thing. Songs. We'll paste that for you.
144. 1.
OK, let's see.
Praise be to the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war, my fingers for battle.
Hold on. Maybe they mean King James Version.
That's because that's what a lot of people use.
Is that a different result? Oh, yeah. Blessed be the Lord, my strength, who teachth my hands to war and fight the same thing.
Hey, love you guys. I listen when I'm waking and gets me through the day. Hope you get Louis Lavie on some day.
Yep, that's set to happen at some point.
Hi, Ragh. Hey.
Hey, guys. Me and a friend watched the Rise of Skywalker tonight. We laughed the whole way through.
Honestly, what a joke from Ray's Force lightning orgasm to Kylo Ren's pointless death.
I mean, at least, you know, hopefully you are getting some laughs out of it, right? That's, you know, that's something.
Can I give a bit of a giggle? Exactly how is Holdo's maneuver law breaking?
Because if that's possible, it fucks with our understanding of the universe's understanding of space battles.
That's an incredibly stupid question.
But if yeah, basically, if you can do that and you can destroy ships that are just exponentially many, many, many, many, many, many times over the size of your ship, then you think of the Death Star.
Think of the all of space combat would be based around this tactic. Everything would be based around accelerating things into each other using hyperspace.
Like it would be used for every it wouldn't just be you. And remember, it wouldn't just be used for ship on ship combat.
It would be for orbital bombardments. You just have things hyperspace into the planet.
Like it it ruins this.
This.
I seriously think Ryan Jay might be a sociopath. Imagine asking him about TFA immediately after he saw it. He thought space Hitler Hux was a clown and didn't think Snoke was important to the story.
He will. I think you should change that to he found Hux funny.
After everything you see Hux do in Force Awakens, saying he found him funny. It's like, hmm. Interesting. All right. OK.
What's everyone's favorite color?
I don't know. It's hard to say. I don't know if I have a favorite color. Mine are blues and purple's.
I like grays, browns.
I also like reds.
Grays, browns and greens. I think other ones.
There you go. Between me and Rags got a whole diverse rainbow.
Rogue One uses Star Destroyers that weren't created until ESP era. It should have used the first version of them from A New Hope.
OK.
I believe you that they would make that mistake, but I didn't. I had no clue. I had no clue.
Ray burying Anakin's lightsaber in the desert seam was foreshadowing the next sequel, The Tragedy of Darth Sand.
The Tragedy of Darth Sand? The grainy?
I mean, like I said, if you have that lady, if she saw Ray do that, I could totally see her waiting until Ray goes away and then she digs them up and sells them because holy shit, they'd be worth a lot of money.
Sell them to Unkar Plutt. He'd give you a hundred porsche, for sure.
He'll set you right on the way. And then he gives it to Maz Kanata. And then someone asks you, how did she get those? And she's like, that's a story for another time.
A story for another time? He's like, damn. And then the story we got on that other time was The Last Jedi.
Um.
Fuckbox.
Kylo kind of forgot his ship exploded. Oh, we love that logic. That's the best kind of logic.
Seeing how long it takes to get banned from movie circle, jerk, it shouldn't be that long. Mention that you you're a fan of a fab should be enough. Assuming you are.
Just say that, just see, just see what little you could say. Like, I actually kind of, it's like, I enjoy some of their commentary.
Or they make like a ridiculous call that you go, maybe this isn't fair, guys. And they go, what the fuck?
I feel that they are often taken out of content. Or maybe they aren't Nazis.
I think that's going too far already stepped over the limit there.
Just standin' up for it. That's Nazis on eFap.
Um. Unbridled mare prequels? I don't know about mare. I don't know. They don't, it's not like they need an unbridled video, you know?
Like, I don't mind just going straight into a critique for the prequels.
Uh. Life sucks, but eFap is good. Hashtag creamy sheave kick rags. Oh.
Creamy sheave, but I, I shall remain.
You shall remain.
You shall remain.
Uh. Captain Fazzy-Waggy. Eye rags and other Ewoks.
Hey.
Um. Not much point in a prequel rage. They're more meme now than movie.
They're more meme now than movie.
Uh. So, Morla, you like Monster Hunter? What are your favorite monsters in terms of design, combat, lore, etc.?
Um. I remember finding the Kezu to be, like, completely fucking creepy. The, especially the, um, the ecology video that you got with it in the, um, the PSP era, I guess.
If that could be considered an era. So, I guess that one, for lore, just, it's just the creep factor.
Um. I really like the Tigrex, just the way it looks, and I liked fighting it a lot.
That answers those questions. Though, I don't know enough about Monster Hunter to give more of a substantive answer about that.
I just really liked playing the game once upon a time, and I would get back into playing World if I had more free time.
Because man, is it good shit.
Um. Morla, do you recall a character in Shaun of the Dead who claims dogs can't look up?
I think he meant the Final Order cannot look up.
Yeah, probably. And it was, uh.
It was Big Al was the character. Um. And they reference him. I don't think he's actually in the film.
Dogs can look up.
Um. Episode 1 breaks lore with Qui-Gon. Yoda was supposed to be Qui-Gon's master. Also, whatever happened to your long-form Star Wars series.
Yoda was supposed to be Qui-Gon's master. Isn't that still applicable in Episode 1?
Isn't it?
Yeah, I don't know why that wouldn't be.
Um. I don't know. Maybe I'm missing the contradiction there. And whatever happened to the Star Wars series, they're all still coming.
Lots of work to make them be completed. Obviously, I was interrupted by a...
Game of Thrones was the big interruption, honestly.
Then there eyes of Skywalker.
Yeah. Can I send memes through Morla's Discord? How can I fix this? Oh, you can't send memes through my Discord.
Um. Twitter and the subreddit are the backups if the Discord doesn't work out.
Hello there. Have you seen the new Mobius trailer? If so, what did you think? Have you seen that, Rags?
I have. Looks interesting. Don't know what to think of it yet.
Um. Maybe a second trailer will get me to decide whether or not I'd want to see it. But, uh. Yeah, looks interesting.
Also, what did you think about the film Venom? Did you see that, Rags?
Venom? I don't think so. Um.
That was a goofy movie.
This was. Oh yeah, it's a 2018 one, though. I never saw it.
Okay, now that was 2018. Damn. Time travels. Um. And are you still there, by the way?
Well, I will save this for the future.
Uh. Nice. Does Rags get the beat the hell out of chat because everyone superchats him hello and that's sexual harassment?
Oh. Not at all. I don't mind. In fact, I highly encourage it.
He doesn't agree with that sort of mentality.
I'm not some barbarian.
Um. Just because it's come up a few times on eFap, try Googling title caps. Love you guys very hard and girthily.
Title caps.
Hmm? Oh, I see. So about the whole like, when do you capitalize?
Capitalize the first and last word? Capitalization nouns?
First and last word? Is that true?
Yes, you always capitalize the first and last word in a title.
Oh, in a title. For some reason, I just thought it was like normal sentence.
Yes.
Yeah. So you. Not like in's and these and of's.
Interesting. Yeah. Well, a lot of people do all caps and capitalizing each first letter as I have heard it can help with algorithm. I don't know if true.
You do not capitalize articles coordinating conjunctions and.
It says short fewer than five letters, but I don't know about that one.
And I don't think you and not you don't I don't think you capitalize prepositions either.
What the hell is this tweet?
Jokers. So this is just from somebody in general.
Joker stands, meaning Joker people who suit what a stand that mean again.
We asked that before, didn't we? And we found out it's like being a fan.
A stalker fan is a stand, I believe.
So like an aggressively fan fan.
The Joker stands thus far have wished mass suicide on film Twitter and attacked 16 year old girls.
And you expect me to respect that movie.
Well, the movies not related to the people what they did.
Just don't respect the people who do that.
Also, I'm going to press X to doubt on that one.
That I'm just reading. I was like, what the fuck?
What a weird. Yeah. Okay.
Anyway, Aladdin, phenomenal cosmic power. Itty bitty living.
Space. Rise of Skywalker. Phenomenal cosmic power.
But you can't look up.
I mean, looking up is, you know, you have to in that you have to be trained to look up.
Can't look up in our helmet, sir. I guess.
There is no last airbender movie.
The Earth King has invited me to Lake Lao guy.
Lao guy, I guess I am honored to accept his invitation.
Lao guy.
Joker is unpredictable because he thinks 50 steps ahead.
Kylo is unpredictable because he has no idea what the fuck he's doing.
Yeah, that's kind of how I see it anyway.
We know as much as Kylo does in pretty much every scene.
And so we're just like, where is my character going to go today?
I don't know.
Would you agree to the idea?
Harry Potter has a poorly written magic system with Luke Skywalker.
I don't know.
Would you agree to the idea?
Would you agree to the idea?
Harry Potter has a poorly written magic system with little to no rules to restrict it.
I wouldn't know.
I don't remember.
I can't I cannot remember enough about.
About like Harry Potter to to remember a lot of the finer details.
I'm sure many others could.
But I simply I simply cannot remember.
Can you guys play a hearts of iron four for Efap gaming?
I don't know.
No, it's super.
It's super complicated.
As far as I know, my friends play it sometime and there's a so there's so much going on.
I don't think it'd be good for us just jumping in to play it.
I think we're thinking of doing like Resident Evil five stuff like that.
And Halo.
Halo. Yeah.
Halo. Yeah.
Um.
And if we're still doing it, this to help buy MovieBob.com.
If not, just keep this money and have a great rest of your week.
Also, hello, Mueller.
Hello.
Hi, folks.
I still think Palpatine's return is ridiculous, but my interpretation was that he did die in Return of the Jedi and became the Sith equivalent of a force ghost and returned through Plagueis's teachings.
Still silly, but just my interpretation.
I don't know that it doesn't kind of just flatten that finale in episode six by having him return in any way.
If he like, if he had clones, I just at this point, like, no matter how someone tries to write it so that he comes back, I should be like, why are you doing this?
Yeah, it's like, why are you?
Why are you trying to make this work so much?
Why can't we just have another villain?
A new villain. Go for it.
Why couldn't you just not killed Snoke?
You had your villain right there.
Had your villain.
It would have been great, but you fucking killed him.
And now we've got shitty Kylo.
So where is Jeb Nichols in the Ephaptia list over like meme ability, I guess.
She's not very high because it's not she says stupid stuff, but it doesn't get me.
She's not funny.
She's not entertaining.
She's not silly.
Yeah, I'd say pretty low, pretty low.
Don't listen to the previous super chat.
Crusader Kings two is superior to hearts of iron four, as it allows you to marry your satanic horse chancellor, who is probably your sister.
Also high sexual harassment.
Hello.
Nice.
Ariel, I guess that was a suggestion.
Ravioli, ravioli, don't lewd the dragon lolly.
Um.
The only dragon one I remember talking about was what's your name?
Maleficent, right?
Maleficent, yeah.
She ain't no lolly, though.
Yeah, I don't think so.
Esmeralda from hunchback of Notre Dame.
Yep, we said it.
Did that.
Did that Dookie on a table guy make a review of TRS yet?
Probably not, because he doesn't know Spider-Man is coming out.
Oh, Brown table.
He made a video on Rise of Skywalker.
He said that it was like, it was confusing, I think.
I remember seeing it.
It wasn't as good as the CW.
Of course not.
Crisis on Infinite Earth is way better than the Rise of Skywalker.
I'll admit it's certainly more entertaining.
Gaston is a rapist confirmed.
Don't know if that's a thing or not.
Why is Ana the degenerate who gets you guys to talk about which cartoon characters you'd frick?
By the way, it's Raven from Teen Titans.
She's the big frick.
I don't like the dark, broody types.
I might make an exception for...
I don't even know.
I don't know who I would make the exception for.
You know who's not dark and broody?
Maybe Widowmaker?
I don't know.
Not sure.
Just not my go-to, that's for sure.
The Dawn is best Disney princess.
Ooh-woo, high rags.
Ooh-woo.
Undergreed, yes.
Build.
Dark magician girl from Yu-Gi-Oh!
Because she don't wear panties.
Are you sure?
Dark Lucy Dark Magician Girl.
This needs to be researched.
I remember the character.
Yeah, it doesn't look like she's wearing any of those panties.
I don't like her build, though.
She's got this weird kind of...
look to her if it's...
Well, I guess it depends on the drawing.
Some of them are pretty good.
A lot of statues over.
Those look better than...
Yeah, the card doesn't look all that.
Yeah.
Does anime count?
If so, cross-marion D. Greyman.
Cross-marion?
The Luke, is that a character?
Oh, okay.
Is that a guy or a girl?
I think that's a guy.
Interesting.
This do-it-for-you ranks.
Cross-marion.
No.
I'm afraid he has been declined.
Nope.
Clayton from Tarzan and Maid-Marion?
Maid-Marion?
Wow, that's a...
Going kawinky-dink, isn't it?
So Clayton from Tarzan is a no.
Maid-Marion?
Definitely, yes.
Kovu from Lion King 2?
No.
Melina from Mortal Kombat?
Oh, no, you don't want to go anywhere near that.
He's got a Tarkatan face.
You don't want to touch that.
That's the...
Melina.
He's the spidery face one, right?
Yeah.
She's got a creepy face.
Yeah, I can't say I'm a fan of the creepy spider face.
I want to clap Sandy's cheeks.
Oh, clap Sandy's cheeks.
Zyra from LK2?
Evil chicks.
Zyra?
Yeah, either Zyra or Zyra.
LK2.
What is that?
Oh!
Zyra is the...
Lion King 2.
Oh.
No, not Zyra.
No.
Hello, Longman, Rags and Ana.
Hope all is well.
Love the TROS rage and have my friends...
and have my friends have been drinking in the truth and loving it themselves.
Take care, Massives, always kick J.
He has been...
He was pre-kicked today.
Yeah, yeah.
We're very careful to pre-kick him.
Can't we pre-kick him today?
Last night, I legitimately had a dream about Eric Butz taking me out into a fancy Italian dinner,
and it had end credits.
EFAP memes are entering my subconscious now.
I can't escape this waking nightmare.
Did the owner of the Italian restaurant kick you both out for being gay?
That's how you'd know if EFAP is getting in there at all.
Shipping Rags and Roxanne from Goofy Movie.
Roxanne.
Oh, that was another one.
Yeah.
Harmalita Fox from Sly Cooper is my pick.
Oh, yeah.
Not a bad choice.
Yeah, I think that you would approve of Harmalita Fox.
Have you played the Sly games?
No, I'm just familiar with the character for reasons.
Oh, that makes sense.
Abolish Whales?
No.
Abolish Whales?
Keep Whales for now.
I'm there.
Oh, no.
Always when I'm working muesli.
Now I have to rewind to catch all of my EFAP with women TM.
Anyway, guys, Don bless and may the Jeb have mercy on you lot.
I know milk.
Thank you very much.
Sweet, sweet Jeb.
If the Lord of the Rings trilogy mirrored the new Star Wars trilogy, how would it look?
For starters, Sauron dies in two towers and Frodo throws away the ring.
Oh, there's so much you could do like Aragorn, you know, at the Black Gate.
The bad guy.
The mouth.
No, the.
Who would become the bad guy?
Would Boromir be like legit the bad guy?
Yeah, until he like decides not to be, I guess.
Decides he's good at the very end.
Morgoth comes up at the end of the three films.
Sauron's boss.
You should be like, oh, hello.
Morgoth.
I wonder what happened.
Yeah.
Morgoth is.
Let's see is the main antagonist of some really in.
Yeah.
And you would have, you know, in Aragorn is about to lead them in the fight in the Black
Gate.
He like draws his sword, makes a speech and then runs away.
And they're all like, oh, it's like what you think a man can't be like not courageous.
Oh, it's wrong with you people.
Man, Disney used to draw women in such a seductive way that your peen would shoot off Alice South Park.
Absolutely.
And then it says you.
You ruined it, I guess.
Well, they ruined it.
New York Post just made an article about the original script for Rise of Skywalker, and it is apparently very different.
Check it out.
I mean, I don't know why nobody's surprised about that.
It's going to be very different if it's a different writer, right?
Like I don't think it should be considered the original in that it was like the script that was edited.
Right.
It's just Colin Trevorrow's run through.
I'm surprised that got out, though.
You think that wouldn't be allowed to be released.
Yeah.
Who knows who had a copy.
And at this point, who knows over there who's ready to lead.
Did you massive hear that the Pokemon S.S.D.L.C.
is being set in the Isle of Man?
Lol, get poopy Don Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland.
I'm on board with them being set in the Isle of Wales, Isle of Man.
Sorry.
You couldn't fucking bring that character on their flag as a Pokemon.
Let's do it.
Make it the legendary Pokemon of the Isle of Man.
I don't like sand.
It's coarse and rough and irritating and it gets everywhere.
That's just that's that's a super chant.
Fair enough.
Any fappers watch the superior bootleg translated version of episode three,
Star Wars, the third gathers backstroke of the West.
We keep being told to watch that.
We've been told to watch that since like the first efap.
That's one of those long running.
Hi rags in occasion of efap 69.
How was your first time with a man?
So that one more time I rags in occasion of efap 69.
How was your first time with a man?
Oh, it went really well.
It went really, really well.
Just take it easy with your first, you know.
Don't want to spill too many of the deets, you know, but it went really well.
Don't kiss and tell, right, right?
Yeah, you got to keep some things to yourself.
It's weird.
She one had tweeted out that awful TYT video on Joker once and the other day
referred to Barb as Cinema Roberto.
Is she a fan?
Hmm.
I doubt it, but I mean, it'd be cool.
We'd have her on talk about steel wars and other stuff.
We find her find ourselves a cinema Roberto video to cover, you know.
Palpatine is like Dracula.
He always comes back.
No, I don't want that to be the case.
I don't not want this come on my back.
Yeah, that too.
Hello, all Ewoks.
Mola, have you checked out TFA art book?
It lists some of JJ's stupid such as underwater starships
and the Death Star surviving in its notes.
P.S. Hello, Rex.
Hello.
That doesn't surprise me.
You even say.
Efap card game.
Work been on hiatus because of holiday and job, but should soon be done
in a couple of weeks.
How should I send you the files?
I guess.
Email me.
How if
if
there's a website, I'm assuming the largest it could possibly be is probably like
it's no bigger than like 10 gig, right?
If it's all pictures.
So
you could use we transfer or send transfer and you can find my email with
my the business thing in the about page of my
my YouTube.
I try and get through my email, so I should spot it.
But worst case scenario, I should just spot it a little later than expected.
And do do do Efap more like a nap.
Good night, Anna.
Not the first D nap won't be there.
She might be able to beat even sleep in time.
We shall see.
Well, is there any hope for a clips channel so people can view the best takes
from the live stream?
Ooh.
I would probably have to pay somebody to go through and collect clips from Efap,
I suppose.
Yeah, because the sheer time it takes to watch them
because I know the DP and the H3 podcast, they both do that.
They have clips channels and it is kind of cool because you can just look at the
highlights, essentially all listed as one big collective set of videos.
I'll think about that.
I could definitely
do that.
I could have someone do it, I guess.
Efap, so long and hard, multiple women put to sleep.
Statistically.
What's worse, Game of Thrones Season 8 or TROS?
Oh, Game of Thrones Season 8 because it destroys everything and so many
characters while TROS is mainly its plot that's retarded and then
a couple of really significant blows.
Game of Thrones Season 8 is really bad.
Why is this the world we're in Rags where it's really hard to choose between
several things because they're all so hideously awful?
Well, we can always find new things for them to ruin.
You throw Captain Marvel in there and then you throw in like TLJ, fucking
Terminator Genesis or Dark Fate or whatever and just like, jeez guys, what the fuck?
Actually hard to pick which ones aren't the most terrible-est.
Howdy, I'm currently teaching myself coding and I'm thinking about making an
efap game.
I'm thinking a point and click game, kind of like Sam and Max, but I'm curious
what genres you would prefer slash like to see.
For a point and click game?
Or just in general, I guess.
We could answer both of those questions.
I could see a simple FPS being kind of funny, like all of the enemies are pretty
easy to design and like simple rooms and you can make the guns and bullets be
referential.
But then if you want to go like RPG-ish, just have lots of characters that could
be talked to and stuff, I don't know.
Yeah.
As for point and click, yeah, you can probably work with that.
Yeah, I think point and click is, yeah, I think there's definitely a market out
there for it.
A point and click, like, so he's asking like what settings would work.
Probably just what specifics?
The campaign is making a point and click for cyberpunk.
You can do anything from medieval to modern times to the future to just any
setting could work fine with point and click.
I don't think that point and click would exclude any kind of setting.
Well, they said more genre.
I don't know if they mean genres in like what kind of mechanics we're looking at
or actually like a horror adventure comedy.
I don't know.
Comedy is probably going to work the best, but yeah.
Go nuts.
See what you think works because I feel like it's, uh, eFap is very unrestricted
in terms of what it could be applied to.
It should work out.
When I heard you describe the nav tower, I got flashbacks to Game of Thrones
and thought the star destroyers were going to somehow work like the whites
and white walkers.
Uh, so I remember when we were reading the leaks was, was the nav tower thing
in the leaks.
Do you remember that?
The nav tower.
I can't remember if it was in the leaks or not.
I remember there being something we read that was like, I think it was something
like there was one main controlling star destroyer and if you destroy that,
you destroy them all.
I think that's what we read, or at least that sounds like what someone could
construe from the movie if they only saw bits of it or whatever.
But, uh, that's what we assumed.
We were like, there's, you have to have something that just nukes them all
because otherwise, how would this work?
And it's just really annoying.
Stakes wise.
What's up my Ewoks?
Hi Rags.
What do you think of Pathfinder 2e?
Pathfinder 2e, um,
uh,
all, I don't know about the additions of Pathfinder 2e.
I'm just aware of Pathfinder.
So if it's new, I, I guess it's new.
So I, um,
yeah, I'd have to look at it.
I don't know about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'd have to, I'd have to look at it.
I'd have to take a look, look at some, look at some stuff.
Uh, I'm later than a girl after prom night.
Did I miss the Efap harem bullying the Jeb girl?
Also, greetings and salutations, Ragarinos.
Greetings.
And yeah, we were, I think we were done at this point with that video
because it was references to Hello, Greedos.
We would have been well past it.
Well, it's time for me to go read.
I'm finally getting around to reading The Lord of the Rings 1-3.
I finished The Hobbit two days ago and I love it.
Thank you, Long Man and Rags, for the stream and I hope you get well soon.
Anna, uh, good night.
Good night.
Uh, For the Maidenshippers, Aiden an unbridled bride.
I understand.
Agatha Christie wrote the story behind Knives Out.
Oh my god.
Are you implying that he's a hack?
I think they are.
I agree.
Watch X play X, finish more videos, no sleep for you, man.
You, if you don't mind spoilers, crit drinker's vid on Witcher was spot on.
Also, hi Rags.
Hello.
Fair enough.
Um, yo Rags, Pogo got hacked and someone deleted all of his music videos.
Yeah, uh, I did see that.
Somebody mentioned it.
Um, that sucks.
I think you can get all that stuff back.
YouTube has the ability to get that stuff back.
But the thing is that one of the people who do the, they were doing a live stream on like Bitcoin stuff.
Uh, and that was the same thing that was being live streamed when a start.
He's got his channel hacked as well.
Someone was live streaming.
Uh, some, something for some Bitcoin exchange or purchasing thing.
Um, HR Gaga did the monster design for species.
Interesting.
Uh, I have Tourette's now I Jacob table slam with the line.
Really?
What'd you bring me?
I mean, of all the things you could say, that's, uh, probably pretty acceptable in most scenarios, I imagine.
In fact, it might get you to get people to start admitting some stuff that they didn't necessarily intend to be like, hey, what'd you bring me?
And they're like, you know what?
I think I should let you know about some things I brought that weren't necessarily for you.
It makes total sense.
If Riser Skywalker really wanted to submit my expectations, they should have had Rose land on the Death Star after Kylo was near death.
Um.
Why?
Where our hero would strangle Kylo for the remainder of the film, just a closeup of Rose veins bulging on her as she chokes the remainder of Kylo's life.
Kylo's frantic scratching at the gravel.
Wow.
Um, I mean, that would be a strange tune in the film, but we could test it out and see if people like it.
Would he forget he has the force again?
Yes.
Uh, Riser Skywalker would have been better if they had Vic Mignona as a legendary Jedi.
If they did, I would have forgiven everything in this movie.
I would frick Ahsoka and Padme's Babu slash HiRags.
No, hashtag HiRags.
Hi.
All right.
Uh, God, please cover Ralph the Movie Maker's garbage Joker video.
He made trash before, but this one takes the cake.
Oh, we will.
We will.
Me and Rags just, uh, we're doing some training ahead of time for that video.
Get it and get it.
See, because that's, that's the theme of Efap is that you come prepared.
You, um, do you like your practice, your research, and then you can nail that target.
Because we don't really think that you can just, you know, do it without any experience whatsoever or knowledge.
It's kind of silly, but we're getting there.
We're getting there close enough.
Now, I would say it's probably going to be the next Efap actually.
Right.
Rags don't make sense.
Yeah, I'd say so.
Efap coverage idea.
John from Many a True Nerd and his video Fallout 3 is better than you think.
That or Yoistun from Men of the West.
Uh, Fallout 3 is better than you think.
I mean, I would have to check out these videos.
I think it's pretty darn good, though.
Maybe it is better than I think, but I think pretty highly of it.
I have Thor Skywalker on for when you talk about the Mandalorian.
I don't know.
We've already got kind of a full cast for that with, and we're going to be on Australian times when we do it.
So, it's possible.
I'll have to look into the options.
Moira, I've been wondering, what is the, is your thoughts raggled?
Say that one more time.
Say that one more time.
Doesn't make any sense.
What is the is your thoughts raggled?
Like whatever I'm thinking about right now.
I am a little tired, I guess.
And if they're asking me what is the is.
Might have a snack later.
Yeah, I just, I don't have a good answer for this.
Not dying, but dedicate the eFap beetle borgs to me.
The beetle borgs.
EFAP beetle borgs.
Hopefully it'll happen one day.
2815, Hi Rags.
Ren in lights of Ren refers to their philosophy
to follow the will of the Ren,
the spiritual essence that emanates
from the blade of a red lightsaber.
Oh, the spiritual essence that flows
from the blade of a red lightsaber?
I guess, yeah.
But none of the Knights of Ren
have lightsabers apart from Kylo?
Well, you know.
You would think that if your whole Schmigegel
was based around red lightsaber blade energy,
you'd all have red lightsabers, but what?
That's fucking stupid.
Ra, how are you still alive?
The elevator of a building is a pathway to many abilities
some would consider unnatural.
Silence is his best.
Fair enough.
Did you saw that Linus from Linus Tech Tips
made a video where he talks about why
Trost ruined Star Wars for him?
Also, Hi Rags, Mauler, and Star Wars Girl.
Hi, and no, I did not know that.
That sounds interesting.
I might check it out.
Yeah, Linus ain't no dummy.
I can believe it.
Next stream, will you talk about boning toons again?
Oh, I don't know.
I think we covered it.
I think we covered it in this one.
Haven't played Dark Souls II,
Selma, or Resident Evil 7 yet.
Should I play them all first
or just skip DS2 and watch your series?
Don't I?
If you have Dark Souls II, give it a shot.
But if you get really put off pretty quick,
trust your instinct and then check out my series
because I could explain to you why it's fucking horrible.
But if you haven't played any of those three, play Selma.
Oh yeah, Selma is like one of the best games
I've ever played.
You should play Selma.
Then as for Resident Evil 7, yeah, go for it.
Might have a lot of fun.
Yeah, the first four hours are pretty good.
Whatever happened to Professor Tospot?
Any plans to have him on again?
We'd love to.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm not sure if he's on Discord anymore.
I did send him some messages recently.
I say recently, like in the past month
and I haven't had any responses,
but I will try and get ahold of him
because we'd happily have him back.
Absolutely.
New fan here.
I watched your entire Rise of Skywalker stream yesterday
at work and I loved it.
Thank you for putting in such a herculean amount of work
for our amusement.
Oh, we like to be thorough here.
That was a lot to cover.
Yeah, we went seed by seed with six people
or is it seven people?
Like just looking to discover vital problems.
It was a great stream though.
It was, oof.
It was fun, but I mean, it's depressing
and fun at the same time.
So, but that's Star Wars.
Have y'all seen the Babadook?
And what were thine thoughts?
I didn't really like the Babadook that much.
I wanted to.
Didn't see it.
Care for modern spooky movies?
I mean, I'm not against modern spooky movies,
but I didn't really like that one.
And I've kind of, I haven't seen it in so long now
that I've kind of forgotten why I didn't enjoy it that much.
So I'd have to see it again to give you reasons.
Praise our savior, the dawn and salutations, dish towel.
Dish towel.
And he means like rags.
Oh, that makes sense.
After reading the COIW comics,
Crisis on Infinite Worlds, I guess,
the CW can burn for what they did.
It's something that really needed
the Infinity War treatment.
They were never gonna get that.
That was never gonna happen.
It's the CW.
Press F for Pogo.
Channel got hacked by Bitcoin scammers
and all of his music videos were deleted.
I know rags uses songs in his videos.
Yeah, obviously not good, but don't worry.
I think that he'll be able to get everything taken care of.
Rags, N.A. Miata or N.B. Miata, also high wags.
North America, I assume it's an N.A. Miata.
I assume you mean, let me Google real quick.
N.A. N.B.
I don't know what these mean.
Mark two.
Are these like generations?
Because it's the second gen, it's a 2004,
but I've never heard of N.A. and N.B.
Yeah, I don't, images, like maybe, N.A. versus,
okay, let's take a look, N.A. versus,
oh yeah, it's an N.B., it's a 2004 Mazda Speed.
So it's its own special little thing, yeah.
And if you had to choose?
All right, I didn't know that.
I didn't know that that's what,
I just thought they were just gens,
like gen one, gen two, and if I had to choose,
I've only had the one, so.
I mean, when I was a valet,
I drove the N, I guess they'd be NCs,
and they drove really well,
and I've driven the N.A.s as well,
but I own an N.B.
It's a very fine car.
I've been toying around of getting an N.A.
selling the Mazda Speed.
I mean, I really like it, but I eventually,
I kind of get the itch to just drive something new
because I've had it for a while,
and get some car that somebody's had,
and maybe they've done something with it.
You know, they're super cheap,
so if something goes wrong with it,
it's no big deal at all.
Just a fun little car to spin around,
and a lot of people do some cool stuff to them,
but I'm not sure yet.
Still thinking about it,
but I haven't driven the N.D. ones,
but both the A.B.s and Cs have been really fun to drive,
really responsive, really cool cars.
Anna should be a permanent member of EFAP,
or at least every EFAP dealing with Star Wars,
also High Major Lee and Rags.
Hello.
I like to think that all of our guests are a part of EFAP
in a way, in a gorgeous, wonderful, happy way,
and they arrive when they are needed,
when the world calls out.
It's very emotional.
It's a whole universe rule thing, makes sense.
Let it be known to gas mask and doggo alike,
the only way to save Star Wars is Keanu Reven, or Revan.
Give the Old Republic the movie it deserves.
I don't know why everyone pushes for this.
It's Disney.
Yeah, they're gonna ruin it, people.
Like they're going to ruin it.
Whatever they do, they're gonna fuck it up.
Push for them to make their own brand new thing, right?
Yeah, so at least if it's terrible,
it's like at least it's over there doing its own thing.
Like have you not learned?
Do you think Disney's just gonna all of a sudden
make the great movies that you wanted them to
after all of their terrible ones?
We gave them the OT.
They made sequels to that.
They fucked everything.
Why wouldn't they fuck up everything else?
Also High Rags.
Hello.
Been a fan since the beginning,
just not a subscribed fan until now.
Mola, any plans to play Death Stranding, mate?
Not particularly.
I think I'm gonna let Rags play it
and you can tell me what it was like.
I just don't.
I'm so unappealed by the everything I've seen from it.
I'm just like, uh.
Maybe one day in some willed,
where I have some free time and I just have it,
it could happen.
Jenny is the source of the Jeb meme.
That should bump her up the tier list
at least a little bit.
Yeah, but was it because of her or was it?
Well.
But was it because of her
or was it because of something else?
How did.
Didn't our rules state that
even if they weren't directly responsible,
it still counts?
Think.
Well, maybe it depends.
If we did the episode while watching her stream,
but the Jeb meme happened
because we were just talking
about something unrelated to her,
she doesn't get credit.
I mean, I'm not sure we gave that benefit to the others.
I'd have to watch our meme stream again
for science reasons.
Did we?
It's important.
Yeah, I think we just, we made it simple.
We were like, if it happened during their coverage,
then it goes to them.
But that was definitely, it came from Wolf.
It was Wolf like had a profile picture
and that's where Jeb came from.
But she was obviously,
she was present at the time
and so Jeb became a part of her lore.
Do, do, do.
Keep Jay.
Oh my God, keep Jay.
This.
I'm fucking G, Lydia from Beetlejuice.
Oh, I'm fucking Lydia from Beetlejuice.
Okay.
Lydia from Beetlejuice.
No.
See, I can't remember who Lydia is.
Oh, it's Winona Ryder's character.
Yeah, no.
Send these foul beasts into the abyss.
Good Super Chat.
Smudboy, ever gonna come back?
Yes.
That is a surprising amount of requests this stream.
Maybe it's to do with covering Danny or something?
I don't know.
If the rumors of JJ's relationship with LF are true,
how salty do you think he'll be
when recording the TROS director's commentary?
What if he doesn't?
Oh, I hope he does.
Those audio commentaries give you a whole bunch of insight.
It's quite entertaining at times.
I'm late to the chat.
What can we expect, Sky Crit?
When can we expect Sky Crit?
Oh, Rise of Skywalker critique, I guess.
Baby.
Oh, no promises on that one.
No promises.
I will give you information as useful information arrives,
but for now, no idea.
Invite Razorfist.
He is up for it.
Contact him.
Yeah?
Yeah, I'll give it a shot.
I watched Joker with my dad and he really loved it.
Did you watch it three times though?
Were you bored?
Were you even bored?
And that pushes me over to the stream labs.
We have caught up with the Super Chats for this stream racks.
Oh, my God.
Boop, boop, boop, boop.
We already squabbled with each other in the Navy.
Port Watch versus Starboard Watch.
Damn, that Port Watch always turning up late
and my ship has about 200 souls.
Now imagine that on a Star Destroyer.
That I think would actually be a more interesting film.
Seeing how a Star Destroyer operates,
like that's the point we're at.
Or I would just rather watch a bunch of dudes
who work for the Empire operating their dailies.
Yeah, I mean, like, how does it work?
How do the logistics of this thing run?
I'm fascinated by logistics.
Snakes on a different plane.
Panspermia in Star Wars confirmed.
Oh, I get it.
I get it.
Rags confirmed for wanting butt puppies.
What?
Apparently you want butt puppies.
I don't know what that means.
Tossing a coin to my Ewoks.
YouTube-tisms didn't notify me you were alive
until six hours in.
Glad I took Rags' advice
and was pooping with the door open,
or I might've missed it entirely.
No, always happy to help.
You know me.
Hey, Mola, could you clarify your take on Westworld?
I remember you saying it was really bad,
but just wanting to clarification.
Do you mean all of it or just season two?
Thanks.
I love the pilot.
And then I like a couple of the episodes going forward.
I believe episode seven fucks everything up.
And then the rest of the episodes
keep fucking everything up.
And it makes me hate season one.
And hatred usually comes from me because of potential.
And I was willing to fall in love
and fucking adore that show.
And then they ruined everything.
If I ever did a series on that,
I would actually love to watch that with you Rags,
just to see you have a similar reaction
because of how fucking annoying they waste everything.
Yeah, like they start out so strong
and then they ruin everything.
Mola, have you or Rags ever seen either dark on Netflix
or Mr. Robot?
I have not seen either of those things.
I'm springy has seen Mr. Robot
and he thinks of it very highly, so that's close.
But yeah, I haven't,
I think I watched one or two episodes of Mr. Robot
at some point and I just didn't carry on.
I've really got nothing interesting to say about it,
unfortunately.
And I don't know what dark is as well.
And would highly recommend it if you haven't seen it.
Yeah, fair enough.
Perhaps one day in the future.
One day in the future, if you ever see us.
They could have easily fixed TLJ.
Everything that happened in TFA and TLJ
maybe could have been a dream or a vision that Luke had.
I would have laughed,
but I actually would have been pragmatic about it
once getting out of the cinema.
I'd be like, they really didn't have a choice
if they wanted to fix all of this.
Like if they-
Yeah, they were in a-
We had to take that route.
They were between a rock and a hard place, man.
Imagine, just imagine what Ryan would have felt
if JG just went, nope, all the dream, moving on.
Wolf started the Jeb jokes,
but you guys kept forgetting Jenny's last name,
but you dubbed her Jeb Nichols.
That's what elevated Jeb from a joke to a meme.
Ah, Jeb Nichols.
Except I used it like Nichols, the five cent pieces.
Like the coins, Jeb Nichols.
I just shortened down her surname
from Nicholson to Nichols.
Money in the bank, tell me what you think.
Real talk, props to a remarkable Republican
jumping into the lion's den with Wolf
being openly hostile and more laughing nonstop
at everything he said.
And I think he might've actually learned something from Shad.
I think so. Absolutely.
Yeah, he did more than many will do.
And I don't know, I'd be happy to have him back.
Yeah, it would be interesting to have him and Shad back
to have a, maybe when I'm not drunk off my ass,
because everything he was saying
was making me laugh so much.
I was having fun, but I mean, it's not useful
when there's a conversation trying to be rude.
Opinions on the Epic Store now that some time has passed.
I haven't seen what it actually has now.
Do they have a shopping cart yet?
Did they manage to nail that element of design?
That really complicated revolutionary online shopping tool.
For their sake, I hope they nailed it.
But yeah, I would hope it's better by now
than it was fucking more like a year ago plus.
Mola, my dengue is Pixar's 15th movie, what should I do?
Did they pay you for the rights?
I mean, if you agreed to it,
can you really complain at this point?
I don't know, how would you feel
about your dengue being a whole movie, Ranks?
My dengue is being a whole movie?
Well, let's see, if I was gonna make a movie
about my opinion, I assume that's what we mean by dengue.
Dengue just does make it seem hardy.
Well, it would be about, gosh, I don't know.
I'd have to, it was like if the penis,
my own penis was gonna be the fucking point of a film,
I'd wanna think about what the plot was gonna be.
Would my penis go through, I was about to say growth,
but like character development,
like is it, which does it like, you know,
men or women better, does it preference for positions?
Does it think that it wants something
and then it learns that maybe it wasn't all,
it was cracked up to be all along?
I don't know, not certain, not certain.
Maybe it's some sort of existential
inner monologue of my penis
while it's just pounding some thick booty.
Would it be Morgan Freeman or Danny DeVito?
Who would you prefer?
Morgan Freeman for this one.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Yeah, I don't know, I have to think about it.
Sorry, but I gotta respond to that
Fallout 3 is better than you think message.
That video is awful and full of
misrepresentations all around.
Is it?
So Fallout 3, is it better than we think?
Or is it better than we think?
So I know that H-Bomberguy,
it's like a partial response to H-Bomberguy that video.
So what we should do in our free time rags,
when we're just chilling out doing our thing,
is check out H-Bomberguy's critique, if you will,
of Fallout 3, see what you think of it.
Because I just, I don't remember enough
about Fallout 3 to be.
People didn't like that one at all.
Fallout 3?
Yeah, no, his video on it.
Let's have a look at the ratio.
What did people actually think?
Fallout 3, H-Bomberguy.
It's at 63%, quite a hit.
But it'd be interesting to check it out
to see if he's being a flumpled ingus in it or not.
And then we could check out the response video, right?
And then see what we think.
Part one, okay, I know I'm late,
but I have to say this,
Wolf was my favorite YouTuber.
His video, How Bad Writing Can Make Good Writers,
is one of the best videos I've ever seen.
I know he was struggling with depression,
and if he ever made another video again,
I would, if he never made another video again,
I would accept that.
That being said, him removing all of his videos
was idiotic, it was just what he wanted.
And yeah, that video was very good.
It makes a very good point.
A way to discover how best to do some things
is to discover all the ways not to do them.
Identify the clear pitfalls and be like,
yeah, don't do this thing.
And it can push you along to better things,
if you would agree.
The ST gives me mixed feelings.
They're bad, but it makes for good efap content, so.
Yeah, you take the good with the bad.
That's just, it's just gotta be how you roll through life.
To gas mask and doggo.
Okay, then I wanna see an original show
related to Star Wars universe.
No Jedi, no Sith, but with the same reference
that the old Republic showed in their gameplay trailers.
Well, you could still,
the old Republic showed in the gameplay trailers.
I can't remember that footage specifically.
That doesn't make sense,
because in the Knights of the Old Republic playthrough,
that's all it is, is Jedi and Sith fighting each other.
Like, would this be, like, are we talking about-
So why would they wanna show,
based on that it's the Old Republic,
with no Jedi and no Sith,
but that's exactly what Kotor is?
Well, would we be talking about
a part of the Star Wars universe
that's far away from the current galaxy,
where the Force still exists,
but it's understanding and it's,
like, maybe lightsabers aren't even a thing
that's been invented here,
and their focus isn't even on lightsabers or melee combat.
It's based on, it's a pure Force thing,
and they have telekinetic battles
and create illusions in each other's heads
or things of that nature to have their fights.
You can introduce new factions.
You wouldn't have to have good and bad aspects
of the Force as they understand it.
You could have different schools
that appreciate it in different ways.
It doesn't have to be a good mule sort of dichotomy.
It could be just two different ways of exploring the Force.
There's all sorts of stuff you could do with it.
All sorts of stuff you could do with it.
I mean, once you get away from the details
of the current Star Wars galaxy,
who knows what you could do with the concept of the Force
and stuff like that.
You could do a lot with a little.
It was inside out, by the way,
lazy man bad in reference to the 15th movie being My Dangus.
What do you mean?
That doesn't sound healthy at all.
The 15th movie about your Dangus
is called Inside Out.
Oh, I know it's referencing Pixar,
but that just, all of that, no.
Inside Out, Inside Out, Inside Out, Inside Out.
His channel was an important part in debunking
this widespread idea on YouTube
that objective criticism should not apply in media.
I think you guys were being weak
by not criticizing his decision in the slightest.
Of course, I could be wrong.
I don't know what goes on behind the scenes.
Yeah, you could be wrong.
You have absolutely no idea what we.
Is this guy talking about?
I have private conversations, so.
He's presumed what me and Rags may or may not have said
to Wolf.
It's like, hmm.
Yeah, you have no idea what Wolf is.
Oh, shut the fuck up, dude.
That's such bullshit.
Yeah, there's nothing else really to say about that.
The Walking Dead would be perfect for eFap games.
Two is awful.
The Telltale ones?
Well, that's the thing with Telltale,
is that the Telltale Walking Dead one,
that was the fluke.
Yeah, because I think I played the first one
for like a couple of hours.
I didn't find it that interesting,
but nobody has a good opinion of Telltale at this point.
I mean, people were upset that they went down.
That was the odd one.
That was the one that stood out.
That's what got him everything.
But if you look into Telltale,
and the way that they're basically survived,
is that they would,
it's almost like they supercharged their company.
They would accept money for doing work
that they wouldn't be able to do,
to do IP work,
and they'd just go from one to the next,
to the one to the next,
super quick, over and over and over.
But their work itself was just mediocre.
There were so many just dull, boring, awful things,
and they just didn't make money.
They didn't move units.
They couldn't keep up the quality of that one thing
that got them on the map.
Telltale is, I mean,
are they still alive?
I don't think they are.
I thought they went under it.
I think they broke apart a year or two ago.
Telltale names.
They were bailed out maybe, I don't know.
Let's see.
Defunct as of October 11th, 2011.
Yeah, there's a couple of videos out there
that talk about Telltale,
and how they survived as long as they did.
But they made a good season of Walking Dead,
and that was kind of it.
Because remember, they did Wolf Among Us.
They did Batman.
They did Game of Thrones.
They did the Borderlands ones.
They did the Minecraft one.
By the way, you need to watch Broteam's streams on that.
That shit is fucking hilarious.
I streamed that game.
Fuck, dude.
It was one of the most successful streams I did on Twitch,
because loads of people wanted to see it.
I don't know why.
It was so bad.
That game is awful.
It's, geez, Telltale has a terrible reputation now,
and it is, they deserved it.
And yeah, so they stopped making games in 2011?
Like, fucking hell, that was ages ago.
Not 2011, I think.
It wasn't that late.
I thought that's what you said.
Was it?
No, they went and defunct October 11th of 2018.
I think they were founded in 2014, I think.
But they would do this thing.
Yeah, they did LEGO.
I think they did LEGO stuff, too.
But what they did was they would buy licenses and get licenses,
and they would get paid to do it through whatever
deal that they had.
And so they would make money from putting out
the stuff for the license.
And they kind of subsisted on licensing fees and money
and stuff like that.
And the sales just couldn't make it up.
But that's just how they kind of carried on.
It was really weird.
And I think that there was a big,
there was a whole bunch of issues with Telltale
and people who worked there and lawsuits.
Let me go to the Wikipedia here in majority studio closure.
I guess they relaunched under LCG Entertainment,
but I'm not so sure about that.
Yeah, they got rid of 90% of their employees in one day.
It was in September, I think.
This was the month before they officially closed.
But they fired 90% of the company.
They kept a little core team to just keep it alive
for almost legal reasons, just company obligations and stuff.
And to finish some final projects, it was a mess.
But yeah, if you could read up what happened at Telltale,
it is a sad story, that company.
Who will be the first opposition,
Revenge of the Sith debate efap?
The debate's been my favorite efaps.
Oh, hey, someone who's a fan of the debate efaps.
That's rare.
Really?
Because I thought they were, I mean.
I don't know, a lot of people seem to know them.
I enjoy them.
I just I don't see a lot of positive discussion
about them outside of the not so great debate
one being like a huge meme.
Yeah, because that was like a meme.
But it's maybe it's because the guests we have
aren't like Yezen wasn't good at all.
And Major Lee was terrible.
It's hard to think like what metrics you
go by like entertainment value versus progress made.
You know what I mean?
And maybe it's because like so many of them
just they just shrivel up when they actually come on
and they go back.
Yeah, the one was crazy.
He spent so long trying to convince us
that her walking into fire was reason enough for her
to be considered crazy and thus reason
enough for her to kill children.
Yeah, there were all the.
Yeah, it's just dumb.
Any time you guys presented a point,
he's like, well, I don't like to get into that stuff.
And it's like it's going to prove your point wrong.
That was really weird how he wouldn't concede.
It was strange.
Really, my main point is just that because someone is
depressed doesn't mean that should not protect them
from all criticism when they're acting moronically.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Oh, my God.
You don't have a soul.
What'd they say?
Well, it's the guy who said about the being weak thing.
He said my main point is just because someone's depressed
shouldn't protect them from all criticism
when they're acting moronically.
Oh, my God.
Like seriously.
Fucking prick.
What the hell is wrong with these?
There are there are plenty of valid reasons
to want to remove your own videos from YouTube.
And to be honest, I think you should be able to.
But obviously, that's unrealistic because of how everything works.
They're his.
They belong to him.
So, yeah.
And also, yeah, you have no idea.
And you have you have no clue.
Yeah, like I don't know how I was to explain this.
It's like this is even said.
He doesn't want to have a YouTube channel.
He doesn't want to this anymore.
And he doesn't like the work that he put out,
regardless of how other people respond.
Like respect his judgment and what he wants.
Now he wants to live his life.
Anyway.
Kylo, does it hurt me?
Me. Yes, it fucking hurts.
I don't. Oh, wait, does it hurt?
Did Kylo just asking that in general?
I don't know what what scene this would be from, though.
It's many suggestions.
So do you please make an e-fap meme with the girl power moment
from Endgame with the women from this stream and ending in rags?
Ending in rags?
Oh, my goodness.
Would rags be the last of the you be Captain Marvel rags, I think.
That's us.
I mean, I'm sorry, but it also means you're the most powerful one.
So it's not so bad.
Well, yeah, well, I figure I figure
if I had Captain Marvel's powers, I'd make a better movie.
No, didn't you hear what Kevin Vaguey said?
That when Scarlet Witch is like brought to that breaking point,
she's more powerful than everyone.
Yeah. But didn't he say previously that Captain Marvel was supposed to be?
I could have sworn there was a comment about her being the most powerful
or leader of the Avengers.
I don't know. But I like he did.
But then like just recently he said this about Scarlet Witch.
I like the idea that
Scarlet Witch is the most powerful, but we've seen what Captain Marvel can do.
Like, yeah, like what they decided to do
with her is just like, what are you doing?
Stop. Stop.
Going overboard.
Um, you guys went live when my work shift started.
You're still live as I go to bed.
Legends.
As per usual.
Hi, rags.
Hello. Gears five is ass.
You ever played Gears three?
I did play Gears three.
Also, Gears five is not ass.
Oh, my God. Gears three.
I like Gears three better. That's for certain.
But five is an ass.
I think it's campaign is good. I
very, very gorgeous game runs pretty well.
I enjoy the combat of it.
I enjoy the weapons in it.
Not a fan of not really fan of horde mode.
I don't think escape mode is really anything interesting.
Um, I don't know about the versus, though, so I can't speak to it.
But I think the issue with it was that it's a 60 dollar game
and the campaign is really the only thing it's good.
But it's the only thing really worth buying it for.
Now I got to play throughs out of it.
Yeah.
If you can get it on the Xbox game pass,
it's definitely worth a co-op play through with with a buddy.
Someone in Chassa, the debates would be great
if only more that would moderate them better.
Did you see what happened with the hazard?
Like he didn't let me talk for like a handful of minutes.
If you want me to just ban him or something like that's a solution.
That's just not the point at that point.
As for moderation, most of the time I'm a participant.
I don't know if you agree with this rags, but like typically we don't.
We're not looking for a moderator.
Yeah, we kind of like the whole we don't want it to get like official levels,
but we want to be able to have to where it's like casual between people.
You know, you shouldn't require a moderator or the idea of like being like
some guy is just here to go like you have had your allotted two minutes
and now a response is like, oh, my God.
Sometimes people need more time.
Yeah, I know, because sometimes people need longer to respond.
Sometimes people don't need as much.
Yeah. And like fucking hell, like I said,
if I was to moderate the one, you would have been booted.
Like this, but I didn't want to boot him
because I just makes the whole thing pointless.
So I just have to sit there and be interrupted.
It's like, yeah, this is fun.
But, you know, it's you do what you can.
As far as I'm concerned, like the all of participants
are supposed to have some degree of responsibility
for trying to moderate the conversation in a efficient manner.
And we did try. We always try.
You remarkable Republican debate was the best.
I agree. I mean, sure, it's great.
The Batman ones are good.
Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead two and three are bad.
I wouldn't know. I've not played any of them completely.
No disrespect. And I love you guys.
And what you do, all I'm saying is that the quality of the trailers
from the Old Republic show so much more reverence for Star Wars
than anything the most recent trilogy could have conjured.
No, I'll believe that. Yeah, it sounds true to me.
I'll just believe that by default.
The yazzen debate over Game of Thrones is crazy,
but the majorly debate over TLJ was my favorite.
Ifap, I would contribute a mortgage payment
to see you debate Jeb Nichols over TLJ.
Also, hi, Anna. Feel better.
No, thank you.
Um, you're mad at debating, Jeb.
That would cry. She would cry.
We'd be like, no, every one of your points is fucking terrible.
Here's why. And that actually now catches us up
to all of the things from this stream, which means we are now into overflow.
Um, I hate to be the bearer of of of long news,
but the overflow is probably the size of about
this conservatively, like two and a half ifaps, I think.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
So, yeah, we'll just we'll run out the clock, I suppose,
and deal as many as we can.
I think me and Rags going to try and do a mini stream
to catch up with a bunch of these at some point in this week, maybe.
Mm hmm. Um, but we will catch up to them eventually.
It's going to happen. We will.
And there's a lot of people who say like they haven't read it.
Oh, we've got another.
Three. Three hours and 20 minutes, three hours and 30 minutes.
Yeah, I know a lot of people last that long.
Oh, stay for as long as you want to.
Welcome to leave.
Whenever you wish.
Yeah, I know a lot of people were like, has he read out the buzz from blah, blah, blah?
And it's like they've all been saved.
If I've missed anything.
That would be my bad, but I don't think I have.
I've just got them all in this big file.
So I'm just going to start reading them out.
And if you haven't had yours gotten to, hopefully it will be eventually.
Yeah, we'll get there at some point.
I'm certain of it.
But before I start, just a few more from this stream.
One more rags thoughts on God of Gears of War judgment.
I think the campaign is incredibly underrated.
I have not played it.
That is one that I did not get.
Didn't play that one.
Oh, I don't think I played judgment or four.
I've heard a lot of things about four.
I haven't played it.
Remember, if that didn't kill it, set BAM.
And I think this is when we had the this is the second portion
of the New Year's Eve super chats.
That's where we're at with this selection, I think anyway.
What if we stop you from getting to the overflow?
We're already on it.
They live again.
See, this is when we came back.
Which apparently the solution, if ever it happens, that my internet is working,
but we're booted off YouTube is to literally just restart.
Not much we can do about it, which is annoying,
but it just means that if apps will be split into parts rather than episodes
or maybe episodes, depending on how far we're going with it or whatever.
Loving the salt coming from the media over Joker getting 11 Oscar nominations.
Yeah, I find it pretty amusing.
Seems a bit excessive, but people are taking it very seriously.
Like the Oscars mean fucking what?
The Oscars decide what is definitively understood to be good or bad, I guess.
Yeah, it's yeah.
It's just going to get some appreciation for good things, you know.
Can you has a point?
Well, I'm I'm I'm just going to do it, Bob, between reading any new ones
that come out in this stream and then overflow on.
So Scarlett, which got mad, you guys were doubting her power levels
and killed the old stream.
Oh, my God, I mean, we were doubting them.
I didn't. I said we said she was powerful. Yeah.
If app is dead, long live if app route at
restart the stream and screencap it screencap the stream.
I can still watch the rest of that stream.
Maybe someone can record it.
Oh, they're talking about how I could rescue the previous one.
And that's when I learned about the whole.
You can go into the live studio and there's a button that says like
and stream or whatever.
That should work just fine in future.
No stream is ever really gone.
Also, you know what?
I think I might go for a quick toilet break rags.
Would you like to entertain people while I'm gone?
I would love to entertain people while you're gone to a little
little flippity floppity here.
Oh, right. So.
Got a little bit of tea left. I have to get a.
He comes back, I'll get a refill.
Oh, man, you're going for a while talking about Star Wars.
It's kind of nice to have the chance to talk about the last Jedi
for a little bit like an old like an old friend.
So it brought us all together.
We were strangers before this.
And now thanks to Star Wars being terrible, at least.
At least I know it made all of this happen.
And maybe we all we all owe Ryan Johnson something for making
he's helping sort of make the proto-EFAPs happen
for getting us all to know each other.
Also, hello, chat. Hello, hello.
Hello, Marcos and Zach and Chris and Southward.
Terry and.
Where can I find the remarkable Republican debate?
It is at the end of
episode 66.
Let me check here.
If app if app.
We more.
Oh, it pops right up.
Let's see. I think that's.
50, no.
It was it wasn't too long ago.
It was like 60.
Was it 66?
No, I don't think so.
Let me let me double check. I need to.
I forget which one it was.
Someone let me know which one the remarkable Republican debate was at
because I went back and I listened to some of it, but I forget.
I'll check on Mueller again.
Rags and radio voice mode.
Well, I moved up a little.
I skewed it up.
Honest. I honestly, I am tired.
We've been going for quite a while.
We've been going for.
It's almost it's almost tomorrow already going for over 10 hours.
Stop typing rags.
It always lights up of my chat.
Ah, rags bring anomaly ink on maybe some other time, maybe some other time.
Rags seeing patter modern major general.
Right. Hellblade game is actually great.
Yeah, man, Hellblade is a fantastic looking game.
It's got a nice small scale that the development team can handle.
Gorgeous lighting, great textures.
I think Melina Jurgens is the the actress who plays Sinoa.
Fantastic job by her.
The sound works really well in that game, too.
I think that was my game of the year for when it came out 2018, I think.
But it had some stiff competition from Divinity Original Sin 2.
I love Divinity.
But I don't know, Hellblade just did it right for me, just had it right for me.
Any thoughts on Killing Floor 2 monetization changes, paid weapon DLCs?
I'm fine with them.
Killing Floor 2 has given, let's see, let me double check
and make sure when it came out, because Killing Floor 2 has given
an incredible amount of free content for years.
It's it's always supported community maps and stuff like that.
Custom servers.
Tripwire has been really good with the community in those aspects.
Let me go to Killing Floor 2 here.
Go to the store page.
Currently rated at 90 percent positive.
Yeah, let's see.
I have 561 hours in Killing Floor 2.
Love that game.
Looks like it came out in.
Yeah, this game came out in November of 2016.
So this game is just over three years old
and it's been giving seasonal events, free weapons, free this, free that.
And it's been going and it's all hasn't cost a dime.
So I'm fine after three and a half years.
They want to add some stuff for
for paying and it isn't it isn't competitive.
It is cooperative based.
I will have some qualms if they decide to do this versus thing
that I think they were talking about doing and having it
having those weapons be available, but I don't think it'll be too major.
But I think they've certainly I think they've certainly earned it.
Let's see.
Rags, do you think Mahler is pooping with the door open?
No, he doesn't seem like the type.
He doesn't seem like the type.
I know I would never, never poop with the door open.
Remarkable Republican debate was in the farewell to Wolf Stream.
That is correct.
That's at the end of the farewell to Wolf Stream.
Yeah, he was talking with Shad and myself and Mahler and Wolf.
I think that is a number.
Sixty five.
Sixty five.
Because we were happy to split them into two in order to reach sixty six.
Yes. Sixty five. It is.
Also, hello, let's see.
Team Taka is in the chat.
Have you played Greedfall?
I have not played Greedfall.
It's on my kind of my like secondary list.
What's the best cod starting from the OG to now?
I have four Call of Duty four is the best, followed by.
Black Ops.
I don't know about three.
Call of Duty two is pretty good. Hmm.
If you're going by total stuff, it gets mixed, mixed up and messy.
Like the new Modern Warfare, the campaign is pretty good, kind of short.
But it is the multiplayer is kind of bad.
I don't like the multiplayer at all.
I play the Tales of series.
Rags, does Mahler's poop hurt?
I couldn't tell you.
That sounds like a question for him.
Anomaly is asking if I watched The Witcher.
No, I haven't watched The Witcher.
One of these days we'll get around to watching him.
Yeah, we've got so much on the on the agenda.
Mahler has returned.
What I will do is I'm going to top off this drink for a bit
so we can round this puppy off.
Yes, ma'am.
Ooh, but doo, boo, boo.
I keep seeing Efab mentioned on different websites all the time,
constantly bringing in new fans.
The toxic brood grows every day.
Really? Is it like positive mentions?
Because I always imagine that like Efab.
They don't allow opinions.
And monsters, you say,
deep in the crevices of dark and fiery bum bums is where they live.
But, you know, could be.
Rags, say one thing you liked about TFA, TLJ and Tronce.
All right, I will get him to answer that when he comes back.
Save the stream, Mahler, we need to keep the law.
It was rescued successfully.
Efab used quick revive, but lost the perks.
Sad face.
If the perks refers to keeping the first half, we were able to do it.
TFA Part 1, 634 to 647.
Soma versus Amnesia Part 7.
I think that one was answered in this stream, actually.
Excellent.
Father Smith, warrior, mother, maiden,
crone stranger. I am hers.
She is mine from this day until the end of my days.
I know that's a reference to Game of Thrones,
but I'm not sure what it was referencing other than that.
That's the marriage, Val.
Yeah, I know. I'm saying I don't know what it was referencing, like.
You know, why did that come up? I don't know.
Maybe we're talking about Game of Thrones at the time.
That's the problem. A lot of the contacts will be lost for these.
But that's the best we can do.
Sorry for the many chats, but I don't usually catch these live.
So number one, Mahler, can you say this?
It's for the meme line on the next Super Chat.
Oh, these may have been mixed up. I hope not, though.
Well, I hope I haven't.
I might have lost the what that was referring to
because these don't always get put down in order, unfortunately.
Because the next one just says old stream is unavailable.
Rip. And then the next one says happy New Year
in regards to your last, the protagonist being offered an army by the antagonist
and accepting with the mentality of using it to complete their mission
is literally the main plot of Bionicle Web of Shadows.
Oh, we got a what? Yeah.
We got to keep up with the Bionicle.
Yeah. Just in Curator Page.
No, no rags does Mahler's poop hurt when he throws it at you.
I would throw poop at a dog first off.
Yeah, that's fucked up.
That's double cruelty.
Mahler and Rags, I have Tourette's and Asperger.
I love Joker's Laugh more than the Predators portrayal.
Also, I have a tick where I say what you'd bring me, including table smack.
Thanks for that.
Oh, what's favorite video you've done on your channel?
I really like doing the Bully Hunters one,
which was the first one I used with Vegas after moving from Movie Maker.
I like the brown table one.
I did. That was a good one.
There's all kinds, all kinds of ones I liked.
Well, Rags is bisexual.
Call me me. Call me meal.
I got to Google that one, my dude.
One of the new two chats said Rags.
Say one thing you liked about TFA, TLJ and TROS.
I thought that the visual effects were wonderful.
I really, really that they certainly looked very, very,
very expensive.
They looked like they were very professionally produced.
And the I get the shots on many of the shots look fantastic.
It's only a shame that all of that money and time and effort and design
went into just a shitty, shitty truth.
Would you be could you give an individual positive to the three of them
that refers to anything to do with writing or no?
To writing?
Yeah.
C3PO was funny and rise of Skywalker.
In the last Jedi.
Hey, guys, I think I'm going to head out.
Sure. Is AOK?
Go get your sleeps in your rests and whatnot.
Get your healing on.
Yeah, flew it up.
Give. Well, thanks for having me on and have a great.
Got me to promote your channel instead of because I don't know
if you're able to, if you want to push.
It's just that Star Wars girl.
And I talked about Star Wars.
Star Wars and other things.
Check it out, folks.
We'll see. I know you've been a very good sport hanging out
despite the deliberate.
What's the word I'm looking for?
Debilitating. Is that the one debilitating?
Yeah, the curse of the longest.
But yeah, thanks for thanks for coming on with us.
And it was always nice to have you feel better and we'll catch you around.
Thank you. Bye, guys. Bye bye.
What did you spot rags?
What was the shocking thing?
The Academy. Congratulations to the visual effect nominees.
They are Avengers Endgame, The Irishman, The Lion King,
1917 and The Rise of Skywalker.
No Alita battle angel on here.
Godzilla, which is interesting.
But man, there is a lot of people in the comments wondering where Alita is.
There is a lot.
But the King of the Monsters was a terrible movie.
However, the visual. Yeah, yeah. Incredibly good.
Um.
While I don't think the Oscars decide what is the best, I'm very sad to see no A-24 films.
What do you think about them excluding their great films?
What exactly does that refer to?
American Independent Entertainment Company founded on August 20 by those people.
Oh, The Lighthouse, Midsummer.
Those two. I've I've heard a lot of mixed and bad things about Midsummer.
Pretty cool drinker fucking hates it.
Like he finds it frustrating.
The Lighthouse, though, I'm definitely going to watch that.
I constantly hear good things about the lighthouse.
Me and you know, Rags, you and I will check that one out.
I'm sure of it.
I would like to. Yeah, I'd like to give it a look. Let's do it.
We shall discover the truth of this.
Nonsense. Add it to the list.
Throw it on the pile.
Flippity floppity rags as is is given Star Wars.
Gill that cocks like a clock slappity.
There you go.
As to substitute a word because YouTube filters are bad.
Oh, if any hoppity cloppity, cockity slappity.
Clock slappity, apparently.
This time, yeah, it's when it's time for cock, it's clock.
Does draining the one I'd snake venom into my grandpa's in give me the apex homo?
Um. It's a complicated question, honestly.
Draining the one I see.
Oh, who is the most attractive Disney prince?
Prince, um.
I'd have to be reminded of all of them.
Let's see which ones qualify as princes.
Let me get.
Um. Let me get a list.
All right, Prince Florian from Snow White and the Seven Dwarves. Nah.
Prince Charming from Cinderella.
No, he's a faggot.
Prince Philip from Sleeping Beauty.
We're getting there.
Prince Elric, or sorry, Prince Eric from Little Mermaid.
Prince Adam, I'd say he's up there so long as he stays a beast.
Aladdin, he's up there.
As is John Smith.
John Smith is one of the higher rankings.
Li Shang, also up there.
Eugene Fitzbert is from Tangled, and he's up there, too.
Yeah, I don't give a shit about Christophe.
Oh, Prince Dimitri from Anastasia.
He's on the list, but I don't know.
He's all right.
And I guess.
Peter Starlord, Jason Quill.
Oh, that I mean, that's not Starlord.
And that's Starlord like as in.
Yeah, Starlord.
Huh? All right.
No, he's on the list.
We have unofficial princes.
Peter Pan, I think he's too young.
I think he's a kid.
So we're not going to go there.
Taran from the Black Cauldron.
If you haven't seen Taran, I'm sorry.
If you haven't seen the Black Cauldron, you should.
It's great.
Fucking bad guy in Black Cauldron.
It's like horrifying.
The Ornd King.
Oh, I know, man.
I think Taran's too young.
Don't matter. Hercules is up there.
Sure. Tarzan.
Yeah, boy. I bet he's savage.
Kuzco nice funny, but Milo from Atlantis.
No, Jim from Treasure Planet.
He's handsome.
I don't know if he's keen eye from Brother Bear.
Yeah, I'd say so.
Prince Edward from Enchanted.
Second male protagonist from Enchanted.
OK, so Prince Edward is a second male protagonist.
Although he is technically a legitimate Disney prince,
he is not an official one,
probably because of the fact that Disney would pay copyrights
to the actor James Marston.
Oh.
You know, we have Prince James from the male protagonist of Sofia, the first
once upon a princess.
I have no idea who that is.
So have you have we got a choice?
The number one.
Let's see, I think I'm going to go with.
It might be.
It might be Eugene Fitzbert or Lee Shang or John Smith.
Maybe between John, I'm going to, I might think I might go with John Smith.
There we have it.
I think I'm going to go with John Smith.
Yeah, how come Thor's not on this list?
Guess he's king now.
Whatever.
I don't know if this is official.
Right.
I wanted you guys to react to Trumpy Bear, see the video.
What?
Oh, Trumpy Bear commercial, I guess I can throw that into the
copyrighted things that we'll watch on Saturday, I suppose.
Trumpy Bear got a two minute commercial.
Looks like it could be funny.
Everyone's talking about Simba.
Like, yeah, Simba's.
Yeah, yeah, Simba's up there.
He's a good guy.
He's a good guy.
All right, super chat to let future me know where to resume tomorrow.
Fair enough.
Is Wolf doing OK?
He was my favorite of the three.
No offense.
So it's all right.
Yeah, he's doing OK.
That's fine.
Asshole.
Hello, me from Efap 47.
Boy, howdy.
Super chat reads are getting longer and longer.
Fun fact.
This is the first Efap to run over the eight hour mark.
Oh, in 47.
Yeah, we I believe for a while we thought that eight hours is the cap.
Right. And then we found out it was 12.
Then we found out just by happenstance that no, we could keep this train running even longer.
Batwoman is now DCEU movie canon.
That is that that's true.
Oh, because well, because I was going to say the the episodes have come out, by the way.
Right.
So some of these messages could be related to what happens in those episodes.
And Batwoman.
Apparently she's DCEU movie canon now.
Oh, my God.
We shall see.
Yay.
Mueller is finally considering the record.
Well, streaming thing I suggested all the way back in Efap 50.
You'll laugh my ass off.
Love you, you're massive.
I'll see if I can record what is available stream for you.
Yeah, it worked out fine.
Eventually, like the stream was saved.
But I will.
I do need to look into that.
I was actually planning on sorting out my OBS in ready for this weekend.
But then I've got moved up.
So I shall get around to it.
Hello.
What's everyone's favorite music groups?
Electric Light Orchestra is my favorite, I'd say.
Symphonic Metal is my favorite.
Wait, is that a band you named or genre?
No, I'm into band.
Yellow.
Oh, cool.
Might be Rhapsody of Fire, probably.
They're they're they're British.
You'd heard of them.
They're.
I don't know enough about music.
I'm very weak on that subject, to be honest.
I like music, though.
It's cool.
I like it, too.
Shad's book looks like something I'd be interested in.
But as someone who's a beginner to novels, I'm not sure if it's a good starter.
Does anyone have mainly does anyone have mainly for Shad?
But really, anyone English class in Australia made me hate reading because they kept giving me shit books.
But I'm thinking starting reading.
It cuts off there.
I don't know if there was more to that.
If you if the if the question is what you need smaller stuff to start off.
You're like beginner novels like the Alchemist.
Pretty simplistic while being long running stories still more meant for kids to read.
Harry Potter is probably decent enough, right, as a start.
I don't know.
Did you read my super chat is the one about Jedi and Sith philosophy possibly hours ago.
Also, high rags.
Yes, I remember it's from British night.
Let me see if I can load it back up and try and remember what our answer was.
The Jedi philosophy is based in submission morality, namely submission to the force.
Sith philosophy is based in self determinism to the nth degree.
Yeah, I don't have any problem with that necessarily.
I don't know what else to sort of go into it with.
Submission for morality versus self determinism.
Happy New Year is kind of shows where we're at.
Happy New Year, you great big bunch of massives.
Love you guys.
And this is the best community on YouTube.
Don't care what anyone says.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Yeah, I think it's pretty good community as communities go.
Ain't ain't so bad at all.
Do we get caught up on the book thing?
Because I've mentioned one.
Did you have a short, a smaller book suggestion for him to start out in?
I recommended the Lemony Snicket books being that they're very new person friendly.
And then I figure Harry Potter would be a decent step up from that then as well.
We it's interesting.
We talked about the Tarn from Black Cauldron, but the Disney movies based on the predain Chronicles.
Those might be worth a look.
I started reading some of those.
The I think the first Eragon book is good.
Just stop after that.
Just stop after that.
Let's see.
As I mentioned before, Nightfall is a good one.
That's Isaac Asimov and Robert Silverberg.
I think that Asimov and Clark did a book together called Hammer of God.
And I would highly suggest, let's see, Hammer of God.
Or was that just Clark?
That's just Arthur C. Clark.
It's a 93 science fiction novel.
It's really good.
I would recommend the Hammer of God.
One thing to do that might be useful is to pick up one of those old anthologies of short stories, science fiction short stories, because you don't have to stick with them for too long.
In order to, you know, you go from one story to the next to the next.
So it's like reading a bunch of, you know, a bunch of tiny books.
So, you know, you could do that.
Let's see.
Some people say and start with a Hobbit.
I forget how big those books were.
They're they're very I don't know if I'd start with those books.
They're just written very detailed and they're like they're wonderful.
But the style might catch some off guard or it might not be for everyone.
I'm just trying to sort of think about when I used to read what kind of stuff, what I'd recommend.
Mice and Men would probably be a good one to do.
I would also if you if you want to.
I think that's Pat Conroy.
I think I forget the names.
That's is it Pat Conroy?
Let me double check.
No, John Steinbeck.
Yes, John Steinbeck.
Why did I think Pat Conroy?
But there is also the Lords of Discipline.
That's a really good book.
I would highly recommend you read Lords of Discipline, too.
That's the book by Pat Conroy.
That's the one I was mixing it up with.
But yeah, The Lords of Discipline is a fantastic book.
Some people are saying To Kill a Mockingbird.
That's a pretty good one.
That's a pretty good one.
But yeah, I think the first suggestion I made was probably the best, The Alchemist.
Very approachable, really great.
I would definitely recommend starting off with The Alchemist.
Someone mentioned Dune.
Dune's a little weightier than the rest, but Dune is good.
So I would definitely recommend Dune if you want to get something good.
Well, that's a pretty wide selection.
I'm sure they can work with that.
Yeah, I guess it just kept going.
That's me.
That's okay.
I think that's Efap at this point.
That's Efap.
Watch Trump anime by Canadian Turtle.
Trump anime?
Trump anime.
Is it the one who?
Hello, all my masses.
Could both hosts and guests, if this is during the next Efap, sing Magic Aids Bus in the way Magic School Bus is sung.
Also, Hi Rags.
Magic Aids Bus.
Hello.
How is Magic School Bus sung?
Hop on the Magic School Bus.
Hop on the Magic Aids Bus.
I'm guessing they would need a full set of lyrics, but I don't even...
I don't even remember.
Something about a River of Lava.
River of Aids?
River of Aids.
Oh, no.
This is something.
I'm going to judge whether or not I'll put this on screen by your reaction rags, okay?
Ready?
All right, let's do it.
Oh, my God.
Hmm, I don't know judging from that.
Toxic Brood on board.
Oh, my goodness.
It's okay to put that up, right?
I think so.
I guess.
It's just not for long, I suppose, is the plan.
I don't know.
You never know with these things.
I don't know.
Toxic Brood on board.
Should be mostly fine.
I don't know specifically what this was reference to.
If this is how we go, then this is how we go.
This is if have life takes you in all kinds of places.
It's going to be a...
I don't even know if I'm sure what I think about all that.
Yeah, it's complicated feelings.
We've got loads of show it, do it.
We'll see how they react to that.
We shall see.
That is something else.
Would you guys ever review slash rip into old Godzilla movies?
The ensuing rage would feed me for an entire year.
Well, if we're ever running low on power, I'm sure all the hot air could keep us warm in the winter.
I think we'll probably cover Godzilla versus Kong.
That's going to happen.
This is a follow up from King of Monsters.
How is Kong even going to stand a chance?
Have you seen like this concept pictures where Kong is like the same size as Godzilla?
And I was like, fuck no, I didn't realize that.
Godzilla is like massive compared to King Kong.
Well, the new King Kong is big.
Oh, the new King Kong.
He's much bigger.
I don't know that he's like the same size though.
If I can find you an image.
Yeah, I don't know how Kong is going to stand a chance.
Ragman.
I'm curious about that.
Who's the bad guy in that movie?
Who wants to both be good guys?
Between Kong and.
Zilla.
I don't know.
Maybe start to get into a tussle at first and it's like a tie.
And then before they keep fighting, like a new monster shows up and they both have to team up to kill it.
What is with this fucking iteration of Kong?
Look at that picture.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Godzilla.
Yeah, I suppose we'll see that.
That's probably what we would do.
And we're back.
Rule of two.
Also.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Mola.
Happy New Year.
Anna.
Roxy.
Tremison.
Roxy.
Tremison.
Is that like a pill?
Some kind.
A medicine.
And then Rags.
Possibly.
Yeah.
I'm not sure that one.
And Rags.
Boy.
I am.
I am.
That is me.
Hi.
And at Rags.
Who's the father?
Oh, is it bad that I don't know?
I think that, you know, it depends on the context and circumstances.
It's OK.
Oh, stinky in relation to that picture of King Kong.
Shame.
I won't be around to listen to you read super chats, but may the dawn bless your new year.
My fellow N words and walks.
Sorry.
And walks instead of you walks and walks.
Suggestion for starters.
Another meme thing.
I need a groaning sound from everyone who has a little cardboard cutout from the advent calendar.
It can be sensual or angry or whatever.
When I that because that was that was about to mean by.
My follow up is now when you say groan, do you mean like, damn, he's big or like I just landed on a chain after jumping into a hole or like an angry growl?
But I guess we have some creative liberties here.
And apparently it's for when I poke a skewer through the bottom of the cutout.
So you want to get everybody who's on that advent calendar to do that.
That's going to be tough.
A groan.
I mean, if it's just a groan, you probably couldn't even tell that it's not from the person or from the person.
You know, I guess he's just going just just for the fidelity, the sheer devotion to the craft.
He wants all those details right where they need to be.
Somebody is skewering me.
I probably go off.
Then again, I probably be screaming.
This is a skewer.
I might go.
Or I could be like a or a who knows might be going like, who knows?
Who knows?
But yes, good luck with getting everybody to do that.
I'm not sure how that's going to run like all kinds of noises when I'm skewered.
That's true.
That's true.
Predator versus Judge Dredd versus aliens.
Alien thoughts.
Predator.
Judge Dredd versus aliens.
This is specified just aliens.
So I'm one.
I'm a purist who thinks that Predator dominates alien pretty much unless the alien gets the alien.
Predator does.
Yeah.
Because if they couldn't kill aliens, they wouldn't breed them to hunt them.
Well, if we go strictly by the first movies for all of these, I still think Predator beats alien.
The only if it's a fair fight, as in they both know they're in a room.
They both know each other exists.
Predators won.
But if it's like the alien can sneak attack it, then sure, I guess the alien could win.
But Predator is going to fuck up the alien pretty pretty easily if he has a shot at using any of his weapons.
And then Judge Dredd.
I feel like Judge Dredd loses to both of those.
I guess he could smack.
He could fuck up them both in the right circumstances.
I guess that's how this works.
It's always going to be the right circumstances for all of them.
Because you could shoot Predator and kill him.
That's the thing.
And I don't know what is the extent of his visor.
But he's the only one from that trio that isn't from that universe.
Yeah.
But you could.
He's like a Marine, but better.
Right.
Yeah.
But so are like Marines in the alien universe.
So I don't know.
It's weird.
That's what I mean.
They're all capable of killing each other.
It's just.
Yes, they are all capable of killing each other.
It's almost like Judge Dredd takes the place of the Marines.
I would.
Yeah.
My money would be on the Predator, but I think it's possible for anyone to win.
Yeah.
Godzilla versus Steve Boat, who would.
Oh, Steamboat.
Steamboat fucking crushes that.
Yeah.
Wags.
I didn't hear you sing AIDS bus.
Do it.
I've been working on that meme for weeks and I need those lines sung by Efap.
See, I just go by song lyrics.
Yeah.
See.
So it's just, it's just saying it's just singing.
Hop on the magic AIDS bus.
That's all.
I guess.
Just singing like hop on the magic AIDS bus.
Is that all you need?
I don't know if you want.
There's always room for more on the magic AIDS bus.
There's a seat right next to Carly.
She has AIDS.
She got on the magic AIDS bus.
What?
You don't want to you don't want to jump on.
Yeah, we got so much room passengers keep dying of AIDS.
Yeah.
Hop on the magic AIDS bus.
Did it Carly die?
It's a work in progress.
Mm hmm.
Once again, rags you are who led me to Efap regardless what the women have to say.
Just want to say I look forward to my video being reviewed by Efap and using that to mask my place among Efap's heroes.
My goodness.
Holy fuck.
You guys have totally eclipsed the goddamn podcast in time, popularity and donations.
The goddamn.
Is that a podcast?
Expelliarmus.
The goddamn.
The goddamn podcast.
Apparently it's a thing.
Goddamn podcast.
Goddamn podcast on YouTube.
Yeah, I don't know.
Oh, they streams nine minutes ago.
So.
Well, yeah.
Fair enough.
So I guess they started.
They started before we started and then they started and then they ended and then.
That's natural for the most part.
Predator versus steamboat steamboat easily.
Predator would struggle to keep up with steamboat.
Hey, guys, I ship for the U.S. A.F. this month.
Thanks for all the memes and Efaps.
Love you all for your amazing content and keep being great.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Yeah, good stuff, man.
Have fun.
I suppose I'm glad that it's given you the fun that it has.
This one just says we're not mad, just disappointed.
I think that might be related to Star Trek Star Wars.
Sorry, I don't know.
I'm I was mad at first, but.
The best MCU movies are like Shake Shack.
Shake Shack.
I don't know what to make of that.
Shake Shack.
How long until Shad jumps on with his spaghetti bolognese?
Oh, you know, I don't know.
It'll be any time.
Good old shit.
Toss a coin to your witcher.
Zero Valley of Plenty.
Oh, no.
Oh, Valley of Plenty.
Oh, Valley of Plenty.
Toss a coin to your witcher and friend of humanity.
Is that something in the witcher?
I think it's that song they made.
They made a song about witcher stuff.
And there's like a line that says toss a coin to your witcher.
Wish me a happy 33rd birthday.
Thanks for all the content.
Happy 33rd birthday. Hope it was good tisms.
Yeah, I hope that the day went well.
I say went because it is 1217.
It is now officially tomorrow.
Yes.
Well, this was a super chat from the New Year's Eve stream, so.
All back.
Fuck Mary Kill, young Leia, Rey, Padme.
Oh, I think we did this one before, didn't we?
Mary Leia.
She's awesome.
Yeah.
Kill Rey.
Also, magic taken into the royal family.
Can you kill Rey?
Is that possible?
I guess by the rules of this, yes.
I mean, she died in the film, technically.
There's no bed to bring her back this time.
Yeah.
And then fuck Padme?
That makes sense, right?
Fuck Padme?
Yeah, fuck Padme.
There we go.
D riddled that riddle.
Yeah, there you go.
Just finished watching Return of the Jedi with my dad a few minutes ago.
First time in 10 years.
It's just as good as I remember, even if the CGI is a bit dated.
That's the thing with the stronger movies last a lot longer than the weaker ones, for sure.
Thanks for introducing me to Steins Gate.
Oh, this is a question for him.
I shall keep this.
For her.
For her.
Her.
Real talk with you, you're massive.
In my line of work, I spend long hours outside working.
You guys give me daily content to listen to.
Appreciate it, my dude.
Make the hours bearable.
Oh, man, that's great to hear.
We like hearing stuff like that.
We do.
That always makes me smile.
Happy New Year.
I believe that someone can start listening to one of our podcasts at the beginning of their shift,
finish their shift, not finish the podcast,
and still have enough for half of their next shift.
Yeah, that's that's kind of the idea, especially if they decide, you know what?
I'm going to rewatch a fab.
It's like, oh, man, it's going to be a while before you catch back up.
And then there's the eFap minis.
True.
Yeah.
Those are like concentrated supercut eFaps.
Yeah, they are.
Those ones are dense.
Mm hmm.
Happy New Year, you bunch of massives.
A toast to the year full of alcohol, alcohol and destruction.
Why?
A toast.
A toast.
You guys are live streaming at the same time as Razorfist,
and I'm having to switch between you two.
Well.
Oh, my God.
I guess we got to get them on the show so you don't have to do that.
True.
Leia killed herself to save Rey by distracting her own son during a duel.
Kind of a dick move.
Funnily enough,
Jebby Nichols put out a tweet about this that I completely agree with.
She said, if you remember the fight, Rags,
he has several opportunities to kill Rey and he just doesn't.
Like, the only time he ever seems to move the sword is in defense of a Rey attack,
and then she gets, like, really tired.
And then suddenly decides to go for a kill shot?
Like, huh?
You know what I mean?
Like, he spends the whole fight, like, not really looking to kill her,
but then he's like, yeah, you know what?
I guess I will.
And then Leia shows up and is like, oh.
It's very strange.
Sorry, mom.
But then again, what isn't strange when it comes to Kylo Ren?
My question last time was on which game to play next.
Kotor versus Binding of Isaac versus Nia versus Hellblade versus the new Terminator game.
Oof, that is a selection.
Probably Hellblade because it's high quality and...
Hellblade's long.
Yeah, Hellblade's great.
You can go through it once.
It doesn't take too long.
But if you do roguelikes like Binding of Isaac, you can just get really sunk into it
and just go and go and go and go and go.
And then as for the rest, Binding of Isaac is quite the time sink if you wanted to get fully into it.
Maybe Nia should come after that one?
I don't know about the new Terminator game and then Kotor.
I mean, this community has nothing but good things to say, so...
I feel like Terminator would be easier to get through than Nia.
Yeah, just make sure it's something you want to play, I guess.
Just check out some reviews or whatever.
Yeah, you know, shooters are generally easier to get through than, like, RPGs or action games a lot of the time.
Malleh, monolithic, means single rock.
Stop it.
All right.
Race training scenes plagiarized from Avatar.
Oh, because of the floating rocks thing.
Yeah.
Well, you know, Luke floated a rock, but it's just not impressive to float one these days.
You've got to float loads of them in, like, an actual sort of pattern.
Mm-hmm.
But it's cool.
That's why Jabo loves Rey.
TLJ ended with her lifting boulders.
Oh.
And it does open in the new film with her lifting boulders again, so...
Definitely a subjective reason to enjoy it, just saying.
Is the fanfic author alive?
Um...
The fanfic of what?
I don't know.
What fanfiction are we talking about in the New Year's Eve stream at all?
Does that bring any memories to...?
It's a minor one.
Oh.
I'm not sure.
I can't remember.
Oh, the person who made the Mary Sue thing, I guess.
That's probably it.
I don't know if she's alive or not, assuming it's a she.
Oh.
Yeah, I don't know.
Um, yeah, I'd have to look into it.
Um, love you guys.
Aiden is a long-whammin' good, and ER is a quiet boy.
Keep up the great work.
Here's five pounds.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Please cover a Diabeto vid with Razorfist soon.
I've heard that's the way to go, and we've got plenty on backup of Diabeto.
So, um, yeah, it'll work out.
Happy New Year's, you Massives.
And it's a bit ironic on social media that people are attacking fans that didn't like
their space movie for children.
Oh, yes.
Oh, yes.
Um...
Um, what is this?
Frick you, Southpaw.
Mugely send this entire Super Chat to him out of spite.
I love you, you Massive.
Now for a question.
What was your favorite efap of the year?
Could it be the Aiden Sleepytism stream?
That was Good Rat.
Um, I think we've answered this before, and 50 tends to be the answer.
Oz, uh...
Yeah, that was a...
50 is such a cavalcade.
I really do like the two wolf streams, though, the last ones we did.
Those were good ones, yeah.
Especially near the end, we started to really just loosen up.
It was Goodtism.
Those are my favorites, I suppose.
I think so.
50's at the top of my list.
Lots of good moments throughout, though.
Boo.
Hello, Neewox.
I think that's supposed to be Enewox.
Neewox?
Enewox, I don't know.
Glib is awesome.
He's very well spoken.
Also, death threats, really?
Yeah, that was weird.
Yeah.
And Glib was very well spoken.
It was nice to have him on.
Yeah, you did good.
2020.
You're a monster, 2019.
Yes, I am.
Finally sure of what's happening there.
But yes, 2020 so far has been okay, hasn't it, Rags?
It's been all right.
So far, 2020's been doing pretty good.
We're 15 days into this decade, and I can say it's okay.
All right.
That is my completed rating.
Idea for eFAB movie.
Coraline, but with wild drunk slash high.
Oh, my God.
That would be the eFAB movie.
I don't know how that works exactly.
I don't know.
We'd want to watch a shitty one that probably won't get caught.
Right.
As a fellow cracker zoean, I'd love to see Filmento here.
There are videos he's made that I've wanted to cover on eFAB.
So he's welcome to come on.
I don't know that he will or would, but there's a good chance we will cover him at some point.
Not in a hunting way, just in a way that I'd like to address points he makes.
Hi, eFappers.
Happy New Year's from this drunk cunt.
Well, good drunkiness to you soon, sir.
Drunk cunt?
Drunk cunt.
We love you, Aiden.
Happy New Year's.
Happy New Year's.
Happy New Year's to you.
The Earth is around 4.5 billion years old, and the universe is 13.8 billion years old.
Everyone stop hating on Aiden.
Love you, Aiden.
Hi, Wags.
Hello.
You either come in the sink or the sink in the cum.
Ringo Slobbins.
I always heard it to where you either.
You come in the sink or sink in the cum.
I've always heard it's better to come in the shower than shower in the cum, but I don't know about that.
Both of these are interesting pieces of advice.
It's really based.
Really, it's just one of those mental exercises on how much do you like cum?
Will we get the answers to that?
I do not know.
Like from everyone.
Love Aiden, long woman, good.
Where that white woman at?
And that apparently is a quote from Finn.
I don't remember that in the film, but maybe.
E.R.
Reylo is worse than Korra and Mako.
I don't know if he'd agree with that.
Korra very much attacks his soul, so maybe.
My notes for TROS after listening to Efap66 shot up to 41 pages, and the script is already 20 pages,
which is currently covering the Falcon arriving at Persona.
Kill me.
Yeah, that was daunting for me as well.
Like, my script was getting way too fat before I'd even gotten to significant scenes.
I was like, oh god.
Like, talking about all of this.
That stream didn't help.
We found so many problems with that film.
They called Anakin's lightsaber Raze in Fortnite.
Oh.
I guess.
Yeah.
Raze lightsaber, right?
Yeah.
He repaired it.
It totally is.
Nobody's talking about how Lando never reacted slash mentioned Han's death.
That makes me sad.
Also, Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Yeah, that's true.
I didn't even think about that.
There's no.
He doesn't even like.
He doesn't even say I heard about what happened.
He doesn't acknowledge it.
Yeah.
Say some good things about him or something.
That would be a scene I would want where Lando sits down next to Chewie and they have like you could you can write a really good scene with that.
But there was.
He's got a male Chewie dialogue.
Yeah, it's tough, but it's something you could really make meaningful.
And it's just there is no seed like that in Rise of Skywalker.
No characters speak to each other, for fuck's sake.
Like.
It is.
The only ones.
They're together for so long, but they do so little with character stuff.
You have when Finn's like, hey, Ray, you're not evil.
And she's like, you don't know that.
Like, okay, that's a small something.
Then there's the one where it's like I used to be a soldier, too, until we all dropped our weapons because we didn't want to kill people because the force told us to.
And then Finn's like, whoa, me too.
Like, OK, so you got two.
That's about it.
I guess there's a tiny bit between Ray and Kylo in the film, sort of so little.
And then there's a smooch where they seal their love for each other.
No.
Horrifying.
Found your channel this year and loving it.
Can't wait to see what you have in store for 2020.
Hi, Rags.
Shebo.
Hello.
Oh, that's great to hear.
Save the dream.
I hate women, but come on, chat.
Aiden didn't deserve that.
I mean, we don't know who it was who was sending that stuff.
I hope it's not chat.
I don't think so.
Probably trolls or something like that.
Those dirty Ewoks need to go back to Endor.
Oh, my God.
Scene phrases like, what up, my Ewoks?
Popping up in a number of other streams.
Genuinely confusing the hell out of whoever is streaming.
Well done, Efap.
Hey, man.
It was Quinted Reviews.
It wasn't us.
He's a...
At the mercy of it.
Yeah.
What can we do?
We can't do anything.
Have any of you seen Trollhunter on Netflix?
I think it does the hero's journey really well.
Three below kind of sucks.
Three below kind of sucks?
Okay.
I have not seen it, no.
I haven't seen it, no.
Ralph, the movie maker's last few reviews have kind of sucked.
Well, that'll be an interesting thing to check out.
Won't it, Rags?
Soon enough?
I am ready.
Yeah, downright excited.
Rev the engines, if you will.
Bringing Jay Longbone on.
An Ewok?
Is this fanservice?
Yes.
Good fanservice, though.
Makes sense.
This is pod racing.
Mm-hmm.
Happy Jeb Year.
I am the alien.
Scan me.
I dare you.
Ah, the alien game.
Good tism.
Dude, Mauler.
I'm fucking drunk right now.
Gappy New Year, man.
You're the best-er, damn YouTuber I know, man-you're.
Dark Oles 2 Suresse.
The best shit ever seen on YouTube.
You make great ass shit, man.
You've inspired me to experience content new.
Good stuff?
Thanks for sending the chat in, and I hope you weren't too drunk
that you were unable to get home safely,
wherever you may have been.
But thank you.
And then we've got Fuck You, It's January.
Are there any films that have come out in January that aren't terrible?
I thought, what's come out recently?
Because the whole terrible movies are supposed to come out in January, right?
That's how that works?
For this year?
Wait, 1917.
When did that come out?
I think it came out.
Oh, 4th of December.
Wait, really?
Oh, OK.
It seems like, gosh, that seems before, I don't know.
I feel like, because it's only in the last few days
that I've been hearing loads about it, you know?
Yeah.
Maybe it released somewhere else?
Like a special country that got it?
Well, according to the...
Apparently, that's the UK.
Uh, 1917.
Release America.
4th of December, apparently.
No?
I don't know.
Dr. Doolittle, Jumanji Underwater.
Frozen 2.
Oh, Jumanji?
I fear that's not terrible.
Uh...
Oh, that was 11th of December, though.
What the fuck?
I typed in January movies.
It's not...
What are you doing?
The Grudge?
Uncut Gems?
Pretty sure that was before January.
And Little Women was.
Jojo Rabbit?
Parasite?
No, that was before...
Oh.
Uh...
Is Parasite really?
I don't know.
I do not know.
We can watch Tanhaji.
Well, everyone chat saying 1917.
It had a limited release.
Ra said, this weekend you pleb shit hack.
I mean, I'm reading the internet to you.
What do you want me to do?
I don't have this opinion.
I'm just saying, apparently, that's what it was released.
Would the internet really lie to me?
Release date the 4th of December, 2019, United Kingdom.
But, uh, yeah, I don't know.
I guess 1917 has been very good.
So, for Fuck You, it's January.
It's not so bad.
Fuck you, it's January.
Um...
Did you look at the Confirmed Trevorrow script?
No.
Not yet.
Not yet.
Not yet.
Remember when Efap was some Tism who liked talking about films
and not just a cult of people who worshipped the rooftop god?
I remember.
Hi, Rags.
Hail Ra.
Hello.
I like this one.
This just says, Patrick Willems makes bad content.
Okay.
Well, uh, he...
I wonder how he's doing these days.
I don't know where he's released recently.
I think I've tried to keep up with him.
I know he did that John Wick one that was really weird.
Did I tell you about that, Rags?
He says that, uh, John Wick scenes are made worse
whenever there's assault rifles,
because assault rifles should be removed from the scenes
just like they should be removed from anybody in real life.
Who said that?
Patrick Willems.
Um, okay.
No, you should not own assault rifle.
It's just a weird injection in the middle of his video.
Yeah, especially because assault rifles are very difficult
and expensive to come by.
Almost nobody has them.
Um...
He hasn't done anything in the last month.
Alright, Patrick.
Yeah, your blessings.
Uh, E.R. and Rags.
Eloise, y'all, man.
What are your thoughts on life?
Thoughts on life?
I like life.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, that's going well.
I enjoy it.
Hope to continue to enjoy it.
Uh, I love Steins Gate.
I love...
And Death Note.
Rags loved you vid on Mr. Matty Plays?
Oh, thanks.
That was a while ago.
Apparently, that's how they found you.
Yeah, that was a long time ago.
That was a good one.
I remember it.
That game was kind of poop.
Oh, hey, look.
A super chat that is now made superior by us having done the stream today.
Just right uploaded today.
Ah.
Things he no like.
Not enough rows because JJ pandering to racists.
Oh, yeah, he did say that.
Like, JJ was trying to pad her to racists.
That's why she wasn't as much while JJ's excuse.
I don't know if you know this.
He said that, uh, she had a way bigger role, but it was all to do with Leia and Leia's
scenes got cut because she looked awkward.
And apparently that means Rose's scenes got cut, too.
Hmm.
That's what JJ said.
And I like to think that the most likely thing is that he really just didn't fucking like
Rose.
There's nothing to do.
Exactly.
She's a fucking annoying character.
I'm sorry.
It's nothing to do with being Asian.
It's not.
It's not what people hate at all.
And I don't understand how you can maintain that when you've got the Rogue One characters
that nobody hated.
Yeah.
And Finn.
Oh, well, they would probably argue that.
No, people are OK with black people at this point, but Asians.
Oh, yeah.
Those Asians.
Too much racism.
Got to draw the line somewhere.
How much time left until?
Until you hit the cap.
We've got two hours and 20 minutes.
Oh, my God.
I mean, if you know, let me know if you want to wear off at some point because we're never
going to get through all of these.
Yeah, because I'm I get pretty tired.
Well, yeah, just how long do you reckon you want to go for?
Oh, you want to just finish up the hour and go another 24 minutes.
Sure.
Round it out.
Well, you guys know the T.L.J. fans.
Yes.
Light Furies are a separate subspecies.
You can see two more when Hiccup goes to the Hidden World.
Oh, that's about how to train your dragon.
How to train your dragon.
You two are completely misrepresenting the third How to Train Your Dragon film.
Griml was the one who made Night Furies extinct.
The Light Fury is a different species.
I haven't seen them.
I don't know.
Who are the two that were talking about it?
You remember?
Was it Glid?
Oh, maybe.
I don't think I don't know.
I don't think it was Glid.
I don't remember.
I don't.
I do not remember.
Yeah, I don't remember either.
But fair enough.
Don't know enough about that.
Those movies.
Happy New Year's and may 2020 bring insight to all.
I hope so too.
Watching EFAP, playing LEGO Star Wars.
Good way to end slash start the year.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year.
Sorry, I can't stay and watch you lovely Ewoks.
Currently watching Lord of the Rings with the Wife.
I'll have to binge while painting miniatures later.
Love you guys.
Have a Happy New Year.
Also, hello, wags.
Hello.
Y'all check Twitter for John Boyega's Tweets of our Star Wars?
Yes, it was funny.
Yeah, the main event was when, and I'm paraphrasing, right?
You have to go look for this to get the specifics.
But the way I remember going is someone says that like,
something about like Finn is happy about the fact that Kyla's dead,
because it means that Rey is single and it's like a gift of him dancing.
And he says it's something like it's not about who gets the kiss,
it's about who lays the pipe.
I think that's what he said.
And he got accused of being a sexism for saying that.
Oh my God.
You see, to refer to sexual activity with the female species
is ultimately objectification.
Yeah, sexism.
Very much so.
All the takeaways by hours were closed,
so I'm having beans on toast for watching Efap to make up for it.
Carry on, Massives.
Also, watch Evangelion.
I guess it'll go on the list.
The rather large list.
Break their legs, Ra.
I took Rags' advice and got off Twitter.
Good choice.
Yeah, man.
Pretty much so.
Get away from that shit.
Twitter is the big game.
Happy New Year, my massive Ewoks, and hello, Wags.
Hello.
Mando Episode 4 was directed by Bryce Dallas Howard.
Textbook nepotism.
No way someone with her directing resume should get that job.
Well, that was arguably the worst episode of them all
by a considerable margin than some of the others.
And I don't think that she's entirely to blame.
Surely John Favreau gets to show up.
Some of it considering the other episodes and the fact
that he's supposed to be involved in every episode.
Yes, she's the director.
Agreed.
But the writing is so fucking bad in that episode.
But agreed that she is Ron Howard's daughter, right?
So there's a good chance that that's how she got the gig.
But then again, I don't know what her directing history is.
Who knows?
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Happy New Year, my massive Ewoks.
Here's to a new decade of Efapping.
Here, here.
Another decade.
Thoughts on how Clone Wars Season 7 will turn out?
I got no clue.
I hate to follow it.
I have no idea.
I hope it turns out good for the Clone Wars fans, though, honestly.
Yeah.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello.
Happy New Year, Long Man and Doggo.
May the dawn bless.
God bless you.
Oh, may the dawn bless you.
My country is on fire for about three months,
but at least I can watch Efap.
Yay.
Yes, it's the little positives you try and draw out.
That was probably before the bush fires,
so that's just referring to somewhere else being on fire, I suppose.
Unfortunate, but hopefully not fatal.
Happy New Year, my Ewoks.
Twi'lex, Rodians, et cetera.
Hi, Wags.
Hello.
In a fight between the Gold
In a fight between the Golden Company and the Knights of Wren,
which dies faster in under 20 seconds?
There's more of the Golden Company,
but the Knights of Wren have more deadly weapons, I suppose.
Do the Knights of Wren have deadlier weapons?
I don't know.
Going from the film, you'd say no,
but going from their law in visual dictionaries and all that shit,
apparently they do.
We have to make them cool because the movies are shit.
Yes.
The Golden Company will probably win.
There's way more of them.
They'll just flow over them.
Mola, since I know you'll never get around to doing a critique on Bioshock Infinite,
can you and people on stream give your thoughts on the game, please?
There's nothing about it I like.
Yeah, well, I like the art direction.
The music is...
Yeah, the music's pretty good.
It looks, in terms of its art design, I like it.
But it took everything that was great about Bioshock 1 and 2
and really just kind of stripped it out.
The guns are extremely bland, like all of the weapons.
The guns are very bland.
They practically discourage, in a lot of ways, upgrading them.
They severely limited the amount of plasmids that you could have,
and a lot of them are just kind of shit.
Yeah, I remember.
Then the problem was that there was the obvious choice.
There's a couple of obvious choices, but the crows combined with the upgrade
means that if you fire crows at people and anyone who dies launches extra crows
and so you fire one and then you just headshot people
and you could take out easy crowds because they're all stunned
and then you just get infinite crows.
There weren't many plasmids. They were super boring.
A lot of them just hit the button to make an attack or charge to lay a trap.
I hate...
The hacking was stupid, pointless.
It really discouraged exploration.
The exploration was weak as fuck.
The amount they did not seem to care about placing interesting things in the environment.
Yeah, there's really no reason to explore the world.
Combat was very dull. Weapons were dull.
The story was shit.
The story was desperately clinging to Bioshock original.
It was like, look, we're connected to this thing.
Do you remember the audio diary where it says
that Fink was able to look through some kind of portal
and he saw Dr. Soo Chung working on a Bioshock Big Daddy
and that's how he got the idea of how to make the Big Bird thing?
Like, what? Crazy nonsense.
He doesn't follow its own rules.
The time-traveling stuff fucks everything up.
Yeah, it's really a really, really disappointing game.
And it's such a shame after Bioshock 1 and Bioshock 2 were both absolutely fantastic.
You see that and it just...
It's just the most bland, dull shooter with so little to mix it up.
It's better I don't remember it because I remember at the peak of it,
I fucking hated Bioshock Infinite.
I had a lot to say about how much I hated that game.
Yeah, man.
I got through it in two sittings and I was just like, is it done yet?
Then I got to the ending and then the ending didn't make any sense
and it didn't follow its own rules.
There's always a man, a lighthouse and whatever else.
It's like, what the fuck?
Just play Bioshock 1 and 2. They hold up.
The Bioshock 1 holds up.
I remember the Bioshock 2 DLC that took you to like the technology center
that was locked off.
Never played that one. Never played that.
It was a really awesome mini story.
Bioshock 1 and 2, man.
Oh yeah, and Elizabeth's powers.
You don't use them in ways that would be obviously beneficial.
He's like, pull out some ammo for me.
It's like, how about we just fucking...
There's so many things you could do.
Yeah, you have the power to access alternate dimensions.
Do you want to just fucking get me a machine gun from an alternate dimension or something?
Or do you want to make enemies go into these dimensional portals
or do something useful or can you teleport us someplace to get us out of here?
Instead, it's just you have the ability to tell her to make a turret appear.
Make a turret appear someplace and it's nothing. It's just boring.
It's so dull.
I hate that game.
Matthew Matosis made an excellent video.
Yes, go watch that.
Yeah, go watch Matthew Matosis' video on Bioshock Infinite.
His video actually...
I think it's good. That will change your mind.
I've said this before, his video really put me off making one
because I was like, you've kind of nailed it already.
So I guess I don't need to do my job.
And he did it really quickly too.
Oh, I hate that game.
Demon Slayer is unironically a good new anime and Sans is in Smash Bros.
Hope you guys are doing well tonight. Hi, Mauler.
Hello.
And I'm glad Sans is in Smash Bros.
Take my money, you beautiful barstools.
Genuinely disappointed about Bioshock Infinite.
Yeah.
And you know what else annoyed me?
I don't know if you remember this, Rags, but I fucking do.
The internet was over the moon about Bioshock Infinite when it came out.
Yeah.
Everyone thought it was the best fucking thing since sliced bread.
It was incredible.
I remember people sharing all of the moments and like watching Elizabeth
dance with a bunch of people.
I remember people talking about that for ages, about being one of like the
best, most personal and human moments in the game.
I was like, it's all pre-scripted.
It's like watching a fucking clip of someone dancing.
Yeah.
And there's no way that someone like Elizabeth who's been, you know,
locked away in that...
Yeah.
Her character still fucking says it all.
Outgoing and let's dance and have a great time.
And I'm just so, I'm so personable and charismatic.
I was like, yeah, fuck off.
It was annoying.
Um, a video came across my feed recently debunking common spider myths.
Future telling wasn't on it.
So it's still in play.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Well, of course they can't debunk that.
That's just truth.
Like it would be embarrassing if they could even try to debunk
that spiders can tell the future.
I would be annoyed if they tried that.
Um, I am sure James Moore can gift us MovieBob.com.
Yeah.
Again, you really want to spend like it could be a lot of money.
It's a good meme though.
I will say that.
Yeah.
I mean, 500 minimum.
That's the lowest bid that you can put in.
And how long does that buy it for you?
Is it permanent or is it?
I think it's...
I don't know.
I assume it's yours.
A technical question.
How do you get the discord chat bubbles,
the way Efap has it at the bottom of the screen in Streamlabs OBS?
Also Hi Rags.
Hello.
So you do window capture while you're in the call, obviously.
And then you need to disable hardware acceleration on Discord to make it show up in OBS.
And then just chop it so that it fits.
But the way I do it now to try and make sure that it always fits no matter what
and doesn't fuck up is that I've got a gray background
and then a chroma key out the gray that me and Rags would normally have.
But we could just...
It looks sleeker is basically what I'm getting at.
Hopefully that explains it.
Having women on a Jenny Nixon video, clearly you favor the higher ground.
Well, I mean, it's going to be hard for them to say that we will be in a sexism now, huh?
We had the wamans.
They just...
All of our guests had internalized their misogyny.
Damn.
This one just says Quentin is pain.
I agree.
Yeah.
Thanks for the year of E-Fapping.
Happy New Year, all.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
E-Fappy New Years, especially you, Rags.
Oh, thanks.
Happy New Year is your Massives.
Happy New Year.
You too.
What's up, guys?
Happy New Year is in two hours.
Just chilling, listening to you guys while playing Swator.
The only good Star Wars thing left.
So we started that stream at about 8 p.m. my time.
No, no, 10 p.m. my time, right?
Which means...
Oh, well, actually, that guy's saying it's in two hours.
He could be from anywhere all over the world, so that doesn't tell us anything.
Yeah.
Never mind.
Meanwhile, no one wished Happy New Year to Jabo.
Oh.
Who?
The boulder collector.
Never heard of him.
No, okay.
I'm bi.
Quentin maybe...
Being maybe bi makes me sad.
Oh.
Yeah, I mean...
We'll never compare you two.
It's okay, yeah.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year.
Fuck Dunkey and his fuck is it disingenuous bullshit.
But yeah, he's someone...
I was bringing up earlier that he was just making a joke.
Defense is a lot done for his work.
Wonderful cover him at any point.
He'll have to be a particularly egregious video, I suppose, which is rare.
Like, I don't think he really does make egregious videos.
Typically.
Happy New Year, everyone.
May the long man get longer and the toxic brood stronger.
One 15 at a time.
Also, hi Wags.
Hello, longer and stronger.
Oi ragas Darus?
You're a subscribe?
So I was wondering what your thoughts are on the new wave of Doge memes.
The heavily edited pics.
Are you a fan, or is it offensive torogz?
Mitism must know.
No, it's not offensive at all.
It's celebration of incredible handsomeness and charisma.
I saw a good one for the Rasputin, the Boney M song.
It was really, really good.
I thought it was great.
So I'm a fan.
Consider me a fan.
Birdman and Shutter Island are some of my favorites.
Thoughts?
I love Shutter Island.
I found-
I love Shutter Island too.
Birdman, I remember it giving me a bit of a headache
the way they do their one shot at times.
I'd have to rewatch it to give a better assessment,
but yeah, I love Shutter Island though.
The issue with Dunkey is that he hides behind subjectivity
when people call him out.
Do you mean like by the whole joke thing
or just the people that can have their opinion?
Because I wouldn't be surprised if he did that.
Dunkey made objectively false claims about Octopath.
That's what I understood.
I looked into it and it did seem to be that way.
Like the one example I remember was that he was showing
how shit the combat is, quote unquote shit.
And he was doing the equivalent of having,
do you remember me saying this?
I said that no PP left in any moves in Pokemon.
And trying to say that that is the combat in Pokemon.
Like you just-
Having no PP for anything?
No PP at all.
That's not, that's obviously, oh man, that's hard to do.
Well, yeah, that's the point.
He was showing combat where like he had no resources left
as a particular character.
And the person responding to it said it would have had,
he would have had to have forced that situation.
And that to say that that represents the combat
is really disingenuous.
And I was like, that sounds fair to me.
I haven't played the game, but that, you know,
I wouldn't be surprised that Dunkey would do that
because he did that with Yooka-Laylee
and it really annoyed me.
But hey, what am I gonna do?
He's just picking a joke, right?
So, you know, chill out guys, geez.
Yeah, it's just a joke.
Uh, didn't Dunkey 180 on his views on The Last of Us?
I don't know.
I do not know what his views on that is.
Hi all, it's been a while since I've been able
to catch you all live again.
Happy me.
Why no, Professor Tosspot?
He was really funny.
Last I heard Paul was sick.
I hope his Paul is doing better.
I did actually send him a message for New Year's.
He was, he was welcome to join.
I just don't think he,
I don't think he has Discord anymore.
I think it might be the case.
So I'm gonna have to see about trying to get him
through email or something.
I don't know.
Happy New Year, my fellow N-Walk words.
Happy New Year.
Hello, Happy New Year.
Get Jay, kick Jay, keep Jay,
MFK Finn, Poe Kylo.
Oh, marry, fuck, kill, Finn, Poe Kylo.
Kill Kylo immediately.
Kill Kylo.
Marry, Poe, fuck Finn?
Yeah, I'd say so.
I mean-
He seems competent in ways Finn just isn't, you know?
Like he could live with him.
You forgot to rate the love live use girls
by attractiveness from my super chat during the Arlo stream.
This is very important.
The love live use girls.
Let's see.
Love live use girls.
Oh, it's in the message.
Love live, oh, the love live muse?
I don't know, maybe.
I have to, so I'm gonna guess
this is a picture of him here, Marley.
Oh, okay.
Mm.
Muse.
All right, so.
All right, I guess we gotta rate their appearance.
So who's the, well, let's see.
Do we wanna start at the top?
Do you wanna go clockwise
from one side to the other sort of thing?
Yeah, yeah.
Bottom left, or yeah, it's clockwise from the left.
So you wanna have the bottom left, pretty good.
I really like this red head.
I like the short red head though, I like that.
Pretty good behind her.
Not too fond to the one with the yellow eyes.
Her hair looks really weird.
It's, I don't know, I don't like it.
She looks okay in the top there.
The one next kind of scares me.
A little weird the way she's giving me those eyes.
The one after her looks too young.
I don't know, sounds weird, but she just, I don't know.
I mean, a lot of them are on the young side
by the looks of things.
Yeah, but it's like anime.
I don't know if they're like, are they 12 or 36?
I don't fucking know.
Kind of hard to tell, especially with drawn, yeah.
Yeah, so second to last, she looks good.
I like the way she looks.
And then after that, I mean, she's fine too.
But I guess if I had to give my top three,
it would be two, two, three, and eight.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah, I think I can agree on eight, actually, yeah.
Just kind of hard to tell a lot of things
just from the drawing.
So it's difficult to get those objective judgments in
because of course, what we just said was definitive
and anyone who disagrees is, well, is wrong, you know?
So what else can you say?
Absolutely.
It's a trap more, they're trying to weave you.
Hey, Mulr and Rags, me and my wife, Megan,
have been listening to you ever since
your Dark Souls II series.
Whenever she wants to listen, she asks me
if the complainy boys have updated.
Keep up the good work.
Complainy boys.
Very well.
Or just a bunch of complainy boys.
Unbridled Rage Video Game Edition.
It's possible it would just have to be
the right circumstances and I have not been playing
very many video games lately.
Rain is starting to melt.
Happy New Year, my fellow Nwokwids.
Happy New Year.
Rags, I have come to love you more and more.
Stop giving me blue balls
and put out more content, you massive.
Also, HiJ Longbone.
Rags, what do you have to say for yourself?
Oh yeah, it's getting worked on.
It is getting worked on.
Working on a video about music
and how it affects scenes.
I'll bring up names like John Williams,
Nubo Yumatsu, Koji Kondo as examples.
I'm a musician, seven instruments.
Like to get your thoughts and Happy New Year.
It's definitely a strong field to talk about
what music does in terms of adding to
like stories and stuff being told, especially in movies.
A lot of people make the criticism
that music tries to tell you how to feel about a scene
and despite it being a gauge of tone,
it can often accentuate, improve,
or meld with the events.
Music can be everything or nothing.
Say what, the music in Lord of the Rings and Star Wars?
Oh, we need those buggers.
We needed them in those films
despite the films themselves being fantastic too.
Music good is my position.
Music sounds great.
Love me some music.
Also, yeah, someone just said, watch out for copyright.
Music is a nightmare to get through copyright.
Oh yeah, music shit.
I think if you remove Titanfall 2's multiplayer,
it's still absolutely worthwhile for the campaign alone.
Happy Tismi Titans. Absolutely.
Titanfall 2's campaign is stellar.
Everyone should play it.
Vinegar, there, I said the N word.
Now J Longbone will melt.
God.
Well, Justice League, it just says JL.
Justice League will melt.
Anna, you forgot to follow us on Twitter
so I can DM you on the documentary premiere and livestream.
I don't have the names attached to these ones
because they're all saved, just the messages,
so I don't know who said that.
But she's pretty responsive on Twitter.
You should be able to get her attention
just with tweets in general.
And she streams regularly, the Jack show.
Hi Wags, another super chat for the brood.
Friends and I are keen for your Skywalker review, E.R.
I believe he's working on it, so give him time.
We shall see these folks.
It's not the destination,
it's the Tisms we had along the way
that makes it all worthwhile.
Thank you all for the many laughs and days of content.
Happy New Year.
Also, you people are shit Nazis.
Oh yeah, well.
We try our worst.
We, yeah, you know, what can you do?
Has your rising success between eFap and your channel
be more tiring or invigorating?
Regardless, I love the content.
Man, I can only come up with a boring answer for that one
and that is that I was pretty motivated
before it got more and more successful
and I am still very motivated, you know?
I guess I'm more motivated now
knowing that there's a lot of people
who are really interested in seeing this stuff,
but I'm certainly not tired, certainly not yet.
It takes a lot, as you may have noticed,
to tire me out on talking about media.
Yeah, that's why we have like eFap seasons.
And how long did we talk about The Last Jedi, jeez.
We still talk about it.
It's still coming up.
It's 2020, we're still talking about how terrible it is.
The point about why we need to know Snoke's backstory,
if you go through all of eFap,
you could probably snip out like 17 times
we've discussed that.
And it's not because we forget that we've talked about it.
It's just because it gets, it comes up again
as a point where it's apparently we need to reaffirm
exactly why it's a problem, which is fine with us.
Because that's the thing about a lot of detractors of ours,
they'll be like, do they watch anything non-mainstream?
It's like, do you know why it's good
to analyze stuff that's mainstream?
Because you'll get a lot of people
being able to understand your points
and they can extrapolate that into other things.
If you've got a topic at hand, for example,
someone wants to tell you about the dangers of,
I don't know, multicultural communism,
it's seleutism, devolutism, just all these different isms.
And they do it from the perspective of Star Wars,
you'll actually get a bunch of people be like,
what are they talking about Star Wars?
All right, I guess I'll check that out.
It just happened to be that I was also super interested
in Star Wars anyway, and Game of Thrones.
Because I'm trying to think of, and Marvel,
those are my three mainstream things I've covered.
But there's plenty of mainstream things
that we don't actually cover at all.
And that people get kind of disappointed that we don't.
Like, does Witcher count as mainstream?
I would say so.
I would say so.
You know, we could have done like two eFaps
all about Witcher, but we haven't
because neither has sold the show.
So, just didn't work out that way.
I mean, I'm not against going around to it too.
It's just that, you know, that sort of thing.
So it was invigorating.
Come on, more like it was A or B.
Well, like I said, I didn't want to make it sound like
it was some kind of crazy updraft.
I've just been very motivated to make work
before and after the success.
But if you were to choose between the two, yes,
it would have been invigorating rather than tiring.
Um, oh yeah, anime, of course.
Me and Rags could be, you know,
doing way more anime stuff, but we just fucking don't
because it's just not the thing
that we have lots of interest in.
Yeah.
Star Trek, that's another sort of more mainstream thing
that is clearly talked about by a lot of channels
that we just don't.
Doctor Who.
Yeah.
Not as mainstream as it used to be, apparently.
Right, especially, certainly not in terms
of critical acclaim.
Like, nobody likes it.
Well, it had 80% from critics, right?
Like, ah, that's crazy.
80% from critics, eight from audiences.
Yeah, like if I wasn't interested in Game of Thrones,
Efab might have kind of skipped it
because you certainly didn't give a fuck, right?
You already saw it because I was like,
hey Rags, look how bad this is.
This is, and this was for...
Game of Thrones.
Yeah.
It was episode three that had to vent.
And then Marvel, you had a passing interest in
that is sort of, it grew a bit
and then it's probably gonna wane a bit now.
I think, I mean, both of ours is gonna wane.
Yeah.
I mean, mine certainly is.
And then Star Wars we were both interested in
from the get-go, so.
Oh yeah.
This is the thing, like, everybody's interested
in something mainstream, I imagine.
That's super duper cool.
Probably didn't hurt.
I know I haven't heard of all the things that I like.
But we've actually got about five minutes over.
I was gonna stop at one o'clock, but it's 1.04.
Would you like to stop there?
I would, yes.
I would like to do that.
Jay Logman said, y'all still read in super chats.
If we were to read all of the overflow,
I think we would be here for another seven hours,
possibly.
Oh my God.
Maybe, I don't know.
Maybe I'm overestimated.
It really depends on the kind of answers
that we end up giving to whatever the questions are.
Because if I read out a whole bunch of Happy New Years,
it would be quite quick.
Yeah, but then someone asked this.
I want you to rate all of the nine girls
from this anime, and they were like,
oh, all right, I just gotta find them.
So, so yeah, some take it, some are longer than others.
Yes, I guess that about wraps us up.
We got, this was 10 hours,
plus the one hour that got cut off.
They'll both be uploaded.
It'll just be part one, part two.
And I think that'll be our sort of,
that's what we'll do moving forward,
because YouTube's being an asshole,
and I don't know why it keeps cutting these streams.
But hopefully it stops doing it as much.
Yes, in terms of the future,
we've got Infinite Crisis part two coming out this weekend,
because these will be uploaded soon on Moolah.
Me and Ragsfree and Metal will be watching
and recording the final two parts,
and they'll be edited during time.
So all of that is coming out is kind of my point.
Ifap Doom is currently in a copyright war,
it's probably gonna lose, because it's Zephyr,
which means I will then re-upload it again.
So have fun with that, folks,
to watch that for the fourth time.
But this version, this new one I'm putting up,
it's heavy on the logo,
and I'm pretty sure there's no way
it'll get hit with a copyright this time.
I don't like to go heavy on the logo,
because I like being able to see the visuals,
but I mean, I would rather it be heavy on the logo
than not at all.
So that's coming out.
Like we said, we've still got six Ifap movies
on top of that that are coming.
I'm working on currently getting two April Fool's videos
ready to go to make sure they aim for April,
and as soon as those are done,
I'm gonna work on a bigger project,
and as soon as I figure out which one it is,
I will probably tell you, folks.
I don't think of what else there is.
So we got the Joker Ifap coming up with Ralph.
We might, I'm not sure we can combo with that one.
There's a video that says that it's a ripoff
of Taxi Driver and King of Comedy.
We could probably pair up with Ralph's one,
because Ralph's might not take that long,
but we'll, I'll put it as a maybe.
Yeah, we'll see.
If I can get him to consider coming on,
we could do like a Razor Fist Diabito one,
the Starship Troopers one with Archon Sargon,
the Mandalorian one with Shad and Fringy.
Ifap is docked full for the next few,
and the next one will be next week, more than likely.
But yeah, other than that,
what else have you got coming out, Rags?
Oh, I'm working on a response to somebody familiar,
but I haven't responded to it in a long time,
because I don't wanna do Mandalorian until I,
we do the Mandalorian Ifap and Mauler and I,
and maybe Fringy, I don't know who else,
at least watch through the episodes again, take notes.
I wanna have all my stuff together for that,
so it won't be too hard to find a lot of issues.
Well, yeah, there's some things that I ship,
that should take too long to do.
Yeah, so hopefully that'll be out soon.
And as for the overflow of super jets,
like I said, we'll either do an Ifap mini,
or I will just keep chipping away at them over time.
So if yours are in this overflow,
they will be gotten to eventually.
I'm not gonna lose them.
They're saved, it'll happen.
And yeah, that about leads us to the end.
Only one I've missed here, it says nine hours,
you're joking, right?
It's actually 10 hours plus another hour, so it's 11.
We came close to our usual cap.
Just about half the day.
Mm-hmm, it has been fun.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for watching.
Thank you for the kind donations.
Oh, of course, I'm trying to collect a lot of memes.
There's a lot coming in.
Obviously, I decided to not have the meme section
this time around in favor of trying to get more
through the overflow, which I think we did a good job of,
but I will try and sort all those out for maybe doing,
we could make that a part of the Ifap mini, eventually.
Yeah, we could do that.
But yeah, that's about it.
So thanks for watching, folks.
We shall see you next time.
See ya later, everybody.
Thanks for sticking around.
Another great, another great stream.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
