yeah when have we ever been professional where do you think we are this is the
professional podcast oh wait I just said that like as I went live so that's
probably people like that's the title now it's like no no no no the standard
for which every podcast should be judged yeah did you like Aquaman weekend
yes I did oh no oh boy here's the thing I talked to Fringy this morning
because he saw it and he was like I hated it and I wanted to like kiss him
because I was like thank you thank you I'm not the only one who thinks this
movie's terrible I can't wait actually since we're doing it right now just say
it right now and I don't reiterate it toward the end of the video I have
written today almost two and a half thousand words first oh geez oh thousand
I thought it was way more than that well no I think I said like fifteen hundred
first keep your story fifteen thousand to me that's why oh god I'm just I'm
thinking the wrong thing 25,000 is what I meant to say holy yeah well my script
is 25 million do you know how long that's gonna be if that's I mean I mean I
genuinely hate this movie to the core of my soul I think everyone that watched
Aquaman and came away with a positive view of it beyond just I thought it was
funny was like lying to themselves oh my like I genuinely spies the film and I
was like on a roll today like since I woke up I was just like I need to knock
this thing out and then I just kept going you're going in a 25k oh I'm
almost done with it I'm probably it's probably gonna lower once I like I said
I don't know about you my ratio is for every 5,000 words I take about half an
hour yeah for me it's like 10,000 is an hour yeah wow that's that's kind of the
same that's the exact same that means you might be making a two to heart that's
like beyond the gist of a review rad that's like an actual fucking breakdown
yeah it's because every single scene has something so fundamentally wrong with it
that it made me want to claw my eyes out the whole time I was watching it and
then I watched it again and all the funniness that I saw from like the first
time I went through because it was hilarious the first time I watched it but
then the second time I just wanted to die internally oh yeah watch it again
yeah because I was because the first time I watched it I was like that sucks
and then I went home and I like looked at all the reviews and everyone was like
this movie's awesome and I was like did I miss something and so I went back
again and I hated it more than I did the first time and then I torrented it to
make sure I was getting everything correct it's like every couple seconds
I'm pausing it and I'm like I hate this I hate this I hate this I hate this I
hate this so hopefully it's a fulfilling life yeah it's gonna be like easily a
two-hour video on Aquaman it's like so I just hate it I hate it so much and then
well I saw a description on Twitter about it it's like either the best worst
movie or the worst best movies someone said it on Twitter I saw it in the feed
it's one of those two people try to figure out yeah you know it's exactly
like it's alike a lot like The Force Awakens you know everyone liked it when
it came out but when you really dig into it it doesn't make any sense at all oh
yeah it's exactly like that and it's like nothing makes sense in this movie
nothing is explained does it rank with the DC you oh not as bad as Suicide
Squad not as bad as Justice League maybe a little I don't know I want to say it's
on par because it's not as insufferable as BVS yeah I wouldn't call it I would
still say Wonder Woman's probably the best and I say best with giant
quotations around them but even then it's like like I wanted I wanted to come
back to YouTube like with a happy video cuz I was working on I was working on
that Lord of the Rings analysis and I was like I want to be positive but this
movie's like driven me up the wall with how much I hate it don't worry your
sadness will bring us joy so yeah and then I make a happy video someone said
Aquaman sucked but I would suck Aquaman to be honest that's yeah I think yeah
that it's a fair assessment Jason Momoa is a pretty attractive man too bad he's
not in anything good ever the first season of Game of Thrones and then he
died even then looking back I feel like they should have kept him for a little
longer yeah make me care about him and Daenerys a bit longer than no he's gone
yeah but uh Aquaman is finding Joroko yes I like it welcome to every frame of
Paul's episode 21 we're here with our special guest Rags hello I was asked to
come back today because you couldn't get enough of me exactly and then our
regular host weekend warriors say hello hello he's so glad to be here yeah I
mean fists have you been able to meet us three right Rags how you feeling well
I've heard a lot about you guys most of it's been pretty awful I've heard that
you guys are really mean and cruel we are and I heard that you guys don't let
anybody have any opinions ever is that an opinion absolutely not no they say
that as a matter of fact oh it's an objective speak smaller Jesus Christ
he's like true yeah let's angle every all weave yeah also this wolf I guess who
yeah the guy I don't know oh hi I don't know him yeah this is new PFP and it's
horrible I hate it yeah yeah well maybe you should zoom it a bit more on fucking
PFP look at all the negative space it's not negative if it's blue and red and it
has sparks behind look at the not positive space that's a regular trust me
I'm gonna say I like the new logo I mean it's cool just yeah I like yours as
well we can more yeah I think it's shit oh yeah this code this guy's
controversial why did why did everyone demand we bring Rags on the fuck guys I
don't understand also everything you love is awful you're effectively wrong
all we do on this podcast is celebrate other videos and now you're ruining it
by bringing in this negativity oh this is a podcast about enjoying other
people's content yes yes celebrate exactly in fact the latest podcast we
did was a positive-ish one it was kind of not that I know cuz I wasn't there as
this is my first guest appearance yes yes of course definitely your first
appearance mm-hmm oh yeah this is this is the roster I am so sorry this is this
is a comment from from the previous one I'm not gonna be able to really talk on
this I think wolf is probably the best person if whoever here knows Harry
Potter better but we made some comments about the whole time turner thing and
we will just like shitting on it and then some guy said as someone who isn't
a fan of Harry Potter I feel I need to defend the time turner or time freeze I
always hear things like why doesn't Harry use it to save his dad kill
Voldemort and it's such a dumb statement Voldemort is alive in the present which
means that any attempt would fail since the time turner does not change the past
it merely wasn't wasn't Harry and Lupin alive in the present too so they could
just it doesn't make sense I will say this I will say this disclaimer I
haven't read the book since I was in elementary school so we're talking like
12 years well either way so I'm going off of the movie we'll get this out for
the people who may have disagreed so they can at least know that we've heard
this so change the past it merely puts someone in the past for five hours
everything a person does in the past has already happened the first time around
that's why in the book Harry is able to cast a Patronus when he needed to do so
he saw himself in the past do it and realized that it had to be him when he
eventually arrives to that situation so the answer so the answer to our comment
is that oh no it's a time paradox I mean from what I understand I think the guy
is saying that like it's all already happened
but yeah what he's saying to my understanding based on how he's phrased
it is that if you go back in time but you can't change anything but the reason
you're going back in time is because of events that only happened because you
went back in time to do them that's an infinite regress that does not have a
beginning it's it's a time paradox yeah some weird loop I don't know I really
think about it longer to figure out the contradictions exactly this is why
generally people go with the alternate timeline stuff or you can change you
know you can change the past and then it splits from there the Terminator
Genesis and we don't want that the guy did say I mean fuck if you're gonna
complain about the plot devices in Harry Potter the fucking potion that turns you
into something else is far more OP and now I think now I think the power to
travel through time is more advantageous than changing your appearance
oh yeah I see them comment on that thing that requires so much you need to
require the hair of the person you want to transform into to make sure that
person you want to transform into isn't around to interfere with you and
then it only lasts for a limited amount of time that's not okay there's a lot of
rules to it I'm trying to think of applications but I can't remember the
rules on it so I'd have to I mean fairness in fairness the last time I
watched Harry Potter was two years ago and I haven't read the books in 12 years
so I my knowledge is probably very limited in this I'm just going purely
off of memory but I think it's just safe to say if you're writing a story
stay away from time travel because it almost always locks things up yes if you
if you're gonna do time travel you have to be very explicit about the rules
where we've created an alternate timeline which is separate from our own
which is why you can have changes that exist and stuff like that the second you
send you know John back in universe a it becomes universe B the second he does
and he's essentially cloned himself into universe B is probably how I would
do it and then everything runs from there onwards and the universe a is just
irrelevant we'll never see that again but then that suggests the time travel
creates alternate universes and I just thought fuck I give up if you're gonna
make time travel I think you need to build your story from the get-go
assuming it so that you don't have to look back and go oh fuck but now this
happens another shit if I may add something there's a new more OP power
that JK Rowling said that Wizards had went to a poop and the poop disappears
what yeah you don't know that she tweeted out something or is this real I don't
understand the poop yeah yeah in the medieval ages what what Wizards did was
the poop and they just vanished poop and she tweeted it I think if I'll find so
someone needs to take away this insane woman's Twitter so instead of like
taking a poo they just snap their fingers and the poo disappears you
something something like that so this is someone I'm reading that right from
websites I don't know if it's like specifically true but I'm assuming it is
on the Pottermore website JK Rowling explains how Wizards poop isn't about
the Chamber of Secrets that says Wizards didn't need because they simply
relieved themselves where they stood and vanished the evidence okay why don't you
just okay why why would you why would you like here you know poop and then
make it go away when you can just make it go away before you poop it out you
should ask JK Rowling how is it that the most basic of concepts you just haven't
given any thought to you just type shit out on Twitter
wizard or wand you can make a pooper moat but I you have to come up with rules
or else you could also say that logic oh I'm gonna make Voldemort's heart
disappear poof and then he dies like we really need to get this woman to help
she needs because oh my god there you go I made the perfect amount sequence yeah
that's insane good for her I guess I thought we should probably mention me
and me and rags actually gested on the state of the YouTube podcast we talked
to um monkey Jones very entertaining for us and hopefully for an audience if you
guys want to check it out we basically give them a quick rundown of episodes
eight nine and ten of efap as well as yeah what what we were discussing was if
wizards can make their poop disappear anyway whatever even bathrooms in hog
works at all why not just sounds like a waste of space and an excess of plumbing
and all the problems that come along with kids kids can't vanish the poop so
it's gonna help them later no that should be what they teach kids when they
come out of the room but what if you miss you once you take a poop at hog yeah
that should be the parent should teach their kids how to mention vanishing
intestine what happens then well you know what evolution that would be a
tragedy well then they'll just they'll just make them new intestines with their
magic some rough stuff oh now Rob has evolved it so you shoot the poop and it
isn't to a ghost
so would you like to jump into the first of our meme videos folks now let's
talk about wizards pooping endlessly fascinating subject I mean guess the
point we are just like I hope nobody clips that and then says this is what
he faps about that would be embarrassing oh I like this one if you
frame a poo that disappear there we go frame a potter so yeah there you go
everything's right right I'm assuming that yeah okay let's get the volume up
yeah this one's called subjectivity slayer arrives at Quinton's channel I
think this is by actually let's find it's probably good if I actually say
who made them you know that would be a good start so it's a man gameplay who I
believe made the other one we're showing today as well I shall pop is which other
one new yes they're just small separations I think it looks snazzy he
hates it clearly the guest is complaining oh my god I'm noticing it
that it's no I was I was wondering what you were talking about I was like purple
lines were you oh how does everyone feel about the neon purple I hate it oh no
actually regular I like it let me see the regulars are okay with it yeah
that's that's all that matters zero out of ten not gay enough okay um let's
let's check it out yeah all right good yeah your response theory shut up
that's the way to open
he embarrasses me every day he makes us all look like backwards idiots and
frankly the sword though I love that it's really good I really like that it's
really well edited like some of these get to the point which like woof that's
the sword of Genesis right there yeah there's like a profile for that now an
explanation this probably totally makes sense to you right we can worry yes like
every part of it all of the references in the means oh this is the one yeah so
this is again fucking I just realized by a man gameplay as well it's just our
official mirror all right this video on Dark Souls is my opinion yeah
you know before we go on to the next race before we go on to the next meme I
was talking just a little about my my script for the Aquaman video and I found
myself well yeah I'm waiting for the relevance rags we'll get there I'm sure
well well I noticed like two or three times I accidentally just unconsciously
put in they did it okay they wait they the way they did it as a joke it was I
wasn't even thinking of Jared and then I like started rereading it and I was like
oh my god I just put three Jared references in this actually yeah well
if you're like the only person who messaged me about the the fact that I
used that in the monkey podcast like deliberately they did owning rags
countercord it live but I think nobody commented on it even I was like oh man
that that's I did see like one or two people comment about it oh did they I
did have a look yeah but um I'm using things of course this one's probably
gonna I'm gonna have to pause it because we got we got some full-on movie stuff
here the next two of that this is by anomaly Inc and it's a oh the smiley guy
this is actually that songs from GTA right aren't my crazy yeah sure it's not
copyrighted respect earned Jared Jared
so for anybody this is like there are themes to explain with this one okay so
the idea is that John Connor is Jared and John Connor just heard wolf calling
for him as in jars just who'd whoa oh say is this at the end of the movie where
Sarah Connor I got you oh so wolfs trying to help Jared Jared
like a lowly Jared is like well Jared Jared just the Whittier logo
fuck no bitch
it was quid said I've seen too many excellent movies and shows to just bend
over and take Hollywood's dick in my ass for whatever garbage and shit out
the public fuck Ryan Johnson fuck Disney and more importantly fuck the last Jedi
damn wolf ran out of fucking comments for the lost Jedi huh I wish that he took the
last part out and like replace the last Jedi with Quentin what these movies can
do at this point is so limited that there's just nothing interesting or
anymore goddamn it hello there ladies and gentlemen his opinions are objective
because fuck you I like the idea that I saved Jared's life Jared is your son in
this country
yeah from from like a few things oh that's like from a lot of media reloaded
I did like I watch these really terrible movies called Alpha Omega where
they constantly broke the laws of physics like repeatedly in every film
and so I just seen wolf yeah that was the fame and I hated that theme so I kept
like autistically screeching physics and people just liked it so I kept doing
it
to much time I think the reaction and response to the Jedi no it's quite
frankly embarrassing some people really like Fallout 3 and they seem to be the
specific type of people who is he clicking a dislike is it do you
recognize that beautiful face right god that's what he looks like
his terrible face beautiful man or objectively stupid people like
Fallout 3 like using the word objectively is just it's tough to use
that word in regards to art right the Last Jedi is a story about men
you couldn't couldn't find a picture a good old Johnny yeah well there's some
people who don't even know that he is Jonathan McIntosh right like a lot of
people assume he's just pops culture detective like a separate thing which
by the way I think he probably did deliberately well I think so too he had
to get away quite the negative press yeah it doesn't shock me too much he is
well he does sound like a transgender woman well I thought through detective
does he put that I always thought you just put it on you that I think the last
Jedi he's always gonna talk like that really I hate this logo by the way what
just rights yeah it looks like a little squid a cartoon yeah the J and a W it's
oh it looks like a sperm that's been working out it's got three little it's
got three bucks got a couple propellers to help in my subjective opinion the
last thing oh yeah yeah cuz that's yeah and then we only have one left which I'm
hoping none of you have seen cuz it's like people are hailing is like the best
one yet which is tough competition is better than the Infinity War one because
that one's gonna be pretty amazing so just from the name of it have you seen
this I know but I like that I'm air Gordon yeah I'm theater I can't remember
who rags is I know oh that's fine I'm sure I'm sure I'll be great you'll be
gimli I'll probably gimli okay oh wait no fringies gimli I it'll be interesting
we'll go I'm gonna have to pull the whole boat my god oh my god I'm not gonna
say it but I think I know who Gandalf is gonna be oh yeah well you know what is
there I don't know if any of you guys know but like you know I'm like masking
things on to shit that's not like frame by frame is it or do they find a way to
actually do it in there I know there's a method I've never had a need to do it
so but I know that there is a easier way frame by frame thing which is take
fucking ages for you fab
wait is rags legolas oh my god is gonna be
sure it's gonna save us
yes the horn of Helm hammer hand shall sound in the deep man I love this movie
by the way just one smaller thing one last time have you know some people have
used the the backwards version of my head is just the blacked-out
subvert my expectation
one of the random nights I don't know if legolas is in this charge you know
that's it because he's got a bow I'm pretty sure the flowing long blonde block
oh right yeah comes in with Gandalf I was wrong yeah
that's like the dramatic side dramatization of fucking the efap as a
podcast reader response here I like that free you can just like perfectly
recreate your voice
very talented
Oh God.
Oh God!
Yes!
Jared Genesis guitar.
But he was someone that, you know, I would definitely have a beer with
Who is e-man game? Oh, okay. Yes. Okay
Like majority people from the discord, which is what I found I just say about
Fuck who wrote this
Is
This is beautiful
Oh
Anyways guys
I don't know if it quite beats that infinity war one. That one's hard to beat but
That one was good. These are over 10. No subscribe to jared genesis at the end. Oh
Too bad too bad
Yeah, wow, I mean you never know what to expect this sort of thing
You just that was really great though
And so there are another like a million of these and we'll try and get between three and four each episode
Is the best I can offer but i'll still every time I still get recommended a ton of them
And every time I see what i'm just like don't watch it. Don't watch it. We'll do all of our election. Don't watch it
Before we go on should we talk about jared and what's
Happening with him. So you put out a video saying he's up for refap and then we were like cool
But you know
It'll have to be the one after this one because weekend warriors coming on and he got very offended
He said that he should have like special position
And then we were like that's how it works though because everybody gets scheduled in and then he was like
I don't want to come on anymore because
He said he said some I can't remember like anything anything that he
To to me. I don't think it was mostly here. Here's the thing in the span of two days
He made a video saying he was ready to come on then the next one was
He's not ready to come on and then another one was
Making like shitting on us for not bringing him on immediately
I have a suspicion
That any day now he's going to nuke his channel again because he's going through his like crazy phase where he loses his mind
again
and
He's nearing a thousand as well
I think a thousand is where he doesn't like to beat a thousand subscribers from what I understand. He doesn't like to be
In a position where he has
Didn't he say something like he never wants to be in a position where he has a bunch of people subscribing or something?
Yeah, it's really strange with jared his he changes from day to day. He's kind of like smiegel in that respect
He just like he's got like two different personalities. Someone's gonna be making that down
Oh my god, yeah that scene when frodo and sam are sleeping and he's like arguing with himself
We just needed jared jennis's rendition of like yeah his videos where he's saying you'll come on efap
But they're the ones where he's like no
Uh, that'd be funny
Yeah, just uh, let's let's just uh be nice to jared. He's going through
I don't know what he's going through. I don't understand jared most of the time. He's just
He's an enigma, but he's you know, always welcome to step time to come on and uh
But we're we're we're cool with him. We love the memes
absolutely
Good old jerry. So
This podcast is actually going to be about
Someone named downward thrust we haven't covered since episode one. I think
maybe three
It's been a while it has been a while unlike this could very well be
Depending on how this goes an all downward thrust episode outside of the memes. How exciting is that because he's
Wonderfully
He's someone who makes short videos because you know, he's concise. He's to the point
He doesn't waste time with people making hour-long intros wolf
Idiot brevity is the soul of wit brevity is the spirit of the soul. You're right
And the last thing is the downs of the word
so
Our first video from him is an older one, but we're gonna have like a theme here
Can I can I call a timeout? I gotta use the bathroom go for it
Help me back. Well, well if he's going
I guess I better go to go for it wolf. Do you need to pee too?
No in the meantime, um, someone asked what about uh, colonial marines? Do you have like a
Probably the next one we'll probably you know after this one if rags and you're still around we'll set up a time
I think we can right like uh, yeah, but what then there's the uh
The uh, oh, yeah, there's another there's a video coming out about me
Maybe about efap as well. Yeah from arokaxon and we've been told it's coming out within the next few days
So do you think like if do you think if it comes out next week?
We'll just do that. And if it doesn't we'll do colonial marines then get to it. Yeah, I think that makes sense
Okay, speaking of which um next week. I have friday off, but I do not have saturday off
All right. Hopefully we can do a friday one then robin. What good are you? Yeah. Yeah, i'm sorry
My boss is my boss is an idiot. He doesn't be your own boss. I wish I could be
um
Wait, did you did you pee in that amount of time right?
Oh, no, I haven't left. Oh
Because you were talking and I wanted to you know, I wanted to hear the stuff that you
Were talking about, you know, he's a dog. He has that little mat next to his computer. Oh
No, I didn't have to go very far. Yeah, I have to go outside because i'm not gonna
poop or pee where I sleep and eat like a barbarian
Don't you have your like your pc you use and then pc you pee on isn't that how that works?
Hello, I don't pee on my pc sometimes though. So I have air cooling. I don't have to piss on it
Wouldn't piss be hot anyway
But it wouldn't cool it
So, um, maybe you want to go pee
Yeah, okay
I'm gonna read just a few super chats while he's gone
So aquaman is terrible, but I love it. I think wolf would be on board with that statement
Wolf whenever you new pfp who made it
Wait, what was the first question I forgot
Well the first one was the first comment
Aquaman is terrible, but I love it
Oh, well, you're allowed to love it
As long as you accept that it's terrible said you're allowed to there you go
Yeah, you're allowed to as long as you know, it's bad, but thanks for allowing me wolf
You're a good man
Uh wolf. I love your new pfp who made it
Oh, uh, that's snapbacks. He did all my previous channel art
Um, I don't know what his deviantart is. I keep forgetting to ask him but his twitter
Uh handle is at snap underscore your underscore back
Oh, there you go. So there you go. Um more. I'll be careful. I heard rags. It's a profile picture
Oh
Yeah with the times dude
Come on. You don't know what a pimp is been on this podcast for 20 episodes and you still haven't figured that out yet
I don't know the youtube lingo
as the cool kids call it
um
I'm all to be careful. I heard rags and wolf have the big gay. That's okay. I got I got shielding
Look, we don't have the we only have the half gay
Uh just got married and I wish I could watch the stream, but i'm at lunch
Can't wait to see the vaudelator have a good stream rhino milk forever. Well, congratulations
Is he is he watching?
Like just after the marriage ceremony. I think I just got married
I hope he refers to like a week ago or yesterday
Like if he just got married and then went to get some food and got on his phone and said like i'll donate to efap
Fair enough
Oh, man
Yeah, uh, I hope you have a fantastic marriage and enjoy the stream when you get around to it
Thank you very much. Um kept us waiting her from the implied fly. That's oh, yeah
Good shit aquaman sucks at least at least a nail girl. Let you go
Oh wait, we read that one because I hate myself, but I love you guys from akiba voorhees with 99 99
Very very very generous, sir
What you couldn't just add in that one extra cent you cheapskate
Dude, dude, you say that he's gonna fuck you up
He's like well, i'll take i'll take your cheapness on my channel when I get done with my videos
So if you want to come over to my channel and donate your cheapness
Do you want to and i'll take it and I won't complain like some people around here want to hype up the
Hype up the return. Do you want to say what it is?
Um, i'm gonna try to get it done this weekend. That's kind of what I told my discord
I'm gonna try to this weekend folks try to get it done this weekend. It's saturday, right?
Yes, it is
I mean time is relative
I mean relative to earth
So so I I prefer that's what i'm going for here. You guys gonna watch the warsky versus tonka fight since no
Since you guys mentioned the nostalgia critic you see metaka's video on him. How do you guys rationalize objectivity and art yet? Not in ethics
Not in ethics. Those are two different things. I mean, how do you how would you objectively measure?
What is ethical if you don't just have I mean you can do that
If you if you start with the standard as in you adhere to a standard irrelevant of how you feel about the specific topic
Yeah, I guess it would depend on the question. I just don't really
Never murder and then you're in a position where you're like they killed all my family. It's right to murder them
You'd be like well now you're not being very very consistent
But I mean that's a complicated question anyway
like the objective ethics
Um, yeah, I guess I wouldn't be like objectively a good thing to murder for murder
But I mean that's a little bit. I don't think there is
objective morals
Because um, I don't know that's a really complicated subject
Efap is not prepared to have because we're just like hey media, right media
But uh fair question
Maybe we'll cover that in the whole efap episode one day. We'll bring in uh, we're bringing a fils officer of some kind
That they can ask the questions also as for war skirt wasky and tonka
I don't actually know who tonka is
But um, I only vaguely know war ski anyway, so I have no idea what that really even is
uh, and then nostalgic critic i've seen metaka's video on nostalgic critic, but I don't um
You know, it's just man. I I I knew most of the stuff that he mentioned
um
Weekend warrior. I don't know more this guy knows efap. He's been here the whole time
Also wolf, what do you think about me getting 100 percent?
107 percent on my physics physics physics exam
How do you get 107 percent? Doesn't that break the laws of physics extra credit?
Goddamn, he got it
He broke the laws of physics on a physics exam
That's insane
I can't believe this
Uh, very good
Hey molar if wolf and rags had rhino milking powers and three of you were stranded on an island or something and you had to
Milk one for sustenance and the others for recreation who?
But we're not rhinos who's used for what?
milk for recreation
I'm into recreational. Uh, rhino movie that ends with him saying justify your milkings
Um, let me say that one more time
It would just be whoever's whoever's full up, you know, get them get them drained out a bit
Don't don't stress any one of them too much. That's the important thing. Make sure everyone's happy. Well fed
uncomfortable
balance
Found out you're well smaller. You have surprisingly good taste for a subhuman beautiful. Harry Potter was a mistake jk rolling
Oh, did you shoot up a school with monkey monkey?
Don't you know that you're not allowed to say stuff like that now?
You'll get you banned to talk even to make fun of evil or fucking people doing horrible things
That's like, you know punishable by did you guys see the other videos circulating from monkey by the way?
I have not yet. Oh, no, that's jungle jimmy. Oh, right. Yeah jungle jimmy
Who's this monkey guy? He like just breaks down all of the strikes and why they're bullshit and then
Some other stuff but like obviously he's trying to get other youtubers to sort of re-upload it on their channels to spread the message and stuff
Yeah, cuz I think they could just take it down. Yeah
Uh ripply from aliens and sarah connoisseur two don't count as strong female characters because they're too masculine checkmate atheist sexist
I mean i've heard people actually make that argument and um, I don't don't really understand because uh, they both
You know the idea that it's like oh you don't like you only like the female characters that don't have anything about them
that's intrinsically female
like
Wouldn't you argue that ripply is a has the mother angle in aliens that's inherently a uh,
A female yeah, I would say so. Yeah
same for sarah connor by the way, she's
All about protecting john connor to the point where she's isolated a relationship from him
She's just a bodyguard and that's what he kind of hates imagine thinking sarah connor of all people is not a strong female character
well
You know, they can't let us win. So if we recognize that she's a good one
They're like, oh shit. We're gonna have to let her go. We have to sacrifice it for the cause
Damn it
Uh, we can't keep getting away with this. I'm not sure what they're referencing
But well, it's breaking bad, but I don't want part of us. We're doing charad's efap update video legit broke my heart. I'm so sorry
Wizards poop disappearing. He's a heartbreaker that jared. He's a heartbreaker
He really is. Um, we'll just have to hope that as time goes on it'll be okay
Quinton the next efap
Could you imagine quinton on efap? Oh, man?
He wouldn't do it
What if what if he what would you guys say if he said he'll come on if he doesn't if he doesn't have to answer
Any questions relating to any kind of preview anything previous it has to be i'd say fuck no
I'd probably be like if that's the only way to get a bond I would but we would we would totally play with it
Like keep making references to stuff in videos that we're covering like man
Isn't it awful when people just take stuff out of context? What do you think about that quinton?
It just seems like
We just have to like plan it out in case people don't know he's blocked me in rags and uh,
I think you'd rather pretend the efap doesn't exist
I prefer jojo's bizarre adventure time powers pausing time fast forwarding time skipping 10 seconds ahead being the only one with foresight agency
10 out of 10. I have not seen it. Have you guys seen that?
Seen what jojo's bizarre adventure?
I have it's enjoyable. There's some time travel
Time travel no, there's time fucking powers, but not time travel
Oh, wait, wait spoilers at some point there. There is going to be some sort of time thing
I'm confused. How do you have time powers but not time travel?
Yeah, but that's like jojo is like eight parts
Okay, I think ten now and each part has a different jojo
That that has a different villain doing different things like now the main villain has
How
The main villain spowers is just that it works if I mean shoutouts to the guy that
shoutouts to the guys that know what that means, but yeah, it just works if you
I mean, this is totally great
Yeah, yeah, it just it just works. Yeah, no, it's it's hot towered
Yeah, nothing
He's telling me sweet little lies. It's all broken. So it's a kick v. I'm so sorry
Got that I got the reference we will we will pause for them
Do you would you guys like to tackle one of downward thrust older videos?
In fact, this is one of his one of his classics. Um, sure. I love a good classic
We're huge fans of downward thrust on this channel. Just want to make that clear
I'm not setting up a notepad here in reference for when i'm going to write down things. He says that are hilarious
That's not what i'm doing
This is just for posterity. I like to frame his quotes because they're very inspirational
Is everyone ready?
Yes
All right, just wolf is ready. We can't really continue if only half of you guys are ready
Uh, it's like we're just clicking the little box in the corner of the screen saying ready to party up
And there's always that one guy
Oh man, I hate it. All right, break down episode six. We got five episodes we skipped over
Well, let's go get episode one
We don't understand the breakdown episode more than we might get references
I'm glad i'm glad that uh, good old tone loke stopped calling himself an intellectual. That's
That's what oh god the intellectual gaming community. I didn't realize that
What the intellectual gaming community about uh, fuck keep me away. Keep me away from that. I don't want to be part of that. Come on
I don't want to be an intellectual. Fuck that. I want to have fun. Enjoy my life. We're only like five seconds in baby
Intellectual
Like community i'm gonna say that i'm a part of that
Collectual gaming community i'll say that i'll be getting a fucking gedel. I'll say
Like, uh, what would you say like start it founded by tone loke i'll say that
Founded by tone loke
You need to get that guy who does all those sketches to like sketch his face
So that you can like have it unlike have it have it fade in from the background and then you can like in cursive
Have it fade in founded by tone loke
Well, you you heard him i'm assuming that they watch this podcast well, they'll be watching this one
So I will totally put that in if that ends up on my twitter
Hey everyone, i'm gonna go back
You're fearlessly your tone loke
Wait, wait, that's his real name
Well, it's his well, it's his screen name if you will we're pretty worse
We're pretty certain his actual his first name is actually tony
Loke is also probably short for something
His real name is tony loki, but he uh, like no no wonder he wanted to change his name
I mean if you're gonna make a name, why don't you make it sound cool like
It's kind of like when uh, what a cool enough name
I think maybe like mundane matt. That's the worst name you could make for your own line persona, right?
it's kind of like um
Wings of redemption. His real name is richard, but he hates it. So he calls himself jordy jordan
I think he had a better name to start with
And when every when everyone in the chat types in hey richard, how's it going? He's like chat bantam bantam
Shout out sean ranklin
Hey everyone, welcome to episode six of breakdown
It's your fearless leader tone lope coming at you with another interesting video
With the reason would you actually define your own video is interesting?
Yeah, it's your fearless leader tone loke and all the girls in the audience still
It's the tone loke
Woke
Interesting video
With the recent hd remake of final fantasy 10 on steam
I had a chance to go back to one of my favorite game franchises of all time
My favorite game series and autobiography based off of me your fearless leader tone loke
That one plays games based on after playing it for about 20 to 30 hours
It's difficult for me to say that I actually enjoyed my time with it
Playing old games or remakes. This this game about punching people is actually uh, it's a story about my real life
The real life of tone loke your fearless leader. Which one's he the big guy the tiny guy? Oh, he's the guy who wins
Oh
Made me quickly realize that games have evolved so much the fidelity the smoothness mechanics and more importantly the pay
Napier the fidelity the smoothness mechanics
Just
So better it's I wonder what snap year means I guess more responsive someone said go tone go broke
Maybe he likes tans and that's why he calls himself tone loke
The thing is like all of those words could just be like what do you even mean by idea much the fidelity?
I'm assuming by fidelity. He's talking about graphic graphic. Yeah, the smooth graphics fidelity
What is the smoothness referring to anti-avism maybe animation frame
I don't know you can oh someone suggested themes. He might be talking about the smoothness of the themes
Maybe but he's talking about fps a lot of old games had really good fps and a lot of modern games have shit fps
That's your because making things attempt to look pretty is more important than enjoying your experience. I'm, sorry is your name tone loke
How can you speak with authority on this? Are you a part of the intellectual game?
I am the i'm they're gonna be a coup against the fearless leader
Someone said the very similitude of modern games
You could just feel the thesaurus
fearless intellectual fidelity
To be fair the first tab in my bookmarks is the thesaurus
But it's just so that I don't use the same word over and over
Yeah, but with uh good old tone loke, it's because he has a very limited vocabulary and he's just like this sounds good
Yeah, it's like I need to it's like I could say that this is big but instead I want to say that it's
uh
colossal
Huge ball
Okay
ponderous
minuscule tiny
Canx and more importantly the pacing and design of games themselves
Games are so much snappy the pacing and design of games themselves. Can you just cut all that out and say the design of games themselves
Pacing is a little bit different from design pacing
Wouldn't it come out? Couldn't everything come under design?
Unless it's a bug and it wasn't well ended. Yeah. Yeah if it was um
Also, what do these clips have to do with what he's saying?
Wait, this is this is tone the god loke we're talking about here. He's going to be having things you won't understand
Ah the og
Pookie for us. Yeah, original god more importantly the pacing and design of games themselves
Games are so much. Where did you get that from? It wasn't in her hand. Is that gonna go?
Wait, what the oh the syringe so much the syringe
Yeah, the syringe that she pulled out and stabbed the character with like an american thing. Isn't it syringe?
Sid i've never heard it pronounced syringe. It's syringe syringe
Well, it's kind of like when you were saying it's a scissors and everyone was like, what are you talking about? Look, that's not incorrect
well
No, it doesn't that way though
Yeah, well, it's not correct. They need to get with the old times. That's me og rags
Talking about scissors like the good old days. How do you pronounce scissors?
Scissors scissors. Yeah scissors
Yeah, well it wasn't the contention that it was like but he said he said a scissors
Okay. Listen, we can have this discussion again. I don't fucking care
The point is that if I take my pants and I cut them down the middle
I don't have do I have a pant and then another pant and I put together and they become pants or do I have?
No pants you have two halves of pants. You have two halves of a pair of pants
Two halves so you have a pant
If that's why I pair of pants the pant is the leg but they're connected at the top isn't pants like
Short for like so now if you have two pairs of pants
You say I have a pair of a pair of pants. So if you have two matching
Pants, you can't say a pair of pants because that's just one
You say you have two pairs of pants
But you could all but what if they match and you want it and you want to signify that they match you say
I have a pair of a pair of pants. No, you have two matching pairs of pants two pairs. Yes
Two matching pairs of pants. Well, that's kind of redundant to say a matching pair
Well, you just said you wanted to let people know that they're matching
Oh, yeah, so you say a pair
No, you have two pairs of pairs of pants. No, you say two matching pairs pants two matching pairs
What the fuck are you talking about?
And if you take scissors and you break them apart you have a scissor and another scissor
No, you have a scissor blade you put them together and connect them and then it's because a scissors
No, people would say you have definitely you have two pairs of scissor blades
You don't say a scissors. No one says a scissors. It's a pair of scissors
Because I learned it from a charlie brown comic
Well charlie brown's like charlie brown tries his best
I say pass the scissors not pass the pair of scissors. However, I understand that's probably growing up. Yeah, correct
No, no pass the scissors is still grammatically correct
But a scissors is the thing that rag said it that's no one says that I probably say that too casually
Yeah, but i'd still be i'd happily consider it'd be wrong. I wouldn't care. It's more like a slang thing
Well, yeah, sure. It doesn't matter if you say it's just it's wrong. So, um
You guys don't watch like a video
No, no
Fuck movies tone. Look is not being given these are really needs. Okay
Okay, the elevator music back on playing
What is this punch up punch something right on the nest?
Punch out. Is that it?
Because you can have one fist and another fist and that makes fists
But you can't have a fists apparently
Hands are implied even though fists are connected
No, they're not. Yes, they are
Fists. Yes. Fists are connected every part of your body's connected wolf. Well, yeah, sure, but not the
I'm right. You're wrong. Got it
I'm right. You're wrong. No, no
Okay, my two thumbs are not attached to each other just like my two
Yeah, if you want to look at everything from the
Broxing of every single limb is technically still attached to your
No, they pull
My toe is connected themselves. Thumb bones connected to your hand bone. Your hand bones connected to your
Arm bone and your arm bones connected to your
What
So, okay, i'm gonna hit the play button
And i'm just gonna hit the play button. Let's get back to tone time with it
Playing old games or remakes made me quickly realize that games have evolved so much
The fidelity the smoothness mechanics and more importantly the imagination and design of games themselves
Well, you guys are like a good whole seconds ahead of me
So much snappier and easier to get into now and it makes me rethink the way I view older games and their relevancy
Let's talk about two quick reasons. Why this is the case with our first talking point
Games are developed for their current generation
We're building this game for the future
These games are built for the current generation. Why would you know that?
I was building it for the past so that the people in the 1970s could play
Don't even what what a strange main statement is that?
Totally it's okay to say that games are the product of their time. Yeah, that's
That's a more interesting statement in that you're implying that
Things were decisions were made based on maybe values or standards at the time, but to say
The games were made for what do you say? The agenda? Hang on. Let me let me let me play it again for their
current generation and market
Quick reasons why this is the case with our first talking point games are developed for their current generation and market
Maybe he's going to say something more interesting
Someone did mention that crisis was unironically for the future and that is true
Technically, oh you mean because of the way it runs oh, yeah because
Yeah, because what
Go on go on because because of the technical aspect
So like couldn't that be a criticism of its optimization though?
uh, no because the well
Sort of it depends. Um
But mostly it really is just that that kind of hardware wasn't really widely available at that time
so it was kind of uh
You can develop things speculating about the mark the future market
Yeah, that I mean, I think uh people have a point when they say, you know crisis was kind of
made in mind for when
Pete that kind of tech is why would anyone deliberately make a game that can't be
Specifically well, we're talking generation. We're talking about crytek here. They don't make good business decisions
I was about to say like is this just out of that big idiots?
Why would they?
Crisis is an arcade and I think that arcade games especially they tend to last
In a way that like console games pc games don't always at least
Because you sort of just sell it and it's always going to be because when you buy an arcade machine
It's pay. It's basically investing wait arcade machine
Yeah, what are we talking about here? Time?
We're talking about normal crisis like cry sis. Oh, I thought you said time crisis. Yeah. No, you know
I'm talking about the game crisis, you know, but I thought you made like I thought you made a good point
I mean
Well, the one the one benefit that came for them was the idea that like crisis was almost a benchmark for people
So it gets starts getting used just to see if your computer can run it, which is like probably good for marketing
um
But if that was the reason it wouldn't be
Because they were building a game for future generations. Like I wouldn't call that it would be because of the marketing aspect
Well, yeah, it will. Yeah, again, this is partly due because cry tech is not a very smart company
Well depends did how well did it do that? Uh
The first crisis did pretty well, I think a crisis too. I think
I don't know. Maybe it was a smart decision
So even though I misunderstood you I actually think it raises an interesting point
because time crisis is an arcade game and
When you sell an arcade game to somebody to set up in their arcade or their store or pizza par or whatever
It's essentially an investment for the future
Because you hope to get your money back eventually for what you paid for the arcade machine. So that would be
Essentially making a game with the future in mind because you're selling an investment
Would not just be sort of like staying power though. You just want the game to be played
Extensive. Well, yeah, that's how you get your money back
Yeah, a quarter quarters and quarters and quarters would still be created for the current generation though
Because the generations a long time and the current market could I don't know. Um, I would say that
We totally the difference between xbox and xbox 360, right? That's a generation
Which is what
Five years have on average. I need someone in chat to probably clarify that what is the average amount of time
It takes for a new generation of games to come out all consoles
Um, I can take a look average
console probably 10 years
Because you got it's probably speeding up right because i'm pretty sure there's been rumblings about a ps5
yeah, yeah, i've seen that too
the
The average number of days in a console life cycle is
Loads of five years five to seven five to eight eight five to six five six to
Eight six seven five. Well
This this console generation has been kind of weird since there's like numerous models
Yeah, I think much
It's not even just that it's like they imply that you should be picking up like, you know, like ps2 ps2 slim
it was very much like
But then you have xbox one xbox one s xbox one x
The the answer for the average is five point zero four years
so five years
Well a little more but yeah pretty close
Well, I was close to that. I suppose in my guess five years is about uh
About right about five years. So if you were to create a game
You and you want it to last for five years you would be making it for the current generation
I suppose even though that's kind of interesting to think about now as well if you think about the idea
That's like look at all the games that are considered timeless. What's what's a game you guys consider timeless?
Resident evil four
I just started
Uh entrance pack man
Probably quake as well time crisis. I guess we need more clarification on what
Timeless means isn't it because like if it doesn't mean it's timeless if the graphics don't change it's more about the gameplay, I guess
Tetris I also have a question
Go for I have a question
What does tone look mean by relevant like the do people play it or is it relevant to how games are being made?
Well, here's the thing tone looks got a little bit of an issue with relevance
He's been struggling to get relevant again for quite a while now. I mean
You could just go on the way of saying tone look doesn't tend to have definitions for words. He just uses them
That's fine didn't have to turn it into a personal attack
We've been over this before the podcast we sat down with you and we and we said no more
He said no more more tone. Look, I forgot
Such a meanie head dude have a short term memory loss whenever we start talking about good old tony
We said get loke go broke
This full name is tonaled. Okay, it's ronald but tone tonaled tonaled
Total trump local old local
With our first talking point games are developed for their current generation by the market
Developers make games according to what's called market research and demographics who is buying my game?
How old are they and what are their respective gaming preferences and gaming patterns?
If I know this I can reduce my overhead and my costs by streamlining the development process is streamlining
The development process
Well streamlining streamlining what it does is while you're developing the video game that keeps away the scurvy
I knew it. I knew it. That was my theory
Costs by streamlining the development process and focus on what the player actually wants out of my game
I'm so glad that we had that clip of that green haired lady walking around in the desert. I mean
Focusing on what the player wants from the game. It's like yes
God yeah, I forgot how like nothing in a downward thrust video like the footage has nothing to do with what's happening in the conversation
Well, well wait wait
I think what he's saying now is kind of relevant with battlefield five
Well, let's let's back up just a little minute to green haired desert lady. Was battlefield five streamlined though
No, no, I mean what he's saying like what what the audiences want, right?
And I don't think that battlefield five was what audiences wanted
Oh
I have heard from several people. I don't I don't know anything about this
I haven't played the game that the game's marketing was fucked up, but the game itself isn't actually all that bad
I've heard that the market is bad. Um
but
battlefield five
I've heard it's
Is a game but I don't I shouldn't have to look at a battlefield game and and in here that it's okay
You know like that didn't used to be a thing
And fun fact, um battlefield hardline has sold more than battlefield five. Oh, yeah. I saw that. Yeah, uh
Hardline's like
1.5 and battlefield five got 1.4
It's not a good look that moment when dice makes a cops and robbers game that sells more than a world war two
That was visceral well
That was the last game. Oh, yeah, that's what like killed visceral, right?
well
Nugs, ea is the one that killed. Oh sure, but I mean after that they would they they lost even
For people who don't like dead space
Man, I like why did the company die?
Tone talk about dead space
Teamlining the development process that'll focus on what the player actually wants out of my game
Preferences of certain games change over time and can become skewed with the introduction of competition of new technology
That's a sentence so player preferences change over time and they can become skewed with the introduction of new technology
Keys to what player preferences can be skewed with new technology. I don't think I disagree. I just like an example
like maybe
Maybe yeah, like a game could be like we should do it in vr and then a bunch of people like we don't give a show
about vio
Or maybe new technology will open up and introduce new preferences to the market that weren't there before interesting good point tone
Yeah, yeah, sure. That's it was oddly worded, but I think we were able to translate what you mean
Titian of new technology also people get older as time flies by their needs and their wants change and we can see
Wait, wait, wait time
Is he trying to complicate the sentence?
People get older as time goes by let's see. Yeah people get older as time passes
crazy younger
I never thought that was a thing
Why is he trying to over complicate the sentence?
Wait, let me hear the whole thing actually because i'm assuming you guys are slightly ahead
We'll get older as time flies by
Their needs and their wants change and we can see this if we just look into a telescope back in the time
Look at the look into a telescope back
What look into a telescope back? I don't think that's what telescopes do
To the time hold up we're gonna give this one more go here the evolution of final fantasy and call of duty
Let me let me click i'm imagining that scene from the third
Pirates of the caribbean movie where jack sparrow gets the bigger telescope
Only i'm thinking of tone loke doing it
See this if we just look back in the telescope back in the time
Look at the evolution of final fantasy and call of duty. Why would he say telescope?
That's such a strange thing to say because it was because the old time was a long way away
History books history books have really small font and he really needs that telescope to read
Look, no, that's a microscope. That's a microscope
Telescope
Hey, I mean, maybe the microscope's not big enough. We need something a little bit stronger. I'm getting telescope milk. He takes it to the
I would like to use your time telescope. They're like we don't have those
I agree
Gameplay is shifted towards linearity simplicity and accessibility. Oh, shut up
You made a video about why you that people don't make enough linear video games anymore. Yeah
He was in favor of linearity
Um, well, I don't know what he's in favor of because he changes his opinion every other that's true for gameplay depth
What about the unfortunate demise of the adventure platform genre or the decelerated popularity of tactical strategy games over the years?
all victims
um
How call duties are not an example for that it's kind of been the same thing forever
I mean, I I don't I don't feel like it's a good example for things becoming
simpler
When I think it's pretty much agreed that call of duty games have become more complicated
Not necessarily for their own benefit, but I mean if you go back to call of duty four
You can clearly see that it was it was a simpler game
One of the reasons it was better, but
You know, there you go
Of changing consumer demise of the adventure platform genre or the decelerated popularity of tactical strategy games over
I don't know. He was playing a he was playing a
Tomb Raider game earlier. I think the adventure platformer is your photo is decelerated
It's strange
Yeah, that's what I mean. He's I think he's trying to sound smart
No
Don't don't do that. Don't it's also this this frame here with this chick. Is that a sword in that pouch?
Yeah, I think yeah, that's lightning
Yeah, why would you carry a sword down there where it's beaten against the back of your legs every step because it's cool rags
It's hard. It don't ask about it. It looks cool. It's a comforting tap
There's there's there's more than one person who said about how this entails because you can't look into
Little see light that hasn't traveled that far yet. I mean technically
Technically you are seeing different times, but we all know that that's more you're looking at a snapshot
It's not currently existing that way
That and we also know that tone look isn't smart enough to know that and that's not what he's talking about
Yeah, what he probably meant to say was like looking into some kind of like, you know thing that allows you to look
Into time fucking traveling far away fucking telescope. So typically do that
I just want maybe he was too concerned about getting this one random clip of this chick walking down this platform for four seconds
It's relevant rags
Look at the evidence and uh, what is decelerated popularity and that is what's happened to downward thrusts channel
It's decelerated popularity. Also, I thought we said no mean things wolf. Wow, that's again wolf
Second it's hard. It's hard to be nice to this man. I mean we got we got three videos of downward thrust to get to
You know, he's not malicious. He's just he's just sharing his opinion. Okay, don't let him have an opinion wolf. God
Yeah
Sorry, let the man speak go wait
wait
Wait, wait
I just typed downward thrust in youtube and he has a video on battlefield five just
Just shouting it out. He has a few of them. Shout out to downward first
He made one of the videos we're covering I think will be relevant to that
Possibly he made because he made a video in favor of battlefield five and a lot of people like what the fuck dude because of the whole
You know don't like it
Don't buy it attitude thing and all the political stuff and and he made a video saying that he should be praised for being objective
In his review and ignoring the meta information. We actually probably should cover that at some point or maybe
we could do it on um
Because considering you've already got a video responding to him right we could do that on your um
Broadcast maybe because you like battlefield as well
Um, yeah, I haven't played battlefield five though
Well, it's more about the concept of should you mention that stuff when reviewing battlefield five as a game? Oh, oh, I remember
Oh, I know what video talked about. Yeah. Yeah, we can cover that
Let's see in call of duty gameplay is shifted towards linearity simplicity and accessibility
They're becoming substitutes for you know, it's really strange that he would abuse final fantasy foot when he says that they're going more toward linearity
Well, this video started with that, right?
So it's going to be throughout the whole thing that he played it and it wasn't as good as he remembers or it wasn't yeah
Reality like so that'll be a running theme
If you look at final fantasy, I guess 15 that was kind of like open world, wasn't it?
No, well to be fair to tone look I think this was the time when ff 13 came out. So that's pretty linear
So maybe that's where he's coming from pretty linear, too
I haven't played him so like he even played footage from final fantasy four
With sessle so that's what you're saying regs
Is that tone look probably didn't play those old games and he's just comparing stuff
Well, here's the thing. He played footage from the game
And I love final fantasy four. I love that game, but it is it's pretty darn linear
Yeah
So he got the footage
So
I'm confused. You mean he downloaded the youtube video, right?
Maybe that's what that's what you mean
Because he's at a pretty early part in the game the parts that he showed
Do you think he's like the anita sarkeesian of game criticism on the mail?
Do you guys think anita sarkeesian can actually edit videos or do you think she was just a talking head?
Oh, I don't think she can edit anything
Because if so, then she wouldn't check her channel see how she's doing
I'm pretty sure she's doing a fan frick
Yeah, yeah, if you count 2 000 views per video amazing sure that's now now now now now now
You wolf it's 1 000. Jesus. Okay, so
Three days ago 1.1
Thousand. Oh my god, that's worse than I thought one week ago is 4.2 thousand. Yeah
That's something. Uh, she had a um, she had a um, oh here's a boomer
Uh three weeks ago, that's 7 000 views. Oh when you said boomer, I was thinking of sargon
Uh, anita's kind of a boomer too
He's hard as anita sarkeesian or is that offensive to ask are we gonna get banned for asking that three months i'm gonna get
Well, no like 35 broke 10 000 after three months
After three months
White supremacy in american tradition, uh, that's four months ago 16 totally agrees
What likes and dislikes are disabled and there's no comments, well, that's how it's been since the inception of her channel
So that doesn't surprise me at all
This psa brought to you by kylo bad, okay
The video on white supremacy begins with the white one of the trio with a message to fellow white people
It's okay to accept that thanksgiving is bad
Probably one rhino milk plus one rhino milk equals a pair of rhino milks
Let me save this fem freak video I might be fun to look at later fem freak how could you say that?
I'm shortening frequency to freak
It would be free
Freak, that's how you would do it pronounce it correctly. You have to be non-offensive. So
You
Simplicity and accessibility they're becoming substitutes for gameplay depth. What about the unfortunate demise of the adventure platform genre or the
Accelerated popularity just say the unfortunate device because for some reason i'd missed that previously the unfortunate device the adventure platformer
It's like it's fucking booming right now in fairness when you don't understand
Yeah, there's plenty of uncharted four count as one because i'm yeah adventure platformer sure
Yeah, that was uh, pretty that did pretty well uncharted four. We're in the blind forest 2016 july 10th. When did ukulele come out?
um
As I mentioned i'm pretty certain
The the opinion of a lot of people is that they want to play more indie games instead of
Uh, triple a's because they're just better quality
Okay
I mean if like in fairness the three games I was gonna reference a role a year after his video
So that's more fair, but I mean it would be interesting for him to actually like
Say more about what he means. There's just been no wait
Alboy came out 2016
Yeah, someone mentioned spyro that works
Yeah
Yeah, absolutely
List on steam we got celeste he showed
Hat and time dead cells the messenger holo night ever happened
The the thing is dust and elizium tail he's probably talking about bandicazooie spyro crash bandicoot
Like 3d black farmers. Yeah, there's a whole that's a whole genre
um
And yes
They died they stopped but the thing is like at this point in 2016
I imagine you could have found a whole bunch of indie games that were the same thing
Yeah, or he came out 2015. So
What about portal?
Uh, I don't know if portal counts
Portal is an action platformer. Absolutely
Well, he said he's referring the this is the problem with genre. He said adventure platformer
You could fucking call call duty adventure platformer in certain sections. No call duty's not an adventure platformer
That is that is fucking here what I said. I said you could call it into certain sections. Listen, where fucking
Yeah, what platformer has or what call of duty has you like platforming around everywhere
Um
I don't know even climbing shit. Take your time
Is it really platforming though?
No, that's my point has ladders. It's a platformer. Did you not listen to the part where I said, this is the problem with mauler
TF2 is a platformer. I deliberately use a quote that would be misinformed that you guys are like that's a misinformed quote
Yeah mauler. Thank you for agreeing with me. And this is the problem with tone luke saying that adventure
Uh, yeah, I guess adventure platformers are disappearing because it depends on what he's referring to because the thing is most people
Define his adventure platformer collectathon collectathon is usually important part because that applies to spiro
Crash and croc and banjo. Yeah
If you'd put that in there too, then that
It lowers it again
But the thing is like you can find those games
In the indie market as far as you can find fucking anything in the indie market like the genre at the time. Yeah
Well, this is a I came all year later, but they do this. Okay. Okay. Um, important question in the chat wolf
Who do you main in team fortress 2?
Um
I hardly I hardly play tf2. I just like every once in a while. It's the guy with the shotgun and the rocket
I think it's soldier, isn't it? Or is that soldier? Okay. I just didn't know if that was the right name
I just picked him because he's got a rocket and a shotgun. All right. Okay. Well, what do you have your answer?
I went engineer all the time in that game
I haven't played that game in like two years. Oh, yeah, it's like that's another one
and ratchet and clank deliverance
What what
Come deliver portal's not adventure. Yes, it is. It's an you go on an adventure
Oh, yeah, why don't you just fucking argue how it's an adventure when you're just in a series of white rooms tired checkmate
Yeah, you can have an adventure through a series of white rooms
You got an adventure and fucking like anything in tetris
It depends on how abusive your father is really
So anyway tone look what have you got to say on this unfortunate
Adventure platform genre or the decelerated technically adventure platform you could say that about uncharted
Yeah, it's dead. Yeah, you're it's absolutely an adventure and tell me how close banjo kazooie and uncharted are
You know what? I mean? Like this is why being so vague doesn't help anybody
But yeah, I think I know what he's talking about
popularity of tactical strategy
It's also tone look also it's important to note that acceleration is both speeding up and slowing down. So
What is sorry?
Acceleration, didn't you say deceleration?
Yes, that's weird
deceleration
fortunate demise of the adventure platform genre or the decelerated popularity of tactical strategy games over the years
See that just sounded like a mouthful, didn't it?
Accelerated popular acceleration. I mean, yeah, it does mean a reduction in speed. All right, but you know, it's
Weird decelerated popularity of stalkers and adventure platformers all victim
You climb over
Remember that when that game wasn't dead. I do what games are you rip dirty bomb? Oh
900 hours in that shit
I thought you were talking about stalker. I was about to fight you
What rip rip stalker? No
Well, I mean it's not like stalker is super played right now, is it? Um cheeky breeky. Yes
cheeky breeky leak your titty
Cheeky breeky stalker to come sometime in the near future
Wait, whoa. Why is this stupid video thing jumping around venture platform genre or the decelerated popularity of tactical strategy
All victims of changing consumer tastes not only
I don't know if that's true victims of changing consumer tastes because people wanted more
Um collectathon adventure people fucking were desperate for banjo 3e
But it never came out and then they made nuts and bolts because of all the shit that went on with uh rare
So I don't know that that's because of people's changing values. I think that's just I don't know
Because i'm assuming you guys are aware of this question, but does the market shape our
Uh, you know desires or is it the other way around or is it both?
Um, I think it's a bit of both
We can be influenced and introduced to new things through the market
But people for the most part kind of know what they like and they'll seek it out
Yeah, and I you know, you get something new that a lot of people like that's not gonna work and then people love it
And then thus the market reflects that and starts putting out more of it like doom clones
There's loads of portal clothes starfox adventures count as a platformer. I don't know
Um, well, this is the things adventure platformer there's a lot of fuck dark souls
There's enough platforming to justify a montage of saying look adventure platform
Especially in ds2
also, I want to know what this um inlay of the steam thing here is supposed to be
pointing us towards
Dirty bomb and this these examples, right?
Yeah, but back in the day dirty bomb was still no it's zoom again on the sign-in information
He's going to show us his email and password. Oh good
If you guys have any questions get your email already so you can email tone load your questions concerning
Your favorite characters in team fortress. His name is tonal
All victims of changing consumer tastes not only but today's digital age allow why why tone?
Why did you do that?
Wait, what did you do? You know what you had to do?
What you had to do for that is you had to get a page you had to get that page you had to record it
And then you had take the clip and then you had to go to the beginning of the clip
And then take the window of the of it and you have to slide it all the way up above the image
And then you have to click the end of the clip and you have to slide
The little window all the way down to the bottom
So when it plays it moves from top to bottom and that's a lot of work for nothing
Why tone why?
I just want to know why you do these completely unnecessary edits. Do you think he even has a steam account?
Do you think he just like downloaded the app and was like i'm just going to show it to pretend that this is what people
Know I need to know why
Because like why wouldn't you be signed into steam who is not yeah?
No, oh wait, hold up. Hold up in his defense. Yeah. Yeah in his defense
If I open up a steam link that opens up in chrome
Yeah, i'm not signed in in chrome
But why would he get footage from google chrome steam when you because of the app?
No, because there's a reason it makes sense
Why would you open up the chrome browser version because wait well
Well, are you saying that tone is a poser?
I'm saying I don't think that tone actually has a steam account
I think when people send in the link for it, he went stam. What the fuck?
Okay, fair enough steam hams. It's damn
steamed ham, but seriously
I'm legitimately because a lot of work goes into making that because you have to fit it to the image
So that it fills the whole screen then you have to size it down
So it doesn't take up the entire screen because you've got the blur effect going on behind this, right?
So you already had footage and you've blurred it behind us
And you have this playing
And you wonder
What was the point of all that editing?
Well, someone suggested to protect any personal shit that may show up on his steam. Oh
Fair enough. I don't know that I don't think I don't think anything would
Then why does he show the part where it should
He's already got it cropped. So you can't see the
Popular new releases. I don't think it would matter
Look if I go if I log into steam right now and I go to the store page
All you have to do because yeah, he crops out the part at the top where it says store library community and then your name
Yeah
So it's so you matter if you but if you google
It's downward thrust steam the first thing that links is downward thrust steam profile
What I used to go he used to go by the name he doesn't use stam, okay
And square shift in dark souls blue sucks
Oh
What hang on I want to see
There might be something more to this than I haven't seen yet because i'm not only but today's digital age
Allows for the influx of an infinite amount of games to flood in around us
And circling back older games lack relevancy today. Why does he allow it to scroll so far off topic?
Is that what your is that what your point was right? Well, my point was that like the original before
you have this one here and
Fuck notice as well that it's angled. He's angled the whole thing. I don't know. I don't know why he's angled
Yeah, so I don't know why he did that but that's an extra thing that he's done to it for no reason
He he's made like how many videos praising dark souls 3 and one of his usernames was dark souls 3 sucks. Well
What's wrong with him?
Because his his view on dark souls 3 reflects common view which is the dark souls 3 is iterative of dark souls 1
As in too many bonfires because apparently people love bonfires the bosses were too same either
Blah blah blah, but the and the wheel building sucks because it's all mainly linear. Um, so he might have jumped on that train
Again, I don't consider tone look to have original thoughts. Like I don't know that he's ever had one
But he might have had that name
He went through a lot of editing work
To make something show up on screen that has no purpose
I mean
You just don't understand it if you think it doesn't have purpose clear. I that's right. I don't understand it
Bullage allows you guys wouldn't understand the inherent superiority of browser steam because you are and
And it comes in from the right hand side it goes it goes from the right so it appears
He has an effect that makes it appear
from
Why in its angle then it's behind a blurred gameplay. I would rather watch gameplay
Just keep the gameplay going then i'm like, oh something's happening. There's a thing doing the thing
Infinite amount of games to flood in around us and circling back older games lack relevancy today because of this
It sure as hell not as fun going back to a game with 15 year old outdated gameplay systems
Oh that depends on the game statement. It's not fun to play a thing that is outdated
It's like well if it's outdated sure, but it depends on what you're talking about
Yeah, and sometimes outdated things can have novelty to them
Like if you go if you go to steam like I told people go to steam and play quake one and quake two and you'll love it
I adore quake one. I go the the dark place is mod for it, which basically updates it to like a 2010 graphic game
Yeah, it's uh, that's good. Shit binding of isac is old. It's still a fun game. Do you mean like old mechanically or
No, like just being old in general
Yeah, I mean when when did the first binding of I mean fuck isn't like chas and tatros like the biggest
Debunkers of the whole like the just games that now
Yeah, balder's gate is still fun
It's complicated like I said final fantasy or still fun what he said is unfalsifiable. He's like it's less fun if it's less fun
It's like yeah
Yeah, first balder's gate came out in
98
That game is 20 years old around us
And circling back older games lack relevancy today because of this
It sure as hell not as fun going back to a game with 15 year old outdated gameplay systems
These games don't that depends on this on the game
Yeah, I mean look at look at spyro. That's not outdated at all depends on the game really
This is yeah, that's the whole point if he'd said something like a doom is outdated. I'd be like, uh,
Yeah
Now if you were talking about like the very first tomb raider i'd agree because I hate the whole which one is this
I loved it
Which one's this? Uh, this is one of the first two ones is it maybe I think so
This is like the legend tomb raider or something
I haven't played all no guardians of light is like there's another one on steam that came out. I want to say
Guardians of light is like that top-down one, isn't it? That could be yeah, I think this is either
Legend tomb raider tomb raider anniversary. That's another one
Yeah, it might be that laura kroft relic run laura kroft go laura kroft in the temple of osiris
Uh laura kroft in the guardian of light
Tomb raider underworld tomb raider anniversary tomb raider legend tomb raider the angel of darkness. I think it's one of those
I think it's one of those and then there's also chronicles the last rater chronicles tomb raider curse of the sword
Jesus tomb raider the last of the sword
That's a lot of tomb raiders that's a lot of two and I ain't even named them all I can keep going
No
Tomb raider the action adventure tomb raider tomb raider two tomb raider three tomb raider
Tomb raider the action adventure like tomb raider 2000 for game boy color
That's a thing
Now let's go through the tomb raider movies. No, that's that's death
Nope too late. What has begun cannot be stopped
Tomb raider can can we not
A team-year-old outdated game that is really no these games don't say
If terminator genesis taught me anything it's that you can always make something good and then ruin it
Tombinator wait, did I say?
Did I say tomb raider genesis? I don't know
I meant to say terminator but
Just so I get my drink
Right what broke rags
What was that I meant to say terminator, I don't know if I was saying tomb raider no tomb inator
All right
Womb raider guys tone look is giving us
Oh
We do what what one we can't do womb raider that's
No, no, we can't that's reserved for like harvey Weinstein. That's what all that's what all the boys called me. Yeah
I don't know
These games don't satiate the pallets of gamers
I know
Oh my god, that's like when trump said braggadocious and it's like that's too many syllables for you
Why do you need to say satiate?
Satisfying just say satisfy gamers. Yeah, or you can just say sate
sate
Yes, but I'd still recommend satisfy over that just because like fucking hell just because it's like tone
This is too smart of a word for you. She ate the it does stand out
It does stand out just a bit pallets of gamers whom have had their preferences change through time
Moreover due to the fact that so many games exist out there. It can debunk the affinity
Hang on, let me play it. I'm a little
I'll scoot it back a little bit and then we can debunk some more affinity
Is infinity more exist out there it can debunk the affinity towards our favorite games
Do you know what?
Affinity that is I think what he's saying is like new new stuff can make us not want to play the old stuff
That's what he's trying to say. I'm not even calling that. It doesn't make sense as a statement
Affinity is like do
I kind of do I I have I actually don't
because when you
Because an affinity is like like a liking or a sympathy for something
You wouldn't call to it something say debunking that you'd say exactly the lines of like
Because good argue is expose the falseness or the hollowness of that's what the debunks is
But that doesn't make sense
So if you expose the hollowness of how much you like a thing
That would be like saying you don't actually like the last jedi that much you're more tied to star wars
You could argue that's debunking the affinity, but I'd never say that
That would be a really hard sell
Just out to tell gamers that you know, you didn't really like this
That's a really hard sell yeah, no, there's a thing on locust say i'm going to to debunk
Debunk your affinity or dark souls, but then again, I don't think he actually has any affinity for dark souls
I think his like for that series is
Debunk the affinity what a strange way to like does it that do you guys reckon he actually like goes ahead and google
Some of the words he's using and looks for synonyms
Yeah the source.com. Yeah, like I just wait, what if he doesn't know a better
It just occurred to me
Do you think he actually knows what the source is or do you think he just goes on to google and he's like words that?
Sound like this or words that are like this
This is the intellectual gaming community. I know that
He knows that yeah intellectual lord community. Give me a break. Give me our lord. Don't look
So he can debunk the affinity towards our favorite games and make us less inclined to stand for outdated gameplay design
Wait, what did you say like that?
There's a second talking point
Okay, go like he may point it to a two syllable word for no reason
No, I just want to I just want to say that it's really good that he made such a statement without really backing it up
He's just oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Oh, I've what a good statement to make
You guys didn't really like all this stuff next point
The unadulterated complete take on this just for chat because again for some reason i'm like three seconds behind all three of you apparently
Yeah, hold on i'm confused before you do this real quick. Um, what was his first talking point?
point
the games
The other fun game with tonald is to spot the arbitrary pauses so where he'll just randomly start pausing
And then you'll be like why did he pause there?
Fucking doing tonals
It is a bit
unusual for where he puts random emphasis on parts of
All right, there should be no emphasis on let's let's go until 2 30. Are you saying are you saying he's accenting the wrong syllable?
Let's go to 2 3 and listen for all of the arbitrary pauses and the just just all of it
All right, all right
Moreover due to the fact that so many games exist out there
It can debunk the affinity towards our favorite games and make us less inclined to stand for out of the game
Let's take a peek at our second talking point
Oh, I just love hearing all of his random pauses for no reason
It's I miss I miss you. Good old downsy. I know it's been too long. I miss you tonald
You like my favorite our second talking point relevant games to mirror current gaming standards
relevant games mirror current gaming standards
Uh self-fulfilling again, they would be relevant if they were to
Yeah, that's almost like a tautology
I'm confused by that statement
The most relevant games in my opinion that stand up today are the ones that gel with our current gameplay trends the most relevant games
In my opinion that stand up today
The most relevant in my opinion. What the hell is the point in qualifying them as do you just mean your favorites?
It's like why don't you just look at why don't you just look at um, list of the most popular games
And be like according to the list of the most popular games by unit so yeah
Yeah, because our concurrent players we can you know, it we can see that there is a trend
How can you have relevant in my opinion, how does that make any sense
Is it as into as if to say this is constructed from my point of view and not any kind of standard
Like that's obviously why he's using that fucking phrase
Tonald is irrelevant in my opinion. How did you say that?
the debunkinator of finisis
Um, but yeah like to be because how would you guys judge relevancy?
It's probably the amount of current players or the amount of sales made something like that, right?
Players retained over time. I think that makes sense and he's and then he's like said
He's about to move in to talk about examples is my guess and so now he's like, oh shit
If these accounted is not relevant by some metric i'm just going to say in my opinion. So i'm immune from criticism
Well in tonald see
In this video he hasn't qualified
Anything how can he call for anything in fucking five minutes, dude?
I mean he could but he's not going to he could be concise
Yeah, I was gonna say brevity is a soul of wit rags. Got to get him out. Get him out. Go go go go
Are the ones that gel with our current gameplay trends
Donkey con. So he said like what is relevant is what matches trends, which again, isn't that just self-fulfilling? That's that's the it is what it is
It is what it is. It is what it is, man
Country mario 3 punch out some of the old street fighter games crash bandicoot. Did you spot the trend?
No, they're games that are immediately satisfying and offer a good sense of challenge. What are you?
limited by gameplay engine what
Let's go back. Let's what in the hell is he saying?
What runs that gel with our current gameplay trends?
So these are games that gel with our current gameplay trends
So that's going to be the common thread with all these donkey con country
Mario 3 punch out some of the old street fighter games
I think what he is trying to say in his own special way
is that
sometime because interests
Will come and go it's like a roller coaster
It's cyclical almost you could say
Um, there will come a time when like real-time strategy games are really popular and maybe not quite as much
But then there'll be a resurgence stuff like that. And so
I think he's trying to say
That if a fighting game like if fighting games make a little upward swing in terms of sales
Maybe that will make older games that are fighting games
more relevant again because currently that genre is getting more interest an upward swing as opposed to a downward threat
I
Think that's what he's trying to say
In the worst way. Well, the thing is as far as i'm saying
He's just naming games that were relatively known to be popular games
And then he's gonna throw a thing on the end to explain why even though it's gonna be some arbitrary aspect donkey con country
Mario 3 punch out some of the old street fighter games crash bandicoot. Did you spot the trend?
They're games that are immediately satisfying and offer a good sense of challenge
However, even these games are limited by gameplay engineered on 15 year old controller schemat
No schematics. Okay
Spyro was designed on a console that didn't even
So
I mean even without the even with the thumbsticks now when it wasn't designed with thumbsticks in mind initially
The three spyro games three that matter anyway
Um, they play wonderfully. I also don't I i'm pretty staunch into saying that banjo kazoo
He doesn't actually require any changes. Like it's just playable to the only thing is graphics. Maybe I don't really care myself
Like the controller it doesn't make that argument doesn't make sense
And he said I don't understand when he made it he said like why were they popular and it's like because they were
What was it just immediately fun and engaging or whatever?
He just said something arbitrary and then he moves on to say but
They're outdated. It's like but they wouldn't have been outdated when they came out. Isn't that what you were just talking about?
Yeah, I thought that's what your first point was right? Like this is the thing
I'd have to write this out to break this down because it's such a weird line of thought where he goes from like
What makes a game relevant?
Well, it's based on what is popular and trending and it's like obviously and then he's like for example in my opinion
Donkey kong and then mario and he's like why were these games popular because of this reason but they were outdated
You're like, what the fuck are you doing right now? Like I did it
uh, this reminds me of that awful watch mojo video where they these are effects from movies that are super outdated and
They cite something for a completely different movie about how it's important to remember
Um that effects for the time need to be taken into account
Um, and then they cite that uh terminator one has bad effects
But when terminator one came out those effects were pretty fucking good
Well, is there a point that it ages out in the chat does he know that the mouse and keyboard haven't changed in decades
Got him. Yeah, good point again. He doesn't have a steam
Country mario 3 punch out some of the old street fighter games crash bandicoot
Did you spot the trend?
They're games that are immediately satisfying and offer a good sense of challenge immediately satisfying and offer a good sense of challenge
How many games can you apply those two labels to?
Wait, wait, I don't think street fighter is immediately satisfying. I don't think spirals immediately satisfying your microphones dying as well
Um, okay mario. Hello. Hey, okay
Should I know? Oh, yeah, just drop out and drop back in the when when I spoke to him before apparently that like solves it
so
There we go
Hey, what's up, we're glad you're back. Hi, buddy
Hello
Now proceed with your point
No, I mean like I don't think street fighter is immediately satisfying if you're playing against other people that are better than you
I agree true
The thing is what I was saying is can
What games can those two things be applied to challenging and instantly satisfying?
I think donkey kong. Yeah, sure. Well, i'm suggesting that there's very few games that you could never apply those two
Oh, okay
I mean, there's a lot of games that require practice and work and that's where the satisfaction comes from
It doesn't come from instant gratification
It comes from knowing that you're improving and getting better and better over time to imply that that's the reason why they became
relevant games or trending games i'm like
And then he's gonna move on to say that they're but they're dated by their technology which again is like that's not even true in every case
And see this is what we mean when people like hey man
Fucking takes so long to make videos and stuff and i'm just like yeah, but i'd rather say that than say nothing
He's just saying a bunch of nothing right now. Like there's so much stuff so many questions we have
so many questions
Chase face just p.m. He's saying hey cunt tell rags. I like his content
Hey, thank you
I think he'll be pleased in the next few days
Oh, hey cool rags doesn't know what he's talking about
Last of us rags doesn't know what he's talking about. I don't know i'll get it
Is there anything else in the last of us?
I did yesterday. I was talking about the the three when my opinion
The most the three most overrated games of all time and my three were the last of us sky rim and uh, bioshock infinite
I agree with that. I agree with it, too
I think the last of us is disgustingly overrated. So I mean, it's not a bad game. It's fine
It's just um people give it way more credit for being the most predictable story i've ever seen in a video game
With characters that only get likable in like the last 40 minutes or so
Dude, I like the characters in the story among. I like the mechanics the piss easiest stealth options i've ever seen
Gunplay that's super simplistic a world that has been done about a hundred thousand times. Uh, no, it's not zombies
It's flowered monsters. It's new
As a point in the video, uh our friend in the chat skeleton boner lord
Um said that tetris is a crap game because it was designed to work on the og game boy, which is over 30 years old
This is true. There you go. Yeah, it's shit
However, even these games are limited by gameplay engineered on what he says limited
Is is that are they still good though because you know, technically banjo kazoo is limited by its time, but it's still
There's nothing i'd change about it specifically technology wise outside of graphics
Yeah, I mean, where do you draw the line between is it limited because it's good game designed to have limits at certain places
Or is it limited because technology put in limits that otherwise if they weren't there would make the game better
You're kind of judging a hypothetical game
At that point we have to assume so much of what he's even saying
Because it's like so little to work with because because all he would have to say is these games were made on older
Technology and who knows how amazing they might be if technology didn't hinder them in certain ways
Burtman said I thought he meant that those games are still relevant because their gameplay even though designed for different controls still exist today
Another still trending. I don't know that that's his point right now
I'm confused as to what exactly his point is. I thought he was just saying these are games that did well in their time
Like they trended when they were new
They were relevant when they released obviously you wouldn't necessarily say don't come country
The two or whatever is relevant right now. It'd be kind of weird
Like I wouldn't even say the original doom is relevant right now, but I still say it's extremely popular anyway
Yeah, I mean the title of this video is are older video games relevant?
Are we any closer to an answer?
Well, then and that's the thing if you if you ask me that question
I'd be like, what do you mean by relevant?
And then you give me a specific standard and then you'd be an easy answer like people consider
People consider doom when making games nowadays. I'd be like possibly
Depends on the game again, then it's like do people uh make games trying to bank on older games
Uh franchise and stuff making them relevant. I'd be like absolutely
I mean it would take 10 seconds at the beginning to say and by relevant. I mean
Yeah
Before we go on mauler, I just wanted to know purely out of curiosity
We started watching the video at 30 minutes. How long have we been going for 150?
Oh, wow. It's taking us an hour and a half to get through two
Two minutes at 48. He's covering a hell of a lot of interesting things, but he's not saying anything about them
Well, he's he's mentioning a lot of interesting things and just blowing by them without a care in the world
And we actually give a shit. Yeah, like this thing. I could we could be making loads of conversations
It's really interesting about all these topics. He's just like blip blip blip. I'm just like, okay
We'll make the video for you. Downie. I mean downward thrust
Downsy, I mean the
Tonals fuck those are limited by gameplay engineered on 15 year old controller schematics
More often than not popping in something like super mario maker will feel leagues better and be more rewarding than some of those old dinosaurs
Which is exactly why i'm sorry. How what how's he making these claims?
What
Try that again more importantly though. I want to talk about the other speed
Popping in something like super mario maker will feel leagues better and be more rewarding than some of those old dinosaurs
Which is exactly why it's not even true
Wait, wait, wait first of all, but second you got to give us examples as to why
Yeah, why give us anything for why?
Yeah, he just says it feels better on new controllers, but not but no it's I mean
What what does he mean? Is the responsiveness of the controller better or or or something?
He's just saying that playing this old game on new controllers like super mario maker
Is a much better experience because I said it in nice words. That's what he's saying
Yeah, is it does it run at a higher resolution? Does it have a higher frame rate and even then the concept is identical
Does that make all the older game that is clearly based off of irrelevant? Is he suggesting?
That to play let's just say the first mario game on ness with that controller is no one you're satisfying as playing the exact same
Game on the updated controller on the switch in this game
Because if so, I think that's what he's saying, but that's like
A strange thing to say i'm not even 100 sure of why he would even bring that up
Yeah, I mean what's he saying like the old controller schematics like how and then emulator we're all playing like potentially with
60 controllers or ps4 controls attached to the pc through the emulator, which means we're not technically playing as it was originally intended which
What does this have to do with whether or not old games are relevant?
Like
Like what rag said he our friend tony didn't say what relevant means
So I don't know what the point of the video is at this point
Let's try this again. I'll try and go for longer
I'm not popping in something like super mario maker will feel leagues better and be more rewarding than some of those old dinosaurs
There's such such a strange thing to say that he said be more rewarding. I don't really
Know why he would and also what does he mean by rewarding exactly like super subjective?
Like is is it because oh, it's so smooth when I play it on the switch controller or
Oh, it's so much satisfying because of some achievement
I don't know and if this point here that he's trying to make is that
Because essentially he's what he what he's doing here without maybe knowing he's doing it or saying it outright is he's qualifying
What isn't isn't relevant?
Is if something comes out like if version 2 comes out and it runs better but uses the same concept
The previous one is no longer relevant
Like is that what we're using as the standard for what does determine if something's relevant or not?
True we should we should tweet at him and ask what is it to be relevant to me?
What does your title mean maker will feel leagues better and be more rewarding than some of those old dinosaurs?
Which is exactly why games have sequels more importantly though?
No, that's not no
Okay, like the reason a game gets a sequel that is a very complicated subject
It's not because the original is not relevant anymore
That's because it is the precise opposite. Yeah, like yeah
Sometimes I mean in the case of some games
It's like because the story is continuing all because they want to bank on a franchise
Because they just want more of it all because the first one was shit and the developers were like we need to make a better attempt
You can make a sequel for so many fucking reasons
Bungie made halo 3 because halo 2 definitely sucked. It definitely wasn't one of the biggest games ever
No, halo 2 was irrelevant. That's why they made halo 3
Uh, it makes sense game irrelevant guys. Gosh, and that's why halo 3 odst was made because nobody likes halo 3
What a strange thing to say total. No way better. It's so random
Like how suddenly that's why sequels are made guys
What aren't you paying pension we have to try and
Investigate his wording to find out what he means
It's like dissecting. Give it a lab. Why do those coins look like boobs?
Some of those old dinosaurs, which is exactly why games have sequels more importantly though. I want to talk about it
It's such a weird statement to throw in seriously. Yeah, it's yeah, it's and you know, how how confident he is in saying it or exactly
This is why
More importantly though, I want to talk about the other species of games, you know
There's more content in each sentence
Than there is in all of destiny one and two combined
Oh wait, can we get a quick sidebar? Can you get a quick sidebar from wolf?
Have you heard what happened with bungee and they split with that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I still don't trust bungee
Do you know I don't know. Okay, no, I don't either but i'm interested bungee totally shattered my trust
I'm not I mean look I I don't doubt that
Activision definitely had a hand in the vision of destiny
But bungee also treated marty odonnell like shit
They got rid of all their talented writers. So their stories aren't good either their gameplay is really dull and mundane
I mean I even if they make a destiny three or whatever they make next it's like
Unless I am guaranteed that it's going to be
A good game and I hear reviews from people that I trust and that does that that excludes
Anyone that gave destiny one and two a good rating because I don't trust them
Um, i'm i'm never buying a bungee game again
My destiny too, buddy, and we're gonna we're gonna have fun with destiny three right fringy
Buddy oh pal
I'll wait for your review when you make that but otherwise it's like just because
Yes, however, does that mean that they're redeemed in my eyes?
No
Because I was a huge bungee fan and I as a fan
A long time fan that i've been playing their games for like well over a decade
I honestly do not feel like they deserve my money and unless I am absolutely certain
That their next game is at least an eight out of ten. I'm not buying another game from them
Oh, it's someone mentioned in the chat. What about like the the star wars sequels?
Are the original is the original trilogy relevant?
Yes, yes
It's relevant to the people that have objective opinions
Oh, I was gonna say by the way, so when he was writing this script, right?
He was like i'm gonna i'm gonna say and this is relevant, you know
Different a different kind of games or a different sort of games or oh fuck, you know
That's too too lowbrow. What is a wit I could use instead of kind or sort? It's like what about species? Yeah
Species a video game because that's how people talk toned. You got it nailed it nailed it
I'm talking about the classic games that we often call it a clade. I want to hear it again. It's too beautiful
I want to talk about the other species of games
I'm talking even posed the other species like he's so satisfied at himself. Oh species
Yeah, fucking nailed it. Even though there's no ancient species. I guess I should add
like in brackets add
Random pauses to gedelb even though i'm pretty sure i've got it
I'm gonna add even more this time just for tonals
About the classic games that we often reminisce about but go back and play them again. It's harder to fall back in love with them
No
This is a totally subjective statement
Well, yeah, I mean is it harder to fall back in love with doom for one person but not for another because for me
It's like every time I go back and play the original doom. I love it
Well same for me and quake yeah that that depends completely on the person and what their preferences are after they've changed from
X amount of years after playing the last game like yeah, so just
My dolphin emulator like i've got like 30 games on there that
Some of them. Yes, you play them and go. Oh, wow. This is not as good as I remember
But then some of me like shit, man. This is almost better than I remember
Yeah, I mean I remember when I made my review of the force unleashed. I had like in my head
I was like, oh man. I remember this game. It was like a nine out of ten
It was awesome. Then I went back and replayed it and I was like, uh, this is more of a six really
I mean it really depends on the game and the person right like aging well or not based on mechanics graphics everything else and
But he's not like like I mean, I was a I was still a kid when that game came out
So I mean that might have colored my opinion too
I was more impressed by like the graphics and mechanics and story at that point, but now opinion in color
Oh
Classic games like final fantasy four or seven
Castlevania chrono trigger xenogears or even some of the old zelda games. Are they still relevant today?
What are you that's different to?
Whether they hold up today
And how is it different?
How are these old games different are different species from the old games you mentioned earlier?
Dude, we'll never get it. That's about the fact
They said species but in different clades
Different genealogy. Okay, if you if you understood the genealogy from my bad my bad trigger
Xenogears or even some of the old zelda games. Are they still relevant today?
Tell us the answer I challenge you to go back and slug 50 hours into so in this scenario then relevant means still
Mechanically sound to this day. Is that what he's saying?
Yeah, because I guess
That's such a stupid definition for relevant why would why would you define relevancy by whether or not
Why would you define relevancy three and a half minutes into your six minute video?
Set about the mic. All right
It's too deep for you rags
Gears or spend a month finishing final fantasy seven. No, you fucking do it. It's your video
He's saying that if he did it already and he's found the truth rags that all the video games
Releva
You know, yeah, all I'm saying rags
All I'm saying is games is that if he really slugged all those hours into final fantasy three
How come he's only playing parts from the very beginning of the game?
I'm just saying
Xenogears or spend a month finishing final fantasy seven
You'll find that no systems engineered for those games are quite clunky and extremely time consuming. I'm looking
Wait time consuming isn't even that's neutral. It doesn't even know you could have good time consuming stuff
And jrpgs are grindy by nature. You're gonna have to grind for levels. So I don't it's like
The fact he said clunky as well. It's like come on, man. No, no, what exactly you mean?
The material system in ff7 is I think good. Also, I like the draw system in ff8 also
What does he mean by clunky?
Is it because clunky can mean a lot of different things
Is it because it's awkward to play because it's too long you said grindy?
That's a way better qualifier than time consuming because thing is like my favorite games are time consuming
Doesn't mean anything specifically
Is that good you're like, well, I mean if I had fun do I get consuming by time?
He's just ejaculating words into the ether time consuming i'm looking at you knights of the round old buddy
The reason stop stop stop knights of the round is cool
Shut shut the fuck up
Okay, that's it. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's how you can use telling you to be
silent
Round old buddy. The reason is the efap is pretty tight. Good. So we this
Developers of old games were ill-equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into classic games. Wait, that's wait
Wait, that's for any game right now. I I don't what the fuck are you talking about?
Wait, you can lopsided story objectives. Let's hang on. Let's get that again. I really didn't follow it on that one
What does that mean?
Developers of old games were ill-equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing and they were oh my god, let's calm this right down
Okay. All right. Here we go boys. Here we go boys. Oh everyone stretch
Let me get my 50 pound weights real I need to write this statement down
I'm cracking my knuckles right now
All right, shaun t time to do insanity workout number five like my grandmother just texted me now this is football
I what I don't I don't know
Does she mean to text you I don't know but
This is football the reason she has two exclamation points and a football emoji
Do you think she's watching efap? Yeah, I think she might be watching football
You guys do whatever you want for sec i've got the video up on a second window
I'm just gonna write out his sentence in full
All right, actually mentally prepare yourself and i'm going to get a um, you know fill up this drink
So i'll be right back. Yeah, what was that a tin can no, this is my my yeti
Oh, so yeti I don't know
If well, I like your thermos
Okay
Smart game. Yeah, it was sponsored by white supremacy
It was 50 bucks to standardize and I use it every day and it's amazing. I love my yeti
You know, it's another good thing is uh, hydro flask you fill it up and that's how much water you're supposed to have in a day
And it pretty much works exactly like the yeti played pacing into classic games
Do this sentence?
Wow, it's amazing wolf
Yeah
Backtracking I get the better version of story objectives
Playing fucking sentence
This is not a script
I refuse to believe it awful pacing from area to area. Oh, did you get the very said awful pacing from area to area?
Okay
So sorry, what's the setup for this sentence? Anyway
Month finishing final fantasy seven you'll find that the systems engineered for these games are quite clunky
And extremely time consuming i'm looking at you knights of the round old buddy. The reason is this
So he's he's saying games are clunky or whatever. It's just fine old games
Old games clunky and then his execution of the next bit is the reason is this
The developers of old games are ill equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into classic games
Backtracking. Oh, that's a halo too. Well, the statement itself is just like whoa
What do you what developers of old game? Okay. So first of all, what is an old game?
Um ill equipped. I wrote three's got pretty good pacing
ill equipped. What does it mean to be ill equipped to be able to generate?
quote unquote smart gameplay pacing
And what does it mean to standardize that?
How does one standardize smart gameplay pacing in old games
And why are they ill equipped to do so what a statement dude?
Yeah, and and he's gonna leave us to do it for ourselves, you know
play the game see for yourself like
I don't like this is this is this is it guys. This is the thing
So when i'm like, oh my god, I make like a 10 hour video talking about chicken. You're like, why did you take so long?
Couldn't you've been quick?
I'm like, have you ever listened to the people who are making the short videos ever do you ever listen to these sentences and you're like
Wait a minute
Like what?
What did you just say and some people be like wow, this is so pedantic and i'm like, no
Just tell me what this sentence means because I fucking have no idea
Because I get not
Not only doesn't he qualify it he tells us to play it to see if what he's saying is true
If you know I think I got a apt
Analogy his videos are kind of like the fourth song of ice and fire book. Just a bunch of filler and no substance
He's rags bagging pots together, I think he's lost his mind that's probably
Oh, okay. He's he's trying to uh recreate. He's just making a cover of that
They start banging shit together and breaking everything
A poor guy he didn't he didn't deserve I can't believe we're only through fucking not even one of down with
I forgot to tweet out that i'm on the stream also
I always forget to tweet out efap. I think people get upset by such things
Isn't your twitter set so that it'll uh alert people as soon as you go live or upload a video?
Oh
It's it's on discord I don't think it's on twitter though
Someone drew down with thrust apparently
You guys are getting choppy so i'll leave
Okay, i'll see dm must use chrome
Eggs what's eggs mean eggs? Oh
Eggs. Oh, uh the intellectual gaming thing
intellectual gaming
Uh, I forgot I thought it was community society
society intellectual gaming society
We live in an intellectual gaming society
Like I even like the low low effort memes
Downward thrust aka the the thesaurus
Uh
Yeah, okay, uh, yeah, so okay rags
Okay, I have written out the sentence. We're gonna listen to it and then i'll pull it up just so that we can actually
fucking
Figure it out. All right, that's our goal figure out. All right, that sounds like a noble goal time consuming
I'm looking at you knights of the round old buddy. The reason is this
Developers of old games were ill-equipped to standardized smart gameplay pacing into classic games
Backtracking lopsided story objectives awful pacing from area to area
Non-scaling enemies and zones lack of proper save states. It was hell in some of these games
Let's fast forward to 2016 with so much data out there. So most developers
So that was 2000 let's fast forward to 2016. It was a 2015 game
So that was that was the full sentence. All right, so stop me when it's let's pretend for a second guys
And i'm like, oh, hey rags wolf. We can
Talk to you guys about this idea I had so like yeah old games are just so clunky and like the reason for it
Okay. Okay. Go. What do you mean? Oh, what do you mean old games are clunky?
Okay, let's you know what let's let's tally it. So that's one strike because obviously I can't answer for it
Old games are clunky. I mean old games are clunky. Well, there's two questions there
We can warriors back back. Hey, you're okay, dude. All right big. Yeah. Yeah, so
Rags, there's two strikes though because I said old games. What does that mean?
One year ago five years ago ten years ago three years ago
What does it mean to you yeah, um when you say old games to me I probably would say like, um
xbox original and earlier i'm thinking like
2008 and before it now like obviously it grows if when we're in 2030
Like 15 games will be old and then god is weird to think that the witcher 3 and orrey are both like four years old now
Yeah
I think that maybe my perception of the game is old or not is based off of that's kind of when I started to get into
Gaming when was black ops released?
2010
Nine years ago. Oh my god
Skyrim was seven years ago. God. I remember coming back from middle school and playing black ops with my friends
That was fun. All right, so old games are clunky two strikes
Let's let's move on stop me if you guys have any issues with the sentence
the reason for those things
Is the developers of old games are ill equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into clapping stop
Stop that depends on the day that depends on the game
The platform it's on there's a sentence so
Specific about what the strike is so we can get all you want to like get this sentence and like display it on the screen
I've got it on screen. You do. Okay. Okay. So here's a few guys then as well
Here's my thoughts on it that that doesn't make any sense that depends on the year was made what consulate was made
What game it was what genre it was what developer it was what publisher it was how much money they had?
I mean that depends on so many different factors and he's not going to give us one example
So I don't know what he's trying to say about this
The developers of old games are ill equipped. That's not a spell equipped to standardize. Not how you're supposed to hear this
smart gameplay
How do you spell that? That is that is q u ip p d
Maybe that's the rich version of spelling it. I don't know. Let me no, hang on. Let me check. What is how do you spell equipped?
Dictionary definition of any word equipped provided i'll fit it out
Wait, so there's two ways to spell equipped
Really? I have never seen it like that. Yeah, just like standardize. Uh in america. We use a z but in the uk
It's an s s. Yeah, just like connection with a t. Do you know that uh c o n n e x i?
Some people okay, so this website says equipped the way I've spelled it is not a word
Uh, someone said that both
I mean i'm interested in knowing if i've been spelling it wrong the whole time. I'm cool with that. I just don't I've never seen it like that
I well, let's let's think are there any other words that would follow that same formula? Yes. Yes. Um
There's some words like that. We would use an ed for that in the uk. They would use a t like
Um, fuck I gotta find an example. I know
Of them
I'm gonna find like think of it right now some take on this
Even even when I type in website with a t it says did you mean equipped with a d?
Like it's in merriam webster does it that weird? That's the interesting part. So I guess it does exist
Definition of equipped yeah
On the way. No
So yes, someone in the chat actually said dreamed and dreamt
Yeah
Well, no, actually, I don't know if that would be the same because with equipped you had an extra p
Oh, that's true dreamed and dreamt. But no, they make the same thing. Yeah learned and learned. That's a pretty good example
Well, yeah, but I don't think so because you don't add an extra ending consonant to the end
to learned
Yeah, there's only one n but in equipped there's two p's
You take a quip and then you add another p
I thought you were just I thought you were just meaning the t
Language, I don't know about equipped. I've never seen it spelled that way. I haven't either. I wonder
That's another one spelled and spelt
Spell leaped. No because it because it keeps it it keeps the same amount of consonants at the end
These are things we're just we're just talking about the spelling though
Oh, that's what i'm saying
Because with equipped equipped is based off of a word that only has one p at the end
But it adds an extra p
And then an ed. Oh wait. Okay, so i'm trying to get the
Again, I don't know the the authority of this website
But it says equipped the way I've spelt it is archaic really archaic
It's not been in common usage since the early 18th century
And that's really all that needs to be said that apparently the modern spelling is what rags is talking about
So technically valid I guess
I mean, I know I knew what you said when you wrote it
So it depends on what your definition of relevant is really
I mean
I i'm, okay to keep using it if it's if it's accepted. It's like decimate
Someone said woman and inferior. Oh
Oh boy, and then standardized that's british versus american. So that's okay, but um
I'm pretty sure anyway the s versus the z
We need to have words that have like the apostrophes in them equip apostrophe t
I'll just put the z there for rags to make sure we need to go back to uh, no, it's fine
That's how you want to do it over if that's how you do it over in your little island country
Then that's fine. I mean, it's all good. I don't trust you colonists in the way you write things
It's terrifying. It's technically how the rest of the world aside from canada and the u.s. Do it
So we got
We got uh, we got all the strikes from from wolf done rags. Do you want to tackle this this one?
the developers of old games
Are ill-equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into classic games
Why would you want to standardize?
Gameplay pacing. Yeah, what first off what's smart gameplay pacing and how do you standardize it?
We need examples downward. Yeah examples are varying. That's that sentence is like a mean sentence
This is what I mean down
Wonderful one will be going in gedel because that's like the kind of writing I actually put into gedel
developers of old games are
ill-equipped
So they would like to maybe but they can't do to their equipment
Yes, but technology I suppose will not allow them
To standard. Well, here's the thing
It's the developers of old games are ill-equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into classic games into old games
So what does that even mean developers of old games into classic games?
What are now there's a difference between all the games and classic games?
maybe
Can you just say developers if he's talking about either classic or old like he doesn't need both of those qualifiers?
I don't know the statement
He's drawn a he's drawn a difference between old games and classic games without yeah driving them
because he's implying that the developers of these old games are
They are trying they can't
They're something that they have doesn't translate into classic games
Maybe what he's trying to say is that uh, the smart gameplay pacing makes an old game a classic game
Is that what he's trying to say? I I actually don't think so. What is smart gameplay?
What's a classic game?
Let's google smart gameplay
I wonder what comes up and the thing is you could be like he's not talking about smart gameplay
He's talking about smart gameplay pacing
Oh, right, right. Oh, my bad even simple smart gameplay pacing
The first thing that comes up is gamasutra pacing and gameplay analysis theory
And so right, okay, so we'll move on from there, right? Oh, he's only got 10 strikes. That's not so bad
so his examples then of
So he's done that sentence and now he's going to provide us five examples of what that sentence is referring to
Post them in thingy for you. So you got backtracking
I don't even
You know like backtracking backtracking is so vague that's in that's like or in the blind forest metroid
Is it bad is it good?
Did they implement it badly is already saying that depends because or in the blind forest has really backtracking because it's part of the game playing
Of course throughout the game
Yeah, well then you have something like halo one where it just like has you do the same levels backwards like two times
And I wouldn't know that
tracking
Remember backtracking in dmc4
Or yeah, if you're going to put the metroidvania, I think that's like part of the game
Right what i'm saying is like that is can I think you'd be hard pressed to find someone who doesn't consider super metroid a classic game
by the general consensus
And so yeah
Is he referring to all or just there's some old games that had developers that were unable to execute these five specific things
Correctly and thus they are like stains in classic games. Someone said this is the dark souls of arguments
Well, no because with dark souls you can clearly tell what the enemy is that needs to die
Here we're still trying to figure out what exactly we're supposed to be taking away from all this
So yeah, just he just nebulously states backtracking. So it's like, okay, I guess he's referring to like
Poorly executed backtracking because notice with the rest of them he's got qualifiers
So lopsided awful non-scaling lack of proper, but the vision was just backtracking
Let me let me make sure well what he says lopsided story of backtracking lots of classic games
Backtracking. Yeah, he literally just says backtracking. Anyway lopsided story objectives. What do you guys reckon that even means?
I'm giving one side backtracking wait one side lower or smaller than the other
Wait, so some objectives are bigger than others. Isn't that basic shit?
It sounds like it depends on what the objective is, right?
Yeah, like if it's you know, get get to the top of the tower and sub objectives. Yeah defeat the bosses on the way
It depends on where you are the story also, right? I mean, what does he mean by that?
Like not every part of the story is more important. It's going to be as important as the next one, right? I mean
Because you guys like you said very lopsided is typically like has bad connotations like you
Most people yeah, lopsided is bad balance is good lopsided is bad
Also, wait, are you telling me he googled balance and he went for the opposite of balance, but in a smarter sounding way
Possibly I don't know what he's trying to say
Like like if I just googled lopsided that's what it meant. Uh, one side lower or smaller than the other and
It depends on where you are the story
Not every part of the story is super important. Like you need pacing
like
It's part of facing right if you're going to tell a story you can't hit the audience with
Lots of big moments like if you only had huge story objectives every time like huge big important ones
It's like defeat god defeat satan defeat. Blah blah blah. You should be like it would be neat to have some other ones
I don't understand what game wait wait
If that's what he's talking about though, by the way, we don't even know
That's amazing. I just thought of something
How can you standardize pacing when there's slow paced games that are really good and fast paced games that are also really good?
Some was a really slow paced game
But then you have like call of duty 4 which is really fast paid
I mean he can't standardize that kind of pacing. Oh, so someone said um, lopsided story objectives
Maybe he's talking about the character's priorities versus the player's priorities
That's an interesting take well, what's the player's priorities in relation?
This is what I was gonna say for one. We're essentially writing for him at this point, but two
What it's like a teach it's like i'm like a father and my my
Retarded son has given me his first draft of his video
And i'm and he's in bed right now sleeping and i'm up all night trying to fix it and turn it into something. That's
The quasi understandable. I feel like if you asked him he's like hey, hey tonal when you said lopsided story objectives
Did you mean that when you know the character in the game is that conflict with the players intentions and goals?
This is their story goals. If you will he just goes you're like, oh, oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Definitely. Yep. That was it. You know, you know what? I just thought of when I was a kid like maybe we're talking like four or five
I would like write down a bunch of letters in a random order on a sheet of paper then go up to my parents and say
Are any of these words and they just be like yep, definitely
And I feel like that's how I feel like watching this video
I feel like my parents must have felt like trying to understand what gibberish I was writing on a piece of paper when I was
Four just holds it up to the audience. Is this a video essay?
Yes, total
So, yeah, this is this sentence is why these streams are so goddamn long well next one non-scaling enemies and zones oh
Um, yeah, uh depends on complicated
Wait, wait games do it poorly
Like also what he what does he mean by non-scaling of enemies and zones? Does it mean that some sounds get more difficult?
Or some zones would be made
Piss easy if you go there later if they don't scale right, but that's not
There's some games that can suffer because of scaling. Yeah, it's in some games you don't even need it if they're linear
Or or like what does he mean if you get better at the game some zones will be easier
When you backtrack, I mean, well, I think when he says scaling it's referring to the the actual mechanic that's found within games
Like like skyrim or oblivion, right?
Yeah, but I would I would generally say that Bethesda does scaling very poorly
That's one of the failures in video games
Well, you just said that makes more sense if you said if you even said bad scaling enemies and so poorly scaling enemies
I would I would be on board but non scaling
What's wrong with it not scaling? It depends on what the game is, doesn't it?
Yeah, it depends on how linear the game is
It depends on what you're trying to get the player to do because scaling strikes
certain directions
And then um, the one I skipped over was awful pacing from area to area
So, I mean that's just isn't that in his initial sentence awful pacing like he said developers will give it equipped standard
I smart gameplay pacing and one of the reasons is awful pacing from area to area. It's like wait
Not just the same thing
And then the last one is lack of proper save states, so what does he mean by that right?
Save states, um
Slave states, how do you have isn't unsaved states literally just binary like you can save state or you can't
Does he mean like there should be more saves?
Spaced throughout a level. Is that what he means doesn't mean you should be able to save at any time instead of having points
Correct me if i'm wrong
But I thought that's what a save state was where you just you save the current state as in you could do it at any
Point and an emulator. Yeah state. Well when I hear save states
It makes me wonder
It's like a condition like a state is like a condition
Like are you in a condition where you all this referring to the game save or does that refer to checkpoints? Is that what he means?
I'm assuming save state is an actual gaming term like i'm assuming he's talking about save states
So like you use that in half life if you have save states, that's how the game saves
You can just you press start and save and it'll like freeze
What you were doing and that's now you're safe and you can load it up
You could do it to the point where you've just you're about to get shot in the head
You save a split second before and now you've got a save state. That's a dead end
You can't even continue the game still just kill you every time
Ah, so mauler. I just remembered like back when we used to cover him more often how we pointed out that
um
He needs he just says all these random things and expects the audience will think of examples for him
Yeah, that's that's my theory on this stuff. Everybody comes to their own conclusion and then actually accredits him for it
So like we get all of our conclusions about all these subjects and then we'd be like, well, what a great video
It's like there's nothing to do with a video
We we had to do all this ourselves. It's like he just like brought up the conversation. We were the ones that actually did the work
It's a single player experience
This is like all of these points like every single fucking one
is very poorly
worded
Yeah, that's because you can interpret it in multiple different ways that don't necessarily lead you to the same idea
Well, that's every half sentence a pause. That's like 17 strikes for that small selection. Oh, jesus
17 strikes and this is the kind of thing that most people and this isn't even trying to be offensive here
Like most people listen to it. It's going. Yeah makes enough sense. He said backtracking. I know what that is save states
I know what that is
Uh, you can't even get through one sentence without having 17
Hey, man, it's like two sentences god misrepresented
Okay, so that's an average of uh, what eight and a half hell problems per sentence
We've that's like a sin every three words
So now that we've explored how old people in old developers couldn't correctly do smart gameplay pacing because of those five reasons in old games
He's now going to jump to assassin's creed. I guess you guys ready for this
Here's the thing. We did all that. I still do not know what his sentence means. No, I don't either
We we've guessed for all of it. I I at the point where I would have to ask for clarification because I have no idea what he
It's like
I'm a thrust kid. You're like his friend and he gives you the script for this video
He's like, can you just give him a run over and you just like send a text back. That's like
100 000 words long
Can I just call you
It's a couple of things i'd like to talk to you about
The edits are as long as my aquaman
You know how like in in kids work there'll be red writing next to what they've done the red writing is the marking
You just send him back there. See this all red with bits of black in it
He just you just send back like red sheets of paper
Yeah, it's like well
Like well v is okay
Hey
The first letter
First letters. All right metals in chat. I'm just going to read the sentence to him. Hey metal
What do you think of this?
The reason is this the developers of old games are ill equipped to standardize smart gameplay pacing into classic games due to backtracking
Lopsided story objectives awful pacing from area to area non-scaling enemies and zones and lack of proper save states
Doesn't that make complete sense to you?
Fucking weird. I'm gonna monitor for his response. I'm sure it's gonna break his brain
We're just gonna post a question mark
He's just gonna be like well, man. I shouldn't have come here if he's subbed he could use uh, use his own emote the
No, fuck off
You
Area to area non-scaling enemies and zones lack of proper save states. It was hell
Proper save states. What does that even mean?
In some of these games, let's fast forward to 2016
2015 game with so much data out there most developers can streamline their games to cut out all this nonsense and produce some more accessible games
Oh what nonsense that's out the nonsense
What what he said earlier
The the word salad that he said earlier
Cut that so that was the nonsense. Yeah
Oh my god, he's like he says cut out nonsense and everyone's like, oh, yeah cutting out nonsense is good
Yeah, I agree. Yeah, and then like the five people who listen to it all have a different idea of what nonsense is
And they're all like no, this is what he meant. No, this is what he meant
game should be good
That game should be good
I'm just asking for uh, at least seven
Glamorous coins for the uh use of his profile picture i'm i'm just gonna have a slave state of thrust
This is this is an actual image of dama thrust submitting his essays to the internet that's how it looks
Please
Produce some more accessible games a great example of when this happens is looking at something like I don't know uncharted 2 for example
Oh the delivery of that line
Okay, I want to be really pedantic here, right?
So, you know when you write a script sometimes you I don't know the three of you if you agree with this
But like sometimes you'll throw in a line where you like it. This is going to sound like it's not even scripted
Where you say something like um, oh, I don't know
you use an example like you just did so I you actually write that in your script with the
Assumption that you're going to deliver it like you would in a conversation with someone else
So if i'm going to say like oh, I don't know the fucking car outside. Oh, uh, I don't know
You don't need that in script. You can just nail it because it's a script
But you want to sound a little bit more human sometimes which is yeah, it's a part of script, right?
Look at the delivery he had for his human line. He threw in a human line, but he fucks up the pausing
A great example of when this happens is looking at something like I don't know uncharted 2 for example
Did you catch that? Yeah. Yeah, like I don't know. I don't know uncharted 2 for example. Yeah
Lied like a robot
This is how you would do it or how a human would do it something like I don't know uncharted 2 for example
No, I don't yeah
He has no inflection in his I don't know uncharted 2 for example
And you would you'd pause because you say something like then you have your pause because you're thinking
And while you're thinking you say I don't know and then there's another pause and then you you pull one out of the air
Yeah
If you if you like the thing that it's like your joe field you're like like uncharted 2 or if it's something you don't like
Like last jedi i'd be like like, I don't know the last jedi. He doesn't have any inflection in his voice
There's no emotion
That's what people ask me all the time if I script and I don't it was such a definitive example though
It's still look like the text-to-speech equivalent of a youtuber kind of
Okay, basically i'm told
I'm to efap you like I don't know
Far cry 5 guys you guys gotta see this
This will be going in the video
Wait the most relevant games that stand up today are the ones
Things
Oh my god, it's the greatest thing it's perfect. It's just
It's even better than I thought it would be
I love it
Oh my god, is this is this by the same guy who made like the bubble alien thing the bubble my god
I I
Person I don't remember your name dragon something or other. I love you. This is the
This is some really good. I know I could see that. I know that
Even got like the weird, um the hairless part of his chin down flat. It's great
It's
It is like big feminine eyes and everything. I love it
There's okay. I just sent it. That's the person in chat. I don't I don't want to fuck the name up
Bew did the dragon bow did
Bowen bowen
Bayven
Bayouin Bayouin. Is it Bayouin? I think it's Bayouin
Yeah, this little portion right here is the definitive example of how tonaled is an actual robot and he has to deliver
Human feeling I was just he doesn't know how he's just like
Hello great examines
And oh, I got it, right?
It is bayouin. Oh neat
Mahler, if you don't use this image in that april fool's video, I will personally hunt you down
This is the greatest thing ever I love it
Spans yet again
That's so good
I'm never gonna get over that. Let's listen to him. Try to be human again nonsense and produce some more accessible games
A great example of when this happens is looking at something like I don't know
It took did he say for example that an example at the end
Wait, did he rewind it rewind it rewind the tech great example of when this happens is looking at something like
I don't know uncharted 2 for example
great example of
For an example. Oh my god. Can you imagine?
Oh my god, you're right. Can you imagine if he submitted these to like a publisher and their brain just lit on fire?
This is why I love tonaled work like it's infinite
totals work
It's more work listening to it. It took the classic third person tomb raider style indiana jones treasure hunting formula
But cut out all the junk
What like what i'm sorry, but indiana jones is not a game though you're saying the junk in the movies
I mean there's probably indiana jones game
That like the fate of atlantis
Just the like indiana jones side of the lego one that i'll like tomb raider because I don't think they're all right
I'll actually go on the steam client instead of the steam browser
indeed
Oh, it looks like an arc couple
Oh, yeah, there is a fate of atlantis
The fate of atlantis the infernal machine and the emperor's tomb. Well, you know what you got me the atonal
I didn't know those if that's what he's referring to maybe there's nonsense in those games
Uh, they don't look very good. I mean maybe there was junk in those games that was done away with
tomato jones
What tomato jones too? What is this tomato jones demo?
What are you talking about?
I just like looked on steam for indiana jones like
Yeah, the jones this tomato jones
I don't know. It was made in 26. Oh my god. It's just an indiana jones, but he's a tomato with indiana jones's hat
This is awesome, oh look at the description it's just a stupid it's just a red tomato with a stupid hat
He he tries to look like a cool tomb raider rolling and jumping
Maps help him find all the treasures in the mystic castle or watch him die in many painful ways
I'm buying this that sounds awesome
I think it's just a mask for someone who wants to watch all the fruits die
I'm gonna have to stream that sometime that looks funny
You know how every single time we do nifa
Every single time we do nifa we break the records i'm pretty sure we've never spent longer than this on a video
Wait, what he broke up there? Oh, uh, I'm pretty sure we've never spent this long on a video
Like I think we've broken the record again. I would dare to say
We're at two and a half hours. What time is it two and a half?
We've done two hours and ten minutes at least on like four minutes of video
Okay
Because it's possible if there's more if there is more content in a single half sentence of a downward force video
Then there isn't any game that bungee's come out with since 2007
it's made
Classic third person tomb raider style indiana jones treasure hunting formula
But cut out all the junk the clunky controls the horrendous camp
Isn't uncharted one clunky a lot of people do
It's it's clunkier. I wouldn't say it's like unplayable
Well, it was definitely much better
I don't mean like clunky is implied to be like it is playable, but it's not perfect or what's not
Yeah, this is do we even bother saying he's just not qualifying any of this it's just like oh charted improved done
I
Mean uncharted. Well, here's the thing in charted basically just took a little style of game
And just gave it the standard movement of a third person
Action game. It's not like they revolutionized anything
No, they just made a more cinematic version of tomb raider and that's all it had to be
The junk the clunky controls the horrendous camera and the irritating. I like how he says that
Well, I like how he says that what are you gonna qualify this in pacing?
What does that mean? He just says it and you're supposed to know
Oh, I remember that time in uncharted do where the pacing sucked
We saying that it was fixed in uncharted, right?
Well, i've never played uncharted. So I don't know what the hell he's talking about. You don't know but
Pacing isn't it obvious? I mean pacing that is irritating idiots. I will say that uncharted ones pacing is
I mean, it's not awful, but it does get pretty slow in sub segments. Uh, a lot of people
Don't seem to like uncharted fours pacing at least at the beginning
But I would argue that for story reasons that was necessary people talk about tomato milk
Tomato rhino spider butterfly ghost milk
They want to know if tomato milk is better than lime rhino
Wouldn't it be rhino limes tomato soccer ball
We're following rhinos for their limes pinos
Camera and the irritating pacing and more importantly it's streamline player interactivity with a new take on
Streamline player act in a player. Oh wait, do you say player activity?
Player interactivity maybe I don't I don't recall and more importantly it's streamlined player interactivity. That was interactive
Player interactivity with what?
Player interactivity was streamlined with environmental storytelling, I think
With a new take on environmental storytelling to keep the gameplay moving. Oh, so that's separate. That's another thing
so he's saying it's streamlined player interactivity with
environmental
Just words, man. Just words loads of words. I don't know what any of this means
Okay
As technology moves forward gameplay interface
Wait, is he saying that uncharted dude did that because when you when you try to go in this level
The character is shaking around is the environment is changing
That's achievement to believe that's what it means. I mean uncharted 2 came out in 2009
But when you tell me environmental storytelling, I think of bio shock and that's from two years before
Also
He made this video in 2016, right? This example
Is is it relevant or?
Is it yeah, wait is the child too old? Does it count as old or
Was in charted 2 into 2016 also, uh charted 2 really uncharted 4 was 2016 or was that 20?
Wait, so he made a 2016 video
explaining that
The old game is still relevant
What uncharted 2 was released
2008 right but uncharted 2 it has a sequel
Yeah, why didn't he use uncharted 3 instead of uncharted 2 like if he's going for
Yeah, because games are irrelevant, right? I mean, yeah, I don't know what I mean. He is this
This is not exactly a
like uncharted 2
All the things that he's praising it for
uncharted 2 did not revolutionize
Those concepts those have been those have been around for years at this time
Yes
And also where he's talking about specifically like we never do
The building way down mauler and you're inside of it. That's a story
It's the story of story of this building
Who could roll on the floor?
That makes complete an utter sense all of the sense
You know if anybody ever does listen to the audio and revisions of these sort of things if we get them going
I wonder if they'll ever be like they don't know the length of the video and they listen to us this long
They're like how much of the video we got through by the way? Like just think about themselves
They'll never know fun fact go back through the stream and click at a random point and if tone
Tonaled lok is talking you win a million dollars, but none of them will so ha ha ha
Wait, wait, also I just want to point out
I want to point out this
I don't know the irony or stupidity of using an old game to imply that old games aren't are no longer relevant
Can can we can you appreciate that?
Hang on so uncharted 2 release date
2008
2009
9 yeah
So yeah, it's just it's 10 years old now, but he made this three years ago. I think yeah exactly. So
What are you what are you doing? What is old?
What is old man, what is old?
like
So anyway, and more importantly it's streamline player interactivity with a new take on environmental storytelling to keep the gameplay moving
How does technology move forward explain? I wouldn't describe this as environmental storytelling. This is like structural damage
Like didn't a red faction gorilla cutscene was it right faction arm again?
One of those games like did amazing breakdown physics when it first came out. It's it's not it's quite old now. I think
Is it red faction gorilla? Does anyone know what i'm talking about? Yes, it's red faction gorilla
When did that come out?
I'm thinking like 360 days
Right. Oh 2009. Okay, interesting
It was before uncharted 2 so that's something
But then
What predates red faction gorilla for like awesome physics in structures?
Even though this is all scripted in uncharted, isn't it? It's not even as impressive
Yeah, that's it's basically a slightly interactive cutscene
Tonals
And here's the thing too, it makes me wonder a lot of people think that um, especially playstation exclusive games
Are these revolutionary amazing cutting edge?
Breaking the mold sorts of experiences
And they're really not really ever in any way
And I wonder if he gets caught up in that mantra
which is why he's using uncharted 2 as a
He's trying to use it as an example for something that had already been around for years and years
It's just there's an interesting
Conversation to be had but
Yeah, you know, it is kind of funny how I mean, I like some of the playstation exclusives like god of war uncharted
Um, but a lot of them are so overhyped for being such lousy mediocre games or in some cases awful ones
like until dawn
Oh god, that's just one of like 50 examples. How about the order?
Teen the order 60. Yeah
Yeah, remember when everyone was like that game's gonna be the greatest playstation exclusive fucking nobody likes it
It's like this is what happens every time
PlayStation gamers like seem to think that
They have like these amazing cutting edge games and it's like no
It's almost a blood board. The only thing i'd say about that is just the frame rate. Uh, you mean like poor man's dark souls. Sure
Poor man. What do you mean? You haven't played dark souls or blood board have you?
He what do you mean? Have I put you can look at my steam profile. I was playing dark. I don't regularly look at your steam
Like you have steam
I do looking at it right now. Let's let me see how much I
on dark souls one
52 hours dark souls 3 82 hours. I try having blood board with dark souls
I have I just said I had 52 hours in the first one. What about second one the good one?
Oh, right
I got three minutes three minutes. Well, that's
That's not quite enough to appreciate its glory. So oh sure. But yeah, the the frame rate for
Bloodborne is like I can't play it hurts my eyes
But even then it's just even if the frame rate was good, it's like it's just this is dark souls bloodborne fans are very very thirsty
Yeah, well, I I can't really play games of 30 fps either like it it's just I mean it dips below 30 fps frequently
And in significantly important parts of the game
You do visceral attacks on big enemies and the game will fucking kill itself and you're like
Anyway, um
Yes, tonaled. I agree with everything you just said that's my coverage of that keep the gameplay moving
As technology moves forward gameplay and interface iteration become more developed interface iteration
And what does he mean by conventional gaming?
The boundaries of conventional gaming. Oh the walls kept tumbling down
Does it mean because vr you don't have to use a controller anymore. What does he mean by that?
Conventional gaming that should just be the response to everything down with thrust. What does he mean by that?
How do you in the case mauler, how do you think uh downward thrust would react to the game and her?
What do you mean? What would he like what could he even say about that? Like yeah, do you think he'd like
Enjoy it or think it was like one video. He'd be like this game is the greatest game
You'd have to he would have to check what everyone said first about the game
And then the next video when people call him out. He'll be like this game is the worst game ever
What's the meme? He he does? Uh, like this is the worst game ever and then he says like why I was wrong. Oh, wait
Wait, the battlefield video the battlefield 5 video has that in the description right now
I was wrong about battlefield
Someone in the chat's actually seen her and they said fuck you shithead
This is such a retarded fucking like description of what games will be like, but it's not even entirely unrealistic
So it's you me and bouncy ball studios that have seen that movie mauler
Excellent
No, I guess forward gameplay and three people have seen it. It's it's good now
Iteration become more developed and the boundaries for conventional gaming can break down
better save states shield us from having
I think I think he means checkpoints, right
by what
What when he said better save states
and then means
I I I would like to think so because they check
He's trying to sound cool. I don't know save states and checkpoints you'd agree right? They're two very different things
Yes, I think we're gonna get our uh, our squarespace outro at the end
Oh, is this too early for him to have sponsors? Fuck that up, too
Actually gonna get five minutes and 53 seconds
Yeah, apoben and davudu said he means checkpoints, but save states and checkpoints
They're not it's like it's like me going like this game doesn't have graphics and you go do you mean marbles?
Yeah, a save state to me implies that you are currently in a position in the game where you are allowed to save
Yeah, it's like an active thing like the save points in like dead space
Is this like not in I feel like an alien right now save state like refuse
Maybe it's because I play too much emulators save state means like you have a state of the game in which has been saved
You can load up
Yeah, so you'd like hit f5 in a lot of games to save loads
Yeah, and save state is just a it doesn't fall out
Uh three as well or fallout games tend to get you let you let you have save states
Um, you can't save while in combat and a check
Yeah, a checkpoint is automatic someone just said in chat that that is an important difference a checkpoint is technically a save state
But it's the game that performs it
And it's usually custom made as in say, for example
You run into a room and it says checkpoint you start gunning down people and then the checkpoint loads and you're outside of the room
And it's like oh the checkpoint was deliberately created so it's before the action so that you don't just get killed
But if you have a save state in the middle of the room getting fired out and you load it you'll get shredded still
Um, and you know, i'm just saying it is an important difference, but who fucking knows what the hell he's even talking about
Into lament over painfully long sections. I'll go back a bit
You don't cut tonaled out of context and the boundaries for conventional gaming can break down
Better save states shield us from having to lament over painfully long sections of traditional role playing
They save us from having yeah lament
Is the way he says it they save us from having to lament lament
Do you think that was like his first take like that was the first time he'd ever seen that word and he was like sounding it
like
lament lament
He says it's a robot he's like how do pronouns lament
They're like this is the correct. This is I cannot experience the emotion of lamentation
Let me let me get super pedantic for a second here actually better save tomatoes shield us from having to lament over painfully long
Lament he's it's like it's like an ice cream flavor is how we saying it i'd like a lament to scoop
He says it kind of like um, like it's the word of the day like lament and he flashes the word on screen
Yes, and that has the definition underneath it kind of like that
Lament pardon. I'm gonna get a bunch of faggots and that it has the definition of faggots on it
Faggot
It's been defined therefore non-offensive long sections of sticks for the faggot
Have you heard that? Um, it can break. Did you guys know that joke in simpsons? It's like one of my favorite fucking parts where um
they go to shelbyville the group of kids
And they're like getting kind of screwed up by the kids over in shelbyville
And so they decide to unite as a group because nelson's with them and milhouse and ralph and stuff like that
and so
They're like, uh, we we should do it together, you know, and he he has a twig and he says as a single twig
We are vulnerable and breaks it and then he picks up a whole bunch of them
And he says but a bunch of as a bunch of sticks. We form a mighty faggot
Together we form a mighty faggot
And it's like holy shit. What an amazing joke, but it's like oh shit. I guess they wouldn't be able to say that these days
Yeah, they gotta apologize for a poo for like 20 years ago, so
Is they still is he still in the show now or did they get rid of him?
I don't know. I haven't watched the show since it started getting bad like five years ago talented successful minorities. That's offensive
We form a mighty faggot
Martin said it was so funny
Um
So yeah mighty faggot
Right. Let's go back to the mighty faggot. Hi, how are you?
And the boundaries for conventional gaming can break down
Better save states shield us from having to lament over painfully long sections of traditional role-playing games improved interfaces
Allow for shorter waiting periods during loading screens and transitions from inner improved interfaces
Can help with the lower loading screen. I don't know if that's true, is it?
I don't know what the interface has to do with the loading screen
Why do you make so complicated when you just say like better loading better optimization is pretty much what he's talking about as a whole
I mean if I was going to try and make his point because this point will actually pop up in my fallout review
Is that there is no option to directly?
Use an item from the environment
You have to pick it up and then go into your inventory
Which is the interface and then use it from there
Instead of just directly using it from where you found it to pick it up
How bloated complicated insane does a user interface have to be to actually affect loading times?
Compared to the game itself, you know what I mean like a user interface just literal like a representation of your health bar and ammo
Yeah, I mean generally people those are two completely different things like a loading
The amount of time it takes to load
So we'll listen to it again now
But the amount of time it takes to load something is usually tied to what's being loaded in the fucking game
Not your user interface, but listen listen to what he says
I'm, sorry about this role-playing games improved interfaces allow for shorter waiting periods during loading screens and transitions from interface to gameplay
And create okay. Sorry. I don't even know what he's trying to say anymore
I need it written now again, but I don't want to do that again
No resist follow resist just accept it return it i'm gonna give it another shot
Resist a genuine i'm really trying to listen this time over painfully long sections of traditional role-playing games
Improved interfaces allow for shorter waiting periods during loading screens and transitions from improved interface
The interface doesn't affect anything unless the interface is like the worst thing ever made
Yeah, what does the interface can save time based off of its design, but not in loading screens
It saves time access
Environment performing actions you can't bring up the interface in a loading screen
You can't do anything in a loading screen except for like certain games like assassin's creed where you can run around and shit
That's kind of what watching a tonaled loke video is it's
It's it's an assassin's creed loading screen where you can run and run and run and run and run forever
But you never get anywhere
I just like the idea that like guys we're going to release assassin's creed as soon as you guys can get the loading screens down
So if you want to just take some of the bits out of the interface
That should help out
Yeah, you could take some of the bits out of the interface put them into the loading screen
So they'll go faster and then like what about if we just you know
Unload all the areas you've passed and lock doors behind them. They go. No, no, no, it's the interface
That's typically what takes the most struggle
Someone said I demand improved interface
But you can't help smaller so the load screens faster
Like I don't I don't understand anymore like
I'm trying to understand what he's saying, but it's just like what what the what the fuck just
Wait, so someone said it doesn't matter whether it's bloated or not
It's about how many times it updates with the health bars updating on every tick you'll use far more memory and so far
That's what I mean by bloated. So like every single kind of resource detection
Is on screen and constantly being updated that might affect loading screen
But I don't even know that it would because that would be
That would affect performance in game, right? Because it's reacting to the actual things that are in the game already rather than loading them all up
Yeah, I I also got what bothers me right now. How does he know in particular that the interface is what's
Hindering optimization for every fucking game. It's like it's like he makes a blanket
It's it's not even optimization in the in a gameplay sense, which is what the interface is tied to
He specifically said loading screen. Yeah. Oh my god. Oh, it's dumber than I imagined it. Correct
Well, this is the thing you can you can coast over this statement and just be like you play in a video game
It's like think about this shit. You're just like what is this?
Rabbit hole that we're running down better say they explain what he means. What did he mean?
I don't know
painfully long sections of traditional role-playing games
Improved interfaces allow for shorter waiting periods during loading screens and transitions from interface to gameplay
Oh wait also transition from interface to gameplay. What does he mean by that menus? Also wouldn't if you're playing on a pc
The the loading doesn't matter if you have a good rig, right? Well an ssd can yeah, they could reduce loading time
Yeah, I mean that's I think he's talking console specific. I don't know. I don't know
There's a place to be made that interfaces have improved the gameplay experience, but he doesn't give any examples
Yes
Yeah, and he's playing this honor that could be on the pc or or or around the console, right? Yeah, so
I don't
What are you trying to say?
For what fucking game?
So, um, we and wait also we need to made it also also
How is this relevant to the point he's making?
like
Are older games relevant?
Yeah. Yeah, so
Oh
Oh, no. Oh my god. Oh
These on consoles don't improve loading times. Oh really
so that's cool
Interfaces allow for shorter waiting periods during loading screens and transitions from interface to gameplay
And creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals
Creativity has allowed the passage of time
Already i'm like, whoa, where are you going with that statement?
Creativity has allowed the passage
Again
tone would look
In transition from interface to gameplay and creativity has allowed the passage of time
To bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals. What the hell does that mean?
creativity
Has allowed
The passage of time the passage of time it's like i'm reading out some ancient fucking tablet after I blow the dust away from it
Like what does the inscription say?
It says
Allowed the passage of time
Someone's coming quick hide in there. It's a bunch of nazis. Like we have found the temple of
Ah, there is the monument in the obelisk quick grab it and bring it to the fuck
This is chode's face it's like you look upon it and they melt
Or like has seen my machine it
Don't look at it. Literally just turn into the plot of the first assassin screen
I was I was getting for fucking the last talk or whatever the ancient inscription
Okay, yeah, let's no I need that sentence back i've got the first half of it
Yeah, creativity has allowed the passage of time and creativity has allowed the passage of time
To bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals
We no longer have to wait on our games for the most part. We're agonize over faulty stone age gameplay
Think about your sentence
Okay. All right to bring you an interesting iteration allow for shorter waiting period who did that loading screens and transitions
Oh, you want to listen to it again? Do yeah, okay go from interface to gameplay
And creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals
We no longer have to wait on our game. I think yeah, that should be enough. Okay. I got it. Okay
creativity
Has sorry
Creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our gaming fundamentals
So that is what the ancient inscription of al-habam
It's a bad translation of an old text
together but
Creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals
What I think he's trying to say is that as time has gone on
We've managed to improve what was fundamentally awesome about games before something like that. But oh the way that he has said this
So creativity itself as a concept has allowed the passage of time
So the passage of time has committed to this action that comes after this because of creativity
The passage of time has brought new
And interesting iterations on gaming fundamentals because of creator. I think he's just backwards. Okay, here's here's so many
Delete it it doesn't need to exist that's true
But he could have said the passage of time has allowed creativity to do new and interesting
iterations on
familiar
gaming fundamentals
to be
improved
Would be my first draft off the top of my damn head
That sentence and then I would say what is the point i'm actually trying to say here and then I would
rephrase that
Because that's awful. Like I mean maybe he talks about what those fundamentals are in a second things got better over time
It's like the simplest
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but instead you have to say like this
It's it's like the retarded child trying to sound smart
If you guys if you trade passage of time and creativity
So it says the passage of time has allowed creativity to bring new and interesting
Like doesn't that make more sense than what he's got?
I still I I think the passage of time is totally I agree
Yeah, but i'm almost i'm almost sure that he just fucked up those two words and he well those two concepts and he flipped them
Maybe how does creativity allow time to do anything?
You know, it makes sense for time to allow creativity to do something because creativity can't do shit without time
We're getting philosophical
Thank you total
Uh, you know what? I just realized
A five minute downward thrust video has almost as much content as a five minute jared video
You know, that's true
Every sentence jared said he's just like yeah something new to break down
Do you think tonal does jared's sons allowed
Passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals
We no longer have to wait on our games for the most part or agonize over faulty stone age game places
We don't have to wait on our games both of those things are not true
Okay, one people totally have to wait for releases i'm waiting for the next god of war
I will continue to loading screens, but those that still exists
Well, this is the thing now we're talking about optimization which still exists how is fallout 76 is loading times
Oh fucking abysmal. I had a loading screen that was over two minutes once and i've got that shit on an ssd
I don't remember when duke nukem, uh forever came out the loading times on that were actually horrific
Um, and then you I know that's not new but that it would have been new and it came out as my point compared to all
The stuff he's been referencing like punch out
um
But yeah bad mechanics clunky mechanics. Those are alive and well
like
Alive and well look at ds2
Look at fallout 76 we're doing fine
People have been waiting five years for a new alien isolation sequel and well we're getting one
Yeah on phones. It's great. You have phones. Don't you? Yeah, don't you have phones?
Also, he doesn't really tell us what the gaming fundamentals are. He just goes on to another point
He just says gaming fundamentals
Next night next sentence. Fuck it. Someone said al jared the mad propheta
Most part or agnize over faulty stone age gameplay systems and technology that holds us back from enjoying the game that
Technology that holds us. It's not even technology most of the time. It's just someone's
Misuse of technology even back then you'd have because this is a thing
Um
They were like castlevania on the nest, right?
There was a jump arc as in you jump and you're tied to a specific arc
You can't move midair, but there were games that were out at that point that allowed you to do that
So you can argue it's not the limitations of technology. It's the fact that those developers didn't
Code that in
It's a misuse of technology
like the holocaust
That's a relevant comparison. Yeah, well the holocaust was a tragedy
No, it wasn't people died. Didn't didn't didn't boogie. So there was a point
hundreds died hundreds
hundreds died by the second
Also, I have to point out if a game has fun has good fundamentals
Even if it's old or new people will still play it
Well, I think he's implying that technology has made it so that we don't face these same problems
We got from a lot of these old games. Is that what he's trying to say? Yeah
Yeah, but you'll still play those old games regardless if the fundamentals are good, right?
Yeah, but he doesn't even tell us what the fundamentals are. So we're guessing again
He gave us that list. Remember he said oh, yeah lopsided story objectives. Don't you know what that means rags you stupid?
I could speculate non-scaling enemies and zones even though they don't scale in dark souls and that's a very popular new game
And this yeah, that's its own that I mean enemy scaling right doing that right and wrong
That concept right and wrong is its own long video. I can't believe that's like a constant struggle
I can't believe dark souls three is almost three years old now. Yeah, I know right where does the time go?
That's why they called it dark souls three because it's almost three years old. Oh
They were thinking ahead
A tonaled writer
I'm a tonaled writer. I am. I am tonaled too. Harder than ever to go back and said, uh, the holocaust
Uh, the holocaust hundreds of loading screens died for read the little baguins
I'm enjoying the game
That is the reason why it's harder for us to go back harder than ever to go back and pop in our old favorite games
Like not even what do you know?
What I mean, maybe if you don't have a console anymore tonaled, what are you doing?
I so many old games. I still play
Wow, what do you mean?
I mean I can just boot up. It's all the point this video was hey some old games have clunky mechanics. Okay. See you next time
Like thanks dude
That would have been quicker and made more sense because I would know more than ever if anything as I play more and more games
I appreciate and play older games. That's the interesting part
So he's probably implying that as we naturally move forward in time technology gets better and thus reveals older games to be even more
Clunky as we go
But the funny thing is so many bad games come out now that we often pine for the good times
We're like, oh remember when this selection of get isn't it? It was like 19
I can't remember what year it was but there's like a year that several classics all came out at once or some shit
And the people often go like oh man, that was a good year for games and then they look today and they're like
I think he's just flat out wrong here. I want him to qualify some of the things he said
Wait downward first is wrong
What a hot take from rags himself. Well, that's the thing. It's almost like
Is he wrong or does he actually mean what I think he means he might be right
But he just means something completely different than what i'm gathering from his word selection
For downward thrust to explain his video. It would make a way longer video than the original video
Then the original video would just be pointless. It's like it would be irrelevant
But this is what I think of when people like you should be concise
I'm like, do you mean I should be really vague and make quick statements?
Like boss awakens isn't very good because it's not very well structured and the characters aren't very consistent. Thank you next time
Here's the thing if downward thrust actually made long-form videos we might not
You cut out why'd you do that? Yeah wolf cuts out
I think you did you say that you were able to finish it if he made long-form videos?
No, no, if he made long-form videos, we might not have to cover it. Oh, yeah. No true
The year was 1920 what when good games came out 1920 that makes sense
Especially those that harbor internally more of these issues
But harbor internally more issues. Do you realize he's talking about video games that he said harbor internally?
Why did you say harbor issues?
Harbor internally more issues as opposed to a game harboring something externally
Someone said we might know wolf 2019
Might know
We might know it's the reason hd remakes and remasters exist no
Table remakes and remasters exist for money mainly and I mean there's a shit ton of reasons why you might remake or remaster
Goddamn it tonaled those that harbor internally more of these issues
It's the reason hd remakes and remasters exist
If not for corporate wanting to grab more money at your piggy bank
But because of the realization that games need updates to remain relevant, you know, I mean remastering updates graphics
Yeah, it usually
I mean I could still play resident evil 4 on the game cube
I just
I don't know tone. What happened to you man? I used to come to you for all my gaming news
I used to trust you tonaled
I don't remember if I can trust you or not because I don't know what you're saying
You're like an old senile man, but people an old senile man now who's being redundant?
I remember when I thought I was the only one that didn't like
And then I met you mauler after you insulted me and you oh, wait
Did you wait? I thought we found him separately didn't we?
Yeah, I I think you brought him up one
You know who I hate and you said how much you hated him and I was like, oh god me too
I hate him too. It was like wow. I'm not alone
I don't hate him. He's hilarious
I mean I genuinely i'd be upset if he stopped making videos
I would too because I forgot about him. I mean it'd be upset. I'd be upset if he'd
Well, i'd be upset when he delete if he deleted his video because this is a treasure trove
This is episode six by the way to make sure that his videos last
forever
Cop save all of his videos and then individually email them to tone lope
Dude, what about what about if you?
Because because if what if you paid him you were like oh tonaled. I want to give you
500 to review my script for a video
It's like okay
And you basically just repurpose one of his old video scripts, but you cover it up a little bit
So it doesn't look quite like it and see if he's like yeah, this doesn't make sense. This doesn't
Funny how you should mention that turtle
This penmanship is yours
Or totally
If not corporate want to grab more money
At least he did actually acknowledge that remasters and remakes will be money motivated a lot of the time
Yeah, but a lot of remasters remakes will change game mechanics
Well, that that's a discussion on what makes a remaster versus what makes a remake
Um because like
Yeah, and they're all it's complicated
We I think I had that discussion with alex before it's like it's like a never-ending conversation because a remaster people typically look at it
As graphics only but then they'll have like ui changes
Maybe they alter the mechanic a little bit and it's like is it still a remaster now is it kind of a remake?
Some some ui elements are just graphics, but they affect the amount of information you have as a player
So they can affect what you do in the game
Someone said I just got here. Did you guys spend three hours on a six minute video?
Correct. You are correct sir. No, no, he's not he's not correct because it's not six minutes. It's five minutes
I think we started
After 29 minutes we did. Yeah, we did spend 30 minutes on memes, but the other two and a half hours we did
We still got 23 seconds left. Can we beat this video in 15 minutes?
That's the question if we beat this video in 15 minutes and that statement is not true remasters exist
If not for corporate wanting to grab more money at your piggy bank
But because of the realization that games need updates to remain relevant the way he says piggy bank is weird
Games need updates to remain relevant. That's not even necessarily true. No
Not really
I don't think so the games don't have bugs, right? It's more more like that
I mean if it's like already patched to completion, I don't think it needs more updates
Well, like super smash brothers mealy is like a game that
Does that need an update? No, most people prefer to play it over the new smash brothers. I don't know about the new one, but
Like I think a better would be I think a better term or a better thing would have been dlc, right?
not not updates
Maybe that's what he would argue is encompassed in updates. Maybe he's like, yeah dlc counts. Yeah, of course
of course
Yes, tonal this thing that makes more sense. It's totally what you've had
Game can't rely on charm and botness alone. It has to stand on its own. Yes it totally can
Absolutely. Yes
fake gamer detected
Fake games need updates the game cannot rely on fun alone
Yeah, I wish I was intellectual enough to just understand
And to remain relevant an old game can't rely on charm and botness alone
It has to stand on its own two feet at the time you hit the start button
And most old games do restrict us from enjoying them due to some of these reasons. They restrict us from enjoying them
What does that mean?
um
what uh
Like our video subscribe it's our
It's free. It's your feature more than one person to make
If i'm gonna fuck up it's gonna be on my own with my own two hands four paws, whatever
Someone said downward thrust is a fake gamer girl confirmed
I mean
like your opinion
When I come back to a game years later, I don't want it to feel old
Well, sorry downward
Oh, no, listen when I fucked your mother I didn't want her to feel old
Not tonals mother
Who are you talking about? Who are you talking about? Um, I was talking about were you just about to say everybody?
Yeah, every every mother on the planet every single person's mother on the planet
I don't want old games to feel old
Yeah, I don't even understand the gorilla there
I come back to a game
Years later. I'm sorry, man. I don't want it to feel old. Okay. Well, i'm sorry. You should stop being a gamer then
That's how we end the video at many games do
Many old games feel old. It's like i'm sorry, man. It's an undeniable truth
You can't you can't deny him that didn't fail. You are wrong. You can't be serious. You are wrong
Is gaming about to crush time explains everything or does it did you guys get into anything really old?
Much later than it came out
What I give you an example I was told I got into your mom way later than you came out that's oh
Yes. Oh boy. Oh, that is yeah, I give that a tip. I give that a thumbs up
um, yeah boy
so like
I was told to play banjo kazooie for ages and then I played it for the first time about six years ago
I want to say so that's yeah
Let's just say 2013 because I can't remember the actual time when the game when did the game release was in 97
and what game
Released
so
That's you know
15 years late and then so is like I guess he said
Some games feel but what i'm trying to get out here is just like, um, it didn't feel old quote unquote
But then I realized like well, this is all subjective. So what is even his point?
What is it to feel old exactly
Are old people relevant discuss
Well, I think your mom is relevant so
She is yeah, I visit her fairly often and we talk and we maintain a healthy relationship. You discuss things with the elderly
Ah, she's not that old
Well define elderly define
define define define
Okay, so that was the first downward thrust video when the intention was a potential like all videos today, um
That's gonna be a 24 hour stream, man, i'm guessing we should do
At least one more. Do you want to do you want to go with the the one wolf the the fabled one?
Do you want to I mean i'm a pro you
Yeah, sure. I'm probably gonna go take a piss real quick, but do you from who?
Yeah, we're doing that
Yeah, why can't you just make your own? Why you gotta take it from somebody else? It's kind of fucking communist
Look games of the past it belongs to everyone
Just saying this this this video once once wolf gets back. We'll we'll give it a proper intro because this video has got some history
Yeah, okay, i'll be back in just a second
So, um as that's been said
um
uh
Let me scroll up find it
That's entirely on you downward thrust. I can still enjoy older titles just fine
I agree many older channels are or any many older games are great and as I said before they have a novelty
To their age that I think is very appealing like quake
Is a very appealing game because you understand the context of when it was made
And you can enjoy that and savor it. It's like a trip through time
with your telescope
I've often more underestimated so much they can spew for hours at a time. I mean, this is the thing you never know
I don't want to drag these guys into the pits of hell, you know
I'd like to for them to be voluntary on that. We are gonna bust this joint
Ah, you know, it's nice to have a break silence
I was just gonna say like there's a lot of people out there who kind of want downward thrust to be
I don't know for lack of a better word exposed and like, you know
Let's let everyone know how bad downward thrust is and how he's taking advantage of it
Watch one of his videos
That's it. Yeah, like actually listen don't don't don't hear him
Listen, this is actually unprecedented. Look at the amount of notes. I have for one five minute video
Like this is I usually get this amount from like seven videos
we got
We got streamlining
People get older as time goes by we can get this when we look into a telescope back into time
Is that what he actually said that can't be the structure was it?
Yes, look like it's like looking through a telescope back in time a species of video game
A great example of this is uncharted 2 for example
He clearly didn't redraft like well, i'm assuming he did I don't know
Well, I don't know that one guy redrafted seven times and it took him 12 years or whatever and it was awful
He was wasn't 11 months is what he said
Something it was like basically a year and seven. It was the boyhood of video essays. Yeah, and i'm like, oh
Like you could have done better
She's just gone with your first draft and just roll the die
Why is he called downward thrust? That is a good question
Because he makes my sanity take a downward thrust beautiful
So nice to have peace, you know
No downward thrust quiet get some chips i'm gonna read some super chats
um
Super happy to finally be catching this live you guys are great and I listen to efap all the time give up the great work
You guys are fantastic. Good work. Uh, thank you demonic fork
Love you guys
Also, if you ever choose to do another jared video for fun, I would recommend his desk law vid the holy law should be seen by all
I mean I I wouldn't disagree with that
Close to dinner, but I just can't help myself
That's your opinion
Anime recommendation of the week mob psycho 100 made by the guy behind one punch man. Oh and gundam. I am blooded orphans again
Oh, I I like I like the first season more than the second one
That's why you have to shit on his parade
Sorry for being subjective my bad fucking dare you
Yes, um fair enough. We get a lot of recommendations, huh? Just
I don't know
Before we start like a a collection of them my friend wrote an efap fan fiction to commemorate this glorious podcast
What is this?
Uh
Just
What is what?
I mean i'll post it so that you guys could look at that while I read the other ones, but what what what what is?
That's
The situation but anyway guys, thanks for last no problem. What do you guys think of the film essay channel renegade cut?
I think someone else asked about that. I'm not 100 sure of who it is. I'd have to yeah that that name doesn't ring a bell
Thank you guys so much featuring
Uh, you fat fanfic. Oh, I agree
um
Thank you guys so much for featuring my videos have five dollars looking forward to the colonial marines live stream that is coming soon and uh
Yeah, man, you make some hilarious videos e-man gameplay, so thank you
Quick someone grab rags and chip him. He keeps running away from home not making videos. I have yeast. This is one coming
It's gonna be big
Time is subjective bilbo ragons
Big comment. Hi. Hello
Hi, this scullum wheels rag and prince fuzzy butt. Oh, yeah, that's uh, eric taxon reference. Nice iron maiden songs
Have better wheel building install. I'm not the fuzzy butt. All right. Well fine. We'll remember
I mean, I don't know if eric would refer to you as that you might do. I don't know
I have my rear end is like
It's like the smoothest suede
Good to know. I yeah, I agree
Yeah
I mean y'all know sent you a jared golem image mola
Oh my god
I mean no, it's probably
Where is it? Yeah, I can't I have to move discord for a second
Well, you know
Just in the downtime. I have to say
I find it insulting frankly that there are
1 865 people watching right now, but only 546 likes guys
Give us a thumbs up for the best podcast
Ever in history of youtube. Yeah, the more you thumb like even weekend warrior is doing a thumbs up
Perpetually, that's true. Yeah
What's my next my next video i'm gonna try to get it done this weekend
Oh, uh, I seen this guy in the chat. I I know I um, commented something. You must not have seen it
Uh p0801 underscore for some reason
Oh my god, um
Uh, thank you for getting me to read the dark tower i'm currently reading doing rings up next. Oh, there's a good ones
Any more book recommendations? Yes, uh the wings of war series by bryce. O'connor
I don't know the name of the series. I don't know if there is one
Uh, I only read the first book but the bear in the nightingale by katherine arden
The silence by d. Nolan clark the first law by joe abracrombie and the expanse by just james sa corry
Those um, I would also recommend
interstellar marines
No, but in all seriousness, um one of my favorite authors, um, he's a doctor actually
He wrote a book a while back called
one fish two fish red fish blue fish
And I really I like the linguistic stylings. They're narrative tripling
I like the prose generally the narrative
The structure of the themes in general, I believe was written by dr. Seuss was his name, but I would highly recommend that novel
It's very descriptive. It builds a lot of world building is done to it and it's very educational
So, um, this is a donation tyler presson asks your thoughts on blizzard shooting themselves in the foot with diablo immortal being a mobile game
Don't you have phones? Let them burn. They're dumb. Let them let blizzard burn
But yeah
Um
Do you guys plan on inviting other guests like razor fist or aden paladin?
Oh, yeah, both of them are absolutely welcome
Isn't that right wolf? That's the aden
Oh, yeah, I don't know who aden is but oh, yeah, you know the other one it's the other one someone you know
Oh, yeah
I know of him
That would be so fucking funny if we brought him on just ignored the fact
She's like la la la everyone's doing great
Um, yeah, I don't know who aden paladin is as for razor fist
I mean if he was interested there may be a few things to possibly iron, but yes, I would probably be okay with it
I'm, okay with pretty much anybody coming on even quinton
Even like I said at the beginning if quinn said that he'd only come on
As a fun time thing and he refuses to acknowledge anything in terms of drama
I would just have fun with it and i'd be like sure man
Whatever you say, um, the last question is wolf. What author do you find to be overrated?
Oh, uh, that one's
Oh god, what's his fucking name?
Oh, uh, well, yes, but I was thinking um
Who's the guy who wrote the fucking narnia books?
Yes, there is uh, yeah, yeah him him no cs lewis one of the most overrated authors ever
I mean, I mean, I don't really like any of his books granted. I've only read the narnia books
I don't know if he's written anymore, but he gets way more credit than he deserves. Honestly, the best one is uh, Tolkien
Because when you're really looking at the narnia books, they don't make much sense
Okay, I think god is the most overrated author
Thing is that thing is a train wreck that is true, but I I was talking well, I I was talking about uh authors that actually exist
Oh, yeah, that's right
Op event said anything people always ask me when i'm going to be back on efap at mola
Is that you saying you want to come back on that is that what that is?
We've already reached our the philippine. No, you're no, damn it
We've already reached our pacific islander limit for the day
Yeah, apa and he came on he already had he's had one and a half episodes. He came on to guest to talk about the um
The the abridged thing online and then all the comments were like apa bed is wrong about the abridged thing. I was like, oh, no
He's gonna have to address those controversial claims when he next uh comes on I suppose
um
Yeah
The the lone toke
Donated and said is pot is probably what downward thrust did before making this video. I don't
I must be missing the joke came all over. You see no toke don't understand the toke
Oh the lone toke is what he would have done. I get it now
Oh, okay. Have you seen the estatus fan movie? Maybe good for efap someday
What's that drawing of a puff from a cigarette a pipe typically one containing?
marijuana, what's what's what's
What is estatus? Oh the space marines
Oh, is it yeah star test the about five days ago part three came out
Oh, wait, I will link you part one and then you can watch part two and three
They're like a minute and a half each. Wait ab event said wait, how am I wrong? I don't know what you're referring to
Nobody here said he was wrong, right? We all said he was totally right some people in the chat said you were wrong
So oh shit about the fucking
Yeah, no, I you'd have to look at the comments on the episode
I I cannot explain it to you because I fucking if you remember I was pretty much silent in that section because I have no
no clue what was
Uh being talked about I'm confused get psa stitch on that's there's no reason why that wouldn't happen. I mean
Absolutely psa stitch is definitely invited
And then any of you lesser races. Oh wait, that's i'm reading that out of order
Okay
I was actually okay with reading it
No, he's referring to like a 1k is a lesser race than a 5k because it's a lot shorter the second japanese
10,000 year empire. That's a strength
Okay, well anyway, uh
so
Before efap even was a thing. We actually did the I jumped on
Just on a wolf's podcast a couple times and I think this was one where it was me you and rags, right wolf
That was the oh, yeah
And so we covered this
Yeah, we're doing drags dropped out at the fucking weird
Like he he dropped out before the and we'll not say anything, right? We're not gonna say anything
It's just that this is a very good video. Okay, very very good
And it's it's it's tome would look downward
Nine minutes dear god 9 11. No, it's even worse. Oh my god
And we're gonna so as we just we went over he just explained whether or not old games are relevant now he's got modern video games
They aren't better or worse. They're different
But are they relevant?
Oh, so that's not me asking to be on efap. My viewers asked me to reconstruct. I was just kidding
You're welcome to come back on we'll figure it out. Um, but it's strange that he would make when was this video relating to the other one?
Oh
I think this is newer, right? This is like this is almost 2016. This one is
Kind of gets on old video games. This is 2018. Yeah, this is two years later. He's moved on. Oh, okay
Yeah, he's made better arguments. Yeah, huh better analogies, too
This is this is top tier tonal bloke. Like this is he knows what's up
Games of the past are not games of today
no shit
Oh
It's such a just it's such a uh, it is a quote
No, no way
No way your microphone is doing the the thing again
Okay
Games of today. Thank you toan
Okay, now let's actually we could we've gotten past the initial shock so let's uh games is a once a tony yzo
Oh
Are not games of today
In fact gaming as a young kid 15 years ago was a lot different than it is gaming as a kid today
He just
Gaming let's talk about game. No
Let's listen that again kid 15 years ago was a lot different than it is gaming as a kid today
Okay
This is the intellectual gaming movement guys, yeah, this is the leader's video white letters on a black background
That's how you know, it's important
Oh jesus
I'm gonna have to take that down a bit. Uh-huh. I forgot when he started putting in all these unnecessary
fastest quest dude
Oh
Okay
shoutouts to fester's quest
I remember playing a lot of fester's quest as a kid fester's quest was a horrifyingly hard game to beat
horrifyingly
Hard game to beat. Well, it is out of his family. It's pretty spooky
It's like I think there was a suitable pulls to have there, but he took like way too long on it
I love the way he constructs. I remember playing a lot of fester's quest as a kid fester's quest was a horrifyingly
Hard game to beat this game did not fuck around
You could even call it one of the worst nes games to ever hit the tonal doesn't sway much does he?
Is that video is this the one where he says fuck and then later? No, no, that's another one
Is that what we covered was that?
Yeah, I think it is
We did cover that on my channel was the one where he like bleeped out
Fucking then like later on in the video like a minute late without bleeping it
Love totally
Hard game to beat this game did not fuck around
You could even call it one of the worst nes games to ever hit the market
Did he just play the same clips over and over? I rewound it. Well, I guess he might have who knows
bad controls a scary low frame rate insane difficulty frustrating map layouts and a where the hell do I go design
Checked all the boxes. It's easily one of the most blood boiling games ever to be released yet
I still find it very charming for my chump kid friends who never held an nes controller arming
It was quite literally though
Wait, sorry, what was the relevance of this clip? What do you say?
In games ever to be released yet. I still find it very charming for my chump kid friends who never held an nes controller
It was quite literally though impossible
This is quite literally impossible what quite literally impossible was that fester's quest
Literally impossible. I don't know. It doesn't even look like the same quite literally. It looks like a different game impossible
I'm sorry. How is like i'm not trying to like brag you but that doesn't look maybe if you let him finish mauler
He looks like he didn't finish. What does this clip to do with anything?
That he's making
Someone in the chat said what the fuck this game isn't even relevant. Is oh people saying blaster master. Is that what the game is?
So fester's quest is quite literally impossible
Then he shows a different game and and and something that's not even doesn't look impossible as well at the game's god day
I you're a very strange man total
What do you think like jaley how do you think he came to change the game?
What do you think like jaley how do you think he came to choose this clip?
Do you think he was like I need gameplay footage or something looks really hard in quest quest as fest best quest?
He was like I can't find anything. So i'm gonna have to go with
I'm gonna have to go with some other game doing something hard. Then he was like, fuck it
What what game should I choose and you're just like how did he how did he get how did he get to blaster master exactly?
Well, i'm sure you'll let us know i'm sure he will let us know exactly why he chose that
Never mind fester's quest was developed by sunsoft who had developed a few titles for the
Most notably blaster master see
See it's kind of it's another game
That's which was an hard difficult game just in its own, right
Fester's quest had a very short development in 1990 in a rushed end all be all deadline as sunsoft was forced
Isn't it this is totally nitpicky, but isn't it be all end all rather than all
End all be all do you guys say end all be all or be all end all end all be all
Like four times it doesn't even sound like it's a real phrase. Yeah that happens a lot with
Stop sounding real
You see tone look so many times. It's like wow, this doesn't sound like a name probably isn't
That's why we called it totaled it makes more sense
Fester's quest had a very short development in 1990 in a rushed end all be all deadline as sunsoft was forced to put out the game
By the end of the year probably to capitalize on the very busy bee winter bee winter the busy bee winter
Does that mean winter but with bees
You know, there are some people busy who think that bees shouldn't even be able to fly
I think we should set a policy that stops him from flying. Is there a bee and snowflake emoji?
I want to see winter bees if we got that
Got to be that sounds like all be all deadline as sunsoft was forced to put out the game by the end of the year
Probably to capitalize on the very busy bee winter christmas season
Oh, is he talking about just the fucking concept of like you put something out at the end of the year so we can get
bolt up for christmas
There are bees in the christmas
Winter bees everyone not the bees
It's
That always happens in the video game markets come year's end you've seen the story wait actually hold up hold up hold up
end all be all
That doesn't make sense how he's using it
Do you want to go back to when he uses it? It's end all be all is like
Right the best it's the the perfect thing
Like this is the end all be all you know basketball player. Yeah, just like world war one until world
Uh-oh again
I said it was just like world war one before world war two happened
The war to end all wars until the next wars like 20 years later
Fester's quest had a very short development in 1990 in a rushed end all be all deadline as sunsoft was a rushed
end all be all deadline
He doesn't know what these idioms mean i was about to say like what what do you think that he's trying to say with that?
I a rushed end all be all deadline
The rush most desired maybe
Maybe the ultimate deadline the deadline. Yeah, I guess like
Would you have a wouldn't deadline's a binary though? Like they're even there or not. Like, how do they how do you have a most?
You know more deadly. It's a more deadly deadline. I guess the closer it is to you. I don't I don't know
Okay, whatever tonals
It's forced to put out the game by the end of the year
Probably to capitalize on the very busy b winter christmas season in the shopping
In the video game markets come years has that you've seen this
He's hibernate
markets come years end
You've seen the story so many times beforehand x development studio. Is it supposed to be like x and y not?
No, no, no, they have they have why they complete the game
This is what he's trying to tell us he's like ripping into him even though he's just so much smaller than you know
No, no, no, no, no, he is a stupid his brain is like a dump it's good love you idiot
Why days to complete the game x development studio has y days to complete z game and once
What's made is sorry so but unlike many modern games, you know, this is we've already said this is way better than the previous video
It's much more coherent. Um
So far which is not a high bar
I guess he really did come some way after those two years
So well, I mean this is the thing the one we just covered is probably the most incoherent video i've ever seen from him
No, i'm kidding
Fester's quest didn't care about if you thought the game was fair or easy enough or tried to hold your hand through its most difficult hours
There was no tutorial or
That's that's because it's an old game
That's how they rolled before right saying old games are clunky is always saying
Yeah, is he saying that old games are yeah a lot of old games were just really poorly designed
Yeah, like festas quest
I'd like questers fest quest as fast as my favorite of all of the quests
Like atari et
The best game ever made
Difficulty ramping or content blockading for the sake of making it easy for you. No concessions were made
What am I looking at
Why did the vampire demon steal the bride from the caveman
No, no, this is ghosts and goblins. Yeah, I think what's happening
I'm assuming ghosts and goblins is gonna be relevant. Yeah. Yeah ghosts and goblins. Yeah
This is a good thing he put his armor back on
I
Many many games during this time followed the same mentality of them just doing whatever they wanted and not really giving you too much
in the way of instruction a few that
Playing that clip that's that's all the ness games, right? They don't have
Tutorials in the game not that I remember typically, but I mean they have the manuals
Yeah, this is the time where the manuals were the things you read an antenna. Yeah
Mahler apparently you skipped many super chats between giving you
Oh, no, I haven't. Um, the way it works is i'll read some that I had sometimes because they come in through. Um,
What's it called?
I guess streamlabs donations versus super chats
So it may sound like they're ahead of time
But I just read them off as a section and then i'll go back to super chats
Sorry, the next one is james more
um at 8 40 p.m, which was
How long ago was 8 40 p.m?
Fucking uh, yes, don't worry. I i've got them ready. I haven't skipped them
Too much in the way of instruction
A few that come to mind just on the nintendo would be zelda 2 ghosts and ghouls and of course ninja turtles
Which was god damn the hardest game I had ever played
I hate that swimming section with the electricity and then zapping my ninja turtles so annoying
What's that sentence?
Is zapping my ninja turtles
I'm pretty certain that he just fly like he swims right into that electric field like not even trying to stop at some point
I feel like that sentence was actually not scripted which was god damn the hardest game I had ever played
I hate that swimming section with the electricity and then zapping my ninja turtles. You see
And then zapping my digit turtles so annoyed
delivery on that seriously
Mahler, is there a new tone loc quote on your twitter?
Oh, i'll check in a sec. Uh zapping my
bailing
turtles
I'm putting this in
Such a weird statement then everything's a weird statement
Why do you like nap in my doesn't zap in my
It's like cool
Oh, it's uh, it's like another version. Oh shit, man. I've got oh, there's a couple things on twitter
I mean if I collect all of these now, it's gonna be like an awkward silence
Just keep it up on another tab and we'll come back to him. Okay, mom
Fast forward to the way. Yeah, I just want to see that did he actually deliberately hit himself ninja turtles. Yeah, he does. Yeah
Generally you don't yeah, it is annoying. I guess it would really annoy me if there was electricity
I just ran right into it and it hurt me. Yeah
It's not very sensitive. I really get to you know it
The the worst thing is he could have edited it to the part where he just got electrocuted, right? Why did you have?
Why did he edit a bunch of turtles with lightning bolts in the chat?
And the turtles look so happy too
They're ready for it
Get some excited zapping my turtle
They're getting shell shocked
Oh
As an editing thing just just cut to the part where you get shocked
You didn't have to show us the part where you you fake. Yeah, you gotta just cut right to this
Yeah, it's just so dumb
It looks like he's brain dead the turtle it just flows into it. It's just like
Speaking of brain dead someone in the chat said
Downward thrust sounds like a little kid with Asperger's imitating Elvis Presley
um
Does that sound like that to you guys? That's a pretty cool. I can't even imagine what that would sound um
Sometimes I guess
I think I think downward did it. Okay the way that he did it. What do you guys reckon?
Um, yeah, I'm setting up so it's just three images that are probably with
obviously the funny, uh
But you know, you can't get through an efap without memes it's impossible
Should we blame for this?
Our fans they work too hard
Yeah, I guess so this one's like a different quote
By the way bayouin i'm finding a way to use this uh, this downward thrust in the
Aquaman somehow
Oh, I can't see it i'm trying to save this stupid picture
Or not stupid picture. I love it
Games of the past are not games of today founder of the oh wait is the same one. Wait. Yeah, same one, but it's a different quote
What was the last one oh right
All right
So
Creativity has allowed the passage of time to bring new and interesting iterations on our favorite gaming fundamentals to total
Right
Like this sketch
Oh, it's not a sketch
Oh, it's a different person. I don't even know what's happening here. We got is that jared jesus. Jared
Uh, is that
What is that?
Running away from skull and wheels. I guess still running. What's on my face. Oh on my face is my ui
Oh, yeah, I got it strapped to my face
Uh, we got a rhino
Throwing up milk. It looks like it's throwing it up. Maybe that's how you actually milk a rhino
Oh and then objectivity is pointing right at it and then there's kylo ben on the hill
Our lord sweet lord jared
All right, I love back back to the wondrous the book of genesis is about how he created the world. Yeah, that's true. That's true
That's for today though and designing a game like this and omitting key features to help players out would threaten any new game
With a quick trip to the graveyard
What?
I guess you die. Did you say omitting? No, the game doesn't survive. It goes to the graveyard people wouldn't buy it
It goes to the graveyard omitting what though? What was he referring to?
Um for today though and designing an electric turtles and omitting key features
He said designing a game like this and omitting i'm assuming he said omitting omitting key details
Is he talking about like tutorials?
like
I'm sure you'll let us know what these details are
Okay, some of the chat said uh, did did efap invent live fan art?
I doubt it
We called me the first people to do that
Live meburi. Well, we we do have like some of the fastest
Uh artists in our audience though. That is true
Because come on. How long do you that is crazy that that downward thrust drawing like that's too detailed
It's like he like knew we were gonna ask him that like two days in advance founder of the intellectual gaming community
Oh
A new game with a quick trip to the graveyard obvious exceptions do apply but these games do represent the tiniest minority today
Why isn't that just a picture instead of gameplay? I don't know it was easier for him to get the picture than download the
youtube video
but um
To download the youtube video
So he's saying like dark souls isn't exactly
Hand-holdy with the game and so that's an exception to what he's talking about
I'm just like maybe there's a shit ton of other games that do not like engage in hand-holding or specific details and
explaining how to do a thing
But he's just like there's an exception he's like, okay
The other game I played a lot while growing up
Well, so you have to account for that. You can't just say like oh, it's an exception
It's like what do you mean? Why why isn't an exception if your rule?
Is that if you don't have these details explain everything to the player then they'll suffer it's like why doesn't dark souls suffer then explain?
I don't know
Weirder mouth advertising. That's what gets it through that presents the tiniest minority today
The other game I played a lot while growing up was final fantasy
My god, this is so unnecessary
For the game I'm in this this shit like because this thought it is all the videos
Like there was a point where you decided I do think it's just filler
I don't I think it's he just saw it somewhere and he just
Did it
What do you why?
What is the because?
I mean someone in chat just said best theme it's like why wouldn't you just start playing the theme of this game behind what you're talking
About if it's to do with wouldn't that be cooler than just going that'd be a little too difficult for him
Okay, that's fair enough. You know, what would be you know
What's the thing is if you're gonna talk about all these subjects just have one game up
That's related to what you're talking about and just have it be the whole video
Have it be the whole playthrough. I mean i'm cool with putting up examples that are applicable, but ones that aren't applicable
I don't know what the fucking point is. Yeah better to just get 10 minutes of straight footage that goes through and plays
Like saying final fantasy does not now mean you need to play the intro
I assume this is like the menu. Of course, it does. How else will you know what final fantasy is not a video game?
First it was the original on a nintendo and then I moved on to final fantasy 6 on the snes
Or I guess it would be three for the american. You're an american arguably
Arguably he said arguably. Hang on
It's quite arguably the
He said arguably
Arguably it makes me think of a pirate saying arguably arguably arguably arguably
Arguably
Arguably we see the shore and the heart yes arguably it could be a lighthouse or it was
pirate total
Well, actually my name is tone luke i'll be the founder of the intellectual
Diversify your investment portfolio gta5 did it fail
Why I was wrong about gta5
Far
Was the captain did the captain die or was he murdered
Captain wasn't just killed. He was murdered. He wasn't just
Modern video games aren't how can you tell he's got a beard sticking out of his chest
He was murdered
I've rushed me way lately. I'm going to change and then not change at all. Oh the uh,
The artist just said pirate toad luke i'm on it
No, I want to I want to see if he like makes something like brand new
Yeah
We're going to be sailing the high seas
Hopefully there won't be awful pacing from area to area and the enemies scale properly
Make sure you include his very feminine eyes. He can't he can't exclude that
I feel as if our mission has lopsided story objectives
It makes sense if you think about it. Okay arguably the pacing is not the standard
Argh
Someone said intellectual pirate
Okay, here we go
First it was the original on a nintendo and then I moved on to final fantasy six on the sness or I guess it would be
three for the american crowd
Is quite arguably the best final fantasy game to ever be released to many people
I would find it hard to disagree with this statement, but I would have to give that title as well favorite games pretty much ever
The original final fantasy had a permanent character decision at the start of the game defined character occupations in the class
You don't just choose not to be a pirate anymore
Can you choose a pirate occupation in this game?
That's that seems if they don't it's more of a lifestyle really it's not very diverse if you can't be a pirate
I'm just putting that out there
Vision at the start of the game defined character occupations in a class update system later on in the game
It was a massive explorative game in the style of japan's most influential jrpgs
And would quickly become one of the most recognizable games ever to be released
And most but I still felt the need to let you know with the title sequence
I love this video right now
So the reason he's talking about all this is probably because he's going to imply that this game is not even that bad now
Maybe yeah, because the whole modern video games aren't better and i'm just like this is like a direct counter video to the one
we just watched I was like
Everything is held back in old games
He kind of shat on old games in the last video. I was I was wrong about old games being not relevant
Yeah, the real question is did old games die? What were they made or were they murdered?
Wolf just changed his like familiar face
A familiar face arguably that's that's the cabin boy
How about you go below deck and walk on my plank walk on my flank boy
I have a picnic
I guess just worthy
Excuse me. I'm trying to listen to the intellectual gaming community found. Oh my apologies
One of the most recognizable games ever to be released and most people would say a pretty challenging. Oh, I like that section
Where he got into the sailing ship? Yes
Go see creatures here. We're getting close to the whole pirate section of the game
One of the most recognizable games ever to be released and most people would say oh look out a shark game that required a lot of
You as well
Final fantasy six which came later on was a sprawling phenomenon
I arguably final fantasy three can be interpreted as a six. The thing is
The third the other is accurate it's it's another place. Yeah. Yeah, I know but
Yeah, yeah
It's just still funny. It's funny though
I would I would have said that if it was my video and I said final fantasy six and the screen said final fantasy three
I would have been like oh we're to admit to the west. It was called a final fantasy
I'm assuming you just show the gameplay instead of the title. Yeah. Yeah, if this was final fantasy six in
wherever else it was released wouldn't there be a menu that displays final fantasy six and not three for him to use
You know what I mean? Well, yeah, exactly
You could have just you could well here if I google final fantasy six and go to images final
Fantasy. Yeah, there it is six and then I click on images
right there
So he could have just used that but maybe the reason that he wanted to use this title is because it goes
final fantasy are three
Somebody did a win to be
Just send it to you guys
It's adorable yeah, it's cute oh my god
I love it
Oh, that's cute. He's got bee milk. He's got a little star
It's literally the most wholesome picture anyone's drawn for us so far. That is amazing. So happy
I really like that. I like him. He's my favorite. He's he's happy. Uh, now back to tonal glow. He's got a scarf on
Was a sprawling phenomenal rpg probably one of the best of all time
It had a really cryptic and confusing story a really deep job
Why would he say that a real way a really a really deep job symbol or system and then airships?
Complicated story like why is that considered a good thing?
I think wait also
I think he misspoke when he said job system in ff
An ff6 you could get their characters to have classes, right? But everyone can learn magic
I I don't know what he means by it's a complicated job system
Because you just grind to get to to get to the next
You level up the magicide. Oh, maybe that's what he was meaning. I don't know
Well, I got confused when he said job system because you don't really change classes in ff6
You have a certain class, but you could learn certain spells depending on what you equip
People in chat are saying similar things. There wasn't a job system per se each character was a job
Yeah, yeah
So women am I right?
It had a really cryptic and confusing story he described the story as cryptic and confusing in a positive way
It's not a positive story also. That's like a criticism bad guy is
And story be very cryptic and confusing. It's like the bermuda triangle
are
All right, hang on
Yeah, he's using all of this as a jumping off point, by the way
He's going to get into the meat of the arguments here best of all time
It had a really cryptic and confusing story a really deep job system airships huge amount of side quests and pretty
Non-direct gameplay flow. What does airships have to do with a deep jobs and system exactly?
Non-direct gameplay. Well, you see airships are job creators. I'm almost
exhausted of saying mechanics and navigators and
Make airships great again carpenters and pipeworkers and i'm almost exhausted from saying what does that mean?
But he said non-direct gameplay flow. Can anyone what does that mean?
Non-direct gameplay flow is non-direct gameplay flow
Okay, wait, okay
There's a part in ff6 where it's pretty much you could go wherever you need to wherever you want to go
You come to that part in the game. There's like a direct
Half where you could do that, but that's not the whole game. I don't know what he yeah another thing
What does he mean by that?
Also, i'm getting sick of him saying airships but not displaying airships on the video
It's it's such a simple thing to do, right?
Huge reader response theory this tree
Speaking of pirates
Arguably
I named you be captain tolled sparrow
Just like final fantasy seven that would follow captain
May be the worst pirate i've ever heard of
But you have heard of me
Undirect gameplay flow. Oh wait bitch in game. It said non-direct gameplay flow essentially is open-ended gameplay like minecraft
Oh
Is that what that means are you sure
I mean, well, he's showing some like walking on a train
on a track
Yeah, this is not a great place to show non-direct gameplay flow if that's what that means. Yeah, exactly
You should have shown that part in the game
But non-direct gameplay flow if you're saying you just mean open world
Yeah, I think well, there's a part in the game. That's not enough words
Yeah, i'm smarter than that
Our non-direct gameplay flow is really smarter than open world
Or i'm getting sick of this guy
Guys send memes on uh twitter don't send them onto my discord because I can't I can't check discord stuff while we're live
because of the
Show the faces instead
Speaking like a pirate makes me want to pop in my blu-ray of pirates of the caribbean the curse
This one is the shit I know I haven't seen it in forever
Let's do it. I'm okay with that. We'll do it. We'll do it pretty non-direct gameplay flow
Just like final fantasy 7 that would follow you kind of had to talk to people figure it all out
And most of the time you lose your way you'd pick up the trail eventually and get back on the right track
All the while just enjoying everything the game had you could so easily spin that as a negative
I'm, so confused by his assessment losing your way is a positive
Yeah, you certainly because while you look at and you're enjoying it. It's like oh, maybe that's what he meant. Yeah
All right, then
The offer in fact you could complete so many side activities that it seemed like so much of the entire game was completely up to you
To find these styles of old games are much different today
And I find it very difficult to kind of go back to where you used to be as a gamer a long time ago
Wait, it's not the jrpg mark
Literally making the reverse argument to the previous video now, he's always like bad. I remember what games used to be good
Mother mother but but mother
You gotta remember mother
Creativity has allowed the passage of time
Accurations to our favorite game fundamentals like getting lost
Yeah, getting my favorite mechanic
It's not just the style of game or the fact that the jrpg market has kind of diminished as time
Because he said it's not just that stuff stuff now i'm waiting for the big point
What's the big point time has gone on?
It's just a general feel of how games were made back then
And it's the general feel of how games were made back then
Back when we didn't have the technology we have now our indoor plumbing
Back before septic tanks were a thing made back then and I just hired a wizard to make my poo disappear
Oh my god callbacks
We're bringing it back
It's come full circle
Of how games were made back then and what was required of you as a player to actively participate with the game
What was required of you to actively participate?
Isn't that like every game though
What was required of a player to actively participate I don't know
Fucking pay attention and hit the right buttons
Yeah
Or just play the game. I don't know
What the fuck
You're required to play the game. Would it be passive participation if you were watching a movie?
Or is it active depending on what your brain is doing like paying passive participation would be playing quantum break?
I don't I haven't played that game. So I don't understand. Well, it's like it's like literally 80 percent a movie
And a really bad one at that and 20 percent really bad gameplay
Well
I was actually like legit asking though. Is that actually how you guys would
Do the difference between passive and active participation?
Yeah, and the wires my input
It is active if the game plays without me needing to perform any action
It's passive like have you ever played like a game on autopilot as in something grindy and you're just tapping a button over and over again
While listening to music or watching a movie even and you're passively act
Do you know what I mean? Like you're actually pressing buttons, but you're not really paying attention
Is that to any given david cage game?
pretty much
The thing is though like active it's on a spectrum
But there's clearly a line where you have to press button
Yeah, or else the game just sits there
Yeah, i'm just saying like you can practically like fall asleep while playing some games because you're not really paying attention
But you could also achieve things at the same time. So it's like hmm
He's he's also doing the thing where he doesn't show us what he means by that thing he said
Oh, yeah, I mean doesn't be much to ask of him, isn't it? Come on. I just I just have a fetish for armpits
to actively participate with the game
Role-playing games today nearly forbid that you get lost and make sure to clutter up your screen with markers and quest icons
Your inventory with books see and this is where the motivation comes in so he would have he's aware of the complaints that run at
this time where
loads of people making videos about how a lot of modern open world games had a shit ton of um
You know directions and stuff like do you remember that screenshot that went around where it was like an assassin's creed screenshot
I don't remember which game it was but it's like they look at the mini map and there's like a fucking 100 dots
And arrows and shit for everything and it was like this is modern gaming
and then I think um
Even ego raptor did one
When he was doing one of his sequelitis videos, I think it was actually he was picking on uh, cool
Do you black ops well enough he was saying something like um, there's like seven different indicators for how you understand what you're supposed to do
Like they just don't trust players anymore. So this is this is an actual discussion. It's an interesting one
But tonal always grabs the point and just slaps it onto a fucking video where he's got barely any like supporting evidence
tonal just
What he says here is
He doesn't he mentioned how extremely cluttered ui can be in a video game and in modern video games, especially
but if we go back
and we look at
um
Let me take a look. Do you remember where we were though?
Yeah, 443. Okay. Um, let's see if I can find it
First it was the
Look at that original on and then are you suggesting that this is how much of the screen is ui?
I mean side bars
Is this a fair comparison like because the thing is like this is all just displaying information because this is the game, right?
As in yeah, but if we're if we're talking about modern games aren't better or worse
If it is if it's bad for one, but it doesn't even get a mention for the other when it was worse
That's something that you should probably talk about
Is there a difference though between you know, because like I like I said, I think he's gunning for the whole
A game will keep telling us where to go and give us limited options in terms of going places
He did say cluttered ui and I think he brings up this
clear
Because of how much of the screen space is cluttered up in ui. I agree if that is what he's saying
I thought he was gunning for the whole
Like you have like a quest marker in front of you like a little arrow
Then you have like an objective in the top right and then the bottom left isn't objective
Then a character in the game is telling you where to go
Like in all of those things do the exact same thing
I thought that's kind of what he was getting at but if it's literally just cluttered ui
then yeah, there's
There's a lot of games that do that
Uh
Quest icons or inventory with books and charts your quest screen with a detailed account of do a then b then c
It's not a bad thing. In fact, some of these systems are actually really good for yes. See what he's talking about here
So you got like notification notification notification
Hold breath zoom and then the top left is all those objectives
which
He's not wrong. He's just he's gonna take other people's points and just poorly
Execute explaining them like I said for games
But they just changed the way the games are played as opposed to how they were played a long time ago
See again
So you've got all those things on the mini map telling you exactly where everything is
So it's what people say is that is less about exploration and more about
Checking off a list of things
Yeah, it's not really exploring if you know what's there
And you're actively going towards it someone said you can turn them off
Depending on if you can or can't in the games. I think that is a fair counter
You can you know change what yeah, because because some games allow you to turn off the ui complete or the
HUD at least completely off
Yeah, and there's a discussion to be had between what like in a turn based game
you know where
You don't really need as much of the screen to be like arguably when you're playing a first person shooter
Then
then you have to
Be able to see a lot of the screen because enemies will pop up and move around and you have to be aware of your
Surroundings which aren't which aren't really problems in like a turn based game
It's worth saying that as games change and evolve and depending on the genre the ui's should change to dot to dot to dot
Or the evolution of graphics has left the need for ui's to be a certain size kind of you know in the
The fact that we've already highlighted that it's like oh you might be able to turn it off in some games
And then you'd be like what about the fact that some players want this some players need this?
And then it's like how bad is this ultimately and what to what degree is acceptable or not?
And he's literally just going to go follow fantasy was an open player game
And then the newer ones are less so and there are lots of games that are
What about games like there's a lot of games that have very minimal ui's in terms of how much like screen space they take
I think it's dead space. You know stuff like that. It's like one of the best ui's. Yeah, that's an awesome ui
yeah, um
That there's a lot of games where have
Stuff that's conveyed to the player without just you know icons on the screen
Um, I wonder if you'll get into those I wonder as well
The games are played as opposed to how they were played a long time ago
So comparing them the voices how they played a long time ago, and he shows a clip from sesame black flag
Well and plus he shows two seconds of the actual ui that he's talking about and then he swaps swaps over to a cinematic
That doesn't have any ui elements at all so that we can't judge like no
Let the gameplay keep going so that we can look at the point
Yeah trying to make but why is he showing that when he's talking about old?
He says old and he still he's covered some of this absolutely new ui as opposed to how they were played a long time
As they were played a long time ago, and it's like why are you showing this when you said that that's weird
So comparing them apples to apples doesn't really make sense. It's like comparing them apples to bananas
I suppose what it's not like they're not comparable
Even apples and bananas are comparable to some degree
I would call it something something more along the lines. It's like toast and butter spread on toast. You know, this is a relevant super chat
Uh, the original assassin screen 2007 could have the entire hud turned off and the characters would give you compass directions on specific building
Market, moss guard tower etc to use instead
See him for me
If someone says thank you for the ten dollars. Well, I I've just
Sorry, I was just
Going straight for his point. Um
It's if someone used that as a counter to me saying it's too much only the hud I I would have to agree with them
I'd be like, okay cool
If you can turn it off cool
Yeah, what else can I say like no?
So yes, uh good point fair point and I don't think that's going to come up in this video considering how short it is
But yes apples to apples doesn't really make sense. It's like comparing them apples to bananas
They're just different experiences for different time periods in our lives
And that's because the entire industry has changed so much
Back in the day simplicity was really hard to strive for because the hardware wouldn't allow it
Simplicity was hard to strive for because the technology wouldn't allow it
I would argue that technology wait
The older the older you go the simpler it becomes arguably right arguably, right
Arguably arguably
Okay, he might qualify that but that is okay. Okay. I let everyone's reaction just what?
Okay, yes, yes older technology was so good
That we couldn't make simple games. We had to make them as complicated as possible. It was so simple. It couldn't be simple
I don't know what he means
Really hard to strive for because the hardware wouldn't allow it wouldn't allow you to put in systems to make games
Oh theo said, okay, he means our modern standard for simplicity
But are you suggesting that he is saying how we look at what simplicity is today was not possible back then because of the technology
Has enough change to our entire outlook on there's so many questions for a statement like that
Let's just see if it's really relative
I mean in one one game that someone might think is simple another might think isn't as simple as another game
That's all relative really is he if I think wait
I think every downward first video should be a sub genre of efap like every boss a headache. I mean
It's so so
It's so dumb
Someone in the chat said the damn complexity of that pong I could never figure it out
Exactly, exactly
Yes
No pong. Oh
No, I thought you said pawn but even then um, once again, I misunderstand you but it brings up a good point
Chess is how old how old is chess and the technology and the rules of chess?
It's a simple game
But it can be be immensely deep and it's a lot of strategy that goes into it
I mean chess is probably what I would define as the one of if not the most complex timeless games
Like oh it's super fucking old and checkers is so far beyond it
The people who are basing at chess scare me. It's like how the hell did you know I was gonna do all of this
Don't even know the rules of chess
The sixth sixth I hate that word sixth century
It was invented in the sixth century really
Sixth century. Holy shit. That was an old game back in the 1500s
The good old days the most commonly held belief is that chess originated in india where it was called chaturanga
Which appears to have been invented in the sixth century a.d
Wait, so it came from the indians but although it is commonly believed
It is thought that persians created a more modern version of the game after the indians
But the white people took credit for it. Yeah, we fucking made it better
All right. We got we got some mema leaves to do here. I've collected them now. Oh boy
this one
But did the captain die or
Look at his ass chin, too
Don't look pirate aka downward spiral
I have a
I
Can't tell is that supposed to be rags. I think it's I think it's rags
No, it doesn't have the signature glasses and I and i'm clearly it's clearly you but I I don't have I don't say a scissors
Like it doesn't matter the tongue is out. The tongue is out. It's clearly a picture of you
There's no there is never there is no precedent for me having my tongue out. You know what? That's true
Someone in the chat. Okay. Now look at wolf's like a freaking die wolf in this one
Um rags mauler wolf tone luke. Why do I why do I look retarded?
Why did you keep me down syndrome
Well, it's because you say a scissors like a down syndrome patient would no no one would say that if they had the down syndrome
the down well, yeah the down syndrome
If they had syndrome of a down they would never say that
I don't like that. That's so funny
People get older as time flies people get older as time flies by you see
There is time size by it was this one am I forgetting contacts for this one?
The shocking turtle, oh, yeah, that's a turtle. I thought it was a snake head
That's a turtle. Oh
We have to get you caught up on your reptiles man true i'm i'm just terrible on reptiles that is gotta get you
If you were a leafy fan back in the day, you'd know all about the reptiles wouldn't it be a fan of mr
Appassioni calls his fans reptiles, right?
Oh, yeah
I guess the aisles
Uh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Oh
Back in the day simplicity was really hard to try for because the hardware wouldn't allow it
Wouldn't allow you to put in systems to make games easier for gamers. So we relished in the challenge because that was
Did he confuse difficulty with
Simplicity, I mean a simple game can still be difficult. Is that what he was trying to say? It's like
That whole sequence dude. Let me listen to it again. Sorry. I lost like it skipped and I lost the ability to pause
Okay, let's do this
For different series in our lives and that's because the entire industry has changed so much
Back in the day simplicity was really hard to strive for because the hardware wouldn't allow it
Wouldn't allow you to put in systems to make games easier for gamers
So it was like no, that's not how it works. You don't put in the simplicity
Things are simple by default and you make things more and more complex
Put in systems to make it easier for gamers
You think you just start making a game in five seconds later?
It's incredibly complicated and you have to be like oh shit. Oh shit. I accidentally made an mmo
I got to take stuff out until it's just pong again
So like if i'm giving him the most benefit of the doubt, let's just picture the thing that he showed
So you got like all those quest markers, for example
They couldn't put quest markers in old games. Is that a statement that you would agree with or is that?
I don't think that's true
I don't think it was I just don't think it was something that they thought of I don't think they I think they didn't want it
I don't think he's saying something. That's just so fucking nonsense. Where do you begin?
I don't know what he's referring to and I don't think he's right
I don't know what he's referring to and if I did I don't think it would be a valid point. That is
That's where i'm at
It's a complicated position to be in
Wouldn't allow you to put in systems to make games easier for gamers
So we relished in the challenge because that was what we were used to in the obtuseness
And what was required of us to get the job done is gamers. I think he tripped over himself when he did that word
He was like obtuseness for a second. He just looked himself up. What did I just say?
Obtuseness is a word
But it's just so awful. It's silly
It it not quick or alert in perception feeling or intellect not sensitive
That describes downward thrust perfectly yeah blunt in form not sharp
rounded at the extremity
Obvious reverse argument here
So he's like
You know by the fact that we didn't have the systems to be able to make all of the things that make it easier
But we're just accepting that that's true for now if that was true
He seems like so we relished in the challenge
It's like you could easily have someone say like yeah, it was much worse because you didn't have simple
Systems in place to actually telegraph where you're supposed to go what you're supposed to do and old games just had no direction
You could easily make that argument
I mean i'm not i'm not making it but he's he's implying that it's like a good thing
What i'm trying to say with his cmcd
Sadly, yes, he does have a large fan base. It's 300 000
I don't know that all of those people are fans
Yeah, but his view to sub ratio is
It's like it's like around the mundane matt view to sub ratio. Yes
Yes, like take a look better than that, but it's still bad. Well, yeah, well, yeah true
He hasn't done anything quite as stupid as monday. Matt
Um, yeah two days ago. It's all over the place three days ago 30 000 views
One week ago 220 000 views two weeks ago 150 000 two days ago 74 000
It's all over the place
Video is apparently not very well received
With blue said loft my ass off of stroke scrolling through dt's videos and he has a video titled battlefront two's
Battlefront two's final insult. Oh, yeah
Yeah, I remember that one
Oh, that's beautiful
Is that one for us?
Okay, this is this is funny in here in the comments of his recent video. I was wrong about battlefield five
They're cutting that says
Downward thrust is the type of guy to buy bottled water then release it back into the ocean
You would buy a box of matches and throw them into the forest you're home
I saved you
Uh, he'd be he'd be like those people that put turtles in the ocean when they're supposed to be fresh water
And then they die
Oh my god, so oh god, is this the one no, no, uh, not yet, but rags is comment about how he looks a bit
Uh down I gotta I gotta
Oh boy, what have I spawned with that?
I'm just gonna say this could actually kick off into something if we're not careful
Behind the shame
I don't even really know what they're trying to get across they're implying the bosses
Yeah
They hide the downside my
Mike said that would thrust the catapace to try and drown a fish
When I said I was gonna get down tonight, that's not what I meant
Um
All right, you went downs tonight get down
And what was required of us the next step is the next step at evolution very difficult games. No, that's asperger's
Stop talking about the right. It's a movie. Geez make games easier for gamers
so we relished in the gamers because that was what we were used to in the obtuseness and
What was required of us to get the job done as gamers and very difficult games
Dreamers wow that statement awful sentence. Oh
Tonal what are you doing? That sentence was the linguistic equivalent of
a
Just like a wet paper sack
full of mulch
You try to pick it up and it just falls apart
Just it's I mean it is a thing
but wow
I mean that sentence must have been really hard to I wonder what take that was
I don't know rags. Actually would be one wouldn't it? He just does one take i'm pretty sure he doesn't give a shit
So it was obviously his first take but
Calling it mulch will be an insult to mulch. That's true. At least mulch is useful. Yes, exactly. It helps
Kid during this time forced us into battle hardened warriors games. Well, I gave back to you if you
warriors
Yes
I'm sure like the dude's
Basement wearing his wolf shirt eating a cheeseburger playing dota is gonna be a battle-hardened warrior
Remember when quinn called his warriors rags by it against like object subjectivity or something?
I don't know. We will fight a holy war is what he said
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Warriors come out
Play
We do come out and play though, I don't fucking hide like a bitch
Warriors I can't believe he said that I hit play but nothing happened
Going on washed together
Wait, is it not playing for you? No
Oh, hold on. What time is it for you?
uh
526
Playing games as a kid during this time forces into battle hardened warriors games only gave back to you
Playing games as a kid during this time forces
Average no, it perhaps is not just
less complex, but they just
Playing games as a kid during this time forces into battle hardened warriors
And what was required of us to get the job
I'm just leaving very difficult games
Perfect. Is it?
I've gotta go scroll apostle the memes
Oh, no
Games of the past
Games of the past not games of the future
Okay. Okay. Let's see if it works now. Uh, it's loading for me
It's just your opinion
Games of the past not games of the future. Come on tone
I'm not gonna sit in what if their game's a future past
They're never truly gone what's happening for you guys right now
Uh, it's just pause. Yeah for me. It's yeah, it's at 528
Did you try refreshing the page instead of just have you tried turning it off and on the game?
Well, yeah, I turned it off and on again, which is even more thorough than a refresh
Okay, i'm gonna play it and we'll see if that works
Anything no
It's not playing for me
Oh what it's only playing for me. Okay, maybe we just need to
Together page wait. It's paying for me. Also. All right. I'll make a new one. Okay, so it was at 526
Games is a very professional podcast
Let's just open that fucking thing with that line. Give me the pads like I keep hearing it
Stop it toad
Watch together destroyed with facts and logic
Oh, it loaded the default video that's a good sign
the cat video
It's like laggy as fuck right now, I don't know why come on tonaled
Oh
Is everything just
I mean a great now watch together is getting down syndrome. I mean I i'm able to talk to you guys
So that means my connection's
Okay playing game
Wait, there's only two people in the watch together for me as well, by the way
Yeah, it's only me and you
I'm as a kid here. I'll go during this
Only two people are here
Wait, oh, no, no, no, we made a new watch together
Okay
Yeah, go in the link on the thing
I will go to the place. Also. I thought you said that my stream was offline. I was like, oh no
Oh, no
Suicide grunts of america says that picture of downward thrust is amazingly accurate. It's actually terrifying
Wait, which one the one that I use?
Um
Okay, let us continue this and what was required of us to get the job done is gamers
very difficult games
Playing games as a kid during this time forced us into battle hardened warriors
Games only gave back to you if you manned up and you beat them today. That's probably not the case
Exactly. I give a lot of free. Wait, I guess we missed that sentence. Huh?
Never mind. Um, we have battle hardened warriors. Keep going probably not the case
Games today give a lot of freebies don't they and there's a lot less thinking that goes into playing any given game on average
Perhaps it is not that they are today less complex, but they just make it easier for gamers
They are today less complex. That's such a weird way of delivering their lives less complex
Or no, wait here. Let me let me go back
I
Got less thinking that goes into playing any given game on average
Perhaps it is not that they are today less complex, but they just make it easier for gamers to experience them
What okay
to translate I think he's saying discuss take take game a from the
1990s and game b from the
2020 whatever they are both just as complex objectively. That's just something that a wizard tells us
However, the way in which they deliver
information on how to beat them both
Is different because of sensibilities that exist at the time or technology that allows you to translate these things to people
And so the game in 2020 is actually easier to beat than the 1991 even though they're exactly the same
Just because of stuff like where it's like hey go over here. Hey use this to do their controls
Now someone says someone in the chat says let us continue
Balboa Baggins that is an interesting point
But I don't know that that is what he's actually saying and besides there's a lot of reasons why there's something like that could happen
as in
There's there's a whole bunch of reasons why games may or may not have been harder to beat or more complex before versus you know
like it's
What is complex in a game exactly? What does that mean?
Is the amount of mechanics or how they mix with one another
I mean, is it the depth?
That you could reach with them and like height to the skill ceiling difficulty and complexity two different things too, right?
Because I think he confused them. Yeah. Yeah, it's possible. Don't really know what in the fucking world he's talking about
That's my assessment
But they just make it easier for gamers to experience them call it dumbing it down
Call it concessions or just calling it designing games easier. Call it whatever you want. I call it waffle
Call it whatever you want. What is it though? What are you what are you referring to?
You know that thing in your head that you're thinking of that's exactly what that's it. That's it. Call it what you want
Yeah
So yeah for all the audience members out there who think that there's some issue with new games that isn't in old games
He's just told you yeah that thing you're thinking of that thing right there that nebulous thing. That is the problem
I agree with you. That's it. Like and subscribe. This video is right. So he was on point
The general trend over the last 20 years has been such and there is a reason for it
The gaming environment has changed today. Everything seems to be wrapped up in a strange
to show for this
Okay. Yeah, it is like the game industry is giving birth to the new games of the future
Notice how it wails and screens it's symbolic
It's symbolic
You know that co is a great way to read
Gaming industry. What a strange. Yeah, because etsio like it was the the rebirth of assassin's creed
It was the second game. Yes
Has changed today everything seems to be wrapped up in money and it makes the experiences just different you can
Listen having a baby costs money. That's why when he said money
Back in the day back in the 90s. They used to make games just because it was a creative process
But now it's like about money
You know, there's no i'm gonna have my baby quick grab my white dress
It's not
It's not like everybody was concerned also about making money back then too
It's just it is now and you know what that did
Do you guys want to know what it did when they became more obsessed money? It made what it did what it did things changed?
Oh, wait, what things things specifically didn't stay the same
They did not I can confirm this
More things change legends. No, I don't know what to call it. So i'm just gonna call it
Snails happening. Where did we go?
pregnancy scene good. Whoa
We need to see it's important for context he makes the experiences just different you can pay for a lot of
Look at the lady smirk
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait been money and it makes the experience
Just shit that fucking video out just squeeze that shit
I love it
Just also look at my massive tatas. He has this
Screen this this thing for saying things were different
Like what what is what is this? Yeah, this is a bit different. I guess you're right
You can pay for a lot of what you used to have to work for
No longer can you beat the story mode with ryu in street fighter 2 and be rewarded with his alternate costume or a new color
Way for a stay. So this is another thing he's read about but he doesn't this is a completely non-secret irrelevant point
Wait, you know the idea that you have like pause
Sorry, I don't think
Did street fighter do have a story mode?
It's just arcade, right? The well, is there a con is there a story mode in the consoles that I don't know of
Um, okay
Yeah, so, you know like easter eggs and cheat codes and stuff
And skins a lot of people have made the the point that those things used to be unlockables by doing those things in games
But nowadays they're microtransactions and other stuff. That's true. That's fine
And he's just thrown it in here because it's an actual like interesting trend people have noticed and talked about and he's just it's
Just haphazardly thrown in and it makes him sound like he's actually got some kind of credibility here
Like he knows what he's talking about
What are his references you used to be able to go through the campaign
One guy and unlock another guy so like there's gonna be a game
Where that's still the thing you can do these days
You're gonna have to that's a whole video on its own. Honestly
Stage you gotta pay five dollars for it or spend 50 hours of your time earning enough fight money
Fight money. What is he?
What game is he talking about?
I also think it's more of like
Uh, the freemium model what he saw sure
He could be referring to so many things. That's the problem. Yeah
That we don't know of yeah
Oh my god 10 50 hours of your time earning enough fight money
He's just someone wonderlust has been lost I would say but perhaps it was unavoidable
That's one big black guy
What Tyson that's Mike Tyson
Playing game that was irrelevant. Yeah
Games back in the day meant playing a strange place to put your dagger vagina dagger
Oh
Playing games back in the day meant playing a much smaller pool of games made by a limited amount of developers today the hyper
Limited there's no way he played all the games that came out when he was a kid
That's just not a thing that happened the amount of of course by a limited amount of developers
It's not an infinite amount of development. It's always unlimited
This is it reminds me of uh, who's the person who said
It was it was cinema sins. Wasn't it who said something like um
It's it was infinite or is close to infinite. This is like how do you get close to infinite?
I'm so weak
I suppose this you could say it's a metaphoric statement
It just means an immeasurable amount
Distribution and game development has spread out of control like wildfire seeing more in different games being developed
Player known battleground selling this like is a bad thing
Just so weird
This is just the reverse of the previous video nature of game distribution and game development has spread out of control like wildfire
Seeing more in different games being developed every single day spreads out our interests among more games and more game avenues
And this is a bad thing. Why?
I mean he's gonna he's gonna seal this off with a quote. So it is evil. No, but it's not bad
Different. So yeah, just just make sure everyone's following
He's saying the more developers and more types of games getting released so much
It's just we're all just sort of you know
We're playing loads of games and we're getting spread a bit across all of them, you know
That's I think that's where he's going
He spreads out our interests among more games and more game avenues for each and every game developed today more players
Become disseminated across those new products
It's like when bilbo back in sex spreading
This is the origin of the bilbo mean everyone
He put a bilbo mean
A bilbo quote
Like he legit inciting him like he's a philosopher
And then wait
Wait, also how how is many people playing many games?
Necessarily bad. I know this is the thing. There's so many layers to this being stupid
like
First of all, why are you quoting bilbo baggage in relation to modern gaming industry problems? Like that's just weird. Secondly
um
Bilbo's context he's talking about losing his humanity having been with the ring for so fucking long. He feels stretched and thin
Tonald is talking about
How you play so many games you're stretched across them and thus you're disseminated at the cross and you we haven't even clarified
That's an issue yet. What people do
I think that's true have more games to choose from but they only play as many games as they want to play
Like do you guys play more games? Have you played more games this year than a particular year of one of your childhoods?
It's it's like this like oh, no, there's so many games this year. I have to play them all. Oh, no
Where I was going with that was like I played more games when I was younger than I do now
Even though there's more games available now than there was when I was younger. So it's an interesting liar
Anecdotal evidence, but I mean
Yeah, he just he just throws this up with the screenshot
What are you doing total?
Most bizarre fucking segue and it's like this helps my argument. It's like no
Someone said I understood that reference Bilbo back
Like when Bilbo back and says spreading not enough butter over too much bread
Nobody has enough money for all of them and ultimately that means today game sales are you didn't have enough money for all the games
When you were a kid either
That's always the case for every time there's been a game like
I what what does he what is he trying to do here? It's just
But there's more gamers in that massive pool to buy the games
Yeah, so that's true. That's why there's so many successful genres today
Yeah
You could argue that the reason there's so many more games because the industry got bigger because more people got invested in interesting
interested in it
I don't get it. Oh
Oh god, it's just
I agree. I believe if we look at the evolution of video games ecologically like this
ecologically
By that what does he mean ecologically the video game what okay
So i'm gonna read you out of the definition of ecologically in a way that concerns the relation of living organisms to one another and their physical
surroundings
Does mean ecology is the branch of biology that deals with the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical
What in the hell is he talking about?
The games they live let's let's listen to it again. What is he referring ultimately?
That means today game sales are harder to swing especially when so many games out there are free
I believe if we look at the evolution of video games ecologically like the evolution of video games ecologically
I just
I don't know what how much how much good faith do you have to provide him to be able to interpret economically?
That would make a lot more sense
Ecologically
You don't even have to like I don't have to change that when I put it into my parody video
I don't have to change it at all
It's in its natural environment
Covered in cheetos on the bottom of the floor you can find the answers that we're looking for
Gaming in the 90s was a much more simple time
The community making them was smaller allowing them to share a bigger piece of the pie
Less hand-holding was needed. So what is that? That's
slow down
Because he said what do I have to do with the games being better or worse?
They could have a bigger piece of the pie and then he starts talking about hand-holding. It's like whoa. Whoa. Whoa
Bigger piece of the pie. Do you mean they could make more money because they had a bigger portion of the market percentage of the market
But then but there's more money in the gaming industry now than there was then
you know like
A big hit now will make you more money than it would then I would imagine because of the amount of people who could
purchase the game depending on how much the game costs. See this is a
It's a complex subject
Less hand-holding was needed more risk could be taken for more creative projects as they weren't afraid of you running off to another game
Or another device. I don't is that how bad destiny 2 looks
Or is that destiny 1's probably destiny 1. I don't know wolf answer that
Uh, I don't know. I think venus is in both games speed it up put it forward a little
I didn't play destiny 2. I didn't take in for more creative projects
I don't know if they weren't afraid of you running off to another game or another device because there wasn't that many out there
I'm, sorry. Well, they took more risks because they wouldn't worry about people jumping to other devices
Are you kidding me? Like the console wars were a thing from the moment
That there was console wars if you don't know what I mean, like they of course would what could be considered about the device
That ties into the market share thing. It'd be like do you release your game?
On all of the consoles one of the consoles the kids it's hugely important and you'd be like they didn't they could take more risks
They didn't care if you went they wouldn't care if you didn't you went to another fucking day is like no
Wasn't there more selection back then for company consoles because you had it's just the three nowadays, right? Nintendo sony microsoft
The
Consoles obviously but back then you had those I guess microsoft wouldn't count because the first one was xbox, wasn't it?
If you go back to let's just say the n64
What else was out then? Was it ps1?
Yeah, chat would probably know this better than me
I can't quite remember but let's put it this way they had warring fan bases then too
Yes, the snaz versus genesis. That was like a actual thing sony versus sago versus nintendo, but not really
Consoles were a thing for the video consoles beyla thrust
Soulja boy's console line
Yeah, no, they would be concerned that you jump priorities, uh, I love you just
Like if I told you I was gonna make a video about the idea of taking risks when designing video games
I don't know how I could make it in less than like an hour
Like there's so many things to cover about why a developer would take a risk
And how publishers control you and how the history of a series requires that you stay within certain things
Like there's so much talk and you just casually it's like they would take risks back then
They would take more of them because you know, they wouldn't care if you jump to another device
Modern video games aren't better or worse. They're different. Like how does what he's talking about relate to that?
Yeah
I don't have an answer for that. Yes
If you lose tonal response, so when you think of it like this and you add it up some of the allure
I think has been lost through the years. Oh, this is definitely destiny one
Oh wait to be yeah
Over a little bit device. I remember playing on this map about a hundred thousand times to get some stupid helmet. I didn't care
So when you think of it like this and you add it up
Some of the allure I think has been lost through the years not to say it's worth when you think about it like this
Some of the allure has been lost think about what like what?
What did you make?
You've made nothing
Today it's just different because much of the fun in games has had to be scaled back
How would it be?
If you said the fun had to be scaled back, but it's not better or worse
How is it different?
How is it? Wouldn't that just be worse to scale back fun?
Even though that's not even quantifiable like
Tonaled I believed in you
Fun in games has had to be still
replaced by the assurances garnered by gaming's most conventional safety nets
steering genres to a place of common ground teaching players by giving and not requiring
Evolving what we used to know to make it more suitable for gaming's more streamlined palettes today
That's not to say that today is bad
Accessibility can be great and many games out there have been taken to a place
Accessibility, isn't that just strictly good?
What's the what's the downside of accessibility also if normies get in
normies
Anyway, what is if it's different and it's not necessarily bad. What was the point of making this video?
To prove that point it's it's to prove that it's okay guys. It's just
Like it's not even
It's like a headache to watch these videos because just
You know
How long have we been going? We're nearly at five hours five hours
Oh, i'm gonna have to call it really soon. I think I think it's safe to call it at the end of this video
I think that'll be it. Yeah, this will be the damage thrust efap. We need to make it to five hours. Otherwise the
And we'll cut off again
Well, if you cut out a lot, you need to stop doing that. Otherwise we'll
Oh
You'll fire me
And replace me with what jay the one who's never seen a movie in his life totaled loco replace you with
You've already halfway there. Don't you do that? Also, don't you jalo just because he hasn't seen like a thousand good movies
That's fine. Yeah. Yeah, speaking of which chat you want to know how many movies jay has managed to not see, you know
Good old sin sins. I'm sure he had a list for you to list like his one or two. Go go ahead
No, no, no, so everyone sin sins, you know the rhino milk guy jay
He has not seen saving private ryan terminator gremlins brave heart the lion king gladiator
The last samurai king of heaven the green mile the shawshank redemption rain man
Good will hunting black hawk down taking treasure planet the fox and the hound atlantis tarzan robin hood the disney one
Not the other ones. I am legend and the lord of the rings trilogy
You're not crossing the house. He has not seen anything in his life. I haven't seen like three of those
I've seen all of them, but I guess i'm a film obsessed flim flam. So I don't really
Waiting for him to be like shut up though
Oh, wait, wait i'll be back for a bit this is cyber bullying
Yeah, i'm just saying, you know, how do you not see the lion king?
How do you not see the lord of the rigs? How do you not see saving private ryan?
I mean, these are like the movies that everyone on earth has seen
I have to wonder is he like does he like literally live in the middle east or something?
Psa you guys should actually see those movies if you haven't seen any of the ones you just listed go if you yeah
Yeah, let me let me reread the list so that you can make sure that you aren't as sinful as jay is
So again
The movies that jay has seen and that everyone on the planet should see is in a slower in a slower pace
saving private ryan terminator
gremlins braveheart the lion king gladiator the last samurai kingdom of heaven the
Director's cut by the way. The other one is bad the green mile the shawshink redemption rain man goodwill hunting blackhawk down
Taken treasure planet the fox and the hound atlantis tarzan disney's robin hood. I am legend in the lord of the rings trilogy
That's 23 movies
23 of the biggest movies ever made and he hasn't seen any of them
He said terminator 2 is more important. I've seen that yet. You have seen that that's
Your high you get a gold star for that sure, but still terminator one is really good though
Yes, I actually think two minute one
Seeing it before two kind of makes two even better like a lot better. Yeah
So terminator two is amazing and it is better than terminator one
looking at one's a classic man looking at uh
Arnie's the bad guy when you go into terminator two makes it really satisfying knowing sarah's character
Uh, you know change and the reasons why like it
Just go see all those movies. Okay, let's go
Also, yeah that we start a conversation now as to whether or not terminator one or two is better nice one wolf
Well terminator two is objectively better
You can think otherwise you'll just I love both of them
But yeah terminator two for me. I have a lot more to say for why it's oh, yeah
I've been I binged watched all of them and then mauler had me watch genesis and I wanted to die
Watching genesis but terminator one like I was surprised by how good I found it
Terminator two is still uh way better. But terminator one like
It's way better than I remember it being so jane
Harahan said only one out of three people in america have seen the original star wars and it's the most viewed domestic film of all time
People don't watch things
Remind me. What does sin sins do on his channel?
Is it uh review movies? I mean in fairness
Not technically he reviews film reviewers
True so but he would be a film critic still because he does defend me. I think so. I think so
I think
The funny thing is is we asked him like you've seen the dark knight, right?
And he was like, of course i've seen the dark knight and it's like you can't say that you can't say you you can't say
Of course i've seen the dark knight when you haven't seen 23 of the greatest films ever made
I would just come on just cut the sentence down to when you haven't seen lord of the regs because they're too
I would consider them in the same genre of these are films that you should have seen if you haven't
Um, don't don't let people find out
It's gonna be weird
I mean, hey, you've got a lot of fun in line for you though
You know if you actually do yeah watch the movie you got 23 amazing films to look into what do you think of black hulk down?
I love black hulk down. I thought it was awesome. Black hulk down is awesome. It's not historically accurate. Awesome
I love how legolas dies by the beginning
All right, yeah legolas obi one who else is in it there's a bunch of like huge
Also, uh, we have a video
So let's get this dog back to say that today is bad
Accessibility can be great and many games out there have been taken to a place we couldn't even have imagined
But some games and some genres he had a screenshot for witcher instead. You're a strange man
I would love to know his this is a bad example of a good game though his editing process
Wait, did you say it was a bad example of a good game?
No, no, this is the yeah
I mean this is you don't put mass effect andromeda as an example of something good
Yeah, it's what I was trying to say. Is that what he's about to say it but some games and some
Fall away shoot up and spit out the other end
Well, he said some games have fallen away chewed up and spit out and then he's got andromeda. I'm assuming he's referring to it
You know, I should amend that I should amend that
I was I am legend is probably not in list of the greatest movies ever made
Um, I we were just here's how it started
Um mauler told me one day jay hasn't seen saving private ryan
And I was like everyone's seen saving private ryan
And then we started going through a list and that was the whole list that we asked before
We were so sad that we just couldn't ask him anymore before we were like
Depressed and I am legend was just part of that list of the movies that he hasn't watched
Yeah, I am legend is not one of the greatest films ever made by any stretch. It's just part of that
I mean, yeah, I think it's I think it's decent. I don't think it's great. Um, but yeah, I was saying it sucks though
No, I mean
Yeah, the the ending is kind of dumb, but you know
There have been taken to a place. We couldn't even have imagined but some games and some genres have fallen away
Chewed up and spit out the other end just to make sure there is so nebulous
I have no idea what he's referring to it even says that imagine
It's possible to make the most money as possible. Wait, wait, I think
And it's a bad game that's what yeah, I think
And spit out the other end
Just to make sure they are as convenient as possible to make the most money as possible. Okay. Wait as time goes on
Mass effect enjoyment that didn't make so much money. That's why they cancelled it right though. They tried
Yeah, they tried
Um, like is it still a cash grab if it doesn't grab cash? Well depends what their intentions were
Games continue and will continue to change through both demand man. That's a great clip
So, okay, so he's comparing demon souls to dark souls and how it's changed
But he showed a bit of gameplay from demon souls and then a cutscene from dark souls
Like this could be any game for anybody who's unaware
I mean that could have been any game for anybody who's unaware if you're gonna go through the trouble of going and getting these clips
Don't have a guy run forward 10 feet see an enemy and then turn around and run away
He's like you have the clip just cut out a section where he's like hitting something or dodging an attack or
Something come on. It's just it's the exact same amount of effort
To survive games of the past are not games of today
Thanks for repeating the same quote it was that good that he repeated it twice oh no that's
Games of today playing them today isn't the same as playing them years ago. Even if you were the same age
It's not just the game
Wait the same ages
How would you?
Exploding my
Gift wait wait
Yeah, it's like it's the tim and eric meme heard the minus thing. I know you're talking about. Yeah
It's like it's
What the fuck maybe I heard him wrong
Games of the past are not games of today
Playing them today isn't the same as playing them years ago. Even if you were the same age even if you were the same age
How is that possible?
I I um I have some information the total time is Lydia
Um total we don't go by the we don't go by the race of arrival
You know that terrible movie that everyone thinks is good for some
Oh god
Um, wow I
Such a fucking yeah only Jared doesn't age
It's like wait, what is this? Is this it? No, it's not never mind
Hey, oh and hurry up. We're all still I can guarantee you
But the reason what he was trying to say there was if you were the same age as someone who had played those games
Back then that's probably what he wanted to say
But instead he implies that we can type travel and I just thank you to an old go even if you were the same age
It's not just the games that have changed
It's the attitudes that go along with them and what they're willing to do today games are more advanced
And they've gone down new road not necessarily it depends on what games
More advanced, what does that mean? You know, like uh, what's a simple yet popular game?
I
Caught for tress. Hey, does cuphead count?
Or is that considered complex?
I don't think it's complex. No, I don't think it's very classic. Just do checkers or tetris or mario
Doom wolfenstein 3d. They said arrival is great. I'm angry now
Uh, well jay, i'm, sorry that you like really terrible movies filled with idiot characters
Get a stupid plot twist that makes no sense if you actually apply three
Humans are the forerunners
No, I genuinely hate that film so much to the core of my soul. I remember when I walked out
No, shut up. I remember when I walked out of that movie. I remember when I walked out of that movie with my friend
I like that movie so much because the language is in circles and time is circular
And I was like god that's the dumbest thing i've ever heard in my life
And I watched it again because I was like am I missing something?
And then I watched it again and I was like no no
It's like it's like even dumber than I think the main character is retarded the military
I swear to god. I think the people who made that movie have something against the military because
The it's the dumbest people on the planet
I mean they listened to like alex jones and they're like, you know, it's a great idea
Let's go against our commanding officers and try and kill the aliens for no reason because alex jones said to
And then there's that stupid plot twist
That makes no sense because it relies on so many different factors like in a totally alternate timeline
It's I i'm serious if I ever if I come back when I come back to youtube
I'm making a video destroying that movie same with annihilation same with aquaman. Yes, the three a's the triple a
The a trifenta of terrible films that everyone likes in their wrong
Um, so you're wrong if you want to have how about bird box we could
This is the bees. That's the triple bees
Um bee box so the bee box if we could do that sometime j could watch the film
You could watch the film then we have like a little debate on you. We can like watch the film
We can watch the film together. Jay. No, no, it has to be live when you disagree
So that everyone can watch you guys rip into each other
Oh jay, you're gonna die
I think jay's probably just got like the fucking ball of stressed face right now
Jay, you haven't seen tony three amazing films
So here, you know, your opinion is invalid
You liked black panther
He he still likes black panther. I believe he just you you like black panther because you haven't seen good movie
Do you think seeing lord of the rings would make him hate black panther?
Um, I think if he sees one good movie, it'll make him hate black panther
You see intimidated too
If he sees two good movies he'll hate black panther
Yes, that offer will just sit on the table then jay, uh, you can come on and wrestle with uh
With with the happy wolf as he's as he's known the rest calm and happy wolf too today games are more advanced
And they've gone down new roads. It doesn't make them better or worse. It just makes them different
but old games
Complicated because their technology wouldn't allow them to be simple
Wait rags, so what you're saying is the video doesn't make sense, right or worse, dude
Donald was spitting philosophy and you guys weren't picking it up because you stupid it just makes me mind what he's selling, man
Yeah, no, it's over. It is over. It's over man. No, uh, no square space ad
Square space was like
Gaming jay jay said i've seen good movies i've seen tlj
And then he immediately said like that was a joke, by the way
I'm pretty sure it's clear but it can always be it's like yeah, he's gotta be careful saying that jay
jay look
You you you you've you've used your face cam in your videos you're you're like a pencil
What are you?
Rags rags with the jay defense
What are you rags hiding here to shit hiding your down syndrome behind the glass
No mercy tonight, hey, why don't you step into the chroma zone
Jesus christ look at twitter. I am looking at twitter. I've got a selection here, but I don't think any of them
They're not what you're looking for wolf
Is uh, just keep monitoring I I
Shout oh, you know, it's arrived
Dun dun right. I'm done. We'll do it. We'll do it lost
Yeah, we'll do it. Okay the way that we do it
No, do it now
I i'm doing it now, but i'm doing it. Okay the way that i'm doing it
No, you're not. Okay, so this is number one
People get old as time passes toby mcquire ripoff. That sounds like a
You just got straight up
And what I think genuinely could sub up his channel to a t that's oddly cropped in
How do you two fellow gamers basically
Uh, that's a good one
When I said I wanted to get down tonight I was this was not what I meant. All right, but that toys my play ain't not at all
How many memes to get through
so many memes
Video games of the past transformed me into a battle-hard
What movie is that taken from
I I don't know. I've never seen that
Maybe it's troy the eagle someone see troy or vikings. Maybe
I'm trying to like go just based off of like the armor
The shields back there like roman style shields and we go. I don't know
You are the worst favorite i've ever heard of but arguably you've heard of me
It's perfect. Oh, it's perfect bale in here. That's great. That's great
All right, well, I mean i'm gonna read out all the super chats and of course we will be able to reach the end then
um
This is gonna take a while
That doesn't mean it won't be amazing. So, um, hey wolf as much as you've been
As much as you used to be into halo, how do you feel about halo 3 odst?
It's a personal favorite of mine though. It was overpriced for what it offered at the time and some plot issues
I like it
It was a question for me
Yeah
Yeah, I know but he's gonna get value out of this damn super chat whether he likes it or not
Well, my value is better than your value
I do not think that is correct. Um, I do so
Yeah, well, that's just your opinion. Shut up doggo
So halo 3 odst
I didn't know how to say doggo in a pirate voice
Okay, so yeah halo 3 odst, uh
I liked it but it was
Well, halo 3 was the last time bungee ever gave shit about anything they made
And halo 3 odst was kind of like the crux
Of the well, not the crux. That's a bad way to say it. It was just like maybe y'all end all no
No, it it was the prologue to what would happen to them because they falsely advertised that game
Uh, they said it would have new multiplayer. It's even on the
It says a new multiplayer. It's just a couple new multiplayer maps for halo 3
Which is really stupid. It's really overpriced
The firefight mode
That's not multiplayer
Yeah, it is
Well, it it is multi
It there is a co-op mode, but I I mean like multiplayer. Yeah. Well firefight is on the box, too
Yeah, it's multiplayer. Yeah, but it also on on the box aside from firefight. It says new multiplayer
It was talking about a new multiplayer system
Like you know the competitive halo and they totally lied about that
Now the actual story I liked the world I liked the characters I liked
Um, it's just really overpriced and falsely advertised
Well
There are objective morals the definition of good is that which supports individual freedom slash rights and supports society at the same time
It must be consistent and based in truth. Yeah, but you can draw it back to the whole um
Who defines those as objective morals?
sort of thing
again, complicated subject not necessarily disagreeing but it would just
a weird thing to sort of try and access on efap because of the
the pirates I would like to
I would like to read. Um
I know sam harris believes in objective morality and I recently have been reading a sam harris book. Uh,
I think it's called waking up. It's about spirituality without religion. It's pretty interesting
I'd like to see what he has to say about objective morality. I believe like a lot of the basis is something like uh
Isn't it I don't know if it's related to like a fundamental idea of pain or
conflicting
Preventing someone else from doing anything they wish to do as long as it's within
They aren't affecting anyone else. Isn't that like one of the fundamental things?
From sam harris specifically. Oh, no, i'm just saying like in general a lot of people try and go with oh
Yeah, I mean my my whole thought is if it's harming someone else mentally physically or emotionally then it's morally bad
And morally repugnant in my eyes. Um, I would like to see
Uh the argument for objective morality from bad to break up to somebody
No
No, I mean it depends well if you have the intention to do harm to them, that's one thing
Um
Yeah, that I don't think I mean again it's a really really
Yeah, I don't really think too much about
Uh objective morals in that way, but it it's an interesting topic
It's just like I I guess part of it's like a lot of the objective morality thing comes from like
A religious standpoint which I don't agree with
But I would like to see I do I am interested in the arguments, uh from a secular standpoint
I just haven't really looked into it Nathan breaks that i'll gladly come on to explain objective ethics and then someone else said objective ethics
on earth
An earth and rind and mary rothbard a rind i'm not sure but
I mean I think that society's um
What society says, you know, we're not too concerned with on efap. I mean
It seems I just don't think that a lot can be achieved by us talking about it versus
Pursuing people who actually talk about objective morality
Professionally, you know, it just seems a weird thing for efap to go over
But I mean if people wanted us to we could like explore it with a
For an episode we have to cover somebody who just does everything wrong as soon as
A downward thrust makes a objective morality video. We'll jump in
Um, hey mola, did you see that just right put out a video criticizing fantastic beast too funny how quickly he abandoned his new standard
Set by tlj
Didn't be heard
his thumbnail for
What's the movie by steven spielberg with all the references ready player one
Um, yeah, he's got this bad writing on it. Yeah, it's like
How do you even define it if it's just you felt it was bad? What's the point like it's yeah
I don't know considering he thinks everything is subjective. I don't think you could nail him down until he says the word objective
Like everything he says up to that point is subjective. That's how his mind works. It's the same with joseph. What now?
uh
Just writes like he's he's releasing more and more videos talking about bad writing and things and then it's like but I thought it was
All subjective and he'd be like, yeah, it's my subjective opinion on what's bad. It's like, oh
Okay, um god howard it just works
Are any of you into bird box? It's being heavily compared to a quiet place. I would love to hear your thoughts on the film
So who here's seen it?
I have I have to
I'm assuming wolf and rags haven't I have not I have no interest in watching it, but I watched the red letter media on it
Yeah, I I consider it like a serious middle of the line movie
There's loads of bad and then things that I think are pretty good too
It was okay. It was yeah, it was okay the way that they did it. Um
But it's getting a tad over and underrated like at first loads of critics were saying it's amazing
And now loads of people on youtube are saying it's like the worst thing on netflix and i'm like both
Sides of those arguments are just retarded
Um, it's it's better than a quiet place. I would absolutely argue
but then again
I feel like the packaging for a quiet place makes people a lot more
Um is amenable suitable in that sentence there like they're much more
Okay with a quiet place because of how it seems like it all makes sense
It's easier to figure out how much it makes sense compared to a beard box because beard box actually has a strange structure
It has two timelines at the same time while yeah, the quiet place is very linear
I don't know me and me and wolf
Feel as though more could be done to share that a quiet place is extremely flawed
And perhaps something will be done about that in the future
Yeah, perhaps someone get on making an efap slash jojo meme video
I've agreed to disagree on the pants thing. Oh someone was suggesting you guys agree to disagree
I don't this is why I don't wear pants
I agree with that statement
Um in dying light the main character is having an acid trip thinking she's a zombie while she's trying to give them a shot
To stall the virus in him
Is that relevant to oh, that's because of the clip where the syringe appears magically, I think
So if that's an acid trip, I suppose that makes more sense
I never got very far into dying light thought it was kind of boring
Can we just get get into the pants since you wait?
What can we just get into the pants since you've gotten us worked up?
Not getting into pants
Not doing it. It's like pedantry olympics lose the pads guys. Not a big fan of scissor response theory to be honest
Um wicked an old school adventure game with lots of sarcasm and themes your dulcet tones would make for an ideal narrator more
How can I make this happen in my opinion?
I have tried to basically do a full no on voice acting just because I want to
Spend any time that could be spent on voice acting just doing video editing. But I mean
I don't know. Like I said, I'll probably
Because i've already said no to other people asking i'll just just have to stick to the principle and be like i'm sorry
But casting call there's a website called casting call
Use that you'll find what you're looking for. I guarantee it. There's loads of talented people on there. Um
Trying to get work. So
Upper per casting couch. No, not that one
Um, but thank you. I asked for advice last month that you guys misunderstood me. Let me clarify
I got my waifu when I was 16. She's 14, but is fictional and doesn't age. I am now 25
It is creepy to keep my waifu or okay because she's grandfathered in
Why do you have a waifu at the age of 25?
The point here is that the point here is that we have we are presented with monetary reasons to misunderstand your question
Huh
Because if we don't understand it then next defap he'll give us more money to ask us again
I'm actually
so
Repeat the question i'm confused about this
I got my waifu when I was 16 and she was 14
But is fictional and doesn't age and so that now he's aged to 25
Is it creepy to keep the waifu or is it okay because she's grandfathered in? Okay. So hold on he's 25
Fictional waifu is 14. That's weird. Why don't you just age your fictional waifu up?
Why don't you just get a real waifu
Yeah, that's another question just just get a girlfriend that's yeah man get a get a lady friend
Honestly, that's there are a few of them. They do explore the will you can find them
That's that's wrong. Like seriously though like find somebody that's messed up real
Fuck them. I would I would just you know, it's a strange question in general
Go find one of them real ones. They're cool
You can poke them. I kept a fictional waifu for
How many is for nine years?
There's something there's something wrong with this man
The waifu is implied
Are you guys gonna watch donga get annihilated by andy or sonata?
I don't care. Yeah, I don't even know who tonga is
Well, it said tonga before when I was donga
um
Yeah, I mean it's tonka. So like oh did they have like a debate recently or something?
No, they're gonna fight in real life. They're gonna box somewhere
Really? Okay. Yeah, I think that's the lore
Who's tonka? I don't know this person tonka. So it's internet blood sports
That whole thing
Yeah, I uh, well, yeah, I don't know anything about it. Yeah
Yeah, but if there's a highlights reel of their boxing match, I would probably just throw it on for the for the levels
More i'm trying to get an efap analysis course started in college. Would you be willing to come as a professor or at least a guest speaker?
Sure professor of efapping
I can teach you where your gas
I didn't play morrowin till 2015. I loved it. Yep, that's that'll be another one
I suppose tonald didn't say that that's impossible. It's just
It was implied
For the love of god down the thrust to make an actual point, please
I recently played half life 2 in fear. I was amazed how well thought out and detailed they are made with passion p.s
Killian experience anyone? Yeah, uh, yeah, shout outs
Fear is amazing
Like, um, I played fear 2 then fear 3 and I think I went back to fear 1
Because a friend was like stop playing the shit once and then I was like, holy moly fear 1's awesome
Fear 3 was like the one of the first games I ever just stopped playing because I was like this sucks
Oh
and dragon ball super
Brawly in select theaters this week and that's another recommendation
I don't even feel like I should watch dragon ball before being able to watch whatever dragon ball brawly is
Down with the broccoli down with thrust oofed super mario makers physics for smb1 smb3 and smw is not authentic at all instead using
Nsmw for the so
When you when you said like it's better
You get a better experience a more rewarding experience playing the older games and like the updated engines and stuff
This person's argument is that it's not authentic
Don't know if that means it would be better or worse though
It would be more complicated
But I think that there's going to be precedent for um a game getting updated and they fuck it up
Like you guys think of any times they've done that
They've been in industry like a game gets updated remastered or remade, but it's worse than the original
Like they fuck it up
Let's go. I think the silent hill one. Yeah, I I've heard bad things about some silent hill
remasters that are bad
Um, I heard that the assassin's creed 2 remaster was pretty awful
dragon quest
Oh the darksils one remaster. Yeah, that wasn't like that wasn't terrible, but it was bad
But like what it should have been
Um ratchet and clank ps4. Is that a remake? I guess you could consider it that yeah, it's kind of like a remake of the first one
But yeah, no, that's true too. Like the original was better than that one ocarina of time with 3ds. That might be fair
I haven't played it
Yeah, but the the precedent exists is what I was trying to get at so um, did you ever get around to checking out common writer?
Fours which has the two main actors in a live-action bleach film it's the basis for have we met before lining if so thoughts
No
I think that's oh, yeah. Wait, wait. Oh, that's for you. Sorry
Yeah. Yeah, uh, I haven't watched forza yet like the whole season, but i've seen some clips on youtube
so
Wait, you've seen the three seasons
Yeah, it's like
It's it's um
It's a masked writer show. Uh
It's it's for my review on bleach
Yeah, it's it's a reference to that and one of the the lead characters
uh are
Are in that same show? So
I I I said I would watch it but I haven't gotten around to it and I have looked at some clips so
Um, I have high hopes for the future of bungee and destiny forsaken's really good expansion and they expressed how much they really want destiny to succeed
What do you think of that wolf?
I disagree. I I mean people said the same thing about the taking
The taking king expansion really didn't do as much as people like make it out to be
It's still the same shitty grind still has the same shitty story has the same shitty, uh,
lackluster gameplay, I mean sure the gunplay is like solid but it's really really shallow
There's just nothing to it. I mean I want bungee to get back to being good but
Like I said, I can't trust bungee after
Take our destiny one and then destiny two and honestly, like I said
2007 was like the last time they cared about making a good game
No, that's just take I I have no investment in bungee, so i'm just like apparently samsung's in trouble because um
People can't delete the facebook app on their devices
Good thing. I don't have facebook. I like yeah a lot of people I have it
It's the family discussion stuff. I don't like facebook. I wish I wouldn't have to yeah, I hate facebook
Um, x-men 2 is one of the best gameplay story and graphics
But anyway guys, it was released in 2003 what the truck also happy 2018 too
Yes, this is the sequel to 2018
um
Thank you. Uh, what will this downward dipshit face his critics?
I think I don't know that he like leaves comments in his videos every once in a while. That's just
That's that's the length that he goes to
Uh, check out gary sheep 1717 the latest parody of order 66
He's one of the ones that i've got in the selection for a future meme. So we'll have to try and get around to them
Pacing shouldn't be something that is standardized. It should be relevant to the interest of the game and the scenario
Yeah, I know that's I I don't understand how you standardize pacing. I don't know how that works
Press f for elevator music. Um, also non-scaling areas and enemies isn't a problem of pacing
It's a completely different design issue agreed. Exactly
Uh, it's lucky that downward thrust and those like him don't have to have their essays graded because my high school english teacher would throw
Them back in their faces, let alone my college professor. Well
Apparently that's what we're here for
We're like marking these videos
Uh streamline gameplay is the bane of modern gaming. It's always manifest as cut content and features
This depends on what streamlining means
Specifically, I guess
Four minutes video in two hours. That's one minute for every two seconds. Oh
I think that makes sense
I hate downward thrust so much someone should put pvc piping all the way up his poop chute would put bob wire upset pipe then
Jesus christ
Oh my god, what's wrong with you?
I mean look, okay, we don't like downward thrust either, but that's a little far. I mean, I kind of like him at this point
He's funny
Don't do that. Don't hurt him
Yeah, I mean, yeah
That's a that maybe I totally won't be able to make no more videos if you do it
You can call him an idiot, but don't like oh
What's what's wrong with you?
By the way, that's the same guy who had the waifu I think
Oh my god
This is what having fake waifus fucking does to people Jesus christ. What's there's something wrong with this person get help
Nothing like afab beer and eu4 session
You're
eternal
I
Kept getting an extra uranium
I kept getting an error message not sent edit and try again when trying to ask how to pronounce
plan for
Gilgoggogogogg I think it is in the Welsh name. Well. Just, just. Oh, oh, you mean that,
that town with like the 50 letter name. Yeah. But I mean, it's bad enough that it's 50
letters, but it's also a fucking Welsh word. So there's loads of yi incing ag rhyth. There's
the glutes of shit in Wales that. Yeah, what's wrong with your, like, little, your little
place. That's a question that will never be answered. Because nobody knows the answer.
So Tonald first says that games get sequels because they're irrelevant, but then said
Uncharted 2 was relevant.
That makes sense if you think about it though, because, um...
If you use Tonal would response theory.
Man, how do you think Tonal would react to this stream?
Like, what the fuck is all this?
I don't think he would react at all.
He already tweeted, he said, like, I don't think about it at all, or I have no thoughts
essentially.
What do you mean about us or about someone else?
About us.
Yeah, like, one of the first ones we did, someone tweeted him about, you know, what
do you think about, you know, the stream and everything, he's like, I have no thoughts.
Oh, you mean, like, back in, like, July or something?
Yeah.
I don't think about it at all.
You know what, Tonal, we would love to have you on, and we would totally cover anything
you would want to.
Translate your videos as we watch them.
You know, I don't think he would have much of a reaction.
Like, you know that face, you know, the first sketch, the first drawing that was sent to
us of Tonal.
I think that's just his expression for every single thing he does.
He just stares a little bit at it.
Love the fancy layout.
How is everyone doing today?
How is everybody?
How are you all?
I'm great.
I'm doing really well.
I'm doing good.
Thank you.
I'm psyched.
Excellent.
Full of vigor and pep.
I'm doing well as well.
And funnily enough, the new layout is literally just three purple lines, and I put the efap
thing out the top because I thought it looked better, and people could actually know what
the efap stands for consistently now, so yeah, but thank you.
The same game on console and PC or last gen game on new gen can have different load times
thanks to the system hardware despite the same interfaces.
That's true.
I mean, it's confusing enough that he said interfaces change fucking loading times, like,
as opposed to much more significant differences, but fair enough.
Here's some money for a meal.
Well, I appreciate it, Bobson.
Creativity is-
Smaller's thin?
Yeah.
I need to put on a bit.
It's in fairness.
I'm too thin.
I'm like a twig.
I'm like Jay.
Creativity has allowed the passage of time some considered to be unnatural.
Every time you unlock a sentence, say jackpot.
Oh, do you mean like because of how long it took us to get to new sentences?
Every time we get to a new sentence, take a drink.
Down with Thrust isn't smart enough to talk about Final Fantasy Tactics.
Get this off my screen.
Oh boy, I finally caught a live episode of Rolly's scully yells at a cloud.
Can't wait to see your analysis of their decision to put Star Wars in the MCU and have Rey defeat
Thanos in Avengers Endgame.
At that point, I would just be like Disney is a parody of itself, but thank you.
Down with Thrust, more like gay, got him, third Super Chatter stream, yikes.
Relevancy and enjoyment are two separate things.
Why does Tonal not understand that much?
I don't know.
We never know what he's even saying.
Hashtag ban rags.
I just love the hardest I have in a long time.
Have a tip.
Ah, I just skipped over them.
Ah.
Where did, where did, oh God, yes, a search written by, oh, there we go.
Have a tip for the mom joke.
Bravo, sir.
Wait, what's the mom, what is, what did one of us make of your mom joke?
Oh, that rags.
Yeah, it rags me that your mom's getting hot fire.
I just spent the last few hours finishing a grueling essay and it's thanks to all of
your deep, sexy voices that I could push through.
Thanks.
Nope.
Oh yeah.
Rags, the mother lover, the milf hunter, the 30 and up fucker, the menopausal ravisher.
That's me.
It's like Daenerys' days.
Is downward really correlating pure age of the game with any and all subjectives, even
enjoyment with its gameplay slash story slash tone slash aesthetic, Nani, I mean, yeah.
How do you even quantify what happened in his videos?
I don't think you can.
Wolf cost Jared's list movie written by maula.
What?
Oh, wolf as in Holocaust, but with wolf, wolf cost, oh, wolf cost and then Jared's list
movie written by maula.
Did you miss anything?
Listen, CJ, you missed like five hours of autism.
This is the end of the stream.
Congratulations to cynical reviews for verification and for hitting 100,000 subscribers.
We both know it was because of your appearance on eFap.
Everyone.
That was the entire reason for it.
We did it.
We helped.
Um, but you didn't read it.
Good stuff, Mr. Doggo.
And congratulations on your new podcast.
I believe they're doing an episode again at some point, what's the, um, it's a second
channel.
I'll throw it in.
Fuck.
Uh, what's it called?
The great British podcast, I believe.
How is that name not taken?
By the way, you think somebody would have had that already up.
There we go.
I think cynical streams, there you go.
So cynical reviews, the guy who was on for the episode where we covered, uh, Sam Raimi
Spider-Man films with, I think rags wolf wasn't here for that.
I don't think, um, yeah, we watched him for that.
He's running a stream with cynic snacks.
The pizza who was on the episode, we covered shinobi.
If you guys, the pizza that was on, I just want to say shout outs to cynical.
I really enjoyed his Sarah Burgess review.
That's how I discovered his channel.
So it's really great and his, and his Patrick Willems video is a good time.
So those two pizza, doggo and a box is productions.
The puppet.
Oh yeah.
The puppet.
He's really going to try and get a guest on the fat at some point as well.
The three of them have started a podcast called the great British podcast.
Here is a link to the channel that archives it.
Check it out folks.
Um, yeah, it's, it's, it's pretty neat.
I was on the like weird prototype episodes.
So I think there's only two right now.
So check, check them out.
Uh, anyway, hit or miss, I guess they never miss, huh?
You got a boyfriend.
I bet he doesn't kiss you.
You're going to find another girl and you won't miss you.
He's going to skid and hit the dab like Wiz Khalifa.
That was from precious crystal Fox boy.
I blame Wolf for these things.
Precious crystal Fox boy.
Hey, more.
Can you do a video analysis on MILF's the Caribbean for plunging pirate booty?
Um, if I, he said the B word, I don't know if there might be a good idea.
If tonal degrees to do it with me, I will do it.
I will do it with you.
Um, I'm a little unbridled rage on crystal skull or Genesis.
I'll do Genesis.
The problem with me and crystal skull is that, um, I was never like, I loved the older Indiana
Jones and like, I sort of, I don't know how I felt about crystal skull.
It's sort of just dumb.
And I kind of like forgot about it while Genesis like seriously pissed me off.
So I think.
I watched all the terminator films back to back to back and then Mahler was like, let's
Genesis together.
And it's like, Oh, Hey, it's the worst thing I've ever seen aside from Teo.
It's like literally the TLJ of terminator.
It is so awful.
And like crystal skulls bad.
There's no, there's no doubt, but I don't know.
Crystal skulls, not quite series ruining.
Yeah.
Like TLJ and Genesis are on the same like Tia while, um, I don't know, I don't know
where I'd put crystal skull, but yeah, there's probably someone out there who is super like
a super pan pan, super fan of Indiana Jones who could probably do a better job than I
would as the passionate investment.
Get PSA sit on most of the crystal skull.
I remember Shia LaBeouf was in it and that's, that's, that's it pretty much.
Um, we will be, we will get PSA sit on at some point, as you can see, there's a couple
of people who already been suggested and several people I have told will be coming on and we've
got the podcast with colonial Marines, which will just be us three.
And we got the one where we're going to be covering Eric taxons, new videos.
So it's like, it's just got to get all things in order, I guess, um, Adeptus a status is
miss.
Oh wait, I read that one already.
A crystal skull or Genesis, crystal skull, or Genesis, or which one is better or it just
says that, um, uh, well, crystal skull is better than Genesis.
There's nothing.
No.
The last guy is worse than Genesis.
Well, is it worse than the Genesis?
I don't know.
It is so hard to decide because they will watch them back to back.
Well, rags, Genesis literally erases terminator two from the timeline.
Yeah, but the last Jedi is really bad.
But at least at least Luke wasn't erased from the OT.
Like he wasn't, I wish he was just erased at this point.
I mean, Genesis is, I mean, I would say they're on par.
They are so awful and they both disrespect the previous films pretty equally.
It's a, it's a, it's a complicated like Genesis was making me furious.
It's like the whole way through.
Hey guys, thoughts on the Dark Siders franchise.
Also, would you play it for the evil Navi voiced by Mark Hamill that you get in the
first one? He's awesome.
And I do like Dark Siders.
I never finished the first one and I've heard the third one is actually pretty good.
That's that's my take on it.
Anyone else?
I haven't played those.
I've never played them.
Oh, well, they're cool.
I like the information necessary.
The original Assassin's Creed in 2007 could have the entire.
Oh, wait, we read that.
Yeah. Bully arguably making toast.
Hey, guys, I have a recommendation for Wolf as a lover of Lord of the Rings.
You've got to see the meme page of Lord of the Rings Shire posting.
It will uplift your soul with many laughs, Bilbo memes, et cetera.
Where is that?
I don't know. Googly, I guess the the meme page.
Lord of the Rings Shire posting, Shire posting.
Kind of reminds me of Bionicle Mask posting.
That's a funny dark Facebook page.
There was pretty much the only reason that I stayed on Facebook.
And I was finally fed up with seeing my friends
say stupid things all the time and making me hate them.
Let's see. Lord of the Rings Dyer posting.
Oh, it's unfair.
No, I'm not. I'm not signing back up for Facebook for that.
Even Bionicle Mask posting wasn't enough to.
And that page is hilarious.
There's a there's like a I remember someone mentioning someone sent it to me,
but I don't know how to get back to it.
There was like a a wiki page for me on like
gaming battle dot net or some shit.
I sent it to you, Wolf, at one point.
It was funny.
Like mentioned, it's like, oh, he found memes in it,
but I haven't got the link to it and I don't know how to get to it.
If someone in chat knows how we can probably.
Check it out live or whatever.
You guys are still streaming his five dollars.
Keep it up, you mad man.
I mean, yeah, we're nearing six hours now.
You guys are always hating on someone.
I approve. Have some haterate.
Also, ask Rags if he wants to bring his buddy J Tech TV on eFap at some point.
He would be no fun at all.
He would be too stupid to conceive.
Wouldn't it be funny from virtue of him not being funny around us?
Who's J Tech TV?
Some loser, some PlayStation fan boy.
I used to make a few videos on.
Oh, you mean like around.
I guess he's still around.
I don't know. I haven't I as this kind of surprised me
when I heard that name come up, I'm like, oh, now.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
That person is a thing that exists.
I'm pretty sure even people who live under rocks have seen those.
So that's the list of films that all side of Cyrus said.
I've only seen two of those.
So sorry. I really appreciate your work.
Would you consider doing a stream such video in which you talk about
what you hope to see an end game and episode nine?
Probably not.
I mean, we'll talk about it on the stream as well, probably.
We'll probably even talk about end game as it comes out.
But I'm apprehensive about both of.
Well, apprehensive about end game because I don't want it to be bad.
I'm excited about episode nine because I know it'll be bad.
Going to be funny.
Because even a good film to be good as episode nine,
you'd have to contradict what came before in episode seven and eight,
which would by virtue make you a pretty disrespectful sequel.
So it's just a mess.
I got a laugh at work the other day when someone told me
to grab the pile of oily rags.
I can only imagine rags oiled up.
Oh, well,
best three days grace album.
Also, love your book.
Oh, glad you like the book.
Best is one X.
Life starts now as a pretty close one.
There you go.
I thought everyone hated Treasure Planet.
That's from a super chat.
I mean, it was a financial failure,
but I've seen very few people that didn't like Treasure Planet.
I once knew a kid from middle school who said he never watched Samurai Jack.
I haven't watched Samurai Jack.
Rags, serious question.
What are you hiding behind those glasses?
Is it your shame?
Is it your in a tard?
Is it your urge to milk?
So here's the here's the deal.
So what I'm doing is I'm actually I'm not hiding my eyes.
You see, I'm hiding the light from my eyes.
You see, I don't I'm trying.
I'm preventing the light from getting into my eye.
I'm making a statement.
You just saying that to cover it up.
Whatever I fuck with my glasses on.
I see.
Opinions on Crystal Skull.
I guess we kind of went over that.
I just all I remember is I was just like, what the fuck is happening in this film?
And then I stopped watching it.
Then I watched Plinkett's review and I was like, yep, this film is really bad.
Yep, that's that's my take.
Anyone else got anything that is like a bit more in depth with that?
That sounds like a no.
How many of you played Battle Brothers?
I have a little bit.
I didn't finish it.
I have no idea what it is.
It's a strategy game, a tactical top down.
You recruit mercenaries into your brotherhood, as it were,
and you and you do random quests and you level them up
and you make your way into the world.
That's basically it.
Um, well, yeah, fair enough.
It sounds kind of it's a strange name.
Battle Brothers seems really generic.
And I think, you know, I kind of like interstellar soldiers
or something like that.
Yeah, that's a random example, by the way.
I'm not referencing anything.
I just took two random words and threw them together.
I don't know what you guys are talking about.
TLJ versus Black Panther versus Arrival Go.
Versus what? What's the last one?
Arrival.
Rank them, Wolf. Do it.
Is this from Jay? Yes.
Jay, now my response
does not mean that Arrival is a good movie.
It's only the least shit.
TLJ is the worst.
Black Panther is the second, Arrival is the third, but they're all bad.
There you go.
The creator of Dead Space had a 30 minute interview
that was released on YouTube.
You should watch it and play.
You should play action.
Yeah, I actually did watch that that interview.
Did you, Mauler?
I have not seen that. Is it good?
Yeah, I'll have to link it to you.
It's the original creator, Dead Space,
and he's just like talking about how like all the creative decisions
he made going into it.
And the top comment is like this.
I feel sorry for this guy.
EA killed his baby and it's like, yeah.
Poor guy.
I always look forward to your streams.
More power to you guys.
I'm also glad to see WOW back.
Wow. Weekend warrior rather than.
Weekend warrior. Yeah.
OK, well, yeah, no, cool.
Thank you. And of course, it is nice to have him here.
Are you here? You just left Pemperly.
Hello. Hello.
Yeah, I'm here. Good. That was weird.
Well, we are at the point where we're pretty much the end of the stream
with our guests this week was actually weekend warrior.
It wasn't Rags. That was a ruse.
How dare you?
How dare you take away Rags as guest spot this whole time?
I've been making a voice.
Oh, sorry. One more thoughts on the Iron Giant.
I haven't watched it.
I haven't watched it since I was a kid, but I remember liking it.
Well, that was that was actually my stripper name back in the day.
Hmm. I remember it kind of weird being kind of weird
that they decided to bring a nuke to this random town in the middle of nowhere.
Misremembering it since I haven't seen it since I was seven. So.
But I remember liking it otherwise.
Oh, I was going to say, weekend warrior,
would you like to give a little bit of a talk about your channel?
I'm going to post it now in the chat
so you guys can find the link directly to him.
But what do you do when I talk about games and movies?
I got I got a series going on about Mass Effect Andromeda
and people don't realize how bad it is.
So I'm just annihilating it.
I also did doing the service.
Thank you. I am also.
I also did a review on Suicide Squad and Batman versus Superman.
So check it out.
Those are two real bad ones.
Did you thought the review is just the movies?
Did you do you like those movies? We can worry with a good.
Less. Yes. Very good.
Find out in the review.
It's going to be very, very, very, very, very good.
Wonderful.
Yeah. Thank you for coming on.
It was wonderful. Thank you for having me.
Did you enjoy understanding the majesty of downward thrust?
Of course, I enjoyed this video before, by the way.
I just know their meme status, but I didn't really like sit down.
Yeah, because I was going to say you probably know the thumbnails, right?
Like, yeah, yeah, the meme thumbnails.
Yeah, so now you know what it's like to watch one of his videos.
So when you find out that they like get trending and stuff, you might be like,
seems strange. Yeah, it's very odd.
But yeah, I think that's around about it.
So thank you all for the very generous donations.
Very much appreciated.
Thank you guys for coming on, all three of you
and the the chat for keeping us company.
And of course, the fucking crazy amounts of art and the meme.
The memes are amazing.
I'm genuinely considering never changing my profile picture from this.
This is too perfect.
I love it. Do you prefer that to the pirate one?
Yeah, because this one's like he just he just looks
he looks happy and sad at the same time.
And I really like that element to it.
And it's just so it's so perfect.
It looks exactly like him.
Even gets his girly eyes there. It's it's wonderful.
I love it.
Beowyn, you're you're majestic.
Yeah, I think we should say a big thanks to the the crazy good artists
who are creating all of this just like infinitely meme-able stuff.
And a a bigger thanks to Tonal Gloke himself.
Thank you for providing us with so much entertainment.
I'm assuming that's what these videos were meant for, by the way.
He wrote them as a parody and then people start picking them up legitimately.
And he was like, oh, no, they don't get the joke.
But we did, man. We did.
We understood.
But an even bigger thanks to our lord and savior, Mr. Jared Genesis.
Of course. Oh, we're currently not in his favor.
Yeah, we're currently not in his favor.
Hopefully we can be redeemed.
We can have our little Jesus moment with Jared and Jared will be like,
I forgive you, my sons.
Yes. But that's it.
So thankful for for everything and goodbye, everyone.
Goodbye. Good night.
Good night and good luck.
Wow, Rach didn't say anything.
I don't want to say anything.
I don't think that they deserve, quite frankly, final parting words from me.
I I think. That.
I you know, I don't even know.
It's been so long.
It has been five, almost six hours.
