With number 45, can you believe it?
Yes, we're back hopefully it separates out I swear to God if it doesn't all be upset I gotta add Wolf's channel into the description
But yeah once I'm doing all those boring things
That's literally by law have to do that
It looks like
The word of one
So it looks it looks different
It would be about the chat was the same as it was before I think it might not change
I don't think chat does change
Like it doesn't refresh
If not, it'll be a really long stream
Dream health is looking. Okay. Is everything working? Let me look at my
We've returned and we've gained a piss on say hello wolf you massive. Hi
You guys went for so long that I was actually able to make it after work
One of the first thing he says when he comes and joins this is he lays down one of the most atrocious statements
I've heard in a while repeat it wolf do it repeat it
Alita battle angel is kind of terrible
Okay, so rain so shad
I want to give you the rundown of my of my opinion of Alita or my history with my opinion of Alita
Cuz it's changed multiple times
So I watched Alita battle angel shortly after making my Aquaman video. I hate Aquaman
That's a terrible movie and I was kind of on a hate high when I made that heat. So I
Yeah, we'll call it a hate high
So after that I went to see Alita and I was like man
I could totally rip this movie apart and I started thinking about it and I was like, it's not really rip apartable
It's more just like bland and doesn't do anything even remotely interesting
And then I read the manga and now I hate it more than anything. It's
Like like literally anyone that has told you that it is a good adaptation is lying to you. It's a horrible adaptation
This is this is hilarious because I feel like you're basically in the exact position
Flip the efap around
But I like I'm actually more than open to acknowledging that if the comic like the manga is so much better than the movie
that by nature
readjusts the
Point of comparison what I mean, I like I can't because I haven't read the manga and so it's harder for me
I should get something greater
But there is a version that's so much better and this doesn't match up
That honestly means that it is a less or it is of less quality than what you know
It could have been because there's a higher point of comparison kind of what we were talking about last stream
my the my analogy that I gave is that is with
Records world records in like sport and stuff and something is only the best until someone else beats it and when it's
When it's beaten the thing that used to be the best is by nature
redefined as not the best anymore and in actual fact if that if that
world record gets surpassed to the point where it's more than twice as fast as the original record that record that was once great can be
Objectively bad, even though it's time did not change because we're now looking at it from a new point of comparison
so
Interesting. I would highly suggest the Alita manga
Because I've watched the anime and the anime I thought
Yeah, yeah, well, yeah, I mean it's it's kind of dated but it's also nothing like the manga I don't like that one either
But that I dislike it also because the animations just kind of it hasn't aged very well as compared to other animes
But you know, that's that's a different subject all together. It's not I kind of forgot most of the OVA at this point
But yeah, I mean if I look at Alita battle angel the movie objectively, it's like
really dull for the most part and it's world building is the biggest issue I have and
the
I loved her
Yeah, I love to have vulnerability. She's a very see you though
See it no, I cuz she fails and she needs help and everything and the only time she failed she got
The only time she failed she beat the shit out of a dude 20 times her size and got a body that was way better
Than before I think that's simplifying it a bit
She gets trash like in the in the one-on-one when it was just her and him
She gets ripped apart into pieces and then she's crawling away and she's about to get stomped on and crushed and then she's literally
Killed him without any limbs aside from no, no
No, she wouldn't have been able to do that if either hadn't came in come in and stopped him from crushing her
So only after that because that was gonna be game over so her life was legitimately saved and she legitimately lost at that point
And I was only after that that she then and this is interesting. This is kind of like the whole
Spider-man homecoming thing when his crush on the thing where she fails and then she
Regains her strength again and even only having one limb
She pulls out that huge move and just right through the eye. I loved that part
All right. Yeah, it was visually cool, but character wise
Emotionally that that but that was brilliant
I feel the only emotion I felt was laughter when the stupid little dog died and she took it so seriously
You
Know what's really actually sad is a grew ish guy actually has a character in the manga
Ways to improve him like he serviced that the purpose that he was filling in there in the movie from my understanding and stuff
They ruined his character it's like the biggest character assassination I've seen a sight from Luke probably
Ouch, it's kind of terrible because he's actually got a lot of depth in the manga
Whereas he's just he's evil because he's evil in the movie
You did it you did it on cosmoronics you haven't done it here so you can actually like talk about it
But someone's just said but in the manga so it's like oh, do you want to clarify your position on adaptations for the for the audience?
I
Didn't I already said that objectively it's like dull, but I'm talking about my
Position on the manga as opposed on the adaptation rather
Do you want to be clear about how how you separate them or just want to leave it there?
You know
Let me think oh, right. We'll just use the shining because that's always when I go to example the shining is a horrible insulting
Adaptation of a far better book, but it's still a really great movie
Subjectively, I probably wouldn't go out of my way to watch the shining movie because I'm too attached to the book
But I will still admit that it is an objectively good movie. It just kind of depends. It's
We got to go movie by or adaptation by adaptation
It's kind of subjective depending on what I'll actually
Like like the it movie from 2017. I really liked it, but it also changed a lot from the book
Could you say like is there one that you could say is better than the other when it comes to the shining I
Personally feel you even though like
The book is way better
infinitely better, so we'll see that that's interesting because then I like
Well, I don't have a point in comparison so because I've heard people love the movie better than the book
So I can't really comment on it in
It's hard to say
You should read the book it's really good like like does it change the source material so much that
It's it also does a huge character assassination assassination
Sorry, Dick's character is nothing in the movie. Where is it the book? There's an actual reason for him being there
Well that stuff really ticks me off when like a good character is just butchered in an adaptation and
My my opinion is that you can legitimately have that reflect on the overall quality of the film not just as a separate adaptation
I feel the adaptive quality is an essential part of the overall quality as well, and you can critique
Subsets, but if you're trying to say is the whole thing good
I feel it's effectiveness as the adaptation informs that judgment and so yeah
I mean look like I said, you're not gonna hear me calling The Shining a bad movie
It's a really good movie, but I don't like it because it insults a book. I really love
See
Cuz if the movie was done on something that I loved and it and like betrayed certain carries and everything like that
I would be more inclined to say it was bad even if other elements were good. I feel if it really but like
Underperformed to what it was supposed to be which is essentially in a good adaptation
That's a part of what it's supposed to be that is a big, you know
Influence on the quality that I would give it so I disagree with that. I think it can still be objectively good while
Disrespecting the material which is like I said, it's what the shining
I'm saying the
Effectiveness of its adaptation influences. It's a it's a part of your judgment of it
And like if everything else is brilliant and like really really good
Well that can overcome its flaws in its adaptiveness today. It's always a balance
I try and try and figure it out as a whole. Yeah, I mean it like I said my uh, I
Can't really make a scale for how I'm going to like a movie. That's that differs from its source material
It's really subjective
it depends on a lot of different factors as long as it stays true to the characters of the world and the
Story and thematic elements then I'll be fine with it, which is what it did
It's a very true to the spirit of the book
See this is that I'm like that's kind of my issue with the spider-man stuff as well being true to the character
Even the spirit and everything like that. Those are the important elements that I want to see
Translated accurately in a spider-man adaptation and I'm open to certain experimentation and variance
Like you know, but if it changes too much and betrays certain things about the character
That's when I have an issue with it, which is why I had an issue with far from home
Well, I didn't get to say it because I wasn't part of the the homecoming debate
But I don't mind if someone makes that argument of
Adaptation, you know if they don't like it if they don't like spider-man homecoming
Because they think it's insulting to the spider-man comics. Then. Yeah, I totally I'm totally okay with that. That's fine by me
Oh, I also feel that there are other element issues in characterization and plot that make it a worse movie as well
Which means it's a poor adaptation and a poor standalone movie just considered independently
Yeah
well, I'm sure people don't want us to get into
Too much of that since he already did a five-hour stream
You you made a point to separate those two things I thought you said they were intrinsically tied together
They are intrinsically tied but you can judge things or like you can judge subsets of it separately, right?
But just to say something is good because it is consistent
Doesn't discount the other elements that can if that can be used to judge its overall quality
characterization, I feel is a very important one and
It's adaptive quality as well
and so even if you say something is brilliant in its consistency and its plot and things if
If also graphics if the special effects or just filming, you know quality is junk making it unwatchable
Doesn't matter how good the plot is
It's a terrible film still. I
I think that uh, the plot and stuff is more of a significant factor than um, like ie
This film was shot like garbage. The sound design is crap, but the writing is awesome
It's like well the film can be good even if I see no if it's if the filming and sound
Unwatchable
Yeah, right. But what I mean is it's bad, but not unwatchable
Then it's still a good but there's a level where it becomes unwatchable. That's my point. And so, uh, yeah
Yeah, there are there are external
Elements that you can look at a film in judging quality separates to you know story plot a thing that absolutely inform your overall
Assessment of the quality of the movie as a whole, right?
but uh, I guess it's whether or not we're pulling from other sources or
You could use other sources as a standard like a great example is you use a film that has
Excellent graphics as the standard to compare the filming quality of another film and in this instance you could even use
Um films age so does it get worse because of that
You know, yes, I got
Yes, so we look at uh, we look at like turn well that's a
Sorry, we're about citizen Kane I haven't seen it
But there are some films that use what they had available
So well that even in in the modern day where we have CGI gosh and everything. They still hold
Like okay, let's take a video game like Crash Bandicoot
It's like the game looks pretty shit now, but um
It's not like the game got worse. The game is as good as it was when it came out
It just looks worse
Relatively see I don't know like the same a good example
Baldur's Gate series loved to death one of my all-time favorite games now
All was right when I like I just that was drugs for me loved it. I can't play it anymore
The guy like the graphics are too jarring for me
either fact that I have to read everything and there's no voiceover takes too much effort because I've experienced something that's so much better so
Much more immersive takes less efforts to enjoy. It's now restructured my
Opinion of the original Baldur's Gate games still love them
I can and I can still say that they were so great for the time and when I experienced them
But compared to what's available now
There are better games much more
Yeah, but what I mean is like the game itself hasn't gotten worse it is
My point of reference the thing I'm comparing it against has changed and there and because there's so much better I can't
Think I can't actually say this is one of the greatest games
period ever ever made because
Graphic quality and and immersion all these other things need to be considered that are done better because technology has improved
Yeah, but I guess the difference would be the technology is different to plots and story like
Odysseus doesn't age in a sense
Because it's it's just a story
Well, no it does it does like the structure of pros and everything like that and what people are familiar with and how easy it is
To absorb and that story of Odysseus
Like the story can't age
What do you mean when you say age it can't get worse well
Well, the thing is is um, because when we say age we mean it appears worse relative to other things as time progresses
But the plot itself is not susceptible to wear and tear or looking worse
Graphically or visually or in sound design like if semantics or words had to be updated to understand them
Like just just a word that's not used anymore versus one that's now so someone could translate it for you
Technically speaking the story never changed. I
Agree with you there, but I mean, that's why Shakespeare still holds up today. You're able to change the language and still make good
adaptations of the work
Good adaptations. Yes
But my point is yeah my going back to the original thing is that when a higher standard is created that you have a
Can judge it against it ultimately does affect where that sits in comparison to what you're comparing against
It hasn't changed
but if if you're trying to say what if a good movie is a movie that is in the top 50% of movies made
Okay, and a movie was made that reached a 10 out of 10
So it's in the top 50% but suddenly if that rating now jumps to 100
It's only a 10 out of 100 is now on the bottom 50% because there's such a larger pool to compare it against
It now becomes one of the worst movies ever made didn't change right?
But the film itself isn't worse like it's it's the same because you you can only judge
What is good and bad based on a point of comparison and if you can point a point of comparison is better and greater?
Than it was before it can become worse
So changing just an example just to see if I can maybe poke a small hole
So like game mechanics is of being hitboxes. How well can I judge a hitbox?
So I can ds2 I rip into them for a good like 20 minutes for how awful they are
And my standard would be how close is the hitbox to the model?
And so if someone was to create a game in 1995 with the hitboxes are tied directly to the model to a tee
Like there's no mistakes whatsoever
There is no time where those hitboxes can age to be worse
They will be that good forever because there's no standard that can get higher than that in terms of
the standard of hitbox matching
a model
Do you sort of mean in that case?
Yeah, I agree in that instance. Absolutely. Okay
But see where in the story have we been able to find perfection definitively?
I don't know if I would say it's uh, so like a story
That was written in like the 1900s could feasibly have been written tomorrow
Uh
There's not necessarily you haven't lost the ability to write obviously i'm not including stuff like say I wanted to write a medieval story
Um, I feasibly could theoretically I should be saying come up with the same story as a guy living in the medieval times
because if i'm only drawing from
uh
The limits of pen and paper if you if you understand what I mean like like making my mark
it would be the languages would be a difference as we've already highlighted but um
the storytelling itself
There's uh, I don't know that we as a society age to the point where a story um
You're right like I I do believe objective standards exist when it comes to
Storytelling but I will absolutely agree that those objective standards can change based on culture and many many parameters
And so ultimately it's impossible to have a perfect full story if the standard you're trying to determine
By which it is perfect is changing. So obviously that's impossible
Um, sorry, I just uh, try to drink something either way would everyone like to discuss far from home
It's been so long and we finally be able to do it before we do it
Before we do it have two things to say. Oh no first first thing
Shad i'm like halfway through a little over halfway through your book
I'm at like page. I think i'm at like 290 something or other. I don't think i'm quite at 300 yet
But i'm close and then
That's awesome, it's like the
Is it anything else or it's just
Well, I I feel like I kind of want to read the book to completion before I make any definitive statements on it
Yeah, because I mean some of my criticisms right now might be remedied by the end and I don't want to say something
That will be like completely false. Oh, well, yes
Let's hold off on that. I don't feel like having a knife stab through my heart, right?
But I will say be gentle sir, okay, this is
Trading on some very vulnerable ground. This isn't some video essay talking about spooderman. We got to be careful. Okay
Well, I I want to say that of the objective statements I can make thus far
Is your world building is immaculate?
Oh
Thank you. That means a lot
I I would say
Well of all the self-published books i've read yours is definitely the best i've read so far granted. That's only like
Nine or ten, but you know of the nine or ten
It's the best
And your world building is really good have some criticisms of how it's conveyed, but it's still yes
Yes, I can I can be a bit expository and I did actually
struggle over deciding to be
briefer in certain instances and stuff like that and I had to make a call and ultimately it was
If I enjoyed what was there
And so that does kind of come to a subjective again thing like, you know
And and so yeah, I did struggle over those elements. I fully admit but uh,
Hopefully it doesn't distract people from the enjoying the story
yeah, uh
Yeah, I i'll i'll probably give you like a rundown of all the things when i'm
When i'm finished with it, but that's the that's the thing that I can say is like objectively really pretty fucking good about it
Awesome. Thanks, man. Oh, I can't wait for you to finish it. You got some very exciting things to come
Yes, I I am
I will try to finish it as soon as I can
Unfortunately got a heavy work week ahead. So I probably won't be available for the next default
But you know and the second thing is for anyone in the chat. That's a corn fan
You'll never find me. It's such a good fucking song. I've been listening to it on repeat like literally all day
Like I fucking love this song. It's awesome
All right. I think thanks for reading the book man. That means heaps. I really appreciate it
Well, yeah, I mean, I think i've bought like every book written by a youtuber. I like you're just gonna stop and book
Pull every book. Okay. Well, I should be jesus christ. If you saw the bookshelves behind me then you might actually think that
um
but yeah, I
Uh bought recently. Well before you uh, do you know who the youtuber? Hello future me is?
Oh, yeah, and I know like i'm good mates with him. Actually, we chat on discord on the occasion and yeah
Yeah, his book. Um, how to write fantasy?
I think uh, no, I think it's just on writing and it's about portal building specifically
I haven't read it yet, but I mean as soon as he
Posted that he wrote a thing. I was like, well, gotta gotta get it
And then I saw that you wrote a thing and you said you're brandon sanderson and robert jordan fan
And I was like, well, I definitely and probably had to get it now
So and I definitely see the inspiration
You light-blinded fiend
Oh, that's a naughty word you can't say that on the stream. It's naughty. Thank you for giving it a good justification
using light
Because at first I was like, oh god, I hope this doesn't come across the wrong way
Because when it first when I first started, uh reading it and I noticed characters using light I was like
Oh shit, people are gonna think he's just plagiarizing. I know I know and this is kind of my issue when it comes
I know sorry if we get a bit off topic chat
We'll be brief here
is um
If I come to a decision regarding the world or plot or anything like that naturally on my own
That this is the most natural result of the world or what would happen
Even if it was done in another story, I don't like letting that detract me from
What you know should I should have the freedom to?
implement
Just because that's makes the most logical sense and stuff
And so there's actually a couple of word choices that are the same in certain other books and it's not because i'm copying
It's just that was the best word for the situation and stuff. Yeah
Yeah, I i've come to like it because um, I don't remember exactly what page it was actually justified on but you you make the distinction of
What light and dark means in this specific world with like the difference between a normal night
And the night or the the four nights that have happened
um exactly and I don't remember exactly what the insult was but you said shade something or other for another insult and I was like
Oh, that's the distinction. That's kind of neat. Now. I don't have any problem with it at all
Uh, yeah, so i'm actually i'm impressed that you were able to take
Oh an insult from something you were inspired by give it a different justification and context and still make it work
See this is how you appropriate other
You're appropriating short, what would you call it Jordanian culture we'll call it that
And we had him on this podcast we didn't even yeah
Yeah, I I will try to get through the book as fast as I can and I will
Have a conversation with the about it. Oh mate. Let's do it on efap. I can't wait
I'll just sit back and listen like
Well, you know maula the the book is available
I really if only you'd made a movie or tv show or video game because I I have made an audiobook
Just just putting that out there. Hmm. Oh
Trust me. I've been trying to get him to get into things for a while
I try to get him to read or to listen to the expanse audiobooks and he won't do it
I tried to get him to read watchman and he won't do it
He doesn't he doesn't I don't do much reading. I just watch the fuck out of movies
I've still got a shit ton of movies to watch. I got like a lot of recommendations. It's okay. You got a friend
I all righty. Well, that's exposed me. I can't read you happy now
Yes, I will honestly though it's it's more there's no book i'd be more considering of stuff like hmm, I do like shad
Good enough for a reason to read. Oh god, even jay said even i've read watchman, but he
Does that count for anything really?
Well mauler now that jay he he's read a thing that you haven't he hasn't watched something
He probably hasn't he's watched like but here's the thing
You can't allow him to experience something that you haven't because then we can't keep the meme going. Oh, you can
He's he's he's watched things that we haven't for sure. He's probably seen movies that we haven't book is a bad rip off of fern gully
How did they know holy crap that's a deep meme from one of my streams
How about mauler read us the book? I sped it efap just reading his book
Get up a little fire on the screen and don't leave little trouble. Yeah, I probably would actually um
So yeah, does everyone want to talk about far from home remember that movie came out? Yeah, yeah, I remember that movie
So that movie why don't we we take the most polarized opinions on it first and I reckon that'll be fringy and shad
Oh, uh
What do you want me to say when I think of it?
Sure, you can go first then then shad I guess
Hold on i'm trying to mauler over
um
Far from home is good. Uh, I think it's very good
It's not it. I don't know if i'd say it's as good as homecoming because homecoming is really solid
But I think far from home is good albeit. There are some contrivances and some
Iffy things some questionable things like questionable decisions and stuff like that
um
My view on it is that it's it seems like a logical next step to to see where spider-man is going
like it
I'm, just trying to think of a way to explain it. Um
Oh, uh
Yeah, I I think it's a natural escalate a natural progression from where he left off after homecoming and end game. National geographic
What what national geographic
Is that is that what I said?
Yeah, wolf was trying to make a joke and it's now it's now just confused you well on wolf. Yeah job. Um
The the reason why i'm trying to mull it over is because I don't want to say something that i'm like, oh, whoops that was wrong
That was stupid
Um, it's all right to be wrong. You're right
Which is going to be scrutinizing you mercilessly though. I
I think I take issue on your side. I take issue with the sentence that you just said
Uh shadow I want to scrutinize it
If you're wrong that you're a bad person by default. Yeah
Far from home like homecoming is kind of a great example of cause and effect in action because things always keep
You know
There's a consequence of things that happen and then there's a progression of things that happen
And there are enough subtle hints and build up
To certain decisions that are made in certain important character moments that it never strikes me as odd or out of left field
like, um
sort of the the reason why
You know, he's uh, why peter is likely to befriend mysterious and then obviously
Kind of get fooled by him as well as his progression towards figuring out how he needs to be a hero
like if more said that the um
The homecoming is the why
Then uh far from home is the how you know, like because he obviously he feels inadequate
He doesn't feel like he's good enough. And these are things that would have been reinforced by past events
And there's just a vacuum there not only in his life with the loss of a mentor figure
But also in the world with the loss of iron man
And so it's very much about him coming to realize what his role will be in the world
Um, i'm sure more things that I like will become apparent as we talk about it
But yes, so are you criticizing it or saying why it's good?
How did you he only said nice things about it
I know
All right
I thought I thought you introduced mauler as the one mauler and me were gonna say things we disliked about it
No, I said fringy and you were probably gonna have fringing the polar opposite take so
Sorry, I meant fringy when I said mauler before. Okay. Yes
but uh, yeah, I mean if you want to explain what you think then uh
Because I probably yeah, that's probably enough for now i'll figure out more when we talk about it
Okay. So
biggest thing I disliked about it was
Peter parker's, uh, I guess whole character. Um, so I just mean I got my
Sorry, my daughter's here. So there might be some background noise. I apologize. Um, yeah
Yes
There are many of them. Um
I I really felt the portrayal of his character was a contradiction on the established peter parker
You know character that exists in all the works and so not all but most of the works and stuff
And not only was that a failure in its adaptive quality, but also it was a more unlikable
character just
Comparatively, uh, I feel he made some pretty damn dumb choices
A lot of the plot is based upon just trying to fix a mistake. He made he is actively trying to avoid
helping people and saving lives, which I found selfish and
um
unlikable and uh
And so yeah, there was a lot of elements about his character that I really didn't like I felt there was a lot of
Plot hole well enough plot holes to be annoyed at in regards to
Um elements in the plot. I really didn't like the glasses
I thought it was dumb that peter had them in the first place
for many reasons and
And then his use of them and I didn't like mysterious
he rung very true on a couple of levels like he seemed like a villain that was uh
Up like I know i'm characterizing him and you can try and go into a bit more depth
But it came across like he was a villain because tony stark called his project bath
and and that
Sent him down the track. We're willing to take lives and everything
and
yeah, so I in terms of
feeling for his uh justified motivations that felt very flat for me as well and
And I might be coming across that I hate the film. I feel the film was average
I give it a five out of ten
So when I say I dislike it, that's not me saying I hate it
But I do kind of fall into the dislike even though I still my rating is still five out of ten
I kind of fall into the dislike camp with the additional
souring in my mouth of the
the
failure as the as an
Adaptation of spider-man as well on top of that. So that kind of makes me dislike it a bit more
Can I come back on the mysterious thing because now i'm thinking about that again?
I think mysterious is a good villain. Uh, i'd say he's a pretty great villain
He's not as good as vulture, but I think he works really well
Um, he's it's another sort of
Example of a well integrated villain into the mcu
He's a little bit more closely tied to tony stark more so than um than vulture was but he's still very much opposed to like
Peter parker in the story. Um
I think I think the uh, I mean mysterious is a cool villain in general the idea of using illusions
To trick people and convince people and that's part of the reason why it works
Well that he was able to trick peter, you know
Not like in terms of manipulating him
He knew exactly what things to say and there are a lot of hints that he's paying close attention to what's happening
So that he knows what to say don't apologize for being the smartest person in the room
Oh, you hijacked his holiday
You just want to have a time with his friends of it, you know
You just want to be with your friends and stuff like that
And it's just paying really close attention and saying the right things to coax peter
towards doing what he wants
And then it also demonstrates how well thought out he is in terms of the way that he uses this technology as well like we see him
Planning out his attack like all right double the damage do the projection like this and this is something we noticed as well. Um,
like
You know how?
MJ picks up the hologram and then it starts playing
The uh the projection and of course the immediate thought is like well, that's convenient. But what?
I realized was um
They were testing their technology at the same time
And the the uh, the hologram that was missing was part of the relay
The only thing that would be convenient about it was how much information it showed when it only should have shown fragments
But it's just that kind of well thought out some details
It's like, you know when a film gets that precise and is really thinking out these details. Well
It's generally going to be leaning towards a good film
So hang on what details specifically impressed you you like so, you know how um, how when um,
Peter is fighting, you know, uh in Prague against the lava one
Um, and then the projector goes missing and mj picks it up like when she is talking to peter
It starts projecting the information that they need to figure out mysterious a villain to which you would go that's convenient
But it's projecting the footage of the london monster because at the same time
um
Mysterio was testing out he's preparing he's doing his um rehearsals for the london one
So what comes across as convenient actually makes a lot of sense in context
Because he's testing it and it's still part of the relay which is how he figures out that it's gone missing
That's like you didn't have to do that. I don't know that doesn't that doesn't really impress me that just kind of strikes me as
well, of course, they would want to at least do that because that's what you would it would exist consistently just
Yeah, but it's just a lot of movies don't do that a lot of movies will just
Isn't that a more negative indictment on the state of film rather than a positive thing this movie
Perhaps but it's something that it did well anyway because they
There was an explanation for it, which is a positive even even if it is convenient the information that it really
I
Don't know see explaining conveniences logically should be a standard
We would hope to accept then yeah and actually give credit to it for doing it
So I guess what that didn't impress me because that was kind of my reaction to the whole like yeah, okay
Oh, okay. Well, that's fine. Then it's still a thing though. That was good and not bad
The chance that spooterman is hell gay. Wait wolf is is gay good and straight bad or vice versa?
I don't know. This is a good
Listen, this is a good christian podcast. Oh, I see
Well, I mean we don't accept the gay here
What about the hella gay?
Not that either i'm not hearing no's oh damn he said no well
uh
I don't know if we just I didn't mean to interrupt there if anyone if battle frame was saying
I guess the topic is my stereo because mysterious seems to be a topic now
So maybe we want to break break him down a bit and see so
do you feel
His actions were justified based on what we know from his passing character
Like it would that logically tip someone over to the point where there was a murder to get what they want
like a good comparison is vulture like because vulture
Is a man who loves his family and we can understand this we can relate to this that he feels his family is threatened
And and that the tipping point was you know, the um
The shocker thing where he threatens his family and stuff and he didn't even know that it would kill him
But after he died shocker
He wasn't fazed about it and he was pushed to that action to protect his family
That's a relatable understandable thing. We can we can see that progression how we
That his wife's work was called
Dad's trying to make a point
I had to get in on that. I'm sorry
So good
Yeah, like being insulted that his work late in our life's work was called bath. I mean
He got fired
Yeah
Didn't ring didn't ring true to me like I admit there are cases where people who get fired can be pushed over the edge
Yeah, he did he's definitely insane like his actions like his actions
Identify him as you say
No, but you remember the scene where like, um
He finds out that that drone went missing and he's like, you know, you know
None of us want to pull it in our head, right?
Right and you know and then there's the parts where he starts screaming to like fire all the drones
He's more unhinged than our vault. Yes. See see to me that just strikes me as the whole mustache twirling villain
I don't believe I don't think he's mustache twirling there are still
I don't see any justification for him being he wants to be an avenger. He wants to be an avenger and he wants to do it
because he feels like
They live in a I mean you remember how he said don't apologize for being the smartest person in the room
That's like that's him. He's the smartest person in the room and he's got nothing to show for it
You know, he's intelligent
He created this illusion tech
But the only way to be recognized for your achievements in the mcu is seemingly to fly around shooting lasers in a cape
And so I can't believe you're subverting my poll
Why your pulse suck? No, he's talking to me
Your poll is confusing
Nobody's we can't be friends anymore because of this you i'm sorry
Your poll made no sense and I felt bad for the chat. I did this for you chat. Perfect sense
Mine makes more sense. Look at the
Carry on
Yeah being recognized for you know your work and
An aspiration to be the next iron man is not a direct
Equivalence to leading someone to be like no he was insane. He was insane and then but see
Like he's more established as a normal person who had a job. He got insulted. He got ticked off
He's a psychopath which means that he's good at lying case in point. He tricked peter
What's what's a cliche villain because that same argument applies to a cliche mustache twirling villain. Yes
Evil because they're evil. Is he well, what do you mean cliche? What he's he's not evil because he's evil
He's unhinged and he wants to he wants to be presented as a hero
like this is why vultures are good a villain because
The regular person and we can see how a regular person can be pushed to that extreme
I can also see how a mildly unstable guy
Could become a little bit more messed up if he spent years developing something
Another rich guy took credit for it and then fired him
Like it's people getting fired like it's it's not exactly a great thing to happen
There are ways to sell that villain archetype
They didn't execute it well in this way because they didn't do the backstory. They didn't show you how they did do the backstory
No, no, they didn't show you he was invested
He said he was invested in it saying it isn't showing it if they if they went through
Like if they went through and showed him working on it and how much he invested in how much he sacrificed to do it
Did he lose the idea he after abandoned loved ones to achieve this great thing of achieving this life work?
And then it being belittled but even being belittled doesn't really rob him of the success of
They think tony stark made it and he wants recognition because he made it. That's why he that's why he's mysterious
He wants to be the next iron man in terms of status
That's why he he was uh after the drone so that he could do his avengers level threat
So everybody would be like look at me i'm mysterious look at our great arm
And it worked because it worked in venice and it worked in our prague
He got as far as he could tell nick fury like it was working. It was an effective plan
I don't like his plan. We'll come back to his plan. I mean his plan works
All right, what how so do you mean like the drones or something?
Now i'll say that his plan worked, but it seemed I don't know. It didn't seem very uh believable to be honest with you
Well, like the uh the illusion tech
Well, I mean the illusion tech it definitely worked because um in that regard
But how did he know peter was going to suggest here have the glasses by?
So there's a couple of there's a couple of um narrative issues with his his plan that and yeah
This is the first one. How did he I feel like zima will over again. Honestly
What do you mean?
um where people are like well his plan was like this whereas um
Remember how he?
His plan was to keep doing this. Anyway, it just accelerated things. He even said well that was easy or like well
You know that makes it easier. He was building up to he had drones
He could still do smaller stuff
But he wanted the the massive drone so that he could do his avengers threat. It was only a matter of time
If not, he just keep making more drones. This actually comes to
You where the glasses work because one of his staff members said that she found out about the glasses because she worked for our stock industries
Yeah, see this comes to some fundamental issues. I have with the movie
Overall, uh, I don't think the glasses make sense. I think they create plot holes in the mcu. Uh, just by their mere presence
I don't i'm don't buy the fact that
Tony stark would have even given them to peter. Like I think that's an irresponsible movie. He's obviously not ready for him and
And that causes that this like peter parker having access to you know, a worldwide information net and death drones
This is where the you know argument can be made more fully that it undermines certain narrative beats that you can achieve with spider-man's story
Um by his limitations that now undermined by the fact that he has such a power in his
I mean, I mean as in the film he is more powerful than the drones. He beats the drones
they
If the whole if the whole drone army was set on to spider-man to kill him
We would expect that they would be able to kill him
But they didn't know he beat him
No, because like if you what a thousand drones around him all pointing at him from say 50 meters distance where he doesn't have enough
You know, um range to jump to and fight him and they just shoot him
In the movie the drones were chasing after him constantly. They did a lot of damage, but they didn't get him
Because yeah, but that's not being that's not being realistic to the actual power at firepower that the drones have
Okay. Well, I mean just an issue with the fight scenes
But hang on hang on we don't want to get derailed because going back. No, I I kind of don't want to skip this now
That you brought it up
um
like okay, I was controlling the drones and I could
Let's put it this way right the drone the drones are like what are the utility of the drones in um in certain instances?
like because
As it was showing our mysterious uses the illusion tech he created it
He has it on his wrist and he has to plan that ahead
So illusions aren't necessarily something that are going to work for spider-man unless he learns how to use it
But it's not really no. No. Yeah, just the firepower the guns the distance
What if he doesn't want to kill people like spider-man doesn't want to kill people so
I thought we're talking about that the drones are way overpowered. Yeah, but what you're saying is they undermine him
Because he can use them but he doesn't he has accident. Sorry don't kill people though
Spider-man doesn't kill people doesn't he he the dogs the space dogs don't you say I don't know
Like if it's not ignoring Osborn and he has access to all these drones, uh, yeah
Let's just send a few thousand drones killed. Yeah, but look at the collateral damage that the drones cause. I don't think he would use them
I like I think he would I don't why would he if there's something about it
Like they can be very precise and just say oh, yeah, go kill Norman or the green goblin
When he's dodging all those bullets in london if there were people around they'd be dead
Okay, so drones wait until Norman Osborn is further away from collateral damage than kill him
Well, what do you mean? Wait, he just won't he'll just bump
Point in which Norman Osborn would be vulnerable
I mean if if he knew that the drones were there, why wouldn't he just worldwide surveillance technology on top of this?
Where's Norman Osborn? When is he vulnerable? Okay is vulnerable
It is worthwhile to note that there's a good chance that spider-man would think that he still shouldn't use them anyway
I don't know
No, he gets pushed to the point where he will be more than happy to kill someone to save his loved ones
I don't I don't believe that I don't believe that he would um, even tom holland says spider-man wouldn't kill people
He only said the space dogs
Tom holland no, but like yeah, i'm not sure like if we look to chat if we can find an instance where spider-man might be willing to kill someone
Um, I feel that there
Are instances and I it probably more importantly even if there aren't instances
I don't think it betrays the core of his character to be willing to do that
So it doesn't betray the core of his character to kill people
But it betrays the core of his character to have drones that he can use to help him out. It undermines
The limitations that has served his character very well to create conflict and to overcome
So I mean certain people undermines the limitations that he has to deal with conflicts
Oh, oh fringy hear me out this is important, right? So
Characters when you're creating a character and what they can do if they have superpowers
Especially what they cannot do is actually far more important
And i'm referring to reina sanderson's laws of magic here
Like he's actually written several papers that go into how to employ magic and spider-man's powers are a magic system essentially
Into a story and what they cannot do is far more importantly what they can do
This is the problem with superman because superman is so overpowered you run into narrative limitations
With what you can do because of his powers. So the more power you give a character
Yeah, I know this is to overcome problems. Well now spider-man has just been given a huge lot of power, right?
Which will undermine well a mysterious had it and he still beat him. So evidently the drones aren't
He was an idiot
If I had the if I had the drones or spider-man uses drones because this this is the thing right to try and create the the uh
Conflict for for instance mysterious had them had the drones and he failed
The only way that they were able to make him fail with him is because he wasn't using them very smart
No, no, no mysterious very nearly killed spider-man as far as he should have known the train would have gotten him
And that was pretty smart
He fucked with him and got him on the train track and got the information out of him and he nearly died
So you do so hang on buy that logic buy a lot that logic you then agree that the drones could do
No that they're overpowered you just said that he was almost killed by you blowing the drone
That was my stereo not the drones
Mysterio knows how to use the drones. So if the trains are used effectively, they are extremely overpowered and they could
No, because spider-man has them now that removes so many of the um narrative
Conflict and limitations that serve good pot by him possessing them if he comes across green goblin
So these drones could kill green goblin. They could kill
They could kill so many things like like they
Didn't want to kill misterio, but he'd kill green goblin they
Look, you could even use the drones to incapacitate green goblin fairly effectively
So even by saying that he wouldn't use him to kill he would definitely use them and by him
Mere fact, he has such a powerful tool
This one and this is separate to the spider suit because of the spider suit. He has enough limitations
It's not overpowered. This is overpowered and it hamstrings what you can use
Um in his plot to give him appropriate limitations for the villains. He usually faces if I can just I just want to jump in
Okay, and i'll jump right back out. But my take on the drones is that they are most effective
when uh
Misterio is able to use them illusion style and apparently he needs to be within the vicinity of peter and you know
Understand his up down left right, you know while he's on the bridge
He seems to just send them after peter now and our understanding of the drones is they can shoot bullets
They can fire pulse shots. They can probably throw a flame thrower or something
And so even when they're in their hundreds, they're still
Pretty drony and we're dealing with a spider-man who is very talented and the film
Does from what I can tell make a pretty good effort to show spider-man pulling off some pretty crazy moves to give like
Collect them all up and damage a lot of them at the same time if you know what I mean
Man, I don't even really care about spider-man
He's here for the roller coaster
It's like I have so little to ever add to this I just listened to you guys
See yeah
Yeah, so like the fact that the the drones weren't fully sicked on him at the at the beginning of it
He was able to sneak in and do his taser webs to take out a good number or good. I'm on board with that. Okay
but and I
Agree that you of course spider-man is not going to lose lose in his own film
So you're going to structure the fight scene in such a way that is going to win
I feel that is robbing some of the
Like realism that could actually happen if you were to say, okay, spider-man can do this. These are his strength
These are his limitations. The drones can do this
Okay
if the drones just surrounded him at a 50 meter distance and
He you know spider-man isn't going to get cover and he can't reach them to take them out and they just shoot him
He's not going to be able to do much to stop
Can you say like well, you know if the us army just set up
Right in the middle of a desert and there was no cover and it was a broad daylight
You could probably beat them
It's like yeah, but you don't put yourself in a situation where that happens spider-man is in cities and in dense areas
So the drones aren't particularly useful in that setting because he can swing around he can go into places
He's more maneuverable than that. Yeah, they're useful in a sense
But like spider-man has an advantage in not only that he's super powered and that they're drones, but he's more maneuverable
He can move more quickly
Yeah, so hang on. Hang on you're arguing the point that spider-man can fight against these drones and even though he can and he did
I'm not i'm not on board with that just on a realism logical sense
But that's not my main issue. My main issue is that he has the drones
And this and they're too powerful it undermines the narrative that you're that you want to explore with the spider-man
Look, you know how like when a soldier goes to war they're not necessarily going to bring
Rpgs with them. They might they'll bring like their assault rifles and their pistols and knife
But they're not all going to bring rpgs like 10 grenades
Less
Unless they knew the villain they were facing and that if rpgs were needed against that villain, of course
I'd bring him with him unless it's a call duty match and rust
The point i'm making is that you know
As I mean the fact that he doesn't use the iron spider suit
Like he doesn't take it with him on his trip would tell us that spider-man recognizes that
His suits are tailored for different purposes. No, I just thought he wouldn't be able to get it through customs
Um, what the and the fact and the fact and the fact he didn't want to be spider-man
No, no, but what I have is like what what I mean is um
You know if he's if he's working on his suit and he's like, okay
I'm gonna go up against drones
I'd probably want to use my iron spider suit or something like that
But in a different situation like he built his suit knowing that he had to fight the drones. So
He must have thought that it was better for him to not be using iron or really hard things so that he could get around and be quick
No, no, no, no, he just he didn't have access to the nanotech. I'm sure if the nanotech was available
Did he not have the nanotech on the ship?
Oh, that's my assumption because if the nanotech was available and he didn't take it that was bloody stupid
I think I agree with shad on that actually. Okay. What that he what if there was nano
All right. What if there was nanotech or whether he would take the thinking about it against drones, he probably would want
Yeah, yeah, yeah, the iron spider suit
Yeah, so I assume he didn't have that option
But we we were we were shown him declining the iron spider legs. Oh
Yeah
Okay
So when he was choosing his suit
It shows the iron spider legs and he like he like sort of sways it away
Like I don't want them so implying that the iron may have been an option
In which case yeah, he probably should have used that that's a bit of a problem
And if someone made the argument that he's not dexterous enough
I'd be like he's pretty dexterous in infinity war when he's grabbing everybody
Exactly now a question I have right is does he have edith at the end of the movie?
Or does he only use edith to turn it off? Does he?
Does he have it the tech or did he you know, I thought he did
I don't know. I guess nobody else to give it to we don't know what he's done with it. Exactly
I mean, he's showing himself irresponsible with it. And so he tried to get rid of it
Uh to misterio and again, I didn't like that. He started trusting misterio so easily
But he tried to get so okay can make sense by the end of it that he might have given them to someone else
My issue with the glasses is their very existence. I feel is a bit of a plot hole
Because the only time in which tony stark could have decided to give them to peter is during the events of
You know in endgame essentially and that means that they were in existence during endgame
So why the hell isn't he using him? I don't know army of drones would have been useful during that big time
That's a good point. Yeah, I agree
And so I have an issue with that I have an issue that he decides to give them to peter parker. Um, I mean
Peter parker is a teenager. You're gonna give him a teenager an army of death drones
No, even look tony stark is responsible, but it's not that irresponsible
And he's already showing himself that is going to be hesitant
Giving things to teenagers by the fact that he asked for the suit back that could say that he has a measure of trust
For peter parker, but does he have that much trust to give an army of death drones?
Especially when the true successor the look like this thing thematically
from a meta example
You like yeah, okay, peter parker can might be the type of successor you want for iron man
But in world it's the no it's the is no way would he be
Rodi war machine, uh, yeah, I mean that was that was where my mind first went to
I mean if anyone was going to receive those glasses, it would have been war machine
Is war machine smart enough to really handle the time? I I think we'd have to concede that he's a much better choice than peter parker
at this juncture
Is I don't recall war machine being quite as smart in order to like really get things
I think on the idea of just saying that because he's black. I think it's more to do with him being responsible
Rodi's probably high up there on the responsible ladder out of all of them. What's that? So, um
Well, do you necessarily have an issue more with
You know getting given the glasses the what I like like supporting evidence for why he would have them
Is that tony would trust that peter would know who to give the glasses?
I kind of like the sentiment of that like peter recognizes the goodness in people or something
Ironically, he fucks up with mysterious. Um, yeah
But I do take issue with the idea that tony would give peter what is essentially the power to like almost destroy cities
It's a bit you know to the greatest degree i'm trying to think of what they could do. I guess um, I guess the thing is is was
So the the illusion tech is integrated into the drones
Which means that tony must have been aware of the illusion tech, right?
Yeah
Okay, right that makes it a little bit because it because it was like oh
Mysterio gets the drones and then he messes with the drones to make him like that. It would be another thing
But they were fully equipped. No, I know that's what i'm saying because um in the in the london part
They just get deployed straight from uh, from space and do exactly what they need to do straight away. So
Yeah, that makes it a that's uh
Yeah, that's an interesting one. And that is what the entire pot seems to hinge upon
Essentially, well, especially the last big, you know fight and everything
It's all about getting the glasses
And so the glasses mere existence is an issue for me
The fact that he gives them to peter parker is an issue for me the fact that misterio
How would would did misterio?
His crew that knew about the glasses the film does
See that one is very convenient for me. I can it's like all right. Yeah, but
Yeah, still don't like it
Well, I mean is it is it unbelievable that he still has connections within stock industries and people would have to be involved in stocks
A state in terms of the liquidation or the spread of whatever things to whatever people there's going to be a you know
A line of so so what did he have written down?
These glasses will go to peter parker or these glasses will go to nick fury to give to peter parker
possibly
I don't know
Yeah, I guess
See why would he choose to go through nick fury?
Why could he just why couldn't he send war machine pepper pots or whatever to go through hey peter? Um,
You know, mrs. Beiber stuck. He really loved you. He wanted to give you these
I don't know. I don't know. Well, I I don't know. I I don't know. It's a bad choice. Well, the the thing here is that
um, misterio, the only reason he tries to get chummy with nick fury is so
To get get the glasses essentially be there when nick fury gives the glasses to peter
And uh, yes, and he and also we know that a lot of other avengers are sort of out of commission at the moment
There's a lot of avengers that could have been far better
So we know that um, the only one that I think would be skull witch is questionable where she is
But the ones that are the most effective they explain like thor's not available captain mob was not available. Dr
Strangers isn't available. I don't see what falcon or bucky could do war machine
What could he do you shoot ball machine
Well, what about the water one you just shoot bullets at it, what about the wing one you shoot bullets at it
Like it's just gonna go through it
Well, no if he would if he did a spray of bullets into those things without even knowing he will actually end up hitting one
Expose the entire you know, you're arguing from this is the thing though. We're arguing. Why would we bring war machine in?
What like
Nick fury all you need to do is make a phone call. That's what he did with spider-man
And it would be far more effective
Like if you're asking what could war machine do you really need to be asking what the hell could peter parker do?
Spider-man from nick fury's perspective will only be able to punch and hit what a giant well
They do the lava monster. He's able to
Pack parts like materials into it that degrade its power
With its way. So war machine could have done that scarlet which could have done that. Um, uh, I think falcon and um, uh
What's his name the arm guy, you know winter soldier could have done it as well
It is uh worthwhile to note that skullet which has a bad track record
Uh, she created ultron. She screwed up in lagos
She's unwieldy and when there are people around it might be dangerous to have her around
I don't know. Do we know where she is right now as well?
like I like it's a
There's like what i'm trying to say here. No, no, no is that um,
Mysterio would have had no way to know that tony stark would have called spider-man for help by establishing these monsters
In actual fact, it would have been far more logical to expect him to call any number of heroes because did misterio know
That thaw was off world. Where did he get that information? Did he know that captain marvel wasn't available or or?
Mysterio an actual fact from his perspective
He should expect that any number of the avengers that are still around would have been a point of call before spider-man
I have a quick question
Um, how much and this is another thing on its own that we'll probably get around to but
How much of this can we attribute to the fact that that's not the real nick fury?
What do you mean probably a decent amount because he's not a savvy
Yeah, like making making poor choices apparently a consistency for talus in this movie
but the thing is that would only
have
anything to say on regards to
Mysterio's
Expectation of what nick fury would do if misterio knew that this was a fake nick fury. I think from a
perspective you didn't know but
Mysterio wants to get the glasses and his plan was to make monsters to get nick fury involved to them
Call spider-man to come along to be given the glasses to then chum me up to spider-man. Well the glasses like
Considering that misterio knew about the edith glasses
He already knew that they existed and he knew that they were meant to be given to peter parker because of the person on the inside
So there's a lot of reason to think that uh, he'd be able to
Wouldn't have even gone straight to peter parker then like he actually tries to recruit nick fury first
Which means yeah because nick fury's got the edith glasses like nick fury
And then and then he is gambling massively to think that nick fury would go to spider. He is he is gambling
It is profoundly stupid is it not necessarily to have a plan that might not go up
I was about to say I think it's the best plan he's got though
Like what what else can he do to try and get access to those glasses?
Other than wait with nick fury until the day that he gives them away to peter. Well presumably
That's the purpose of him having a glasses. So oh, he needs
He has access to invisible drones already not a huge number but enough
And wouldn't they have been effective just to observe nick fury until he passes off the glasses
If he knew that his nick fury's intention was to give the glasses just wait until he does it and then approach peter
The thing yeah, but then the whole point is he needs to
Just send a drone into peter parker's room and pick them up off his night
He needs authorization from peter to wear the glasses he needs to get
So once peter has him he could then have established the whole monsters in new york
Well, I think it would be a little it would be very convenient that the moment he gets the drone glasses suddenly
All of these attacks start happening
Because bad guys appear in the mcu all the time that wouldn't be right
But what I mean is like I think I think it's like because the way that the plan worked had that drone not been lost
Peter would have been none the wiser
Whereas if peter got approached by mysterious gave him the glasses and then like later on a bunch of these attacks happen to be like
huh
interesting that
As andrew may just highlighted in fairness. So this this trip is taking place
Where peter has gone to venice and then oh
Yeah, the idea is
They generate a water monster in venice. That's a bit convenient
It's like it's almost like mysterious doing that on purpose to push spider-man into the fray
Yeah, but that's already taking into the fact that he approached nick fury first with a monster previous to this
Well, he's got to establish his hero presence regardless and nick fury is the network of heroes on earth
Sorry, it was luck that he uh, no i'm saying that he's got to do that regardless
But then he finds oh peter's heading on a trip at this time. Okay, how can we make this way venice?
Oh the attun we can make the water eternal elemental turn up there
So
I don't know. So you're saying he was he was watching peter parker and learned of his trip to venice before he
Decides to want well all he has to do
In terms of the elementals since he's in control of them is he defeats one in front of fury and and hill
And then he can wait as long as he wants before he generates the next one and he finds out oh peter's
It was already pretty established that we know where the monsters are appearing like he had their he tells them that
So he would have set it up in venice it seemed to have been established that he had already told them previous to peter parker
Even meeting them. Well, it's worth
Yeah, I don't think this is addressing that he could
Um guarantee in any measure that nick fury would have gone to spider-man as the first person to get
To help in this situation. I would imagine that he would go to him in the uh in if he's in venice, which is where he is
Although all we know is the actual time so you'd have to look at dialogue exactly
How long ago did the rock one happen and didn't nick fury try and contact peter parker before he even left? Yes
yes
so
The fact that peter parker's on his way to venice even if they knew that the next monster was going to be in venice
Doesn't does not in any measure
Did like make it that he would be more likely to contact than any of the other number heroes especially?
Like if this is a teenager who's supposed to be in a class trip or whatever
Wouldn't you think a dedicated person whose full-time job is doing this be a better person to contact like war machine like the scarlet witch?
like you know again, uh winter soldier falcon
Contacting him moments before he goes on his trip to venice would still fall in line with the idea that he knows he's going to be
in venice
Because he calls him the day before he leaves
Yeah, yeah
but again
I don't think that discounts the thing that there's a whole number of heroes that he really would like
Mysterio would not have been out of guarantee that nick fury would have contacted spider-man
It was met like it's a plot hole. It's like
Hey, what about spider-man?
I wouldn't call it a plot hole. I think it's silly that they didn't call more people in as well
But I don't see why you wouldn't call spider-man
Well, it just seems dumb to me
I think there was a whole number of more convenient ways to be able to ensure getting these glasses from peter parker
then
A lot of things where there's a lot of chances for it to go wrong
Which makes it feel contrived and convenient that it you know goes the way that misterio had planned and stuff
Sorry guys, I really got to go to the toilet
We've been doing this for hours already, but i'll be back in a sec. Okay
Did um according to rad sparker
It says fury said did say you're all we've got did he say that
Well, I I just remember that there was that scene where they were talking about, you know
All these people are unavailable and that's why they were coming
I mean, I gotta imagine that there are other things going on that um, make it difficult to get other heroes
Um, I mean the three most important ones being well the three most powerful ones for dr
Strange captain marvel all had explanations for why they weren't available and those are obviously the first people they would have gone to
Um, and again, I think skull at which you could just say well look at in the past
We bring her into civility and populations and look what happens. She's too unwieldy to have in this setting
Um by comparison to dr
Strange who's quite in control of what he can do and things like that
Like I said, I won't settle for the idea that nick fury wouldn't call upon spider-man
I will settle for the idea that he probably should have called in
A few others that we know should be available. We have to get reasons for why they were I guess
Yeah, yeah, um, especially because as much as scarlet, which may be dangerous like well if these things are potential willed enders
Yeah, I get it
Um, I don't think that one line that he gave uh when he asked about captain marvel and said do not invoke her name
That was
Felt like a double meaning
Um, well, I think it's because talos, you know because talos has respect for her
So it makes sense that talos would say that whereas I don't think nick fury would give a shit
And I also wonder if that was like a subtle nod to like, please don't talk about
Actually
I feel like it could have been pretty cool for war machine to actually have
uh, you know been fighting it and not being confused as to what exactly it is and
Maybe get a bit more character for him, especially being that it's a recovery from iron man's death movie
I think it'd be suitable for him to be in it as well
Yeah, i'd be okay with him being in it. No, I know what mister. He should have done
He should have kidnapped. Is it ned peter's friend?
Yeah
No, you should have kidnapped ned and got ned to hack into the
Edith system to give him full access like he did with peter suit problem solved
I gotta imagine that hacking into edith is a bit of a step up from hacking into a suit
I don't know. They seem to be able to hack into whatever the plot needs and um
You'd think that there would be good protection on a suit that has an instant death mode
Uh to be able to prevent a teenager getting access to it before they're ready
I think the thing is like I see the suit as
Not only do you have access to the physical suits
You can make changes to the suit while you're there is a bit different to trying to hack into a satellite
Uh, hey, we don't know how good net is it hacking but all we know is pretty good already
So yeah, we know it's pretty good, but I guess the famous said that he should hack into it
I know i'm being a bit facetious here, right?
But i'm just trying to point out that there are a lot easier ways for
Mysterio to get access to this army of drones than the convoluted way we see him far from home in my opinion
Um, I mean I think it's I think it's partly to keep in mind that the plan is to establish him's reputation as a hero
And so to do that he needs to show himself doing heroic acts
Um and the escalation makes sense too because he gets in with uh fury firsthand
When he shows what he does with sand with the sand monster
um, he gets peter involved when he uh
When he um defeats the the water one and plus all that is important for him to convey to peter
I'm a hero. I'm trustworthy
Because for all peter knows he has no reason to doubt this guy
As far as he can tell he says the other convoluted thing as well, even though there's another issue that I want to bring up
I mean
how did like
How could he be so confident that he would be able to convince peter to give him the glasses?
What if he just said no i'm keeping him? Um because peter is like like if I was an outside observer
Knowing that okay, this is this father figure to this character. He is
Passing on a very significant, you know heirloom to this character that he's going to cherish
And I think i'm going to be able to walk up and through a few conversations and convince him to give them to me
Well, no, that doesn't follow logically
it's it's
Yeah, it makes much more sense for him to just try and steal them off of peter or off of nick fury
No, because how how is he then meant to get authentication?
He needs to earn his trust and you can see in the conversations that he has
He very deliberately does things and the film demonstrates things
That draw parallels between him and tony when he puts on the glasses
It's like yeah, he sees tony and mysterious
That's why he gives him and that's like the final push
He needs to give him to him because as far as he can tell
Mysterio was a hero who has just saved the world
Mysterio is like the only person in this group
Like with nick fury and that stuff is actually friendly to him and acts like he understands his problems and
Still how would he have known that peter parker would have given the glasses he doesn't know
Like it's so much to gamble on and not only this isn't a 50-50
This is like it would be so unlikely that an outside observer would think that someone would pass on
A cherished alien given from someone of importance to them that they just received
Like I don't think so. If you think about this logically from an outside observer
I find that very hard to believe that someone would think yeah
I'm gonna try and get them. Yeah, gotta consider context heavily here
And by the way, I want to I want to also contest the idea of like there's some kind of risk
What's the worst thing that happens if he doesn't fulfill the plan?
Okay, he carries on being recognized as a worldwide hero on smaller scale
All getting the glasses does is fast forward his plan. It doesn't it doesn't enable his plan
It's uh, he was he wanted to get an avenger's level threat, which means he needed more drones
And I think considering we can see has these drones already
It's just gonna be a matter of time before he has enough assuming he can make them. I think that's a fair assumption
So would you then consider that by recruiting another superhero to be very close to him, right?
Um, it just increases the risk of failure. Like wouldn't he want to get the attention but in the most assured
Method sorry the method that has the greatest assurance of success
Um, I mean it is worthwhile to know that mysterious is very ambitious
And driven to be
By the context of the film has been waiting for many years already. What's just another year?
How's it been waiting for many years? Yeah ever since iron man?
No, ever since civil war at least no, I think um, well, it depends on where you're drawing his start. Did he get snapped?
Yeah
Because if he got snapped then it's like
He could have spent years just like, you know depressed or whatever and then he hooked up with all these other x employees
You know, we don't know how long he's been enacting this plan exactly
Yeah, like maybe maybe what he was doing in those years was
Creating drones or finding ways to get access to drones and building up his drone army bit by bit
Yeah to the support like why would peter give him the glasses?
It's like well number one peter's got immense pressure on him right now that mysterious more than aware of
Mysterio is trying to get an immediate connection of like mentorship
Telling him like it's gonna be okay. You are smart. You're a good guy. You know, what's up
You you're gonna be fine every time fury's an asshole like mysterious sort of swoops the scene. He's like, hey, you're doing great
You're all right, like and and you know peter says it's like it's great to have someone to talk to about superhero stuff
He's like already connecting to him immediately the fact that peter sees that this guy
Died almost almost killed himself to save the world, which is something that someone else did recently
Um the idea that mysterious comes from this will that's been destroyed
I mean, sorry to interrupt but like
Couldn't another likely outcome beef to him showing peter that he was willing to sacrifice himself to save the world
Be that he inspires peter to live up to his full potential to keep the glasses. Yeah, potentially
So so then what he's doing is dumb to try and ensure whatever
Whatever plan you think he should enact I would say
Would probably be better as a backup plan to the one he's trying to do here where he gets it
Voluntarily versus doing something coercive. I don't know that I disagree with because this plan has so many options for failure
It even has a chance of pushing peter in the opposite direction to what he wants
And so I feel if this is a guy who has any measure of brains and he wants a plan
That has a highest chance of success. That's the way he's gonna go
Honestly like get the glasses steal when they're on the coffee table or something and just hack into the system
Like with enough concerted effort with the resources with the people who with the people he has access to who are inside
You know former employees of stark tech and all that stuff
Surely someone would be able to hack into this. That's the problem. Your plan just assumes you can hack into it
Yeah, of course, but the the the current one assumes that you can't and that's just as well
No, no, no, so i'm
As much as I am critical of the idea that you can hack into them because I don't think that's necessarily true
Even if it is that's the backup plan then
If it doesn't work if peter doesn't give up the glasses just keep a drone on him until he puts the glasses down and take him
I reckon going to peter to get access would be the backup plan
The first point of one is to try and hack into it because it has less risk
If you hack into it and then they're like, oh someone's hacked into our fucking hologram drone network
There's no guarantee that they'll be able to detect it
Oh stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop stop
If you use an army of drones that are not authorized by peter parker something's going to be up
No, no, so no i'm saying I thought you would say someone would be able to detect inside
So there's a there's a chance of failure to that one then
That conclusion is as arbitrary as them not being detected because that's the way the narrative they choose to do the narrative the reason
Both are as valid. So
Your point doesn't contradict mine. The reason why we would suggest plan a be attempt to convince peter to give it willingly is that
Mysterio can use them whenever and however
Infinitely if he hacks into it the second he starts using them. They'll be like, what the fuck who's doing this?
And then a lot of action is going to be taken the hack was to give him full access
But that wouldn't it wouldn't have been authorized that's an arbitrary
That's kind of an arbitrary assumption. No, no, it wouldn't it wouldn't be it wouldn't be authorized. So there's a problem the government's
Fury spider-man find the code
If you can hack in find the code and get full access as if you are the you know master user
There's no detection. There's no problem. They're able to do it. What do you think that they will think is happening when the drones are being used?
So hang on you're assuming that someone is monitoring the use of the drones that's already established that no one is peter has full access of
The drones and there's no one monitoring him and saying you just accidentally nearly killed there's like an army of them that launch out of space
Yeah, that's not that's not even present in the movie as is
No one's watching the use of the drones already. No, I mean so the idea that they'll eventually be used there's this down the line
Because remember nick fury knows that he authorized a drone strike on the kitten class. So that's
He knows but he didn't take the glasses off him. He had no power to stop the use of the drones
He had no access to the system
No, but what I mean is like if somebody knew that then surely if somebody hacked into the system and then launched like a thousand drones
They would be able to find that out
And if it and if they
By monitoring it registers as peter parker is launching a full drone because they have full access and they're able to access it
As if peter parker is doing it
That's what they would see it as right and all they have to do is ask peter if he did it. He'd be like no
At which point they'd be like, okay, so someone's infiltrated our drone network at the same time
So hang on hang on but that's what they could have done already when mysterious had him and launched heaps and stuff
Mysterio was on the inside and he had access
Yeah. Yeah, so
Launching the drones isn't a suspicious thing as established already in the film
Now no one would have questioned it. What you mean at the end when he launches all the drones to attack in London
Yeah, no one
Well, do you remember how in the scene like uh
The scientist just takes 500 drones and then he takes like a usb disk or something then
So like they have some sort of inside access to the drone network
Which can I I don't mean to judge. I just want to say even though i'm sounding very impassioned about this
This is just because i'm enjoying the argument. I love you guys. All right
Oh, yeah, no, this is like this is enjoyable for me. Not
Wait, wait, wait, wait. Hold on
You love us. I love you guys
Oh god, it's the gaze infected him already
Yeah, let's move on well i was gonna say so the overall purpose of this point is uh
The feasibility of his plan shad you think that he should have hacked it?
I think his plan as it stands was probably the best gamble and that he could just do your plan as a backup
Yeah, and I understand that um
but yeah
Good to know
Like I get this is a point. I think we won't be able to see eye to eye, but we have voiced our reasons quite adequately
Yeah, yeah, I agree
so
Oh, sorry, I don't want to interrupt you do you have a thing
Well, I mean we still I still don't think there's plenty of movie to talk about so pluses and cons
Yeah, like uh, my my biggest issue is peter parker's
Characterization that he is selfish unlikable. He is actively trying to avoid responsibility
at the legitimate risk of many lives, um, and
That sucked that was uh, it didn't impress me. It didn't make me like him as a character. It didn't make him appealing
And it was also so not only was it bad on those levels, but it contradicts the spider-man character quite strongly on top of that
Would anyone like to
I've already talked about it a decent amount. Maybe maul wants to
Say I've probably talked third most I want to make sure uh, we've got two other people here. Do they want to talk though?
Yeah, I was I was gonna ask you to repeat the point because I had a bit of a work emergency. I had to quickly
I'm sorry. Would you be out and why is it is currently dying of radiation sickness? I can't pay attention to this now
I'm interested in hearing how mauler would contextualize my viewpoint in this because sometimes that just is instructive to know on how you
Have people understanding what i'm saying what specifically?
What I disliked about peter parker
Um, well if you're going to you saying like how would I convert it into an issue that I might hold?
No, no. Well, yeah, I guess it doesn't matter. I was just because i've been speaking a lot. I was like
I like listening to you. So
I mean
Well, do you know we'll we'll start from beginning. It will be me and you. All right, so, uh
Present problem and I will move from there selfish unlikable
um, uh
And actively avoids responsibility at the risk of many people's lives which is not an endearing heroic attribute in any measure
um
and
So not only are these all negative character traits that you can just look at independently
But it is also a big betrayal of the peter character that's established by all the works of spider-man. All right
um
So my take from homecoming as we've sort of discussed, uh, do we do a defab about that?
I don't remember. I think that might have happened. Um, so the idea being that he's
Uh, that was cute
Oh god, the shot
Okay, uh, I feel bad uh casey misses it so
Homecoming doing doing the why uh, but the big big lesson being the whole um, you're supposed to approach pick your battles
Do it do it properly. Don't just rush in don't
Do another people can take care of it homecoming
There are some battles spider-man is not supposed to be involved with just like every hero to a degree. Um
Not to say that there's hang on
And on what standard are you referring to when you say that there are some battles is not supposed to be involved in
Usually and this is the standard that exists with the peter parker character
It does not matter if someone's life is at risk is going to run in and try and help no matter what
Absolutely. And um, what is with the fairy? I think that that would
Follow through the idea is trying to help people prevent bad guys from doing bad things
Uh, but it doesn't work out too well
And as typically would be understood we could draw a lot from the fbi the idea that they would have had the sting
Perfectly down if not for him
Uh, I for lack of a better word activating or or um making the bad guys aggressive early
Before the the fbi could put them in a position
Like vulture gets to his suit before the the fbi may have been able to lock down that van and they also think spider-man's a bad guy
Distracts the hell out of them. So spider-man being there made everything worse is kind of what i'm getting at
And then if you take the lesson of you're supposed to go you're supposed to responsibly not only pick your battles
But also fight them in a specific way. Maybe not just you know, just go that's bad guy string him up easy
Like I think that that's pretty well executed with the whole guy rob. Uh, trying to break into his own car
He's like you're a criminal. He's like no i'm not i'm trying to get into my own car
And like it's it's just the it's not as simple as it may seem on the surface
Combine that with the traumatic experiences he had in infinity war and end game. I don't think he think can I just interject here?
Because the whole point about his experience on the ferry was overcome by his experience defeating the vulture
And so to me that would reinforce his understanding and desire
To jump into the fray and help even when he is so
Outclassed because he didn't have the fancy suit to help
He only had his own abilities and that's all and he had to try and beat someone flying in this jet high in the sky
Where if he drops no matter what he's going to die
That seems to establish like the character type quite strongly that he is going to help and there is no reference at all that
He has any traumatic
You know negative feelings from the end game in infinity wars to make him
Not try and help people or be spider-man in any measure. That's not mentioned a bit
I mean is is sorry tony stark died and is dealing with that but nothing
Should be changing his motivation in such a drastic way like this. So in homecoming when he does the hang on
If it trying to say something
so on the ferry the
idea being
The this is something that tony was aware of it's a weapons trade with gargans the gargan deal or whatever
It's something that people are aware of the fbi are involved vulture stealing
With the high altitude seal is something that he's made aware of in that moment
And as far as he's aware, no one else knows so it's on him to decide whether or not he's going to prevent this thing
From happening. Is he going to prevent the proliferation of a bunch of alien weapons to more street level gangs?
It's like this is there is no one else here spider-man is the only one that can act upon this now when it comes to
Completing homecoming. I see it as him being like, yeah, so there are times i'm supposed to act in times that I won't
Or times i'm not supposed to times I can make things worse while his philosophy in civil war was just help people when you can
Because helping people good while homecoming is
Yeah, sorry to interrupt. I don't mean to but before you keep going
Like you might go on to a different point that
From the one I want to address about are there times in which I shouldn't get involved that is so contrary
to the spider-man character for one, but it's also a
less satisfying hero
Than one that's willing to help no matter what even if i'm outclassed and on top of this
He had no idea what the threat was when
Tony stark was trying to call him all he knew
Tony stark was trying to call him which would imply that there is something bad happening that he wants spider-man's help with
And he didn't even want to talk to him at that point because my trip, you know
Go and do you mean nick fury's calling him? Yeah, when nick fury was trying to call him
He was trying to tell me I was getting really confused
I get nick fury and tony stark myself. It's all good. Um, yeah, yeah, so
right, I can't
counter argue that it's
Like a more endearing or more investing a more engaging story whenever you make that argument i'm stuck because it was like
Oh, is it? I don't know
Is some of the guy like I think this is based on some important objective character traits that make a good likable
hero like this and
Like these selfish choices that peter parker is making
Does not come across as noble as heroic as even like it comes across as selfish now
Could it have been executed in a way where?
It was more believable more likable and more in line with not only his motivations in other
Spider-man works but his motivations in the previous movie like I mean, I haven't gotten too far from home yet
I'm still stuck on homecoming. I can't move across
I'm still trying to get there. I'm talking yeah, i'm talking about um
His dodging of nick fury and not wanting to which isn't far from home
Yeah far from home that that's even contrary to what's established in the mcu spider-man. I disagree
Why because that's what he learned from homecoming. Well shaz if you let me talk about far from home
If that's what we learned
If that's what he learned from homecoming that there are fights that he should be in fights that he shouldn't be in based on
important context then we have infinity war and endgame where he's
Killed brought back to life and then placed into this enormous war where he's rescued by captain marvel
After nearly being beaten to death because like he loses his spider legs and he's like bleeding all over and then uh
The beginning of far from home. He's presented with tony's dead
You know who's next is he you?
It's like whoa. He just went from being like told that he maybe shouldn't
uh help a fairy
To trying to save the world nearly dying to are you the next guy who's going to be perfecting everyone from thanos level threats?
It's like uh, I don't know what like since when was it and then you get the the nice moment with the photos where he has
like a ptsd
Style shockwave of just like I need to get out of here. Like I can't take this pressure. This is insane
He doesn't know if that's who he is. Is he supposed to be iron man?
I don't know and then nick fury the only reason he would call him as happy
I think points out is like he's clearly got a new mission view. He's clearly gonna be important one
He's just like I don't that's not I want to I want to have a life
Which is a big part of homecoming as well
The fact that he doesn't actually enjoy his life being sacrificed by spider-man. So yeah, he just wants to have a trip
He doesn't even know what the danger is. He just doesn't want anything to do with it right now
He wants to have his life back after he just saved the world, which is pretty reasonable
Then when the threat is put right in front of him
He acts I don't think so because
But the very most basic assumption of nick fury calling him is that people's lives are at risk
And so by him choosing to go on the trip because he just wants a life
And what is this where?
It's a contradiction of the very concept of spider-man that you know, maybe a great responsibility
And that he is always going to try and help people out even at the detriment of his own convenience where this is
exactly the opposite of that the other thing is that
Um, I think there was an assumption in what she made there in what he learned from homecoming that there are some
You know fights in which she needs to step out of
I think the exact opposite is established in homecoming that no matter the fight
He's going to go in and try and help like I I think that was quite strong
I don't know where you're getting this different. How could you possibly conclude that from the ferry?
But how could you because it's overcome by the end of it
Like my my my argument is the because the ferry has a context
Wait, wait, the ferry has a context in which he's not needed the tony told him right from beginning that these are police level threats
They're not avengers and that he should be sticking close to the ground vulture at the end
No one knows about it. So it's on him and it's a it's a time sensitive problem, too
Well, not really because the way that tony flippantly mentioned that yeah
I mentioned the fbi his belief was that no one was helping out in the ferry situation either
And then that was proven wrong when people were and so based on that he could actually still rightly expect that
The authorities are going to deal with vulture
Especially with tony stark saying give me the suit
You're not ready and all that stuff let the big boys handle it essentially
And so he should rightly expect that the big boys are going to handle vulture in this instance as well
The big boys aren't aware of what vulture is doing at the end
He didn't think anyone was aware of the um
The fairy thing he was told they were
Not bad
They're chasing his weapons deals in a flipping way and he didn't think it was being taken seriously
And it wasn't his belief was that no one was dealing with that issue
And we're not actually considering
The and the other important is
He felt no one was dealing with it
That's why he was dealing he felt he needed to and then he was proven wrong
And that's the same kind of approach to the final fight with uh with vulture
And it's not
In the final fight with vulture. He tried to contact our happy hogan. So let him know and he hung up
Yeah
That's absolutely true
But I don't think it undermines the point that
Could have started could tony stark have been you know on point to deal with it or I think it does undermine that
entirely
Because what he like if he called happy in the boat situation happy would have
You know fobbed him off just as easily
And so but there we go. There were still people there ready to
Remember spider-man's trying to ignore calls. He's actually upset that tony call get through gets through on the fairies
The point you were making is that happy's uh disregard of peter seems to establish then
That that means no one was there ready to help and if he did that with happy at the boat situation
I think happy would have passed him off
You know saying i'm busy just as much and yet still people were there to help out
So I don't see the through line that that proves that
Peter could have been absolutely sure that no one was helping in that situation
In fact by the by the if you're going along the reasoning because people were there on the ferry
Contrary to his expectation ready to help and stop the bad guy that would generally set a stronger precedent to expect someone to be there
And so I phoned them
Only happy
What do you mean only happy?
He answered he called well, he's he's arrived at the problem by the time happy is declined
Yeah, but I think isn't that the only contact he has if you remember tony says you don't have direct contact with me
It's happy happy's your point man. Yeah
So he has ned contact happy happy ghosts them which leaves them with no choice
I mean we are getting bogged down
But I still think this point is solid what i'm making but let's go back to the the actual core of what we're saying
Is that what peter learns from this experience that?
It's not mentioned anywhere that
That to my knowledge that he decides there are certain fights
I need to step out of in actual fact
I feel that's contrary to spider-man's character
And I and again, I think the events of endgame point
I think that that would opposite that no matter what he's going to try and do his best to help regardless of his limitations
I think that would come entirely with the the concept of being responsible with your power
You don't just abrasionally approach every single situation
I think that's what civil war is heavily trying to complement as well. You don't abrasionally approach
But you do approach and always try and help
Is that what you're saying? Not necessarily like can the hulk help a situation?
Like lagos maybe you'd have to be very careful about that
While um, the context is would peter try and help and the answer is
Yes, I don't see anything established even in the mcu that would say no
sounds like you want a reason to
have peter be
Sure that whoever may be in trouble is going to be helped and he says several times too happy and then to fury
There's a whole slew of heroes. They're going to be used for this. I don't think they need me. I'm the neighborhood guy
I need they make sure to use that dialogue in the earlier parts of the film as well
Oh, see because if that's why you feel peter parker was dodging uh, nick fury at the beginning of far from home
I know that doesn't that doesn't ring true because the very fact nick fury is trying to contact peter
Would obviously infer that this is a job that he needs peter parker's help for yeah, nick fury
I assume from from the dialogue that nick fury calls like willed ending calls. That's how he sees them
He's not that guy
Why would nick fury call him if he's like, hey, so there's some cunts down the road
Um, can you beat them up? They're stealing bikes or something? And i'm pretty sure
Clearly it's going to be some type of exceptionally bad thing where lives are at stake. That's obviously a given
Absolutely. Yeah, and he suggests that he shouldn't be the one who's called for that. He's the neighborhood guy
Well, not to mention that's what he says the guy he's
Yeah, and not to mention it's like the guy died like for five years
He lost it with liz and like he saw just a whole ton of things
Just go passing him by over the course of five years and and he's still 16 and he wants to you know
Get his life in order just for a little bit
He wants to make it with a girl that he's interested in now because he lost it with liz
And he he fought with like an entire army of avengers. He it's not like
You know, it's not so bright
Yeah, it's uncalled for him to think that there's plenty of people
I think there are some assumptions made there
Just assuming that because he fought with the avengers that will make him more
Reluctant to try and fight that level of events you could say he describes
No, because he fought with the avengers and succeeded that could or should or that's a fair interpretation
But he says in the film his brush with death and space was an accident
When did he say that i'm trying to remember?
It's when it's when nikfuri says bitch you've been to space and he says that was an accident
So
You think that justifies
His reluctance to help out in whatever situation where i think it highlights that peter is
Unready to become the hero of the world and he thinks that he's got loads of people prepared for that
See i mean the main arc of the film
I think was about peter sort of coming to grips with what his place is in the world and what kind of hero he is
because
like in the first movie
It's funny because it's kind of the inverse of what happened in the first movie in the first movie
He's so concerned with being a big big hot shot
And then he realizes like maybe I need to stand on the ground look out for the little guy for a while
And in this movie, it's like you you're being called upon
to
Be the big hero you need you need to step up and he's just scared obviously and not sure of his uh, yeah
The skin is fine. It's how you know, no, no, no, no if you it came across as
Cowardly selfish. I
unlikable
Before
Right. That's fine. That's fine. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. That's fine
We first got to decide if it's consistent with this character from homecoming in civil war once you if you agree to that
I'm happy to move on to whether or not it's a bad character trait to have
I think you need to take too many leaps to reach that consistency that on things that are not explicitly
Shown that way in the movies themselves. Uh, so I think you're giving the uh, the plot a little too much
uh concessions to reach that that you know consistency that you have I think if
You were to go with like akram's razor the most logical thing
So the result and stuff from the way that I view the films
I feel this is contrary to what the character has gone through previously and because there are multiple ways into life
You know the the fact that he fought with the avengers this big world thing and came out on top and they won
That could just as well have given him confidence for huge fights like that
He's got a really fancy suit to help him
Fight bigger harder things and that he has already been tested in a situation where he tried to go
Insert himself into a situation where he wasn't fully prepared for and he made a mess of it
But then he did it again with more confidence less, you know things on his side and everything
Like he didn't have the suit and he won in that instance
That sets him up to be even more confident more prepared to actually help no matter what
And so yeah, so you're saying two two results could happen and we're referencing dialogue pieces that support the alternate
Which are the dialogue pieces I just so for which for which which part because like for example him going to space
Considered an accident. It's an infinity war. He says I should have stayed on the bus
okay, so
That going to an accident. So that's him trying to reinforce the fact that he can't help in this situation
I would absolutely
Suggest that considering he's convinced by homecoming and and tony that he's the guy who helps the little people
The idea of him defending the world is quite a lofty concept. But once he's absolutely got to commit to it
He didn't know the world was at stake when fury was calling him only that he needed something that according to fury required spider-man's help
Yeah, and his logic in the film is that fury doesn't call me. He calls all the other heroes that protect the world. Not me
Isn't that an assumption though that that an ungrounded one that what if this dialogue suited to a skill
But if the dialogue is inconsistent with his character, that's what i'm trying to find
Is assuming that it would be about so i'm not saying dialogue is not present in far from home to establish the way
He's acting i'm saying that though those dialogue specifically are inconsistent with what was being established before this
I
Thought you said that it was equally possible that he would be bolstered by these events and i'm saying yeah
So you have events i was saying right?
So you have two outcomes that are possible and the film has taken one route and it has dialogue supporting it
But that's inconsistent with what we saw in the previous films. That's my point what specifically
Well that he'd be so willing to let people's lives be at risk to you know
He doesn't think they're at risk he thinks that the other heroes will be in line for it
So
I mean, how far do you want to take this logic?
Like if there's anyone in trouble all over the planet he has to go for them and save them
That seems to be well, that's certainly the spider-man character type and it's a better. There's no way there's no way any spider-man does
If there's any way in which he can help save lives he's going to try and help
At some point you have to factor an opportunity cost though
Like okay, I go off here, but who's going to be here in the neighborhood now?
You know what I mean? Like like when he says, you know, um, I can't be a friendly neighborhood spider-man if there's no neighborhood
It's like yeah
So, you know if the world ends then yeah, there's no neighborhood
But um, if there are other heroes around who can help out I can stay in the neighborhood
I can still help in the neighborhood. I'm still helping people
But i'm in a place where i'm better suited at least that's what he thinks
In part I would say just based on the discussions and the dialogue like do we have any neighborhood questions and stuff like that
so the question is
Uh, is that perspective established in?
infinity war
Um, you know his movies and stuff. Well in infinity war. Yeah when he when he uh goes up onto the ship
It's like that was being willing to take on a galactic level threats
Um, regardless of his own safety and everything. Well, yes
tony thought he didn't think it through tony was like you didn't fucking think this through did you um, yeah, but in nowhere
No, but in nowhere in infinity ward as you say
Yeah, I was a mistake to try and he said I should have stayed on the bus
When he gets onto the ship
Not to mention in infinity war he was with other avengers he saw them fighting at the same time
So he at least knew he had some backup whereas he knows in uh far from home
He has none because he even asks. Is anyone else available and no one is
So hang on that's in far from home you mean yeah except for mysterious basically, yes, except for mysterious
Okay, so when he says that, you know, I should have stayed on the planet
Look, i'm not sure that means he feels that i'm not going to try and help in situations where people's lives are at risk
It could just be an admission of the situation is in it's like now i'm in space and uh, this might have been a mistake
But it doesn't contradict his desire or willingness to help people when lives are at risk
and so i'm not sure that fully equates to him trying to dodge nick fury's call when he's calling up because
How what he has no idea what nick fury is trying to try and ask him to help out with
There's no guarantee that he thinks there's going to be someone flying into space
Is
Are you concerned that he's not specific about why he doesn't want to answer the call?
Wouldn't it make more sense even with this character that's been established in the mcu to at least find out why nick fury needs him
To then determine if he wants to help or not if you're going with the logic that he feels it's outside of his you know capacity
for all he knows it's perfectly within his capacity and
By him dodging them without even knowing what he wants. It's basically saying whatever it is
Whoever's lives are at risk could have been mj for all he know i'm going to put my own
Preferences my own comfort my own convenience before
Using my abilities to help people when I have the ability to help
Like I just i'd be repeat myself he sees uh fury as someone call in willed events that other heroes are supposed to take care of
Because he's neighborhood man
Like fury fury wouldn't call him in to defend new york because he's in new york it would be a very bizarre scenario
So he's assuming what precedent does he have to have that opinion nicks never called him before
Exactly. So why does he then think that it's world ending big cards nick fury was the head was basically the guy who assembled the avengers
So he deals in the big he doesn't deal in the small
No, it depends on scale because well, what do you mean like has he ever has has
There was a village in new mexico that got leveled that he went to try and find out what happened. Yeah
It's not a world ending event like what previous
you know, um
Go ahead well at that point he wasn't aware that it was a world ending event
Tells him that it's like a world ending. Yeah
But but also remember there were weird accounts because he said that apparently people saw faces in the wind. It's like, huh
That's odd. Maybe we should take away. That just means that just means general supervillain not world ending
Uh
Well, it's something strange that could be a problem
But there's no evidence to say this is a world ending event
And so the assumption or the assertion that nick fury only deals with the really big stuff
I'm, not sure is actually supported by the movies as established. He deals with
Anything that's a worry even a hammer in the middle of a desert that no one can pick up
so
I think he's not gonna call in spider-man for that. He doesn't call any heroes to go and deal with a hammer in the desert
Well, what are the issues in which he has called heroes in to help with?
The tesseract
Yeah, the tesseract and then he did it for um,
Hydro trying to take and that's an issue with winter soldiers like by them. They call iron man. Yeah winter
He hooked with ultron he was there he assembled the crew for ultron that we didn't see him for a while
Um, then yeah, he's gonna call them in the three main instances
Previous knowledge is yes be the parka have of nick fury as well
Well, I mean he he would know that he is the guy who assembled the event
He's essentially boss of the world's heroes. So if he's calling you directly then something big is going on
And you would assume that with so many lives at risk
He would be willing to help which is why peter says you don't call me
You call all of those other heroes including captain marvel the most invincible awesome power thing in the world
Why would you need me feels very inconsistent that response?
But look even if we want to move on from if it's consistent or not within the mcu
My larger issue with is that it's uh unlikable and that it's selfish and even a bit cowardly you might be might call it
So I you said
Unlikable quite a lot. How do you okay? How do you objectively grade that?
Selfishness, okay is generally a trait people find unlikable and yes, there are instances
Sure, we can say that it we can say that it that people find it unlikable like absolutely
But I mean, um, i'm not sure if you're familiar with it. Uh, joe abracrombie is the first law trilogy
Have you ever heard of that? Okay, can I just hold you up?
Because if you are going to give a specific instance where an unlikable character is either
Comes done perfectly well and everything. I fully admit that can be done
The issue is if they did it in this specific instance with peter parker and I would say no
Well, why?
Okay, in what way is his selfishness? Uh likable in this instance
What's can you give me an example of selfishness? Okay. So yeah, there's a number of um ways in which a character selfishness
Um or even whininess, right can become likable like house md the tv series
It's almost entirely structured around a selfish whiny character who complains but his complaining nature is directly in
In response to his competence because he sees problems that other people don't see and therefore he's able to save lives as a result
And so his complaining and also part of his selfish nature
Is a mechanism to save lives ergo. It creates a good positive character
There are ways in which you can make a selfish even whiny character likable for comedic effect if you guys have watched um
Stargate atlantis
Um, I forget his name
But there's a character who's really cowardly selfish whiny and everything and is my favorite character in the series
So in execution, absolutely it can be done
But I it has not been done effectively in this movie at all
It comes across as very unlikable and there's very few redeeming qualities
Can you give me a specific example from far from home where he was selfish that wasn't reconciled? Yeah
Yeah, he he wants to go on a holiday instead of potentially save lives
That's it
That's a pretty that's a pretty significant one i'd say
shad wait
Wait, just one thing and I want you guys to continue I really do but shad, you know
What would you say if I was to draw up a poll right now asking?
If he was likable or not in that film and for people to vote yes or no if the vote comes out
Let's say in a way that doesn't support the idea that he was
Generally unlikable in the film. What would you what happens then?
I would probably restructure my wording to say he possesses more
or
Significant unlikable characters, which makes a worse heroic
protagonist
Than either previous films and established spider-man and it could have been met up
And carry on I was just asking
Before we go on I just want to ask a quick question because I I don't know how shad feels about this because that
I don't want to project any opinions onto you that you might not have
So I know that in the debate with nerd rodic and
World-class bullshoes. Yeah, they said something to the effect of spider-man never has to deal with
his personal life and
Being spider-man
Would that not count as being a part of that would you agree with that?
Argument that in homecoming. He never has to deal with that
No, of course. He absolutely needs to deal with his personal life in all domains. Okay, like yeah, absolutely
Yeah, I just want to yeah, yeah, that's that's not the end. That's not what i'm arguing
I'm saying that these negative character traits that he has in homecoming
Make far more potential for him being perceived as unlikable
Then better versions that have been made and my and then if you do want to add a subjective view on it
I found him far more unlikable and even stupid in a lot of instances in this movie
That did not impress me as a protagonist or hero in the overall movie at all
Well, i'll take you up on that if you want
I was thinking is um
Because because it's it's sort of explained as a rule
Well, I find that there are too many exceptions to that rule for me to consider it a rule
I can just think of so many protagonists who don't have who have negative traits
But work like too many to the point that I don't specifically selfishness. Sorry. Sorry
So even those characters though, even those characters that you're thinking of would you agree that if they were given more negative traits that didn't serve
a
Purpose in the plot or even the appeal or anything like that that there would reach a point in which these negative traits make that character
I mean spider-man's does serve a purpose in the plot. It's part of the plot
So I don't think that that works. Yeah. Well, I mean his stupidity is quite needed to make the plot move
No, I mean like the I mean, I mean what you call selfishness
It's like that feels like a logical progression for him, but it's part of the plot
but I guess the plot if the plot is him needing to go to um
France or whatever it goes to
That can absolutely be done without the selfishness where he answers, you know, nickfury is calling for he says we've got an issue
It's just different. No whatever. Yeah, so so your point that you know, it services the plot and therefore is necessary
I disagree with no you you you it's just because you said um, that doesn't serve sometimes and I said sometimes sometimes
Things can service the plot
But I guess my point is if they are in lieu of something better
That's a weakness in the role. Well, I guess I could just I could keep going through lists
Rick has rick from rick and morty has a lot of bad traits more so than good traits
Um courage the cowardly dog. He's a coward, but he's the protagonist of that show
And I hated that character too by the way for the anyway
Dexter's lab dextre is very neurotic and self and you know harsh and stuff like that. Johnny bravo is
Okay. Okay. So so
Yeah, we could go through these
You're right. You're right. We could go through them, but then we can try and
List off and explain the reasons why is this character? Oh
Yeah, there are reasons why it works
What you need to argue then is why does
His selfishness work in homecoming? Why does well here's here's the thing, right?
Like I feel like some of the positive traits some of them are obvious
Some of them are a perspective though. Someone could look at captain marvel and go well
She has principle she has ideals that she has and I could be like she seems headstrong
They're both two interpretations of a character who has principles and acts on them
Headstrong, I think you could argue against their principles quite effectively. Yeah, but but what I mean
You're not going to hear any arguments in the
Exactly
This is what I mean. You're not going to hear any arguments for that
But yeah, that's what I mean as well. It's like oh character's principle. That's good
It's like yeah, but what if their principles are shit?
You know what I mean like some of the positive traits
Like imagine one where it's like oh you're compassionate and someone says he seems docile
Or um unwilling to stand up for himself and someone says yeah
But that's good
You don't want to tread on people speak like what people find likable does vary
It depends on what people's interpretation is of the traits and how they're presented
And the execution of it and that's my my issue with homecoming is the execution of the selfishness the cowardice
Well, I don't stupidity like like those are three fairly big character flaws that well
I mean really run against an effective a good hero protagonist
Well, my thing would be um concern for yourself does not necessarily mean yourself
It's like if you if you um
If you went back out to your car when it was at the shopping center
And the guy who parked next you just swung the door open and slammed it into your car
And you're like dude, fuck you you're paying for that and he goes
Oh, but dude i'm gonna be down money if you do that
And then you're like, oh well, you know, i'm down but it's okay because i'm gonna let him get away with it
It's like nobody would say that you're selfish if somebody dinged your car and you were like, dude, you're paying me for that
You know what? I mean? It's like self-preservation
But you're bringing up a point of reference to determine selfishness and yeah, that's absolutely right
Yeah
To determine how selfish a character is is to compare it against someone you would find to be
Unselfish and that's how you get the comparison and the comparison we have in this instance with this peter parker
Is a previous peter parker on the previous film?
When you make that comparison he is a far more selfish cowardly character in this movie quite considerably
Compared to other you know, I guess my thing is um, it depends on so let's compare
That uh superman to deadpool
Deadpool is far more compelling than superman
Superman is noble. He's courageous. He's caring. He's compassionate. He's smart
He uh, he's got he's he's got all the good traits all the good traits that you would want, but that's boring as fuck
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, wait, wait superman can be very compelling
But you need to write it in the story that caters to the specific structure
Again, the point of this is that it also very much depends on what the story is meant to be by by the very fact that this
Is a spider-man movie
No, exactly
And we talked about in this last stream by the very fact that it is a spider-man movie creates an expectation a point of comparison
That we will be judging it by and one of the ultimate conclusions are is that this character?
Is more cowardly more more selfish. Um
And you know that there was another kind of key one then. Oh, yeah stupid his stupid decisions as well. Um,
Quite considerably and they're not counterbalanced effectively enough by positive traits
Does it need to be counterbalanced by positive traits? Can somebody absolutely like like your example with texas laboratory even house and things like that
If they didn't have anything appealing to counterbalance these negative, you know character traits, we would hate them
Okay, but they are appealing in some measure because of the counterbalance. Thank goodness
Frankly, I would find him unappealing if he was just a complete mary sue like that
Oh, he's 15, but he completely has himself entirely figured out and he completely
Just throws his entire personal life completely out the window to save people all the time. That seems like a mary sue character
I think you're swinging the pendulum too far in the opposite direction
And it's a slight straw man because i'm not saying make him a mary sue
But i'm saying that these negative character traits make him a less appealing less effective
Uh hero overall. Okay, and the thing is and and if you want to say the uh, the more established noble
self-sacrificing character of peter parker is a mary sue
I would disagree with that because it's counterbalanced by the fact that he does still fail and he does still struggles and stuff like that
but in terms of his moral character, he is
Pretty darn solid. He is one of the more aspirational noble heroes in all of comics
So what about the rainy films where he quits?
Well a good example, okay, because that is of course a very significant kind of
He has to go through a lot to get there first and foremost and the whole point of him quitting
re-establishes his initial
First motivation which is if he has the power to help is going to help and this scene that does that is the fire scene
He doesn't even have his powers yet
Someone's life is at risk and he is going to run into every risk his life
Really? So because he can't rely on his powers now to save even one life if possible, which just reaffirms this
essential most important character element of what peter parker spider-man is and then after that scene is
You know on the stretch or whatever and they say that there was someone on the top floor that died
And that hits him hard because he knew if he did have his powers if he didn't abandon his powers
he would have been able to save that person who died and so
The this is a great example of even an instance where what looks to be a betrayal of this character reinforces it so much more
Nothing like that is reinforcing far from home in any sense
Not even in the third act where he takes on the entire army and beats mysterious himself
Let me think about it. No one near to the point of spider-man 2 first and foremost
um
I mean if it's okay. Sorry because it's not to the point of spider-man
All right
the thing why far from home doesn't work is that the cause the thing that pushed him to that point is nowhere near as
It's hot like you can understand why peter parker does this in in spider-man 2 he's going through hell
His life is pretty darn rough and that's it's it's justified so much more where this
Doesn't he just feels like he's being he's I want to go on a holiday. Oh, yeah, really? Oh
Five years of his life passed by and his father figure died. It's like come on. Oh, man
Was so after the film
Was it? Oh, I have being agile. I really admit that
um
When I was watching it felt like he wanted to go on a holiday and that
Shad does it matter to you that when the water monster attacked even without his suit he began trying to protect people
I'm glad he did
No, no, no, this let me out the fact that he was even avoiding it to that point
Okay is an issue like that
That doesn't redeem, but you just said that spider-man too
It's fine that he avoided it because he came through in the end
no, no because what justified him to make that to get him there to where he makes the decision to not be spider-man where I
Don't see anything pushing him to that point too. Especially where it confronts his core character identity to make him
Betray that and say i'm gonna go on a holiday instead of you know
Help people out when their lives are at risk because you know nick fury's but in spider-man 2 it's not even a holiday
It's literally just well spider-man powers are not really working because i'm not really sure if I am spider-man. I'll just let it go
I need a we'd really watch it because it's been I love spider-man too
But he literally gets like a mental block and loses his physical powers. It doesn't make any sense
No, but like it's explained because his life is going down the toilet as a result and is really struggling with it
So much so that even like it seems like his subconscious is trying to betray him before he's willing to do it himself
Like do you remember when he doesn't help the guys in the alleyway? The guy who's getting mugged. He just ignores it. He keeps moving
Oh, yeah, good point. Yeah, see like I said, it's been way too long since i've seen it
But this is the thing I like in these things for me
It's actually fine because it's in line with like a strong journey just like home coming to far from home
But it seems that you have a problem with there's like a line that's being crossed in that scene and in
uh, yeah, that's not only okay, so my problem isn't that it's crossed I feel that it's not justified or
Um set up properly not even nearly well enough
I
Don't know I guess I disagree he's really young he's just died his father figures just died the willed wants him to take over
The will protected he just wants to pursue a crush back to work pussy. No, no, but see he doesn't say that like
What do you mean?
So i'm just trying to remember far from home because
He wants to be the in in this film specifically he wants to be the local spider-man and he doesn't feel ready to you know
Do the the larger fights and everything and so all right logically justified I can agree with it. Okay
I'm not fully on board with the fact that it's best that it's in line with his character in the other films
Um, but if you would just look at this film, is it justified? Okay, I think I can go with that
does it still come across negatively and also as
Um unlikable in the sense that these are negative character traits that
Make for a far less appealing character. That's still an issue. I have definitely
I don't think he was unlikable at all
He was very relatable
He was so he's related but this is what so over on the e-fat crew
We're stuck me wolf and fring you're all like well, isn't that down to each individual person whether or not you like him
We can't really do anything with this
Yeah, I know I mean I do like to try and argue that there are certain
objective character traits that you could say that are more negative and make for a worse character
And that you need to balance them against or execute them correctly to be able to have a good character with these traits
See the balance thing is I just
I I find that there are too many examples of characters with more negative traits than positive traits who are great
Yeah, but yeah, yeah, I don't care about the other characters
I care about this one in this instance like you would need to explain
You're saying these this character's negative attribute traits are
The thing is is the framework that's been established is so likability is determined by positive and negative character traits and
that better characters are
More noble more courageous more selfless as just a rule and it's a rule neither and prescribed to
No, no, no, no. I'm certainly saying a better spider-man is defined by the nobility aspect and stuff
That's i'm definitely saying but not to all characters everywhere. Absolutely
Uh, but you you said the hero archetype. So it seems like
No, no, no, they're of course subsets the hero archetype and spider-man is
Fulfilling a very specific lines. I guess it depends are we defining hero as protagonist or hero as something separate to protagonist?
No, no, i'm defining spider-man like
so defining spider-man how he is more generally defined in all his works and stuff and
How much of a solid good character that is?
The fact that if i'm using that as a point of reference this one falls very short of it
There's nowhere near as good
The thing is I see that more as a valid argument for um
The validity like for the the strength of the adaptation
rather than a rule that you can apply to the quality of the character necessarily because
it's just
Like I think you can if you were to break down this character is good for x y z
And this character doesn't have x y z but it's fulfilling the exact same purpose and role in the story
It's pretty easy to define but then has other attributes like a b and c
What are the other attributes?
Well, I mean, what would you say are the the attributes that spike because you said okay be selfish
It's like, okay, that's an attribute. That's another attribute that gets added to it
Yeah, no, that's fine that's all good. Um
It's just yeah the better or worse I guess is the problem for me is that like likability
There's so many elements like even the actor. I mean
Yeah, and a lot of people like characters that I think
All right, nada likability was uh, my you know, you could say a personal reaction to these negative character shades
Um, i'm not trying to say likability to determine if he i'm just saying he's a work
The the character itself is worse. He is an inferior character
For what the character is supposed to fulfill in the context of the story and plot and represent. Okay. Um, uh, that's
if
Yeah, like his character I didn't like peter pakka's character for x y
What?
What I mean is if the director said, okay
So my goal with this spider-man is to make him a much more relatable and sympathetic character in the sense that he
Has very similar wants and needs to everybody else. He's still a hero. He still wants to help people. He's still
Aspirational, but he is more grounded in the sense that he is he has human wants and needs
So that means that this spider-man would be achieving that objective. So would he?
Wait, wait, wait, like the attempt I would say okay interesting all power to you
I would want to I would need to see the result to determine if you were successful at that and if this is a more
Uh a better character
As a result of this attempt and my conclusion is after having watched it is no
No, like in your attempts to make him more like, you know a regular person everything like that
You made him more selfish made him more cowardly and yes, which makes him more like a normal person
Hence why it's good
I'm saying hence why it's based on that framework. I don't want to agree with either of you because it's so subjective
I don't really I don't I don't like the idea of well the director said this is what they wanted to do
so like
So, do you guys agree or disagree that he is more selfish more cowardly and more stupid in this movie
I don't think it's stupid
He made some pretty big stupid decisions
He made some mistakes, but that doesn't mean he's stupid. It may mean that he's a bit foolish
Foolish doesn't mean stupid though. I was in naive
In general there's naive
inexperienced naive, yeah
Stupid would be like if he um, if he met Mysterio on on day one he's like
You seem pretty cool. Here's the glasses. See you later. You know what?
Like stupid so stupid disagree with the stupid one. Sorry what I think I think he is a
Naive. I don't think he's selfish. I think that he is
nervous a bit scared of the response of uh the burden
um
as opposed to selfish
Like I don't know everything it's yeah, go ahead. He's so he I mean like sure I would say he's just a little bit selfish
But that's you know
that's really not an
Uncharacteristic thing of him to do just not a little
Yep, okay. Uh, sorry wolf you also said something but I think you're cut off
I said stupid would be anything coming out of a no bullshit video
That's mean wolf
He's such a nice man. Why would you say that?
You know nice people can be idiots
Yeah, shad's willing to say that this this fictional character is stupid but not a real person. Wow shed where are your standards at?
I'm a horrible person clearly
Okay, so yeah like uh his actions came across as very stupid is this objective look of course
I think yes
But I feel I could try and argue the points that I feel to be stupid
I'm, not sure i'd be able to convince you but they're enough for me to when I feel i'm looking at it objectively to say
Wow, these things were dumb and I don't think this character was
Would make such stupid mistakes like this based on his intelligence already, you know established and stuff
And as a result, of course, I find it as a like as a worst character because of that
Especially that so much of the problems that is trying to fight against is solving problems. He himself has caused
That's always been a pet peeve. I also find it
Yeah, just incompetent hero and stuff and in all honesty like the spider-man in the mcu is shaping up to be fairly incompetent
Like we even saw some, you know instances in the previous film that also portrayed that and so that's not a good
Sorry a better hero in and of itself
um
And then yeah, the selfishness
Oh, um, have you watched one punch man?
Have you watched one punch? I do. I do want to watch it. So in the show there
Sorry in the show there are there's rankings for characters
So s tier is like at the best of the best in terms of their ability c tier is like normal guys
um, so there is this this character called mumen rider who is by far like the most aspirational, um
Of the heroes because he has no powers
He rides around on a bike
And he goes into fights and he doesn't care if he knows he's going to lose which he knows he will because he's not powerful
At all. He's still going to do it anyway because he has to like he you know, he he has all those traits
He's a great character. Um, he is incompetent though, because he cannot beat any of these
people that he fights
That doesn't mean he's bad. It actually enhances him because he's incompetent, but he tries anyway
Like he'll never give up. Yeah, I don't discount that but the general rule is
incompetent characters don't make good protagonists
Uh
Make good hero protagonists in this type of story
I I don't know if I agree with that. What do you mean by this type of story?
Why okay a superhero story where they're trying to fix?
Um, most of the things they're fighting against are problems that they themselves are caused
So
If a hero is if the purpose of a hero is to achieve more good in the world then then bad
But they're just kind of reaching a net
Neutral because all the good they're achieving is fixing spider-man isn't that good in the mcu?
He uh, he said yeah, but but what i'm saying a lot there's been enough issues that he's had to fix based on his own
Yeah, but what about uh, what about 20 stock?
What about the oh, yeah ultra? Yeah ultra. I like it again like
Even if you existed in the world and you're a character in this world and
People really understood that ultra and was directly created by tony stark
I think the honest reaction to that would be far more negative and uh,
Was also created by the avengers too
Um
So
This is all just justification for the zakovia accords, okay, so um
Right, but what I mean is the avengers are still like
They're still characters that are worth looking up to even though they make mistakes even costly mistakes. But so you feel that
Giving a character incompetence is not going to be a negative even if it's not balanced out or justified. Um
Well, what do you mean balanced out or justified? What like that?
Trust me like if I could make a horrible character by giving him
Incompetence negative characters and everything like that don't redeem it and it would be
Humble to read detestable. Sorry, I'd enjoy it. And so
Clearly there are standards that make characters better or worse. So you don't
The tv show bojack horseman. I have not seen that note. Um, sorry in that show
He's the main character he
It's pretty definitively established that he is a net negative
In the sense that he has way more negative traits than positive traits and he consistently doesn't improve he consistently doesn't
like change
Or fix himself
But he's a great character despite the fact that he doesn't really improve because it's
Well, I mean it's contextual. I don't know if he's a if he's got all these negative character traits
I might disagree with you. You're not you're not yeah, but the thing is you're not you're not really meant to like him
like you're meant to
He's compelling to watch but it doesn't mean that he is a person that you're meant to like
necessarily
Sorry, yeah, i'm here with you um boys about from school we have been streaming for a long time
Oh, yeah, we have. Um, i'm not sure i'll be able to hang around for too much longer fellas
That is okay. I got I got babies in the background
Um, or a baby wolf. Do you want it sounded like you were going to bring up something as well if you wanted to
Hey, yeah, it's still in my mind. I don't remember what I was going to say now. Oh, sorry. Oh, sorry. Um
So, so I guess would you say do you feel that the spider-man in far from home is not worse?
um as a
Inspirational hero figure, you know, generally what we expect spider-man to be based on my the works of spider-man
My 100 honest take is when he was preparing his plan to try and ask out mj when he was like
Constantly feeling stressed under the fact that you can see ironman in different places
But he's gone and people are testing him and stuff for
What he's gonna be and who he's gonna become and all this stuff and then you go through the movie and he's
pressured in all these scenes like with fury being like
He chose you peter. It's like was he wrong? I couldn't help but feel so like oh man
What this is horrible like what a poor kid
Definitely go through this shit
Like and then you just remind yourself of how old he actually is and I was just like yeah, man
I don't know far from home. It was uh subjectively speaking. I I connected quite significantly to him
I thought he was a he was trying his damnedest and he just wanted to have a normal life
Okay, and it's interesting because that
Establishes a point of reference you're judging it by which validates that opinion in my mind and I think it you could even call it objective
Um, I don't think it it invalidates the point of reference that i'm also looking at this because i'm looking at from a different perspective
And a different standard to judge it by and according to that standard
There are very specific things in which it did not measure. Oh, I think it's reasonable that you dislike him
I think I think that's perfectly reasonable
I just um to say that he's
unlikable also, but I was just like you do me just for you, right because I guess I wouldn't even say he's likable for
Even then I would say he certainly has far more unlikable character traits in this iteration than
Many other iterations i've seen before which certainly makes me
dislike this version
or
Pretty highly a lot like like the far from homes. It's peter parker. Sorry about the background noise guys
The far from home peter parker might be one of the more disliked
You know representations of spider-man i've seen
Okay
maybe
Um, but for specific reasons, yeah
All right, then, uh, any other sort of elements to far from home that anyone would like to discuss
I don't know. I i'm happy that we're able to I was at least able to establish some of the uh,
Plot holes with the oh sure. I think far from home is weaker than homecoming for its
Consistency wise
I'm not sure which one I prefer yet though. Personally. I really like both of them
All right, i'll i'll count that as a success
I mean some of the things you brought up were already things that I was I was going to be bringing up if you didn't like
the uh
should tony have given him the glasses and
uh
Just the more the specific details of how mysterious fits into the world and what his plan exactly was
Like I think there's a lot to discuss. I don't necessarily think it's broken or anything. I just think it's uh
There's a lot of elements to it that are interesting to discuss. Um, and then yeah, it's absolutely a uh
something to sort of look back on his journey from civil war to homecoming to infinity war to
the tiny amount of endgame to
Far from home. Is he going on a consistent journey or are they just using him where they want when they want to do whatever they want?
It's been a very engaging conversation fellas. I've
Thoroughly enjoyed it. Oh, absolutely. It's been great. It's been fabulous
Would you like to if you get a heavy heading off?
Would you like to to give you a channel good old plug once again before you go?
Oh, I don't I expect people who you know
Like most people probably already see me on efap or I heard me plug
But yeah shadow versity if you're interested in stuff, that's actually quite quite different to what we get to talk about
I need that but uh someone like it, you know swords
And i'm sure you'll return someday too. I'd like to have you back on i'm sure I will indeed
And I gotta get my car repaired at some point this week
That's going to take a while so I might actually be able to finish your book during the time that i'm waiting
So i'm looking forward to it. Come away
Yeah, i'll shoot you unless you hate it then I can wait if you don't like it
Just don't mention it
I have
I will say I have
Majorly positive opinions at this point. It's a very vulnerable thing. All right, like yeah
Oh, I I absolutely understand
Thanks, man. Appreciate it. I'm sure i'll be i'll be able to handle it much better as time goes on and
And the fact that there has been such an overwhelmingly positive response to it like 95 percent of people really like the book
90 to 95 percent of reviews are pretty non-positive. So that's phenomenal. You might even say it's likable objectively
Oh
Exactly. If you want to go off the percentages of uh, you know people's reactions to my book
I think you could say objectively. It's a good book based on the response
Perhaps but then someone could argue that perhaps that could be argued against
We're gonna get into all of the
People dislike isn't it an even split at the moment or it's actually slowly
it's
It's been majority disliked for quite a few months. Thank okay
Well, then then it's what I said was not an argument in support of last judo. So
Maybe maybe not
All right guys, I'll love him leave yeah, thanks. It's been lots of fun. Yeah. See you man. Thanks going on
See ya
Right then what am I dealing with out of u3? What's your plans because depending on what you say
Okay, I'm probably gonna leave. Mm-hmm fringy at all. I don't like it. I probably need to
It's been gone for a long time
Yes, it has
People so many people want us to cover that second high top video and I feel bad because I can't I can't cover it
On my own that would just be terrible
Maybe if high top just stop making shit videos. Oh, you can't say that
Naughty I can wait. So can I get high top please? I I want to tell you something high top
If you if you just consider deleting your channel
Then this whole problem
Will go right away
Can can I squeeze as much out of you guys as possible?
I'll just uh, we'll get as far as we can before you just have to leave how about that?
I mean you say squeeze as much out of me as possible. I said it and i'm standing bias. I
I myself probably would have to stop actually
But it's it's been uh very thrilling
Well, i'm already seeing the video by the way for prosperity prosperity it's uh, it's bad
Okay
Let's we'll try and get it covered and then i'll jump straight into superchats. It makes a lot of sense. Um,
I shall say that I really have to go so both of you are going
Yeah, I won't unless another stream goes on for 46 and 47 next week
I'm probably not going no
Well, maybe I don't know i'm probably not going to be around for the next episode of efap
Guess how you gotta work every day this week. It's just gonna be real fun
I know what that's like, man
It's like oh, who am I get to work 11 days in a row?
for the 7th time this year
Do they see eating cuts or something
Oh, no, we just have incompetent co-workers that I need to cover for
I find myself constantly on the verge of screaming at like 90 of the people I work with because they're also fucking stupid
They can't do their jobs
Oh, it's not that difficult you have to do well just press buttons a lot of chat asking for jay jay's asleep i'm afraid but um
Well jay was in the chat a little while ago, so I think they assumed that he's he's yellow on discord
I'll ping him but uh great. I don't think he's here
I'm, sorry. Do you like that wolf that people consider jay like your replacement?
I feel insulted
Oh
I'm working on a video that I said was going to be short
And by short it actually turns out it's going to be like an hour long
And then there's going to be the metro video which is going to be like three hours long
So now I get to take the role of the longman and that's my god
I'm looking forward to that. I can't decide whether or not I like that one
I feel like people are going to like photoshop a picture of a wolf and make their torso just really really long
Well now that you've said that it's it's there's a good chance
I think bayo is okay. This bayouin if you make a really really long wolf like imagine a cat dog wolf
But without a cat and a dog wolf as like imagine that
Actually, no, no, it can be a cat dog wolf only it's me on one end and mauler on the we have to share
That is true bayouin bayouin bayouin listen to me
Listen
This needs to happen
And then I and then I can change my profile picture to
The me half and mauler can change it to the other half and then when we get in discord calls
It'll show us connected and it'll be really cute. Well terrifying the way
Mostly terrifying, but yeah
listen
And if it works out really fine, you know, then we can even have
Like mauler on one end me on the other end and like six other people between us. So everyone is part of the long
wolfman
Let's see, we could have been talking about the video this whole time, but no we have to talk about the long wolfman
Exactly the long wolfman. This is going to be a thing
No, you can't do it for the next d-fap bayouin because i'm not gonna be there
Oh i'm saving all memes for the for the anniversary one now, I think oh in that case
It's okay. If you do have enough d-fap since it's not going to happen. Anyway
Okay, people we're bye. Yes
Do you want to say anything?
Ah, yes
Talk about channels if you wish to plug away. I I have the worst
Objectively, i'm the worst, uh member of efap. I'll probably quit eventually. It's okay. So don't spread to my channel
It's pretty much worthless. I'll probably delete it by the end of the year. It's uh, not really worth your time
Thanks for not stressing the shit out of our audience wolf
Oh, that's okay. That's just been something i've been thinking about anyway. We're gonna start posting spilled milk. What's gonna be?
Well, like can it be like chunky milk so they can like photoshop my face under the chunks and
Spilled wolf milk. Is this like your equivalent of drug? You're just tired
I'm high. Oh same div
I i've been this way for a while
Oh
All right, do you think it wasn't talking for most of it
Every part of it I was playing metro like an autist but you know
There's nothing wrong with that as far as i'm concerned
Bailin listen
The long wolfman. I feel like built a long line departure because he keeps rambling
Wait, look frugal
Maybe I would give you more airtime if you would just make a video
Yeah, i'll yeah
Yeah, we'll see
Yeah, you make videos so then I have an excuse to leave youtube earlier
All right, what am I like the
The replacement even though yes, okay
Jay is not a worthy replacement
But frogled is but frogled needs to actually start making videos so that I can quit youtube
Frogled don't make videos
Yeah, I was about to say well then wolf now you've made a sweet world big videos
Hey, it's okay
I'm sure that there will be people in the comments that i'll be like
Dude wolf needs to leave. He's the worst part of well, I see those in every comment section anyway, so
Yeah
Frog will just do it. Just do it
Just do yeah. Sure. I'll think about it
What if we had like a three-way longman with like me like like it could be like a ninja star
But it would be like me mauler and rags
Aren't uh, you could be like
Okay, okay, so it's me mauler rags and free
Uh-huh cited long like we're all twisting together like a pretzel
All
Again not disturbing at all. It just it's just totally natural. What if this was like the cover of a tool album?
I was just saying
Maynard hit me up. I got some ideas. It's it's trippy
Almost as trippy as 10 000 days
I should yeah. No, I I yeah
So
Bringy does cosmoronic
Subricate to it. That's the word everyone uses. Yes, me and wolf have already been on it including rags
Your your newest you're going to be doing donald trump next, right?
Ah, yeah, I mean that's the next logical step then i'll get um, I don't know. Nigel Farage or something
And then you know boogie or something
You know boogie will probably do anything
I'll get god himself on the podcast who knows
Not bad, but uh, but yeah
No, it was uh, it was a really good chat
It was so thank you for coming for as long as you did and I hope you had fun
It was it was exhaustive at wonderful. Same time. Can I it was
Can I write to you? I hate boogie
Why can't you respond to the video with us instead of that
Because this is more important. Okay is like
Such a worthless waste of space
All he does
All he does is he eats and he eats and he expands
And when he expands he takes up more suits on the airplane and I don't want to sit next to that
I mean
He probably votes a whole bunch of times if you get him on your political team, dude
Remember that video where he was just pouring mountain dew into trash cans like a dick
Yeah
Wait, what and you look at yeah
He was going around an airport buying mountain dew and then he was cleaning them up and pouring the mountain dew into the trash can
So that the poor airport worker who had to get the trash can would get a soaking wet trash can
And it was every time he did it. I was like boogie
I swear to god if you do one more of your like hundred trillion videos where you you know
Use your mental illness to get sympathy points from your idiot audience. I swear I will
Burn you like a pig
All right
Look i'm just saying boogie you were never really a good you in the first place
But you know people actually understand that you were never a good youtuber in the first place
And maybe maybe if you stopped complaining about how little money you have as you buy a
$100,000 tesla car
People would respect you more but as of now that's not gonna happen
And oh i'm just saying, you know, maybe if you weren't so fat your beard wouldn't look so bad
Weirds we can all live by
Exactly fat people do not have good beards. I'm just saying can't you cannot name me one example?
Um, what about jobber he had like a bit of a neck scruff going on. I thought it was pretty good
Nah, he kept he he was pretty well shaven. He was a I I could see the shadow personally. I could see it
Really? I've got really good eyes
I got the blu-ray version
So you could really see it just like you can see the green screen around hon's head
Oh, yes santa clothes. That's an objectively fat man with a good beard
Hmm santa, okay. Okay. Is it real google center? What this is more than what I guess
Points of evidence for wolf quinton. Yeah, john
I'm gonna have to struggle with this name john maelstrom. No, I didn't have to struggle at all
You're a good man. You're a good man. David harbor. Who's that?
The guy who played the hellboy and he's in stranger things
Oh, he's not. Oh, yeah, he's a little chunk, but he ain't fat
well, and um
George r. R martin does not have a good beard. What are you talking about? No, he has a beard. Okay. Yeah, he does
No, he he has a beard. It's not it's not a good one though
Fat people can't grow good beards
John maelstrom you um, you do it now wolf
Hmm
I'm doing good
Dude, I yesterday I went tubing with a bunch of friends and we stopped at a gas station
And I I went in there right and I got like two bags of doritos because I like doritos when i'm high
and
I I went up to the cashier
I was already high at this point like really really really big and I go up there and I put the doritos bags down and
At like two and a half seconds in I just like lost my mind and I didn't know where I was
And I was just kind of like staring at the cigarette packs over the counter like not really knowing what to do
And then she was eventually like sir, and I was like what she's like, do you need a bag and I was like
No
And then I left
That was a very satisfying end to the story yeah, oh man that was riveting yeah, yeah
Yeah
Wow, that could all use so much funny on my head
I think they should have done that in Far From Home
Yeah
Wolf versus the world also don't send me to efap prison dude. That's kirby
This profile picture is
Like it looks like a clean shave and boogie
Kirby that's mean kirby's got a wonderful face
You're you're right kirby changes colors
There's a black kirby. It's very diverse
Yeah
Did he leave with or without the drink? I definitely came with the doritos what you think i'm gonna not eat them
It's like all purpose for the trip
Kids this is not representative of all
Your sirs
I don't know what that means wolf should always come high
You know when you say come what what context do you mean?
They're referring to kingdom come it's a part of the prayer. Yoshi is diverse
Yoshi is diverse. He's gay
What wolf talk she had to go to talk for seven
Apostrophe hours. It's wolf's turn
Oh
orange kirby
Tubing huh is that what they call these days? Yeah, I was on a tube on a river
And yeah, I get it one of my friends started doing shrooms
It was uh, it was it did not go well
You're my uh, yeah, I swam and I didn't drown that was fun
When I was younger my my brother like
overdosed a bit unsure
E.R is a wholesome boy. E.R is a
dirty nazi
Hi wolf eats more pizza get the munchies and we'll eventually keep you from leaving
Bail when you devious motherfucker. I'm legit concerned. I can't go to bed until I know he's okay. James
James
It's okay
It's okay
You don't think it be like it is but it do
He had tisms
I know he could have watched like the whole thing by now and he would have had fun with it because he'd have funny high responses
Don't think I feel like stoned wolf would give it like the way it is, you know wolf you bad man
Just click the link and then leave whenever you want. You know, you have to say goodbye
Just click it listen and then get angry and respond
What what link then watch together link?
There's two of them the latest one
Okay
Join us stone. What's this for a magical event? So this wolf are you ready for this? Oh my god, wolf funny pandas
This video is called wolf wolf. This video is called spider-man far from home
How do you
The panda bark did it scared the bigger one
How is that playing for you? It's not playing for me
Oh, okay. Anyway, look no
It's the video is called spider-man far from home broke my heart
Am I gonna cry yes
What's up, mr. Stark mr. Stark mr. Stark
It smells like a new car in here. Hey, mr. Stark, what should I do?
God, I'm impressed mr. Stark. So what if mr. Stark needs me or something or
I don't feel so good
It's 335 a.m
I just watched spider-man far from home. I feel sick. Is that dramatic?
Yeah, is it weird that a comic book movie made me feel kind of sick?
Yeah, very but hear me out for a second before you smash that dislike button. Is that a real face?
Yes, are you gonna say something mean?
Okay, look i'm looking at it. Like I would look at an anime face. He kind of looks like
I I don't know where I was going with that
Well, he's doing the look out the window and be bored and long for something bigger trope. Yes, and he's nailing. What is
Why do his cheeks look weird?
He's got like
He's got like the faded outline. Is it the window itself? The mirror looks a bit smooched dude, dude
You can see like all the dots where the hairs on his face would come in and he he would totally pull off a total chin
I hope so. Anybody who has the ability to do such a thing
elevates to a different degree. I once I once considered like
Just like shaving my chin just to see if I could do a total chin
and then I
Thought about it for three seconds and I was like that would be a bad idea
Dude, this guy's heart is broken. You're making fun of his chin. What the hell?
His cheeks. I mean look at his face. I don't think he has much of a heart to break. Oh, I need to get some help
some petty in the heart
And then imagine seeing something that makes you not like those two. Dude tom petty's makes you not want to sub
Who tom petty tom petty he's dead. It's really sad
Some help
Imagine living breathing and eating two things and then imagine seeing so that's a lot of things to like those two things
Makes you not want to care about those two things. Obviously, I fucking love spider-man and I fucking love movies
I've made it has to be a thousand at this point spider-man videos negative spider-man videos positive spider-man videos
I've given more than my two cents on spidey
My plan was and still is to finish the rainy series and cover this film and be done talking about the web head
I've said almost everything I have to say and to be honest web head
People do call him. Yeah
Yeah, that's what they used to call him. I mean they used to call him that in the cartoon, too
What if there was a strain that turns you into a web head?
What if the stream was called web head?
Wolf is being pure cancer. Rah
You always make edgelord fucking racist jokes so that you can get people to think that you're funny
When you're really just a fucking faggot
so
Oh god
I'm just saying
sometimes
We have conversations and those conversations usually include
rah's gay
It's okay. Rah says it out of love. I'm pretty sure pretty sure he's hoping you gay so he can you know, you know
Oh
Kick wolf fuck you I can kick you rah
Hold on. Here we go. No rah run away. Use her in timeout
There we go the abuse of power how much did you just put him into the thingy-fool, what did you just do?
300 seconds
Tired of it all all the hate so now that there's a fictional character that's supposed to bring people together
I don't need to give you the whole speech. You know, this is an opinion piece
I encourage you to go see the movie and make your own opinion piece
You could love something that I hate. I could love something that you hate. You know the drill art is subjective
Uh-oh
What what did he say can we rewind art is subjective
Make your own opinion piece. You could love something that I hate. I could love something that you hate
You know the drill art is subjective
Okay, um
Why are we still having this conversation it's a never-ending
Didn't we figure this out with the last jedi?
No game of thrones you would think would have done it right you to think well, here's the thing
Right. I thought the last jedi kind of established that if you like the movie you're you're dumb
And if you think art is objective, you're also kind of dumb
You
You've nailed it dude, they are the arguments got him
Who needs a fucking ass I can do is tell you how I feel and this
Is how I feel. All right, so he's not going to express any facts about the films then he's just going to talk about his feelings
Are you feeling something funny?
He said go after one knicker you go after the entire knicker station
And I was just thinking like what are you putting ass there and it was snicker?
Snickers
Snickers to yourself
When you don't have snickers
I'm sure that's what he was going for
Dude, I was like spider-man far from home takes everything that worked about endgame every heartbreaking moment and turns it into a joke within the first
two minutes of the film
uh, yeah, high school students made a
uh tribute
To the world's heroes. It's a tone setter for the film
You spelled lamoria wrong. I'm pretty sure that's how they do it in the film and i'm pretty sure it's in comic sense. Um, yep
Yeah, it's all over the case
It's funny. Um, I actually remember reading some threads on on just on reddit just seeing initial reactions far from i was curious
A lot of people were celebrating this and I remember reading one from a teacher saying that um, it was uncanny how similar
This was to something that he organized a bunch of students to try and make
It's like oh, yeah students are stupid. They really are
If you're like and I remember I like one you're like to by default a dummy
I'm pretty sure it's the picture of vision that's like all pixely or at least jpeg a bit
Like because it's like a zoom did bad picture
The other ones are like like the aspect ratio the resolution changes for each one
Like and then one of the images is has the getty images water
It literally does it's it's really great
It's like it's down to a t of those like high school morning announcements ones handled by high schoolers. It's perfect
Dude, I remember there was this thing. It wasn't in high school
It was in middle school where they were like trying to teach us like themes for shit
Like trying to teach us how to be good people and they showed us that scene
From return of the king where frodo throws golem down a really big hole
And to this day, I can't figure out what in the hell themes were trying to teach us
And I'm just like beware the vagina it'll swallow you whole
Do they think I like to imagine there was just like some dude who was like, oh come on
Rings maybe what people will see war the rings and I was like, okay
That just inspires me to watch it again. So thank you
The theme is there's a guy called france in the chat. I can't imagine tommy being a cop
I'd love a
Um
but yeah
This this is tonally in line with the movie
It's maybe not tonally in line with endgame because it's not end game totally
Tonally, yes about endgame every heartbreaking moment and turns it into a joke within the first two minutes of the film
I'm pretty sure they're actually sincere about it
It's like an actual attempt from the students to construct something like that
They even thank like the students that were involved with it or whatever
It's just yeah students aren't particularly well matched for a project like that and the film is definitely trying to set a lighter tone
I looked over to my friend while drone
There's a drone flying in the hallway
I will always love you with a plastic
You ever think that maybe that's the government keeping an eye on you all?
Oh
Bitch, you didn't think of that. Hmm
I can't think much of anything right now. I can tell
That's why we lived over to my friend while I will always love you was playing over goofy head shots of the dead avengers
The dead heroes while they were making a meme of the dead heroes and his jaw had dropped to the floor
I thought it was funny
And you know
What's what I found funny about that is they had actually played that song in one of our morning announcements when I was in high
School, so it was like it was perfect
Right off the bat
How am I supposed to be invested in this peter parker's grief if the film is so focused on making fun of that grief?
um
peter parker's not
Doing anything but taking it seriously
The school students are not taking it seriously the idea that the film doesn't take it seriously is an interesting claim
Yeah, I think when you have zombie iron man attacking peter. It's probably the film taking it pretty seriously
Yeah
But at the same time it's like it just kind of shows
A distinct lack of self-awareness that high school students usually have for like production stuff
And so it's not like the movie's like oh, it's funny that these people died
It's just kind of a goof on high school students and their creativity or lack thereof and that's developing
But yeah, all right
I guess I will allow you to stay in the chat
But you have to bow down and say that you love big brother big brother being me
Just imagine me with that big stalin mustache
I just said stalin had a rocking fashion sense. That was good as hitler. But you know making fun of that grief
I guess I should have expected this the same duo who wrote ant-man the wasp another fun light-hearted adventure
Wrote far from home and maybe that's my problem with it
Far from home is so focused on being fun on being light that it never explores its ideas or themes with any kind of weight
I
Don't think I agree
the uh
The plane sequence is quite heavy where he's just unloading the fact that he's just not good enough
And that his whole identity is surrounded by the idea that he's supposed to be this
thing that he doesn't think he can be and then happy gives him the
the boost
Um, I mean plane sequences have to be heavy, you know how much a plane weighs
I see and wolf just bringing in the facts to support. So yeah, I mean that's a little confident that
the uh, you know
I felt for the kid when he was like talking to mistero and in the fake bar and everything like that and how he was
You know having a struggle and how he was trying to convince fury to find somebody else for the job
it's like, you know
I felt for the poor kid because you like we were just talking about it earlier all the shit that had happened to him
And he's just trying to get a moment to like secure mj like in his life and then get back to it
It's like damn poor fucking kid
Either of you guys ever made a plan to um, ask a girl out multiple steps. Yeah
I have maybe not to the degree that he well, I mean maybe not to the degree he's going to but
I I wouldn't have because I I do not have the straight
Uh-huh
I thought you knew this. I thought I asked you that at one point
I mean you tried but you were so high that I was like, oh if you do this again while high i'll know it's true
Oh right during the april full stream
It's good that you deleted that stream
That was a stupid idea wasn't it? It's a terrifying idea. That was the worst idea. I think I might have ever had
Wait, once again, the lasting consequences for this version of peter parker are almost non-existent
um
I'm gonna name
I'm gonna name a lasting consequence from this film that will possibly tie in to future events in the mcu
His identity is revealed to the world and he's labeled public enemy number one
to me
Personally that seems like a significant consequence to me
Dude, and he was called out by the guy from whiplash. Who's really scared. Yeah, he was called out by the guy from whiplash. You're right
Exactly. You know how scary that dude was in that movie
Terrifying. I don't even want I don't even like understand music
Like temporarily scared me back into being straight for a second. I was like, okay
God that must have been horrifying
It was jesus. Do you know how great that movie is though? It's like really good almost non-existent
We shouldn't watch that again
We should she said the f-word dramatic potential of may knowing peter is spider-man
Watts and company could really dive deep into what it's like to be the mother of spider-man. Yeah, they could they didn't she kind of
Points it out a couple times. Yeah
Yeah, what are you referring to wolf?
Well, there's a that scene in the first movie right where
They're at the bar or whatever and they're seeing the spider-man on tv
She's like you don't go anywhere near that if you see anything like that and then she's
I can't remember much of far from home to be honest
I mean my assumption was that once she found out he was a super super she was like hey, man
Yeah, save people it's a good tism and if you were like, well, we don't get to know
She knows what i'm talking about
I like this guy
and um, um, they didn't explore much without me and uh
Hopefully we get more in the future. I guess but I don't see it as being a
Uh requirement versus an alternate thing to target
You know, I mean it's like we can develop they you know
They could have left mj at the same level as they did in the previous one and develops may it's like they chose
They chose what they chose and it's like uh to have to know may's position in all of this doesn't necessarily
I guess it just changes the story because you need her in a lot more um
Normal scenes and if she's there, it's just yeah
That's all. Yeah, right now reaction to her reaction to this film. Like I said, I barely remember far from home
Be perfectly honest here like thinking about it
Like I would probably never go out of my way to even watch
This movie again. I didn't really think much of far from home. I thought was boring
I could could probably have done something better with my night
Like oh dang play video games instead
Um some more uh
But yeah, she does say that uh, if you see that kind of danger
Hashtag shadow's right. What the hell oof oof kick me. I thought we were friends
Yes, apparently not
Broke my heart
Yeah, we she does say beforehand stay away from shit like that
But then obviously once she finds out peter's spider-man, she seems to be on board with it
So people would highlight that as a contradiction while I would be like, uh
It seems to me that she's changed her mind since she found out something pretty significant about little old petey boy
Yeah, and considering that he helped save the world and everything with the avengers
She realizes his potential and she's not quite as worried as he could any other regular kid or anything
I would I would cool with a scene for that though
Well, that would apologize for it. Don't get it. All I said was that shad was right
He kind of like shad I like shad too he's a cool man
Yeah, the mother of spider-man he might be a bit of a fat man, but you know, he's a little
Wolf's a mean man
Does she worry about him putting his life in danger every night?
Does she worry the same thing that happened to the love of her life will happen to peter?
No, she's 100 supportive of her superhero. Take a chat
Can we do that?
Let me do this anymore
Remember when it is she says to him when he's crying to her about losing the internship in the first film
She says I know you've been going out every night
Uh, just tell me the truth. What have you been what have you been doing?
The idea being she knows he's doing something that's potentially dangerous, but she hasn't actually
Stopped him or addressed it yet
Implying that she might be on board with a bit more dangerous activities
She said that she used to do that when she was younger, too. So
There's there's elements to work with there's elements to work with
Remember when half the universe got one thing Watson company
It's like uh, I forgot I actually have the power to pause too, but um
That's just you know
Peter underestimating aunt may's respect for his abilities and everything like that
That's not to say like peter just wrote the rules on aunt may
Stop writing for the movie what I referenced dialogue
Uh, yeah things are happening in the movie
All right, gotta be honest this scene where he was like swinging through the city taking selfies was like really cringe
That's like subjective bro
He's swinging around on the buildings he wouldn't take some pick
It was so stupid. It was almost maybe maybe not as egregious as when a hulk dabbed, but it was still really stupid
Jesus christ that you'd compare it to that. Wow
I I just said it wasn't as bad you compared you brought it up, dude. Oh
Oh, oh, come on chat. You agree. It was cringy
We've got we've got yeses and nos
Yeah
Why?
Self-evident. I don't need to make an argument. You're not allowed to take selfies in wolf movies
Look at the look at the my name the word of wolf. It's like the word of god only god's a wolf
Um, yeah, I don't know
I didn't actually because he was talking to mj while he was swinging around and she says like don't do that and he's like
And then you like don't text in swing, you know what that reminds me of that reminds me of
Don't drink and horse from a million ways to die in the west. It was just a stupid of a joke
I mean
I would actually recommend not texting a swing but don't drink and horse doesn't even like
Hand out because this the whole joke in that film is using modern language in the past and really stupid lines
But his isn't even necessarily a joke. It's an actual warning
You sir wrong you sir have the highness
He has the high dive deep into the post endgame world and how peter fits into that world
Did any of the people close to peter survive the snap?
Did any of the people close to peter have to deal with the grief of the snap the grief of losing peter?
Nope, every key player from homecoming conveniently got snapped and didn't suffer at all
um
Does it ever say that?
I'm pretty sure there's members of the decathlon that we don't see from the first one into the second one
Hold on. None of them are aged any differently
Which means that's what they covered
Yeah, they covered that they said everybody who got blipped
They call it the blip anybody who got blipped came back as the same age while the world moved ahead five years without them
Yeah, so they didn't change so they got blipped
You're dumb
well, his point is the uh
nobody of like significance to peter didn't
And thus nobody within his like circle of life people got to explain to him like the horrors of it, I guess
um
But again
If you're gonna complain that they're too happy with and fun with their tone
And then be like why aren't their scenes of characters explaining how horrible it was to live through those five years? I should be like, uh
I think you know
This is kind of the
Element that's really unfair to this film is being in the mcu at this point to have to deal with end games tisms
It's like you want to make your uh, your superhero movie with a with a protagonist that linds something
It's like yeah, we got to deal with all this other stuff
You're like, oh jeez, you know
End game should have just ended without any of the time travel should it just like everyone that died stayed dead?
Yes, just like
Would have been more impactful would have been better really good ending
I really know they just had to they should have snapped and it should have killed the other half that lived
She just ended with animals getting his head chopped off and it'd be like the credits just roll
It's like a pixar short
Oh, hey, remember when tony stark who was just uncle ben in these movies about that peter parker is a good kid with a good heart
He was raised by the two assessments gonna make a bunch of people really mad
Get ready for this. I told you already mauler
so that line that uncle ben says where he's like
um
Fucking what's that line?
With great power comes great responsibility
You know what that reminds me of?
The greatest teacher failure is like thank you movie for telling me the theme
I'm glad you're treating me like i'm an idiot. I mean I am right now, but you know
And now we waste a chat to react uncle uncle ben was a pseudo intellectual
He thought he was all smart. He's really just like he's basically like he's basically like sargon pretending
He's like good at what he does when he's really not
Just wait for god, is it good? It's a good thing ranks here. He'd scream
I mean forget the uh, the other line after yoda, uh, lightning's the books
Yeah, there you go that makes more sense
Okay
Look we need to list about how uncle bed's better. Okay didn't suffer at all
Oh, hey, remember when tony stark who was just uncle ben in these movies about that peter parker is a good kid with a good heart
He was raised by the two best people in the world
One of those people was named ben ben taught peter how to be a good kid with a good heart ben died because of peter's lack
Of responsibility spider-man was god. Don't show the amazing spider-man. Hey, they did it. That means the better
We need to see ben die again hell
No, is it unrealistic for peter to never directly mention the man taught him to be a hero the man who raised him
The man who was his father hell. Yes. How do you even know that that's the case in the mcu?
The problem isn't tony stark being a mentor the problem isn't tony stark
The problem is the implication that tony means more to peter parker than ben ever did what if he does?
What happens then
I don't know man
What if peter learned more from tony than he did from ben?
What happens then maybe tony?
Or maybe tony is just filling a place in his heart that ben can't fulfill
And he's not like liking one better than the other. He just needs someone, you know
Uncle ben's suitcases in this film and serves as the only reminder that ben existed and
It ends up getting destroyed at some point off screen and peter doesn't give a single shit
That doesn't pan out just because it's a briefcase that someone used. Well, hold on it. It was a sentimental briefcase
I don't know. I guess so
I don't remember
What a stupid thing
I don't want to keep this briefcase because i'm really attached to it
Man, I should like keep I should keep my doctor
Pepper bottle because i'm really attached to what was formerly inside it but it's now currently sitting in my digestive system
Uncle ben's in your digestive system
Um just Peter this suitcase meant a lot to me just kind of it was a subjective briefcase
Now it's yours, um
All right, yeah, he yeah peter parker doesn't give a single shit about losing something of his uncle's
Which makes me assume that ben was someone in this
As old things go, you know a lot of bad things happen at his trip
it's it's like maybe one thing if it was like a watch or a compass or some binoculars or
Picture or something with a briefcase really? Yeah, it's a bit of a stretch
But like look I got
When my cat died, I kept her
food bowl
because
I had her for 19 years
And I really missed her. So now I keep her food bowl
That's a little thing because like what the fuck is a cat home?
so it's like I got that that's something but
There's a probably a lot of things that uncle ben had that are
briefcase
People are posting briefcase milk
Was the milk in uncle ben's briefcase, I don't know
Really matter all that much to peter. Great
Cool
That makes perfect
So anyways, where was I? Oh, hey, it's not like the way you want it to be
damn
So okay, so he's complaining that um, oh gee, we i'm so glad that
Ben or i'm sorry. Uh, oh, well i'm wondering if i'm high now too
No sense crying over spoiled briefcase
But um
You know uncle ben, uh, he's complaining that he's
Like not being covered even though he was just saying that he's glad he's not being covered
I don't know. I guess he's glad we don't see how he dies. He wishes he was more of an influence on his life, but
Yeah, tony's definitely in that role for this film
Tony's the one that meant a lot and we got to see it. So it makes more sense that we would uh
Bank on that sort of relationship
Hey, remember when tony stark who is just uncle ben in these movies died died right in front of peter died in the arms of pepper
Rodian peter, how does that affect peter? He's grieving, but he wants to fall in love and go on vacation
Those things don't need to grieve forever
What
You see it's not it's not effective if he's not crying about it every other scene
Even though this is the same kind of guy that'd be like peter cries too much
He never cried in the ramy films
Thousand times that he cried in the ramy films and it was funny every time because toby mcguire looks like an idiot every time
So
if you're feeling blue
You might look to starting a relationship with somebody to try and alleviate said blueness
If you're feeling that your life has reached a sort of impasse slash
End of a phase you might try and move on yourself. You push yourself
Um the idea that these two things are in congress with each other
Spells out to me that this person might not have experienced something like that
Uh, but it's totally a thing that happens and he's dealing with both ends of that scale throughout the whole movie
awkwardly trying to get something going with mj while also dealing with the fact that his
Very important very influential father figure has passed
And uh, it's actually an element. I liked
And the thing is it's like some kids just like to distract themselves, too. That's another way of coping
Dude died in the arm. I I
Chat first of the cat I was just talking about she died two years ago
But I had another cat who died this year and it was really sad because he was only like two years old
And it was because my neighbor's dogs were stupid and got in our yard
Because they the martin neighbors are idiots and deserve death
so anyway when he died when that this cat died
I was like, you know what? I feel sad. I don't want to be in my house right now because I can't think
Straight without my cat being around
um, because he was just everywhere and so I
left my house and I drove like an hour north
and I ate pizza and I went to a bookstore and
I
Bought like a bunch of books that I probably won't read for the next six years because I have 400 books and 300 of them
I haven't even read yet. I did everything I could to
distract myself from the
Current pain I was feeling at that moment. So
The fact that peter is trying to do a thing that is not crying over it forever
Is completely realistic. I know that this guy has probably never understood or gone through loss in his entire
probably
12 years of life, but you know, he couldn't try
empathy as a thing
and see there you go a lot of
The point is people deal with grief differently, you know, not everybody has to do it. Why am I saying all this sad shit? What's
This is topical
It is topical. That's probably what brought it on was the video. Uh
Well people people might actually get
Frustrated hearing what he just said, you know, because it's like oh, is that right? Is that right? That sort of thing?
so
Probably didn't expect that he thought it was I imagine he thought it was pretty simple. It's like happy sad
You don't have them at the same time
like, uh
Well, not really that simple peter died in the arms of pepper. Rodian peter. How does that affect peter?
He's grieving but he wants to fall in love and go on vacation. Those things don't mix they don't i'm sorry
But it's not real to me. It doesn't work for me
I can't feel for peter's loss if the movie doesn't really feel for peter's loss
Any and all dramatic potential is thrown out the window for the sake of another fun spider-man adventure featuring a quirky cast of underdeveloped kids
And a villain whose motivation is based entirely around that i'm
Sad because this guy's putting forth a sad excuse of an argument
It's true
Well, you're doing better than me I got maula you're a hippo sorry hypo crit
Ten points to team moniger. Hey, he's high too
So
He's not qualified any of this he's just said it's true
Yeah, it's like they're underdeveloped but the thing of it is it's like
Do we really want to spend a whole movie developing like a whole bunch like his entire class when they're not like the entire focal point
I mean just a couple of them are but
All the standard questions come in it's like, okay
So how many of them were supposed to be developed and to what degree that satisfies you and it's just you know
Questions that you can't really add to definitively
Well, how do you have 300 unread books? I have a very horrible disease. It's called
Impulsive book buying disorder
where I go to the bookstore and I see a book that looks good and i'm like
I have two choices
I can either put that on my amazon wish list and save money or I can buy it right now
Because i'm too lazy to go on amazon put that on my wish list
And then I come home and I have to rearrange my bookshelf
And then I have 300 books that I have yet to read
Probably less than no. No, I have like 460 something on books and i've read like 160 of them
Yeah
I honestly wish I had the drive to read as much as you
Dude reading is like the thing that i've done like my whole life because I never really had friends growing up
And I was really depressed and shit
So I read books to ignore life and it was really great
And that's why I like to read and that's why I like to write too because that I could just ignore the world
It's really great it's actually really helpful same with video games and movies well actually not movies anymore movies are starting to
Movies are pretty badly. Yeah
New developed kids villain whose motivation is based entirely around tony stark, but this time it's in europe. Yay
Honestly guys the entire time I was watching I felt like this film was fighting with itself
About what it wanted to be does it want to be a teen summer vacation flick with spider-man?
Doesn't want to be a story about peter dealing with the death of a mentor
What those two things can't happen at the same time?
They just like
Mutually exclusive doesn't want to be a classic spider-man story about peter wanting to just be peter parker
But having the responsibility of being spider-man. Yeah, that's that happens in the film, too
Okay
So if I just take a film and I talk about three different things that happen in it and it'll be like
Does this film want to be one of these three things? I don't know stupid
Done. I don't pick one. You can't pick two. You can't have them all
It wants to be so many things that it never has time to develop any of those stories and ideas you mean
the iron man peter parker story comes full fruition
is
The the the high school sort of dating thing like with mj that comes full head like how these stories not
Completed, you know
Yeah, it kind of feels like there's only two two stories to worry about he's got his trip
And then he's got his spider-man life and that's and they're both kind of colliding in the same thing
It doesn't it doesn't seem like there's that and then there's like dealing with iron man on top of that
But that's more of a emotional state thing that applies to both of these journeys
Yeah, but it doesn't have to dedicate a whole plot line to it
Was wondering since you've read the wheel of time series who your favorite character was out of main characters
I have only read first three books and new spring new spring was kind of worthless because nothing really happened to it
And i'm about like a fourth of the way through book four
but my favorite characters are matt because he's funny and
Tom because he's cool
There we go, all right cool
Forget the fact that this is a bad spider-man movie god
I can't believe I started that mean I went in fully expecting it to be a different take on the character that i'm obviously
Not a fan of thus far. I figured this would be a sequel to homecoming and a sequel to this particular vision of spidey
But what I didn't expect what caught me completely off guard was how completely
Inconsistent with that vision far from home was
Before we go on I want to tell the chat the the funny story. I was telling you the other day
So chat the other day I I had this weird dream and mauler was having weird dreams too
He was having dreams about killing people and like hiding the body because he was guilty for it
Why would that be a weird dream?
Seems pretty normal to me. Yeah, that's something that seems pretty normal
So I had a weird dream and this dream
Is so crazy. So basically I dreamed that
No one actually hated spider-man homecoming
Everyone actually loved it and that this was all conspiracy
To make sure that mauling was good at arguing and then I woke up and I was like, no way
Spider-man really is a bad movie
Yes
That sucks
That was my dream I didn't kill people have you tried the first five Temeraire books wolf, hmm
You said you wanted a good dragon protagonist. Try the first
to mid
I don't know what that word is Temeraire. That's obviously a wound. That's probably some kind of species in lord of the rings
Temeraire
Series
Ooh
That's that looks
promising
His majesty's dragon is oh what it is by naomi novik. Oh, let's buy a woman. I don't care far from home
What peter parker in this film trusts mysterious with tony's final gift to him after having two conversations with bec
He not only gives mysterious something that should mean the world to him
He gives him a series of the glasses that have the power to literally control the world after knowing him for less than two days
and
I will agree that that did bug me a bit
Um, it actually used to bug me and then I thought about it for a long time and I was like, I don't know
It actually kind of makes sense. So you got he's grieving because he's lost the father figure the guy who died to save the world
He's also got the pressure of becoming that guy himself
It's also got the pressure of realizing that he's like he's not the right person to have that level of power
Accentuated by that bus scene and then along comes this guy who's extremely kind wise has lost
Almost everything and it's fueled entirely by protecting people as a result
This guy sacrifices himself to save
uh peter's planet but narrowly survives it unlike a certain other mentor he had
And then um just gives him real talk twice in the film
And it's like if peter's not supposed to have the glasses who should have them. It's like well, not nick fury
Uh for the reasons he gave I think he said something like you probably like go crazy and weaponize him and stuff like well this guy
This guy's willing to die to protect earth. He's got this like
wiseness to him and he's he's he's very
Pragmatic and kind it's like yeah, this guy probably knows what's best to do with these things certainly better than me
Like it it passes for me. Okay, and this is the part of them being naive. He was just like, yeah, i'm convinced and
Considering he's a an actor an illusionist. It would also follow that he could trick pizza
Yeah to a certain degree. I would agree with that
But then then came like from peters side like yeah with the world on his shoulders
I can see him making a bit of a rash decision like that
But then the problem I have comes from the fact that like mysterious
That was part of his plan to get the glasses from him
But at the same time mysterious at no point made any sort of suggestion
That he was trying to get those glasses from and he didn't say do you mind if I try them on
Interesting though
But if you remember peters lost them and someone provides him the glasses like oh you drop these
And he's like, oh are those are those the edith glasses as if he has no idea
But it's probably him that organized the glass is being given back to peter like that person worked for him
dude
dude
That's there. There is a comment in the chat that said
That who peter doesn't care about dead people. It's a character trait
What
It's part of his character is totally a line of the character about dead people. Yeah when people die he's like, okay
All right
Good observation, but yeah, I don't know he he he made quite the elaborate plan
um
And it just kind of didn't seem convincing enough to me
that um
He was trying to make the glasses, you know his own
I feel like maybe they um
Made him not ask so much to maybe make this the uh, the twist a little more impactful maybe but that would be
You know assuming something that i'm not entirely
In possession of enough info on so i'd like them to have had more time. I think would have been preferable. Uh,
Maybe involve some of some of that
But there's definitely a lot of reasoning for why peter would have done what he did
And um a lot of it was sort of I didn't even catch on my first run through I was just thinking about it
I was like, hmm
Why would he and you know, especially when they have those shots where he puts on the glasses and he just looks at him
And peter gets this sense of just like oh fuck
It's like bony. Yeah, I I guess I would have liked to see quinton maybe ask
For the glasses at least once and then make it seem like okay now he's definitely
Trying to get them rather than like oh
Perfect I psychologically knew this teenager enough that he I knew he would give me the glasses with enough slideshows
Yeah, I mean, uh
I think it would probably benefit from being over a longer period of time
I actually just want to bring you about how I
Would have maybe liked the idea of
Having mysterious be a good guy in this film and then he's revealed in the second and like there's a different villain for this film
He gets to know pizza, you know from this one to that one
Um
I don't know. I feel like they use wrong. I feel like they use the time
I'm not saying i'm not saying it'd be better. I'm just saying it'd be interesting as a sort of
Exploration, I mean i'm pretty biased right now because I really like uh hero mysterious. I quite liked him
Although he was a nice
I did like this fish tank helmet fishbowl. Now, is it just me or was his mouth like really long to what?
it
Quinton's mouth. It was like so long. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait
Wait halt
Halt I say when you say quinton
Do you mean quinton reviews, right? No, no, no, I mean just because the unibrow you're looking at mistaken for a mouth
I double checked no, uh quinton beck is the guy's name i'm stealing
hall
Yeah
But when he was yeah, yeah when he was in the movie his mouth was really horizontally long to me
I would hope it's not vertically long
We're entering into nightmare fuel at that point look i'm looking at pictures of his mouth
And it looks like a perfectly respectable
Perfectly respectable mouth knowing him for less than two days and 20 minutes of screen time
Peter parker in this film all the sun has a crush on mj after paying no attention to her and homecoming
I guess he came back from the dead witnessed the death of his idol and now he wants to get romantic with the girl
He barely knows. Okay, so it's been eight months since that and um, I don't know
Do you guys want to we can do this all day
Do you want to talk about what is required for a 16 year old boy to gain a crush?
Should we go over the extremely long list of things that have to be ticked?
Um boy, it doesn't really it really doesn't take much when you're in high school
No, no, no, it takes a long amount of getting to know them. It needs a stable job
Uh respectable friends
You know, they need a car they need to be the driving
Parents who are very responsible live in a nice place
Like these are all very important aspects when you're a 16 year old boy, you really need
Like to be very careful and selective you don't sort of you don't just develop a crush on somebody
That's not what dude when I was 16. I was worried about my 401k plan. I don't know about you
Probably because you don't have that because you live 802k ours is like yours, but double is better
I mean to be honest with you
I was a little bothered at the fact that they started the movie and they he had developed a crush on mj
Like off screen. It kind of felt like it was an obligation
It was like mj in particular
Looks like she doesn't shower
I was more concerned about
Getting a reason for why they would work together, which is what this movie seems to be
Why he has a crush on here. I don't really need much reasoning for that
Yeah, um
I guess it was just kind of the off-screen aspect that bugged me a bit
It's like oh
It would be kind of weird. It's like there was just some other girl like what about that gal that?
I'm really blanking on names. It's late. Um his fatty friend. Um
You called him a gal wait
What are you suggesting that you should date ned? Is that what you're suggesting?
No, no, no, no, no that gal that ned was with is like that would be really funny
If it's like if at the end of homecoming it's like oh, this is mj
She's a new student and then all of a sudden peter shows up in the next movie and says hey
I got a crush on that. Uh, I got a crush on that white girl, you know, I forget her name again. I'm sorry. Oh betty
Right, he just shows up one day as I got a crush on betty man, you gotta fucking get me in there. It's like
Wait, why why do you have a crush on betty all of a sudden? What did she do?
To get your interest like that her in particular, you know
You just so you just want a reason for a kid to have a crush on a girl
I maybe want her to maybe be introduced just a little more and why he's choosing her in particular
Yeah, I guess we could have had like i'm not sure how you'd fit this in I guess it needs to be in homecoming but just
A scene where he gives her a look of like, huh i'm kind of interested in this person. Would that be good enough?
I feel like maybe um during the trip he can develop the crush rather than have it immediately
Yeah, it could work
I don't know. See because I just I guess my position is like we're skipping to the part. That's more interesting
We're just trying to court here rather than
What made him think hey, she's cute
Yeah, I don't know um
It's it's it's certainly a time saver when you have her crush on her already
But I feel like it maybe would have been more natural if he had developed it along the trip
I think that's fair enough
And go on a vacation this is mary jane we are talking about or michelle jones either way
She is the love of peter parker's life. Okay, chill out
I mean we we don't even know that's what they're gonna do and even if they did do that
Why would the love of your life have to start?
In any way other than a crush that's simple as hey, I think she's cute like that. Why would you yeah?
Couldn't it just evolve from there?
The love of master chief's life is literally a hologram which is more than I don't hologram shame wolf
And I will never forgive this film for not caring enough to develop it sure well this film is developing it
Yes, it's all the scenes in this film with those two is
It's actually like pretty well well portrayed as far as I can tell if in terms of a
budding romance between two teen arenas
What did you think wolf did you believe the romance or did you hate it find it boring and vomit on the screen?
What
Take that as a the latter. Okay. I believe they had a decent level of chemistry. They were both a little awkward. Um
She was funny she's got my sense of humor, but that's because I have asperger's and that's stupid
Sure, it's cute. It's awkward zendaya and tom holland have some very nice chemistry
But that's all there is to it
It seems like a high school crush that came out of nowhere and I think it was a high school crush that came out of
No, I don't know. I don't I must be weird on this like I just yeah, I don't necessarily
Think that you need to have a high school crush be developed
So I feel like it doesn't need to be developed very strongly
It just I think we just need to kind of see
The spark the the the spark at first that got him interested in that person in particular
Doesn't have to be a very strong spark like he researched or anything like that
But uh, you know rather than just a look he researched love it for a second
Googled it. Yeah, he doesn't he doesn't need to google her or nothing
I feel like maybe just there just needs to be a spark
We need to see it and then we can get it going from there
There's a spark that falls on the oil spill that causes the explosion that kills
Wow
All for mj that got dark at some point I couldn't pinpoint it exactly
Homecoming mj obviously teased peter because she liked him
They could have turned that teasing and frenemy relationship into a real friendship
They could have taken their time over the course of a couple films and got me to want
Them to end up together, but far from home doesn't have the time for someone since she's as developed as a three-month-old miscarriage
Oh my
Yeah, again, I would argue that this film is developing their relationship
so I thought it would make their relationship more meaningful was seeing how they interact and
uh
What they like about each other and stuff like that but
Instead we start the film and peter has this big plan to win mj over they introduced this character named
I don't know what his name was and have this very unnecessary love triangle that has the emotional depth of an episode of hannah montana
Uh-oh copyright I post okay, um
Um after hearing that I think that made me sober and I want to go to bed. No, that's okay
You did well
Hi top
If you start off halfway if you start off every video with
That song
then
Trust me. I will never
Watch another one of your videos. Well, no, you did it once i'm never going to watch another one of your videos
Uh, if you just keep doing it then nobody will
Just probably the best possible thing you can do
I'll give you a treat in this way. This film broke his heart, dude
Wolf he was kind. He was smart. He was important. That's a quote from that
Race movie, isn't it about the black people that work as maids or something?
They're treated badly and one makes a shit cake or something
Shit cake I would have preferred something from a good movie personally, but I guess that's that's something
Yeah
All right. Yeah
Yeah
So i'm gonna go to bed now
Hi, it has been it has been a pleasure
Enjoying the tisms. Mm
I will not be on the come back with that
Hope you don't come back regretting anything you've said while you're hot
Well, this went marginally better than the april fool's stream
I i'm ashamed to have missed that any no i'm ashamed to have streamed that
So
Yeah
um
I will not be on the next defap. I am making a video that I
It's really not gonna be short unless you think an hour is short
Which if you're watching the show you probably do think an hour is short
And then i'm working on another three hours
And
I don't know what I was even thinking right there
I'm really tired
What happened with the april fool's stream?
I might have proposed to mauler and asked him to have sex with me multiple times. So, you know
Just nothing nothing serious
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, bye bye
Boy
He's a good kid you gotta do just fine gonna be
You gotta go places the hannah montana love triangle thing. I um, I don't know
I uh, not only did I like them two together and I liked uh,
The conversation I remember more specifically is the one where she's like
I was just looking at you because I thought you were spider-man and he's like gutted to hear it because he thought that
She actually liked him. Well, there was a chance of that and it was like, oh no
There's like a back and forth until it's rescued a bit more the other the seat swapping
In the plane. It's one of those like really unfortunate sort of
you're trying to get access to the person you're interested in and then it like backfires and
uh
You teachers adore and I don't know if I'd call it
Is it a love triangle when she was never interested in the guy whatsoever and he was just kind of like an ass
Yeah, I wouldn't really call it that it seems to me a love triangle is three parties all interested in me
I'd have to look it up. I can't remember actually, but yeah, I don't know
I thought I thought it was better than this is being portrayed as but perhaps
I need to give it a second look and really
Give a critical eye
Why did he have to put this track in here, I don't know man, why do you have to taint efap with this track?
Peter parker in this film has told to step up and be the next iron man. What in the world?
I think it's horrible and it's a travesty that you're defending it
Wait far from home
Hello, yeah, I have no idea
Okay, well, well, okay we're we're watching not concentration camp videos. Are you sure you want to join me?
Well, I I saw there was only two of you guys and I felt that's that's not because you did I there needs to be more people
You know
You know
So in the stream and so if you don't mind some background noise of the kids now and then I think I can join into the
Remainder we'll see well, there is a link to the we're watching. We're halfway through a video
breaking down far from home
Yeah, I've been trying to watch um, uh while you guys are still streaming and stuff just sorting out the kids and everything
and getting settled a bit and stuff and so
Well, I'll be watching some of it. See all things. I hope you don't mind me just crashing the party. Absolutely
Not it's a breath of not necessarily fresh but important air
Oh
I'm making pretty good progress on this. We are we are we are I think it's because there's two of us a crazy hybrid
Who's now god, but we got we got three now boys
Peter Parker in this film is told to step up and be the next iron man
And then he's told that he just needs to be the next spider-man
He just needs to be himself which is pretty much what he learned in homecoming
But then they blast acdc as peter is making his new high-tech suit looking just like tony stark did
If his arc is supposed to be be your own man, then stick with that. Don't tell us one thing and show us another
uh
So creating his own suit, um, but in the same vein as iron man was creating a suit back in the first film
I suppose you can take that that way. I would have taken it the way of he's
Inspired and taking a piece of iron man along with him while he you know is is going his own way
um
I I don't know. This is definitely a father-son
Aspect to it that I suppose many people would just find to be almost like
lame because it's like it's like peter having to borrow iron man's moment instead of being
a sort of um
Poetry at rhyme sort of moment
Yeah, and it's not really that much of a stretch to think that peter knows how to use this stuff. Anyway, I mean
He was mentored by stark. He's probably seen how he works and everything. So
Yeah, it's your bug bite
So what would you say the movie is trying to say in regards to this?
Like do you think it is one or the other that the movie is trying to establish him as the next iron man or?
To be his own spider-man
To me I feel like he
It establishes him as somebody who is actually ready to
You know take on the responsibilities at first. He was really struggling with it, but now he's like ready to go
He's making a play and he's getting the suit ready
And he's just kind of doing it in natural action. Not not thinking too much about um, you know
Oh i'm taking up the mantle of iron man. He's just thinking of the duty
He has to do in terms of saving his friends
And he'll do that by any means necessary
I see it as he's he's striking out. He doesn't have anyone hovering over him. He's making his own suit
He's gonna have in it. What do you think he needs and then he's gonna go do it himself?
Um, and happy is asking him what's the plan now?
He's being leaned upon and he's ready to act and the whole he'll call you to nick fury as well
Exactly
So you don't think there's a contradiction in
What they're saying and then what they're showing in
in this
Section the guy's bringing up
So would would that be that he's his own superhero and yet he's using an iron man related sort of
System with iron man's music in an iron man sort of stance and therefore he's not like are they are they showing him?
To be the next time and I I wouldn't say that they're setting him up to be the next time and based on
The ending the end credit scenes here that would kind of conflict a bit with
Trying to fill that role that iron man filled
um
So, yeah
Maybe I think yeah
I think his point here is ultimately contradicted by the ending of the film that he can't be the next iron man as a result
Yeah, and not to mention he doesn't even make like an iron man based suit. He makes it very
In the same vein as like the spidey suit that he grew up with
Yeah, he does
Assuming he has the choice to have iron he definitely chooses against it
Booster rockets and shit
No, well, uh, yeah, I don't think he had the option to choose the full iron spider get up in that scene
I I mean if he did we already kind of said that that was a bit dumb. He would have been more practical. Yeah
Yeah, like holy crap. Yeah having you know plated armor against these drones would be very useful
Yeah, but nope, he brought he got up a suit that he was familiar with when he was growing up in homecoming
So yeah, you got the taser web says he wants to be more like spider-man
Yeah, he's got to use taser webs in the middle of the hollow thing
Yeah, but I mean he's had the iron suit for a bit and he's obviously getting pretty familiar with it
I imagine that's a symbolic representation of shedding like
Shedding the identity of being iron man's ward slash
Mentored
If he had the option and he chose not to it's just dumb. Oh, no, I don't i'm not referring to that. Um, okay
I'm more referring to we see him in the well, I mean we only see him for a few seconds in the beginning
I guess it was a deleted scene. We would have seen him more
Um, but the idea that he's he's wearing that in the beginning and then by the end across his journey
He also happens to not be wearing the iron man spider suit anymore, which by the way, they said
Well, did I ever get to ask you about this chad? They said that um
Spider-man would never accept an iron spider suit of iron man
That's what he said in the epheb debate and people always reference civil war
Yes, he he did get an iron spider suit at one point
I can't remember exactly what happened with it
But I think just logically even just trying to be realistic
If peter parker wants to achieve the most good possible and is offered this great tool that will help him in it
Which will enable him to save even more lives because he accessed he has access to better tech
I think of course he could accept it
I you know
I think you'd have to go through some pretty convoluted loops to try and get the point where he would say no
and perhaps you could pull it off like I don't know if um,
uh similar reasons why
batman doesn't use guns, you know because he is emotionally scarred if you set something like that up where he just doesn't like
Taking a lot of nice something. Yeah, it's possible but
Yeah, again that i'm maintaining and I might be wrong about this
I don't even know for sure but i'm maintaining that he couldn't use the iron suit in the airplane
It's just a matter of if you look at the events of the film and you draw that
He was wearing the iron spider suit and then he goes on this journey and he also happens to not be wearing the iron man spider
Suit anymore. It's a representation of the journey. That's all it's not an actual mechanical one because he didn't uh
You how I'm assuming you would have picked the iron man suit
I think anybody would if they're fighting against bullets the damn well better have if it was available. Otherwise, you'll be making a video
Elegance, it just got even worse
But anyway, I can't be invested in something that the writers don't seem sure of
The truth is I can't be invested in any of this. I had hopes for Mysterio
I love myself some Jake but Mysterio's motivation like vulture's has nothing to do with peter
There are no person
Nothing to do with peter. Isn't it like you'd argue is quite focused on peter because he needs those glasses
Yeah, like he's very focused on peter
He he came to him twice to talk to him and have this heart to heart and
Yeah, I mean in that sense, yes, but the motivations there's no nowhere near as strong a personal connection and rivalry or even menace
That is comparable to the vulture
Yeah, not not quite as strong sure but his focus was definitely on peter
I mean is vulture necessarily his motivation connected to peter?
I mean, no, no, not the motivation what is doing but in terms of their conflict is a very personal conflict
sure
Wouldn't you say this one's pretty personal though as soon as he finds out the mysterious lied to him?
Well, maybe I mean mysterious main issue with peter parker is that you're getting in my way ergo
I want to know you're right
I mean the conflict in the film becomes extremely personal right because it's like you
Tricked me and now you're hitting people with the thing. I was entrusted with you bum
I do not like a few
I don't know. I think the stronger emotion is holy crap. I stuffed up so majorly
I really need to fix this and stop this guy. Otherwise
You know dead lives are on my head
Um
But yeah, i'd say he'd probably still be a bit peeved that he was duped so
Easily maybe I was hearing your argument that you don't think it was
as easy
I don't like the fact he gave him the glasses
Not at that rate. No, I agree. Oh, yeah, my opinion is
Anyone with two brain cells would you know only pass on those glasses after some very serious
Long drawn out considered
Thought and everything like that and even if you are liking this guy and is you know
Doing things to you know get great in your trust
It's way too soon to address such a pivotal kind of thing upon him
Like any person would take a longer time to make that decision. I reckon if they were smart
I think it strikes me as a dumb thing. Yeah
Apparently they want
There's people in chat. I want me to dress um
Peter you don't need to be iron man
No one can be iron man and then peter builds a suit just like tony while listening to acdc performing the same mannerisms
Why is that a contradiction? Do you think it's just to be iron man? It's as superficial as building a suit with acdc on
Well, I mean
In terms of how films offer cues to uh indicate certain directions i'd say that's a pretty strong one
Yeah, but you know
he's also
Mentored by him. So it's easily can so you can you can also go just as easily an interpretation that it's uh
Well, the other keeping a part of iron man with him
Yeah, the other interpretation is that in being the next spider-man he wants to take some of the iron man with him as a
Benefit or something and I can't believe i'm defending far from home
But yeah, maybe that's a way to look at it that
The future spider-man can carry some of the positive influences iron man has given him forward
And that scene in where he's got the iron man
Music and because the other thing is interesting like this does set up a situation where peter
Does make his own suit?
And it is as good as the one that iron man gave him because he's using iron man tech
But it explains in a decently good way how peter parker is able to make his own suit and have it look so good
Without having being a master
see
Seamster
Yeah, no, no, we've established a semen
Such an effective
Yes, exactly. It's not a plot hole, but it weakens the argument. How would it what?
So like what argument so
I guess that he's like iron man
It's like him and him and iron man on totally different journeys performing totally different like uh roles in this universe
um, I mean
My opinion is generally and i'm not saying they executed it. Well in this film, but I think you could have
spider-man be influenced in a positive way by external characters including iron man and not undermine the core of what the character is
um, there are some you know
concerns
About the iron man influence and I was talking about that with the having access to the glasses and having such a powerful
You know tool at his disposal really
uh
Hamstrings some of the conflict that you can give him
If you wanted to have him challenged properly with the villains he faces in the future
And so if you want a good if you want to have a good conflict in spider-man stories going forward
You need to remove the glasses somehow because I agree. Actually, I do agree
Snow stakes they try to make me care about his relationship to peter but spend no time developing it holland and jill and all
Have some really nice chemistry, but that can only get you so far
Quentin beck's motivation is all about tony and that's just dare. I say it lazy
Jill and hall does the best and has a lot of fun with what he's given but he's given so little
It's not like it's a surprise that he's the bad guy
Everybody who has picked up a spider-man comic or seen a spider-man flick knows that he's going to go bad at some point
uh
That's tertiary information though. I never read the comic so I didn't know that but I was it was it a twist for you
Like i'm just interested. Yeah, how did the twist come off as like unexpected because
Like it was impossible for me to experience that because I knew of the character already
Um, there there was some doubt in the back of my mind. I mean, yeah, I did I did get twisted
Um, but there was some doubt in the back of my mind
It was kind of weird how he was getting really buddy buddy with peter like so so soon
And then like how weirdly anticlimactic that fire guy battle was like. Oh, okay. You you you flew in
And you exploded the guy and no consequences
And then if it wasn't for it being an illusion i'd be thinking how the hell did he do that?
And what are his powers? But because it's illusion
Yeah, it's like and another thing that I missed uh when when spidey uh webbed
Uh fireman and he pulled out a a projector at first like I had looked away for a moment
I thought he lost his web shooter because like yeah, so that was just me not really paying too much attention
I think I might have gotten like more doubt if I was paying just a little more attention and realized he pulled it from the
monster
but yeah, um
but when he
Does reveal that like his plan was to get the glasses and everything like that i'm all like, huh?
I would have believed this working out better if he at least asked for the glasses some more
Like oh, what if I did it, you know, i'm a responsible dude. Well, you know something like that
I imagine that that would be too much of a reach though, right? Like he's trying to get peter to do it on his own
It's like the benefit is to be like, whoa
I don't want these like no way and then he just gives him something. He's like, oh, uh, yeah, okay
You know, he doesn't want to push him way too hard
but I feel like he kind of needed to
Understand peter for a lengthier amount of time than he did in order to understand that that was what peter would do
And that's where things got just a little weird for me
I feel like they did what they did to make the twist just hit a little harder to me
but uh
Yeah, so yeah, I did get I did get twisted
Yeah, there's a degree of people that well because there's a
I think it's safe to say there's a lot of people who don't even know who mysterious is previous to this movie because he hasn't been
in
The raimi or the uh, the other sony ones
So again, like I understood that he was a bad guy, but i'm not really entirely sure
why I got uh
Twisted oh you knew he was a bad guy, but you still got twisted
Well, he was talking about like
Alternate universes in which I grown super goddamn hard. I honestly
I thought he was going to be like, oh this must be good guy
Mysterio because of he's an alternate timeline. Mysterio. Uh
Turns out he was lying. So i'm like, oh shit subversion
So if i'm not connected to him
If I can't see his point and I can't feel his connection to peter
Then why am I supposed to care because he got fucked over by tony stark?
That would maybe work if either of the films critiqued tony stark's actions, but they don't with um
Critiqued stony tony stark's actions
I mean i'm i guess i'm confused about the whole like
Caring about uh, mysterious. I don't think we're supposed to think of what he is doing is like a reasonable thing
like what he's doing is kind of
kind of nutbally
Well, like if you're going to compare into vulture
It's like yeah, you can care about vulture because he's his fundamental thing is trying to protect his family or provide for them
And uh, he's kind of robin hood in it trying to take from people who wouldn't even like maybe even experience the loss
So there's definitely um, you could see yourself one day maybe falling into that position, but mysterious is like
Yeah, he got his life's work stolen, but he's still
The madness element of his character has to be there in order for him to take the next few steps
So all of us are like, oh well, I wouldn't go mad
Well, that's why one of one of the reasons why I didn't like him
He was just evil for the sake of being evil. I don't think his reaction was
Proportional or realistic from and it was his life work wasn't even really stolen. It was tony stark gave him the
Millions of money to fund his you know live stream and everything like that
So he got to achieve it. He just didn't get the recognition he wanted from it or that or the tech like
What do you want the tech to do because did he then get annoyed that tony stark shelved it and didn't?
I guess he always wanted to do the illusion stuff or did I can't remember what he says
yeah, I could just
Yeah, there was he's like insulted that it's used for um therapy, right? He's like he used it for therapy
and he has
Like you know if you're a decent person you would think that's not a terrible thing
What did he want it to be used for?
um, and so it's like he already starts sociopathic and evil because that's what villains need to be
And so he is not very serviceful. Yeah, he pales to vulture. I'll agree with that
With vulture you could at least empathize a tad but with mysterious. He's nothing more to me than a by the book villain
There is one standout visual sequence where peter gets knocked around in a mysterious acid trip
But it's seemingly all done in a computer. No practical effects. Nothing tangible for me to grab on to wait
uh, so yeah, the lack of practical effects isn't uh,
I I don't think that's too fair to say that that therefore makes the scene bad
In fact, I think the use of cgi is almost needed to have a good, you know
um trail of the yeah the illusion and stuff like that my my issue with um, the the illusions there
seem to be
so reaction reaction and
Reactionary to what peter is doing that um, I mentioned this to more the only way that
they they could uh
Be modified on the fly in such a natural way
In response to peter's actions as if there's some really advanced program
Reprogramming and rendering and making these illusions on the fly
Which seems to be contradicted quite strongly about the setup and practice that we're doing in with the um rock monster illusion
It seems like to make these work required a lot of manual input and that's contradicted by that scene in my mind
Um one can argue that now that he has the glasses he has those kinds of resources
He did he have all he did have the glass at that point, didn't he?
um
But I don't know like like again
the drones are like
With there's no indication to there's no thing to indicate that these drones are any different to the ones he was using previously
and uh
They established that to make these illusions takes a fair bit of manual input and design to make it all
Work, you know
We come across realistically and stuff
And so as soon as you throw that into a situation where you want these illusions to respond to what?
A person is doing that you can't perfectly predict
I mean, what if spider-man just simply instead of walking left he will walk right and just walk outside of the illusion
And so, okay, maybe he can direct the positioning of them. But a lot of what peter is experiencing seemed very
like
Responsatory refer to what peter's actions were yeah
I mean
You know like a gyroscope it might be that the drones do have a basic sort of understanding of
Whatever movement peter has they they have a equal and opposite reaction to make sure they maintain the illusion
I can't imagine it not being that way
Did he time it with the um?
With the train
Or was he just really lucky the train happened to be coming
At that time and he decided let's get him near the tracks
I'm assuming he always knew the train was going to come
They just that but then how did he know spider-man was going to get there?
Because he went in the car with yeah, and so
Still it's probably more than one. It's like a bullet train, right? It's probably more than one every so often
He thought they've already established that he was no problem having the drone shoot him
So I imagine if the train wasn't going to come he was probably just going to shoot him dead anyway
But then but then the train hits him was like that works and it cleans up the body too
Not really, but you know the point the points of that fight scene from a stereos point of view was to find out
Who knew about the drones? Was that it? And that's why he's posed as
as
Fury to get peter to tell him
You know because he says who knows about him and stuff and then peter tells him like oh you're an idiot
Okay, so
All right
Yeah, I would say that's a good plan to try and get the information you want from someone by posing as an ally
What did you uh, what did you think of the scene itself? Like what the visuals I mean
I love that like the visuals like in terms of the most mysterious like you know
Um scene where the powers the the the way mysterious fighting felt so distinctly
Mysterio like yeah, absolutely. Absolutely that scene, you know really captured the mystery. I could be wrong
For the part where he's like there's statues everywhere. I'm pretty sure there's an iron man a cap and a black widow statue
They're all like filling the floor sort of thing
They're all cracked and broken on the floor and then the one that's standing tall is the mysterious one and I was just like oh
This is so awesome
Oh, it's so so haunting it's so much fun the computer no practical effects nothing tangible for me to grab on to
I really don't get the practical effects argument when you're dealing with
No, I don't get that one. Yeah, this is more of a personal issue
I have with a lot of mcu films especially in recent years
They make these things so quickly that a lot of the time practical stunt work and choreographed fight scenes are instead replaced with action pieces
All done in post and yeah, these visual effects are really creative and the sequences are cool. But call me an old man
I just prefer the real deal. No, I I don't have a problem with that
Idea subjective opinion though, like he prefers, you know practical effects. That's fine
But doesn't mean that the movie is lesser
I love me some practical stuff too
But I don't know that it would have worked in the way of convincing us that this is a functioning illusion. That's change
You know, I mean
exactly, it's a it's a
Holographic acid trip you could say all that strange
That it's like he's generating computer images in their world
So to see computer generated images on our end would make the most sense. I don't know
That seems it seems like they made the right choice if they had a choice
They probably wouldn't have done practical anyway, but you know
Outside of that one sequence though
This movie has no overt visual style or flair which shocked the hell out of me because the same person who shot far from home
Shot some very beautiful and artful episodes of daredevil far from home brings back a final swing of sorts
But it's nothing that we haven't seen done with more gravitas and more elegance in previous spider-man films
In the ramy films and spider-verse even the first amazing spider-man film the final swing was a triumphant heroic and sometimes haunting note
To end the films on it was a celebration of when you say that about this one though
The haunting note being no public enemy number one
Oh, no. No, like I think it's this is a nitpicky thing
But I did miss the awesome visual of spider-man swinging through the city as a as a more
Constant element of the movie like a lot of it was absent because he wasn't in new york
And there wasn't a lot of buildings to swing on the stuff
That's just fun to watch and you do miss it when it's not there
So I if is if is if that's what it's referring to I get it. Well, and uh, I honestly do wish
Well, just just quickly modification mentioned in chat. Let's uh, you remember he like recolors his suit to the
From the black to the red during that scene. So it the the illusion the drones probably are
Like constantly mapping exactly where peter's moving because they'd have to maintain that illusion on him if you know what I mean
They're black to red
But what black to red? I'm so like he's he's in his night monkey suit
And then right at the beginning of like the illusion starting up he mysterious recolors spider-man to his red
Do you remember easy I can't no I can't remember like I couldn't remember what suit is wearing and then if you're
If you're uh, I just remembered as well when they're highlighting the fact that one of the um drones are missing
He shakes his hand and he's like what's going on here?
You know because it's like not able to stay with his hand because one of the drones is missing
But I think they do bind themselves to the uh, so there's a certain level of
Automatic rendering as much as you might be like wow, pretty amazing technology. I'm like, yeah
Yeah, but you know, they're saying that that's the case. I guess
Iron man's suit is pretty amazing as well. So
Mm-hmm
Peter's growth and a miles growth
This peter doesn't grow he doesn't really change so his final swing feels so
Soulless to me. I think even if you didn't like the change you'd say changed, right?
No, absolutely. Or could you say he just reaches the same point in where he was at the end of
homecoming
To a certain degree
But like he's becoming just a little more comfortable with the fact that he's got these responsibilities on his shoulders
And he does manage to get mj and it fills him with
You know a greater level of confidence because he did what he set out to do
and after that was off his shoulders, you know, he was able to concentrate just a little bit more and then he was able to
Work out the iron man stuff to get his suit going we catch as a plan
But then what
Elements does he have as an improvement or difference?
from
Far from at the end of um homecoming. I mean
He has far less. Uh, he has far less weight on his shoulders over the whole tony store
Yeah, I would say he's gotten over
Or at least he's instead of grieving for tony's absorbed tony in with like he's keeping him with him
That's a bit different because that's addressing things that happen in endgame
Where he's not really grieving at the end of far from home
And so if he's comparing where peter is at the end of sorry homecoming
Where peter is at the end of homecoming compared to where he is at the end of this one
There's a lot of you don't see too much character progression
It feels like he is
He has retread a lot of the issues you thought he would have already sorted out
Like if he's going to fully commit to this thing being spider-man, is he going to commit to the responsibility he has?
And and no matter what the threat that comes upon him
He will you know, try and help people and not try and dodge the
Responsibility like you did in this film. That would be my assumption. Yeah
The problem is yeah, we kind of need the third film to be able to definitively say but my take would be
first one he's
Like fully established as i'm going to be a hero for these reasons this one
He's like i'm going to be a hero for these reasons and in these scenarios i'm gonna act
Yeah, see that's that's one of the additional reasons. I didn't really like it
It feels like they're extending the origin story of spider-man into the point where he's supposed to be spider-man for two films already
and especially when he's trying to like it seems like
He's needing to learn things that it seemed like either he had already learned or should have learned in the previous movie
like it comes across
negatively to me because someone who you need to kind of
Pound the lesson into and they're not learning like just like they're not picking it up
So there it seems like a bit slower or there. I don't know. It just
Doesn't come off it nearly as well
As a result
Well in homecoming he was coming to grips with being spider-man and being an avenger
But now he's coming to grips with having like tony stark's legacy on his shoulders and he wasn't sure if he could do it anymore
Now he's sure of that. So he had a larger weight on his shoulders and he was able to adapt
See even then I don't think that's because he says, you know, you don't need to be I mean
You need to be your own speeder man. It's not sorry spider-man. It's not that it's trying to
Yeah, speeder man. I I'm tired and I don't know. I know that feeling. I know I've still got to do superchats
I feel sorry for you guys, but I was up unnaturally early. So i'm a bit tired as well
I think we still got a speeder man
Yeah
Um
What was I saying? Yeah, um, I forget now i'm tired
It's okay. Well, uh, let's let's kick on continue
I guess they would have done they typically do cgi touch-ups, but I mean it's
I don't know. That's kind of how I remember it in the film. I I guess it might look different
I didn't I didn't notice anything, but maybe he's got a keener either me
Think of tom holland pouring his heart and soul into a film and into a role where the writing made it impossible for me
To connect to spider-man to peter. I was sick of it all teenagers don't behave this way
They don't have the emotional maturity and empathy of 12 year olds. Okay. Sorry
You're wrong. That's interesting because my my issue is that he was acting too much like a teenager. Yeah
He's he's he's so teenager it's
I don't know which which annoys me is like he's always being more mature and smarter and teenagers are kind of like
man
You can get a lot of
Yeah, my guys can be
Really?
They could just be really rash and really I mean they're a good argument for why you shouldn't have kids
really annoying
Because they'll eventually become teenagers. I have four by the way
Any of them teenagers the dreaded not yet. Not yet. I mean the golden age of their childhood at the moment
It's a pretty good time. Enjoy it. I'd enjoy it. Yeah, I don't fill you in on how the teenagers
I'll be ready to kill myself freaking 20 not too long ago
I was the age of these kids and none of this feels real to me
Oh man, i'm I don't want to be like oh, okay
I don't know. So that's a subjective opinion on he didn't experience these things and
I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. I think sometimes things are taken to an extreme as a character sure
Just to make it more impactful
like honestly in the first, you know in homecoming where flash is doing the whole
What penis parker thing like if that actually happened in a party and I saw someone doing that I would have been you're such a retard
What are you doing? Shut the hell up? Yeah, like like someone would have you know, the fact that
You know bullying like that can go unchecked
I don't know sometimes in some instances does but my experience usually I was gonna say i've stand up to it
I've been around some really shit bullies like bullies. We're just like wow you need to work on your material
Yeah, yeah
So again, that might be my me got drawing off my own subjective experience having said that as well. So yeah
It feels like a 30 year old's understanding of what it's like to be 16 17
It's an idealized version of being a teenager Ned starts dating. I guess this girl is betty brant
We really know nothing about her going in and know nothing about her going out and the entire thing is this obnoxious running gag
I think it speaks volumes about where they want to take the character of spider-man in this universe when instead of fleshing out characters
Like Ned betty flash key players in the spider-man canon
They are used for the sole purpose of getting a chuckle out of the audience. How can peter parker afford? Um
But the thing is like different characters get focused I guess
Should those be focused because they're focused in the comics?
flash doesn't get huge, you know, um
characterization and attention and depth depending on the different one like there are some instances where it goes into
Some things and confrontations in peter and flash like i'm remembering ultimate spider-man comic series and stuff
But it's never a huge amount is very much a background
Character there to serve as an antagonist in peter's social life
so, yeah, I don't think that's
Necessary that i'm not saying it wouldn't be an improvement if they but that also means you've got to devote more time to explore these
Secondary minor characters in which at the time might have been served much more efficiently focusing on things more important
Potentially I do gotta agree with him about betty though
She just kind of seemed like a joke and then but I think that's what it was, right? I don't think she is a character
She's just a joke
It's just a joke
I don't know. Maybe that's what they were going for in us. But uh, yeah, I think so
I can't tell you a trait of his she's uh
I mean, I remember her name until you brought it up
Or to go on this trip. I don't know. Maybe it's paid for by the school
Perfect opportunity to have peter have some relatable money problems, but nope, it's too fun for that
I'm sick of a peter parker without problems without relatable problems and without lasting consequences. I don't know. I think chasing a crush is a relatable problem
Yeah trying to chase a crush while having
freaking
The avenger's like breathing down his neck. I mean to do things
Yeah, it is a problem him wanting to go on a holiday
and the fact that you know, he has superhero things to do but I don't like the fact that he
You know
tries to fob off the superhero thing in in preference to the holiday thing that I didn't like
But it is a it is a legitimate personal problem that is existing that is having to deal with so
The fact that he is not dealing with problems. I don't agree with
Yes, there are problems
Once is for those unrelatable issues he faces
This isn't a version of peter that I can empathize with feel for care about root for
This is a kid who has handed everything and wants to give it all up to go on a school trip
This is a kid who gets knocked down but gets pulled back up by tony stark by nick fury by happy hogan by his supportive friends
This is a kid who hasn't quite got him with great power comes great responsibility. This is a kid who has
I mean, I agree with some of his criticisms there like um, I think is he counting both films?
Just far from home with these things. He's making some very broad statements
And so it's hard to try and address every single one
I mean because there are some things that I think oh, no, that's not entirely fair
But oh at that point is a fair thing. Is he referring to this movie or that movie?
Yes, I think it's this one. Um, I don't know man. He takes on the army of drones and mysterious himself like
You know
Great power with great responsibility thing. I really I definitely got that in homecoming
Tony was trying to tell that tell him that just not that directly, you know, he doesn't he didn't give him
Doesn't use those words not really tony's quote to give
Yeah, because ben gave him those quotes as far as we know. Anyway, we don't really know for sure
But still I feel like he did learn that arc in homecoming
But if he did learn it is um, uh betraying that standard in this movie
Well, see but that's the element of naivety. He thinks he's being responsible to provide the glasses to the world's greatest hero
Yeah, and not to mention like you know anything related to the glasses because I find it so dumb that they even exist
Just undermines any validity anyone can try and put to them because I still come back to that
Yeah, but they shouldn't even be in the movie. They're stupid
I don't necessarily disagree with that, but I understand we get we get his logic
He's like only trusted me to find the person who best should have these like who better than the guy?
who out of
Out of guilt lost his earth and is trying to defend ours and nearly gave his life to save it, you know
Yep, I want to watch it again to see if I can agree with that interpretation. I'm just not we should watch it together when it comes out
I'm not disagreeing with that
The name spider-man but feels nothing like spider-man to me
Peter parker in the mcu is a happy-go-lucky kid who lives in the shadow of a more interesting
Charismatic and capable hero and maybe that's the point
He was introduced as a fun side character in civil war and from there on out used to tell us things about tony stark
And his legacy i'd be surprised if tony's gonna have much more relevance outside of uh, this film
Like this film was almost a goodbye
Oh, no, they're gonna do an iron heart. They're female
There's gonna be oh, no, sorry. I mean in relation for peter. So like peter's
uh
Sort of goodbye to him was this film if gee, I don't know like if they don't address some fairly significant things
It's going to feel like a lot of inconsistency like
Is he going to be using the iron spider and then oh, no, you're right. Yeah
It depends on how they deal with like what does he do with the glasses and stuff? And uh, then
Oh unlike I like I didn't like the end credit scene, but I guess we'll come to that eventually
But a story of spider-man shouldn't be a story about ironman the legend of peter parker is more important than that
Far from home doesn't take the iconic character of spider-man seriously
So why should I take this movie seriously?
This film constantly feels the need to remind you not to take it seriously peter is betrayed beat up his friends
I don't know when he's staring at tony's grave. It does seem like a serious moment. The plane seemed seemed like a serious moment
So sorry, this is really random but the drones create illusions
Yet
As are they throwing around real water in that hydro man illusion?
So we see them shoot bullets fire missiles
Throw fire and like pulse and they show them under the water and they pulse and it was like sends waves over the uh
over the side
So it's easy to tell that like either the torpedoes or the pulses are are splashing water from the kind of
That's like things we're supposed to assume. No, it's a fair question. Honestly
Almost die a mysterious dead, but seconds after all this trauma. Peter is smiling because he kissed the girl and saved the day
Yeah
Wouldn't you?
Yeah, i'd say that could make you smile
I'd be pretty happy myself
I can believe he is crying under the mask when he's you know
Meeting mj. Oh, yeah
Yeah, um, wait, yeah, I meant to ask you about that you said when you say he's crying under the mask
He's not wearing a mask when he talks to mj on the bridge
Doesn't he? No, because he the mask is off when he puts on the edith thing and then when he goes down it's off as well
Okay, because I specifically remember mj commenting on him crying or something during that scene. I mean I need to watch it again
I I I agree with that. Nothing is learned. No lasting impact. No emotional weight
Jk simmons returns as j jonah jameson which in any other franchise or any other movie would be literally the best thing ever
And I would probably cry tears of joy
But I could care less because seconds later the entire world now knows that peter parker is spider-man
Any chance of his identity crisis becoming an issue?
All the stories and all the drama that comes from him having to hide half of himself is tossed away
If I were an optimistic man, I would say that they could tell some pretty dramatic and cool stories about the entire world knowing
He's spider-man. It's a very different direction for this classic character a direction
That could be interesting and provide real lasting consequences
But knowing how the mcu has treated peter, it will probably be brushed off and somehow turned into a running joke
Well, I guess we'll see
Yeah, I mean that's yet to be seen
Yeah, I didn't like the reveal of him being spider-man. I mean
My biggest issue was the fact that I felt it happened way too soon in this character progression and there was so much
missed
The armor that you would have expected to have been explored as the spider-man character
um to reach something so extreme it really struck me at the same way as killing superman so early in the um,
um, uh, you know dc universe is like whoa
There was a lot of setup you should have gone through before just dump jumping onto that
um
And and then my other issue and I was talking to you about this before mauler is yeah
I don't think they're going to commit to it maybe for a movie or two
But somehow the status quo is going to be reset up. I let's let's hope they don't do the thing
I know
Dr
Strange will come in and mind wipe everyone to give peter parker the safety in his life again
To stop the villains attacking, you know, aunt may or something
um
And that's a cop out that annoys me
If you're gonna do it commit to it and then see if you can well
Could they make a better spider-man as a result in this new status quo possibly?
I reckon if you're gonna have the balls to do something like that then see it through, you know
Yeah, i'm genuinely i'm gonna be very curious how they handled the third film in his
If you call it trilogy at that point, I guess you would
We'll have to see what that makes it really exciting to see where they go with it
Clearly i'm not an optimistic man
Spider-man far from home was a theater experience. I genuinely wish to forget
I never thought spider-man would become this I never thought I would see a spider-man movie that made me feel this empty
And I guess i'm just done
You won't see another video for me about this franchise unless they take another major shift in direction
You won't see the dude who has been in love with spider-man and been in love with films since he was four years old
You won't see my ass in the theater
And boy
Does that suck?
This isn't my spider-man, which would be fine if this was a film I enjoyed outside of that, but it wasn't
This isn't any kind of film series that I care about if you care about it. That's great
If this peter works for you, that's great. I don't want to take that away from you
I'm not here to shit on your joy and happiness
And i'm definitely not here to tell you how to feel and we are not here to shit on your unhappiness
Because that would just be mean
But that's what makes you worry is the heartbreak of a true spider-man fan my friends
I can under I can understand, you know a decent amount of his disappointment
I don't of course. I don't agree with every criticism he gives but I think there's some decent amount of overlap here
All I can do is tell you how I feel and I feel a little bit
Heartbroken
I feel betrayed
I'm not angry. I'm disappointed
And there we have it
That was both of the high top videos which everyone was desperate for us to cover
um
I think he almost like half of the videos both of them he made were very much the perspective of like how you
Would say that comics had a better portrayal slash better story to tell but then the other half was like
References that just weren't necessarily that accurate as performed as criticisms of the films
like
They did x y and z and it's like but but they didn't really did they if you consider x y and a and b and c
That sort of thing. Um
Not like the worst videos in the world or anything. No, that's a that's a that's a useful criticism
Coming from me fab. That's a bloody compliment
um
Considering some of the stuff that you guys ventured to uh to watch at times
Um, yeah, a lot of people have been saying like you're gonna invite him on
The show is just like yeah, he can come on if he wants to absolutely
Uh, hi top if you're interested. I don't know why he would go through both of these streams
He has no idea what he fab is i'm assuming he doesn't
So it's just how many hours of content is this stream up to like so we're mining them both
I believe we did five hours on the first one. We're currently at 420 on this one. So it's nine hours and 20 minutes so far
That's good. We're about to have a rerun of the air taxing thing. And yeah, it's gonna probably reasonably
I'm gonna need another two hours to read all the super chats
Don't know if I can stick around with you for that man. I'm so sorry. It's okay
It's it's okay. I still have a lot of work to do tomorrow. Oh
Dang it. I don't blame anybody. Let's see how we go. All right
so
first one is
chad mcguire versus virgin holland
I
I guess yeah, a lot of people
Consider the the the ramies to smash the the holland three sony fair
Thoughts on the recent cats trailer horrifying
You've seen that I have not watched it. I've heard that it's nightmare fuel
Yep, they got memes of that already and it's hilarious
I'm actually curious how it's gonna do and I wonder if general audiences
Like if it's just an internet thing or if his general audience has actually been like, oh my god
Like in the center of it. Oh, jesus. What is that? Oh, no
There's some scary stuff in there
Um, i'm ready to efap. Excellent. Saw this movie yesterday. So pumped for this one
Well, i'm assuming they're referring to far from home and that was back in the first stream. So it only took her like
like six hours
We honestly though we got pretty much everything I wanted us to get to so i'm not even angry i'm not even mad
Uh molly here's some money for you to buy a kitkat and a soda for your dignity
That's a reference and it's a very strong one
Why thank you. So the lion king remake aladdin was better. I've heard nothing but bad things about lion king the remake same
Yeah, they said that was like shot for shot except with no expressions. No
Anything good and they like extended a few scenes that went
Well, I mean
This one
It'll still probably make the money it needs right?
And then they'll they'll probably finish up the disney renaissance movies
And then everyone's terrified that they'll start remaking pixas like classic movies into live action. I was like, oh no
Can you imagine like a live action toy story or something?
Oh
Like i'm not opposed to live action remakes if they actually do intend to
Reinvent it and usually because live action is more realistic because it's live action
It suits a more realistic interpretation of the source material to make it more grounded more believable and stuff
And so when they try and aim for that i'm like, yeah
Let's let's see what you can do
But if they're just trying to make a weird live action version of the animation a lot does not translate well
I agree with that statement and i've accidentally just pulled the border on the efap logo. That's probably gonna be fucked now
Great. Let's try to grab something on obs
How dare you?
uh
What is the name? My thirst will be quenched. Thank you long, man. That's
Suggestive the suggestive super chat. How are you guys doing? You're doing good. How are you guys doing?
How has life been that's getting answered like
10 hours later. I got we have to the audience need to know how we're feeling after this amount of dude. I am spider-man out
I think I have talked too much about spider-man. I didn't start talking about star wars again. Remember this channel. He's talking about star wars
Oh speaking of which somebody was asking me repeatedly
What my pick was for the most inconsistent character and I never answered. Oh, you didn't
So if you're if you're still watching my friend, um, I have decided that it's going to be ray
because
While ray has been like, you know, the total mary sue of the series. I feel like in response to that
they're going to pull her back really really hard and she's going to
suddenly just
Become like a klutz or she's going to make like an equal choice out of nowhere
I'm happy to be very possible that they send her through a new kind of training montage arc or whatever to try and
Establish her. Oh, no, no, there's a reason why she's powerful. She still has stuff to learn
I'm happy to put that as your vote though. I will tell you
I saw a quote. I don't know if it was actually from here or not
But I remember reading a quote on reddit and it said something like from daisy ridley. Um
uh
Ray is like so much more of a better fighter in this one
Like she's saying it like ray has come a long way and I was like she's a better fight. Oh, no
Like uh, like
I totally can see her still as being like, you know being able to beat everyone
But maybe like her morals will just out of nowhere like shift to make like shocking
Things that like were just kind of kind of sudden
Mm-hmm
So i'm thinking that's where she's gonna go. I have no doubt that she's just still gonna kick everyone's ass. But uh
You know her morals are gonna get weird for no reason. I think they're just gonna pull her back in response
They should have abandoned it after the last gen. I jumped ship. There's no way to say this
I love that that film made it stop
It really did it really did my goodness
And some people think we will look back on it in a decade as a masterpiece
Another three star wars movies are going to come out and then they're going to be like, you know
Maybe those movies weren't so bad
Just like the prequels if anyone out there is ever in a class where they're teaching it as bad writings
Like please take a photo and send it to me. That'll be like the most hilarious moment for me
That's where it belongs
Like the last jedi reset the lowest score so low
That has made the prequels good and this goes into everything that we've been talking about
Oh, there was definitely a noticeable the people like the prequels are the worst thing ever. What's the sequels happen?
They're like the prequels are okay
They're not the worst thing ever
And yet they haven't changed
True here we go. Maybe people were just too judgmental the whole time. What about that?
I don't know. You need a you need a reference point and if there was nothing as atrociously bad in the styles as last jedi
Like the prequels won the the thing of being the worst direction now reckon we won't reach a new low
Oh, do you reckon we're safe now? Oh, I hope not
But that it's dead to me now
So why because I was thinking like you can't kill luke twice. Can you so?
Like and by kill, I mean assassinate and help a team now they're going through the list. They're just checking them off
Can we get scallogram on efap?
Oh, that would be cool. You either not. I don't know who that is. Do you know who that is?
So okay
He's in my community of the sword and he's uh, he's uh, he's a veteran the one of the og sword youtubers and stuff
And so I don't know if it would appeal to him
But he does like to do live streams
He more focuses on the weapon related maybe we could have him cover all the videos
You did on your first appearance and see if he has different takes
You might and then he's and he's like if anyone thought this was inaccurate, they'd be wrong and you're like they're an absolute
We could just host a debate between you two like what is objectively the best sword
By the way shed, um, you know, I've only very recently, um
Become aware of your channel after you started showing up on efap. Do you do um
Smithing
No, this I have a very deep interest in the technical side of it
Like, you know the whole process that's happening into the you know
The actual phase structures of the the atomic crystalline structures and everything like that to understand how it affects
And I made like several videos on it and it's something that I would like to explore in the future
I've done it a little bit but it's like
It's some interesting shit
Like I actually kind of got a little I got a little hooked recently on this, uh history channel show called forged and fire
I think some of you might have heard of it already. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I I know of it very much
So I haven't watched anything of it yet, but I really really cool
Because like they they go through the smithing process and every time you like hear like maybe a new word related to smithing
they'll actually show you what the word means in the process of it while you're still watching the show go on and it's
It's really interesting. I actually learned a lot. I don't really plan on actually doing any smithing myself
Yeah, I I really want to watch forged and fire. It's just in australia. It's hard to find anything that streams it so
amazon
Yeah, i'd have to buy it though and i'm a cheapskate. I kind of did it already
so
I got seasons. Uh season. You know what? No the first season should be free
Oh
Okay. Oh, thank you. Yeah
Uh, it might be time to use my vpn
We'll see
Um
A bit of a moshi moshi rag desu
Uh was just rewatching your response to tro and quinton happy to see another efap. Oh, those were the days
That's the like one of the only videos. There's a couple I think but it's one of the only videos we never finished
Yeah, we couldn't do it
It was that bad really?
Um, it was the it was the near two hour video taking down rags that we responded to it took a while
I recently watched the one where you had tro one. That was oh my
Did you?
What did you think?
Um, he did his best to try and
Be uh, I guess address the criticisms while
Really trying to defend quinton at the same time and did put him in an awkward. You know, what's funny? Uh,
Recently quinton has basically said fuck the commentary community, which tro is a part of
Um, so it wasn't worth it. Uh,
Quinton's like one of the the big backstabbers at this point
So it's just like i'm sorry
But because you see a lot of comments on that video saying something like he's like a battered housewife
And it's like yeah, he he really goes to bat for quinton when all he needed to do is be like, yeah
Quinton fucked up big time
Yep
He defended his friends and he didn't get that it returned so there we are
Um, it's almost like quinton's a bad person. How dare you say how could you possibly know such things?
Uh, if ryan johnson suddenly appeared on efab, what would you say to him?
I don't know why
Just just why am I gonna let him interpret what I mean
Do better
Oh, that's actually kind of interesting. What would you say if you had one question for ryan johnson one question for ryan? Um
Did you get a lot of nose was it worth it you work with
Because
Well, it's it's
That answer has to be pretty obvious
But I would have to ask if he got a lot of resistance from like the people working with him
And saying like, you know, I know uh, I know uh, mark hamill was all like that's not Lou's character
But you know, I wonder who else you know, yeah
It'd be so awkward. Oh my gosh. I mean, honestly if I met him i'd just try and
Not bring up
I'd want to be nice. But if I got one question i'd be like, oh i'd want to make it worthwhile
Yeah, you don't want entirely want to crap on the guy. He seems nice
I'd have a really hard time just saying like, uh, fuck you dude. How does it feel to suck, you know?
He's like, I don't know who you are you're like, that's okay. I know who you are
It'd be tough to
Be the one who is seen as the person who murdered star wars by so many people
Gosh, that's like such a huge amount of hatred
From people quite the achievement. Well, I can't imagine what his twitter looks like from day one to day now
And you know like
I suspect he probably went into it with the intention to make the best star wars film ever made
And it's like maybe see there. I was just trying to do the right thing and everyone hates me for it
Oh, he's got plenty of fans that plenty people love the film
he does seem to try and phase out any criticism at all and just focus on the praise and
I can I could actually somewhat relate have published my book
Maybe maybe i'll just be like, how are you ryan? How are you? Yeah
Uh
Related to last week's efap
But mr. Freeze from the animated series was so much better than the source comics that the comics changed in response
Yeah, mr. Freeze was uh, like he was a spooky dude
I mean that does go into what I was saying before that if uh,
an interpretation does try something take a risk to do something differently and honestly improves upon it and
Generally that will mean staying true to the core of the character
But even if you are able to do something completely different gosh, it'd have to be pretty darn good
But the general uh reaction to it is that the fandom embraces it quite strongly and says this is the new status query
We want this all the time if it's so good
um
so yeah, and
Look, of course, I think it's a balance between that as well and um the arguments I was making about
Um trying to judge what is the definitive version based on its complete works
Yeah, so
There's a couple of things that to come that comes into play in that discussion
So yes, yeah, there's probably a bunch of things up a good one
Uh, he said if I recall correctly, uh, the animated series gave freeze the backstory. So it's like oh, yeah, I think that's correct
Um, there's gonna be a couple questions
I'll probably explore those arguments as we went through the efaps
I'm probably not going to focus too heavily on exploring them again because we were doing it for
We spent a lot of time a decent amount of time
Throwing in my shackles before my 10 hour shift. Love you guys
Why I love you too
Why would you?
Why would you cry at the face of death or watching a father figure die? Man mcu pizza is such a soy boy
unlike the manly comic version
I missed that what was that I got
but i have a feeling it's
God
Do you want me to wait you say carry auto reread
I missed it. He said why would you cry at the face of death or watching your father figure die man?
mcu pizza is such a soy boy unlike the manly comic
I will say the comic version is generally more manly though. Does he have power tools? He needs to have power tools
Oh nice a power tool. Oh depends. I mean just a drill just one that he picks up every once in a while. I saw
Uh, well, did you ever realize that the asylum in outlast is called mount massive? I did realize that
Uh, someone mentioned on the discord and I thought it was funny. I it's it's a nice way to look back on that
Uh to wolf if you like oriole of hollow knight, I believe he's um looking into it because he's heard a lot of recommendations of a hollow knight
uh
Shad I saw you like brandon sanderson. What's your favorite book?
Ooh, that's it. It's a pretty close tie between miss born
The final empire and the way of kings but having said that man
I really enjoy some of his shorter form works like the wax and wane series
So the second one in wax of wane, I think it's the owl. No, the olive was the first one
I forget the second one the wax wane, but
oh the the
Brit he does this just brilliant brilliant thing where he
actually kind of deconstructs the negative stigma around arranged marriages and the uh,
The cliche the love interest is the female protagonist of the story and he breaks that apart really well in the second one
And then the the twist of what happens and he also has this beautiful kind of um
Way where he explores the morality of a deity and to what level of effect
They would have or should have in the um lives of others and how much is it moral for a deity to you know
Have influence in the course of events in on a world and stuff and this it was brilliant on so many levels
So there's a there's a lot to love in sanderson. Yeah, don't get me started
You asked for polls last week so I made one do you want me to send it again on twitter or discord because I want to test
Your knowledge of efap. Oh, i've uh been made aware of
A quiz like an efap quiz and uh, i've got a link to it ready and we'll probably check it out on the 50th episode
It'll be me wolf and rags trying to answer. I I hope
Um, but it's basically like weird, you know, like which episodes have the origins of which memes and stuff
We're gonna have to try and guess them and see how how good our efap law is
Is cool aid wet
Since it's a bunch of small solid particles covered and saturated by water
Oh, yeah shad what's your take on is water wet?
Uh again, I guess it'll depend on your definition of wet
If wet is something that needs to be coated in water to be wet water
Is by definition coated in itself? So
Um, that's typically what I run with. Um
Rags is vehemently disagrees with that
Really? Yeah, it was like a whole debate
If water if something is wet by being coated in water water by definition is coated in itself
So I would say yes
That's what I go with. I know that there's a counter. I can't remember what it is
But there is there is a valid counter. I like to say I can't remember. Also. My brain is melting
Your thoughts on sdcc phase four also. Hey fringy
sdcc is that
i'm assuming that's just um
the marvel stuff phase four
I don't know. They're talking about female thor and um, what are the other stuff things all the other stuff
Some tv shows coming. Yeah
Pretty much with a little bit. I'm just like, no
I'm excited for mutants and fantastic four in the mcu. Not excited about further
uh reinforcement of captain marvel continuity and potential
Adaptations of horrible characters that you know people have attempted in marvel comics recently
like you know iron heart that there's a worry and stuff and so
There there's things to be excited for and things to be concerned regarding phase
Whatever we're up to. I think it's four. Yeah, we'll we'll have to
Uh shad should I buy a tall war or do you have a
ruckman de turn
No, I do what that is
So tall war in a simitar family indian sword heavily curved. But what was the other one? He said
rcmnden
Doesn't seem like a real word
Yeah, I don't that might be one I haven't heard of like when it comes to the um
The simitar family of swords. There's a lot of weird names referring to things that people might just identify
Oh, you know that was a simitar or a shamshir or something. So
Sorry, I can't I can't tell you but tall wars are great. They come highly recommended
Uh, it's fine explain why it's top mcu3 you hack. Uh,
I put homecoming that high typically because of
How tight the writing is compared to the others in the mcu?
Most of the other films in the mcu have some
Really big issues that like make the films fall apart
Um, I made a video on captain marvels took me two hours to explain
Everything that falls apart
Not all of them that bad, of course
Still seriously looking forward to that unbridled every age on episode five. It's coming. I'm not saying hurry up
I'm just saying i'm really looking forward to it
I think it'll it'll be what people were looking for
They'll be annoyed there to wait as long as they did but it couldn't exist without having to be waited for
Because it takes time that makes sense, right? That was mathematics good things, etc.
Or I could just say stuff quotes quotes that were irrelevant. There you go
Building themselves
Movie binge update. Sorry. I keep doing this aliens man. This movie is pretty much perfect. Especially newt
She's so pure and cute. I wonder where they'll take a character after this alien three. What the fuck why well
Alien three was where it all started to go wrong
You got all the other ones
Uh, mysterious is the mandarin but better
They actually are bringing the mandarin properly in the phase four announcement
I find that kind of funny. They're like we're gonna have the proper one now
I was annoyed
There was so much to be annoyed in iron man three
But the fact that they did that to mandarin who could actually be in a really cool villain see and that's funny
I'm assuming you kind of hate iron man three, right?
Would you say so like I despise that film and it's funny how if me and you were to like band together
we could probably create like
Some pretty strong arguments if you you want to argue from comics as well as we've been like no, I just shit on its own
I still plan to rip that movie apart
One day
You gotta do genesis first
Someone came into work called rich evans. He looked just like and was as friendly as the don. I think i'm in love
That's a keeper right there. Anyone who's like the don
Offers people rides. We're in good directions. He's a good man
All you guys are gonna get the batwoman tattoo, right i'm getting it tomorrow batwoman tattoo
Oh, that is a dumpster fire in the making right there. Gosh, I know people are gonna want us to cover it
I'm like do we have to watch that?
Terrible. That's like
That's like subjecting it to torture to be out of comment on there's like really do you want us to punish ourselves like that?
You know, it's gonna be big
Just gonna oh yeah blade is something to be relatively excited about I hope I like blade
Are they remaking blade? Yeah, and they're um starring the guy who was in house of cards and um
Uh, he was in the green book the film that won best picture. I think the oscar this uh latest you
All right, well that's interesting part of the mcu
Yeah, as far as I understand which is why it's like
Vampires in the mcu
Yeah, but like are they allowed to make it our raid? I hope so because I don't want pg
Blade where he's like pushing vampires over and they go
No handle butts
He's don't hurt us
We have mere vampires
That would be funny though to have tony starkby told his vampires in the world. He'd be like what?
But honestly though we've got wizards with magic stones now, I mean
He draws the light of vampires that's just too far
Uh shad mentioned they could
I'm, sorry. Go. It was all good. Uh, shad mentioned history. He's a german bad nazi
Have you got have you got german heritage by any chance or no not to my knowledge?
I need to take one of those 23 and me tests to see where but from family history and stuff
It's like uh england island scotland wales basically the widest people on the planet is is my my cultural heritage
I'm sure you're still just a little more diverse than elizabeth
Oh, I read it wrong shad mentioned history there's no comma but imagine a comma he's a german bad nazi
So it's that video we covered where?
Yeah
Yeah, being honest to history
Evil I get annoyed with that as well
I like particularly because I love history and stuff the whole trying to whitewash crap to make it more palatable
It's like no history happened. Let's be honest to it
Yeah
Um
Beowyn was banned by a rogue discord mod free bowen. Uh, the mods don't tend to do that on the discord
They have like a whole thing that they've set up where they take
uh snapshots and they have to write out reasoning if they ban people so that
When other mods check it they can make sure
Um, but yeah, I have no control or reference for it. So
I am sorry, but it is a discord. I tend to use
Have you got a discord shad for your community?
An unofficial one that's run by the community. Yeah, because i've just been getting more and more busy and uh,
I know the guys on there. They you know, they're so
Get disappointed that I rarely ever appear and i'm sorry
It's just
So much is going on and one of the whole conditions of letting the fan base set up the discord was to be basically
Self-contained guys, I mean still it needs to be run according to my standards if it's bearing my brand name and stuff
Um, but you know, I just not going to be able to get on there a lot of the time
Yeah, that's fair enough, but there is one that exists
Would watch but I have to have a flight to catch well
Maybe if you're bored on the flight
And watch listen to some efap plenty of entertainment plenty of debating
Snarkiness and jokes and stories we had it all
I think so I just said like
I've I've even been to bed and woken up and you're still coming
Well, they want to for the 50th episode, which is like six away now. They want to do a 24 hour and I was like, oh my
I'm gonna have to sleep a lot to build that up
um
If we aren't told about uncle ben, we don't know where peter gets his rice making the film objectively bad
Checkmate log bad. That's true. Uncle ben's rice is uh
An objectively flawless product. So if he doesn't exist in the universe, we need an alternate source of rice
What are the rice and makes are there?
I'm so confused. You don't know uncle ben's the product
No, i'm australian
Oh, dude chat's gonna have fun with that one. Um, that's bullshit. Do you know what uncle ben's like the the food is?
All right, then
I will say he does yes, um riding prejudice was a bad representation of the truth
Bad representation of the truth. I don't know what that means
now like pride and prejudice honestly has some of the most honest depictions of
The human condition basically like the characters in pride and prejudice are phenomenal
And one of the she one of the things that jane austin does better than anyone else
And I guess this is your everyone has their own perspective on how they approach it, but she writes stupid people
So well, like really really well unbelievable. It's it's actually really impressive
It's good stuff. I mean you should you should watch the bbc pride and prejudice. It's a long one more about I mean
I of course enjoy the action movies far more and everything and when it comes to
Stuff like that. I generally need to put in effort to appreciate it
But when I do I can absolutely see the value in it and how good it is like pride and prejudice is pretty phenomenal
Um uncle ben offered captain marvel a ride and wished for a smile so she killed him and stole his car
I mean
If it sets up that she's an antagonist, I am on board
Yes, spider-man now knows who he has to hunt down. Let's do it
Spider-man is a brand not a character thoughts
It could be both it could be both
I was gonna say brand kind of like is almost can be birthed from a popular character kind of like
Yeah, brands be birthed from pretty much anything
I think to a certain degree is correct because like it's it's like shad was saying I think there's a certain point where you
Do have to have like a requirement in order for something to be something
Like, you know, you can't have spaghetti without the actual goddamn spaghetti
Thank you. So and I think that comes to
like
the brand
But then it depends on how one is defining spaghetti is it not
but
Generally when it comes to that individuals don't get to say that it's determined by a general consensus of what spaghetti is
True, but we've already seen a lot of disagreement on what makes spider-man fundamentally spider-man
I don't know. I'm willing to argue the fundamental points like, you know, some of the arguments that wasn't top hats
mr. Sir
Was saying was that you know, we're actually byproducts of his fundamental character and stuff
And I think look if I was ever have a chat with him, I reckon he would agree with me then
These are strong points that can be established
Perhaps I don't doubt your abilities
Oh, thank you
Uh uncle ben would have been able to fight off the mugger back in but back in the 90s a horrible stranger did permanent damage
To his hand back when uncle ben went by his old nickname of the dawn
a lot of law here
We aren't covering some some deep truths here gosh
Hi rags. I have a feeling I gosh. I have a feeling that it wasn't a spider that actually bit peter parker. It was a brie larcen
I was gonna say it was a don
Don becomes a spider now jeez, that's gonna take a road map to explain
No, no, he was a vampire that's being hunted in the new
Blade trilogy that was became radioactive when he fell into an experiment and then bit smart. He fell into an experiment
Great power comes great. Whoops a dude
Uh
Hi rags, even though you're absent today
He'd appreciate that the star wars saga is like a ship carrying two crates of gold
And one of silver being torpedoed twice and sinking to the bottom of the mariana trench
All right, two crates of gold and one of silver what do you think that represents he's referring to the three, um the ot
Yeah, the ot movies i'd say and it's actually great one is good and they're just destroyed. I would say that's my my guess
Yeah, i'm no massive but a kit kat's a kit kat. That is true. Dr martin luther pepe
Abe lincoln vampire hunter has an intentionally misleading title was panned for no comedy
Even though it was based on the on a writing game of a writing game of bad titles a serious story
I didn't I never saw that film. Did they actually take it seriously? He was a vampire hunter?
Yeah, yeah, i've actually watched it
You'd think they would they would go the joke route with that wouldn't they why wouldn't they?
Oh
It's a bit tongue-in-cheek with the way they go about it like the seriousness has played up so much where it's obviously not serious
kind of thing
Um, but there's not like gags and jokes and stuff happening all around
How much money do I have to give you before you'll tell my friend to stop sending me
Yeah, what do you have against me maybe I want him to continue sending you those things how do those things get past
Super chat restrictions you'd think they would not allow that. I don't know
Would you rather revert history so that the sequel star wars movies can never be made or erase kathleen and ryan from existence?
And ensure they will never damage another film again
I feel like if they don't someone else will
Oh gosh
It could have been so good
Yeah
To stop them from damaging more or erase the damage they've done
In both scenarios more damage could happen
Yeah, but if you erase the movies and that meant that what better movies could have been made in their place like
What type of director do you need to make for them to have made a better movie than what ryan johnson did?
I don't know. It's all like the ot was complete. They don't need to make more
But I get the idea that more is fun because it's a good thing and I mean
Like that you have the original expanded universe and to my knowledge. I haven't read any of it
But the report is that it's full of great stuff
And so, you know, they had a massive pool of resources to draw upon but no they wanted it all
Disney fight
Yeah, it just kind of seems like it's a quit while you're ahead scenario stop while it's good, you know
You either die the hero or live long enough to see yourself become the villain
Essentially, it's not like self-fulfilling
It's like of course because
What about someone who becomes a villain then becomes a hero again? Hmm. What about that? Oh, they they go exactly that's my story
Villain free trial
Uh, where are the doggies well wolf did actually pop in uh rags has got a very bad throat, um for what I understood and used them
Giving it some time to heal over slash rest. So is that what we're calling it now? That's what we're calling it. Uh
Isn't this getting into subjectivity because you expect a hero to be moral, but what is moral?
I find assaulting people immoral, but legal eagle doesn't
I can't remember enough of legal eagle's argument, but did he actually say at some point that
It was not necessarily legal but still bad
Well, his his argument was like he's scrumpled her paper
Which gives her enough reason to engage self-defense to the degree of what she does in the in the scene
Which is no that's like no to any reasonable jury
You'd be like this is insane and he'd be like well by definition. It's not you'd be like, okay
Okay
Can we please never talk about spider-man again, I think it'll be some time before we talk about him again
He's a goodman, but we need to recharge our sploder batteries, but yes
I mean he's not gonna get another movie now for at least like two or three years. So
We'll have time to have a good spider-man. Come on
What's what what's wrong with them? I think they're just great. They just
Too much sputum
Need some sputum and rechargeings
Hey chat, i'm gonna go get some wings y'all want anything? I I
I don't know if anyone had asked good wings the other day. All right good wings
Uh, there's a movie that is just about a group of people kicking puppies
There is no inconsistency in the film, but no one likes the characters
Yeah, that would be possible
I agree
You should have one of them kick slightly less puppies and so by comparison we're like that's the good guy he's a
That one
Yeah, and you could say it is objectively not as bad as the other version as well by having a point of a new point of
comparison even
He kicked less puppies than that version
Yep
So it is not as bad
But then someone's like but what if the puppies are evil and then there's like this whole prequel film where the puppies like killed a bunch
of children evil puppies then that's yeah a whole other thing that creates a whole new thing
Ignore the previous super chat. Please talk about spider-man again. I gave you more money
Well, we did so
Get me some peanut butter wings peanut butter wings
What the hell are they saying like saute wings? I do not know
Their follow-up super chat says you heard me peanut butter
All right
Uh interpret that as saute now i'm gonna have to see if that's a thing at some point
I don't want to stay up
What kind of sauce I think that might have been referenced to the uh spaghetti bolognese
Maybe i'm not sure
That's possibly one of the major world building problems in black panther
I'm writing a story where I take wakanda and turn it into something that makes more sense
I'm pretty sure I outlined them in my video
Go check that out
magical rock
therefore
Equates to insane advanced technology. I've never been able to talk to you about this
So I got called racist and a white colonist sort of thing because I don't know any reference outside of my british
heritage that I complained that they didn't spread their um
Their culture and their people further than they actually did like in black panther
Their logic is that they stopped after they
Conquered like the surrounding four tribes like the main tribe
And then they just yeah, and it's like
And I was like, why wouldn't you expand?
Yeah, the reference is as soon as you have a greater population then the land that you have control over can support
Expansion always is a result
Yeah, and they were like, of course you think that way because you're european and I was like, I don't I think that's just intrinsic you would want
Background kids, sorry. It's okay
My literal logic was like, okay
So you have like a house and then you're like, oh we've got like loads of people
They're having trouble fitting this house. Maybe we build another house next to this house
So we we've now extended our border by a little bit and you just keep doing that over time
Which they started in the stone age, dude
Like they would have they would have had time to spread let's just say
Yeah
And in the past you actually needed far more farmland to support
A certain number of people than what we do now because we have advanced technology and we can get far more out of you
know farming techniques and land, you know
stuff and if you thought that your culture was the like most moral and superior you probably would want to
Expand to prevent others from like encroaching and partially
Taking over well, I mean and not only that I mean this this is a whole another subject him always
We can't go into this much but there you can
Objectively judge certain cultures based on certain conditions like for instance human sacrifice. I would say that's bad
I'm not a fan of that personally that has
Human sacrifice has a very negative element at least if not is wholly repulsive on you know
You couldn't find positive things
But still just because it's of another culture and you know
They raise that way that doesn't excuse that as being very bad
So yes, that's what i'll say on that and then trial by combat for the most advanced civilization in history is retarded
It's tradition more it's tradition that was the thing people were like you keep saying it's bad when it says it just
I was like i'm making fun of their tradition. I'm saying it's dumb
There's some things we give up on our traditions. Okay, like sometimes we're like, you know what this thing not so good
Uh, there are so many people saying that they needed something to read after harry potter ended and twilight was there
That has nothing to do with storytelling. It just happened to come out at the right time
Nah, I don't agree with that. Um twilight has some very essential like it like actual elements in it that appeal
very strongly to certain demographics
Um, yeah, like there's a reason why it was popular so popular and it wasn't just its release date
I honestly didn't even realize that it was released at that point
Like I and it's not only that it was popular for a very long period of time
There were spaces gaps of time in between each release of each book, right?
And it maintained its popularity and increased with each release of the book
culminating in the movies which then skyrocketed even further all these things do not coincide with
You know the release of harry potter
Uh, hello gentlemen, sorry i'm late where is rags? Oh, we've he's a bit ill let's put it that way
Now why are we talking about spider-man game of thrones season eight episode five and unbridled rage is coming out
I know it's on the that's true. We can talk about spooderman up till then
Although I don't really know why we discussed spooderman it's and and really cared about it
It's just uh, it's for kids and it's got space
space webman
Why why why should we love him? He's a he's a web man
What is your opinion on the channel history buffs? I think i've seen some of his videos
Yeah, i've seen some of his videos love what i've seen i've given him a shout out on my channel
I know some people take issue with certain historical facts that he shares down then
I mean he covers a lot of history that i'm not familiar with like, of course
My area of interest is medieval, you know there and so whenever he's talking about anything napoleonic, um,
Like 18th century before after different cultures i'm nowhere near as informed
And so it's hard for me to say this is good and this is bad, but I think it has great work
Fair enough. I think i've seen some of his videos. Like I said, is he does he have like an animated intro sometimes?
Yeah, yep, nick hodges. I believe good old nick
um
I'm watching efap when i'm suddenly a massive I didn't ask for this
And thank you all masses for making a two-hour drive every day other day
Man, this is pretty evident that i'm falling
To a different dimension right now with my brain i'm watching efap when i'm suddenly a massive. I didn't ask for this
Also, thank you all your masses for making a two-hour drive every other week entertaining
Well, if you're doing it two hours
Every the per two weeks i'm not even sure you can actually keep up with efap at that rate
I'd be interested to see if that's possible actually, but yay good stuff. I hope you enjoy it
Uh, hey mola, would you be open to giving notes for short slash feature scripts for a price?
I need a hypercritical massive to scrutinize my script cheers
um, i'm one of the people that basically says an all-around
no, because I don't know how to pick and choose it in a way that
Uh would be fair and I wouldn't want to charge for it because uh
Then it would be like the person who pays the most gets and i'd be like, oh no
I don't want to be in that position
So I tend to just say no, I don't even do it with friends stuff
Typically, like if someone's like I made a video tell me what's wrong with it. I'll be like, oh no
Do it
Yeah, my consultancy rate is like a hundred dollars an hour minimum
Is that a thing you actually do?
Uh, no
I don't know. That sounded kind of reasonable to me. I don't know
Well, yeah
It's a matter of time and that's the issue
And and thing is though because things are going so well for me at the moment if I was to try and break up
The income i've been able to produce recently into an hourly rate
It would be pretty tough to
Now i'm not
Loaded don't get me wrong, but things are going pretty good
And so if I was to say all right, if you need to want to divert my attention to something else on
Separate to the projects that I want to work on that will yeah produce a good return to me
well
What is the what incentive is it for me to help and I do try and do this on my channel on occasion?
Just invite it and do it as a you know
Just help the community and stuff like that, but separate to the times when I can devote time to it
Yeah, it becomes difficult
Uh, i'm curious on your opinion on mary jane if the character doesn't act like mary jane or look like mary jane
Why was she called mary jane instead of making a new character and expanding the universe?
Uh to try and bank on the recognition of her name. I can't imagine many other reasons
You can because they only went they only called it mj
It's like so they weren't even confident enough to do that yet
They didn't why did they even call it mj like have you heard about like the legal issues they have?
with uh
Is a is a video that I got directed to a couple times from midnight's edge that goes over the um the troubles that
Essentially that it's this is a really bad explanation that i'm gonna do because i'm very tired and I can't remember the video fully
But I think the idea is something like if ever they take any character or do anything specific with someone that isn't dramatically different
then um
Those characters don't get frozen for sony
As in any character that appears in the tom holland versions can't be used ever by sony in separate visions because they're like tied to
the mcu oh
Interesting and so they have to make them different enough
Or they don't have them at all. I think was the logic
Yeah, so you know that might explain it from um another point of view
Or like I said, they could just be doing it to be like hey remember this one you guys come see this movie
You like this character come on
It's also in his fault confirmed
And disney they're all evil
Down with the corporations
Down there go i'm gonna go ahead and call it for tonight. I've got shit to do in the morning. Very well, sir
pleasure, sir
dasbo
Yes, you as well. Sorry. Sorry. I I don't swear just as a matter of you know
Principles, it's hard to say your name in fullness. You can call me gavin
Gavin awesome. That's that's a great name
I love it
Thanks. Gavin. It's been sweet
Thank you, uh, we'll uh, see y'all next time. See you dude picking out. Gotcha
Yeah, see you next time
That leaves me glad i'm yeah, i'm actually glad i'm here more
If you left I would probably have to take the discord thing off the strings who would knock me out of the call
Eventually, which means it wouldn't be a displayable thing
About that i'm gonna have to speed this these descriptions up because otherwise
I'm gonna have to face that horrible result. Otherwise
Are you guys theorizing about a theoretical discussion you could theoretically have that's the best kind of discussion
That's high tier right there
What is the worst movie you've ever seen?
Ooh
It was funny uh, bea wolf talks about this for a while we think turbidator genesis is still worse than uh, the last jedi
Really see that it like yeah, it does a better job of destroying its franchise like tlj was pretty good
It was pretty good. Did a good job. I I appreciate like I high five fried johnson. You did well, man
Like you you did well, but you didn't do terminator genesis. Well, they deleted terminator one and two. Can you do that?
Can you delete the ot?
Not to mention dude turning john connor into a terminator how much more insulting can you get it's like yeah, okay
that happens
Yeah, I could see your point. I can see your point. I like I just don't I don't have nearly as much nostalgic attachment to
terminated to be able to
understand the
Insult the travesty that is genesis as a result
I mean, I feel like we're getting another bout of that with this dark fate thing off to see what they do
Oh dear. Oh dear indeed
Hey fringy watch the recent cosmoronic with wolf good to see the australians and the incels talking
I'm sure you would appreciate that
Well, I like your content a lot started watching you with captain marvel been watching your other videos
And it's been helping me think more objectively when watching movies and on my own writing keep up the good shit
Thank you, sir. Good stuff. That's a phenomenal compliment. Actually
If we any way that you can help someone think more objectively then that's awesome
Yeah, and uh, yeah, I hope it can lead to better things. Obviously, that would be a great results if if we get to that point
um
Because my god, it'd be nice to get some great movies that are mainstream again, you know
Just give it a few decades. We'll get there
Yeah, here's some rhino milk money. I hope you've had a great sunday. It's been an eventful sunday to say the least
Um, uh, I'd absolutely say it's been a fun one
Uh, oh, it's been awesome
Help gf wants to adopt. Oh help gf wants to adopt orphans wolf. How did your parents raise you without telling you they hate you?
Jk, love y'all. Hi rags watch later on boomer
There's a lot in that
Hi metal. I see you in chat
Uh question for fringy or shad do aussies have health bars above their heads like all the animals and insects in australia do
Oh, yeah, absolutely. How's yours looking? I mean
Mine's pretty good. Okay. I'm i'm looking pretty safe still in the green still in the green
So in the green not gone yellow yet. That's good
Yep, all right. We're good. We're good
Finally made alive. You're all breathtaking. Oh
Finally able to catch a live efap. Nice to see everyone today
I would like to know what you guys think about monster hunter world and the iceborne info coming out if you've seen it
Rags is best algo. I've not seen the information but I loved monster underworld and I really should have played more of it
I just haven't had the time
You know, that's exactly the same. I played it a bit enjoyed it didn't get enough
Didn't wasn't able to build momentum to just keep going and then I got distracted and wasn't able to pick it up again
But man, yeah, i'd recommend it if you like monster hunter on
Other platforms. It was a godsend for me because the last time I played it was like
Over a thousand hours on psp, which is
You know, everything is downgraded and then you go to pc where it's just oh my god
Yes
Maybe miss dragons.com
I haven't seen it
But unless there were there was a console involved and no fancy interfaces or pop-ups then no, it would have been a complete
It would have been complete garbage
Not sure what that's referencing
Yeah, I don't know either
Thor is completely different from the comics where he went from stoic to joking does that mean thor isn't a good adaptation?
Even if it's liked more
I would need to have a more familiar understanding of the source material thor is yeah
Uh nowhere near as familiar with thor spider-man was always one of the bigger, you know, um comic book characters I enjoyed
And like I said, it's not impossible to improve upon the source material
Uh, it's it's always going to be more difficult the better the source material is
Um because it's very hard to you know improve on sheep affection that what that is spider-man
Kidding, but yes, I don't I just i'm not as familiar with thor
Yeah, and I have no idea what he's like in the comics
But um, I know that there were fans of his first two movies that were upset with ragnarok
So like hey, this isn't thor. This is some joker
Oh, yeah, um has rich evans has rich evans an objectively angelic face. Yes, I can
Yes, confidently spider get a molar here
Dang it. I already bought wings not spaghetti. All right, a lot of food stuff here
Tell you what when you're in the mood a spaghetti bolognese is just they can hit the spot so well
Uh, this food analogy doesn't work
If you get the order you didn't ask for you send it back if you eat it anyway knowing it's different
You have to judge it for what it is
Yeah, but to make the analogy more comparable you can't send a movie back to get it fixed
and so
Like I suppose you could walk out and get your money or yeah
like
Um, if only we could if only we could ryan johnson remake this piece of crap right now
I thought the tlg was gonna be it man. I thought it was like this is the movie
It's so bad and so important that they'll remake it. It's gonna be this one. I was like, no they didn't know
They had a chance
Aliens is my favorite movie, but it's a mediocre alien movie. It's a fantastic action movie, but it lacks the terror that the original portrays
What do you think shad
I think um, there's a very different tone between aliens one and two aliens two had a much greater kind of action
element to it that
Personally, I enjoyed more than aliens one and I personal thing i'm not a big fan of horrors
And so the horror tone of aliens one was like, you know, still great movie
Don't get me wrong, but yeah, I really enjoyed aliens two so much more. I love them both
I prefer aliens and it's because I
Cared a lot more about the characters. That's usually what made me like fall in love with that film and I loved the uh
The journeys everyone goes on and it was the film that made me love rippley as a character as well
Uh, not that I didn't like her in in the first one. It's just that it's
It's very much a uh, you know
They're taken down one by one by an alien and that we don't get a lot of character for all of them
Not to say they're bad in any way stretch of the imagination. I just um
Connected more in the second one, but the first one is absolutely way more of a horror
While the second one is much more of an action film. I wouldn't agree with that. I still found the aliens to be quite um
Terrifying in their own way in aliens like when they oh, yeah when they come out of the walls in the first like action sequence
It's just like oh jesus
I know where they're like they're coming in this rounding is like where are they where and then they like walked through what the roof of
the floor like holy crap
Like yeah, there's some great, you know
like uh
beats in the in the second
Wow
Sounds uh
Look at batman who laughs where he uses a gun batman who laughs
Is this an example of a
Deviation from what the character is that's so far in which you would say it's not the
I guess yeah people tend to say he doesn't use a gun, right? Is that a thing that batman does not?
Yeah, that's a big thing about batman
Yeah, and it's generally tied to his emotional scarring from the death of his parents
right
But there could be a scenario in which he is forced to use one. Yes
yeah, there is or well, um in the beginning of the batman beyond series to explain batman's retirement he's getting old and he starts to
get beaten by these villains and
Um just because he can't manage it anymore and he actually picks up a gun and points it at them and they get scared and run
away and then he like looks at the gun in horror and realizes I can't do this anymore. It's pushing me too far and uh
So there's a great example of using
Exploring something that a character would generally never do to help, you know
Progress the story in a different direction a new direction and stuff. So it can be done when done, right? Of course. Yeah
Uh, what about batman white knight?
I don't know. I don't know. That is just finish stranger things three gotta say i'm pretty disappointed not all bad
But i'd like to hear some in-depth thoughts within the next
Wait some in-depth thoughts for the next 25 years that he plans to make a video series loosely
It's on my list
But my list is really long and each thing takes ages
but yeah, I actually really did want to make a video on how season two destroyed everything but
um
I'd want I wouldn't want to make that without making a season one video first
To set up what was there to be destroyed. So
That would take a while to get both of them done. And yeah, so maybe one day no promises
Uh batman didn't kill anyone in the dark knight returns fringy joker commits suicide to frame him for murder
But he never killed himself even calling the guns weapons of cowards
My son agrees there you go
Okay, here we go. The shadiversity the blessed swordsman. There is a super chat apparently directed to you. So I shall uh, well
Well, I I gift it to you more
But I do very much appreciate the the sentiment. Thank you very much
Thank you both, I guess
uh
MCU spider-man is iron man's little sidekick
That way
I mean
I can see why people are led towards that opinion. I don't think he properly fulfills what a sidekick is supposed to be to
Honestly call him a real sidekick
I think it would have to appear in an iron man movie to help it, you know assist, you know
Iron man through his whole thing and stuff
um
Sorry, I wouldn't go that far but I get
the argument people say that a lot of his
independent seems to be undermined by his
Adherent and desire to please tony stark. I get that I get that
Uh, so in 30 years when there's a million mcu spider-man movies, it'll be the true spider-man
It's very possible
If they're all consistently depicting a new version of spider-man
Uh
An example of a story where batman kills and stays true to the spirit of batman is thomas wanes batman in flashpoint
Both bruce and thomas are batman because they both fight for what they lost
Yeah, very i'm i'm i'm i've got no reference i'm sorry less familiar with dc
like real like
Growing up. I was always very marvel. Um, and there's a decent number of dc comics. I have enjoyed but
In comparison, it's very small
or fringled the froggled I will
Make a note of that as well for mr. Fring
Uh, get on with it tired of spider-man. Oh, man, I feel bad for that guy
I'm unfortunately, it's dinnertime and i'm needing to get the dinner ready for the kids more. I I feel
Heartbroken that I have to abandon you to be alone. It is. All right
I wouldn't have I wouldn't want to take this much time from you. I've already
Had much more of a of an audience than ever would be deserved, but I appreciate uh, how much time you spent honestly
It has been such a pleasure. Thanks mate. And until next time i'll see you later. Very well
See ya
Which leaves me on my lonesome
um
I think this code gives you like two minutes in the call before it boots you out
So i'm gonna see if I can grab metal. He was in chat a second ago. I don't know if he's in work or whatever
If so, i'm just gonna pull discord off the screen. It's
Not gonna be too much of a problem
Um, the high other person mal you free
You can trust your tisms
Homes all right, it's happening i'm gonna use
metal
You guys know him. He was in the uh
defab gaming
Done and done
If he answers the call of course
Consult chat
Give me a minute. All right, hopefully it'll it'll it'll he'll he'll sort out eventually. Um
until then
um
Chat, I know you're playing devil's advocate
But the argument is weak on the basis that spider pig is a thing literally anything could be a spider man
Damn, that would have been a good question
I'll put it in like a thing. Hopefully I can ask him sometime
I find spider pig amusing. I'm assuming that's the one from into the spider verse, right? He was a pig
I
That's the extent of my memory
Uh, where do you get your film footage? How do you edit making vid reviewing shit films?
There's amazing starting with transformers 2 and know nothing about vids
Uh, you can rip them from like actual ones
you can um
There's a lot of different sources you can get films from obviously a lot of people
Um, this is what I used to do all the time was youtube videos
Just the you can almost find full videos of clips or at least the most significant parts of movies typically are on youtube
and clips
Just download them
And uh, that'd work pretty good
So, uh, that's what I'd recommend
uh
All that I suppose
Um in case it disconnects me and looks weird, I guess I'll also take this off. Oh, i'm good for now
Yeah, just join the oh there you are. Hello. Let's join call. There we go
How do you do?
I am doing already
How sorry guys he's jim and can you do your mind apologizing please
I'm sorry
for for the things
Uh, i've got i've got super chats to read and then I can all right possibly consider sleeping. I probably won't
Sleep is for the week is what i've heard
Can you confirm this? Obviously
I can confirm this
I I had a
nine hour trip back
From the wedding slash vacation yesterday and I had a appointment at eight eight o'clock this morning
And I hated every single second of it
Was it was it to discover if you have the big gay?
Uh, yes, and what was the result?
It's super gay like the massives
Well, oh that must have hurt for anybody listening to this. Sorry. I knocked my microphone
Um, why would you why why would you do that?
Well hatred is expressed in many forms. That is my that's my comment on that. Um, I agree
Help me settle the debate
They ever everyone said hello, so I said hello back. Oh, yeah, this is metal
He played a game with us once on efap. It was a thing
And we played more games
Other times that is true
Um
Right, so help me settle a debate who would win captain marvel or a fully fledged fully armed death star. It was captain marvel
It's not really the tick
You would definitely win i'm still on the ticker. It was so good
Villad you faced the tick the tick
Um, that was so great so sad it's cancelled tom holland is the amazing night monkey
I would watch it
I'll say it comic peter is a simple character with one motivating answer to all situations. Uncle ben
The mcu peter is the opposite. He learns to be better rather than referring to one experience
Your lucky shadow's gone by the time I read that out
Though chat will still come after you shorter short shorter froman shorter froman
Somebody toucha my spaghet somebody actually like super chatted that
All right, nice thoughts on the card thoughts on the star trek franchise
I haven't watched any of it. I'm the wrong person to ask i'm afraid
I saw the trailer yesterday by by chance. Did you hate it? I don't know
I he's a thing. I i'm not a star trek fan
So I can't tell if it's like super cringe or it's going to be a neat little last hurrah
well
That looks kind of it looks like an action movie like the new star trek movies
And that's not what I
Connect with just picturing like this is like the ancient, you know
Patrick stewart like ah, he's like driving around all these like super expensive lasers like flying everywhere. He's like, oh i've got this
Well, yeah
characters in there that I saw data is back it's like, I don't know is that is that good will people like this?
I can't tell I have no idea. I think uh, nude rottach will be covering the shit out of it
I'll just get my my star trek feed from him because I I don't know anything about it
But i'm very very much considering
Basically going through all of star trek because I keep hearing about it, man
I keep hearing about how bad the new ones are and it's like, you know what?
I want to know how bad they are by watching the old ones
Um, my dad recently watched star trek. I think what was he watching?
At the time I was home. I think it was voyager
It's just like
Need to watch I guess. I mean, I don't know if I would watch it all the way through
But I know if you want to want someone to watch it with you, I would be down I guess
Well, we'll consider it. We didn't get through game of thrones, but maybe star trek will be the one
well
Who was lucky there? I was
You got me there
Uh as a spiderman fan who doesn't read who doesn't read every comic and someone who loves mysterious villain
I feel far from home as the best iteration of the character
Oh
Apparently I can't super chat from firefox anymore. Damn
When they turned spiderman into a latinx bisexual they also changed his name
Why bother if there's no objective problem leaving it as it is the scope for your objectivity is artistically constrained?
um
I you haven't highlighted why you just said it's true. So rip
Um, if you're gonna highlight third-party content as your reasoning for why it's a bad then you're not remaining objective to the primary content
It's kind of what we always said
And if you don't uh remain consistent to that you're gonna find a lot more issues with a lot more different properties and you'll find
Arguments like well that one doesn't count because that one's not as old that one doesn't count
Because that one's not as well understood in terms of its legacy content or you know
How it has to maintain the spirit of the character and then that gets very complicated as to what that even means
Um, a lot of people disagree on what needs to be maintained. So
Yeah, I tend to throw the entire argument out in terms of when we're judging this the writing for what it is
uh
We consider it within itself and then obviously extend that to continuity
So like sequels prequels universe that sort of thing
But um, I would never disregard how important it may be for the expected audience
Reaction like if I was making the film
Almost like should we have this character from the comic and completely ruin what they're supposed to be in the comic?
I'd be like that's probably not a great idea guys. I don't know about that
I'm gonna piss off a lot of people. I don't know if that's worth it
Um, sorry, but shad is 100 correct a what-if scenario is convenient can be applied to anything
I mean, what if scenarios expose weaknesses?
So shad would do it with other people and we would do it with other people too
It's a it's a good way to figure out principles validity validity of principles
weird
Alita battle angel is a poor adaption
Yeah wolf managed to get uh to talk about that in the beginning of the 45
I think it was this is 45
Words are too hard. They escaped me marvel was legally required to change spider-man due to the deal with sony
This is why I don't like the adaptation argument. Not all marvel's fault
Well, yeah, I got to talk to shed about that so
Can pass along that video that sort of goes over it
Mr. Freeze from batman
Tas is a horrible adaptation of the original vision from the comics
But because he was such a well-written character tas vision has become the set standard for him in general
Which means would one argue he was poorly written on release until enough time passed and he became well written
It's kind of the issue for me as well. Is that if it was well written it is there's no
Time shouldn't be the one that changes it
um
But perhaps there's a flaw there that I haven't seen yet
Uh, the my adaption argument makes no sense to me as even in the comic there's a bunch of different versions of spider-man and peter himself
Uh, there's different justifications like as shadow's pointing out the um
The majority of the works is I think what he said
Ignorant analogies don't make shad wrong
All right. What about non-ignorant analogies? When will you learn? When will you learn your actions have consequences?
Now that's a reference to a certain sonic fan
Stop supporting garbage cinema
Hello shad, have you read stormlight archive?
When are we getting the man of steel bvs ephaps they're on the way and i'm gonna save this question for shad
Hopefully I can get it to him one day
But the awkward thing is like you realize that me wolfen rags when we do that
We're not going to be arguing from like why they betrayed
Batman's character from the comics because we have not read the comics. So i'm interested to see why
I mean, we'll just be talking about the films themselves. Hopefully that's what you guys are expecting
I don't know if you're expecting us to talk about the comics of superman because
I mean most of us can't even read so
Be able to achieve such problem
The entire third act is a consequence to peter interfering with the sting operation
The vulture decides to go for the big score because he learns iron man spider-man and the fbi are after him now
Peter then has to fix this on his own because he no longer has tony's suit
The reason that vulture was not caught was his fault and he has to fix it by himself
That's actually something I didn't manage to mention that that sting takes place because of peter's interactions with him on the uh
berry
But yes, uh, yo just dropping in gotta go to work though. I hope you have fun, sir
The teacher not being assertive is what the sjw's want. This is their pre-plan and history has followed
This is the two sides of an ambiguous coin
All right
In spider-man 2 he's in college and dealing with real life
He will naturally have more consequences than he will in high school
Well, that's the thing about saying he should have money problems in high school
It's like it's a little bit harder for him to have money problems when he's um of that age and I think that
Once he grows up out of high school, they're probably going to be bringing in a lot of those
money problems and stuff depending on how they're going to separate him from
the sort of uh
Stark fortune i'm curious how we're going to do that if they're going to do that, but they might not so we shall see
Um a lot of people in chat keep saying they want me to go to sleep. I gotta finish this first guys. It's a commitment
That's when does that happen? I don't yes
Morla here's a few bucks in advance if you guys ever do talk about Godzilla movie on this channel big
Thanks for all the content you produce
No pro blamo and as for talking about Godzilla
I think we plan to do an efap movies on one of the godzillas at some point
That'll happen at least
Uh every sense with captain marvel has tremendous stakes
She can kill anyone at any time. So even a meal is life and death. Thus captain marvel has the best story
Every scene with captain marvel I see all right
And I understand I never liked spider-man
He was a wuss from the beginning and is so whiny and annoying. This is for the Godzilla potential
This is like a start of memes. We're going to talk about Godzilla. I don't know where that came from
um
Speaking of narration in book adaptations
I'd like to highlight rorschach's journal monologues in watchmen because I believe they are so well done
I remember what you're talking about. Yeah
I need to see that movie again
I need to read the the novel vision though though first to understand if it's terrible or not as a lot of people say
I haven't been able to stand high tops content for a while. Glad you're covering him. Also tell wolf. He's a massive awesome
Massive orphan for me. He's already fully aware of that
also, i'm nearly releasing the
expanded universe lore for efap number one on that jstream onto the moolah channel like
I finished rendering it last night
It's like I have a secondary project running every time I get like overwhelmed by the primary one
And that's the one that I took a million years to finally finish
But that'll be coming out
It'll be great
And finally people will understand the orphan memes a bit better. I think
It's confirmed sm2 greater than homecoming and ffh
If you say so
Okay, then according to your logic that new girl 007 is going to be better than craig's regardless of the adaptation of the books
I don't know that
So the craig one is the same continuity if you're gonna you can make an argument that they're not supposed to be
um
Email if it matches something in the universe, you can make the argument that
She's supposed to have a different codename or she's not supposed to share names based on evidence again in the continuity
But yeah, you could have a female 007 that is a well-written story just because she's a girl doesn't mean it can't be well written
But I don't know enough about bond to know
What they might be breaking in a potential girl bond film and I don't even know that that's what they're doing
I can't remember. Uh what the plan was
but
Yeah, it's possible
It was possible for the ghostbusters 1016 movie to be good. It just
It was unlikely and they did not achieve it
Well efap outlasted my earphones
See you guys. Goodbye
a
villain in sm1 threat peters threatened peters beloved ones peters beat the shit out of him villain homecoming threatened peters beloved ones peters started sweating
I mean
Peter doesn't even let him die
Peter and homecoming has different values. I suppose
Are they better or worse is the question
Fringy, they did use authentic. They said it wasn't historically accurate. It was authentic instead
Which is a bit of a reach that battlefield five is authentic
But I suppose that could come down to how we all define the word authentic
complicated
Shad the japanese navy used the katana in place of the saber used it by many western navies during world war two
I would assume he's aware of that. If not, um
I well, yeah again, I would have thought you would be
Uh a shy nerd would have problems taking girls out the movie he's saying yet here and he is not shy
Noisy acting like a nerd. He's an
Asta stock hipster
Atta stock. Oh wait, is that supposed to be autistic and it's felt weird. I don't know either way. Um, he still has trouble
He's still shy
Uh, please address disney's casting of the little mermaid. Um, I don't know what the hell they're doing but
I don't know what the hell their plan is with live action movies. I don't know
If there's a consistency to it
They all like how is that even a work the little mermaid is like she's like the only real thing and the rest was just like
Animated ocean and stuff. Melissa McCarthy is Ursula. That's just funny. I don't know man
I don't know what the hell's going on. I don't want to watch any of those films
I saw that clip from the lion king and it's like oh my god. Why why is everything horrible?
Why is everything horrible?
I'm so confused though. Those are happening anyways, like
It's not like they did one and then another one the next year
It's like all of them just like boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. It's like when did they make this?
Yeah, they went kind of crazy with it
Midnight's edge says the mcu spider-man needed to have characters from spider-man to be significantly different from the comics because of rights issues
between sony and marvel so they had to change mj
I wonder if that affects the argument for um
Those those sort of people or not. I don't mean that derogatory. I'm just curious
Uh metal suit was given in the comics from tony. We did bring that up
Hi. Hello
Uh, the thing about there being a true spider-man is that it's a title that changes hands frequently
It'll be more productive to argue the traits of peter parker and how they mix with the persona
Yeah, like shad said was the majority of the works is uh kind of what he went with
Um a great discussion with no passive aggressive comments or personal jabs. Yeah rags must be gone. Oh
That's mean
Sure rags would have been just the nice man. He would have been just a nice man. Hi mauler. Hello avenger
When he said everything is fine. He meant peter didn't change. She is the same from beginning to end
I disagree
So I disagree with that still
Hey mauler just catching up now
But I just wanted to say I started watching buffy and it seems like power rangers but with better characters
well
I hope it gets to a point where you consider it better than that. Hopefully by the end of season two
You'll be enjoying it more. We shall see
The sequels confirms he didn't change
Yeah, that's not something I agree with either
um
There's a lot of detail in the journey peter goes on and uh,
I think we've got to discuss today people disagree people agree
It's dependent on a lot of elements and how you may or may not interpret them. I felt our
sort of
goals of explaining his journey was more supported by the dialogue than not but
I'd have to see far from home again
On the good old clean tisms to be able to see stuff
Mauler before you finish that game of thrones season eight five rage grab a joint beer or some benadryl and consider your beautiful
Shots and themes the themes
Maybe I do have a theme in that video
Maybe if you spot it you'll get a birthday cake. I shouldn't make that promise i'm gonna be held to it
Could you have an objectively good romcom predator?
um
I guess it could be consistent, but it would be uh, quite bizarre to deliver that to the public
I'd like to see how they'd react to it though
Uh, did you hear about dr. Strange multiverse of madness? It's supposed to be a horror type movie. I like that idea
Yeah, when I found out it was horror. I was super interested and apparently scarlet witches in it. So
That shall be interesting
Okay, so this is then efap 45
It's like a whole slew of welcome. So welcome back all. Hi wolf
Speaking of reading manga you guys should read jojo bizarre adventure manga slash anime fair enough. I'm just here to annoy wolf
I'm sure he appreciated it
Machiculations hitler was overrated. How did hey?
Hey
Wolf welcome back you massive condolences on the loss of your friend all hail efap and the brood long may it rain
long may it rain indeed
By wolf, uh, what about matriculation sword dragons?
I mean i'm pretty sure those will be in shad's book
How could they not be?
Wolf i'm aware that giving you this towards your pizza addiction is enabling but I won't tell if you won't
We'll make a note
Uh
Walla fellow my favorite massive in my opinion frogled make more videos molesler. How is fester? Oh, he's good
He's good. I I make sure to ask him regularly don't like him to feel alone praise theoden
Wait praise the dawn not theoden
I'm, okay. We're praising both of them. But yes the dawn gets preference
Shad's book is a bad ripoff of fern gully. I think he saw that one. We managed to talk about it. I think
Uh wolf is a massive closeted fur fag also. Hi mauler. Yeah, hi and
Yeah
Far from home is a rewritten iron man 3 angry stark employee
Yeah, I agree with that revenge plot using his tech
Uh, well, it was their tech in the case of both films
You know the regenerating stuff and then uh his illusions dumb character shit
I mean that could apply to basically any mcu film depending on what your thing is for that bad comedy again
I don't really know what you mean bad science. I don't know that any of the mcu films have like super accurate science
What if they're enough?
Shad is a cutie saying there's no time travel
uh
I'm not going to confirm that I don't want to smash your dreams, but i'm going to say that
It's a maybe
A maybe you already smashed multiple dreams of mine. So I can take it by now sweet
Wolf your poll was confusing jill and hole made me gay, but the movie was good
Oh, yeah wolf was like is the movie good or bad and the answers were it's gay and it's straight people were like wait
does
Is gay bad is gay good?
And obviously jill and hole made a lot of people gay in their movies. So they were like, oh so gay is good
So it might not have been I don't know. We'll never know the answers
You know how much I sacrifice shocker
That's a good combo of memes
Uh, how did he know about edith? How did the holograms make oh wait
So he knew about edith because there was someone on his team that was involved in the stock industry specifically
I can't remember what the profession is, but he does mention it
How do the holograms make darkness in the illusions when the holograms are made of light? How did he do illusions without drones?
I don't think he ever did illusions without drones. He always had his own drones. He just got more when he got edith
And uh make darkness
um
I suppose you can project
Dark like lights the projects are dark colors
I um
I don't exactly know how the illusion tech works
uh
Because I don't necessarily know that it's really as possible as they portray it in the film
They just tell us that it works that way. I suppose just kind of
It's it's amazing technology
Um, if peter didn't use the drones to hide and conceal his density again, then it's a bigger problem
Edith is kind of a franchise breaker. I don't disagree with that. It'll be interesting to see if they acknowledge that
Um, I don't like my boss. Should I kill my children?
I'll see how those two things connect
Is that a meme? It sounds reasonable to me. Is that a meme?
Mola, please. It's 4 a.m. I know
It's not 4 a.m
No, it's 5 40 a.m for me. No, wait, it's 9 52 a.m. Close. Yeah
brain melting
This is how long have you been streaming? It says like five hours for me. So i'm confused. Everyone is surprised by five hours
Uh, that would be part two is five hours
Ah
Well, see now that makes sense. It's like something only in quotes five hours. Why is everyone saying you should go to sleep?
Violet meme, uh, someone donated five dollars to say Venus
I like it will be living
Mola close your eyes go back to 201 and imagine the first time you booted a battlefield 3 and played conquest large on operation metro
With a shotgun and frag rounds. You're welcome. I have not played battlefield 3
Why I don't know. I was playing the cod games because I was less cool than you hey there I said it
Ah
I'll take it. Uh, I just got off work and walked into an argument get into the memes already
Oh, we're saving the memes. The memes must be saved rescued if you will
for the day of reckoning
Rags is online add him to the call are in chat for rags. He was uh
His throat is not up to the task today and if he was to talk more it might make it worse so
No pusherino
Two-pot chat villain plan are all stupid if you wanted to control the world while heroically playing the victim the best plan would be
To marry into a highly nepotistic ethnic tribe with high verbal IQ that controls media and politics with blackmail and propaganda
Maybe we'll see that in spider-man 3. You don't know
How come tony didn't just tell peter about the fbi so that he didn't do something stupid?
um
I don't think that tony was expecting him to even
be let alone aware of the um
The sting with the fairy but that he was even in the location and that even if he was to be doing all of those things
That he would end up doing the actions he committed to and on top of that
The motivation behind it being I want it to be like you
It's like a big collection of tony being disappointed in all the choices that peter made but um
Complicated to say the least
Marry into a highway there lol endgame too much death. Let's have some fun now lamp
Yeah, uh, there's tonal shifts when you go through the entire mcu
Depending on what the film wants to do itself and usually the opening scene will try and dictate it. That's uh
How a lot of these movies go like if you watch the civil war opening scene, it's just the um, they're like waking up winter soldier
And it's very almost creepy
It's a very serious movie, but then you go to something like thor ragnarok where
Like oh no falls in a cage
It's like oh, this is gonna be fun
Uh shad you have how you wait shad you you have preferred if he said fury
Just gonna drag me into another meeting. Fury's just gonna drag me into another meeting
Maybe I don't know if shad would say that's what he would be after
Oh, maybe colson was there first found the hammer and called for support
Oh fair enough. I thought it was that uh, he was sent there
Peter is unlikable because he's an orphan
Dun dun dun
Are people super chan lots of venuses
Dad you clearly just dislike peter because he's neither a dragon
Meticulation maticulation or sword you would have agreed with that. That's just straight up truth
the flash
Uh wolf I got ory to play on my laptop on flights two slash from the us
You're so positive about it and it was so good when I tried it out
I spent half a day playing it my flights aren't for a week. It's too fun
You would literally just tell you yeah, it's an amazing game and it's I believe his favorite game of all time. So
Definitely a high score of mr wolf
Um, thank you for the many hours of content weekly. You help keep my head at work. Love the objective. This is subjective topic and view
Uh, keep up the criticism
Yeah, and I think that a lot of progress got made throughout these two efaps discussing it. Um
I love the debates, you know, it's fun
And like I said me fringy and shad have actually had these conversations a few times. We uh, we're all very big into writing. So
It's fun
Anakin saved the galaxy and fudged is he a hero
and he fudged
Uh, but yeah, maybe I don't know
You might come under the definition if you rescued some people's I can't remember what makes a hero mel. Tell the tell the world
Sorry, what is a hero what makes a hero? Yes
I know doing something that's impossible to someone else or
Overcoming something that is very hard to do and you save the world while doing it
I mean, there's a lot of definitions of a superhero
I mean superhero is like someone that's like invincible. I guess that's like a power or something
But like a hero general like that could be a lot of things you could be a hero if you
Rescue a child from being hit by a bus
Yeah, but I wouldn't do that because I don't want to get hit by a bus I could just see the scene
You'll stand there you pointed and go no
Someone save that child it's a really slow bus headed towards there. You're just like if only
Something I'm saying like right next to they could just
Reach out and like pull it back say oh, you can even throw something at her to just make it fall over. He's like no
Uh
Um
Played most of dark souls 2 the second half of the game is a complete mess that I could never figure out what to do
Got into three trees in early game area dlc very varied in quality terrible recycled bosses
Try and shelver but also sin and a lawn
well
I assume you mentioned that to me because of my ds2 series and you probably know from that that I love ds2
You never play dark souls 2 lies
Haven't watched far from home yet, but I will watch this stream after that have a good stream boys
Love y'all and shad. I will buy your book soon wolf when it's reprinted fringy you frog
Yeah agreed on all counts
Fringy what's your favorite daredevil season? Mine's three, but one is a close second. I think
I think his is number one
I will keep the question and try and ask it
I'm that's suitable
What's up mola wolf fringy and shad? Oh, they didn't say hi to you mel. Damn
I mean, I guess that's like no, no, no, no, no, no, just hate me. Okay, that's cool
I'll take it thing. I dislike about far from home is mysterious origin has been done before in the mcu
Mole, you inspire me good man, but thank you and yes, it has been done, uh in the vague terms of
Pearson who is disgruntled because of tony. I believe there are four of them now possibly more
A lot of tony disgruntled peoples wolf. I love you, please
Films of the past are not films of today
The most exciting future mcu film is shown at stcc. I think it'll be the dr. Strange one
That's the one i'm most interested in. Anyway, that'll blade
Wolf versus the world also don't send me to efap prison. Oh, he did read that one out
um
Beowyn if mola and wolf a cat dog then rag should be the blue mouse
also wolf jack black
Um, I think yeah beowyn's got free rein to do exactly
Whatever he wishes to do
Wolf sticking around great. Let's talk prequels
Uh, I think he was too far gone at that point to be able to talk about the prequels
Maybe one day mr. Wolf Doritos cool ranch or nacho cheese
I'm gonna guess he'd go with cool ranch. That's my that's my guess
though, um, if i'm wrong, then my other guess would have been the other option so I can't be wrong
my backup choice
Yes, this video is subjective. He confirms it doesn't change the fact that far from home is objectively massive glad efap civil war one
Has ended godzilla is retarded
Um, I agree. Yeah
and um
He does confirm his video is subjective, but he also makes a couple of objective claims, which is part of the problem
A classic mistake
Or was it a mistake at all? Maybe it was deliberato. You ever think about that?
No, i'm very retarded
I refreshed the page to make sure i'm getting them and I got like a new comment on a video
I checked it was like, uh, it just says on my captive bubblewood couldn't be bothered finishing this vid. In fact, why am I writing this?
Okay
You do you buddy just got here what are you on and can I have some oh that was for wolf and
Probably you just gotta go ask him. I guess
I mean, I can give you some beef jerky. I have some lying around can't just offer people beef jerky, dude
Sorry, i'm
Okay, no dangerous. You're not getting any
It's full penis now
Uh, oh, come on who would ever meme something heartbreaking? It's not like after infinity war there were tons and tons of dead peter memes
Yeah, it's totally not like
Uh kids of our age to meme tragic things
Those bastards. I would never do that
Why am I not surprised this is still going? Yeah, there was no point in being surprised about something like that. It's just
It is inevitable
Follow-up. Yes. I watched all of your dks two series and found it interesting
I was surprised you never mentioned the terribleness of grave robber varg and syrah while talking about the dlc 11 hours
You had time to do so baller. I missed a couple things honestly
And the the the series evolved it wasn't necessarily intended to be the way it ended up
When I started
Um, I think the way the best way to explain it is
Uh, I don't know. You probably remember this it was like
I I know what arguments I had to counter from h bomber guy and I needed to collect footage and as I was collecting footage
Things started to happen where I was like, holy shit
This is bad. And then I collected and I was like, how do I put these in the script?
I was like, how do I how I?
And then I was like, oh some of these things I can fit some of them
I can't I have to put them around different videos
And it was yeah, it was it was
Complicated but I think it worked out
Um, I think may's position is
Sorry, uh, just uh, I think just a
Collection of the clips with hit bad hit boxes was like oh, yes
Not complicated with so many of them. I think it like at least
Three times more than you have in the video. Yeah, it was a matter of trying to get the
clearest ones or the best ones
No
I think that may's position in this movie to be fair if I made this movie may's position would be on her knees. Oh my
Luke should have given solos dice to peter parker dice are better than a briefcase. I agree ben's dice meant more
Wolf, how do you have 300 red? Oh, he did answer that. Um
Would you feel as objective if dnd didn't make the old republic movies off of any source material and it was still an objectively decent movie?
Um, I honestly whatever they do with star wars, I hope it's good
We don't have a lot of faith to go on right now
The interesting thing is the fact that they're supposed to be good at adapting
So what if they do take source material and do well with it?
Probably quite the um experience considering their reputation right now
It's um
Would you feel as objective if dnd didn't make the old republic movies off any source material and it was still objectively good
I guess so like I don't know why
I wouldn't but it may be oh, maybe if you've made the mistake of thinking like I don't i'm not too into the um
the old republic's content, uh
I guess a good one to go for with me would be something like buffy or if it was adapted to a movie or something
um
The question would be would I be able to separate myself if they fucked up the characters that sort of thing
but I mean game of thrones kind of did it and
I still separate myself to talk about the
quality of the writing versus
The quality of the adaptation it's still two different things group hug to wolf
Yes, hey wolf was wondering since you read the wheel of time series. Oh, I
I think he answered that I can't remember. He definitely read something about the build time
Uh, he definitely read that one
It might be 2 2 2 a.m
But efap is more important than sleep wolf. I feel you on the high deep thoughts. Love you all. Thanks for the great streams
No problem
All you massive buy a kitkat and a soda to boost your dignity
I appreciate that many people saw the uh, the world-class bullshitter stream. I've seen a bunch of references good shit
Um
Buffy is technically an adaptation of the original movie. Is it not?
I think that the source for both of those is joss weeden's head and that technically the movie
Is partially considered to be like in canon within the show, but to a different degree
They mentioned she came from a different school and she burned down the gym
Which isn't what happens in the movie, but it's implied that that's where she came from
um
But these are the reasons why that wouldn't fit together entirely. It's just that
As far as i'm aware the movie was taken from his ideas about buffy and then the show is also the same thing
Uh, oh and hi rex
I think the movie would have been better if they pasted out more spread it over two movies villain plan phase one movie one phase two movie
two
perhaps
Wolf you was kind you were smart. He was important. He did read that one out too
conspiracy theory
I think this is building up to spidey leaving the avengers or being the big
Finale piece in some movie later down the line the former would be interesting the latter more likely
Hi rag glad you've been live since I left for work now at home. Also. Hi me in three hours. There you go some guy
He kills villains like iron man now
well
spider-man didn't kill anybody
Mysterio shot himself which I don't think you can really say is much different from what happens with norman in the first movie
Uh
Holy, fact, it's the famous dream on metal commander
We got metal commander misterio is a simplified syndrome
He doesn't intend to give powers to anyone else though. It's usually it's just for him
Syndrome did say he wanted to like sell his stuff eventually, right?
But yeah, I can see the comparison for sure
Um brought our dried up dew-filled pubic hairs together quintessentially
Someone paid money for me to say that
The strange world we live in yes, my work day is longer than one episode of efap get good scrub
Is it though?
Do you think a story needs an overarching theme or lesson to be good I think not but hey i'm not a writer
So I wanted your opinions on that. No, um
I don't think you're required to have one. You could have a story
We didn't even detect one and then it could be ones that weren't intended to have one that do have one. It's a
Whole fascinating thing. I think that
People will tend to connect your story more if they can enjoy it on its own and then see a big pattern slash lesson sort of thing
It'll it'll maybe hit them in the heart a little bit more and if you want them to remember it more you might
Gun for that because the dark souls lore is so so popular
Because it's not a focus, but there's like a lot of going on apparently
Well, I think I think people will be comfortable saying yes, there is a lot going on. Absolutely. Yeah
How do you masses go for so long? Love you all?
uh
Training on twitch for many years
And this became a thing
What if they pull a denarius with ray? I'd love it bobson. It would be so much fun
I hope they do watch lord the rings for the first time in 12 years first time extended. It's great
Lighting for nighttime scenes is amazing puts game of thrones to shame. Love you
completely agreed cara
If young bruce wayne gets green arrows tech and depends on ollie more than alfred his parents
Memory and if well executed, is it a good batman movie?
I mean i'm of the perspective that
uh
What would be required to make a good batman movie is something
To do with adaptation and then what makes a good adaptation is complicated
I like the sentiment that you need to keep the spirit intact
The problem is what defines it and that's another conversation. I think is very interesting. Um
Obviously, I would just maintain it could still be a good movie
But what makes a good batman movie is a little bit more complicated
I think you'd probably agree, but i'm not the best person to ask anyway because I haven't read
Enough of the batman comics or seen enough of the shows
Slash well i've seen all the movies pretty much so at least i've got that
Finally got into university. I hope for was able to catch the end of yesterday's efab that started after I went to sleep
Nice good day to you. Good day to you, sir
Yeah, makashi is a fighting style lightsaber form and is one of seven check out
Gensara's channel for more info. I'd like chad's take
Um, yeah, it would be cool if he did a video on that actually because I know about the um
The this seven fighting styles or whatever
um
And he goes through some of the stuff in his videos on like lightsaber movements
It'll be interesting to see which ones sort of match up or which one he would decide is the uh, most effective
Please split evenly amongst everyone on efab today
uh
I don't know if the the cost of sending
um
66 cents is probably going to be
About equal i'll just put it in like a kitty's thing that'll just grow and then once it gets to a certain thing
I can send it. But yes, uh pulling a denarius with ray would be different
Denarius had a personality to ruin. That's a good super chat under ray is beautiful
Uh next defab gaming needs to be shad spawn versus sargon's son in the dinosaur game
That was a fun stream
Uh, marry shag kill tom holland spider-man andrew garfield spider-man toby mcguire spider-man
Ooh
I'd marry the tom holland one. He's got a promising career right now. He's uh, it's a very handsome lad
Uh shag andrew because he's a very attractive lad, you know, and then uh kill
You know toby because you know
You would cry about it. I'd be like it's okay toby pat about the head
Uh
Black panther movie rewrote the premise originally they found the vibranium less than a hundred years ago
I think they had a problem with technology developing too fast and made more problems trying to fix it
That's really interesting if that's true
I could totally see that being
Sort of like an unseen problem with trying to approach it
Have you seen you were never really here?
No, I don't recognize the name either
Uh
Shad I must protect myself from temptations of the gay. Tell me serpent slayer
How did our ancestors defend themselves in long times past?
I'm, so sorry that uh
He was unable to answer that question
Wait two ephaps in one day. Holy bonus content batman have some money. Why thank you matt?
uh, it was kind of two well one split into two as we did with the critical drinker one and the
Well, that's the latest one we did it. That's not this one
There's been a couple of them now. Um important question. Have you seen the cat's trailer? I did it was terrifying
I don't want to see it ever again
Um, I I heard about this. What what is the fuss about?
The creepy costumes cgi cat people it's disturbing. Oh, the moment like fat too and it's like what why why why?
We want to see the trailer now. Just watch it do it. It's a weird one
All right. So I'll do it right now
Venus two Venus three
Venus four
Venus five
Oh my god. What is this? Yeah, say I told you Venus five again
I just got through your ds2 series for the third time you'll be pleased to know I was never bored
Ah, that's excellent. Ryan. I'm on I'm on par with tlj then
I swear I wasn't stealing a joke. My head's dead. It's just slow. Oh, it's all good. Taylor. It's all good
All right, it's the carabiness ferris venus day off venus the sixth venus resurrection
Fascinated by this. Please ask metal the bathwater question you massive. All right mel important question for you
I'm not gonna sell bath water. No, that's not the question
Okay, I was just guessing if a person is to drink used bath water at will really get herpes
Do they deserve herpes?
I guess yeah, why not? Oh you're saying yes. All right. I feel like we might actually have to make a note of everyone's votes on that one
Um, I mean, isn't your own bath water? Is it someone else's bath? Someone else's you pitched it you opened it up and you drank it
Do you deserve hippies?
You deserve to get I don't know shot in the head or something
shot
Um
And then the last the last super chat from eric stewart metal
I want to cup your butt cheeks with both of my hands and bounce them back and forth between each other
Like i'm trying to weigh them. What do you think?
Excuse me, I think that's that's not a denial. I think he's on board. Wait, wait, wait
I I was only half listening because I didn't realize I wasn't it's better
Both my hands and bottom
How much do I get?
And and can I put it on my porn channel? Yes to make money off of it. Well, then go go wild the beanest water question
Okay, that is it for this double bill of efap. I need to go back to the living world. Um
Thank you so much for watching this is the end of the the spooderman arc of efap
I think it was three episodes in a row for it
I think we talked about the films extensively talked about their pluses and cons in as a
In a consistency manner and then tried to talk about them from adaptation points of view and then checked out both the high top videos
He's he seems just fine. If he'd like to come on efap to discuss the films. That is absolutely fine
um, I remember wolf was telling me the other day that apparently he's debated the uh
the the films previously, um
Or it might not have been wolf. I can't remember someone told me. Um
Could have been fringy actually the I might check that out just to see what what they kind of argue with or how
um
Big thank you to the guests
It's been wonderful shad and and death bullshit hanging around for a bazillion years and of course fringy
They're all bringing their a-game for their arguments. I hope
You're you all enjoyed it. Um
it's tough to sort of
Uh talk about films at the same time as trying to like re-establish a agreed upon foundation for like writing
and so
The point is to try and actually like just
Have people listen to it
Maybe uh it can benefit them in their own writing or at least explore it so that we can all progress and and make better judgments
As we go along too because uh this adaptation thing it's not over. It'll come back
It's gonna be with something else. It could be batman could be
um
The man of steel stuff that people are looking out for so yes, and um people sending memes on twitter, etc
Don't worry. They're being cataloged. This was episode 45. So that means
Five episodes from now
We're going to be doing the um the 50th
Which will that one will have memes or it'll be the one where we're celebrating an anniversary, which would be the 22nd a month from now
One month from now is when we did the first defab stream guys. It's been one whole year
so uh
Amazing, but yes
Thank you all for watching. Thank you for your generous donations and um your wonderful pieces of artwork that i'm still collecting
I hope you had a lot of fun and links for everything is in the description
This will be uploaded on the moolah channel
The first one should be going up relatively quickly because I think it should have processed by now anyway, which is good
Thing about doing two parts, I guess but um, yeah
Thank you all. Good night, and we shall see you next time
You
