Yeah, yeah, I'm assuming you've been tweeting about like, oh, I've been watching Toy Story and some people figured it out
Well, they don't know that I was they didn't know that was gonna be on efap. Oh, didn't they?
No, they didn't all I said that I was gonna be doing a thingy with Evan. I didn't mention anything
Oh, hey, by the way, captain captain midnight actually made a video on
the good
Did a video on Toy Story 4 and it's titled the problem with Toy Story 4 and the thumbnail says what would he did?
Yeah, it's yeah, I've seen some of it. He has a problem with like Woody's decision at the end. He thinks that character. Oh
That'll be that'll be our dessert, let me pull it up captain Jiminy Christmas, I'm surprised you would come to such a crazy conclusion
Here this is a rare instance of captain midnight being based as fuck. Here we go. I
Mean, I guess we could
We could check that out third
Again, it makes me want to kill myself. I don't like the yellow. I'll be honest, but captain midnail is a miserable generic
All the spiders youtubers. It's like a
Totaled style, but instead of white, it's yellow like but he doesn't even though it's technically not true
Yellow is brighter. Like it's just something about it is
Uh, I'm very appealing like aura mocks me. It's it's like screaming zonker bright
lemon green or something
Is it safe to say you do not like it I do not enjoy the yellow in the thumbnail
But captain midnight, how many times we cover him? Is it just that one time really early?
Incredible villain he's a part of the big like community of video essayists, isn't he?
One that does stowels to find and Marvel a marvelous scene. I think it was called or something like that
They didn't invite me to that and I don't like the invited J. The what's what is that? What do you think?
Is that racism? I don't know. Jealousy. I think it's just
Despicable. I'm really curious what I would have done if I wasn't fired. I wonder if I'd have been like
I'll make a 10-minute video and talk about something. I like it Marvel. Why not?
Yeah, what would you have done for Star Wars?
It would have been from the the OT. I imagine I would have been like, you know what that OT
It's all right. Do you guys see the literally prequel memes? I
I
Also, it's a minute. Oh, dude, I would love to pick an ironic praise of do it
Just that one line and talk about why it's the most amazing line in the history of stars
It defines Star Wars. It's defined it. Yeah, like that's what Disney's that's what Disney's motto was for the sequel trilogy
You have an idea?
No, Disney's motto for the sequel trilogy was a good question for another
A good question for the novel in stores now, which and in a tie-in VR game. Yeah
And Fortnite's like that that joke about like the novelists having to basically what they're in the cinemas watching these films
They have a notepad. They're like, oh Jesus
There's a post I saw on Twitter like in Snoke's bio and it said something like
Claims to have watched the rise and fail of the Empire. That was supposed to go to stick better
How could he possibly have watched the rise and fall of the Empire?
He was a clone in a tub he was yeah
He's watching out of his little his little glass pane just like oh
Look at that world out there. Wow. I can't wait to be a part of it. We'll be by in one day and you're like
Everything the light touches will be mine because it's fucking space and the light touches everything
It's so interesting like this more than any other film franchise
I guess like if you just traded out Ryan for any other director and writer like the story would be
Like unrecognizably different
Like any other person because they just didn't seem to care
I was like, you can you could make your movie and they scramble with the weight of their decisions two years later
I actually think they did have a vote of you didn't like it
But we hired people but we hired people to do it
What do you mean you didn't like it? We hired people to do it. What happens?
Yeah, so I figured probably probably get it said earlier than rather than later
Kieber kens has let the let the world of Twitter know that
I guess while he was out his stuff got biggled like
laptop computers slash basically everything valuable in their place
and
There is
He's the guy who's been doing all the epap.me stuff
Which that site is amazing if you haven't already checked it out is his work is
Basically shocking like you haven't seen that you need to it's insane like it's professional level
Yeah, and funnily enough you go on there right now. Evan Monroe is actually on the front page linked. Oh my god
Yeah, like like like we're covering so not sad for though. I'm not sure what that says, you know
I
Fucking deserve so no listen my profile picture on YouTube is not the cat. It's it's the Chris stuck
Yeah, okay
true
If you go to the the bottom of epap.me, there's a donate
Option and then that takes you to PayPal if any of you are out there can
Spare any support. I assume that kieber kens is going through a pretty tough time right now
Fucking it's like, you know, you know that saying money one is a lot sweeter than money earned
it's like the inverse of that is like
Stuff that you get taken from you is much worse than stuff you break if that is
Fucking horrible. Just take things you're like, wow
That's just gone now
Yeah, so if you if you can help out it's in the the top of the description
I've got a little like thing on how to do it
Hopefully
He begins can get back on his feet. I I don't I haven't heard from them since since that tweet
but we will keep an eye and
Hopefully it can work out
Yeah, please help someone who's been a really important part of the community. The website is an
Incredible. It's it's a work
It's not it's just it's a lot of passion and effort and blood and sweat and tears go into
Keeping it making it maintaining it. So please do help them out if you think a lot of the mean people actually use it
it's quite a useful
resource because it gives you timestamps and references for all of
All meme stuff binds and references explanations. It's like a big old wiki. So
Yeah, I I refer to him as an invaluable member of the toxic brood last night donated a little bit of money to him and
One could chip in a little bit, you know, please do help if you
Yeah, he's Goodman
Other things we should probably mention
Corona is a thing like a pretty significant thing now to the point where
Loads of different governments doing all kinds of tisms. It's not exactly something we need to cover ad fab
But it may as well acknowledge the fact. It's like holy shit. This is a yeah, he virus getting kind of big
Stuff's getting closed around here. We're taking preventative measures before it gets bad in our area
So if you're listening wash your hands
Clean your penis don't lick doorknobs all the stuff that you should probably already know
Don't grab people and cough on them. That's a big one
Yeah, try to avoid that and and if you're going to be doing some panic shots
The people at work there because that could be me like I literally work at a grocery store and
Yeah, no, I don't figure it we work at a grocery store I just I just literally work at one
Yeah, I I work at a grocery store and these last two days have been utter hell
That works there. So yeah a lot of please a lot of bigger popular posts online about how everyone's stupid for panic buying toilet paper
I think the the reason that people are considering it stupid is because
Toilet like you that's not gonna
run out and I guess
The the concern I think most people have is like oh my god. I'm at one point
I'm not gonna be able to leave my house
I bet I have all the toilet paper
I saw angry Joe tweet about how like people are desperately buying up all the toilet paper is like they're gonna need food as well
As you won't even need the toilet paper
Well, a lot of food can last a long time like canned food can last years. Mm-hmm
But I guess a lot of people it's maybe they just take food for granted, but they don't want to
Not be able to wipe their bums. Yeah. No, I I understand why people assume that's probably the first thing to go for
It's just that uh, you get the there's a lot of posts right now damning people who are panic buying toilet paper. Um, so
I guess it's annoying. There's lots of people and
Then think of the thing of it this way if a lot of people are somewhat concerned
Which is reasonable and they all go and buy a little bit more normal
It will seem as if everybody is panic buying and flooding the stores
So remember these are stores like this are hubs where lots and lots of people go to shop. So
guys
You can't eat bog roll that means people can try the newest thing I've seen on right now China donates 1,000
respirator machines to 2 million masks 20,000 medical suits and 50,000 COVID-19 test kits to Italy
thanking Italy for its help in China's initial outbreak
All right
Nice. Yeah. Well, I mean that's probably gonna be like the only nice thing we hear about for a while
It's gonna be mainly just like it's here now. It's this many people now. It's this many people now
Well, I uh, I heard that up in
Saskatchewan
they had a
vaccine that was currently undergoing testing in the testing phase so I
heard
I
Heard that in Italy about a thousand people have recovered from the virus. So that's really good news, you know
It's not a death sentence. That's something to keep in mind
Um, isn't it over a thousand deaths in Italy as well?
Over a thousand deaths. I don't think it's it might be closing in on a thousand deaths
Wasn't yeah, see Italy
There's a I remember
reading something about
Italy's got
15 K infected 1k recovered 1k died. Oh, yeah, that's it. Okay. It's 1k. Yeah. Whoops shit
So perfectly balanced as all things should be I guess
Yeah, well, you know, you know definitely not
Ones to panic manga just just curious to keep an eye on it. That's all just maybe don't go to parties and
rub yourself all over other people for a while and
You know just act like it's flus. Just take it like treat it like a very serious flu season
It'd be really weird once we start like cuz it's it's getting around like when you know
I know how silly this sounds it's like Tom Hanks has already said that he's ended up with it
But like when youtubers stop being like I actually have it. It'd be like, oh shit. Yeah
Yeah
The the news that Tom Hanks has gotten the coronavirus is really sad because now I think I get to watch what he died
Just one year. That's great. Yeah, dear sweet. Well, yeah
Before before jumping into the toy store thing as well. I was just gonna say
the the the end of the last stream about
registering how I don't think avatars very good of the
Wolf, but it was a bad tism. Don't worry. It was it was actually kind of hyperbolic
It was just it was just supposed to be fun. It wasn't meant to go over with like
shock and all
So my bad on that one. I should I should have thought about it
I thought because the idea was like avatars beloveds was like not only do I not think it's very good
But wolf has sort of turned on it, but that's
You know like like people want us to address
Arguments about avatar will get around to it at some point. I'm gonna contact a couple people I think who are
Most people would want me to talk about the avatar to like I've already talked to ER
So it's the other options. I've got a PSA sitch literature devil and a couple of others
So I'm gonna sell something out. Maybe even glib. He's apparently a
fan of it, so we'll
Probably jump into something with them and and I can release something at some point
It's just that like I didn't have any plans to do any kind of
Stream for it, and I don't have I'd have to watch the whole show again if I was gonna do like a Mandalorian style thing
Which we still haven't finished by the way. We're gonna do a part two of I'm not forgetting that
I didn't write all those notes
But for Mandalorian to not use we didn't watch through that whole show
To just we are we watching season two of that by the way is that happening?
We can if you want to I mean I think we probably should let's just see
I'm fine. I mean I'm gonna cross my fingers and hope that it gets really good
But uh Kelly, I'm not gonna I was a gambling doggo. I wouldn't put all my bones on the it's good category
We'll have to see I'm
We can have
Just making more about the plot even though actually that's probably not a good piece of advice cuz
Just I don't even know what advice I would give to Disney
Just boy, I mean Buffy season one was bad. Yes was yes. It was very bad very bad. Yeah
Gotta make sure we mentioned that otherwise
Yeah, it might be might be seen as Buffy's it cuz like a lot of people connecting Buffy to avatar
Just cuz that was the storyline with wolf and I traded shows. Don't worry people Buffy season one is is
Most things are better than that
like
Not Toy Story 4, but you know most thing no
No, there aren't there aren't a whole lot of things that Toy Story 4 is better than
Yeah, I mean it's true that it ranks. What did it rank in your movies for 2019?
It was my least favorite movie of 2019 and I did not see I did not see cats
But I did see Rise of Skywall
And I saw King of the Monsters and those were like my bottom five picks well see I would
Definitely enjoyed King of the Monsters more than fucking Toy Story 4 like oh, of course. It was it was above Toy Story 4
Monsters was just like terrible and terrible
In the cinema when I came out I was still like man, you know, but like this fight seems pretty cool
When they're not like just cutting back to the humans reacting to the monsters fighting that was awesome
Yeah, hey, we have to know how a human would react to that
I have to I have to respond to this guy in chat Toy Story 4 worse than Rise of Skywalker
How because right?
The bad you can laugh at it in Toy Story 4
Made me quietly weep in the theater as I was watching my favorite characters from my childhood. Just get ass-raped
Yes complicated, right cuz Rise of Skywalker. I think we'd all said this before going to see the movie
It's like it's already dead right like so watching it, but they did the unthinkable
And they they did ruin still what we had left to love about the OT like they went for Attica and sacrifice like wow
That's bold. You went you went for that to destroy. So it's not like it, you know gets away with good marks
It's just that it's like it was unscathed Toy Story was like, oh, this is a cool trilogy good stuff
like okay, sir
It's like if if you switched rises
Did I like their release dates right the rise of Skywalker would be hated
Way more than the Last Jedi, I think and the Last Jedi would be the
Was just so so terrible. It's hilarious
That feels interesting today look at this back-to-back
You got Toy Story 4 is a disgusting abomination back-to-back with stop making 11-hour video essays on children's movies
They're men cartel dry. Oh
Oh
Yeah, I can't wait for the movie circle jerk thread making fun of the fact that we're gonna do some 11-hour long stream
Raging about a kids movie. I mean those kids
For sure is the she can get passion about yeah, it is. It used to be really good
It used to be you know, it's not it's actually Evan and I rewatch the whole series. Okay, we were
I mean, yeah, I was gonna say like we could just we can just jump in if you want
So let's talk about Toy Story one, I guess should we
Sure
Ready to talk. All right. Let's see. So
There's there's a number of things that we noticed in Toy Story one that amount to like nitpicks
And we took a lot of notes and we also like founds a bunch of like neat
And we were thinking about like
so there's a there's a big criticism that we have of Toy Story for all of us or the
Praying in the open way too much like and like we're they could easily be seen
Mm-hmm. And the first thing that I noticed in Toy Story one was
The army men are carrying that little walkie-talkie down to where Andy's birthday party is
so they can tell the toys upstairs and
What Andy's opening for his presence? I was thinking like isn't that kind of risky like that that's sort of
Risking to take detection a little bit. Oh, you mean the fact that they had that walkie-talkie at all
No, the idea that they're actually walking from Andy's room
downstairs where there's a bunch of kids and everything like that
Like they do freeze after after a while
I think that the jump rope thing is the risky bit like they're literally like like lowering it down and it's tied and if like
A kid just passed by it'd be yeah, difficult to make
So it's like they're they're lowering the thing down from a like with a rope from the upstairs
And then they they jump they basically bungee down to the
From the from the top level to the bottom and I was just like, huh
Risky for sure. Yeah, all these all these kids who happen to be like clones of Andy by the way because Pixar didn't want to
expend the resources
kids facial features unique
At which you know nitpicking everything but fun more back then so to be fair. Yeah
What's a what's a frequent thing that we see in the in the movies is
Whenever they hear a human coming whenever they hear that a human is gonna be around and could possibly see them they free
very rarely do they like move when a human could possibly see them when they're
like it's only when there's an emergency that they are willing to
But even then they will still use cover
Especially like in Toy Story 2 the bit with the traffic cones. There was something that I mean we can
listen chronological order but
It's one thing that we noticed was that it's sort of convenient that humans always make a lot of noise before entering the vicinity of the
toys
We go prone, but at the same time kids are kids. So it's not all that contrived. It's like convenient, but not too bad, you know
Was the funny thing is like it because we're essentially told through the film
It's just like yeah all toys throughout the world have this level of sentience
But the world is about as aware of it as our world is so it's like, okay
So how are they doing this and it's like well, they kind of just play it like in the boat
Yeah, it's all they're really really good at improvisation
Woody mentions the quote-unquote rules to Sid's toys. Like he says we're gonna have to break some rules and it's like what rule
Yeah, and if he's casually able to break the rules like that, it's like this would be public knowledge by now, wouldn't it?
Yeah, it has to be yeah, especially nowadays like that's the thing
I think they rely on the idea that every once in a while in our lives
We come across, you know stuff on the floor or stuff in weird areas and you're like
That's weird, all right, you know
Someone must have played with these and put these here and that the toys are relying on that but at the same time
It's like damn also. Yeah South Pole you're cutting out a little here and there. I don't know if there's anything that
Do I sound better now? I mean, it's it's like
Every every sentence we miss about a weird or two something like that. Oh
Shit. Okay. I'm sorry
Have the words that cut out be the less important ones. Yes
I'm for that
So I'm going to let Evan actually write down the
Sorry read out the notes that he took because we were
There and found a way to easily I was I was noting some things that you were writing down and I didn't take as many
Myself, but yeah
The the the first one that I was writing down was of course the big one
Which is that Buzz thinks he's a toy a lot of people like cite the fact that he freezes in front of people as like being
A big one, which I think is a reasonable criticism to make the thing
That's nice is that they stick with it like they don't explain it but they throughout the entire film
He is always freezing
The question that I have is that he thinks he's a toy and it doesn't seem like anybody else
Has had that like booty all the other toys. They don't seem to think that they're not toys. So it's
It's strange that that he's like he's the only case and if so, it's like why is it because he's a new toy?
Like that's another question is like what exactly did all this happen with the toys?
Like how long have the toys been alive?
It's a strange question because for a moment there it can make for like a really interesting idea
Like wait, so all toys have to have this explained like before
Preferably before any humans see them is like that sounds like it'd be impossible
And so you'd think the easy way to do it would be to have it essentially pre-programmed or something, right?
Like they all know about this intrinsically, which I suppose is really easy to explain but you go with that. I
Mean the a lot of the a lot of people suggest the fix that uh, it's an automatic like non controllable thing
Like people look at you you freeze as a toy
Like that's just a world rule, but then that takes away the finale of Toy Story 1 quite significantly
Exactly. He they all just go right in front of him and that's the trouble is he says the rules
It's like what do you mean by the rules?
Like and you also have toys that are in like you have the aliens at a claw machine and they all freeze
It's supposedly because of the claw, but then they don't in front of Sid. It's like why?
Like there are a lot of toys instead of a lot of different situations
So it's like they're it's strange that a lot of them just freeze in front of humans and it's like why do they all do this like?
Uniformly seemingly without any like, you know communication between each other. It's just they just do so it's an unknown
Seemingly magical yet consistent thing that they just do almost intrinsically
Which is something that Toy Story 4 fucks with. Yeah
This is something we were talking about the night thing about the the previous Toy Story movies is they've raised a lot of questions
If you think about it, but they never directly address a lot of this stuff
So it's not like there's much to contradict
It's like it's just that there's questions which don't seem to have easy answers and they just leave it that way
Which is kind of nice, but there it's there's still a lot of questions to go over
Mm-hmm. There's certainly some mystery. It doesn't
It's like they're
They're questions, but they're not problems necessarily not really big ones
Then they just keep adding new information and all of a sudden there's rules implies something like the toys came up with and control
Like a toy mafia. I'll watch that movie. Yeah, there's like
A ruling governing force of toys who like they make the rule
They make the laws of the toy
Actually, like can you speak for the toys they took it even further that they reveal like one of the biggest powerful people the world
Is actually a toy that the humans aren't aware
like some kind of
Really realistic looking mannequin thing
You know, we're gonna have a nokio style film with a sex plot
Um, that would be interesting
You would think that movie's not going to address that okay
Not going anywhere near that
Um believe in the spirit
So what else so what else we got for toy story one?
Like there's some people like you seriously going this serious with the fucking toy story. It's like well
It's uh, it's a story. It's written. Um, and the big problem obviously is that a lot of the initial
Story is built on the idea that buzz doesn't seem to realize his position in the world
Right. So it's like how can he not though? It's just natural. Yeah
Honestly of all the movies that we went over
I think that toy story one is the one that I think is probably the most flawed because there's a lot of rules that you need
To set up when you're making a story like when it comes to concepts we can get into this with the whole idea of um
Of death that's that's one of the things that I want to address
But like the whole premise is that toys are alive and they don't
Exactly explain how that happens. You just have to accept it. But at the same time it's like
Which that's the premise of your story. So it's like, you know, yeah
Especially after toy story four where you're like, so what's the line?
What do you what line do you have to cross in order for things to become alive?
And it's uh, it's a really scary territory
Yeah
right now
As far as i'm aware
I was almost gonna say it has to have a face but some of the sids toys don't even have faces
There's a lot that you could come up with you could say like you need to have a name written down
It's like a lot of uh and these toys don't have a name like written on them
It's like oh, uh, you you need a face
It's like you have the hockey puck with the arms and the legs which is alive. It just does not have a face
And it's like
Um, okay, you need arms and legs. That's it. You have mr
Spell and etch like etch is literally a slate and it moves around so it's like there really is no rule
There's no rhyme or rhythm to any of the like
Of how which toys are alive like you have the magic eight ball, which is just a toy and it's like they they don't
There's really no consistency in how they like what toys are alive and why they're just some are some aren't so yeah
And then you get the ones that make you think which is all right
Yeah, so i'm fine with that
It's just some art some aren't there doesn't seem to be any rules
I think in toy story one. We don't have anything questioning why it exists and what it means to be alive
It's like, okay. Good. We'll keep it nice and simple. They don't do that. And then later on they're like now they do do that
You're like no
No
Why?
I think southpaw is right now. This mic is not functioning. Oh, no
How far are you then?
That's what I guess. Uh, can you guys hear me now? Yes
Okay, strange I I tried I tried connecting like an ethernet
And it wasn't helping
Um, I might change locations real quick, but I just wanted to point out that like though peep is a lamp
Not a toy and um change locations real quick in toy story two
There's a line from ham like a throwaway line that can
One knowns are also sentient
Oh man
I I know that they didn't mean for that line to have as much weight as it was but I remember when we noted that out
And we're like, uh, oh so garden like supplies can also be sentient
They also think it's like how does that work and I brought up the idea?
Are statues alive? Do those technically count? It's like oh, it's like none of that's in the movie
And it was like this is throwaway line, which i'm sure they didn't mean to have like any
Any like additions to the story?
Something that raises questions nonetheless
So I mean, you know, I guess the point where I have a piece of paper
I draw a little stick man on it and it's like he's not alive. It's like okay. I cut him out
Is he alive now? It's like
Baby, it's like I start I add like I don't know
Some play-doh to the to the piece of paper
I'm just waiting for that moment where the creature
Like screams because it realizes it's it's finally awoken
And then it's freaky that's that's the trouble with forky man and we can get into that right a toy story, okay
Well, I would I would actually I'd actually argue that forky is actually somewhat consistent with
Uh how the sentience thing works in toy story?
Sorry in the toy story series because like when you think about it, none of the toys come from a vacuum
They were all made of materials that were at one point not sentient and then maybe oh sure
Like we all we all just want to believe it has to be like a completed toy as much as that doesn't really make sense
Oh, absolutely. Yeah, there's like there's some
Like and I get it's magic, but it's like there really is no rhyme or reason to how
um in the toy story series the issue is that
uh
Like we're not supposed to think about it and toy story four then brings that to the forefront of our mind as we're watching it
Hmm
Especially when you see that a face on a chair is alive
And
A like a child. I think one of the things was about forky that kind of throws us for loop
Is that it's kind of like with sid like anyone could make toys. It's not like a toy toy
It's just I can put some stuff together. It is now a toy now. It's alive
and you think about all of the ones that are out there that are
like made really really shittily
And how their life must be a living nightmare could be a revolution eventually of all the shitty toys
They're like enough is enough. We've suffered long and we had island of unwanted toys
like
Remember like are melted down or like growing old and they just all come out and just like spark a revolution. Oh, man
That'd be crazy
you
What?
Also, what if you make like a toy out of human body parts?
I don't want to think about that. Oh, man. That's not good
Uh, we're up to move on to yeah, go for what else we got a toy story would
so, um like on a nitpicky level there was a funny animation error that evan and I spotted when um buzz is holding
Laser button for the first time as he's like freaked out by woody
Um, his arm is clearly not well, his hand is clearly not on the button that activates the laser
uh, another more interesting note is like
um, so the first time that he uses it he has to hold down the button with his arm, right and then
Uses it is against the other toys popping up
And at that time he isn't holding down the button at all
He's doing it with just one arm because his other arm is a
Point, um, there's also the whenever he uses the loop-de-loop thing it like breaks the animation
Um, the what you can't like use the loop-de-loop thing
Uh, oh, yeah, it's impossible
But the the way they animate is they try and avoid people noticing they're just like, yeah, that's fine
He just goes through it. You're like, oh
Okay
Yeah, um, there's some there's interesting things about like how buzz is quoting the the back of the box that he came in
As if it's like hardwired into him
Story too doesn't understand his backstory. He doesn't recognize stinky pete or
Jesse or bullseye. He doesn't know anything about like the wood
essentially, but buzz knows all about the buzz light your lore, which is
uh
kind of an interesting, you know, like
I have
The the one thing that I have for that is there is the potential that this happened recently
Like the toys haven't been like alive since like the invention of the toy
Maybe this is something which has happened like maybe in
the last five years or something like that like that could explain it since like buzz is clearly like
A new toy existed since ancient times. Well, yeah, but how long have they been sentient rags?
Well, if you can glue a mouth onto a fork and then I think the rules are like you could tie sticks together
Oh my god, I think I think what evan is trying to say
Is that a gandalf-like character about 50 years ago cast a spell and every one of them finally woke up
That's what he's saying. I think 100
Well, there's another weird
worth, um
Like so they blow up a combat carl
I said blows up a combat carl in his backyard and we see that happen and that presumably kills like that kills that
Okay, we're not sure exactly pieces screaming well think about think about it for a second
Think think about for a second. All the toys in sid's room are like little
Just made of other toys
So we have to wonder like wait for that was torn in half and he's still alive
Yeah, the zebra plush
He's like when sid's putting back a bunch of toys that he's like utterly destroyed and putting them back together making these new things
Are that is that like this?
Consciousness return to them or is it a new consciousness entirely like a new soul?
That is made in that one in that frankenstein that I have for that is that none of them talk
That could be like a side effect. Maybe they're like
Maybe I don't think it's the original conscious
Some of them do like the the spider baby has a mouth
So yeah, I think some of them have to but it's just they like I don't know there could be something
Here's more was saying it could be possible that uh
What he was created as a doll and then the show was created around him like his lore by the creators was given
You know in post they were like cool cowboy doll and it's like, oh the cowboy doll is really successful
Let's make a tv show or it was the reverse. I cover it. Does the does the film
Say something about that. Does he has a toy? Does it come from his show or is it vice versa?
Comes from
Was he a popular toy first and they made a show about him or was it always a show and then he
Was sold as a toy as a result of the show
I don't think they would make a toy or a show about an unpopular toy if that makes any sense
Yeah, like I think I think what they say is that cowboy crunchies was like the the sponsor of that
That might have been something which sparked it that like maybe more merchandise came from like woody's popularity
And then the show came to result of it. I was like that could be it like he was just
But usually you give a little bit of a story to a toy like surely woody has like
You think that's like a joke because you have cowboy crunchies, but remember from dalmatians 101 dalmatians there was canine crunchies
So you just fucking had crunchies the things and boom cereal. Wow, that's like fucking plagiarism
They copied the honey
canine crunchies, maybe I was because
I don't know why I would but I was also. Yeah, so that's why south boy is trying to fix his microphone chat
He's doing he's doing everything he can
The last thing we want to do is give unclear audio, but um
It's not too bad. Most of the time he misses out one or two words and you can mostly fill them in if you
You know detective wise
Just if you sound better now words just replace them with watermelon and see how it works out. Mm-hmm
We can't I don't know if it sounds better yet because you'd have to talk for a while
Well, so I was like I noticed I was too boring down there
In the room that I was in and I've moved to a spot much closer to my router
So hopefully it's more consistent now. Sorry about that folks
All right. Um, what else we got for toy story one being a terrible film?
I just I just wanted to jump off on the idea of like toys
Like that was kind of what we were touching on the combat car like blown to pieces
Yeah, and that's a question about is how does death work?
It's a universe because it's all built on the idea that the toys are alive. So it's like, how do you kill a toy?
It seems when you do
I remember we brought this up when we were joking that woody was gonna kill for he
How do you remember pots of his face fall off and you're like, oh geez
It's not a person where you're like
I'll just fucking shoot him in the back of the head when he's not looking
Like how do you ensure a quick clean humane kill on a toy? How the fuck do you kill it?
Guys it's like imagine imagine that you know someone whose eye keeps falling
Falling out of their head their arms keep like falling down to their feet
It's like fucking mercy kill this person, please is there is there a way to euthanize a toy in the toy store?
I think it's almost impossible to not look at his desperation with jumping into the trash as like attempting suicide over and over again
Oh, that's that's the point for sure
Why did they run with that is it that way wait is it the point is that what they were actually going for like a suicide
I believe so. I believe I believe that was the one toward that
I don't I don't think that's what they meant. I thought they kind of mean it is like a
Oh, he wants to be with the trash because he thinks he's trash. It's not like because he came out of the trash, right?
What he picked him out of a bin wasn't it? Yeah
Exactly, which which raises questions about the nature of the toy
Do they are they defined by the place that their pieces were were lost in like
Is like buzz defined by the plastic that he was forged from it's like not really so it's just like oh
This is why you don't answer these questions
But um, yeah, there's a very dark line that forky makes while he's inside the rv before he jumps out where he basically says
I am a spork i'm used to be eaten and then discarded
But he says this so matter of factly that it's
Unceremoniously that yeah, like like I didn't even think of this line when I first watched the film and when we watched it again
Yesterday, I was like that is shockingly fatalistic and dark
Yeah, he concludes that he should be his purpose is to be discarded. He should be used to eat a thing and then
Yeah, gotten rid of that's that's what gives him comfort
Which is fascinating because you think he accepts this purpose without question almost
Aggressively pursuing this as his goal
I don't like because we're kind of jumping ahead and before which is okay
but I was just gonna say like I thought the point of toys as a whole was they're like they have a desire to
You know be be
There's there's like an intrinsic desire to be
Causing enjoyment and love between like them and a kid sort of thing
But it seems to change based on
That
um, well the thing is that so
Like it's safe to infer that buzz was not conscious until he was given to andy, right?
Otherwise he'd be confused about like being on the shelf of the store were conscious. No, they weren't that's that's the gag reel
That is it is. Yeah, evan and I watched we watched the whole thing. So here's the thing. Um, when
When uh buzz runs into the duplicate buzz with like the utility belt and
Uh, he like does an arm bar against him and presses him against the display glass and he says you're in
Six four oh four point five stating all space rangers are to be in hypersleep until awakened by authorized personnel
So it's confirmed to be or it's at least reasonable to assume
Yeah, so two buzz
But like okay, so let's just do for a second. It's a relatively popular toy because the whole aisle's filled with them. Well, surely
several of them have like
They've fucked up into you know, because like apparently the authorized personnel they still freeze in front of their odors for some reason but
You'd think like oh god, that's good
We're gonna get in trouble with this amount of toys that aren't aware their toys
I'm saying this like there's some kind of toy cabal like there's a group of people
One thing is like like so
One of the things that people say, uh is how toys come alive is when they're loved by a child
But that doesn't work because stinky pete was never open
And given to a child and likewise like the barbies and l's toy barn and a bunch of other toys that you see
They're sentient. They're like, you know, yeah
When when the stores closed do you remember the barbies and small soldiers?
Uh, I never watched small soldiers
Go on chat. Do you remember the barbies and toy soldiers small soldiers were they fucking like horrifying monstrosities because the small soldiers fuck with them
That film is like the closest you'll get to a kid's film push to adult mode
Like yeah, the the small soldiers themselves like fuck with the barbie dolls and they're all like frankenstein-ish at certain points
That someone probably got spooked by that when they were younger. I thought that film was awesome when they shove um
Fucking nick nitro into the garbage disposal
That's proof that I know this film by the way because that's very specific information
Yeah, chip hazard was awesome. Sorry partial small soldiers praise there
Uh, I have a guy that sent me
Talking about the woody not remembering his past thing
He says that he always thought that he was that woody was a very old toy
Which is confirmed in toy story four when it said that he was made in like the late 50
And that over the years the toys just forget about their persona over time as they get more and more used to the real world
That's not confirmed in the news. Yeah, I don't buy that either
So
The question still remains the the big one is when did all of this start like was like literally what mauler described
Was there a Gandalf that just like has to spell that toys come to life?
Like I don't know anything about when this started or how or why interestingly because pregnant small soldiers
The the the uh the logic in that film is that a bunch of toys are accidentally given military grade like cpu's
Inside they fucking whatever and it just makes them sentient
It's like their attempt. They're like that makes sense, right? It's like no
Oh, well
Oh man, um, so the big thing like the first big thing that we found
Another one was that buzz freezing when a kid is around but somehow he does not know that he's a toy
Yeah, yeah through an entire arc
Sort of man
Yeah
It's um, that was when like we had we had to like write that down and like that's
Um, I believe that we we were talking about this last week or something
We agreed like that's a big enough
Problem to like make the film's objective score down like at least two points, you know, but the rest of the writing around
That's good. Like it's a functional plot. Even if there's kind of a big plot hole that's like kicking off the story
Um, it doesn't make sense
Yes, uh the character development that kind of happens between buzz and witty is is actually really great in this
They're a great little duo with those two. They've uh
Such different personalities. Oh, yeah, but the person the person that made toy story four didn't feel that way. No
We can get into that
Fuck the old shit. Do you want to um read out this thing that you wrote down here that i'm highlighting in the doc?
Uh, yeah
Oh, well, I was we were touching on this before we we keep going back to the whole idea of like the the idea of how death
Works in the universe. That's one of my biggest things like
In so the entire premise of the story is built on the toys being alive
So the question is like how does life and death work like in pretty much any story even if it has magic
Like the lord of the rings like you know how death works like the elves and man
Operate similarly if you stab them in the heart, they're gonna die
It's like there's there's other uh, not to attack lord the rings
But like who the fuck knows how life of death works with the uh, the history or the wizard class or whatever
Like and then not school. Yeah, like you have the witch king fight. It's like how does death work for them?
It's like even but they're they're clearly supposed to be special
Sure. Yeah, exactly. Wizards seem to be instruments of like the higher beings, you know
Or whatever they may be like wizards are sent down to be I don't know
Representatives or something because because what does Gandalf say something like he's supposed to he's going to be down
He's he's been sent back at the turn of the tide to help out and it's like who sent you why why aren't they doing more?
But it's okay
So
Well, go ahead Evan go on
No, I was about I was just
Go ahead. You go
No, you go
All right, um, I was I was just gonna say so if you have the idea of like
So the the big one inside of the movie is the combat carl is blown to pieces by sid
The assumption is that the combat carl is dead
But like you have the idea of pieces in toys
So one of the big things is that both buzz and woody lose an arm in toy story one and two respectively
So a question and then they're reattached later on and then they function
So it's like then the then the question is what kills a toy because you also have um
The pterodactyl and the doll who are decapitated in the film that seems to kill them
The trouble is that they're brought back by sid's toys and it's literally because they have food on their necks
It's just like were they dead and brought back by
What if we sew woody to like a cushion? Can you control the cushion?
I think I think you would just be sewn there like that, uh, you know chairs are alive
Like my face is on me like that block from the absorb a lot episode. Oh god
Yeah, it's very similar to that in a lot of respect with the chair
But yeah, like that's that's a big question that I have like, you know, the premise is built on life
I can buy the toys being alive. We don't necessarily need to know exactly why that is
but as for death, you like you need death to build stakes in a lot of story and I think that that's the
crucial one in toy story one because like sid is the villain in that and the threat of course that he's going to
Kill them. He's going to kill buzz by blowing up. So the question is how do you kill a toy?
And it seems like you can even if they're ripped to pieces you can technically put them back together
So it's it's strange that like the story's built on that and it's just it's just a I think that that's a
A bit more of a question that needs a bit of an answer because it's like that's that's that's fundamental to building stakes in
The story is death. So
I can imagine batman trying to kill a toy and he's like you don't bleed
Oh, they really don't
We're just throwing it back in. What would be a toy that does bleed? Is there any toys that like have
liquid inside?
I mean can can edible toys? Oh imagine you were like a bull
Like a basketball or something and you get stabbed and just slowly deflate and your entire body is changing shape and form
You're just like
There's candy that's shaped like toys
Oh, no, you know, like like what about chocolate rabbits and shit at easter? Like those are totally toys, right?
Like but they've been brought and are eaten and consumed
fucking hell
so
There'll be toy advocate groups if this is the thing so many of them like we need to stop like
Well, there's like there's rock and sock and robots that are sentient and toy story too. And that's technically a
Wonder would uh, would the would the guy in operation be sentient? Oh jesus. Oh god
But the other like related to how death works though and like being blown apart like mr. Potato head seems to have an advantage
because he
Control all of his body parts when they're not attached to his body. His arm can move independently
His eyes can see like
They can see what's in front of them
Even if they're not attached to his body mrs. Potato head because he was meant to be taken apart
So that almost like gives them the superpower like that's his superpower
Yeah, I think it's like that's a unique trait that
Uh, he has as a toy. Yeah, it doesn't work for woody and buzz, right? They can't control their separated limbs
Yeah, they're not designed to be taken apart
Which I assume like you could probably do the same thing with like lego minifigures if they're sentient in a toy story universe
um one like funny little thing to think about
Would a batman action figure have the personality of batman?
And you know so on and so forth. It's I mean duke kaboom assumedly has the personality of the
duke character evil the canadian evil can evil he's based off of
Yeah, right
He knows what year has the he has the
Attitude of you know the buzz light your character
Yeah
Potato head as well. You're just like with the lego. It's like oh imagine there was like in lego sets
There was like just this one consciousness that could assemble and disassemble or however it wants whenever it wants
Like the sandman from spider-man, but with lego
We can we can we can make some good villains out of this toy story villains
It wants to go the world
Keeps adding lego
expansions to itself
You can go fucking well, I guess it's just like the lego movie at that point. We'll just put it into that I guess
Assemble itself into a death star and start firing lasers, even though that would make no sense at all, but it would be cool
Lego movie too. I haven't actually seen lego movie too. I saw the first one. What's what's the consensus on that?
Is okay. It's like it's it's not very good at all
It's it's got a very predictable story and it's it's it's kind of thin like the the first one in lego babin movie
You're like so good, but two is just it's really lackluster. So
You're seeing I suppose we're not going in the world of sequels are we
Uh, really?
Um, okay, I guess I can go down the list a little more so i'll pause muted at the moment. Um,
Oh my god
This is a big one
So you you have the the gas station scene is one of the biggest um
Like points that drives the plot of the film is like you
Basically, what is the writing problem in the film is you need to develop buzz and woody the way they do that is they have
Uh, what do you try to push buzz out the window?
That's pretty
That's pretty reasonable like the way that scene is constructed
The second step is they need them to like get captured by sit essentially and the way they do that is
They go they have them go to pizza planet. The big one though is that there's this gas station fight
So in that scene they're just in this barren town like there is no one else pumping gas
That's why they're able to have their fight before like the truck arrives
But the big one is that andy's mom like doesn't pump the gas
They're there
She's literally saying like andy's like saying can I help pump the gas and he's like, okay
Let's go in there and then like oh, let's go and then they drive off it like it happens in like the blink of an eye
And that's why they get left behind. It's just like a little bit like oh
And like this is the continue on there's there's a decent bit of contrivances in the movie
Well the fact that they bump into sit of old people
Well, okay, hold on so the so like yeah, it's a little
Sit is at least andy's next door neighbor. We don't know how far away the pizza planet would be from
uh
From andy's house from andy and sit's houses
For probably not far if they're both going there, you know, yeah, it's not contrived the sit would go to that place
I think that's fine
It's just that they of the short time that they're in the area they happen to be in the same
Machine that sit happens to look into which you know, good thing. He lives near them because then they can try and escape with
Like if they were just captured by even a nice person even like a really great kid, which is live miles away
They'd be screwed. They'd have they'd have no idea back
so
You know, there's uh, there's also the fact that um, you know that scene where they're arguing underneath andy's uh, mom's minivan, right?
And what he's like you are
That one so they have like this fight in this very loud argument and andy and and his mom are conveniently like going inside this
gas
Supposedly to pay for gas but they never pump gas before leaving
They just no, they just they just stop at this gas station. They get out of the car
And then they just like they drive off
Yeah, how do you know they didn't just use an updated gas delivery system or something geez yeah
Yeah, say you're being objective
We have you ruled out
outlandish conspiracy theory number 12
um
Checkmate atheist. Is that it for toy story one then or is there any more? No, no, there's more
I was um, um doctor like I don't know if you guys have got this in one of your notes, but the uh
Woody shouting for anna that actually works. It's just like jesus christ
Yes, we know the back
Is nice about that is it's indistinct. It's just like she doesn't even know if it's the mom
It's like in he calls it out kind of vaguely. He
Seen the mom. I like I think it's semi-reasonable, but it's still really risky. Especially like yeah, it's
It's very faint too. He's like he's kind of another part of a house
Muffled a distance. I mean, it's not like she's holding on to him while he's yelling, right?
Yeah
Just sort of how I would react
Let's say he didn't he's he was doing it for her
I was like the brother of this girl and I was coming out of my room
He didn't realize that I just saw this toy going
Uh, i'd be like oh
And he like looks at me and I looked at him I was like jesus christ what the fuck
There's um getting destroyed
There's no there's no scenario in which you are not in tiny pieces buried in the earth
I just he like points to me and he's like you saw nothing and then falls to the ground. I'd be like
Okay, yeah i'm building the fire
I ain't sleeping in this house with you alive
We skipped over a
oh
Uh when when woody first knocks buzz out the window on accident like he so he drops this magic eight ball
Which is by the way, not sentient for all we know
Um, I guess it can't talk. There's there's no way for it to god. That's terrifying too. Let's let's not
So just drop some magic eight ball in the crack between the
He has a sinister look on his face as he looks at buzz. So his intent is to get buzz stuck in that same space
Um so that he can be taken to pizza planet with andy his plan isn't to push buzz out the window
The thing that he does in trying to
Like get buzz knocked down there. I think uh by moving rc towards him and knocking him over
um
There's basically this
rube goldberg type
Uh chain reaction that it sets off that then results in a lamp getting swung
Knocking buzz out the window and we found that fairly contrived and there's like a
They could have simplified it like clearly what they wanted is they wanted to make it so that like um
That woody was going to like try to trap buzz so he could go to pizza planet like with andy
But like they don't want it so that he's pushed out the window
But that's what the riders want to happen
But the way it happens like it hits a cork board
While the tacks fly off for some reason it knocks over the globe
The globe moves buzz to the window. It knocks the lamp and the lamp hits and it's like that's a lot of
Unlucky things to happen at the same time
Yeah, I see what you did was woody's reaction to that one of like oh that worked out
Well, oh he was worried, didn't he?
Yeah, he was alarmed
He like the first thing he does is he like yells out the windows like buzz and like when he falls
Like he did not mean for that to happen and that's the whole thing is it's like it only happened because of like
Really really bad luck. So it's like yeah
But you think it's a little situation if you're that eight ball and you're incapable of doing like anything
Like one of those I have no mouth, but i'm a screen kind of toys for which there are probably very many
We wouldn't know would we?
Yeah, you get dropped behind
An object like that you just sit there
Forever until someone finds you every single popsicle stick
Well, they actually kind of explored in toy story two with uh wheezy
We can get into that in a minute. But like, you know, you have stuff that stuff like that
So it's been explored in the other films. So
There's also like you can like talk and move and stuff
There's like a funny thing that happens during that sequence when buzz gets uh knocked out the window
where likes, uh, it's something that
Like a cork board and then the tacks just get bumped off the cork board and it doesn't really affect anything. But i'm like
That's not what would have happened in real life and
Dramatic effect, you know because I think they do it to make it look like whoa
Like oh shit sort of look what's happening, but it's just like why the fuck would that happen though?
Yeah to a tiny toy these are like spears
Clearly, you know when a window breaks like the glass is flying
It's like you cover your head for the glass. It's like that's what the tacks are like and it's just it's
It's clearly for a dramatic effect, but it's really weird
so
It's a dangerous world up there for the toy
at the very least um
Like the writing of of woody and buzz's character development. Like it really does hold up throughout the movie. Um, and that's a big
It's movie even though it
A lot of it woody's hawk is classic in that film
yeah, there's there's a lot of strong writing that's what I think like makes up for like some of the contrivances because I don't think that these
are like
Really detrimental flaws, but there's there's there's just some stuff which sticks out
But like there's a lot of strong writing. That's that's why I think this movie still holds up. Yeah
Well, I think a lot of woodies have uh arts
I'm also thinking of like how when?
Like when buzz enters the claw
I know the rocket thing and the aliens are all moving towards him
And I just think it's really lucky that there was absolutely no one like looking into
the inside of
And seeing all of those aliens moving towards him because they they are in the middle of this arcade
I mean see that's that's
That's the kind of joke
I'd probably want to make a lot if I was writing if I would need to refrain just like
Every you see a shot of all the moving toward buzz then the camera just slowly pads to the left
There's just some kids staring at it like jesus. What the fuck?
It's like don't worry kid. Yeah
But yeah, I think you'd have to live it that kind of joke because you know
You want it to be that the world is not aware of the toys
No matter what you say no matter what you do for the rest of your life
No one will believe you
I mean that's you know
Say it like it hasn't been done
But there's a fucking creep factor with sit at the end of toy story one. They're quite scary
When they rise out of the sand with the the the like little soldier dudes with nails in their heads and stuff and
The spider jumping onto his head. It's just like jesus
Yeah, that would traumatize me for life
I think that sit is the
piece of all the toy story antagonists and he gets one of the worst fates of all of them
Because he didn't know what he was doing like he didn't know they were sending
He did I think I think that was kind of the point of toy story one wasn't it that like um
Kids who like destroy toys and stuff maybe dunks it's like um
There's an aspect of your money
Well, not just that as well. Just like the aspect of like exploring your violent tendencies. It's like, you know, be nice to stuff
It's just like a really simple that this this story is like what if they're actually alive those toys you beat up? What about that?
That might have actually been like the fucking you know core idea that got them going on this in the first place just like
I don't want to mean to toys. What if they were alive?
One of the that's kind of what the writers had a kid
Destroying the toy that he gave for him
You little shit
terrible
Uh, so we're what do you want to be at the list? We can we can probably skip some of the
Hit picks but uh, well, okay. We're at the claw machine
Yeah, so let's see. I was thinking okay. So one thing that we noticed was when uh, Andy
Different home and they have molly with them too, of course
But we noticed that molly's car seat is in the front seat of the minivan and she's facing the windshield. Uh,
But most in this movie and um
Children that age should be in the back seat facing away from the windshield
It's like common knowledge among parents. And so it's just it was kind of are you seeing andy's mother is reckless
Well, she randomly goes to gas stations for no reason so she might be kind of crazy. Mm-hmm. Yeah
Keeps buying her children's antian toys. It's kind of creepy was was andy's father ever around
That's the mystery. That's like and kept inside of there
there's a lot of people have theorized on that like why is andy's mom moving and like, you know, the
the whole idea of like, um, uh molly's like is like
Two years old. So it's like where is andy's dad?
It's it's it's an interesting question
It's that's one of those like that's a good mystery like sparks some ideas that you can come up with
John vision that I love this nitpick. She's a terrible mother
It's like here's the thing it's um
The thing with andy's dad as well as uh, like the metaphysics of how the toys
Like those are what I would like to call mystery boxes as much as I hate to use that term
It's like those aren't things that we need to know
We don't need to know
We don't need
Oh shit, you might be right actually
Um
I'm just waiting for like buzz light year. Is he is he andy's dad question mark theory videos red circles?
What about useless boxes? Do you know what those things are? I didn't
Yeah, or useless box. Oh, a useless box. Oh, yeah
You flip the machine you flip the switch you turn them on and then he turns it off
Yeah, let me um
Let me uh, go ahead and send you a little oh, it's like an actual thing
Yeah, this is an example of a useless machine like you just flip the switch and literally all it does is it makes something come out
Turn the switch off
It does nothing, you know, it's there's a use there
But it's like would that thing be sentient?
Like what would that thing be able to do?
That'd be a depressing existence as well
I think we've just we've just established that a lot of these toys like woody and buzz are
Fucking lucky as shit. They have like mouths and hands and feet. They can move
And like those can laser people, you know, how many toys can say that?
If that eight ball alive, it's just it's just stuck in the cold in the dark
Eagle bearer said andy's mum was the original owner of uh, jessie
People have theorized that andy's uh hat isn't woody's hat. It's uh, it's the jessie hat
Some people think that she's actually the the toy that uh, jessie talks about in toy story, too
damn
Could be interestingly
What if sid is andy's dad
What if andy is andy's let's not explore that one um binks is andy's
Uh, so we went over the the woody doing the impression of sid's mom i'm like, I think it's I think it's small
It's risky, but still I think no. Yeah, like it's not a problem
I just it's it's like even these days when I watched it. I'm just like wow, that's like direct
You know cause and effect with these toys not that I didn't think that was possible already. It's just like wolf
There's there's not much stopping
A conversation between a toy and a human and that would be like blowing precedent for the world
Oh
A lot of these things that we noted were just like sort of notes on like, okay
So is this how sentience works and everything like these aren't full on criticisms and also a lot of it is
We're admitting that and that's why we're not like letting these
Take down the quality of the film by too much, but that the movie runs on a lot of contrivances
legitimate problem as well as
Buzz being inconsistent with whether or not he thinks he's a toy
And those are the biggest things. Um
final biggest thing
is it's like
um, it's sort of convenient that this
Like it it happens in the in the climax actually
they're chasing after the the moving truck and
It's like convenient that for the most part the streets are barren and there's absolutely no one around to notice
that sequence
But it's still not quite as bad as the uh
I'm, sorry. What?
There's literally a shot where you see the rc with buzz and woody they're they they
They a car drives over. Oh, sorry
The car drives over woody when he's on rc and then they're underneath the car and they go in front of it
And it's like it's like the the car would see that toys are literally dry
Or the car it's it's it's right in front of him and then that car disappears later. So you remember the car the beeps at woody
Like
Woody's dropped to the road and then the cars are like
like like like hitting their uh
Their horn really hard as they drive past it. I'm just I was always curious. Like what are you?
What are you hitting that horn about you're like, there's a thing on the road
Damn you
Like what are you? I don't really know. I always thought it was just like what are you because it's not the truck in front
Because that's that's gone already at that point. It's just woody
Yeah, it almost feels like it's like careful doll ideally run over you
Um
Yeah, uh not to mention like I think I say the final big problem and this is a pattern in
Story movie the uh, the final payoff
Is nonsense. So in the case of toy story one
And we'll just go carnal
Like we'll go through all the other issues with toy story two first and we'll not that there's that many of them that will
We'll get to that one as well
But the fact that like they're doing
It's not flying. It's falling with style. Like no that's flying dutch
Um, you're going upwards he would you would they swerve like a brick?
It wouldn't take long for the buzz light your toy to just fall. It would I don't really
Like how much you were propelled forward you're going down
Yeah, even as a lip service to the concept of lift, but it does not it is in no way
You
You would need wins that are going for like about I don't know at a hundred miles an hour and pushing the toy up
Word in order for that to happen. And so it's like any light object is flying. Yeah at that point. Yeah
They fly though
They fly now. You should have just had an umbrella
Yeah
Be like mary poppins. Yeah
Yeah logistically speaking it's just it's nonsense but
Payoff, you know. Oh, absolutely that
A lot of the the first thing most people will say is like but it's awesome. It's like
It's awesome, but it doesn't thing is actually
In in the first three movies the payoffs are awesome and in fun and everything
thematically, but like up
By speaking it's it's bullshit
I feel like where you go with that was kind of like what toy story falls payoffs are like the tlj ones
Where it's like, no, did you bugle your payoffs? But why are these your payoffs?
Why did you try to get here?
but that was the um, that was that was the uh, I mean we took a lot of other notes that
Overall, like i'd say are not worth bringing up on stream just because we have a lot of ground cover
um, we got through the big ones with toy story one there and we ended up on
Evan and I agreed it was a seven out of ten like objectively like for a writing quality
And then subjectively it was like a nine out of ten
I think it was like a
Soft seven maybe like closer to a six due to like some of the other stuff
Like there's a few things which I think are more fundamental
But I definitely think like the good outweighs the bad for sure for sure
There's a lot of good character development in the movie. Oh, yeah
Such which brings us to toy story soon. Yeah
Yep
This is the one you hate a lot of this
Yeah, this is the worst
The worst it's
It's the
Done. It's there. There wasn't a movie made after this that was certainly a lot worse. Um
We actually we didn't overall have that many problems, but the
There was
Um, so one thing that's worth noting and this is not a criticism. This is a note for to keep in mind for later
is
Woody is set up to be very insecure over never being played with again by andy early in the film
This is the central theme of his like character development in toy story two
It's why this movie is damaged the most by
toy story four, um
for a
like on an on an issue level
Do you i'm trying to find the traffic cones notes evan
Um says that the actually the first note that we had like for a decent flow with the film like that might be actually
Yes, like um
T2 was great. I love jesse and zorg
I just picture like a retarded zig
I am zorg zorg. I am zorg
um, so
Yeah, like other than the contrivance about al being the one that steals woody at the beginning and it's not just any
Someone that the toys would have enough clues to to like discover
And like there's feathers that fly out of this trunk and that gives buzz just the thing he needs
You know like oh it has to be al from al's toy bar and the commercial that dude. I just saw on tv
Imagine being al the guy who's like you need a woody doll. It's incredibly rare. Nobody has it you go to this random
Like car boot sale type thing
Someone's house you just happen across it and they have the woody doll like that would be
Like fucking the grace of god has touched you at that point. Like this is exactly what I need
Addie's got the hat addie's in like perfect condition. It's like holy shit
Yeah, um
Now the thing with uh, well actually he wasn't in perfect condition his arm was was still partially torn
Because that happens like pretty
Like before the the yard sale
But close close to perfect condition. Um, yeah, but the big the big one the first big one is a
company
When they're when they're crossing from the side of the street that where al's apartment is over to al's toy barn
They're using traffic cones, which you know
They're trying to stay in cover and avoid being spotted by humans
Which is nice that they're still sticking to this rule at this point in the series. Um
What they're doing in this scene is they um, they cause a collision because they're like, all right drop
And they create a formation
That's like, uh, it causes a car to immediately turn
Right, and then they get their tires popped by like a like a
Strip
And then that car gets rear ended by a second car
now
If you got into a collision because of some misplaced traffic
Cones, what would you guys be doing as soon as you get out of the car?
Probably wondering why the hell are these traffic cones here?
But here's the thing
The other drivers, okay
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's that's a given that probably it's called police and my insurance provider
And I would talk with them and I would give them the deets and what happened and then
I suppose I would get all my information from them for if we were going to take this to court or
Whatever the proceedings would be and I would talk with the other driver and see if there was a way that we could
settle things based on the damage and
Then I wonder what the fuck the cones were doing in the road
Those are those are those are pretty pretty good ideas
But um, i'd make sure the other person didn't have corona virus
Make sure my car didn't get corona virus from the collision. I like they did right absolutely walking toward the guy like are you okay?
He goes
Yeah, you go. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa, buddy. He's like, whoa. Fuck it. Just good. Just go just go
It's not worth it. It's not worth it
But of course that doesn't happen in the movie, of course because the toys then continue moving across the street
There's a a big truck that's that's um
Carrying this giant cement cylinder to do a jackknife and it clutters up the road
That cylinder almost crushes Mr. Potato Head and he gets away just by the skin of his teeth
And um, they do this establishing shot after they ditch the cones
Exist to make us like laugh right? We're like, oh my god, look what they just did
But it's like you see there's two people
Misery
the the first
Got into that rear-ending collision
They're outside and they apparently just didn't notice that the the cones were not
Uh where they originally?
Religion happened that caused the collision
And it's like I would call this a like not just a contrivance. It's a plot hole. It's caused by
improbable
On these motorists part a plot hole
Yes
But I will say this there is actually something uh interesting about this
If you look at this picture here, um, they're behind these newspaper machines when they ditch the cones
they're still trying to stay in cover and the
Actually obscuring most of the car's line of sight
Like yeah, try to draw a diagonal line from where the the tail end of the truck is
To the newspaper machines and it's like oh, yeah, the toys would actually be sufficiently covered up from those
dozens of
Inconvenience drivers there, but the two
Collision they should have noticed
I was about to say the nice thing about the newspaper machines is it shows that they cared it shows that the
Filmmaker is like okay. The toys would find cover afterwards. This is how they're not exactly spotted
I think the bigger issue is that the motorists that are that crash first don't see them
Because you hear in homes saying imagine thinking this when watching this movie
Have you watched efap before?
I mean like the fucking program we kind of apply this to everything
It's not yeah, you don't we don't patrick williams it and say it's a kids film
It gets to have these things. It's like no kids
Everything gets the same standards everything gets treated the same way how you want to value that is on you
But I enjoy finding all these little issues and things and discussing them and whether or not it does or doesn't show
Well, I mean the part of what we'll say the great things about these movies is when they're actually like nailing these rules
Right and sticking to everything. Oh, yeah
And there's a lot of that actually
so yeah, like for instance later in the in the airport when they're sneaking themselves in and they're they're in the
And I was thinking buzz lightyear's legs are going through that dog kennel in order for them to
To get in right
You like so do hopefully they have like holes cut into the bottom
And then when the toys get knocked out of the dog kennel when they're in the like at the beginning of the conveyor belt
It actually shows the bottom of the dog kennel and there are indeed two holes cut in there for buzz's legs
And uh, it's those sorts of things where they they do
Uh quite a few times in that movie and we were like, oh my god, they actually like we we talked about the oh
So did they cut a couple holes in there?
Um, they showed that like after we pointed that out, you know, oh my god, they accounted for for that question
So that's good. That's that's um
Our selection of toys in these movies. I wonder if they're particularly good or particularly bad at staying secret
I wonder if the toys as a whole are really good at this or they just really get into any kind of adventures because
You'd think if this was like average, it's like yeah, this has been blown open by now then at least be some person
When they come into I guess we can compare it to the groups of toys that they come into contact with over time
Because like the play group ones we've established the existence of lost toys
And they go on adventures and that's what they do like that's that their normal thing is to go on these lucky adventures
I don't know how long we can keep this up
Exactly. Yeah, we're about with it
Well, it's like um, I you know the story that you make should be like if you're setting a universe where toys
You should you certainly be focusing on the stories that are happening that are going to be the most interesting
and if the toys are just being very rigid about the rules to the point where
Their owner's room no matter what that's going to make for a more boring story
and so i'm okay with the idea if we're going to focus on this group of toys that
Host other toys in the world we can
You know assume maybe um if we're being very charitable to these movies like these are the the ones that are like the
That comes to this rule
Um where they they will be cautious, but they're still risky
But they're shown as being very like efficient
especially in like the opening scene of the uh, if toy story one and even at the beginning of
Toy story four just the this unspoken communication. They're so good at this. They don't have to say anything to each other
He just gives the order
You have sids you have uh, the plan that woody comes up with that uh sids house like he manages like
They need to figure out a way to get rid of scud
He does that and also they they they managed to get um
They managed to save buzz and they managed to deal with sit like they they plan things out like very thoroughly
That's something that's in all the films. So
You know what i'm thinking what we're thinking as well is that where are the?
cameras and al's toy barn
Has al like never looked through security footage and seen the barbies having a party in their little aisle and
and all
cameras and the toys awareness of aforementioned security cameras could be
Because I know there's this meme on the internet
Maybe you guys heard of it, but there's the internet not the meme. That's what I was going. There's a cartoon I found and it's
Where the toys are having a good time in the rooms and stuff
But then like one of the parents gets like a baby monitor that is a running 24 seven
And so they're just their lives are over essentially
They're just toys forever now because they're under constant surveillance
I'm wondering that's that's actually a an issue
You know when?
The the temptation of going to the museum in is it japan in toy story two?
Like that's considered a great thing like a toy's okay with basically being on a stand not being able to do anything
Is that trapped in a glass box for the rest of its existence for years and years?
Is that a preferable situation according to i didn't think about that
But yeah, that's that that is the implication one of the it's the idea of living forever
to be fair if we stuck with the idea that the
existence of the toys to facilitate the happiness of either children or
Maybe the young at heart if you want to stretch it that way then being old gold and adored all day by thousands of people
Is I mean
It is the best thing that can happen to a toy
Oh, well, actually stinky peat actually does say something
Sort of accounts for this issue where he uh, he says
When he's like defeated he's like idiots children destroy toys. You'll be ruined forgotten
Cutting in some landfill and I think he sees the museum as an alternative where if he's in a museum
He's never going to be become trash. Basically
You mean toys shouldn't want to be trapped. Oh my god. Wait a second
They have to no no
The way it works is so let's take woody
For example, you tear him into little pieces you drop it all in the trash you take it back out reassemble him
He will now want to be in trash. That's how that works
And plus oh my god, that would be
I am wordy
Oh, how's he fucking sad?
Oh
the other thing with the whole museum thing that's nice is that uh, um, jesse clearly has been traumatized by like, um,
Being stuck in storage. That's something that like a prospector like mentions and they're they don't want to go back into storage
They literally she literally says I don't I won't go back in the dark. I won't go back in the dark. Yeah
but the museum is
So well, I don't know is the museum
I mean, I guess stinky peat would consider it
Fucking name stinky peat. Yes
but
Is that different for him or is it similar because he considers it like a prestige thing, right?
Like he's he's appreciated instead of ignored
It's almost like yeah, we'll be dead but they'll make statues of us that's what the thing and the other one's like no
I think he thinks like he'll be able to still move around at nighttime or something. I guess
It's kind of like the villain at the end of national treasure, too
Who saves everybody as long as they promised to tell the world that he was the one who found it
That's right. Yeah, this is where my brain is right now, by the way
Wait, what's this? What's this next? Remember national treasure, too
okay, so uh
So we notice
There's the scene where they're at where the buzz with the utility belt and the other uh friends of woody they're scaling up this
And then when they enter this this air duct to get to woody and they're on the top floor the camera pans down to
uh, the og
We know underneath the elevator and i'm thinking
How did he get here exactly? How did he know that this is what will take him to?
other toys and everything
And also he's underneath the elevator in that position where he's like holding himself in it's like buzz
How are you going to get out of there?
Yes, he does. It's like you're stuck on the underside of this thing holding on with your
There's like sort of an eye beam essentially and there could be something for him to grip on to like right below
if it's uh symmetrically designed
Because you look at the um at the top of it of that beam and they're like something's protracting
probably
He could probably do it
But at the same time it's like how does well assuming buzz is a competently
Yeah, is is intelligent to any degree do we do this?
I mean in toyster two he's pretty fucking smart like they do this really cool detective work shit to figure out like where where
And who took him and buzz is the one that's masterminding
Uh, most of the stuff that they do in this movie that you know allows them to uh achieve
oh
um
When they get to woody in the uh, oh actually before we go on to that
Um when woody has one arm
Walking through a minefield of cheese puffs to get to a sleeping al who has his arm in in his pocket
His severed arm in his pocket
um
The wow, this is fucking darkest shit without context
well
um al
Up by the tv being turned on and the remote is in front of jesse's glass
But they reveal later that it was stinky pete who turned the the
And what i'm thinking is so did jesse not see stinky pete get out of his box
turn on the tv
And frame her
Yeah, yeah, she would have had to have seen him put the controller in front of her or using the controller where it was
Yes, but it's a shock to jesse
Stinky pete was the one that turned the tv on unless so her eyes open
I mean, I know that's pretty long, but
But they're always no her her eyes
They're wide open because she's like frozen as a toy
Like like I was curious if is the even the weakest defense of oh, she was sleeping the whole time or something
I don't know
That's that's an actually kind of sleep that toys could do with their eyes open
I don't even think it would work because the top the tv would have woken her up, right?
Uh, yeah, she should have actually
Stinky pete at least walking away
And she she'd be able to figure it out instantly if assuming that jesse is smart, which you know
Well
Yeah, we'll get there. She is
I don't know if yeah the efap charger if you've noticed what we're doing is preamble before uh, the main course if you will
Yeah, I mean we could address
We're just toying with the idea of covering videos
Well, yeah, some people like where's the video it's like, uh, we're not done with the intro we'll get there
It's coming. It's coming. So it's like so um, then there's like there's uh, you get to the
uh, the different toys reaching wood
And woody now wants to go be in the museum and I wanted to just share this line
Um, which is this is not a criticism. It's not even
Something to keep in mind for when we talk about toy story four buzz says
Somewhere in that pad of stuffing is a toy who taught me that life's only worth living if you're being
And I traveled all this way to rescue that toy because I believed him
Woody responds with well, you wasted your time. It's like the point of this scene
Woody develops past that and he wants to go back to andy and then toy story four
regresses him back to that
Uh, seriously that scene though
Audience with buzz and woody is like so like well put together
Like what woody is thinking right now makes sense because of like what jesse told him about emily and like all the
All the stuff he's gone through talking with them and the the idea of them going back into storage
like it makes perfect sense like why woody is thinking this way it's not just like
He decided this one day because of that
He spent a little time like they build on it and like their conflict makes sense. So
And uh as as they're about to wall
Like buzz. This is my last chance and buzz responds to what woody to be watched by children through glass and never be loved again
Some life which kind of accounts for what?
asked earlier
It's it's acknowledged by the characters in universe and this is what I would consider to be strong writing like the writers account for what?
question on the audience's mind
And uh have that be presented to a character in universe and challenge their development
That's a good thing. Mm-hmm. I think um nitpick here is uh, so there's a fight with zerg on top of the elevator
and uh
Has infinite ammo. There's no way that he should be able to shoot out as many like
Balls pellets, whatever they are from his gun
Yeah
Nerf things and he unlocked the infinite ammo cheat apparently which is
A nitpick because it's just it's a small little scene zerg is overall like pointless, but it's just
Fun little scene that happens there and um, most people like that scene. I think uh, even though
It's like very briefly
Then concluded like rather quickly
uh in like around the end of the second act so
um
we have uh, so
scene, um
They're they try using slinky to rescue woody from the luggage that he's in and sneaky Pete drags him
and um
uh al is like dragging this luggage behind him and he somehow doesn't hear like his
His toys are in like opening and then closing, you know
um
Which is you know a bit convenient and there's also there's
In this lobby seeing this rescue attempt by slinky
Um, so that's a little that's a little convenient there
Oh, you're talking about like the not getting caught because I remember that they're quite, uh in the open after that
Next attempt at the elevator from slinky. Yeah, they're just there and it's like
Yeah, the
Riskiest that they get in the first three movies. I think they're they're definitely exposed
um
so
Things that we know like, okay, so, uh, we noted that, you know
Woody does not abandon jesse and goes out of his way to keep her from being taken to japan
at this point he's with his friends they could
place and
Jesse is you know, like the whole climax is she's put on a plane that's about to take off
They have to rescue her and bring her to to andy
It's just that's a thing about woody's character is he is very loyal to his friends
um
now the next big thing that we noticed was
In the same way like rc was able to keep up with the moving truck in the first movie
Uh, this is the the this is the pattern with every payoff in the toys
no sense
Um, so when woody and jesse jumped from the plane and onto buzz and bullseye the plane immediately takes off afterwards
Plane is going at a hundred miles down an hour down the uh the tarmac
And that means that bullseye was able to keep up with the plane fucking a horse
Full of determination toy horses man, you don't know i'm just saying
Yeah, uh and e-man we're not bashing toy story. We're like we're pointing out
We're we're applying at the same standard that we
Yeah, like we're not just gonna go toy story one through three perfect four is the bad one
It's like let's just have a look at them all with this level and see what happens because
I have a feeling and and the other three are not gonna have as many issues as number four. That's just my
Oh, yeah, that's just your opinion because uh
Was we did this so that we could make sure that toy story four really was as inconsistent with the other movies as
We initially thought because when I first saw toys
I hadn't seen the first three movies in a while, but I just had this gut reaction to it
Like oh, that's not what woody would do. That's not what buzz would do. That's not how buzz is supposed to be
Uh, this was our first this was my first time watching those movies in a long time. I'm talking like over half a decade
And uh, wow, that's hold up. That's six to
nine years
Very astute, right? Um
Well, anyways, um
Evan do you want to write down this uh, the pretty much the last big criticism that we wrote it down for
What is not a nitpick that's like the finale rests upon his ability. Oh, I didn't I didn't I didn't I didn't call that a nitpick
I said no, no, it was sort of chat
This is what we talked about this is the difference
This is whether or not something is a nitpick is whether or not this problem
Is like very important to the plot or affects the plot
Like it is no longer a nitpick when the finale of the movie rests upon this
Yeah
It happened in the first two movies that everyone unanimously agrees are
Okay, not just toy story three or toy story four even the toy story four takes this problem to the nth degree
And we'll get to that. But is that like the math version of the inward?
Yes, yeah to the n-word degree
um
But yeah, that's that's a that's a big problem
problem, um
But evan you're the one I've noticed this would you like to yeah
This is something that was like clearly meant for a gag
This is probably similar to the whole tax like falling off or it's like
They want like a bit of dramatic effect and a joke
They when the toys get back. The reason they do is because they drove back the baggage cart
from the airport
It's like how?
Do that without like the the people who are running the airport noticing let alone the cops like you drive that
All right, what well what year was toy story two made
Was it was two thousand and ninety nine two thousand two thousand nine. Yeah in a post 9 11 world
There's no way they'd fucking get away with that. It's not 2009. Yeah, it was in 1999
Oh 1999 I can buy it then
Buy that they would take a cart and they would no it's fucking ridiculous
Yeah, it's just something it's a tough one, yeah
So and yeah, but it's like but it's still decent
In in spite of all this though
Went through like our neat our neat pics and our praises is enough everything. Yeah
Our overall assessment of toy story two is it has the strongest character work in the series by far and
um
It like even with these issues
Redeemed it like uh
I give it like a soft nine out of ten objectively evan gives it an eight
And subjectively like in terms of how much we
We uh, it's a 10 out of 10 for both of us. Um, even with the bullseye thing. It's a nine out of 10
objectively
um
10 uh, a lot of it's um
There's a few things i'm just yeah
All right, you can all right give me shit for giving it nine in spite of that
Um
Um
So we didn't go over all the neat pics and all the strong stuff
That's true. We are why we call it a neat pics
Eat rags rags rags. You need to stop you need to stop because this is something that they're referencing from my work
And you have no idea
I don't I can't fuck your videos are 12 days long. I can't remember
I think it's reasonable people are gonna be disappointed that you don't remember what that is. That's that's what's gonna happen
Oh
There's gonna be sad faces in chat. No, they're gonna be like, I don't remember shit for my own videos rags rags for
It's hard stuff. And now you're going long man bad here. Like i'm not saying it's bad. I'm saying there's a reason
It's okay, let's do it right so
Rags if a nitpick is like highlighting something that's relatively inconsequential, but still a flaw
What would you call something that's relatively inconsequential but actually a pretty cool plus like a detail that I call that
That sounds like a neat pick. That sounds like a pun i'd make
Yeah, that's that's what I that's why I called it that I was just like it's the easiest
I believe you i'm not saying it's
What what have I done
I think neat pick is a great thing to call them. That sounds like something i'd call them
I like how in the middle of all the sad faces. There's the sex channel being like check out this
I'll give you a video where you won't forget any details you could but no and also
Also to clarify this was not taken like this all of these notes that we took
Weren't recounted from memory evan and I literally watched these movies
And took notes as we watched we paused the movie to discuss
Criticisms that we had before writing them down and going yep. Yep. That's a problem
Being recounted from a hazy memory
Um on to toy story three. Oh wait before we do that. There's two things to note
So this is the last movie that bo peep appears in
Before she is not in toy story three
And we noticed that through both of the first movies
Bo peep does not act at all the way she does in the opening
before
So very interesting. She's very feminine and docile because she's oh that's sex
Having a female be feminine is sexist. Probably
Yep
Doing anything else would probably be sexist too
All right. So by the rules of toy story as we understand them. Can there be trans toys?
Or is it why not, I don't know how does it work how does it
Wait, we don't like I figured out life of death yet. So I think we gotta
A lot of rules life of death is simple compared to what this trend stuff is nowadays
There's the line from bo peep where she says maybe I can get someone else to watch the sheep tonight that implies the toys can have sex
By the way, that's where the screen caps that that's where the
the
Some of this live stream comes from that's where you go
Right after she says that
Story one was edgy
Yeah
But before we we go on to toy story three, let's talk about that final line of toy story two where would he
Be fun while it lasts referring to the fact that andy's growing up and they won't be played with uh as often
Sick of watching him awkwardly figure out how to masturbate
Yeah, yeah
And when it all ends he says and when it all ends i'll have buzz lightyear to keep me company for infinity and beyond
yay
last line
It's aged like
Singing it's it is aged like butter like semen
Yeah
I was saying hey semen age really well i've seen the lighthouse
It's true
What I would say is like this like what I said is that toy story three should not be good
When you just look at the concept because toy story two ends
Well, I was unhappy to know that three was being made. I was like, oh
Surely the story's done. So imagine how I felt about toy story
And they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they're 25 2025
Uh, yeah, I was just like toy story three is really effective and we're gonna get into it
But I remember just like
The thing I was noting is i'm like, I think that this film is great just by the sheer lack of flaws
Like there wasn't all that much to even nitpick. Most of it is like really tightly written. It's like
How the how the toys behave it's it's really interesting. So yeah, either we're missing something or toy story three is a lot stronger than
we remembered and um
like
You know
So we noted things that were relevant for toy story four the fact that andy clearly hasn't played with his toys in a long time
They are craving his attention, you know, but
With him all this time
There's uh, oh evan go ahead and read out this thing that you wrote which is uh, i'd say it's a fair point
Toy story three. Yeah
Well, this is this is honestly my biggest issue with toy story three is that they don't do much with the the characters other than buzz
And woody was like how they they behave like they don't
like a lot of them have choices that they make what they all decide is that they go to sunny side and
There isn't much character-based reasoning for that like they don't like have different perspectives on
Woody the the key reason for it is because they thought that andy was trying to throw them away
But the trouble is he didn't and it was like the the attic went up and then andy's mom came by that's a contrivance
But it also makes it so that everyone turns against woody
They all decide to go to sunny side because of that so i'm like that's a decent contrivance
Which is built upon and i'm like I think the writing could have been stronger at least character-wise if they like they lose
Their trust temporarily because they feel he's like lied to them
Exactly. Yes, no
I think you could like you could have had slink or someone like that
Like I think he would have believed woody
Like I think that there you could have had other toys who are like maybe on woody's side
You could have had it so there's maybe a little bit more conflict
But everyone just seems to uniformly think like he tried to throw us away
Let's say here and and like woody's the only one is like no, we need to stick together
We need to go back to andy and so there's like no we're staying here. So it's like, uh
But again, it's just it's the trouble is it just built upon something which was contrived and the characters are uniform
Oh after this though, there's another one that happened shortly after that
so woody and buzz are talking in the trunk of andy's mom's car and uh
This is like like woody moves to the like kind of the behind of a box
He's no longer in in view of where andy's mom would be but buzz is off to like to the side. He should be
And they're not exactly being quiet and shortly after the conversation andy's mom appears and closes the trunk
and we're thinking uh
Otis woody and buzz talking or at least buzz sort of standing up and walking around in the trunk of the car when she closed it
um, like that's the sort of thing that you like you could
a
window of the trunk maybe
um
but
maybe it's
Uh, maybe there are counter arguments against it
And it could provide them
Um, and also the other thing about yeah plot contrivances is that while?
uh
Hopefully possible, uh, even though highly unlikely to happen
Um, I actually give a fair amount of uh concessions to ones that occur
very early on in the story to kick off the the plot like i'm fine with uh
Sort of um, it's the inciting incident
uh clause of the
Yeah, it's basically like I think the example most people give is um
You have your characters down in the dumps for like two hours and then right at the end they win the lottery you're like
Damn, that was lucky for them as opposed to the story begins with them winning the lottery
It's just like oh, well people win the lottery. So we're just following a guy who won the lottery. That's all
Exactly. It's yeah, it's a story and you don't resolve it with like contrivances or luck. It's
the the first john wick movie opens with a contrivance he
uh
Theon at a gas station
And that kicks off the plot. I would I would say it's twofold as well
The fact that he has no idea who john wick is as a person
Yes, despite being the son of the guy who like john wick is incredibly tangled with
Oh, I don't consider the fact that I don't consider the
The idea of john wick bumping into a random guy that wants his car and breaks into his house and kills a puppy
Like if it was just a random guy, I wouldn't call that a contrivance. Yeah, I'm mostly fine with that myself
It's it's fine with that
It's more contrived when it's someone that's related to a guy that john wick knows
used to work for
like yes, sensitively
Um, that's a contrivance, but it's the inciting incident and the rest of the movie is written really well
And then john wick two and three are not
so
Um, how dare you say something so brave?
Hey, man, I remember I was I was pitching that fucking point of view
Like since efap started as far as i'm aware
It's it's finally once metal gets his john wick three video out. We'll we'll red pill everybody it's gonna happen
um evan
Now read out this highlighted thingy that you wrote down
Yeah, this is this is one like, um sunny side essentially is established as having like, um
The the the butterfly room in the caterpillar room inside of the butterfly room all the the kids like play with the toys calmly
They're very like mellow and then the caterpillar room. They're all just destroying it
Like mr. Potato is like it's like stuffed in this kid's nose and they're like they're painting them
The the thing is really horrifying
Yeah, it's it's fun. It makes for a funny scene when they get there though
Everyone seems really calm like all the toys are like saying like hello
They're they're nice and then after that they start hiding it's weird that all of them just act naturally
It's like they like they don't think this is a horrifying situation
Like you you'd imagine they despise lotso and they'd like they'd be warning them, but they don't so
Scared into submission
I I know people to come up. It's it's just a decent thing which i'm like, uh
Yeah, because like that's one of the reasons is why they they stay there is because everything seems nice
And if it didn't it probably wouldn't so
um
let's see, uh
there's a
woody is um
So he's trying to to leave sunny side
While the rest of the toys stay behind because they haven't been moved to the caterpillar
Right. They don't think that this is a miserable place
but woody insists on getting back to andy and so
he's uh trying to escape sunny side and
There comes this janitor who's rolling this uh this cart around and um
Wait, what what?
Is that nothing you just said, you know, it's it's all good. Ignore me. Okay. Okay janitors work
I did well no
so so he
He uh grabs onto like the bottom of the janitor's car. He's like moving through sunny side undetected like this is great
He has figured out a very clever way
even
Against that, you know, he can move through here undetected. He's taken to a bathroom and while the um
Uh, the janitor is distracted
Okay, i'll uh go into this bathroom stall and i'm going to climb out to this like climb up to this window
This open window that he uh jumped out of
And just as he's about to get from like the wall of the stall and onto the windowsill
The janitor looks up and he's like wait a minute and there's like this moment
the movie makes you think that the janitor just spotted woody in the mirror and he like
Uh, then it like sort of focuses in on the mirror itself and it turns out
That is very conveniently
Where woody would have been seen by the janitor. So it's like
um
It's like it's a funny little
You think that woody's just been busted, but they subvert your expectations
But it's like super lucky that
That smudge is on that very specific part of the
Yeah, just enough time to then yeah, it's
That's uh, I don't know if we'd call that a nitpick or if that's a
more big contrivance
I guess it's the the likelihood of a smudge
like being
That perfectly placed for that perfect reason. It's like
Yeah for him to not turn around it's and instead off to clean it so it's
Decent but it doesn't bother me because I thought it was fucking hilarious
and um
Seem as like it's it's not the worst contrivance i've seen so I was able to like move along from it
But i'll i'll i'll concede it's a it's a contrivance. I want to draw attention to it's literally just a joke for fuck's sake
Like do you want to use that defense for dlj?
Exactly, right. He threw the lightsaber's fucking joke guys. It was a funny. No, that's okay
That wasn't even necessarily a joke. I think I don't even know
Well, i'm i'm saying it doesn't bother me because it was funny, but I still call it a
Contrivance. Sure. Well, this is the thing, you know, you have to be careful with this sort of stuff
You can make a joke in your movie that could fuck with everything on accident
You can you can easily break universal rules with a joke
Go be careful
Yep
It's the execution
and so let's
There's a thing that we know where dolly the the little plushy with purple hair in uh, bonnie's room
Is very pleasant in this movie
Very rather nice character
Even if she's only in like a couple scenes and it's interesting to see where that where that goes in toy story four
um
She's a fucking bitch
Oh
Well, don't don't spoil it rags gosh
Um, so they're doing this escape plan
Story three and in the like at the sunny side
Place and they come up with a really clever plan to
Escape and they're they're all working together as a team. And this is the thing that really
Movies is they're mostly like working together as a team and they're really good at it
And there's the type of synergy and teamwork in all the the way
unique attributes to
execute a plan very well
and that's missing in toy story four, of course because
every original
Bow and buzz and woody are sidelined and just stuck in an rv the entire movie
um
but uh
There's a thing where
Thrown into a sandbox that's basically used by latso and his minions as like a sort of like a solitary confinement cell
and there's a
A little cork essentially that he's able to uh push out and then throw each one of his body parts through
but then he like
He's done though. Like the last thing that jumps out is his um, his other arm and i'm thinking
How did his other arm jump out?
It's kind of hard to dive into it without like a visual representation
um, but for anyone that's listening and hopefully my mic isn't
I'm explaining this
Um, yeah, you can go back and look you miss like one word per sentence
Like I said, it's most of the time you can tell what you're saying. There's some times where i'm like, wait
What it's like a mini game. Yeah, okay
It's it's obviously it's just it's just really unfortunate if you miss out on like one word that defines your entire sentence almost
It's just like oh and if like well if that happens just ask me to repeat myself. I have no problem with that. Um, and I i'm
My internet is shit guys
But i'm planning on like that's why I can't stream at the moment. So
Uh, i'm like we're we're having to upgrade our internet at some point, but we're we're having a difficult time
Uh an isp that's that's good in our area. So it does sound like you're internet rather than your microphone
Because this is doing the a bit of robotting right before you cut out
So it's weird because i'm i'm at i'm at four bars and i'm sitting
Like two feet away from the router and we are in singapore. So
Oh my god, mhm singapore. Why?
Evan I want you to read out these next two bullet points and uh, we can we can talk about
I kind of already went over the whole thing with uh, the characters could have been more developed if they had reason more character-based
My side would you like to talk about the bucket that's uh
Oh, man, this is the part where the movie sheets so there's this there's this scene
It's like really dramatic
It's like where the plan might be screwed up where one of the aliens falls
Um while they're like trying to get around the baby and it squeaks and then it alerts um big baby to see
It turns around it's walking towards them woody and the aliens are both hiding and then the baby comes and then they're gone
And it's because they like hid underneath a bucket and it's like there's no way they could do that without like being seen
So they had to teleport in
Yeah, they they straight up teleport into that bitch
um
and
So that's a plot hole. That's not just a contrivance there. That's like
You literally contradicted the previous shot there. You considered it an impossibility that they could have done it. Yeah
It's it's without introducing
the the ability to teleport
Or at least move
I feel like that would have more implications
It makes
Um, go on it makes perfect sense the toys can teleport now
That's something to introduce
That's the kind of uh logic you get from you know
People try to defend what disney of double star wars like the force could do that now it just can
Yeah, it's just a force whatever it needs to do whenever it needs to do it. It can now do those things
Yeah, whatever we're showing hey, it's it's a scene that establishes a new
War what do you call them when the plot has plot armor?
When the plot has plot armor impossible for there to be a plot hole because it just means that's yeah because the force
Oh, it's like I guess if you were to make like a meta story that's kind of satirizing bad writing like you have a character
It's literally given
something that
Summer and that's how it functions. It's like making fun of that. Maybe
You're sort of acknowledging like, um emperor's new groove has a plot hole in how it
gets you the palace at the end and they acknowledge it and it's it's a joke and uh,
They're all categorizing plot holes. Basically. Yeah, I love that. I love that line
Yeah, um
So it works because it's like the run movie self-aware that stuff
You can get away with it's meta
Okay
Emperor's new groove is amazing
Actually emperors new groove. I feel like space balls in a movie that totally takes advantage of that kind of craft if you will
yeah, it's it's um, it's uh
Basically plot hole proof because it makes fun of it's okay. The jay finds it boring guys. It's okay. It's okay
Um
So, let's see, uh evan
This point he wrote this down
Uh, oh, yeah, this is something that uh saupa had a little bit of a bigger problem with is that like lotso. Um
Like uh lotso essentially goes on this big old villain monologue
He like just loses his mind and then that forces big baby to betray him and put him in the dumpster
And it's like throughout the film. He's been very level-headed and
All of a sudden he turns into this maniacal like villain who's like
ranting about toys the thing that I think helps is that uh, what he brought up daisy and he literally threw the uh
the the um
The heart-shaped thing that had um daisy's name on it to big baby
So it's like it's i'm guessing that's a part of lotso's past that he just has tried to bury and he doesn't want like anyone
To bring that up. So it just the mere sack was brought and it like yeah triggers
It just like it it it like brings back all the memories and that's like
But also similar scene why did you say that name?
Oh, yeah
At least there's up to it though. That's the thing is like I I don't buy that the whole like slow motion like martha
Was like set up for something like that. That scene is so cheesy
It comes out of nowhere
It's like they build it instead of this movie because you have the whole flashback explaining everything so you know his past
So there's something there. So
Yeah, so it's still a little bit
Convenient to save the day that like that's that's how they defeat the villain more or less is that
It gets big baby to turn against them. So
um, and then
Basically the last uh, I think I sort of noticed
a movie
that I wrote down at least was um, so buzz has this he gets like reprogrammed by lotso and his goons to
Toy story one, okay
And it's like that's fine. It's not a character regression. It's done against his will there's an explanation for it
It's fine. He's not just doing this out of nowhere
And they try reprogramming him and they accidentally make him into like a latino stereotype, uh, which is kind of funny
The latin lover basically the very smooth and suave kind of like zoro type person
And um, he seduces the shit out of jessie, doesn't he?
Oh, yes
the way that he's reverted back to uh
To his regular self though is a tv falls on top of him
um
Uh, like I don't know if that's a problem in and of itself. It's like percussive maintenance is a
thing that sometimes does work in my experience
Gives me a good whack and it like
Sets it straight. Uh, but something that people have said has well buzz is retarded in toy story four because a tv
And that must have like damaged his brain or something his but
His his brain. Oh, they don't have this
well, the other thing the other thing is like
That that aside setting that aside is like he isn't he's clearly not stupid even after he uh
Has this happen?
And I think that that renders that defense for how he is in toy story four like totally moot
Your honor this man is clearly brain damaged objection. My client lacks the necessary organs to be
Now the rest are all evan and the first one that he's going to read out here
The pattern of toy stories ultimate payoffs not making any sense
it happened in one with the flying it happened in two with
A super fast bullseye and now it happened to number three and evan you can take it from here
It's so unfortunate because I swear I love the endings of all three toy story movies
But it's like yeah, they don't make much sense. So the aliens get separated
This is this is a great setup and payoff by the way because like it's something that you can easily forget about
The aliens get separated from the rest of the toys when a dump truck passes by they were like literally
Noting another crane if like they said the claw and then it gets pushed they get pushed away
So then the toys all like get like thrown into this giant incinerator and then the aliens save them with a crane
And then they say like the claw they're inside of this big old like control room. It's like, how did they get into there?
How did they know?
That they were going to like be thrown into that incinerator
It's just it's something that does not make much sense at all
There's like there's no way they could pull that off or or would have any knowledge that that was happening
So and that is a hard seed to criticize because a lot of people find it to be very uh,
you know
close to this
This is the trouble is the old three endings are like so emotionally satisfying but they don't make much sense at least
Components of them don't but they're built up to really well and they like serve like an ending for the arc
And yeah, that that scene is like that's hard to watch for a lot of people. It was really emotional in the theater. So yeah, it's
It's a great scene in that respect, but yeah for the cameras at least for the resolution. It doesn't make much sense
not to mention like there's this thing where um in uh, like as their
incinerator this is before lots of betrays them but um slinky like there's this magnet that um slinky is uh
Like and so all the toys then realize oh
In order to get past this obstacle or like it's actually this like this thresher thing that will
completely destroy the toys if they
Get magnetized to the top of this chute essentially and uh, they um, they grab onto something metal
and uh woody tries like grabbing I think it's like a golf club to use as like, um, um
Uh, what's the what's the term it's uh, it's not like a it's not a lever it's um
fulcrum a fulcrum. Yes. Oh
Well
Would it be a fulcrum? It's like he's he's I don't even know you're talking about so maybe well, so sorry
so so so no, um, so lots of is like
And he's what he's trying to put this golf club down to like
more leverage
out of it, you know
A wedge sorry a wedge so he tries using this wedge basically
And it's about to like take him up and buzz like
Uh jumps on it and that adds more weight
And going up then lots of gets freed and then lots of grabs onto the golf club
And now suddenly all three of them are taken up to the top by the golf club
and then
is like
Uh, they all drop down all the other toys can drop down naturally, but the question is okay
If there's a magnet up there, how is
And he just gets down without any explanation and uh, I call that a problem
Um, there's another thing about slinky that uh evan notices
Um, i've highlighted it here for him to read out
It's a small thing first of all, there's something above that but yeah
There's just this shot where you see slink jump onto the roof and that's like how everyone else gets like update they'll
Repel upwards that's something that wasn't answered in toy story, too
But it's like it's it's like he can jump to the top of a toy of a two-story building
It's like how did you pull that off? So
And then um
There's this as well
This is uh, this is similar to uh, the whole thing with the cart but uh, like sit or at least like what we're left to
believe is sit the the
person who's the the
Garbage man lord, lord forbid the garbage man who is uh patrols the streets
He just so happens to be at the dump at that exact time
They're like, how do we get back? We're at a dump and then sits there. It's like oh
Okay, we'll convene. Well, it's okay because sid was mean to the inanimate objects he'd believed
It connects it's a theme. So don't don't feel sorry for him
Even though he did nothing wrong. Wow
You think it's okay that he blew up combat carl even if he wasn't
Non-sentient
Even if he wasn't sent well, I mean
Well does you mean doesn't know that comic carl sentient? That's my point
It's like he's the I think the film is condemning him whether or not they're sentient
Oh, like angry children shouldn't break and destroy things and get enjoyment from that. That's a bad. This is a potential
Yeah, it's kind of messed up that it's just messed up that this thing you did as a kid. You are a villain forever
Is this kind of a fucked up moral
We don't know what else he you know, he was became a garbage but he could be a very happy friendly garbage man
We don't know
So what do people suggest listening to the music? He's he's all happy and like people say definitely not coping
Enjoying his uh
His his job at least but yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah the slaves. Oh, look at him. They're singing out there in the fields
They love it. They're having a great time
If you had like an after credits therapy scene where they're like, you still still see those toys in your dreams and he's like every day
Seriously, no one will believe me no matter how many times I don't even know if I believe me anymore
What is real what's in my mind i'm a wreck i'm a wreck doc
To be now, um other people he would be like they're it's alive trust me. It's like yeah
All right, evan
This is I guess our last criticism of toy story three from like an objective level I guess
um
So it's probably this is probably the most risky thing woody or any of the other toys do in regards to like
Moving around and having the potential to be seen so andy his mom and uh molly are
All like um like playing with buster essentially they're like saying goodbye to him
Woody jumps off of the the shelf he runs over with a note
He writes on the sticky note and he puts it on the box. He does that all
like playing in sight and it's just
It's a big risk. He does it quickly and there is a distraction
But it's something that's like that's a stretch for him to do considering how careful he's been throughout all the other films. So
Yeah
So then
That's about it though and and
That I swear we had so much trouble watching that last scene from toy story three because we knew
It's this this is all going to be ruined
Bonnie is like well the thing I I remember being very happy with that scene
Uh when I first saw the film because I was still a bit uh cynical about the film
Just like toy story three. Why is there a third? But I remember that last scene everything. You know what?
Kind of makes it old. It's not so bad with it. Yeah, like
It's a really nice little the toys carry on they make other kids happy
I'd like to just read out
Before we come to our rating for toy story three, which might piss off people in the chat
That are just saying no toy story three is bad and not really backing it up
so and he is handing his toys over to bonnie and
He doesn't know that woody is uh is inside the box
He looks into the box after he thinks that he's taken all of his toys out and he's
uh
uh, like kind of reluctant to hand him over and
About how special woody was to him and it's this really beautiful moment
because uh, this is like after years of not playing with woody and
Just saying
Like talking about woody it essentially to woody's face, you know looking woody in the eye
and talking about how much
and
What he says about woody is he's brave like a cowboy should be and kind and smart
But the thing that makes woody special
Never give up on you ever
He'll be there for you no matter what
Well, that's a flow that he needs expunged
Yeah, and he was wrong. Thanks toy story four
Um, well, I just want to quickly say thanks to the mods who are desperately trying to shoot down all of the fucking
I don't even know
What this trend is with these bot accounts, but jesus because there's no general filter
I can make that'll stop them because they they change their names constantly with all kinds of different things
Also, discord just died on me apparently
Um
Hello
Disco just updated like it just went nah, I'm okay
That's an effect first
Okay, well the I guess uh evan and I
At uh, we gave oh by the way aspiring writer said that when we talk about quality, we're not being objective. Stop saying it is
um
I mean, it wouldn't even matter. There's like
At this point we're inconsistencies. That's it. You with them what you want to do people in chat. That's up to you
and uh
Oh the objective rating, uh, of course that's referring to how I like would score the writing quality
um
Evan and I both gave it a nine out of
them because in spite of like the the issues that we listed there's also a lot of strengths that
We had like we didn't write down a fair amount of stuff about the movie that we thought was really good
And uh, yeah
If we're rating movies objectively
Does it get a plus?
Because it has positive things or is every movie a 10?
For objectivity and then you just take away from the flaws
There's like you have to yeah, you have to sort of like balance out like how bad is the is the really bad stuff
How bad is the bad stuff? How good?
You know because let's let's because the default state of just a movie, right?
Like I guess if we like just movie as a concept
Perfectly objective. It doesn't matter if it's entertaining if it's just
a photo or sorry a
10-minute video of a room
Right. That is an objectively perfect movie. There are no flaws in it, right?
Subjectively, it's shit, but objectively it's perfect. So does that mean every movie?
That progression of events and stuff that stuff
Is perfect quote unquote
But I suppose you could only determine the continuity as you're going right so like
Each of them start with almost nothing and then as soon as you see a scene it would it would jump to 10
Because everything's making sense. Everything's fine
And then as it progresses because the 10 is perfect, right?
So if it has a flaw, it doesn't matter how good the rest of it is
The flaw means it's no longer a 10. It's no longer perfect
Oh and yeah, james. I wasn't being sarcastic about the modding thing
I'm very thankful that you're able and uh and theo I think to knock them out
Yeah, like they're actually really really bad. Yeah, the the bots are really terrible
Thank you for trying to keep chat clean because that's uh, it's very i'm sure they appreciate it as well
I think that james more should uh, he should name he's
Connor because he's uh leading the war against these bots here
More like chad more. Am I right?
Chad more. Yeah
I just I I guess the point is
A movie going out of its way to do something really good
Can't bump it up
It's just the lack of flaws
Won't bring it down
Pretty much. This is
This is something I think was interesting because I I think that toy story two has better character material than toy story three
And this is something like I mentioned this the idea that like the toys kind of think uniformly
They don't they don't have a lot of character-based reasons for why they decide to stay at sunny side other than
They thought that and he was throwing them away. It's like that's not very strong
Character-based material. There's a lot better material instead of toy story two
But I would say that that film has more plot based flaws. So it's like it's a balancing act
It's I'm sorry. Yeah rags what you're saying here
So when you have something like toy story one where there's this inconsistency
with uh how buzz
Actually thinks he's a toy. Um
Like we still give that movie like a seven out of ten in spite of that issue as well as the others that we mentioned
Uh, the writing around those things is overall strong as opposed to something like the last jedi where uh, there are
a couple of
core
That are then like there's a there's this pile up of smaller inconsistencies on top of all of that. Um
It seems like like what would you rate toy story one then under this uh,
I I haven't I haven't seen it in a long long time. So I couldn't say
um, but I think that if we're going by
What an objectively perfect movie is and I think that absolutely I think that anybody could go out and make an objectively perfect movie
um in the sense that it could just be
A 10 second or 10 minute. However long you want it to be of just an inanimate object
sitting on a
Anything. It's just just anything like that, right?
Yeah, there's no inconsistencies. There's no problems. There's no plot holes. There's nothing it's perfect
Objectively, however subjectively it's fucking trash
So but also um, like there are plot holes and in contrivances that
No, I think that's worth kind of like trying to measure
What now there are plot holes and contrivances that are actually like they're worse than others. There's like something
like
Sure
I agree, but they would only they it's just a matter of how it lowers it from a 10 like I say
Like a 10 is the default
right
Okay
And then all the flaws go yeah, they drag it down and drag it down and drag it down
And not all flaws are the same of course
And I don't even know if I necessarily agree with it like it's just
I I am I am very loosely sitting on this
but
I
I guess
I guess that's sort of the nature of flaws in themselves like um
Because before we start watching a movie, it's almost like we're dealing with this is gonna sound really faggy
But it's almost like before we start watching a film, right? We're dealing with a concept of the film of a film
Um
In like that perfect
Measurement in our mind of some kind and then what we actually see is what drags down
You know when you take the concept of a perfect film
Then you take what you watch and it takes away from them. I don't I don't know. It's just
A lot of this is just me thinking out loud
But if we go with the idea that the good parts of a film can bump it up
then
A film with a flaw could still end up as a 10 out of 10
Well, depending how good on how good they are though
Well any any flaw means it can't be a 10 out of 10
but
Out of 10
Huh?
We didn't give a 10 out of 10 objectively. I know I know
Yeah
I'm not talking i'm talking about just movies is
Yeah, talking concept. Sure
Right not about this specific movie
Hmm
Because I I I kind of like this idea that
A film can't get better based on its content necessarily
It's like all the bad things just drag it down from up potentially perfect
Um, yeah, I I mean I would probably just be hyper specific with all of this. Um
Instead of film I would probably go with script
Uh, just just to make specifically talking about the writing
um
And where it can go
And then you know
We'd have probably get into a little bit of what what it would mean to constitute as a story as well for writing because does
Does a does a video of 10 minutes of a chair in a room constitute a story? I don't know
I would say yes
There's a film called empire which I believe was directed by andy warhol. It was like released in the 60s
It is just a um a shot that's continuous and it's just the empire state building
There's nothing else. Just a passage. So it's like is that a film?
Is that technically a story like does a story any progression? There's like there's a lot of interesting questions
Well any film any film has progression
well, it's also like
actors like
music editing direction sound design like those are those are things that I believe there is a craftsmanship too
I don't think that's just like a
You know, there's just like it all depends on how they make you feel like no, I think that there is
Uh, there's a way that you can prove that there's like a film that's back
Taken to taken three quantum of solace. Those are like my go-to terribly edited movies
um, and then you look at something more like uh
the mission impossible movies or
um
Like even probably about I don't know the first three born movies
uh kingsmen 1917
Which are incredibly shot and edited
Compared to something like and taken so I think like editing and in those other technical things. It's not just writing that needs to be fact
and that should factor into the
Objective scoring too. It's not just the script
I don't
I don't know. I think that
We could only I think that in this case we can only point out flaws in
not say for instance, there's no there's no objective reason why a
movie like a a long scene a scene that's a really
A long single shot is better than one that has a lot of uh, that has more jump cuts, right?
So I think yeah unless these jump cuts were
Yeah, there could be a there could be an instance where it is, but just you know all things being equal
Otherwise, then one is not objectively better than the other
Okay, I think
Here and as much as I hate to say let's agree to disagree and move on
We do have a couple videos to get to and people really want us to get the toy story for now
Well, I mean, yeah, this is this will be interesting discussion to have
I'm pretty sure like some of the first things we ever said about any of this subject is it'll be talked about well after i'm
And rag well all four of us are dead dust in
in becoming a part of the earth that spawned us right then that started all that shit because um
Yeah, there's already different comments
Like they have no idea what they're talking about. They're using the words wrong. You have to ignore this part
I was just I was just scanning through just like
People get very upset but I don't really care
As far as i'm concerned very clear about the terms of what they mean
So well like at this point I practically think it's semantics and categorization
And if you can't look past it and understand exactly what's being said
Instead of getting hung up on a particular word that you use a different definition for it should be like, all right
Yeah
I I use objectively like synonymously with i'm I'm critically thinking here, right?
Because you can just enjoy a movie and and try to
You know
You or or everything, you know, you can do the turn your brain off argument
um
But then what i'm trying to do here is i'm thinking critically
But like the craftsmanship involved here and that's what I mean when i'm giving it an objective rating is like
looking more into the flaws and
unnerving these things
But like this doesn't like even the the nitpicks and everything like I wouldn't uh not
too much for
for those kinds of of
Minor I guess shortcomings when it comes to attention to detail and then there's other things
Much bigger issues i'd say so as for um the two videos we've got what what do you reckon should we do?
Why toy story four works like watch it and then as we're approaching it criticizing
Toy story four and then probably go for everything we have for it and then do the next one just so that we sort of have a
bit of a
You know instead of doing all of toy story four and then the two videos we could do a video toy story four then video
Yeah, we could probably yeah, let's let's watch the one where he's saying
Works, um, and then that'll kind of like kickstart a discussion about toy story four. This is the good stuff chat. We're going to be
Bashing toy story four net. Yeah, this is honestly
It didn't take a small degree here
Yeah relatively free fap we're all right on schedule two hour two hour
All right, let's let me get this this invite ready
So yeah, I guess context there are there are youtubers who?
Are fans of toy story four which is fine and they they'd like to express to the world
That uh, it is a film of quality and that there will be arguments that can be made now you folks in chat
You may feel one way or the other as do we and um, I suppose
Now is the time for us to finally talk about it because um, we've thrown a lot of shade at toy story four without
Necessarily justifying it. Um throughout the efaps tenure
so, you know, everything ends up on the chopping block eventually and I guess it's time for us to uh,
Explore this one because there's gonna be there's gonna be a couple people in chat who really like it
I imagine see see what they
Think of these arguments, uh, who are we missing?
From uh, the u rags heaven. Uh, i'm here. Oh, I always expect to see your icon there
But I guess do you not do that anymore?
It's not loading. I clicked it and it like halfway loaded. Let me try again
It just decided it wasn't gonna load all the way
Uh, and don't don't give away who the youtuber is
I want these people to oh, all right. I think I think he's been covered before
Is this yes coming under three no, let me go i was just gonna say
Where is ever not back yet? That's probably what this who's missing
I assume not mr. Monroe. Oh, I didn't even yeah, I probably should have said by the way. Um
Our two guests. I just see we have guests
Treat it so casually that we just we just we have guests in our guests are southpaw
And evan monroe, uh southpaw has been here before everyone everyone knows him the cat guy
That's how everyone knows you isn't it? The guy with the cat. Yeah
Yeah, it's a it's not chris stuckman clone. It's I it's my
new cat avatar
and
uh evan monroe is the guy who's I showed his video on efap number something something because i've completely forgotten which which one it was but uh
Yeah, we finally got to have him on to talk about some toy store. I really should have done this two and a half hours ago
That would have been suitable but hey, it's fine because we gotta we gotta fill a little bit of time while he's um
While he's coming back. Anyway, so yeah
Yeah
I'll be right back myself. I guess while it's break i'll get that in fine. I mean southpaw should have to talk about something
How about that? Um that new thing? How about that?
Yeah, that new thing was uh
I gotta say I didn't like it myself, but it was pretty good
No, I mean there's just so many string scenes in it. That's a problem
How is ren? Have you spoken to him?
Yeah, ren's
Okay, I have to make this I guess I should probably say this publicly on efap. Um ren and I are
um ren's reviews the guy that I
Uh spoke to my first efap appearance about his mission impossible review
and um
Actually appeared on my podcast a couple times and the first time was on my first podcast
Where we covered the very like one of the videos that we're covering today
and
I admit that toy story four sucks. He's
Uh, he and I had a fun time talking about how awful cats and the rise of skywalker both were
I still haven't seen cats i'm excited to
Cats was the first movie that I saw this decade
Um
I waited until after the new
And I realized oh
Seeing this before I see uncut gems. This is how I start off the decade
This is a this is great. It's how I get to
In 2020s
Um meme for yms his channel for a while where he was like
Because that was the first film you reviewed for 2020. He was like cats is the best film of 2020 so far
That's just the um, I mean
If I if I had seen it before new year's eve I agreed it's like yeah, I would have put the
Which is why I didn't want to see it before new year's eve is like there's no way i'm risking
I'm not risking toy story for getting knocked off the
List here. There's like a
very special
Vicious hatred that I have for this movie. Um
the dark night rise
I criticized a lot my last well second to last appearance on here
And that was like one of the most disappointing movies i've ever seen and it was like my
Last jedi before I saw the last jedi
um
But in in the last jedi was was a very profoundly unpleasant theater
But with the dark night rises I actually spent a fair amount of time
Denying that it was bad. I was like trying to convince myself that it was actually like a really good movie
I felt like I was in a very unpopular position for not thinking that film was any good
My friend group were not happy with me, but I was like, I don't know man
Got tisms
Around within a few days about it
Um, it was just that you know, I loved the dark night so much
I loved batman begins so much and I wanted dark night rises to just be good
and I didn't and um, the hatred for it kind of grew over the years and
Uh people left comments
We fat 50 saying that I was being deliberately obtuse with the movie
saying things like
southpaw the
uh, the plane crash wasn't
Little crash. It was just supposed to fake dr. Pavel's death and i'm thinking like
So they chose to fake dr. Pavel's death in the most suspicious way possible
Like okay
Okay, buddy
Saying that we were like being um disingenuous about the cops in that movie. It's like
It's about moving three thousand cops into a sewers at once. Okay
All right. Sure. Like I didn't realize that I want you to imagine that happening in your city
Oh, you can't I know
I don't know. I
I feel like if you were gonna fake someone's death
A plane crash wouldn't be a terrible way to do that
The group are in a specific and strange way though
Oh my god
Because I haven't seen it. So
Okay
Get fucked you're gonna go statistical
Yeah, I thought the fun one was um
We are now at the point where efap is touching at questions people far more intelligent and cultured have researched a lot more
And the answers prove them wrong
Like well, you can go watch their fucking streams. Oh, I mean, well, I'm just I was just like I didn't realize we've covered anything
But we haven't always covered pretty much. Yeah, I don't we haven't branched out that much. I mean
I would never want people to assume that like
Oh, yeah, hello
For you
I like to think we're a fairly smart bunch. Wow fucking egotistical just like
Like the chat said we ain't no I mean y'all are
Fucking dumb dumbs. That's where you direct not at us or chat or both
I have just everyone wow
Everyone's just a dumb
ice cream cone head
Uh, but yeah, I I would I would expect that there's people who've done way more research on on
The things that we talk about but uh, that doesn't really stop us from being like, hey, you know toy story
You know how they're like alive. Yeah
Like, you know the implications that has it's like we're we're talking about that anyway
Um, so yeah, I guess are we good to
Uh jump in. Oh, yeah, evan. Have you have you joined the watch together?
Okay, i'm in the watch together dumb point rag says uncle jamie. Yeah, i'm not actually saying go and watch volter's streams
You got me what i'm about i've always taken everything you say literally rags
Yeah, it's just hey just take everything. I say literally. Oh great. So fucking watch together. It's changed on me again. Thank you
Oh, um, it just makes us looking competent for a moment. You have to talk while I fix it
All right. Well, um, so I don't know about you guys
but uh
He's being an ironical
Irranical hey, by the way mauler forgot to introduce you earlier and now that you're here. We can do that. Oh, hi
Yeah, hey everyone. It's me rags
Uh frequent guest
I was I was telling them evan how we showed your video once upon a time here
Thank you really good video and how I should have mentioned this
Because it's still black with a loading wheel
Oh for me the watch together. Uh
It's on the first second for us. Um, I can't even see
People's names. Let me I guess i'll reload and see if it loads up this time
Good for me. I was trying to do something with fringing
The other day and he couldn't get washed together to work, which was kind of lame
Yeah, it's not quite I mean I
I guess let me do a test to see if the controls will work for me. You say might shock you say might
Should keep your tools in a bit say take yours in a bit christ. Okay. Oh my goodness. He's talking double
This guy looks like a toy story character
So wait, it is working for you
Yes, I can play it. So that should that's really all I need I could play in it. I
And I guess I could pause it so
Let's roll this back to zero. Wow. He looks like he kind of looks like a discount version of jim
from treasure planet
Yeah, that's not so bad
I was I was thinking uh, I was thinking more like like ruby rose but retarded
Wow. Oh my I kind of see it. That's listen. That's not first off
In before they're just making fun of I'm not making fun of his appearance
I'm just saying I'm just kind of like that's what he gets the hair mostly. It's the hair and the eyebrows. I do it
He's got the uh, the last jedi poster behind him
Oh dear, oh fuck off. No, how do we know that's is that a is it is it is wait is what what?
Oh, that's the last jedi poster. Yeah
This man has bud buzz lightyear on his bed
Good and he and there's a speech for the next joke. It's a buzz that says I like toy story
You know
I I think that's a fair inference that buzz would like toy story
Listen think about the mad pussy. This guy's slaying. Well buzz lightyear is watching him blast off of this be a lie. Mm-hmm
And when I come to my room, I got my can you imagine the poster my buzz lightyear action
Can you imagine the the moans that like like how the moans that he makes when?
bound
He's like, let me use protection and he makes his visor go down
Oh
Look I need to know why toy story four works you guys are ruining it. Okay. Here we go. It's gonna be great
What am I about to say?
Echoing a bit from the mic there mr. Yeah, heaven
You might work going now
Well, it's not playing
Uh
Let's test it
Oh, I see it yep, it's an echo
Uh, what is that all about?
What if you use twist to talk
Yeah, just have like a hotkey designated for you know activating your um in any key really hold it down
It could be an unattractive key. It doesn't have to be home. That's true. That is it could be an unattractive key
I think x is the hottest key because it
Like a butthole
All right, kind of I could see that
That's a little pucker there
echo monroe
We are we testing again?
Hello, I don't know let's test it
They might just be about to it's not equal
I don't know. Why did he stand under his mouth if it's gonna drop?
I don't know. These are these are unfortunate pauses
It is
Oh, this is a horrifying frame to be stuck on
Yeah, don't worry chat. We'll we'll move it eventually. We're just you know, we're trying to help out having first
We'll get there also. Wow those those bots in chat. They're really
They're aggressive
And there's so many
I feel really bad
I think it's theo and james the ones who are trying it's like again. Thank you guys because that's uh, that's some annoying shit right there
Okay
Those bots try to outsmart us with the copying and pasting of other messages
How did the butt wars out?
Um
Evan are you speaking right now? We cannot hear you
Yeah, evan if you're talking we there's there's nothing
That frame looks like a blow-up doll
Oh, I get it. I get it shamus sent the sex box at the sex box after us because we're going to be criticizing toys
I knew shamus now. That's it all makes sense. You're shamus
This guy his name is shamus gorman is his name. He looks like a shamus
Yeah
And listen, if that was my room, I would be a shamus
Someone just went crazy with discord. Hey, did discord just randomly update on you evan because that yeah, I know that feel
I guess not. I think seo went to bed. Oh, dear
Oh my goodness
Evan, yeah, are you there? Evan we have to watch this is a film's video
Come on
No, evan you can do it
I don't think evan can do it
You gotta check all your inputs probably and then double check them and then triple check them
Start without me if you want
Well, he's typed out not me. You're not allowed to start without me
Evan is
I guess we can we can we can just give a look see to this opening. We'll uh, hopefully evan can get that
You've heard of evan essence, but have you heard of evan essence what yes, okay
We did it yay
Folks, okay
All right, uh, so let's see if it echoes
Okay, i'm just gonna mute when it does that because I don't know what's going on
Well when I didn't use push to talk it wouldn't let me go
I that that was when I couldn't talk to you guys
At that point then when you want to talk, I guess you're gonna have to manually mute whenever we play
Yeah, i'll just do that. That's not very fun, but i'll appreciate wait, don't you have like a headset?
Yeah, I do. I don't know why it echoes. This has happened before hold on just um
I don't know. Do you remember when this happened last time right so far?
Yes, yeah, it actually actually happened as we were trying to watch the toy story movies
And it's not it's not coming from my headset because I tried testing going out and then it it worked fine
So sound is is your sound coming out of like speakers?
No, I have a headset. So so your microphone is picking up your headsets audio
Um, I don't think so. I think I think that we tested that last time
Literally has to be the case if we're hearing well
It could be some kind of crossed
Wiry like the way to test that would just be turn your volume to zero and then i'll play and we'll see if it echoes
Um, sure turning mic volume down not mic volume. Uh, literally watch together mute watch together
I'm curious if I press play if it'll echo because that'll that'll let us know it's more internal than external
Volume is all the way down. Make sure to keep your jaws in a fixated shot position
Yeah, it might it seems to actually be your microphone is picking it up from your actual headset. That's pretty crazy
All right, I turn it down way down. Try it now because they might just be about to drop. I love toy story
Boy, it has an amazing story
God shows up
What is the receiving level of your microphone? I was gonna say that microphone man. Jeez
Is it like 300?
That can't be it. It's just an 18 2020. That's um, that's well
It depends it. That's it. It's not a it's not a microphone. It's a it's a setting in windows
Let me okay test this out. I'm i'm gonna go i'm gonna go as far away from the mic as I can
Really as you can really?
That's all
We just hear it like guys
I guess we'll test it. Yeah rebutiful animation
It just provides us with the most perfect ending
Yeah
Go to what is the risk? What is the microphone level?
What level is your mic? The headset could not possibly be that good. Let me um, hang on
No, no, no the microphone. What level is your microphone set at?
Not sure dude. It's I I just got an interview then we'll find out together. We'll go on an adventure
You can keep this information with you for the rest of your day. Okay
So sorry go to your go to your sound settings
a discord or
On your windows machine on windows
I want on your desktop in the taskbar that you're using windows, right?
Yes, I have windows. Okay. Okay, just make sure you could be on a mac
You could be a fucking version
So I want you to right click on the bottom right on the little volume thing
Where it says sounds click on that
Okay
All right
Yeah
Okay, uh, you should see something that look
You should see something that looks approximately like this
Let me get there
Oh, um, hold on a minute
I mean the manual solution still stands. You just have to keep muting his mic
He's about to say that's probably the quicker. You'll have to then you'll have to do this for everything for the rest of your life
No, it's just your wife your future children. Your grandchildren will have to deal with this problem
He can you don't want that he's able to fix it
Five seconds just do the thing I said to do
You're on the thing
I will tell you how to get there. So at the bottom right of your
Of your taskbar you see the little the see the little thing the little uh, like the volume thing here
I'll show you what it looks like I can like I know
Okay
Right click sound excellent. Go see
Recording tab double click on the 80 2020 microphone there then go to the levels tab
Um, hold on there should be different
It's looking different dude. I'm on like windows 10 or hang on. I'm on windows 10 as well
Managed sound settings god microphone. Hang on. It looks like
Oh, it does not look like that it's it's different it's like it's going to the regular settings
Sorry guys, I don't I don't know all that much about computers man, I just do another basics hang on this is
So I need you to locate system 32
Do
You're talking in a different language this is so when you when you right click when you go to the sound thing
What it what do you get when you do you not get you not see what I posted
Setting open sound setting open volume mixer. Um spatial sound uh, it says off and then troubleshoot sound problems
Is that what you're getting?
Are you talking about when you right click on the little volume thing down here? Is that what you're talking about right here?
Yes
So there's not a sound option there
There's uh, there's open sound settings. It looks different from yours open volume mixer and open sound settings. Yeah open sound settings is there
So there's not a sounds
No, there's not just sounds all right, um, let's
Let's right click on
Let's see go to settings and let me see. I thought this is the way i've always done it. So if I go to devices
And I click on
8020 20 usb plus it's just the only option it gives me is remove device. That's a fucking
Jesus windows, maybe I want to do things other than just remove it. I'm staring at a barrel. I'm just giving you
All right. All right, we're okay. We're fine. We're good related settings sound settings
There we go. That could possibly be it
um
so on the
So, uh, well on settings you go to devices
right
Bluetooth and other devices, uh, no, we're not we're gonna do this together
Okay, i'm at devices. Yeah, are you on devices? All right. No on the right. It says sound setting
Just click it
Okay, let's click that. All right. I'm learning this as I go
so
from here
Choose input device device properties. Boom. There it is found it device properties. It has the volume thing on it
device
I'm not seeing that on sound fuck. All right, let's go back. Let's do this. Okay. Here's here's what i've got
Here's what we've got here. I'm gonna
In the ass
So i'm gonna screenshot this. All right. Do you is this what you see?
Just like, um
minimize this
You clicked on sound settings. Yeah, this is where we are. Yeah. Okay. That's this is what you see then
That is what I see
Now for input choose your input device it'll have 80 2020 there or whatever you call it
It says microphone 2 usb audio codec. Yes that could probably that's that very well might be it
Are there is do you even have another option?
There's another option. It says microphone
Real rel tech audio. It's probably just a computer. Yeah, it's probably audio codec
All right, so
Go to device properties. That's right underneath that
Got it
Okay
You should see
Dare I say it something that looks like this
Yeah
Um
Yes, yes. Okay good. Okay. All right. All right now
That volume slider that's the sensitivity of your microphone
100 being so what's it at?
It's at 78. So probably high that lower that so mine's at 51 just as a frame of reference
Go to 51
All right. So yeah lower it a bit. Keep this open. Dear god. Keep this open. So we have to find it again
and give that a shot, right
and
We'll see if that fixes the issue. See this is way easier than what pauler suggested
I
Okay, I lowered it to 51 test it now no microphone is this good
No, it don't you sound great. You sound great. No, you sound great
Wait, it's just I I don't believe that it could possibly be picking up the audio of
so
The higher the volume is set up the more sensitive the microphone is like if my microphone is at 100 it is insanely sensitive
Towards to the point where he's like that's why mine's only 51. It's like half of what it could be
Okay
Oh, that meme is so perfect. Okay, I love it. I was just testing
Can you just share his screen to rags? No
He can't he can't fuck up the whole call if he she screams
No, just test it. Okay
Okay, so let's give this a shot
Yeah, and if it's too loud and you can just keep lower in the bar until we don't have an issue anymore
This will solve our problems forever. We won't have to make fun of you ever again
Into what a story that we never knew we needed but it was just the most all right
I mean it's less impactful
Yeah, yeah, exactly. There you go. Yeah, so lower it by you know, the 40 lowered a bit more. Yeah
Yeah, it's a 35
Try now
Okay different toy story film ever like i'm not saying that as a bad
It's whenever it's famous rises in his speech. That's when it'll show up
Well, if as long as he only talks when he has something to say
Well, that's just life advice
But as long as you only talk when he has something to say if we pause it there anyway, we should be good
Okay, we're gonna go back to zero. I'm gonna try and make it through this fuck now. It's southpaw doing it guys
Sorry, yeah, we can hear you
I'll just have you all know that as
Time as I was muted. I was listening. You can't even hear half of what southpaw said
I was fucking losing it while I was muted
You too you two are supposed to pay to have his guests. I'll say that much
I need you to call comcast on their phone on your phone
Hang on hang on
I'll get you their support number
You need to do all this before man. I swear we we had this exact same issue
I can't tell you because that would youtube it's gonna think that i'm doxxing infinity customer service. Can you guys hear me now?
Yes, yes
Okay, and you guys can hear me. Okay. Yeah
Sorry, so i'll just have
I'll just let everyone know that I uh
As uh as my mic was muted because I tuned into the stream and and heard the music choice
Which was a really great choice of music mauler. I wonder wonder
Yeah, it's got that idea. It's just I literally typed in random letters and uh, it just came up
It was perfect. It wasn't directed to me by anybody in particular
Thank you for calling. No, definitely not
All right, are we doing this we ready everyone
Boys we're ready. This is why you showed up. This is why we're here
We're we're doing it. It's your purpose
What i'm about to say might shock you so make sure to keep your jaws in a fixated shot position
Because they might just be about to drop. I love toy story for it has an amazing story. You're wrong. No, it doesn't
10 seconds
The story could amaze I think it was amazing too
It amazed me in all the wrong ways
Shall we shall we talk?
Well, I was going to say
Should we only counter any any like positive points?
He makes if we if we feel the need to and then once this video is over we'll go through anything we've missed
So so
Do you think it's interesting that he uses the frame where they're literally marveling at the pretty lights as he says
I love toy story for well, he said it's an amazing thing. They're being amazed by the by the pretty lights
You're being amazed by the pretty lights. Yeah
Though I think it's accidentally indicative of what
Is getting people to like toy story which is oh look at the things that I like his visuals do not help this point
Hey, man
He he might like gorilla or it does look good. You know, the film doesn't look amazing. That's the animation. It's amazing
The
The detail must be good the pixels. Okay, the pixels are amazing
Specifically the boxels
It it is a very beautiful film. It is a very beautifully animated
great
Objectively sexy. That's how you put that right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. That's a thing. That is a thing
Animation and it just provides us with the most perfect ending to woody's story
No
No
Pay attention woody's story. Okay, let's talk about it. All right. I'm sorry. No, we have to talk about this
We have to talk about this. Okay, remember all the stuff that we brought up about how woody has these uh
There's this whole movie where woody is insecure about not being played with
And he moves past that and toy story three reveals. Well, not reveals
He say to bonnie that woody will never give up on her. What is the natural?
Uh way that you end toy story for
Those two things those those two pretty important little details. Well, how would you guys end it?
Wouldn't it be like it should be a story about woody taking all the lessons
He's learned and imparting that wisdom onto another toy. He can be the yoda in this movie
Hmm
Okay
There's a lot of things you can do there's a lot of different directions you could theoretically take
Did you said there's a lot of erections you could theoretically take I mean
I don't know how they we haven't covered the sexual aspect really beyond saying that they apparently did have the sex in the first
I think confirmation was had with the with the sheep comment
Ah, yeah, hundred percent right there. That was bow chica. Wow. Wow territory. Absolutely
Yeah, well the way that I think that uh
Should have ended given those
established parts of woody's character is they should have just have him abandoned bonnie in
And then just stay behind with bow peep at this carnival and just be a lost toy and never get played with by a kid
they'll just help other toys get get kids but
Because that's totally a thing now and toy story for that just comes about nowhere is oh, it's woody has fulfilled his purpose
Like what what do you mean?
He hasn't a toy's purpose to be played with by a kid
Like woody has a new owner and don't give me this bullshit about how bonnie doesn't care about him anymore
because
We're given in the beginning of this movie is that woody hasn't been played with in like a week and then
um, let me oh god, let me see if I can find this uh
Picture here. Um, but someone sent this to me over twitter
and
It uh, it actually shows during the I can't let you
Montage bonnie is actually playing with woody. You guys remember that that little bit? Yeah, um
Which confuses the uh the issue doesn't it was like hmm
Especially when woody can apparently go many years without being played and be played with and be okay with it
And
When you have a character that's written really well
There's an aspect of can you sort of predict to a reasonable degree?
What they will do in the future based on what their character is with woody if they made a toy story five
knock on wood
Holy fuck. I have no idea what he will do. He could do anything
He could be competent incompetent a buffoon eluded everything he could his loyalties could be to anybody
You have no idea what is going to happen with woody now because he's so inconsistent because they've doubled back on
Yep
That's the problem with character assassinations. That's the problem with going back on character
You're basically saying oh the character development from the previous movie that didn't actually matter
That's the thing man, like the the quote the uh, the end of my story too the like the
I'll be with buzz lightyear to infinity and be uh, well until t4
ts4
It's like that's basically where it ends
He'll never leave this
Well, I mean, you know until about a year from now
Not only does woody leave buzz, but buzz leaves woody. Yeah twice
He's just like, okay, right
We'll try and get to these things eventually but holy shit when buzz leaves woody halfway through the movie or two thirds, I guess
Like fuck this guy that part that part. I don't know that that part annoys me
A lot, but probably not as much as the whole woody abandoning everybody part
That's that's that's probably the part that bothers me the most yeah
That's yeah
Yeah
He's going to leave behind all of his friends his surrogate family that he's known for I mean like god
I mean, it's okay. So
jump between two and in four, okay between two and three I guess or uh,
At least you know 10 years takes place between
toy stories
Right, and we know that he's known most of those toys much longer than like since before toy story one at least
You know at least some time has you know?
the
Off screen before the first movie so he's known these people for a long time
Bo peep
Uh is gone for at least nine years
leaves all of his friends that he's known for well over 10 years for someone who
Left and has like he hasn't seen in
And people try to say oh, you know, it's uh, it's um, it's his ex basically. It's like okay. Listen
woody
Supposedly had moved on
From from bow by like toy story three like it's brought up and he's like visibly sort of saddened by it
But he's actually rather resilient. Did you notice that evan when they met?
Bo it's not like he just suddenly like breaks down completely and he's no longer a character
Like you get this reaction from him, you know, but then he moves on from it
Yeah, he's in bow
but now he's going to
Abandon all of his friends abandon his owner who for all we know in a couple of days
It with him again because she just recently played with him. Where's woody? I can't find woody and she'll cry and
He'll say a message about it. He's like i'm a lost toy now. Fuck you
It's like okay. Can you imagine? I've lost i've decided to make myself lost totally armature really
Can you imagine like if andy were to visit bonnie?
Where's woody, you know
Oof, yeah, let's hope that he didn't care. Let's hope he's just that's fine
Because man, that'll be crushing
All we have to do is hope that small children never change their minds on a whim
That fucking clobbering agreement bulky
Yes, that's all all because he has a stupid fork in two weeks
He's gonna be like what was like fucking thing and forky shit. Yeah woody is a synth guys. That's a
We we did a watch party of toy story four four of us plus our my my other friend buzzax
We watch toy story four all together and the whole way through i'm like god
All's list simp in this movie it's insane. It's like the butchering of his character
Happens before the ending even had man. He just constantly subservient as a queen. Okay
Yeah, well, you know, at least he's not as much of a beta male as bonnie's dad
Damn he changed a tire. That's pretty manly may have taken him an entire day, but hey
But the system
There's no way with petals of the car being messed with
No, the car's driving itself
Oh
What did it was the thing? Okay
but yeah
To open with like it's a perfect end to woody's ox like oh
Oh
And that's why a single sentence can take many many minutes to explain
This is the thing we could probably go into more detail like like the many ways it destroys everything
But you know, we'll we'll we'll we'll kick on before we come back to it a bit
We will certainly get to all of that
Just the most
Different toy story film ever like i'm not saying that is a bad thing. I thoroughly enjoyed it
I was smiling the entire way through, you know until the very end when they took away everything that mattered to me
However, it did get me wondering how did they change wait what yeah, wait, hold on. Did he is he being?
Well, I mean he likes the ending right? So
Yeah, he just said that the ending is perfect
I guess he's being ironic and trying to mock the people that think this is
Yeah, I guess you I I can assume that's a joke at their expense. Um, I suppose
It's he because I I think the general consensus is that the movie is really good though, right?
Like well, yeah 97 percent of people who are wrong think that it's great
I
Seems like a weird thing to address. I mean how how would be a hundred percent of people who are wrong?
100 percent of people who are wrong. Yeah, 97 percent 100 percent of the 97 percent around
Yeah, no 97 percent of 100 percent are wrong
No, 100 percent of the 97 percent both
Oh, I thought you were talking about the 97 percent of the 100 percent of people that have seen toy story four in review
No, no 97 percent of 100 percent that's redundant percent means out of a hundred
Okay, but you're saying a hundred percent of the 97 percent. Yeah, that would be redundant
No, all that it's because I said originally something that was wrong and then I rephrased it to make sense
Wouldn't you just say the 97 percent wrong instead of 100 percent of the 97 percent are wrong?
Yeah
There you go. You both become redundant
No, I was I was being redundant to to fix to to be clear with the redundant eyes mix them up
Yeah, it was that was a narrative redundancy. It's a
It's a storytelling technique
The seven percent of the time they're wrong every time
How did they change their formula and still make a wonderful and overwhelming? It's popular guys. Oh, no
Change their formula so
What exactly how would you guys categorize the change in formula from one two and three to four? Oh
Wow, so let's see in every movie woody gets uh separated from the other toys
uh
See that's there's often a toy to rescue
Buzz lightyear regresses back reverts back to how he wasn't the first movie in every movie. Uh, that's not a formula
Well, I'd say like toy story two
That's kind of that's kind of what i'm trying to highlight I don't see how toy story four breaks a formula
I in my trouble plot goes all over the place. Yeah, I was gonna say other than like
Nonsensical it is sure but like I don't know it seems like it
How do I put this like like the
I'm a very simple review. It's like we start out with uh,
The the kid is spooked about going to kindergarten. You're like, okay
She makes a new toy for herself. This toy wants to fucking kill itself and woody has to prevent that from happening
I'm just like yeah strange, but like I don't know. It's just he's got a mission as a toy. It's related to his kid
But that seems to be like an often time. Like I understand it. It's just the
To save another toy and get back home
Yeah, like if that was the central plot where they're just
Forky from killing himself and they they convinced him that he's a toy, right? If that was the crux of the story
Then that could have worked
That's that's new. That's interesting sort of because it's like a toy that's made out of arts and crafts
Which by the way, by the way, there's no fucking way
All of these toys like woody and and all of his friends that this is the first time that they've seen something like this happen
There's no way there's out like I I refuse to
In molly and never made a toy or made that made toys
Made toys out of arts and crafts or scraps or anything. Wait, does that Wilson was actually alive and cast away?
The what
Oh, you're right
Yeah, potentially we never you just couldn't speak because this is the rule
He's like my mouth is blood or he's just like fuck it look it's just us
It's just you and me out here, this is all a delusion because of your nutrients
But here's what we need to do
Because it's a family guy joke as well, but I could totally see Wilson be like, okay, okay. Yes, i'm real
It's like whoa, I know you're real. Wilson. Yeah, he's like i've been saying that the whole time
He's like, no, no, no, but now I actually um, he's like yep. I know
Yeah
And then they they just it keeps the plot just keeps on trying to like reset essentially so it can
Bring in a new element. It just like it takes a long
Actually like really
Kicks off basically. Yeah, um, I mean it takes a while for them to get to pizza planet and then get like taken by sid
Toy story, but I feel like what they're doing in setting up the dynamic between woody and buzz before they do that
Uh, that's important
Time being used, you know, like the formula doesn't seem to be that broken. That's all
Yeah, it's the it's the details that's that's what's fucked not like any particular general
Like, you know
If the if the story was all of the toys
Go to france and meet french toys and just hang out and at the end of the movie
They take a french toy back with them home. I'd be like that was a weird weird toy story, but okay
I would love to see america. It's just toy story colon
We go what's isn't there a rugrats? Is it go to paris? What's the rugrats one?
It's the wild thornberries crossover, right?
There's there's uh, there's um american tail fival goes west. Isn't it just rugrats go to paris?
Rugrats paris
Rugrats get asked rugrats in paris the movie. There you go
How about rug rags?
rags
I enjoy I enjoy sprawling out on the rug in the
Light of the sun as it streams through the window seeing the midday
Why didn't rugrats have like fundamental existential questions like toy story did see I just I don't see why not
Well, maybe they do
Maybe there are some episodes where they do touch on some of these things
But from tommy, why am I alive?
It's like oh from a baby's perspective, you know
So the babies can just dismiss it because they're fucking stupid because babies are retarded
But the audience can be like, oh wow, who knows?
Anyway carry on shimmus
Killer film why does toy story four work a youtube video is spoilers
Is that intro in all those videos
I guess no
It's not in the second one that we're going to be covering
Hmm spoilers are they both famous videos?
I believe so. Yes. Oh my god
double helping a double bill
Yeah, get used to this voice reason behind the success of the film is because they didn't change the most important thing
No, he fucking shrinks as a character. He regresses
He turns inside out as a character
There's a there's a lot of words. I say rugrats do address existential
things apparently
Uh, jave will keep saying tommy literally almost kills his brother. It's like I remember that I think
I think yeah, yeah, this he goes from being three-dimensional and having the this insecure
um sort of shifts across the series and he grows out of it and his motivations, uh change rather dynamically according to
how he interacts with characters and in toy story four he it's just like
It was like watching him. Um
You know that that car
Like flanderization were a character's
Uh, like one of their core traits becomes their only trait that's toy story four with what?
They do maybe like he's basically just this two-dimensional shell of his former self
woody noisy
Yeah woody and and
um for that matter, but
Yeah, it's like he's not growing as a character in this movie at all. Um, the like this movie does this weird thing
people to now think oh
yeah toys are these sentient beings that should have their own wants and desires to go out and be adventurous and
Want to be played with by kids, you know, they want to have their own lives
And that's framed as like oh, that's a good thing
You know, but then they also have the
Body and it's like you're i'm getting these really these really weird mixed messages from toy story four
With when stuff like that is is occurring. It's almost like toys are another species coexisting with people on the planet
That can operate completely independently. They are aware of us, but we are not aware of them
yeah, um
it's very strange in toy story four what they're like if
If toys behave this way in toy story four, there's no way that the masquerade isn't blown
in any words, but
I
I don't know. We i've always found the i've always found the characters and rugrats to be really two-dimensional
Wait, what always found the characters to oh i've always found the characters in toy story to be three-dimensional
I think I know I think you know you're getting that there ranks
I think I caught I caught what you're getting that there. I picked up what you're putting down
I wrote on it myself. I'm glad you're buying what i'm i'm glad that you're buying what i'm selling
I'm putting it i'm framing it and i'm putting it on a wall because I got it
I'm glad you're catching when i'm tossing
Thank you
I'm glad you're chewing what i'm spitting. Let me pull it. Let me pull him back
Second the most important reason behind the success of the film is because they didn't change the most important fit
The story was all about woody his relationship with his owner and him growing as a character
I mean you wouldn't necessarily
Have to have a toy story film. That's
Solely about woody growing as a person
It could easily be as we were talking about before woody could be the one that's not
The protagonist it's possible
You could have him
You have the whole b plot in toy story have it set in a completely different part of the country
You could set it a different country no matter
You know because it could still be interesting story, right?
It doesn't have to be about buzz and woody
In fact, maybe toy story forward been something i'd enjoy a hell of a lot more if it wasn't about
You know because their story's done
Mm-hmm
Tell a different story. Let's say
Remove all the original characters like like the as in the the old characters remove the old cast from the story
Oh toy story four already did that
Yeah, well
I mean come like they don't even show up. Okay, they're irrelevant entirely
Okay, so toy story four doesn't even have bow peep
Still got maybe gabby gabby. We've still got ducky and bunny. There's still
Uh duke kaboom and maybe a couple other characters, you know that they could make
And in fact, maybe not even call it toy story four or I don't know call it like fucking
Uh duke kaboom
Well, this is simple think of all the toys in the world statistically most of them aren't woody
Yes, yeah
So tell what the story's about one of them
It's like it's like this is it's like off screen between toy story three and four
the woody that we know
With a different woody that didn't have the same character development in the previous three movies
but also
Happened to love a bow peep figure I guess
Yes, I like that's the only way I could how woody acts in this movie that this is not the same woody
Like this is literally a different copy of a wood
I'm seeing here. Well growing implies the virus toy story. That could work. Yeah story four. Well, you guys know about tangerine rabbit
Yes
right
mm-hmm
Good i'm glad I don't have to explain that well
What are we explaining it for people who do not know about it?
oh, um
They had to um
I think it's the tangerine right? Yeah. Yeah, right. No, I think it's tangerine rabbit
um
Someone correct me if i'm wrong the tangerine bunny
point is
Tangerine rabbit was all the all the toys were like alive, you know and a tangerine rabbit
Was the velveteen rabbit the thank you chat the velveteen
I got fruit on the brain right now
So thank you chat, uh the velveteen rabbit it's kind of like toy story that the the
Toys are all aware of each other
But the kid gets sick
Right kid gets sick and then in order to recover and stay recovered all the kids toys have to be
Fucking burned because they could have a sickness the bad sickness on them
Which is toys get fucking burned
Hmm, it's dark. Yeah, it is fucking dark. It's like water shipped down
but toys
What is shipped down but with toys if that makes it worse like me?
Oh dear
I mean it's
Don't want to get into a talk about velveteen rabbit. It's been a while since i've seen the tangerine velveteen
I thought he was tangerine tangerine velveteen tangerine, but you could see why cancer is a fruit
Yeah, velveteen is a fruit in some cultures
Velveteen well tangent. Yeah, but they sound close tangerine velveteen tangerine velveteen
You can find them in a rap song
You can put them in a rap song
It's velveteen. I like to get my uh
juices from tangerines
Nigga, oh my god
That's they it's almost just saying we'll get demonetized talking about coronavirus and I was like, uh,
Oh
I feel like
That's gonna be the least of youtube's issue. The rabbit was not a fruit. I'm aware the rabbit was not well, actually
Yeah, the rabbit was not a fruit. Okay
Carry on
Well, it was a lot less focused on toys getting played with and exploring new concepts and situations toys have to go through
They still managed to round off
No, you have the lost toys. That's a completely new concept
Far as I'm aware, right? That's a whole new thing. Wait, sorry. This wasn't what was his point
Did he say that there are no new things?
Um, he says it doesn't he's as he was saying there weren't there weren't new cars
We know like go really let's double check that. Yeah, let's go to
Let's go I rolled character
Well, there's a lot less focus on toys getting played with and exploring new concepts and situations toys have to go through
They still managed to round off
Yeah, that is strange that he'd say that because I would consider it. Why would you say that?
Yeah, the carnival toy thing. That's like as far as I know that's a whole new situation
Certainly the lost toys concepts. Like that's the lost toys concept
Yeah, the concept of other toys like
Performing back alley abortions and other toys for their parts. Oh god
That's new yeah, the surgery that the the dolls give on
Okay, it's a little move toys being what he wakes up at an ice bath like oh god
A cat eats a toy. I don't I don't know if a toy has ever been eaten before. Yeah, it's quite grim. Have I
Yeah, like when I first saw that I was like, holy shit. They're going there
Well, I know that will get out that toy. That is an efap movies that is fully edited as well. That'll be out one day
Oh my god
You'll see our first reactions because rags and I had not seen toy story before before that. I don't think fringy had either, right?
I don't think so either. Yeah, like we all just we did not
Know what we were in for
Well, I mean at that point I'd heard criticisms, but yeah
Yeah, you sort of you sort of did know because
You were recording it because you heard I hated it. Well, that's what I mean
I'd heard bad and good thing, but I had no idea what was gonna be in it
Oh, I gotcha
I'd heard stuff about woody, but like that doesn't really give you anything right because it's like of course woody's gonna be in it
Oh, I mean I had the the ending of like woody in this movie spoiled for me because there was like a storybook of the movie
audiobook of and then uploaded they uploaded it to youtube and
Someone sent me the link from your discord mauler. And so I'd like skip to the very end
Well, then you spoiled it for yourself
Well, okay, but here's the thing. No, here's the thing though. I don't I don't think the point of the story is no
It was that one specific detail that was spoiled nothing else was spoiled for me though
I didn't see the rest of what was going to happen with the bullshit
Buzz being a moron. How did that
Specifically get spoiled but nothing else
Because I skipped to the end of the video. Why did you do that?
It was a why did you do that?
Because someone told me about what what was going to happen with woody and they were said they were saying no look at this
Before you even just told the entire thing
Well at that point is that even a spoiler if someone spoiled it for you already
Yeah, i'm just saying that I was like, yeah, they told me to check it out. I
The one thing that I knew about toy story forward going into or at least like hey, hopefully that's like uh, one of those
Storybooks that's not all that accurate to the source material and then it fucking was
But like nothing else that was terrible about toy story four was spoiled for me. Just the ending with woody
Most important thing. That's the most important thing. What's that? I mean, you know, but other than that nothing at least at least there was still play as a prize for him
So far is very tismic be patient with him. Thank you. Yeah
Okay
Actor arc pretty much perfectly and that's what's always made the toy story films so good
Their focus on this one character and how he deals with and learns from experiences. He goes
All right. So what about buzzes whole how did you see the first film?
Yeah
Would he going on a journey that's why toy stories go it's like toy story five woody learns to become a serial killer
It's like he's going on a journey. He's good. He's learning. He's becoming a different person. Is that not what he does
He said oh shamis. Oh shamis here
He said growing
That's this is like saying that somebody
who
I don't even know
What a good analogy would be but growing implies a sense of logical progression
Not just like flip-flopping right back to what you used to be for no reason
Like it's like not every person
Is growing as a person right you want to grow as a person growing implies
Progress, you know. Yeah, that's probably what he's getting at is the
Would he gain something and changes?
Yeah, he certainly changes. I will agree. He certainly changes you probably clarify
That's jedi
What if like?
I almost said the last skywalker
So like to give more benefit of the doubt then like my argument wouldn't be good enough
I said he became a serial killer and that's how his growth is. It's like no, it's a negative change
Okay, so he becomes a human therapist
Like as in he he opens up a therapist store
He's just a toy and he just gives therapy to people he's because he's he knows a lot about this
And then like if he was like what that's fucking you can't have that because I should be like no it's positive growth
It's you know
And he's growing he wasn't a serial killer before now. He is
His katie is growing it's going with the therapist one, but okay
All right, uh, let's just
The first one is all about him learning how to
Being the favorite toy
Which I just no one ever really seems to stop to talk about how perfect a concept that is for a film revolving around
Oh, yeah, all those all the the wide variety of films we have about sentient toys that are that we know
They are there. I thought I thought most people if not all would probably address the toy story
Didn't we already do that the fact that it's yeah, he's he's upset that he's not the favorite
Isn't that like toy story ones? Well, he's like people should be talking about how clever that is like that's that is the film
like I don't know
They don't want it to be in buzz and how they grow they like they they both learn from each other essentially in the the final scene
It's it's house. Yeah. Yeah, the first movie he is jealous that he is no longer the favorite toy because that was his thing
he kind of like
pistol and in toy story two it goes it evolves from not being the favorite toy anymore to
Not being played with being considered junk
and
That like oh that that day has come to pass and he has grown up
Okay, and he doesn't need you anymore and woody has moved on from that but in toy story force
Woody has neither moved on from losing bow nor being passed down from andy and losing andy
it's like
It's just really strange
People that made this movie really didn't like how toy story three ended
It seems like it was made to undo that
What he says sounds like if someone had said people just don't appreciate john wick one for the fight scenes
Yeah, it would be like I don't know it's not like the main thing i'm sorry is his shelf crooked
Oh, um, I don't know maybe
It's just aligned with the the the posters the posters look really straight
That one looks sideways a little bit the right the right thing is definitely higher than the left thing the supporty thing
Let me wow let's get something into let me i'll do it i'll put it into paint
Fucking find out get us that answer rags. We need i'm pretty i'm pretty sure that I can
Eyeball this shit, but i'm trying to measure it up on my actual screen
No, I here i've got i've got a picture of it right here. I put a line underneath the left one and it doesn't quite it's
Could be the angle that it's shot at it looks they might look a little different
Yeah, this is possibly the biggest flaw in this video just saying
I don't know. It's just it
Because like when we walk through you just tip off think it's the camera lens
Maybe the posters
I don't even know if the posters are lined up because his face is blocking it
but it it
I'd discuss amongst yourself whether or not the cover district
That evan remember when we covered remember when we covered gushin and theo was going on this like very
diatribe about like
When he was making and then I realized that uh, the word justify was misspelled on gushin's little
defaced american flag justify
I I thought that that was like sort of pedantic and nitpicky, but
The shelf is crooked it takes it to a new level
A lot of people picked on us for that
They were saying that we were just nitpicking the back of the flag and i'm like, dude
When you have a video like I don't care if it's a vlog or a video
I say like what's on screen like should hold some significance or like you're putting it on screen for a reason. So
your shelf is
He's the one who put the camera in front of the crooked shelf
It wasn't me
Which I just no one ever really seems to stop to care about how perfect a concept that is for a film revolving around sentient toys
like
Okay, maybe that's not something you slip into a toy store before he's jealous and acts irrationally
What do you know in regular conversation, but it should be and while at first he's jealous and acts rashly as any flawed character would
Throughout the film
We see him learn that being a toy isn't about being the favorite but making his owner and the happy
Which brings us to why is he doing the audio? That's not the audio that plays during that scene in the movie
It's not evan either
Is it echoing no, no i'm saying it's not evan i'm making a joke. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's not it's the he plays
I mean wait, um, it did the show for me. Hang on the video. It's not going to bring us to toy story too
Toys don't last forever toys don't last
Oh, yeah, so you've replaced it because it what are you supposed to say is
I don't want to play I don't want to play with you anymore
Yeah, yeah, he just said it once like i'll slow and like dream like it's it's supposed to be like a real scene. So
Yeah, oh my god. Look at the bots
Thanks
Oh the bot says oh they can't unsee it
Hmm
You're welcome
Thanks rags. No, I can't unsee it. It's so weird
They seem to like they give up and then they're like, all right, the moths the moths are clearly asleep. Go go go
It's like a video game like due to the chat against the waves of bots wave three of seven complete it
Oh man
He's not asking for every spoke the theme and the lesson what he learned in this film because for a split second
He is a theme analyst with immortality in a museum and genuinely considers moving on from Andy for the first time at least
But he realizes that his role oh no, oh that's no
So he's saying it's with
Repression this all it all makes sense because like him deciding that he was going to stay with them because they were going to be
Put in storage and because he was worried about Andy like forgetting about him. That's different
He wakes up in that scene where he's watching the tv man
It's a point of realization for him and like what made it all made sense. Like what why he was deciding these things
Yeah, and then toy story four is like no. No what he's wrong
What he was right to want to go to to a museum in tokyo and live forever
Yeah, you wanted to go be a lost toy in a museum, I guess
I I I absolutely hate toy story four like you you actually like you basically
Did the exact opposite theme of toy story too? They like
Someone pointed this out to me a while ago, but like toy story four basically
Lots so and stinky Pete were right that you know, yeah
Yeah, you're you're eventually just going to be thrown away and it's not going to matter and you know
You shouldn't you shouldn't be reliant on
And it's like in toy story four then actually has would he finally go? Yeah, you know what they were right
Don't use drop trash talk. So
Yeah
Even though, you know, he's literally played with a couple days
No, we're like what do you count out earlier in the day?
Yeah
Yeah, he is not he's not played with for a week
Of course woody who we've seen develop past
He fucking stayed with andy for several years, but people go. Oh, but bonnie isn't andy
She's still his kid andy andy gave us the toy story
Stuck by andy
Adult to someone press the play button I guess
All i'm saying is like even even if bonnie isn't andy
Andy gave woody to bonnie. He entrusted woody to bonnie. So
He's kind of betraying andy too
I mean, yeah, they they like try and justify a lot of any choices he makes in toy story four by
Uh pushing that it's all to do with andy like his
inability to
Because they they try and start that up right that they're trying he's like he's imprinting his experiences with
With andy onto bonnie, like that's the way it should be and that's why he's like upset that it's not working that way or something
but
There's nothing he hasn't experienced before
Like it's I don't know why it seems like they've forgotten
Played with toy andy for years. Yeah, not to mention that like oh, she's playing with
Forky
That is his name, right? It's uh, I hate it so much. Forky, you know
And it's just like oh my god, like like it's hard to deal with the the fact that the
The kid just doesn't it's it's just toy story one again, but this time buzz wants to kill himself
Like that's the uh, that's the difficulty
jeez
Love how like just nonchalant they treat that that he wants to like be thrown away
It's just like dude like this is very similar to like a suicide complex and it's just the way they treat it is almost for gags
It's like dude. It does feel like they want to try and kind of avoid exactly what we're all thinking about it
It's like is that you and it's like no no
He wants to be in the trash whistle. You're like, uh
The trash is warm
It's like it's it's nice and I I always like that like wouldn't just like, you know
Get on one knee and be like, yes forky the trash is very warm
But you see my friends were in a situation where it got a little bit warm. There was this big old fire
Incinerated, you know, like it does get warm in the trash. I'm not gonna lie. So
I just wanted to point out this really great
Eight one cent in the chat where they said
If woody is a vintage toy, which toys are for establishes because he was made in the 50s. Andy is not what he's
So what's special about andy from all of his previous owners
What can't we move on to a new owner after andy right because he was made in the 50s so he must have had
Unless he was on a shelf for like fucking
40 years
Which is bullshit no because that that old ass would have been super popular
Yeah, so he should have had like potentially even between like, you know two and five owners in between then who knows
People think that it was andy's dad who had him and he like gave him andy later on that maybe he had him from
Like a very young age. It's like one way or another he had
At the very least so
I would find that a perfect like even though that's not established in the movies. I'd find that probably like
It's like I thought that the idea of toy story three was even when children grow up and move on
They can pass their toys down to other children, which is by the way
I'm in real life
It's a continuation. I've said this there was a lot of things instead of toy story two which are continued like you have the
Like literally the idea is very similar to a lot. Um, i'm sorry
Prospector tells to woody's like will andy take you to college. It's like that film continues that along you also have the uh
The emily flashback where it's like we're showing that jesse was just like donated and it's like that's that's continued along
It's like is andy gonna do the same. It's just yeah
Andy calls him an old family toy and in toy story implying maybe that belonged to
like the andy family
Yeah, like it just
I don't remember what that was. When did he say that? What did he say? It was an old
Oh, uh, wait, did dandy say that? Yeah
Oh, yeah, I said, oh right the exact
I suppose you could interpret that she could literally just be referring to the fact that it's andy's toy
Yep
Well, that's that's where it could be have more meaning because like even like he's very desperate to buy it off of him
And she just says like sorry. No i'm putting in the lockbox. It's because it's like it's even even though he's damaged. It's like
Favorite toy like she andy's mom as flat as she is because she lets molly a two-year-old ride in the front seat of the car
uh facing forwards
Give one of her like her oldest child's favorite or one's favorite toy away one of his favorite toys away
Yeah, and
And woody's death as the chat had said that you screenshotted
he's had
One if he was made in the late 50s, right?
Then which toys were set?
40
ish
Years 40 plus years since he's been made
I mean, that's a lot of kids to go through. Well, if we're running with the gandalf curse then at this point, you know
He's only been active. Yeah
Like I said, they don't establish when this has happened if these toys have been existing and alive since like the dawn of time
Or like whenever toys were invented quote-un-quote
It's like we don't know when this started like this could have happened like literally a year ago or it could have happened like for
The last 60 years. It's like it's it's kind of unclear in the movies
Lourou apollo says in the chat. I don't think the writers thought this far ahead
Like no shit, bud, like they didn't even look at behind them. They certainly aren't gonna look ahead
It's like they fucking
They just they had some madman
Just like take off the top of their skull and then remove their brains and then they're like, okay
Now i'm qualified to write toy store
story four
Oh
That's about sums it up
The requirement for most stuff these days
Especially the focus film
Especially franchises and ip's like they need to hire people who actively hate the older stuff. That's the important thing
Regression is the key
Like for the first we need a backpedal foreshadowing
But he realizes that his role as a toy foreshadowing and not live on forever in some museum
Which brings us to toy story free work shows?
He's stuck by andy all the way into his adulthood despite years of not getting played with sacrifices being made and have it
And you gotta be kidding me hang on it's at the
One minute here here. I'm gonna go to
Discords mic setting to default
and uh
I think there's a setting to not have discord pick up desktop audio or something like that. So
Uh, there's input device and output device. I don't know if you should fiddle with any of that
problems that take us even further
I was about to say i'll just
I don't want to delay all this though
Because you could lower your sensitivity for you personally
And since it's coming through mauler has he's a streamer here
The one streaming that he can boost you if you're too quiet for him and everyone else, but it won't apply to you
Well, I was about to say the thing is it would
Like your audio is coming in as well. Like it's it's literally just when the video plays
So it's like it's not
It can't be the it can't be that's being picked up from my headphones because otherwise you guys would be echoing, right?
I thought we tested out there like
the
Uh, our our echo cancellation noise suppression and automatic gain control checked on in your uh discord settings under
uh audio, um
I reset them echo cancellation is on noise suppression. All those are on
Uh
I don't know man. I'm just gonna i'm just gonna do the sensitivity thing that I was doing before
Yeah, if I can do a little bit just not I don't think it was
Okay
Yeah, uh, let me go to 50. Can you guys still hear me clearly when i'm putting it down?
Okay, um, it's at 40 i'll leave it for there for now
Yeah, because in discord we can make you as loud as we want essentially
Yeah, so if we need to boost you then we could just boost you ourselves
All right, try it now. Let's see if there's an echo
very
Well, he was sticking with andy through everything until well, he learned the most important lesson of all being a toy
It isn't about being that
I like going isn't it?
There's no way there's no escape i'll just lower it all the way every every every time I did
I I take it up to 74 or 78 and when that's where it was before and then i'll just lower it
All right. I mean it wasn't like 30 something when we did it, right?
Yeah, we were testing it. I don't know though. Who knows?
The lower well, yeah, it seemed to work when it was lower
Yeah, just keep going lower. Don't worry. Like we will tell you if we can't hear you anymore
Yeah, if we if we can't hear you we can right click on you and boost you for us
You're still only on 103 percent for me right now. It's almost default
So, um pretty can you guys hear me? Yeah
Sorry
Can you guys hear me clearly it's at 30?
Okay, you can try I guess if you want for the video
All right
To let other toys go he was sticking with andy through everything until well, he learned the most important lesson of all being a toy
Isn't about being there. It's just now it's coming through. What's your it's it comes through when he likes when he speaks loudly
It can't I don't I don't know what the problem is man. I'm sorry
Oh, i'll lower it like like
It's not it's it's not automatically going back up, is it?
Oh, it's not
All right, because you can still get to because under microphone property, there is
Allow applications to take exclusive control this device which you want to have unchecked
If you don't have that checked then
Something could automatically adjust it
So, uh, for instance, in fact, I'll just take the screenshot here for you if not for now the future reference
Where we were before under device properties
The additional device properties brings you to that sound thing that I was talking about earlier
Microsoft and all of their infinite wisdom decided to make it extremely difficult and convoluted as to how to get to this
Amazing panel for your microphone properties
You want to have the exclusive one turned on?
If it isn't exclusive
And also
Yeah, the the I see the audio thing you're referring to on the side
Yeah, make sure that's unchecked and in discord make sure that you have a
automatically determined input sensitivity is
I mean it says mine is on but it never changes it
So I don't know even why that's there
I'm just going to turn it down every every time with the video plays dude. This is this is insane. I'll fix it later
This is this is taking too much effort
Let's continue i'm so excited who knows what's going to happen
Despite years of not getting played with sacrifices being made and having to let other toys go
He was sticking with andy through everything until well
He learned the most important lesson of all being a toy
Isn't about being there for an adult who doesn't need you anymore
Just for the sake of being loyal not when there could be another kid out there that he could still bring joy to say all that
Bonnie to bonnie, which is why he left bonnie for
Some reason even though that's clearly going to cause her distress because she was playing with him
The day that day I always felt the film killed itself when it had that moment
Where that girl picks up woody really likes him is playing with him and then he just ditches it casually would like oh
Just the swing this flies off. Yeah, they're so heavily all about that
Like you gotta just you know, it's not a particular kid. It's just making kids happy
It's like, okay
Like this girl really is taken with woody
And obviously like, you know bonnie. She loves the fork. All right, fine
Go find someone I guess that you can please as yourself and then he's just like fuck that kid
Do other stuff. It's like oh
Baby, you shouldn't have done that that way
Um
There's an argument that this could be the end of his arc
It's the end of the other toys arcs for sure, but i'll get back to that because this is what brings us
I don't know the other characters that that's interesting
um as little as we see of these these characters like specifically one-on-one
Like what is ham's arc and rex's arc and mr. Potato head's arc and like all of these characters their arcs are done
Is like I don't think we had the screen time to
to go through all of their arcs the best I feel like you could say is like they they
Fucking get they're in an all right state as it is. They're acceptable. Yeah, they're more
They're just characters, right? And I say that in like a in a way
That's just that they are who they are they react to everything
The only thing that i'd say significantly changes for those characters across the movies is their their
Fluctuating trust and understanding of woody and maybe as all of them as a group
But like dare I say it they're just like people
in this
while you know woody jessie buzz they are like
Well, you and the villains, of course, uh, they are the ones that are like
Multidimensional it's like you're not gonna say fucking what is what is the what is rex's arc? Yeah, just I don't know he's
He's does he have the thing where he's like cowardly, but they're not that's the thing they do, right?
You can't roar very loud. And then he does like buzz teaches him for confidence. That's that's a bit of an arc very small
But their arc ended at the end of toy story three and it's like oh
Okay
Did you get so quiet you are quiet
Like i'm just picturing this tiny south pole
Good
All right
I was just gonna say it's like
What happens when bonnie thinks that she's lost a toy? Do you guys remember what happened when bonnie realizes that she's misplaced a toy?
it's like and then
He's going to do that to her anytime that she like as soon as she realizes that she can't find woody
I mean, we know what's gonna happen
No, look how distraught she is when she can't find forky for three seconds
Forky
Because she's a
Five-year-old child and they're stupid. So they panic over the tiniest little things
They don't understand object permanence yet
They think even when they turn a corner that the objects are gone forever
Anyway, yeah
So what do you find out woody only kind of learned to listen because despite bonnie not playing with him as much anymore
Yes, you don't see the problem when you when you said he kind of learned to say like he kind of forgot his lesson
And here's the thing so woody sort of forgot about uh his life
And oh yeah play the clip of her disregarding him in that moment
Don't play maybe he'll do in a second and i'll take back what I say, but don't play the clip of her playing with woody
Don't don't play that
He's sticking by her, you know, just for the sake of being loyal almost as if he felt he had to because well
I mean he's can't move he's a toy
And
Is he suggesting that like he should have understood that bonnie and him just aren't compatible?
Which isn't even true
Yeah
Is he suggesting that?
instead of him abandoning every kid that doesn't play with him for
A little bit is what yeah, like you didn't do that with andy
What is he gonna do with bonnie just because she likes a fork
Should all toys abandon their owners if any one toy is played with more than others. Oh, come on
Yeah
Norman toy story one at any rate. So and then this is ditched
Andy threw everything even bow peep getting taken away, which kind of just say was taken away
Interesting way to phrase her leave us it's not playing for me
Oh, she's oh it's a 248. It's not playing
um
He had to because of how he's anything different now
247 is it playing now with andy for every yes, even bow peep getting taken away
Which kind of just say was the perfect opening for the movie. It was horrible. No, let's talk about this opening. Shall we?
So
first off
Bo peep
The opening nothing like how she acts in the original movies and they do a brand new characters
Yeah, she looked like operation pull toy and she's very action oriented and
And shit and they do this specifically to gaslight people into thinking
Oh how she is going to be in the rest of this movie isn't that big of a stretch given how she's been all along
But not every watch toy story one and two and she is very passive
Submissive docile. She is nothing like she is in this scene
And if you want to generate a narrative that has a strong female wamans in there
Why not use jessie? I don't understand why you dug up bow peep. I don't get it
Just use jessie
Yeah, she was adventurous. She like she did exactly she's got all the traits that they've just stapled onto bow peep
I don't know why they did this like it's such a strange like
All you need is to just have a narrative where jessie starts to
Desire something more, you know, and you can tie that back to the fact that she's been with multiple kids or something
Like maybe maybe make her the main character
Like we've been suggesting it could have been about something other than woody you could have had woody be like the mentor character
Jesse would be a great character for a film i'd see a film about her
Um, yeah, we've seen her before we have a reason to be invested in her
Maybe you could have like a toy that that bonnie
like uh really likes right like you're starting off the movie and like okay, so
The bonnie already other favorite toy that's kind of like overtaken woody and woody's fine with it
And then bonnie gets another toy that then replaces that toy
Is starting to kind of like show signs of woody's jealousy from the from the first movie and woody has to kind of like
Help him work that out and everything
You know
Now if he said the character changes as a result of the the antique store stuff and he's like, no we're talking about like
In the beginning of the opening scene. Yeah, this is the
Behaving
And she's even like she's commanding the room which is really odd. She's like you do this you go here and it's like wait
What when when he went like bitch? Who are you? You don't know woody
No, that's the thing if you had jesse doing it I could believe it be like yeah, yeah, jesse commanded jesse. He'll be fine
Yeah
But you're like fucking bo peep
You're like we're supposed to give a shit about bo peep by the way
Sure, that's not in most of either of the two uh, the first two movies
She's basically like a fucking background extra
Well, yeah, it would be like they just open this scene and rex is like right everybody do this this is this we're like
Wait, what since when was what?
Unlike his his legs aren't, you know toy like anymore. They're like fully
Manipulatable and he's got like bigger arms and which is like, uh, this is not
I'm not following. Oh
How about we we've mentioned the fact that bo peeps?
Made a porcelain to cloth in between movies. Let's discuss that. Shall we?
How about the fact that in toy story two her dress is clearly porcelain
Like it doesn't move like it's made of cloth or anything
And that would that's probably good for the for the animators because that makes her a less complex thing to animate and then
Long and suddenly bo peeps clothes are not made of porcelain
They're not attached to her and she can just take off this address and there's like a jumpsuit underneath it
So she can be action ready
Yep
Yeah
They they straight up
They straight up
like the
The material that her clothes are in order to make her into a fucking ray ripoff. It's great
She's amazing. It's really
Yeah
And and yeah, and and just the part that I because this will be in the efap movies when it finally comes out
But when she's like i'm going we were like what what do you mean you're going? Where are you going?
Why are you going and then she's like you can come with and he like considers it and it's like what the fuck is happening?
Like why this is while you
play by the way
Oh speaking of andy andy does not look anything like andy from the first three movies
How do you see that?
You have so many references. He does not look anything
You have the fucking files on your computer. Just copy him and I get it. I
It's a nitpick but toy story three shows like andy like he's looking at a picture of himself
um in the in the
What adult andy is looking at it at a younger picture of himself
and
Um, it looks the same. It looks like the same andy is from toy story went into
Graphics, you know the the animation and graphics looks better with each passing toy story movie
And then toy story four comes along and entirely changes well
It's really strange
He like underwent, but he must have there must have been some horrible accident and he underwent like like major
absorption surgery
Maybe they just thought he was really ugly and they're like we gotta make him hot now because no how modern thing maybe
Maybe he had maybe he had a mask making device that they didn't show
Yeah
It's a team
Um play creations I can tell
You could shoot as well 12 day review of stars rises color. Why would I make it so short?
All your flowers are wilting too, they're very sad flowers
What the oh, did pikachu make that nice I know
Hey, you don't have skeleton hands in this one. You're I'm like i'm a real ass human. Yeah
You're growing as a character. Did you did you know that? Uh, it's a lot of people are attaching like
uh
Masks and stuff to the avatars now that's becoming like a more and more popular thing as time goes on and I was just like
Is it i'm seeing the coronavirus?
Yeah, yeah
I saw it a lot with the fandom men as people like they've been put in gas masks on and well not
Not just that but like breathing masks different things and stuff, and I was just like I won't even need to i'm all set
There you go corona immune
Different I've never seen tea. I know it's I know it's fucking tea. All right. I'm drinking it right now
That doesn't sound like tea. That sounds like rocks
And and just like
In the britainland it is ice cold
unsweet black tea
What do you what do you have a problem with sweet
Because it's disgusting. Wow
And I know that I am in arkansas and it's the south and when I worked in a restaurant whenever people asked tea
You was basically the default to bring them sweet tea
So you always ask sweet or unsweet because people down here when they drink their tea, they drink it sweet
Um, uh, pretty sure it's pronounced arkansas rags
I am pretty sure that is not the case
What if you woke up tomorrow and every other human being said that
Arkansas is not the south fucking shitting me. You know what side we were in of the civil war
We literally were in the confederate states of america
You're not the south to mexico. Are you idiot?
But the confederate states of america are never referred to as the south though
Say what the confederate states of america are never ever ever referred to
Oh, yeah, the the csa is never inflated with the south
Never know arkansas. Does that mean assault rifle kansas? Is that what that means?
Arkansas the etymology of arkansas. I believe it's a it's a native american word. Sorry indian word. They prefer indian
I want to be respectful. I heard about that. Yeah, I watched a cgp grave video on it. Um
Apparently they prefer indian but we had willed. Well, I guess it depends on who you ask, right? That's like a there's like a whole thing
What because I would feel like calling them
Indian is actually older than calling them native american because they're well, I don't even know
Um, I if I if I was an indian i'd prefer
Native american seems like you're fucking preaching
It's like african-american is like you've never been imagine they were like just call us lord
Like oh, I don't you don't call me i'm not a european american here
You are to me
Okay
All right, thanks
That's how I gain brotherhood by my european american
Um, the arkansas comes from is a french pronunciation of a croix pas word
Uh akakazi meaning land of down river people or the su akakazi meaning people of the south wind
Anyway, uh toy story, how about it? That's great
I'm stuck with an even
Both people getting taken away which kind of just say was the perfect opening for the movie
It was a hugely powerful and emotional scene with bow peep realizing that molly had no like from nightlight anymore
It was a hugely powerful scene where bow peep realized body of the it's not even body. It's uh, did you say body? Sorry
No, did he say it give me a sec because of how he stuck with andy through everything even
Bo peep getting taken away, which kind of just say was the perfect opening for the movie
It was a hugely powerful and emotional scene with bow peep realizing that molly had no
Nightlight anymore and the hazard um, but yeah realizing she doesn't need a light nightlight anymore. It's like I don't
Like don't you feel like the other toys like you were there in that room chewing orders and everybody like isn't she more than a nightlight
Yeah, she could get off and
She could leave her place at the lamp and go and do stuff and she's apparently some elite squad leader
And everyone obeys her orders
The logic well, so let's just this is how the scene should have played out
It's like she doesn't need a light light anymore. Then what he's like, okay, so one you're not just a nightlight, too
What about everyone?
Yeah, don't aren't they going to be like where's bow peep?
Did you just say goodbye you bitch?
Like she expected him to come with her and he almost did
Yeah, though. That's the crazy thing. Fuck
What's up everybody all of your friends that you've been there for years and what you guys have saved each other's lives
Yes, remember the yard sale that opens up toy story, too
The only thing that stopped him from jumping into that box
Did we running out woody? Yeah, it was an empty thing
Andy not done that he would have continued and walked into the box, which is insanity
What does he expect him to do is a yard sale
That establishes how much they want to stick together
Could you imagine if he thought in and then it cuts back to the room and they're all like where is he?
Where are they? What do we do? We have to they've been something's gone wrong. We have to find them. Oh god
You're right. You're right. This is like the the opening of toy story four is like terminator dark fate. They're
To what he just goes back on, you know
The lesson of the movie and they actually considered like yeah in canon shortly after toy story two
Just splits off like not long after saying i'll always have buzz let your arm by my side for infinity and beyond
It's like fuck that not even gonna say good he doesn't even say well at least let me say goodbye to my friends
He's like fuck it
Guys the only reason he says goodbye to them in this movie is because they turned up. He was planning on ditching them
He's like, oh I guessed it there. Remember while the dad was trying to open the door for 12 hours
Yeah, this also
It's like this in this movie like woody is about to get into this box with bow peep
Peep is like convincing to like again woody is a fucking simp in this movie
His actions are dictated by like him trying to please all the women in his life
It's crazy
And the one woman he should be pleasing is buzz
Yes
To know when it's the right time to move on what woody considered leaving andy for a second time
He had his name called in that second and realized how much andy needed him and just couldn't do it
I mean, that's that's one way to read that
That's the problem
I'm, sorry. No, so it's like this
um, luke skywalker considered murdering his nephew in his sleep with
Yes for a second equally similar to it
Yeah
He just briefly went back on a principle that he is
entire life
It was just a moment of weakness
Right there being like hey man come with me and he's like whoo
Yeah
Gotta smash that porcelain pussy
I was expecting something a lot more lighthearted to start
But no straight in and little did we know when first watching but this turned out to be arguably the most
Important scene in the entire film because it explains why woody is the way he was
He sacrificed so much to stay with andy and just thought that was how you had to be with your owner
He had to be there for bonnie no matter what even if she didn't need him anymore
What do you mean didn't need him anymore? Does this count for all of the toys?
I don't get this
How do they decide when they're not needed anymore when they don't get played with for a fucking selection of days?
So it's like again, that seems like very shaky
I was gonna say he played with anyway, so I don't even yeah, it's in the film
You know that scene that you didn't show you showed the other one
not to men
In toy story one, you know how woody is not the favorite toy anymore. Well, guess what andy still plays with him
So it's like yeah, the novelty of forky is going to wear
Especially being with you again woody like it's it's gonna fall the fuck apart that stupid monstrosity. So it's fine
I mean mauler. Have you ever like okay?
When you were little you would have a toy and then you get a new toy and the new toys like hey, that's the
That's that's the that here's the thing you get a new toy and that's the new
It's all your focus, right?
But then you go back to the other toy that you had before you got the new toy
Because you would still deep down have feelings for that toy
So why in the world does we not contemplate that?
You know like oh, maybe bonnie still actually does have feelings for deep down. It's just that she is
The novelty of trash the woody was made in the 50s that means he's old so it makes sense that he had
All of the pauses whatever it's his face they've all been rather funny it's not deliberate at all
He just oh the very animated person. That was yeah, that was a thing. I noted when I uh, when I covered
Sorry, his other video in my podcast
We
fucking
with my facial expression
Andy and just thought that was how you had to be with your owner
He had to be there for bonnie no matter what even if she didn't need him anymore
And right from the start woody is constantly drawing comparisons between andy and bonnie dolly has to remind him that bonnie isn't andy and even
Yeah dolly's a fucking bitch
It's like it's so strange. It's like it's just out of nowhere. Like you look at dolly's like few scenes from uh, toy story three
She's overall like pretty pleasant and then just out of nowhere. She's just like straight up beta cucking woody
When he's trying to help out
Uh, but even then I have issues with like how woody tries going about he's like
Like overbearing this sort of like, you know bonnie needs a toy
Like help her get through kindergarten. Like really is that a thing?
Is that a thing?
I can believe it
Really a yeah a kindergartner bringing a toy with them to
Yeah, of course. Absolutely. I can believe that if you have a problem with that
Yeah, I do have a problem with that. You have a you have a really
Have you are you are you are you a father or a mother? I don't want to assume these days, you know
I'm an I'm an uncle. You're an uncle. I'm an uncle
I'm not I don't know why I ask because i'm not a father either
Wait, i've never I've never likelihood of a child bringing a toy to kindergarten
Yeah, I think it's totally possible
Well, I don't know isn't just bringing it right that is that that's that's not your problem that he wouldn't bring a toy to
Kindergarten, right? It's just is it I probably did that when I was a kindergartner
I don't know of that being a
What do you mean I I probably did it no
In fact, i'm almost certain I did like I would bring toys when I went to the grocery store with my dad when I was a
tiny tiny
Uh staying character. Oh, so yes
I remember one of them was from
Fuck we're going tangent. Fuck it. We're doing it. Uh,
Morning morphin power rangers. Who was the evil bad guy who was red?
uh
Zed let's see. Uh z power rangers zed
Yes, it was dead with two d's. I had a little little zed
Toy and I brought him into the grocery store one time. Okay, and I left him in the cart once and so
We went back and got him
Okay. Well, I can concede that point then
All right. Well, it's fine. All it took was an anecdote from ranks. All right. Thanks
I don't know where you are right now
She's probably in a fucking trash can
Baking another child's smile
Is is that now going to be a part of the efap lore? Are we going to start absorbing power rangers lore into efap?
Um zed
The the crux of my problem with this is is dolly dolly's a cunt in this movie. Okay
Just enough
Yeah, she's yeah she is she's uh, you just guys don't like she's a girl that's pretty much it i'm calling you yeah
Right fork he works out. He never got over and that's why in this film
He finally learns that despite the fact bonnie wasn't the right kid for him. There are still plenty. What do you mean?
How do you mean? She was literally playing with him yesterday
She was smiling and playing with him yesterday
Pull up pull up that screen cap pull up that screen cap of molly
And with woody and forky
It's right there in the chat. We have it. We have it in our little
group call thing
Well, uh, he's not the right toy don't you get it
No, he's the left toy. Uh
He's in her left hand right here. Yeah, I should know that
I don't know how woody concluded this it to me like if we're being charitable
It just seems to be in the film that he's like, I don't know. I want to hang out with opie. I don't know
Yeah
Let's see. This seems to be all the biggest things that pushed him towards lost toy life
Let me actually um, let's see here. Where is my input over there?
You're a strange shot as a self-taught dog whistle
Lost or funny
Playing oh yeah. Uncle jamie points out. I guess girls are flakier than boys then. Yes
Yes, that is constant into yeah in toy story four. Oh, yeah
Yeah, girls are flakier than than boys like
Stick with their toys and girls
No, and girl toys will want to leave their owners in
The more male toys. Yeah would want to
They're more loyal in the movie. Try saying that loyalty is a bad thing
Kids out there we could still bring joy to as bus says bonnie will be okay
And I think becoming an ownerless toy is the perfect ending to woody's story alongside being not sure
Why being an ownerless toy should be the last thing on the planet he wants
All the fires, please like how does it progress on everything that you were laying out like he described the other films pretty well
It's like this goes everything
Toy story two has what it's all about making a child happy
Toy story two has buzz say that woody taught him that life was only worth living if you were being loved by a kid
like that
Being obelisk means he could be loved by every kid
First three movies. The first three movies are about this the toys purpose
Enjoy to children to be loved by children
That's the greatest thing ever for these toys and then toy story four goes no. No, they should be
They shouldn't they should just be these independent beings that aren't played with children
They should all just run off and and leave their kids
But it's good because
Because he directs toys to new kids. He's like, uh, that's what lost toys. Do they make they join kids with toys?
also
What's interesting about this scene right where she's playing with forky and woody?
is that
Um, she's playing with him as children do with the toys. It's playing
and in
In that that shot, right?
When they when the mom and dad come out with the food
She instantly puts them both on the ground and runs to the food
Because she's a kid. Well, I guess we like that that woody and forky need to go because she likes food more than them
No, they she doesn't like them anymore
That's just like just puts them both down. She didn't take forky with her and leave woody
What we're trying to establish here is that this logic could be applied to andy
And the the first three films were a mistake woody should have just left in the first place
Yeah
Oh my god, I keep going back to this
Keep going back to this this movie was made by people that hated the first three movies
They hated
Just three movies and they wanted to correct it
It's like if someone were to make a lore of the rings sequel where they have to explore. Hey, maybe maybe it's not that
All evil, maybe there's some orcs that are good. They're not just an evil race of monsters
No, no, no, that's racist. You get into
Racism allegory and the lore of the rings like no, how about we don't how about we just accept that in middle earth?
There are races that can all just
Okay
You said all the races can and then you cut out
It can just be evil is what I said, okay
like that
That there are races in middle earth that are just evil. Okay, and there's there's no need
Well, you know not all orcs are evil. Not all urakai are evil. Not all balrogs are evil
Like no, you know what? Let's not think about that here
real world philosophies and ethics about racism and everything to
To the lord of the rings and to to middle earth. Okay, let's not
Do all this stuff about toys should be independent and not having to be loved by children in
In the toy story or series if you want to make a story like this, how about you?
sentient toys
Series and leave toy story alone. How about you do that?
Only just go somewhere else these characters were done
Feel that way about the ot and the sequels to that too
And there's like we should be happy about the idea that gets to see more of them and at this point
We're just sitting in the corner crying like please let them be just leave them be
Devastating me sad as buzz says he's not lost anymore and then they go to infinity and beyond
But I don't really want to go into that much more because
I've cried myself to sleep and off this week because while there are a few others
That made this film different to the others like when they parody
What he's sad about he's sad about the ending of toy story four he thinks that's a good ending because
To infinity and beyond but they
Separate no, no buzz like they don't just leave at the end right buzz
Specifically does not go back into the building to help woody save forky. He turns around and leaves woody
He leaves walks away. He leaves woody to his face
Yeah, I don't want to understate that. Yeah, fucking part. We'll we'll get to that
Like we haven't we haven't come across buzz yet. We're gonna get there. It's gonna happen
How about how about buzz being the one who like he's encore
She'll be okay. Bonnie will be okay
Like wow, no, she won't she's gonna be a wreck when she wants to play with you and you're not around
No, they already know she doesn't like woody. They know it. They know it
Oh, okay
We know that by turning the flashback scene into a joke with duke kaboom not being able to jump as far as the advert
Oh god, this fucking scene so it kind of been playing a major part like the other duke kaboom making fun of um
Uh jessie's backstory was strange like the jessie flashback like like, you know
When evan and I rewatched toy story two there was one scene that we just we did not talk we we talked
Okay, we were those assholes that just talked through the movie
But there was one bit that we refused to say anything until it was done and it was the scene
Going into her backstory with that really sad when she loved me song and that was like pixar at its best
Okay, that was the that was the first five minutes. They know how to pluck them hot strings
They've kind of gotten shitted lately though
And then toy story three they uh, they sort of do the same thing but
Lotso and lotso handles it a lot worse than jessie does like jessie
Uh, her dominant emotion is sadness. Okay and
And fear and lotso his dominant emotion is anger, you know
It really pisses him off and it makes him jaded and then toy story four
And you have keanu reeves being shoehorned into the story just to make fun of those scenes
That's what I mean, it came across as really strange it's like why you why
Those scenes are like some of the best material instead of the toys tour movies like people love those scenes and it's just like
You're you're making a joke of it. Like why?
Her character that isn't really that useful at all because they could have achieved what they wanted without him
Twice the two times he's used in the film
Both times where you're like, wait, why don't you just not do that and do this?
They frame it like it reeves of all in this movie
Other films there was no point in the film where buzz was convinced
He was a space ranger or a cameo from the evil empreserve and I feel like just in general
There were less references to the other films making this film less nostalgic
But at the end of the day, none of these things are overly important things yet
You can sell a film fully off nostalgia
But sometimes a nod to something in a sequel can be confused with actual good storytellers and this film was without what is actual
Good storytelling shavest
Buzzword actual I just let you did actual good. You need to you need to throw the rest of the legitimate reel
You got to get them all
To doubt a good story that focused on the important things being
Woody's character. I don't know if you noticed but it was a very woody centric story
Sorry, if your draw just dropped again
You might need to quickly readjust which leads me to one of the things that made this film feel very different
The secondary characters all kind of got sidelined a little, you know rex, mr
Potato head slinky and ham none of them had a very big pot
It's a bit much to say they got sidelined that implies they were in it for a lot longer than they were
yep
They were more just posters in the background
What is
Entire film like he did nothing
He's just there
Um, but at least at least he's acknowledged that you know
And this is one of the only major complaints people had about this film and I get it
These are four of my favorite characters name another film franchise where a pig a dog a dinosaur and a potato. Oh
Were these guys? Oh, I guess that's no point in favor of toy story being perfect
I don't make the rules
It wasn't only them who didn't have real character rocks and development in the film
You have to like some jesse. I almost feel like we need to stop because he's just like
Okay, bam bam bam. I mean
Can we go back and fire like a tiny bit and just try?
Like yeah, like I don't
I mean i'm following like he said that like yeah, they don't get much to do at all
Which means it's a point down from perfection
Um, and then he's moving on to say jesse bullseye, etc
I'm assuming he's going to say they don't get shit to do as well
I don't know if he's going to try and justify it a film franchise where a pig a dog a dinosaur and a potato
All rub off on each other so well, you can't oh, well, I guess that's no point in favor of toy story being perfect
I don't make the rules
It wasn't only them who didn't have real character rocks and development
Oh, I guess you sorry. I guess you were saying toy story as a whole is perfect because it
It combines the it's not perfect the pig the dinosaur the potato and the dog being unique does it mean it's good
Yeah, we we spent the first two hours of the stream establishing that none of the movies are
Now they all have flaws
And it picks but also there's at least two or three major ones in each movie
Yeah, let's show up
The payoffs of the the significant payoffs in the endings of all three. Yeah, there's there's flaws
It's fine
A film franchise where a pig a dog a dinosaur and a potato all rub off on each other so well
You can't oh, well, I guess that's no point in favor of toy story being perfect
I don't make the rules
It wasn't only them who didn't have real character rocks and development in the film
You have to like some jesse bullseye and bonnie's toys basically all in the same boat or should I say rv?
That wasn't even remotely funny. I don't know it wasn't pointing that out was funny though, right? Yeah, it's hilarious
You can't do this. Don't do it all the time inside of videos. They'll like stop themselves
It's like it's like an outtake but they do it in the middle of the video. They're like, oh, I made a mistake
It's like save that for the end or like i'm just gonna say it when I do it. It's funny
I think when jay does it it's funny
He usually does it. It's funny. He usually um tries to be one step ahead of the viewer
Like if the joke we can see the joke coming is gonna be that wasn't very funny
He's usually gonna have something up his sleeve to try and sub expectations because jay is a yeah
I would have just simply said like fresh off the boat. Well rv and just moved on from it
You know, yeah, like it wasn't even a joke. It was like it's kind of like that phrase except i'm
I'm adding a little bit to make it relevant and it's not supposed to be a joke. It's just a little like
Okay, I agree. Yeah moving on don't give your brain. Don't give people's brains time to think about how
Pointless it was almost
Yeah
Like you know, they're in the same boat fall rv and
Characters like the aliens almost completely left out the film like they make a brief cameo
But other than that nothing they don't even have a line which honestly surprises me because the aliens are everywhere when it comes to toy
Story, but you bought all this shit. Okay, you bought all these things you purchased
They're all over the merch but why aren't they in the movie like is that gonna be your argument like
This is the thing i'm curious where he's going
Is he trying to because it's I I think it's very rare for someone to say all of these important characters are not even really in
The movie and i'm curious like so what are you gonna like? Where's the butt?
You know is he's really like but that's not important because it's like oh god
Well, my biggest issue with is mainly with jessie as one of the old characters because there's no way she'd be this passive
While all this stuff was happening. She did one thing with the nail once
Yeah, she used the nail once. Oh
Once okay, i'm not gritting my teeth when I say once
It's just there's no way that jessie while woody's going out there and he's missing and there's an adventure to be had
and she's got
Uh bullseye with her so she can move around quick
There's no way she'd be like well, I guess i'll just stay here and not go on this adventure to save my friend
That sounds like jessie what is writing?
Yeah
Them not being in the film isn't gonna be good for their brand
What are they gonna do now like make your own forky toy or something?
I was a joke, but i've just why wouldn't they that sounds like the most logical thing they could do
That sounds like the most disney thing that I could absolutely believe
Create your own forky. Yeah, I don't know why they wouldn't do that. Yeah, create your own shit. How how is it 20 dollars?
The imperials are like it's a pipe cleaner
Some buddy just kidding a pop tickle stick and a spork and some googly eyes. That's like never seen
This is disney tm's
Toy story full tm
Create your own forky kit tm. Okay, this is straight up disnoid bullshit. Yeah
20 dollars to fucking
Make a thing that you can this is this is a disnoid sort of pack. Yeah, agree with that
Also, also shout out has fucking buzz like you're on his bed
I my brother had one when he's like
My nine it was like man, that's so not fucking cool
It's come to realize that's a real thing that exists it this is like the crocs of disney merchandise as I said earlier
All these toys they can't pause the video apparently. Oh, so that's why it's okay. They're not in the movie because they've completed their ox
Okay, oh, yeah, they have nowhere else they have achieved
Peak character. They have undergone. What was ham's arc? He became
less than an asshole
What was rex's arc came less cowardly?
What was slinky's arc came less long?
What was
What was um, uh, mr. Potato head's arc
Like
Falling apart constantly and coming back together. It's beautiful for legacy. Oh, yeah
He got away
That's the second
At the end of the first one. Yeah
And just like in a marriage story once you get married, that's it. You're done
Being a marriage story. Everyone should see it. It's really good
First comes love then comes marriage and you're done
That's it. Yeah, they don't can die. There's no there's no extra bit
What was the arc for I want to know what bullseye's are
he made
He um, he became super fast
and initially
Very insecure over how slow he was but then he became fast enough to
To catch up to an airplane and he proved that he can do it. He proved that he can be
Yeah, you could have replaced duke kaboom
Totally could have yeah, you could have replaced all the fucking new characters with all of the old characters
You know the ones I give a shit about
Instead of just cram all the new characters you possibly can into a thing to sell toys to kids
I swear to god, I think shameless is the kind of person who'd be like, yeah, but we've seen them. I'll be like
He buys he but baller he buys mugs with the toy story aliens on them
Disnoid, um, he's a passionate fan. Okay
Hey, uh rags is this as bad though as having a funko pop of lando calrissian
It's work I think it's
I'll explain I'll explain my reason. Okay. All right funko pops are by design
Uh close enough to each other that they're collectible and can be like lined up
Funko pops are not impressive as individuals. They are impressive quote unquote impressive as collections
Right, right. They're like, yeah, so I can I think it's less
retarded and lame
In disnoid dian to buy a funko pop of lando
Especially if you have a bunch of other funko pops and you line them up in groups
I doubt he has a mug collection
Maybe he does he seems that maybe he does maybe he has all the mugs of all the toy story characters, right?
Mm-hmm. I think that's I think that that's my reasoning. That's what i'm going for. Okay, okay
Well, I'd like to quickly give a shout out by the way to my real life friend sierra who was watching this
Hello, I just wanted to say that she asked me to promise to give her a shout out
And I know I have specified not my friend my real life friend. I'm gonna i'm gonna say a personal
Hello, yeah to the people out there john. Hello there
Is this probably there's gonna be at least one out there. Hey john. How you doing, buddy? Thanks for watching. Hello
Hello
Hello the game
Agnes day
No, not agnes days
No, what did you say days? Oh, you know, do you know what that is?
Because I thought you were referencing. So did you know what that is agnes day?
Yeah, it's that uh, it's that church group agnes day. Oh fuck. I don't know about that
I'm talking about what it is as a it's it's no that's opus day. I'm sorry agnes day
This day means um, lamb of god
It's um, it's in it's the code to get through some kind of security thing in bioshock too
You have to record the guy's voice saying agnes day and then you can get through a bunch of shit. Do you remember that?
Oh, I think I remember that. Yeah, I do. What a strange memory for me to have been triggered by
Mistreating something you said
Yes, he saw the chance in bioshock too. There you go
Someone said opus day was the the group from uh, the dan brown novels. Uh
I got the guy confused with agnes day
Opus day is don't work work of god
Agnes day is lamb of god and to come back to the video this scene was made fucking shit, wasn't it?
By uh, yep. Yeah. Yeah. No, um evan and I when we were watching toy story three
I'm like, oh, it's such a beautiful ending and then toy story four came along improved. Yeah, booped all over it. Yeah, this is
Yeah, yep
All the emotional resonance gone
And he grew up and now they moved on to bonnie
They didn't have the connection to andy the woody had making it easier for them to move on
Um
I would like for you with buzz
Andy is the only child buzzes like ever known he got buzz he got with the andy was his first kid
Yep
I mean
It's like good pussy. You never forget your verse
you know, that's
That's that's the
well, yeah
We don't know the histories of these characters and how much andy means to them personally
Angels and demons. Yeah, I think it was I think it was also in uh, uh hitabinchiko
This is this is the whole oh bonnie isn't andy argument
I'm gonna i'm gonna roll him back. Make sure we got that
Oh god, but the thing is as I said earlier all these toys have completed their arcs
They helped andy grow up and now they've moved on to bonnie. They didn't have the connection. That's not completing your arc
Yeah, that's a really weird way to describe your arc as
Like a loading bar for another person like that doesn't uh, listen luke got his hand chopped off
He's gonna go face down vader. He's completed his arc
No, yeah, but you have to restart the arc once kylo ram was born. That's how that works
Yeah, it's I feel like slinky is kind of the the representation of how disney makes stories
It's just like round and around and around and around and around moving forward in a technical sense, but not going anywhere
Yeah, like chronologically. Yes, there is time being progressed. Sure. We'll give you that
Being easier for them to move on and quite frankly this film wouldn't have worked if they just tried to shoehorn all these characters into
Major roles just because why do you say literally shoehorned new ones into the old rule?
Why did they do this? It always annoys me when they they argue in post like it was the rightest choice to have them out
To say like if they were in it would have been shoehorned. It's like why by that logic every character is shoehorned
Yeah
This is the most shoehorny movie. I might have seen in a long time
shoehorny movie
Yes, the shoehorny movie i've ever seen
I follow it makes sense to me. Remember when remember when ren said that they they had to squeeze henry cavill into the plot of
the
horned dark vader into a new
Boarding contest it's been in every toy store videos boy. All right
Yeah, like seriously like they're like, okay
We need to get to the the the doors of the cabinet to open it with the key. How do we get there?
Let's go and find
a canadian
Evil can evil toy that can we can heist hoist his fucking?
Platform up to like the top of a different cupboard
Propel him across with a repel line to attach to the doors to cycle to them. It's like why don't you just
Prop one of you up with another one of you to get to the handle
Yeah
I just I feel like this is really dumb seems like a bit shoehorny to me, you know
Seems like them shoes are getting horny to me. That's that's what i'm thinking
Listen, everyone wants to fuck a croc. All right
Let's talk about another scam
That's like a dollar's worth of materials that they sell for I don't even know how much if you bought a croc you got scammed
Okay, they've got lots of people anything other than shoehorned as well
She just fucking happens to be here
Or he happens to bump into her to not only does he happen to bump into a stupid lamp
He happens to bump into her personally
Like yeah, she hasn't traveled far from the lamp at all. She seems horny for shoes. That's that's my take. Anyway, that's my me personally
Um, I have to shout out
Rex by the way this film won the Oscars for animation
Um this guy from chat named grith phoenix source rex says by the way this film
Would ask her for a best animated feature truly a sad day in animation history
Sad day in oscar's history like a sad day in cinema history like the animation animation is good
His best animated film was what it won
What did it beat out?
Let's see
Link or what were the other beat out? Um
Animated feature film oscar nominees
All right, so
Uh how to train your dragon the hidden world?
I lost my body
Klaus
missing link in toy story four
It's claws and people said that that was really good. I never how to train your dragon three wasn't wasn't good
But it was a more deserving
Uh, we'll be curious to see how the chat reacts to that one
Yeah, I don't is that commonly accepted. I have no idea like I guess i'll find out in a second
I think I think that people generally like
The missing link and it wouldn't surprise me if the missing link was good because it like stop motion animated movies tend to be pretty good
You think like
Wow looks like chat loves clouse
All right, it's about to it's got norm mcdonald in it. Oh my god
And he was apparently amazing in it
Yeah, if that movie is clouse let's do it
That sounds like it would work for you. I would be watching it like it sounds like it's just
Watch it
Yeah, you'll watch clouse and then you'll just be even more pissed off at toy story 4b
That's the animated feature. I haven't even seen the others and i'm pissed off
I think like i've seen how to train your dragon 3 and i'd say
Is more worthy of that of that nomination than toy story 4. So and
Marv why did you retract that? I was literally about to read out your comment. I thought it was funny. What did he say?
What did he say? Marv said that mr. Potato head's arc was finding his angry eyes
And I thought that was really funny right as I was looking at it
I remember that's that's after the credits t2, right?
Ts2 the toy story too. I don't really need to say ts2 t2. I think intimidated too. Anyway, question stats
Well, no, the mr. Angry eyes thing goes up. Well, the mr. Angry eyes thing is uh, is always when he's packing the movie itself
Yeah, i'm thinking the blooper is when she's just like hacking loads of shit and your angry eyes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Doesn't she play no intuitively like explodes like arb of a
in the outtakes
You're right angry eyes
But he's still aware that he has them and then he takes that
He puts on his like feet like another pair of
Eyes are and he's like this is the you know time for mr. Angry eyes, but he's got
If they actually had
Mr. Potato head used his angry eyes in toy story 3 or 4 that would have been awesome
awesome little payoff
But no, they just recycle some some really bland don rickel's lines from a fucking video game in a previous toy store
And have them do nothing
Do you know that did anyone play stars bounty hunter out of our cast here? Yeah in the game cube
They had numbers in that game and the bloopers were like create like the toy story ones where um
Is like they're setting up for a cutscene and then uh jango is like what's my motivation?
And the direct is like you you're a bounty hunter
You hunt bounties, but he's like, all right. All right. All right. I get it. Okay. I just I don't know
It's hard to get into
It's just like it just makes me think like yeah that fucking
Really ever happened. It's such a weird reference that I know that one did it a toy story did it like making bloopers, you know
yeah
And there were funny bloopers, too
Like even if they're not like it's not that of course is not an authentic gag reel, but it's still funny is like it's nice
It's nice. We will put an effort. We watched that effect me with throw away jokes. They had montross
Coming up to a bounty and I think they had the bounty was tlj or something in the meme
But I remember there being a blooper for that where he's just like, you know, ominously walking forward almost like a silhouette
And he just falls over
Okay
Good shit. I like that game. I haven't played in a long time though. So i'd be curious if it uh,
If it holds up, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah
Anyway, let's talk more. Yeah, let's move on
soy tori
And quite frankly this film wouldn't have worked if they just tried to shoehorn all these characters into major roles
Just because that's what works in toy story two and three
That logic hurts me like it what
You just said it worked so well in toy story two and three
Well, they weren't shoehorned in that but they would have had to have been shoehorned this I don't understand from his
His own point he's trying to make
Didn't he didn't this guy just say that the the dynamic that dinosaur
And a dog and a potato have is one of the things that makes toy story. Perfect. Okay, they removed that from this one
This man is counting his own points and then making like non points
I just don't like the whole like they were great in this movie because they weren't shoehorned
But they would have been shoehorned this one. It's like that's not fair
To be fair to be fair toy story for his existence is shoehorned
Thank you unpopular opinions and saying goodbye to woody once and for all was perfect upon reflection
They showed up by happenstance, what does that mean like did he not like it at first? Is that what he's saying?
Now that I look back on it, it's nice that woody was able to say goodbye to his lifelong friends
Mm-hmm
Well, I didn't catch that the first time I was minimizing their roles opened up room for new interesting characters who actually had stories
And we got none of them
New interesting characters who had stories to be told what even was bow peep story
She just tells you what she's been up to and she carries on doing so
Oh, that's a whole other can of worms. They actually
Into bow peeps backstory in this movie that much, but they wait until the movie
Uh, like like they wait until the movie's out on disney plus I think to release the short
Life which then takes place after toy story for and then we see that
Oh woody apparently didn't understand what bow had gone through until after he decides
Like he doesn't understand why she is a lost toy
Until after he makes the decision to become one himself in leaving his his friends and his kids. See that's that's terrible
Like that should have been the fucking movie. But um the also yes, it should have been
But the other part is just like he's it's like what what is bow peeps thing in this film?
She's like she doesn't go on a journey
She's just like person who helps out woody until at the end woody's like i'll hang out with you and she's like, yeah, okay
Remember that bit where like when you first see bow, right?
And what he's talking to uh to like that little
toy that gets eaten by the cat later on and he's like he's talking about how uh
What was the reason why andy's sister molly was able to sleep at night?
You know and you get this look on on bow's face
like she she sort of
Being a kid and and being, you know loved and everything and when I first watched the movie
I thought that this was going to set up bow returning to wanting to to be
Loved by a kid
But then they didn't and they did the opposite
the the
They did the the arc that made
so
that's
That's great
Also, yeah, james is actually that's right bow peep isn't a new character, but I mean she may as well be
Yeah, she's a new person like
There's she wears her face
And speaks in her language. You can't even say she wears a dress like nope
Yeah, I was about to be like but no she doesn't
They changed her and then I guess what else we go for do it's like gabby gabby like oh gabby gabby
Oh, don't even get me started. Oh, no, we haven't even started
We still got topics to come like gabby and buzz. They're on their way. Yep
You know the likes of four key giggle mcdimples which one was giggle mcdimples. No giggle mcdimples didn't do shit
She was the cut
Who's the tiny little thing that got swallowed? Yeah. Oh, yeah. She did worthless
She got ate by the cat. What was the story for the tube that out immediately after the duck in the bay?
What was the whole thing?
They were a prize. Yeah, they were a carnival game prize
Okay
Ducky bunny gabby gabby juke kaboom who all just great ducky and bunny were worth it. They shouldn't have been in the film
no
Like my brother horned
Kaboom backstory was just like oh, I guess we're learning about your stop story now
My brother who who agrees with the us on like buzz and woody and that stuff
Funny, but he likes key and peel a lot and it's like I mean, I like key and peel too, but man I
Outside of they're worthless in this
outside of like
They're like attacking the grandmother the first time that they make that joke not the second or third times
But the the scene as well where they reveal how
Key to the china cabinet. Like those are the two jokes that work, you know, sort of
but I just found myself irritated by them the whole way through I I won't give them credit for the second one because
That could have been anybody there was nothing
That needed to have them do that that could have been any character and it would have worked perfectly
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I I can I can see that
Sorry to clarify because there's a conversation going on about it. So
She is still porcelain
It's her clothing that was supposed to be like stuck to her a part of her that was here
Has now been transferred into cloth and it's removable and changeable. So
she herself
is quote unquote porcelain, I don't even really know to be honest with you because like
You know, they could change whatever they wanted at any time
The the point is that you take bow peep from toy story one and two
How do you make it so that she can be an action star?
It's like well, you gotta lose the fucking dress for one
And and the fact that she's stiff you got to get rid of both of those things
And they just do and they kind of just hope you forgot that that was how it was
And they do that by having the intro of toy story four
She looks like she does in the originals, but her dress is clearly cloth
Like and it's flowing and it's like, huh. I don't remember it being like that
This is
What she looks like
In her animation was certainly very stiff
Yes, well, yeah, she used to waddle didn't she
Would agree. Yep. Oh my god. Oh my god. That's what she looked like
Yeah, she's very stiff
About to say I think even her like her what she's wearing on her head is porcelain, right? I mean look at that
She's stiff and that's why that's why she gives woody a stiffy
Oh
She gives woody a woody that's that's inappropriate. This is a children. You guys know that woody is uh, you're right. Well
He's doing some with his hands by the last screenshot
If they if they made a a toy story movie they could still have the main characters be named
A joke was cut off i'm sorry
Yeah, well i'm just saying that the the main characters of a sex toy story movie could still be woody and buzz
Oh, no, I get it
Oh, hey, there you go. That's an easy comparison
We bought it in the first one
So I guess it's not it's not the porcelain attached to her
Like this is take it off
This is like an actual toy, but it still illustrates the point of what they did to change who
Like that and that a very clearly fucking different
But it's like yeah, it's not even just like a matter of improved graph
They absolutely changed the design
and the first one
The in the first one she looks like a toy that's alive and the second one she looks like an actual
Kind of a person. Yeah
Like they try like she's supposed to be a very she's not a toy
She doesn't look nor she I can't believe she's a toy in toy story four. She's too human
in her appearance and
Like I never forget that woody and buzz buzz are toys
But it hurt they made her realistic in a strange way
I mean the outright contradicted her design man
Should have made jesse the character not by the way we had jesse for all this
By the way
Time code are you at i'm at uh 6 36?
6 35 so it's close enough
Okay
They were absolutely hilarious. Like they completely filled in for having mr potato head in my opinion
He's already everyone's favorite no, he's not
Forky's everyone's favorite character. What do you mean?
Oh
I hated to porky
Yeah
Again, I don't have the problem
That you can take inanimate materials and make something animated with it
You know because like like that's how the toys would have to work in like in the first
My problem is he's just such a shitty character like his
How will we talk about the fact that forky's existential crisis has resolved 15 minutes into actually maybe it's?
It's not even a crisis he's perfectly content with it he it's not a crisis it's a very yeah like
He aggressively pursues this goal and accepts it as his purpose. It's a very simple
He feels he is trash. He belongs in the trash woody tells him that
One man's trash is another man's treasure sort of thing and bonnie's
hit his
He's bonnie's trash trash. Therefore. He needs to get to bonnie
That's like the simplest fucking formula that convinces him out of this
What seems to be an entrenched position?
Yeah, because if he's bonnie's trash, so is all the trash. He was trying to get to in her room
What that's what happens to bonnie's trash it gets thrown away
That's what he wants. Yeah. Well, that's what he says, right?
He's like you're supposed to use a spork and then he throw it away like he wants to be
I mean
You know what happens to trash right forky? You know what you know where it goes
What's odd do is that he doesn't pursue the goal of being used to eat things
He has already been like he's already assumed that he has been used for that purpose
And he must now be thrown in the trash even though he hasn't done the first thing
Maybe he was and that's why it was in the trash some some persons left over corona fork, you know, they're just like gonna put that in
Who knows?
Maybe I hope bonnie gets corona. Oh, no
I
Guess this guy is so simple that if a character makes silly noises
It's the best character now
Like baby yoda's my favorite character is like what is baby yoda's character to tell me?
Yeah, you'll be the the height of one-dimensional. It's like it's a baby
So it's just you know
It's cute. You know what forky is for the rest of the movie after the end of the first act. He's a
Plot device he's absolutely that's all he is. He's a what a plot device a mcguffin
Yeah, he gets held hostage
Whole movie turns into we have to rescue for
But we don't care about forky. I don't care about forky at least
yeah, forky is apparently just like okay, he's so short sighted and simple minded that I feel like
You could just he could be anywhere and be happy and content
I have a question if you removed all the things
Forky to make him sentient
Like he took off the eyes and the mouth and the eyebrow and the arms and then the popsicle feet and it was just a
That killed him or is he still sentient?
Well
We have things. Well, you have a pair of legs stuck to a fishing rod and that's alive thinking here and
That's the thing
We're kind of talking about it earlier. I don't if I was gonna immersive fully
Youth and eyes forky in his sleep. I don't know how I would make a clean kill shot. Well
You know, it's really horrifying. I know we shouldn't be doing this
But let's just say you terminate a two-style drop forky into lava slowly and he's like
It's just like going further up and up and up and you're waiting for the moment where it just dies
But it just stops, you know, like I want how much of you has to be funny because his little popsicle feet
Would catch fire before it even touched
Oh, I hate this character
Yeah, I'm not i'm not a fan of forky i'm gonna be honest i'm not a fan of forky
Yeah, he's not everyone's favorite character is shamus. Someone in the chat said rag snap him in half
It's like we literally have bisected characters
And he said peace with it because he's like hey don't fuck with cats, you know
It's so weird. He's all just relaxed. He's like yeah
Terrifying it's like it's like a deleted scene where he's just he's walking around he sees the cat and he's like hey cat and the
Cat just fucking rips him in half and the cat's like looking at the bottom half scratching it around and moving it while the the top half
is slowly crawling away while crying like
And like the cat sees him because no no, please please
Like, you know some oda picks him up
As if the character knows it's just a side character and someone else's story and it doesn't even matter
Imagine if bullseye had fucking lost his back legs
Yeah, he's just a tripod it would be horrifying. Yeah, like it's scooting around it'd be terrible, but nah, it's cool
But they're just like, oh no, don't worry about it. Just don't even think about it. Ha ha ha he got recently
This is kind of what like for us defines the difference between like kid and adult content, right?
it's it's not specifically like any
you know, just the presence of
someone get it it's like
Making them think about this stuff. It's like maybe avoid it. Maybe we don't go anywhere near that stuff
We stay the nice stuffs like someone's like that would have age rating
Yeah, we know but they chose to have this bisected zebra here
You just think about it for five seconds any kid can I mean, this is why there's terror like the content that terrifies children
Because a lot of it sometimes the makers are like, oh, yeah, that is kind of terrifying
Like I don't know how it happened. We returned to ours. I don't know how someone approved of that being a children's movie
I don't I don't see
In what willed but it happens and this is you know, it's a slippery slope man
You start you start with making your toys sentient
Then you blow them up and rip them in half and maintain that they're still alive
This is that we're stepping closer and closer to horrifying territory. Just saying
We'll make it okay
I love giggle mcdimples and kyana re do kaboom, but
That was what they wanted he's pulled the gabby gabby card
Oh
Oh, are we ready? Yeah, let's do it. Gabby Gabby's horrible
You're fucking Gabby Gabby
So no, don't fuck Gabby Gabby remove her from the gene pool. Fuck her
Remove Gabby Gabby from the gene pool. We cannot have more guys. I don't think toys can have kids. You're right
Well, I mean what do you want so
I
Don't know
I
Did worse than a ripped and a half zebra
Well, it's the fact that it's alive and it doesn't care when that yeah, I was gonna say
What do you mean? Toy story one portrays it as a bad thing?
That's kind of the point. It's like don't abuse the toys. That's the point but in this one it's like, yeah. Well, i'm in half
Yay, hey, you know i'm only a horse. I don't need my legs
Another thing, you know i'm not saying toy story didn't didn't raise some questions here and there and stuff
It's just that this one is making it very confusing as to
What existence it gave the impression that like do you remember when they're pulling his voice box out of it when they're ripping it out?
Yes
Steering
That's not good
I was I remember when I was first watching I was kind of concerned. I was like, can you still speak without that?
Like is that how does that work?
You know like because they got weird logic for for toys, right? Like for example, like you can kill them by destroying their braids
You'd be like their braids
Their brain. Yeah, they don't have brains. I don't know what you're talking about
So like take it out his voice box
You'd think like the logic could be that he can't speak after that
And so i'm just picturing like as they're pulling
On the string while he's trying to keep a hold of the the rope or whatever
And like as they're tearing it and he's screaming but it starts to like distort and gargle because he's like getting his lungs pulled out
I'm just like but he can speak without the voice. Yeah. No, I know i'm saying that they could have got that direction
But i'm fucking hoping yeah, they could
They wouldn't because then no character with a voice box could speak which is vast vast majority of toys, you know a better silent
Yeah, it's like the um
they try removing his
Forky hostage and they're trying to use him to extort like woody
Out of his voice box and that's after they already try to
Woody prisoner and woody escapes, but forky doesn't escape and then
Uh after they go on this, uh rescue attempt of forky that goes wrong
Reeves is a dumbass and
Uh, we just had to have kiana reeves and he uh chickens out the last second before making that jump
You know
Really quick recollection of his past that he's telling aloud again so that we know that he could
Fail at this sort of but then not fail at the end
Mm-hmm. So i've got some got some incredible two hate in the chat. I approve thumbs up
Yeah, they crammed in these they're they've crammed in a lot of characters and if they're gonna cram in characters be at once
I give a shit about
Yeah
Right off the bat they're dicks to buzz when they know damn well buzz did not go to the human and request to be placed up
there
Like these are assholes. Why should I care about them in their well-being?
And as you point out would it be the shit out of buzz woody's just static they're like hey
Don't do that
Yeah, oh look strange toys are assaulting my friend who will be there for me until infinity and beyond. I don't care
Hey, don't be this is why you shouldn't think about the mechanics of toy stories
Tour insists that you do
Um, um, so yeah, we kind of we're supposed to come with gabby gabby right why she's terrible. Yeah, so so so after this
Right guy and everyone leaves woody including buzz
What he goes back into the antique store and gabby gabby approaches him and he starts
Really manipulative speech about all these memories that woody has of andy that he passes on to her from
And she's like, you know, it's it's uh, you know the most
Um, what what did she say molar? It's like
For a toy to do is to bring joy to a child
And she's all like I want that chance, but I can't because of my voice box. So if you just
I can do that and then um
Woody's like just let me have forky and then i'll do it. It's like instead of
Giving up forky realizing, you know what i'm being a bit a bit of a bitch
Especially since as woody's trying to escape i'm like tugging at his voice box
Taking him to rip and we're like, you know
Reaching into him and taking out some of his stuffing during the rescue sequence
Instead of just like well, they could have done is just she releases forky out of out of like guilt and then forky prevents woody
From leaving he's like no, no, we need to help her then woody can be like what?
Then you can like explain what he knows and you know, that's your entry way into into moving on but instead
There is actually because you're right. There's no moment where it's anything. It's still an exchange
It's not anything other than that. She's just added a sob story
Like you can have forky exchange for a body part and he's like, okay
And then next time it's the exact same thing, but she said hey, I really want it though. It's like oh
Yeah, she adds the sob story, uh without any apology for
her and she uh
You know, basically instead of just giving up forky willingly. She holds him
hostage still until
It says, okay, just let him go and then i'll do it
It's like it's a quid pro quo thing. Not a hey, here you go. But also listen, please hear me out here
about this
And I mean that could have worked as well. It's like
But no they they have her
Just act entitled and then she finally gets what she wants
She gets away with it like the first female villain of toy story and oh, she's not a villain
She's actually just misunderstood
She's she's not that bad which is not something they afford to said to lotso or to stinky Pete
All have a sob story
Yeah
She doesn't just get away with it. She's rewarded like she she gets exactly what she wanted in the end
It's like it it treated like a good hand did it on a platter like the film is like hey
You get to have this now this exact thing you want
I hope that kid the pics are up like fucking loses interest by the next day
Okay
Guys by the way, sorry, I need to address this chat. Listen, I get it. My mic keeps cutting out. I can't control it
My internet sucks. I want to change my ISP. Do you think that I can change my eyes?
Shut the fuck up about my mic not working. I get it
I get it. I fucking get it. Okay. I'm sorry that my internet sucks
I'm sorry that I can't change my internet service provider right fucking now, but it's a very complicated process. Okay
Then I promise I will I promise that I will not appear on efap ever again until I get my ip
Changed if you just stop talking
about the
I'll I'll I'll get it. I get it parts there
So you're ranting and you're also cutting out a little bit on our own so
Yeah, I I just watched the scene in a
movie where woody and bonnie or gabby is talking to him and
It's so obviously emotionally manipulative
And he's just like, okay. It's gonna be porky
I mean you can interpret that scene as him being like I literally don't give a fuck just give me four key
At this point
It's not my mic. It's my ist. My connection sucks. It's
It's not my mic. Oh my god, man. Your mic is shit. Hey, can people in check you let? Oh
No, if his mic is not working just let him know
Yeah, yeah, just let me know. I haven't had I have a message
People tagging me people sending me it's important. Yeah, your mic is not working
Yeah, yeah, it's really like I I don't know guys, you know what? You're right. Actually. I didn't know I have
Entire
Anatism because my internet sucks
Um bs the point is that she's an awful
Person and the the film gives her redemption and rewards for no reason seemingly
She even gets to like
Exactly what she personally wants to do she achieves that thanks to woody that doesn't even work and then the universe hands her and out
Really annoying
I think
You need to go back and find lozzo and stinky peat and fix their lives now because they did it for her
Imagine that for lozzo like lozzo is going to like throw them into like the fiery abyss of death and they find him
They're like hey
Let's let's bring you back to your kid and then like she's lost the other lozzo and then she just comes
They're reunited. It's like oh, wow happy ending. Happy ending for lozzo
That's what gabby gabby got
Because you see up until now the toy story films have been very good when it comes to producing villains
They're never just bad for the sake of being bad and you can usually understand their motivation. You've got sit
Emperor zerg's motivation
I don't know if that counts as a full movie villain, but uh, I think he's bad for the sake of being bad
Bad for the sake of being bad. Yeah, it's just it's like it's like buzz or it's just this just comes in since motivation for being bad
Abusive abusive. Yeah, that's what a lot of people theorize about him
theorize
There's a lot of hints in the movie
It's never directly addressed
But like there's a lot of hints that his dad is like an alcoholic or someone who's like low down and is possibly abusive
like verbally or physically so
I wonder if he's gonna say anything about that and you can usually understand their motivation
You've got sit who at the end of the day is just a misunderstood kid whose parents don't love him and doesn't realize what he's doing
Is wrong. He also gets a bomb delivered to his house. So
So if he's not a firework
Yeah, it's firework. It's not a bomb
Does his mom not love him
Um
Make some pop tarts
There isn't anything in the first toy story that
Indicates that's the case. Uh, I think like
Like so there's one can try this in toy store when I forgot to bring up
So, you know that um that scene when buzz
Uh tries to fly and he drops and he loses an arm
Oh, yeah, um what prompts him to do that is he sees like so he's trying to run away from sid's dog scud
He gets into this room. I presume it's sid's
Possibly mother who has passed out in this chair like watching tv. Yeah
And the ad plays it's like oh wow he enters the room just as the ads
And that was a funny little uh detail that I thought about
Once sid's parents were were brought up, but no there's nothing in the movie that
Sid's parents don't like him
His sister doesn't like him for obvious reasons
but
His parents seem like
Like we only hear her his parents took him to pizza planet
But he let him go so
He's better off than fucking addy is look at how reckless his bub is. You know, we've established that very clearly now
Yeah
What's a two-year-old like shot right in the front seat?
um
but yeah, uh the
I guess
uh, it's it's weird to
Establish i'm curious where you're going with this like establishing that they're all misunderstood or they're old
You know, there's reasons for them all being the way they are, but she's the only one that gets rescued
I wonder if he's gonna be like
Someone said his name is sid because he survived sid's
Wait a second. How do you survive sudden infant death syndrome?
Well
You can survive
I mean I would I would I thought that was only I would expect that to be a thing in toy story four
Give me a second
Can you survive?
Sudden death
Okay, so you want to send your search history all infants presenting with the parent sid's died
Yeah, oh
Oh, fuck
Okay
Uh, someone said, uh, can you stop sid's while it's happening?
No
I figure that's why the cold is sudden death
Yeah
Things work in america
He was just a toy that no one wanted and when he finally got his chance to be appreciated
He was going to do whatever he could to make
Well in fairness dead baby jokes are uh, just like, you know dead babies. They never get old
Nailed it
That happened
And not so who once loved a kid until one day she lost and replaced him causing him to think toys are disposable
I mean nothing to their owners now since the last two were both twist villains
I was kind of I don't know how every toy doesn't know this obvious fact
Yeah
Like this is sort of another problem with toys if their value is about making kids happy is the fact that
They are seen as products. They are seen as inanimate objects who don't actually have feelings and stuff. Um, and a lot of kids are
Fully aware that their their toys are not real
So toys must like almost intrinsically understand
That they will be replaced
And if if anything that's part of their journey is to be replaced and then move on to the next kid
What I don't know it just seems like this is something every toy should he was going to yeah, definitely
Whatever he could to make sure that happened and not so who once loved a kid until one day
She lost and replaced him causing him to think toys are disposable. I mean she lost him
Now since the last two were both disposable is a weird way to say it if she lost
Because bear with me. I haven't
I haven't seen toy story three
But um if she lost him and replaced him she only replaced him because
She lost him
Yeah, like it's not quite he was safe
And at a picnic because she fell asleep and her parents just didn't like bring her toys with them to the car
And then by the time that they made the trek home
Or they had found that she yeah had gotten a new latso to replace the the old one that she lost
So did she even did she even know it was a new one
Um, I mean that's not really oh, that's not confirmed one way or another
I assume that's what they were going for was the whole like
You know, you replace the kids goldfish you're you do that sort of logic where kids don't
Have to find out and then the the haunting realization that you're replaceable as a toy
But again, it's like but you've literally come off an assembly line
Yeah, how do I I guess I just don't know how toys couldn't know this
Yeah, you think that this is just a this point
I'm expecting toy story four to go in the same direction
But no gabby gabby was almost instantly introduced as the antagonist as she was eyeing up woody's voice box right from the start
With her plan to steal it. So from that moment you think the film is going to follow a pretty simple structure
She's going to try and steal the voice box. But yeah, I thought she would be I didn't think that they would pull
Yeah, I could have never predicted the film would be terrible enough to do what it did with her
Well, hang on. So anna anna points out that um lots of owner cried
They show them i'm giving her the
Gee, I wonder how bonnie is going to react if uh, if she ever notices that woody's missing
No, no, no because she doesn't like woody. Remember that's just how that works. She doesn't like woody now
You're right people who've watched this movie and enjoy it have concluded that she doesn't like woody. She's fine
Yeah, he needs to move on from for me. That's that doesn't matter. You should have known fucking shot where she's playing with him
But no, that's a deleted scene
Then she get what's coming to her but as the story goes on there is a twist and she's revealed not to be the villain
After all, no, she's still a villain
She's absolutely a villain
Just because everyone's okay with her villainy. That doesn't mean she's not a villain anymore
She's trying to take someone's body part that she holds someone hostage
You can't say I forgive you hitler and all of a sudden he's not a villain anymore. It's like
It's like the inversion of uh
Um beating up the dawn it's like instead of a hero acting like a
And then being treated like here. It's like it's a villain acting like a villain and
Then suddenly being treated as a victim. Well, you know, it's like like without going to google or anything
It's just how typically we understand villains to be they have what you would consider to be
Devious intentions or goals and they will try to complete them at the cost to anyone else like they don't care
Like they don't care. They just they want to get their thing like batwoman is a twist not a hero
She she she's
Also who came up with this phrase a twist not a villain with all the dashes in there
That a five-year-old think of this
Is this actually on google or did he just like
Edit this i'm gonna check. I mean if it's up there with the rest of his humor, then it could be either
a twist
Not a villain
villain
Uh
Villains
A twist not a uh, let me do it with all the high the dashes twist not a
Villain
What's she not I have no idea where he got this from
Um
Because i'm i'm typing this in verbatim a twist dash not dash a dash villain let him have his
Geez
Let's say did he actually edit that for the sake of a joke or for the sake of his point?
Oh my god, I when I said a five-year-old thought of it, I didn't think like shamus, but it kind of checks out. Um, that's what you're looking at
Um
Uh
I am putting this in verbatim into google and it's not bringing me this up. I think he made this up
he he
He's treating this like it's an actual thing like a phrase a twist not a villain
The fucking what is that? What is that?
variant spelling twist
All right
Compelling villain a long twist
Also, sever snape is a shitty example of this because he's actually not a villain you just think he is that's gabby is a villain
well
Well, doesn't that don't you mean the you you're saying that server snape is a good example of a twist not a villain
But she's a terrible example because she well
Yeah, like he does if whichever because that's the first time for me hearing this phrase because he made it up
But a twist not a villain if it's you think this person's the villain, but they're not
Then that would apply to savor a snake
But for gabby, she's not a twist not a villain. What a strange sentence
She is a villain and everyone's just okay with that. They they they essentially go
Fine, we'll do what you want
Yeah, we're around to see her be adopted for the second time
Like it's like it's the baby taking their first steps or something
No, this person kidnapped your friend and would have murdered you if they could have
Yeah, what you have to do why don't you take your voice box by force?
This is actually important because like the the snake example kind of nails this snapes actions are
Recontextualized like the reason he does everything that looks bad is for good reason and you'd be like, well, that's the same for gabby
Right. She this whole time you thought he was gonna she was gonna pilfer his fucking voice box
When in reality, she just wants to pilfer his voice box
You're like, okay, that doesn't help anything. Just like yeah, but she's alone. Yeah, she's lonely. He's like, oh
Okay, there's a there's a there's a relevant bro open nine nine quote. It's a cool motive still murdered
So
I don't think there's a point in this film in toy story four where she's like remorseful about anything
She's done or admits that what she did was bad
Also, I guess she's just happy though what he eventually agrees right like she doesn't
Yeah, she doesn't when she goes to him
She doesn't like say what I did was wrong and i'm terrible and I shouldn't have done it
She just explains why she did it
She just she just throws all of those memories that what he had of andy in his face
basically
To butter him up. She also says how he made bonnie happy too
Mm-hmm twist neta villain is the villain also
Now that I think about it. She doesn't give a fuck about her henchmen. No, she's just like deuces i'm out
Well, I mean I didn't want to ask this question, but I was like why we're all of the the marionette dolls because they were simps
Yeah, like were they just they just they just follow your commands. I guess. Okay, they don't like their own toys. I don't know
They're all don't work together. Oh, they're a part of the doll collective. She's like fuck y'all
I'm out of here. Enjoy your cabinet for x years because no one's gonna buy you
Yeah, what are they gonna do without it? Because we're like, well, we did a new lead at forky. Well, everyone bent to 40
I was like, we're all identical. So I don't even know what the point of voting is
We don't know if they want to leave or not
He said this is the first toy story film without a villain
What
She wants to perform illegal operations to steal his organs
Nearly tears the fucking thing out of him
by force
And why because she wants someone to like her she is like peak villain
Um
Like this is such an entitled character wanting to take something that's not
Because she's sad like this is uh, it's like a fucking
It's almost analogous to like an incel trying to rape someone
She's a badman I do she's a very bad person
how
This person is
Stupid or incredibly naive. This is this is what happens to people that watch toy story four without their critical thinking abilities engaged
You know, this is the reverse. Oh this is po dameron
He's a bad guy in tlj. It's like no, he's clearly not if you look at the film
It's like she's clearly a good guy. This film is like no, she's clearly not
Just watch the fucking film. I don't understand
Yeah
No, this this this movie
Honestly, I didn't see it. No, so
This meme comes to mind that i've seen before about stephen universe the hitler one
But i'm like, but at least hitler it hypothetically
Said he was sorry, which is more than gabby does. Yeah. Gabby doesn't say. Sorry
Gabby's like for what I remember. Anyway, I would have to really
Comb through that script, you know
Oh, man, like I know she doesn't say that she's like like here's what happens. She gets rejected by harmony, right?
She gets thrown in the ball
Scene because oh you get what you fucking deserve
And then and then woody walks up to her and she's like curl up in a ball and she's like you can have your
Voice punch back if you want. Oh, oh now now you're okay. Now you're you're
But she's not even apologetic. She's like, oh, I didn't get what I want. So never mind
You can have a bag if you want I extorted from you
She is kindly giving she is
Very generous in returning what is essentially stolen property. It's funny that she keeps it
Ultimately
Like I want it back
Also, why didn't woody ever explain to him, you know, like 95 percent of my I want to say friend my friends
Quote unquote they're totally silent and they're loved you you don't need a voice
Why wasn't it a lesson about you're special the way you are or you don't have to upgrade yourself to me
I agree. I don't see why she's other people why she needs the voice box
Why didn't she try to get the girl's attention without just just don't have a voice box. You need one someone made it
someone said
Steven universe. No, I'm I know never did I do that do what sorry? Yes
I was making fun. I was making fun of a I was referencing a meme that makes fun of steven universe
Can you put that meme up on on screen? Oh, I did. Uh, well for a bit
I think that you're allowed to make fun of steven universe the fans hate it now, right because the last season or my
Like people people aren't gonna rip into you for ripping on that as far as i'm aware these days
No maulery has nothing to do with avatar being a very well beloved show. I mean I was thinking about godzilla, but
I was thinking about I I don't know
animal porn
Why will you always think about that?
Okay, steven universe. I don't care about the show, but i'm aware of the meme and the controversy in the show
So I was like this reminds me of this meme
Except it's okay
Except it's worse if gabby's worse
Without a villain all she wanted was to be loved and played with and woody realized
He's after all his time. Oh hitler wanted to do is make a stronger more profitable germany
How does this not? How does this not apply to stinky pete and uh lot so
All the wrong ones you can easily broadly define their motivation in a positive way
This is this is shamus saying that the ends
That's right evan go ahead and say what you want to say. Yeah, you're gone
Well, this is evan. Sorry. This is shamus essentially saying that the ends justify the means
Yeah, she just wanted to be loved
Okay, then there's no recontextualizing anything it's literally just you were murdering people. Oh, but you needed the to eat them
Like what just not a good thing
What stinky pete did was okay. He just wanted to be
Immortalized or he wanted to be
Whatever he could do it unless they have the full package, right? Yeah, there you go. That's pretty altruistic
Yeah, what a good guy want to be evil
He was just taking out his pent-up frustrations brought about by familial strife on what he believed was inanimate objects
Also didn't want to be evil he just wanted to get back to his own
Uh, the wicker man says, okay
But she is not worse than genocidal fascists. Yeah. No, we're not saying that she is we're just using
Oh my god, if you said that in chat, you should keep hearing her
Oh my goodness, once again, everything you say is 100 literal, right? Oh my goodness
At least hitless would have said sorry the hypothetical making gabby absolutely worse than hitler in these insane hypotheticals based on memes from tv shows
Okay, I can't believe I have to say this
I want you to understand. I don't think that gabby gabby is worse than the hitler
Right
Just so we're very clear on this. I don't know what gabby's
Body count is
Yes, it's not that high
All right
The point was that at least hitler in this crazy scenario
Apologies, sorry for it and apologizes which at least implies some level of recognition that he did a bad
Meanwhile gabby gabby is rewarded
She is rewarded for evilness
That's exactly what she wants at the end of the day. She doesn't even say she's sorry. It's just oh my goodness
Some of you got oh
Of course she does get
What a scene I get kills
Let me reload the page
If you crawl back like 30 seconds
I got you
Without a villain all she wanted was to be loved and played with and woody realizes after all his time
So actually gives up his voice box so gabby gabby can have a chance to live hers as well
Which of course she does get to in the end and what is seen I get
Evan hoda chills thinking about that shitty fucking character
I mean it's surprising to me that he's so positive about that scene because basically they're like let's all leave
Okay. Oh look a random child gabby go
Okay, it all works out. Whoo. It's
Incredibly shoehorned. It's just like suddenly there's this you're like, oh
Exactly what she needs
They all take a moment
Do you remember when the other toys who've been working this whole film to try to rescue woody are like
Currently getting their own to put in prison potentially
Trying to get them back and you got these people being like, oh, you know, we found gabby a piss and we found the villain
Yeah, it's like no, no guys. I'll be there in a second
I know you've been trying really hard to rescue me. I want to see if the villain is all is gets her catharsis
I want to see if she turns out. Okay. I need to know that the person who kidnapped us and wanted to kill us is okay
Oh my goodness and who is this moron?
Rags rags he apologizes he says I apologize for being a dumb
He does he does. Yes
Considering how different that scene is you wouldn't be getting that scene in any of the other toy story films
It's not revolving around any of the correct
Or is it a kid we've ever met before?
But it shares the message of the film and maybe the entire series about the power of toys and how they can help kids
Even in the darkest times in the best possible way
Which is so I don't know what woody abandoning his owner who played with him yesterday
I don't I don't see how that's the best possible way for him
To make her happy. Yeah
Like you're gonna have to you're gonna have to really and I mean really try your damn hardest to reason
through that with us
Because that's insane
Quite for me toy story four just
Works special. Thank you to that kyle mattson amanda for sponsoring me on patreon. It's thanks suckers
It's an honest take of the film from his perspective i'm sure
Yeah, but listen our takes we're all wrong because all critics
We're all wrong. Don't you know was this made first or second of the two? This was the fit
We'll see what happened. I think this is my theory is that he made a vid
Being like yo good film and then he realized a lot of people were like not really though
And so he made one being like hey
It is though
Um, yeah, it's like but like almost everything that you said was just flat out wrong
And yeah, the only thing I really want to mention before we go on to his next one is uh buzz
He was ruined in this movie and the quick vision is
To woody's having like a introspection moment and he talks to buzz about the idea of your inner voice your conscience
and for some reason buzz interprets this as
Like his voice box the thing that says, you know buzz light you to the rescue is now
Buzz light is like inner voice telling him what he needs to do and he spends the entire film
Listening to his voice box in order to do anything
And the worst of it being it decides that he should abandon woody and he just agrees
because in the first toy story when he sees the ad playing on the television
Of the kid pressing the button on the chest says buzz light you to the rescue
And then buzz presses the same button and it says the same thing
It's like he he has that existential crisis moment where he's like, oh shit
I like actually am a toy and he accepts that before
Desperately trying to prove to himself that he's not you know, yeah, they just make him a donut
Yeah that now that exact same thing
That he knows that he's a product
He's watching a commercial of him as a product
now that thing is
his inner voice
That is insane
Um
And yeah, he spends the movie
Idiotically getting himself into those situations based on whatever his fucking box says and one of the worst ones is he's desperately looking for woody
And he's just looking around and he hits the fucking button and it says quick
Look up to the skies or something like that and he looks up and he sees what would be the
Extremely unlikely scenario that he catches woody jumping but over a gap
Where if he could have missed it in a split second and it's just like insane contrivance
That is because his inner voice told him to
That's why you're fucking embarrassed in this film and it really sucks because he's he's so much better than this
Yes, buzz lightyear was my favorite character and uh, it was really painful watching
What you reduced to this
Anyway
Okay
This will be him responding to criticisms of the movie of which we provided many
So hopefully this will account for hours. How about it? What's in the title of the video?
By the way, we finally got to it guys. We did it
Yay, it only took us what six hours five and a half. Yeah, just hooray
In this video is going to get called things such as toxic ignorant bias. Maybe even on willing toxic. I don't want to go
I mean it is ignorant. You're just ignorant of the facts of the film in the scenes in the dialogue
I'm willing to accept their opinions other than your own. I think that gets levied at literally every person with an opinion
Yeah
It does certainly seem to be biased. I mean there's a buzz light year on your fucking bed. Are you eight?
But you could you could go that can go both ways, right?
I'll buy us toward the older ones makes us fucking despise the new one and for some reason it works in reverse for him
I I mean
How is he saying something with a close-up and they'd all be right
Toy Story 4 was as close as you can get to having a perfect wait, why are we at 14 seconds?
Whoa, he just said it's as close as you can get to a perfect movie in this day and age. No
Why this is we're like he's being established on his old video man. He did. Oh, we're on a new video
Yeah
Oh
Okay, all right, all right, let's go back to the I seriously was like super confused
I thought the thing had played but we're at a different video
How did you see the uh the comments and read them out if they're not on the same video?
Well, because I thought it was the end of the last video
He's wearing a different shirt
I know so
People could change shirts. He changed it at the very end of the video just for his patreon outlet. I mean
Wait, no, hang on ranks. How could you possibly thought it would have
It would have gone scanned all the way back to the beginning. So
Because i've done that by accident where i've pre I instead of pressing play or pause I accidentally
All of his previous video, why would there be new video when restart?
No, I was I must have been looking at something that you're dragging this longer than it needs to be and now you're making me
Look stupid. I don't know. I don't know what you mean
I am not gonna i'm not i'm not gonna be a not a twist villain here
All right
Because here I will send you a picture of it right now where I gotta change the setting to where it shows the cursor
So the correct the correct video is playing for you. Yeah
Yeah
Yes, I am i'm on 16 seconds of the new video I just thought it was an old video
I just want you to hear him say what he just said her opinions other than your own
And they'd all be right toy story 4 was as close as you can get to having a perfect movie in this day and age
Given how often we see a concern
Oh, okay. So this guy is retarded. I mean
It's just funny because like it's just oh it was one of the
Whoa
Say like you didn't go into detail on this man. If you think this movie is nearly perfect
It's like your other video wasn't like that. So
I I guess no, um
I mean
I don't know. Four of the rings is about as close as you can get to a perfect movie in the same age
Although maybe that doesn't count
18 years ago
It's the kind of color i'm just like, all right, then let's move on
So hyperbolic qualify as I was just like
Considerably large split between critics and audiences
It's a refreshing change of pace to finally have a film that everyone likes unfortunate. No, not everyone likes
Why are you judging it from that too? Like come on?
Though being liked by everyone doesn't work in this world
We can't be having that now can we and therefore toy story 4 has gathered its fair share of haters because I mean don't you know
Uh, everyone likes it but it has for sure a framing of it
Obnoxious 10 year old who's got whose whose confidence far outstrips his competence
The framing what if I had said like it's much better when there's a there's a discussion to be had about a film
5050 is what we're looking for. Okay, but then you know, you have to have movies that are loved by everybody
And it's just this one seriously has its fucking what's like a disparaging word for loving it like obsessed people or
This one has its simps, I guess on this one. This one has its fucking whores
Oh my god
it has like uh people who are
You know their shills for it. Like I don't know because like I just you know haters. It's like oh i'm hating am I?
Because you know
I am hating this film because of how terrible it is
But like saying something like this film has its lovers
It's like oh that just sounds that just sounds neutral but saying a film has its haters makes them sound unreasonable
I guess connotations are a thing. It's just it just bugs me. I'm just like, yeah, okay frame it that way fine. I'm a hater
I want you to think of all the amazing movies that did come out last year never thought i'd say that but
Toy story four is as close to a perfect film as you can get
Like are you fucking kidding me? Oh, yeah, of course. I should have said this you say this film has its disnoids
Like that's this that's the way you put that across shit. I mean, I guess people are really into
Toy story like
Okay, they're just really into garbage. I was gonna say like getting into toy story should kind of push you away from this film
Or at least yeah, you know the people who care the most about toy story should be the ones who hate this one the most
Apologist mauler not the the closest thing to the opposite of hater is apologist as well
Yeah, I think that makes sense. Give him up says which by the way, if that's a little rascals reference
You're awesome. The wild man from bordio is uh, fucking hilarious
Oh my god, so just want to shout no hating popular things makes you a more interesting person
It's like a scientific fact like on a serious note. Okay in reverse liking things doesn't make you interesting either
Yeah, we did it it's not it's not better just because it's positive about it and wrong
I
Still haven't seen one decent criticism or good reason for someone not liking the film other than people commenting I
Um, he's not seen one like you've not seen one
There's no way he would have seen the buzz criticism and the buzz criticism is like the easiest to understand and agree with
Um, I actually there is a so I have
A collection of screenshots that i'll be sending into this
Uh, uh chat at some point mauler. Oh my god. Um once we go through him
No, they're
They're their tweets replying to something that he sent out
and
Um, but we'll wait until we get to that portion of the video, I guess
Yeah, okay
I feel like this one will go quicker because we've we've basically gone through most of what's wrong with toy story 4 now
We'll see depends on what he says. Hey tips
My mission today is to find one and where better to start than rotten tomatoes itself where toy story 4 got a disappointing
No one gives a shit. That's an appeal to popularity
fallacy, oh, no, this isn't this isn't a this is a
Uh appeal to authority fallacy. Well because the critic said that
Yeah, the critics say it's good. Therefore it's good
Well, it's like appeal to popularity and authority, right?
Uh here it would be the authority i'm assuming he's about to appeal to the audience score as well
Yeah, if that's like if the critics say it's good, you know the weakest of the series at 98 percent
That doesn't fucking matter. All right, so first off first off you stupid child stop yelling
Right. We're yelling because we're responding to you. You're just yelling into your own camera
um
Second I cannot believe you were dim witted enough to think that the critics liked it. It's good
Yeah, all I can do is find out some of the worst things he hates and even as long as it's over 50 percent
I can just make the argument. I'll be like
I mean the critics like
Um, I would if you go through your um
If you go through your list of favorite movies or movies that you hate
And get a look at their critic reception, right? There's no way you're gonna match up with critics
Basically, no one will that's just the nature of people
So that's just you're just painting yourself into a terrible terrible hole
I just like this this immediate life. I mean it's pretty fucking highly rated mr. It's not very good. It's like, huh?
Oh, okay. Well
Shit, damn
Why are you I'm gonna scan around because i'm curious to hear what the oh the professionals we go. Yeah
So first thought we have a review by
This fourth toy story is the directorial debut of american animator screenwriter and voice actor josh cooley
He does his best with what he has with the script lack spark. Why even respond to that?
That's not like there's nothing to work with it. It doesn't click with a full review
That's just a that's a little blurb you there's a link to the full review right there that you click
Stephen
Introduction. It's just a tiny snippet
But he is he is he is gonna click full review then right? Yeah
Oh
I'm guessing he's australian and he said the fourth toy story is the directorial debut of american animators screenwriter and voice actor josh cooley
He does his best with what he has but the script lacks spark and i've read either full review
But that costs 450 a week. So why did you bother?
Is this one you fucking idiots?
What was the point of that?
Why did you just why?
That's critics man. I can't read it though. So whatever let's just move on. Let's just move on
Okay, all right, so sure yeah, that's not happening i'm guessing i'm just gonna go off what you said in the no
There's nothing to win
I can't read the full review. So i'll just treat his little blurb like the full review. You can't lay it
if if
Steven romay was here right now i'd be like, so what do you mean by spark?
And i'd probably agree with him because he's being fucking critical of the movie
Exactly, yeah, what was the point?
Little snippet the script lacks spark apparently which basically means
Wait, so it could it could mean that it could also mean it lacks originality
This is why I said it was useless because we need to know what he means by spark
If you can't get that from the guy who wrote it then we're fucked
The script lacks quality and I mean if that's really the first criticism you're going with
It's like well most people when they've written out or they have a position in their head
They will summarize it with yeah, it's it's not very good or yeah, it's good
The simplest way most humans do it
Why would you do this to yourself?
Why would you show us that there's there's content for you to respond to and you refuse to acknowledge it because it costs money
It's like why do that at all?
Why would you say something so confidently that's so fucking stupid publicly don't do this
Like unless it was only for the joke, but he's taking it seriously
He's he's read out the only part that you could actually interpret in any way that he's applied
A specific meaning to the word. It's just like why are you doing this film? You watch this film excels with well-done character
He's he's now responding to the comment that it lacks spark while assuming what that might mean
That's what's happening right now and he's responding with his own blurb. He's like it's perfect comedy
He's like, what does that even mean?
Because the comedy wasn't it was actually I think we counted the times we laughed. It was like once every 20 minutes
Yes, yes, you're right. Yes, we didn't mention that they were so
what were the
What were they the the joke about the keys being placed in front of them when they keep trying to plan about how they're going
To get them that we like that. Um
Um, hey, apparently my mic had cut out, but I was trying to say that whole time if I were making a video
Uh saying hey all criticisms
The wrong of course, I would be willing to pay four dollars and fifty cents
Just to respond to a review that i'm going to feature in my video. It's like it's it's 450
You have the money to buy fucking mugs with the aliens on them
I I don't want to highlight. Yeah, you're right like
You want to make a strong start right with all toy story full criticisms of wrong and you start with what is essentially a very generic?
Scented structure thing for for a full review that you don't respond to it's like why would you start there?
Why would you respond so let's go to?
Let's go to round tomatoes for toy story four. Let's click on the link. Let's see how many reviews he has to choose from
429 I mean when he made this it was something it had a number there, right?
Wasn't it? I think it would last 400. I don't know but there's definitely a lot to choose from
Yeah, and even if you're only looking for the negative ones like you have a bunch to choose from
I
I just have to mention here someone's saying
Someone's like trying to ridicule me for interrupting so I could quickly say something we all interrupt each other on efap
That's a thing that happens in conversations when everyone wants to have a say in something
The only time that an interruption has ever been like called out as a really bad thing was the yes and what we're like
Yeah, just wouldn't fucking stop
Oh
Yesen
Wasn't I like halfway through my point? He just started he just like was delivering an essay suddenly and I was like, hello
Hello. Oh, okay
Not not to know you're here. We invited you
Not as mentioned, you know how?
You guys you guys are cutting out for me
I'm speaking like i'm starting to start to talk at points where I think that you guys are done talking on my end
this asshole and
Okay, i'm calling you out asshole like he doesn't
Cut out
All you do is hijack the convo and i'm like, oh I hadn't as someone in the convo I hadn't noticed
Thanks for letting me know though
Wait, now you don't know if he's addressing you or southpaw or both of you. I don't fucking know anyone the four of us hijack the conversation
All right
Fucking shit. I just have to point out i'm not the only one that does the shit
Asshole, so I can go back to mord or goobog
That's mean that poll guy just wanted to fucking point out
You're being a rude
Like I think we can all agree evan's the one who interrupts the most
Yes, shut the fuck up. No theo is this fucking calm down. Theo interrupts every
All right. Anyway, let's listen. I think someone was saying that
This one person did I don't know if that's true. So say goobog did nothing wrong
leave goobog alone
What the rings is greatest full-time is true
My god
The first criticism you're going with I don't know what film you watch this film excels with well-done character arcs perfectly timed humor twists and just
Good writing in general twist. No, you can assert good character arcs funny
Yeah
Yeah, that's the thing right like we we we as efaparoonies, right if someone makes a statement like that
We'll be like, all right
Then you've not given me anything to work with all I have to do is say the opposite
And then we're you know, that's and it's fine
You can have that perspective. It's just like you didn't you didn't prove that guy wrong
You just said the opposite which we'll just now we're gonna say the opposite back to him
Uh, there's not good character arcs. It's not very funny. The twist is terrible. There we go
I know you are but what am I? Yeah, pretty much and
I'm assuming we're gonna get some uh
Some substantive stuff as we move along. I'm sure of it really don't see
What your criticism is here to be honest because you have no context
Yeah, we don't no one knows what that means. It's it's supposed to be
Ambiguous because it's the little blurb you write
As like a header. Well, yeah again, like it's just a fringy was here and he was like john mccullough was shit
And then someone's like whoa, explain yourself. He's like, no, I I mean i'm not gonna just it's just shit for now
that's just like
My my my summary other way which was like I can't respond to your points fringy because you're not making them people you're like
No, I know
That's not like we need for you to have read full review on his face. You can click it
Yeah, no one knows what the spark means this poor man who wrote his little summary to get people to click on his review
He's getting judged totally by that some fucking child on the internet
Is like oh i'm not going to pay for your article. I'm just going to assume that you're blurb your your head your header
That's purposefully ambiguous to get people to click on the article also
You can't write a review for a movie. That's probably quality in four lines
like
This is insulting
So I can't believe i'm doing this. I can't believe i'm about to simp for professional film critics
Like come on leave them alone leave those poor
Rotten tomatoes critics alone. Let them say what they think is good or bad. And if you want to explore their full reviews do so
This man from the australian wrote a whole
Article about this and you're like, oh the rotten tomatoes blurb was ambiguous
Fucking asshole, how is how is what he said not considered ambiguous too?
He has a video that's specifically designed to not be
ambiguous
I suppose you're responding to criticisms not like headers. It's
You're being as vague as he is apparently he dressed up as snow white
Snow white. Yeah, so that's always gill. Apparently. Um, all right. I'm looking it up. I'm looking it up right now
Instagram let's go making me making me defend professional film critics
Where are you? Where is?
Oh god, oh god, oh god, it's real. Oh my
Oh
Oh dear shit, that's sad. How long ago was that?
Uh, october 31st 2018
Well two years ago
That's it wait so it goes all right. Oh so it goes over like a shirt and tie that he has okay
Yeah, he's wearing a shirt and tie but he has this over it. Okay
Okay, all right these what a strange pair of
What an interesting photograph
this is
Because we I think that we found the apex disnoid guys
They look like vampires kind of you know
Go to the second photo cool vampires sort of oh
Oh
You know
Is the second one? Oh, no. Oh, no. There's the second one
It's a disney the disney company official halloween party
The disney company official halloween party from disney
Okay, apparently he gets to attend official disney events like that. Yeah
All right, of course. He's well if well, that's the thing. This is why
When you type things out and word them you should buy what language is supposed to be
You should try to be clear with what you're saying because I don't know if this is a a disney company official halloween party or a disney
Company official halloween party like it's his company
He works with but it was supposed to be like a disney or something themed
But would they be able to do that for legal reasons?
I don't think they would be able to do that. I don't I don't even know that's the thing
However, if it was a disney company, then that would explain why he's hardcore
Apologizing for this terrible terrible film
With no reasons
What I mean he said that it was funny
That it was a good character ox and they were twists so fucking and it was the perfect ending for woody
and
Showed me the twist nuts of it alone
I think
That's really starting
It can only go up from here if the first free instalments felt breezy and effortless call his movie feels forced and unimportant
Yeah, that's fair
Yeah, what movie did you want to also see plus that is definitely not deserving of a rotten score
That should be fresh. So the full title is a decent affair. Oh, you actually read the article for this one
Oh, you know
The series it's time for Pixar to move on I mean if you're saying it's the weakest of the series
I don't think that's really a criticism
It's just saying the other movies are better
Especially if you're calling it decent because that sounds positive this review isn't very long and one of the major complaints is how the plot
Is set into motion with
It's a bit like half
Here's the here's a bit wishy-washy. I don't I don't trust Seamus to convey the information of this article to me, honestly
Well, I would like to check this article out. What's the name of it?
Uh, can you roll it back just to go back should be fresh the full title is so
World of real wait. No, wait, that's not it
He's an affair, but the weakest just give me the uh, jordan ruey me jordan ruey me. Yeah
Oh, yeah, I read this out on my uh on my podcast too. And this is actually a pretty decent review that he just
All right glosses over here. He's like, yeah
Um the article what director josh cooley has decided to do this fourth toy store installment has hit the reset button
Kind of yeah kind of start. Yeah. Yeah
Former toy owner andy now gone and replaced by bonnie a young tycoon has inherited andy's collection which includes buzz light year and woody
This setup results in the same kind of theatrics and plotting as the first three toy story movies
There's nothing new being told here. Just business as usual
uh
Sure, mostly I guess I think we're talking about
Just just toy in trouble trying to save them get back. Yeah, totally go on adventure get yeah
No, it comes down to execution, but yeah, like that's
True to degree at least in this fourth chapter our gang embark
Should be acting in parks our gang embarks on a new event you write for a fucking
Embarks on a new adventure with new toy forky this spork was created from
Scratch by bonnie and has become her go-to plaything
Problem is should be the problem
Problem is forky doesn't want to be a toy. He says he belongs in the trash like all the other used sporks
That sounds so dark, but it's
Regardless his runaway nature has woody scrambling to keep him intact
Because bonnie will throw a hissy fit if he goes missing
It all leads to the usual chase sequences, which aren't far removed from the first three movies
In other words x pixar hancho john lasseter's input is sorely missing in toy story four
Would he have even approved of the final results? The question begs to be asked
And I would be curious
Um, I don't think he would because it's taking a dump on the ones that he did. He did the first three, right first two
He wrote the first clue. Yeah, he didn't direct the third one. All right
Um by all measures toy story four is a watchable affair something that families can all go see this coming weekend at the multiplexes
Especially when compared with every other mega budget blockbuster playing of this very moment. I'm talking to you godzilla
And yet I felt a sense of disappointment watching the movie
Yeah, the first three installments felt breezy and effortless cooley's movie feels forced and unimportant
The sheer brilliance of toy story three and the way its endings seem to resonate so perfectly so deeply
Made it by all senses of the term a perfect trilogy capper a lot of commas all of them as well
What I didn't want toy story four to do was injure the integrity of its predecessor, but it kind of does that
There's a sense of there is a there is no sense of relevance in this latest adventure
The words sellout and cash grab will be uttered by detractors
But it pains me to want to firmly plant myself in that direction
Mostly because the animation is staggeringly rendered another triumph of visual wonders for the animation wizards over at pixar
But despite being a visual treat the narrative rings hollow at almost every turn
Each toy story movie built up on the momentum of the previous installment
But this is the first time in the franchise's 24 year history where irrelevance has very much entered into the equation
Is that it
It lacks details you can obviously understand what he's trying to say
It's it's only like it's essentially
Three paragraph three four paragraphs. It's very short review. I mean that was all of it that I just read right there
So yeah, I guess for that amount of time. It's all right. Sure. Yeah, it's like I mean
Honestly, I would have preferred someone that would be like a little bit more. I don't know visceral
Yeah, I think you're he's being too easy, but it's clear that he has issues with it. Um,
456 words looks like so it's a very
Very you though, that's fair
My guess is he was trying to be spoiler free since since it was a newer movie and like it
I think if he had
Was willing to go into spoilers. He probably would have been more detailed and that would have helped but yeah as it is
It's fine
I don't think that's really a criticism. It's just saying the other movies
No, no, if you actually read the article
If you actually read the odd for a bit
Here's the thing
It took me like two minutes to read it out loud
Not in my own head in my own voice to myself
To read it out loud. It took like two minutes
And he clearly is knocking it for things clearly critical of it. Yes
Clearly critical of it
I think it's decent because that sounds positive
This review isn't very long and one of the major complaints is how the plot is set into motion with forky running away to quote it
It all leads to the usual chase sequences which aren't far removed from the first three movies
In other words x pixar honcho john lasseter's input is sorely missing in toy story four
Which I don't really think that was putting that other sentence in other words. I
I don't really know how you even linked those two things
We don't want to get closer to your face why do people do that
It's cruise control for editing
basically
Yeah
I mean we've talked about that. I mean well you guys have talked about that
I mean I use it every once in a while, but i'm usually zooming on someone making a funny face in a clip
Yeah
Yeah, just zoom in itself is not comedy. You need like to build up to it or something
It's low effort pretty low effort to editing. Yeah trying to make a joke
I'm just trying to make something that's not a joke into a joke trying to play up the
Stressed angle because he's like your comment makes no sense
But I let me just listen to him again because i'm not sure I follow
Which aren't far removed from the first three movies in other words x pixar honcho john lasseter's input is sorely missing in toy story four
Which I don't really think that was putting that other sentence in other words. I
I don't really know how you even linked those two things
It didn't it felt like a big jump to be honest
so
The first comment being it's it's it's like it's repeating the first three and the second comment being we need the guy
Who's a part of the first three to make this one?
You know, not like the first three and I think a basic reading you could assume that that's a contradictory set of statements
But i'm assuming the point is that john lasseter would know how to progress it instead of repeat it
Yeah, it would be it would have his
It it's almost like it it does the things but without his execution talent
Not too. Yeah, uh his flair if you will
Yeah, I
I highly doubt
That this person who was writing this was thinking in their head
that
This it repeats what came before it. We need what came
It's I don't
I I think the way that I thought was correct and how he
What he meant to say
I wouldn't hang on to this as a this article is bad
Mm-hmm
I think this is really stretching
Also says it injures the integrity of its predecessor, which would be a good criticism other than the fact
It doesn't explain how it does it just it just has that would be a spoiler on its own people that fell in love
Kids are now in that yeah, he's trying to
Spoilers in that review. Yeah
you you can't say buzz's character is completely contradicted because he
Let's woody. Just he just fucks off from woody
He lets woody basically go to his potential death and that's as a result of being tricked into being retarded thanks to his own
Understanding of his own voice box. Like it's just like
Okay
Yeah
Or that woody abandoned everybody like that that's spoiling things like a lot of newer reviews like like people that work for newspapers
They try to be a vague like people can watch the movie for themselves. This is the thing is like, you know
Mallory like your your videos are
So that like they're pretty much supposed to be watched by people that have already seen the movie or at least they don't mind
Having it spoiled for them because you spoil the entire movie in your
videos
And but you see not all reviews have to be that way some reviews can just be vague. They don't have to provide references
As the fact that providing references will result in spoilers
And it's like I think that it's important to provide references if you're trying to make
In-depth review, but like for people that are reviewing movies for a newspaper
You know to look into something with the amount of
Sort of depth that we do like how thoroughly we analyze it and all of the plot beats and everything
and then we write them down and
You know write these very long videos about it
It's like that takes so much time that it's not viable to
Do the same thing over and over and over again for every movie
Yeah, and there's people out there who want to review every single movie
So they're not going to be able to do that
Also the fact that yeah, like if someone said I would I would like to check out non-spoiler reviews from you for me
For example, I should be like man. That's gonna be a
Whole different ballpark because that's where you have to be broad. You have to be generalizing
A lot of stuff. Yeah
The plot has issues and you're like, oh
Yeah, there's nothing wrong with being vague general not necessarily backing it up with reference
The point of your review is to be like it's short it's quick it doesn't offer spoilers
It's like, you know, jeremy johnson and chris stuckman do this and
Chris stuckman believe it or not
but it's like
It can be done. Well, even if they're not necessarily providing references and I think that jay
very accurate at least when he
Like I don't know his how he reacts to movies and how he experiences them is rather similar to me. And so I I
force
Um more than more so than than stuckman
um
But there's there's a time and place for spoiler
That uh time and place for spoiler filled reviews
So they can coexist as for this one
Like I I wouldn't again
I wouldn't be responding to this one because I don't know what this guy means unless I was to maybe expand it
He's like what's mostly wrong here toys ought not to grow up. It's just like oh, what do you mean?
Yeah, I wonder what he means by this let's read the forties and forties
I'm old when I fought the series has grown up with them. That's what's mostly wrong here toys or not grow up
No, I mean like that's reasonable if you yeah, I know what he means exactly
30s and 40s
Okay, I was trying to look at this with you and I really don't know what's happened
I've somehow been blocked from the page protect them from online attacks
You've performed an action that triggered the service and blocked your record. Did you try on a different device?
Let's see if you did quest. Are you including this? I really don't know what i've done
Okay, I found the review on my computer. I really don't know why I got blocked on then. Why did you even fucking mention it?
Oh
Obviously, it was an error with your phone
Obviously the it's it's like not even I I would have looked at it. I was like, huh, that's weird go to my computer
Oh works perfectly interesting carry on access it try something else
Don't include the struggles with clicking on articles in your video
You have very little time left and you have made zero points in defense of this film. You've just said they're wrong
No, no, he said it's funny
That there were arcs that were good and that there were twists odd rags keep misrepresenting them
My phone my like on lists or something
so the first thing I want to point out about this review is that he openly admits to not crying to toy story 3 so
That the i'm already a bit skeptical. Wait, wait, the review said what now it was it flashed up so quick
I didn't have fucking time to process the information
So something so the first thing I want to point out about its review is okay
Toy story 3 is the only film i've ever screened where I saw some critics crying some not all not me
Okay, okay. Yeah, I see no crying to toy story 3 so
No, no, no, he's he's not doing that the purpose is that he is juxtaposing himself with the people who did
He said toy story 3 is something where i've seen reviewers crying
Like not me
But yeah, but that's what Seamus is saying, isn't he? He didn't know he's like he's just pointing out that he didn't cry
He's like no, no, he's saying he didn't cry
While others did while other critics like he's aware that the film is emotionally moving for people
I'm curious where this is going
Already a bit skeptical here this review once again goes through the plot and then just says the story doesn't work without explaining
Why the story doesn't work
I guess let's have a look at that then just give me the name and i'll type it up
Uh kind of hard to tell i'll click on it. I'll take a look then it's uh
I think on my podcast. I yeah, it's like like internet sleuth then figure out. Okay. What does the guy say weasel?
I don't fucking trust him. I mean why what?
I he's I don't trust this guy to accurately relay information to me. He's not reading the articles. So why would you?
Oh
So what's the name of the guy? I I need to find it
Where I got blocked on my phone my like on lists or something
So the first thing I want to point out is you're on the list
Oh, wait, so it popped up for a second. Hang on. No, yeah
First thing I want to point out about this review is the fucking
I shouldn't have to be sleuthing to see if you're lying or not
This is a don't be a bad youtuber. If let me give me a sec. I'll I'll open it up at a separate time
3 21 3 20
I don't trust the disnoid to accurately relay a critic's information
Oh my god, this is way harder than it should be
Wow, he has monsters ink it says
Ed gory on his bed mister movie toy story for a movie for grown-ups not kids
I think that's what it is. I don't see it. Where is it? Hang on?
I'm gonna get this. I'm gonna do this to watch together
Oh my god, I missed it. It's not even moving for me. No, i'm doing it in a different tab
So I don't want to fucking screw up all of the uh, i'm good. I'm gonna get this for you, right?
It's gonna happen. All right
There we go, that's good enough that is clear enough that you can use this
Oh, yeah, let's take a look. Let me let's see. He blizz it right before there might be an easier way to have done that
But whatever that's the way I did it
There's mister movie colon toy story for a movie for grown-ups not kids
Oh, I was talking about the the the blurb for the rotten tomato thing
I was just going to put his name in toy story four and it'll pop up. Oh, well
There'll be another way to do it
For let's take a look at it
The movie for grown-up here. There we go. That'll work
So let's get this one from gary wall cott. Yeah, gary wall cott. I'm on the article. Excellent
In case you want a link to it could link. Oh
Turn off your ad locking to read it. Fine. I'll open it in a incognito tab because
That is a small price to pay for fact checking a youtube video
Oh, yeah, you can't get past okay. Well in incognito. No, can't you? Yeah, just open an incognito
I'll even accept. Okay, I like it about gary wall cott
Gary wall cott mr movie column has appeared in the tri-city herald since
1992 oh my god, the ads no wonder I cannot but is this what ads are like now? Holy fuck
Yeah intrusive is the word
These are the ads that made ad block exist
so
Most of the critics I know are like me. We are a hard-boiled lot in cynical to the core
Those remarks are needed to describe the impact toy story three and its predecessors had on many of us
And to describe why toy story four is such a disappointment
Toy story three is the only film i've ever screened where I saw some critics crying some
Not all and not me. I will however admit to coming close
Oh you you he didn't have that in the I don't remember that being in yeah
He did not oh
Well, that's kind of a meaningful bit of an addendum there, isn't it?
Yeah, fucking disnoid snake
If any movie series ever had a perfect conclusion
Toy story three was it
The film's climax was beautiful and sad
But as sad as it was
Toy story three also gave us closure
We knew our treasured toy friends were happy and safe
So why ruin all that good karma and do toy story four?
The first thought that came to my cynical mind is money
Woody buzz light year and the gang are a huge profit center for disney. The first three movies grossed 1.9
Million worldwide
They cost about 320 million to produce so the profits are enormous and this one will add a significant amount to that total
With those numbers, it's easy to see why producers at disney and pixar couldn't resist doing a fourth one
That leads to the second part of the question on the table
fans and fandom
Other than the money no doubt disney and the folks at pixar are constantly pestered by insatiable fans wanting more
Demand gets producers looking harder at that 1.9 billion
So fandom is no doubt a major driver behind the production of the fourth film
To say the least the number four is a letdown
Actually, that's being nice. The fourth film is a disaster and that leads us to the plot
It starts nine years before the present day. Bo peep is given away by andy's sister woody who loves her attempts a rescue
Faced with a choice to go with her or stay with andy woody stays
Not a good summation of the scene. I will admit he would have gone if it weren't for you
Carrying on though. It's a life regret
Years later the new child bonnie
Goes to kindergarten and makes a toy out of one of those plastic forks you throw after using
She names him forky and he becomes her favorite toy
Things happen and forky who thinks he's trash and belongs in the trash
escapes
Woody goes after him and while on that quest he finds bo peep
Finding her also leads to danger that woody buzz and the other toys have to address
You've probably seen the trailer or photos toy story four looks like the others
The animation is impeccable in the music. Perfect
The voice work of a wonderful and talented group of actors is done exactly like the other films
Everything is as it should be except for the story
Not much works here until the third act and even then with the only ending it could have that makes sense
Toy story four just doesn't work toys aren't supposed to grow up
Yet toy story four is grown up. It's more of a love story in a drama than a light animated feature
Other than a running routine about buzz finding his inner voice. It's just not that much fun. That's not fun either
That's the part that he found fun. No, no
The worst part we want it to be fun. It's a toy story
We want it to be kid-like in a way that it isn't either of those things is ironic
Being grown up is not necessarily a wrong move for the film's eight writers. This is for my eight writers
Fuck me. It took eight people to make she's
Most of the kids who saw the original movie in 1995 are now in their 30s and 40s
They've grown up with the franchise. It appears the franchise has grown up with them, too
That takes us face to face with the film's flaws
Sadly, many of you are going to drag your children or grandchildren to this thinking like it's the other movies
Toy story four is not it's more adult than child and the child in this adult was bored
Worse, I cannot recommend this movie
The child is this adult a kid wanting an entertaining reunion with some old and very much loved friends is disappointed
There is no better way to say it than this sequel sucks
Pretty vague very vague
Yeah
And it's a vague and ambiguous
So the whole growing up thing. He doesn't even really elaborate too much on that like yeah
I'm not actually sure even reading the article. I'm not certain what he means by that
Yeah
Other was better, but that's uh that
I just wouldn't bother responding to these ones. They're so like they're not making points as much as
Like specific things you can refute. They're just sort of
You know like meh the film wasn't good. He's like
I turned off ads for that just like if
If that's all the reviews say just ignore them. You don't really need to do anything with them
That the i'm already a bit skeptical here this review once again goes through the plot and then just says the story doesn't work
Without explaining why the story doesn't work. It just says you haven't explained why it does
I mean, I guess credit with credits do that does happen in that review to a degree. It's like yeah
Yeah, he's not necessarily wrong because that wasn't the greatest of reviews and it's it's really vague
But it's just like find another review
That's the thing you can't say that you've never seen any criticism and you specifically pick out reviews that are ambiguous
Probably for the purpose of their reviews that you're supposed to watch before the movie
Not reviews they're like going into detail and explaining like
specifics like none of these are going to mention anything about buzz and woody and like
What the films did to their characters because those are spoilers and?
Movies that have like reviews that like talk about it like in newspaper articles are not going to go into detail about that type of stuff
hmm
Some just lacks any substance. I don't see how these reviews are genuine because they aren't providing us with actual
You don't think I won't say that wasn't genuine. I will never say that that review wasn't genuine
I mean, I don't know why surprised that's how they do those reviews that this is why I don't read rotten tomato reviews like the
They're very very broad
I mean also like uh, wait, i'm sorry. Did I did I accidentally interrupt again?
No, no, you're right. Okay. Good. Good. Good. Just
There a little bit. Um, no, I was also thinking like is that review actually substance list though? Like there was a couple of
Things that I felt were okay with it. It was
And a little bit broad, but it was fine a little soft on it, you know
Like the other review was but he said it sucks
Yeah, he did say it's yeah
Yeah, he said it sucks. Yeah, but like he yeah
She was i'm gonna like skip it back to like just a few seconds ago. He says like there's no substance to the review
I'm just lacks any substance. I don't see how these reviews are genuine
Yeah, don't see how it's genuine. I think that was a very genuine review
Yeah, yeah
I have no reason there. There's nothing shilly about that. He says it sucks. He's definitely going against the grain
Mm-hmm. I definitely don't think that he's not being genuine like do you think he's lying?
I mean, I guess that would be the question I'd have for Seamus
Like do you think that review is a lie and what would be the motivation out of curiosity?
You could say it's like contrarianism. Maybe wants to be controversial wants to be like armin white or something, but um
I don't know
Where he's like talking about like how like toy story three like made other people feel like that seems really genuine
He's saying like he almost cried and he thought that the ending was like fantastic. It's like yeah, that's that's genuine
Maybe not I I it's I
This guy this is a disnoid we're talking about
These people who don't like what I like who don't like the mouse and the brand they can't be serious
They must be lying
I have not heard a single criticism of this film
Oh, um, trust me
Rags, I mean he's seen tweets
Directed at him that he leaves out
We'll get there. We'll get there
They aren't providing us with actual good points to why the film wasn't good. Like you picked them out. It wasn't yeah
Have them represent all that's some that's some poop that's some stinky poop
I'm not saying why it wasn't well
Some of you might think it's unfair for me to say these reviews aren't genuine because it's an art form
It isn't good or bad. It's up for interpretation
But here's no you are saying that you don't think that it's genuine like you are being very uncharitable with somebody
I'm curious what he's gonna say next
Yeah
The thing looking at the critical reviews on rotten tomatoes
It was going stronger to hundred percent after 120 reviews until the 121st review was negative which
One in 121 people like it. That's a pretty good ratio until about five minutes later when the
122nd what are you doing refreshing ron?
like that's
Exactly with people
They demonized the people who like criticized the film like put the rotten tomatoes
The idea that you are defending this because it didn't get a 100 percent on rotten tomatoes like
You're a fucking psycho
Look at your bed. Can I just say that I
Can I just say that i've been accused of uh being like
uh
Someone who religiously
Worship's mission impossible fallout, but I have never complained about the fact that its tomato meter is 97. That's your fault
You should you should be refreshing that every day
Yeah, i'm so mad that mission impossible fallout has a lower tomato meter score in both
uh audience
than toy story four it's like
Okay, that's yeah, I guess that's something I should be angry about because that's it's a movie that I work
worship and now
No, now we have this kid who is pissed off that the movie doesn't have a hundred percent. So what he's doing right now is explaining
Like why people are doing this is it that's that's where he was going with this
I mean a pretty good ratio until about five minutes later when the 120 second review was also negative
And yeah, maybe that's all just a major coincidence
But the chances of getting two negative reviews in a row after getting 120 straight positive reviews is 0.0
What no
Why would you go to this leg
located
What a strange conclusion
Why don't you address points people make it sex played while you're wrong?
Instead of this conspiratorial
mathematics
Oh
Why?
Crow the fuck up child
Does it come for you guys
Does it does it come for you guys that he's 22 years old? Trust me that took way too long to work out
So i'm just saying it seems more likely to me that there were two people out there who wanted the publicity of the first
Negative review and well one got there five minutes earlier and talking about in yeah, that that's it
You can't say
You cannot say before this. I don't know if it'd be jenny or not
And then just be like they just wrote negative reviews to get the spotlight. Correct me if i'm wrong
What is what a piece of shit what percentage do you have to reach on ron tamales to be fresh?
It's it's something it's
Like I think it's about 60 then it it still counts
So the reviews we checked out or he's shown I could have believed that all of those were 60 plus
Like people saying like it does suck. They could give it a 60. I wouldn't surprise me at all from professional critics
Yeah, they could do my point. They could take the ig n route
My point is that those 120 whatever ones that were all apparently praising the film could have had anything in those reviews
Could have been like yeah, that was garbage. Uh, but still, you know garbage tier for toy stories
Still, you know a decent ride, I guess
It could literally all be like 60s, that's why I fucking hate this system like it's so confusing because yeah
Yeah, five 70s and five 100s are identical
It's it's not a good metric to use
Genuine reviews let's turn to our friend almond white the guy who's literally just known for hating things
Because they're popular. So why are we turning to him then?
Yeah
Why why have you established this and then said let's do it. I agree with his blurb
Yes, I agree with this blurb. I think arm. I don't see it fucking nailing it right here. I agree with
Also, you just asserted he hates things because they're popular you've not given me one example
Let's just see how he responds to it. I guess continues to indoctrinate viewers into childish compulsive. I agree
You are 20 fucking two years old look at your bed
Hey, man, he lied. I don't think he can
Comment on the consumerism part where he held up all those alien. Yeah. I've got a mug with the toy story alien
I have a lunch while simultaneously
Establishing that they're not even in the market say or the movie that but but he got them all because you know anyway
Yeah, like or they're from when he bought them earlier and he has cherished them. Of course. He cherishes all of his toy story
Look at his fucking bed
Hey, man, it's not just a story. He's there. Yeah, he's got sully and mike dory's there
I don't know what the yellow thing is
No, no, not the left on the right there's something draped over the
Like a pillow. Yeah, like a pillowy thingy and there's probably maybe it's causal. Wally. It's got to be something
What should be bionic be out of sync? I'm at 452
I'm at 452. I'm at 451. I think we're all right
Okay, you do
All right, firstly you've just accused an animation film of being childish. What did you?
Okay, okay. Yep. Wow
Let's do it. Oh boy
Oh boy, that was fucking retarded. So
What do we begin? So animation?
Oh
It would be uh
R-rated if it wanted to be
Let's say a scanner darkly
animated film
Hey, you went for it. It's rotoscoped, right? Oh
It's like scan a darkly well, no, I I mean, I think it would apply it's fine. Um, yeah
I don't know if frickin multis are rated but certainly animated
Um ghost in the shell
Princess model, okay
Just to name the enemies that come to mind there are plenty of enemies that are very violent
And adult and they're animated
also like child
Is it something like teletubbies, you know, it's like yeah, I would I would want to draw a distinction between four children and childish
Yeah, like this is not
their effort type, uh
Entertainment where there's like they're they're not even trying you wouldn't catch me describing wally's childish. Yeah
Yeah
wavelength
Yeah, it just it would feel weird to me
Not talking about like aquedine hunger force and metal. Occolips and stuff like that
Obviously animated but obviously not childish right? Oh south park. Obviously. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. It's like
Things can be for everyone in the same way that you know
I go wally's the pro example ratatouille. These are not childish movies like they deal with
You know
Depending on how you look at it and obviously depending on the example some
You know adult ish themes or at least they are not so childish that an adult cannot watch them
They appeal to all age groups with kind of universal
thoughts and things that can be appreciated
I mean you're not going to convince me that a nightmare before christmas is for children
No
You can't or james in the giant peach
You know
I just want to try to um
The point he's like the point he's trying to make is toy story four shouldn't be criticized for being childish and it's like yeah
But he worded it horrendously badly. He said it's because it's animated
You went to an animated thing and you called it childish
Besides if he had said you can't call toy story childish as a criticism
I'd be like, I don't know. It depends on exactly what the guy meant
If the guy literally meant this is meant for children and that's bad. I'd be like, uh
The weird criticism. Yeah, but if he said like their approach with uh, let's say important topics or what what?
Characters how they should be treated is very childish. Like what they do with buzz is really childish
Yeah, that's actually that's a that's a great example. Honestly, uh, it's
Not only is it just childish it's like it's literally like a child wrote buzz like you give
The script to a child and say hey, you're going to write a scene with both
With it, you know, it's like it's like it's how I actually expect a six-year-old to write Buzz Lightyear
That doesn't actually like I don't know
Capabilities of fully understanding buzz as a character, you know, it's like the cool thing about the toy story movies is that
um, it will resonate with the kids but
Made well enough that the adults can enjoy them too
And when I say that something is childish, it means like it's something that's like so bad that only
Small or really dumb children could enjoy
Yeah, it's like again tell the tubbies. Oh, I wouldn't call pokemon childish, you know
there's there's a threshold that you reach here and
Uh, I don't know. I I think that it's the fact that it comes from him
Confirmed this is the the ultimate disnoide. I think we've encountered thus far
um
it's
I I mean, yeah, I don't know if
He is the best one to speak on this topic
Small, I mean like I said, yeah, what are you saying about short people southpaw you fuck?
Yeah
Short people like bad stuff. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, short people do like that stuff. I mean, I imagine that shamus gorman is pretty
And he likes really bad stuff. Also. Here's uh, here's an animated. Um
Uh, here's a frame from an animated movie. That's pretty childish, right?
You said that's childish guys. I I watched the rescuers down
Over the kid that film ends with the villain like hanging a kid out
above alligators. I mean crocodiles like that
That's not very childish in films like tons of disney movies have this type of stuff
It's like really dark and select moments. It's just like
I want to say like even in tarzan where he finds the like the ruined house where the jaguar attack the parents
Oh, yeah
Is there like there's scratch marks and I want to say there's blood or something in there
Yeah, there is blood and the corpse. Yeah, you can see the corpses in there
Let me let me pull that up real quick
Parents corpses parents. Let's see
Oh, yeah, they're fucking dead. There's blood on yeah here. I got a picture. Um, yep, pull it up. Pull it up. Jimmy
There it is
They're fucking
Dead they're murked. There's blood there's blood paw prints on the ground. It's their bodies. It's like dead bodies
They're obscured by like shade, you know by by like shadow, but yeah
That's childish, right? I'm like
They're fucking dead
Yeah, people being killed very childish tarzan was a hardcore movie, man
Yeah, they would yeah dark moments they haven't stuck moments that's certain
Um, yeah, I mean like between that and again clayton getting hanged
with the the vines and the silhouette showing
Jesus
Um, but yeah, no, it's it's like when I again when I call something childish, it's like i'm thinking of something like
again, teletubbies or fucking
yo-gab
Shit that is literally like pretty much just made to uh dangle keys in front of a child
and uh
In do little l
Little other uh substance. I'm sorry. I'm a little drunk right now. So i'm not very cogent
But yeah, the arrow scroll is saying hunchback and that's dumb. Hell. Yeah, like hunchback was a good move tries to
seduce uh as marelda and he's the the
He falls into lava and he tries to kill him with the sword and he is like a near hanging
Like it's yeah, man. Hello nearly killed the baby in the well
Hell
He has like his villain song is him damning a woman to hell and he says hell
In that song. It's like wow that disney has
Far and fallen just as far
Someone said at mauler childish consumerism not childish movie. Oh
That's this we would say basically same thing
Wait, but almond white's comment into childish compulsive consumerism
but we're
Which I agree with this thing. Well, but that's that's that's what I think they're highlighting is that he's responding to this
Saying you think the film is childish when almond whites point technically is it's childish consumerism
I agree
I didn't even think of that
I was too distracted by the stupid other point thing the other thing he said
Firstly you've just accused an animation film of being childish. What did you think you were going to see?
Yeah, so he gets his point wrong and then
quasi defends it in a terrible way
Wow, yeah, all you needed to do was like
It let's if you were straw man again, it's like you think the toy story through a four
Is bad because it's for children. Have you seen the other films? Like that would be the easy way to do it
I guess
But like there's such a misrepresentation
Yeah, he didn't even need to say any of that, but he did and it made him look like a buffoon
Not to mention that it's target
It seems like it's targeted directly at the types of people like shamus who buy all these uh
To planet alien merchandise with mugs and everything
Because that's childish compulsive consumerism. Is it not?
Ready brought up how you got death threats for being the first negative review for toy story free
Which just proves my point. He is literally mister. I want to be the first negative
Whoa, that proves that look. Oh my that makes what you haven't proved that
And how do we prove that? Okay
Um
So I guess
So he got death threats for criticizing toy story three in a review, right?
I don't know why you would like from a purely tactical perspective
No fucking clue why you'd bring that up shamus
But I don't even yeah, this is like very he's like that proves that he's hating it for the sake of hating on it
It's like why would that prove that?
Wouldn't it be the opposite that would be motivation
Positive
um
Someone's saying evicted blaming it is like
It's just strange. This is all very strange that makes you disnoids look unhinged, too
Like he accuses pixar practicing big tech industrial hypnotism i'm going to pretend I know what that means
are you saying they're hypnotizing kids into buying toys because
I I really look at you. Surely you agree
Hold up a fucking mirror it almost look at yourself
I'm picturing that the camera is in front of him
But behind and around the camera is loads of toy story toys and he looked around at them like I
That can't be me
um, apparently it's for
Reviews that arman white well other things that arman white has said about movies is
Man of steel is the godfather of superhero movies and jack and jill is a masterpiece. Well, yeah
So it's like this is not the guy to take seriously
Absolutely. No, he's still right. He's still right about this
He is that's the thing. It doesn't mean you just forgot everything he says
Even movie bob had a good take once
Maybe yeah
Happens i'm sure we don't see what the point you're trying to make is fans pixar noids. We don't oh my god
Pixar noids pixar noids
Oh my goodness
Whoa, arman white was a prophet. He's a spider
Wow
Please come on efap
Arman white
Holy shit, that's insane
Oh my god
This is this makes up for any bad thing he has any bad take
It's not even matter anymore
Oh
Wow
I love this part. I've never met this guy. I never quite will
This circle is now complete
Only on efap could we
We complete a redemption arc for a man who said that jack and jill was a masterpiece
In like one minute
The fact that he used noids like really like the the odds of that fucking hell
I'm amazed. That's that's awesome. Uh
period
I don't think outside the toy chest or even care about the development of ideas will settle for routine politically correct placation
I don't even are you trying why are you responding to it?
You don't understand exactly if you don't understand it instead of saying this person said something
I don't understand and don't really know how to respond to the correct thing is to fucking don't have it in your video
Let's say like only really smart and creative people who think outside the box will understand
Oh, okay. The toy chest isn't like a literal box. We're zooming again. Did you notice? Oh he might it's uh, ha ha
Are you trying to say like only really smart and creative people who think outside the box will understand that this film sucks because
I just I think it's more likely the open. Oh, you're an idiot and you like it. So
I don't know
But let's let's let's go over that. Let let me pull it back a bit so I can get that quote
All right, 529 is where it stopped for me fans pixar noids who don't think outside the toy chest
Or even care about the development of ideas will settle for routine politically correct placation
So who don't think outside the toy chest is just his way of saying don't think outside the box. Obviously, it's relevant
There we go. It's yeah, I like that
Or even care about the development of ideas
Creative people who think outside the box will understand that this film sucks because
I just I think it's more likely the opposite
And only people who think outside the box will be able to tell this film is good
That's what that's what his argument is there
Well, this is just an this is just like no it's the opposite of what you said
Well, yeah, I guess that guy made a point this guy said it's the opposite we'll just say no
It's the opposite of the opposite
Many many references in this video that we can pull upon. I don't think this
I don't think this guy has actually like
made an argument
You're
the person
That you're referring to
Who's an idiot? I just can't with this guy and i'm going to move on to the actual first negative review this film got tyler smith
As a film that would attempt to live up to the all right. I know I got to pause it here. Anyway, yep
Look it up. Tyler smith battle step. Oh, I can just look it up. Tyler smith toy story
It's predecessors it falls regrettably short I agree ship retention
um
Yeah, so I got the article for when he fucking lies about it like the others. Oh great
I'm fucking ready. Like here's here's how you know, you're a shitty youtuber. Like we're preemptively preparing for your fuck ups
The emotional complexity of its predecessors it falls regrettably short. Oh my god guys. Never guess what this is another one of those reviews
Where they go through the plot say they don't like it and don't explain why okay?
Okay, so what do you what do you think you've been doing this whole time? Like that's literally yeah
You're doing it in reverse
Let me see if I can skim through this and see if he ever says anything. Um
Let's see when it was announced several years ago that there would be a third toy story film
I was worried first two. Well, of course, how long is this? That's not too long. Um
Let's see. Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh
With so many great surely these characters had gone as far as they could go right with so many great films already released including duh, duh
Surely pixar wasn't lacking in imagination and didn't need to dredge up its flagship for a third time
Of course, we all know how that turned out toy story 3 was not only a vital part of the trilogy
But also a masterpiece of animation an example of just how sophisticated a family film can be
So when pixar announced the production of a fourth film my instinct was to once again question its reason for being
With a series so perfectly and thoughtful. We've heard that before a few times
With a series so perfectly and thoughtfully wrapped up where else could they go at this point?
But then I reminded myself of just how wrong I was about toy story 3 and I win with an open mind and open heart
Unfortunately, it turns out that my initial concern was correct
While there are many enjoyable aspects of toy story 4 the film doesn't add much to the larger story of woody buzz and the rest
Of the characters become to know and love the film is instead a delightful diversion that never quite justifies its own existence
The story picks up in bonnie's room. That's die. Guess he's just going to go through the plot here
Um counters various other toys is all fits
Okay, of course this all fits in very well the larger toy story universe where toys are defined largely by their relationship to living children
The instinct to the instinct to explore those toys that have no such relationship is a good one
But the story never quite adds up to anything more than an interesting side note a fun
But forgettable asterisk within the franchise
The story itself is little more than a series of enjoyable action sequences with little to anchor them beyond woody's own persistence
Which actually becomes a bit tiresome as the film goes on
By limiting the action primarily to woody and several new characters
And sidelining the gang that we're more familiar with
The film feels like an ungrounded one-off
Like one of those ancillary toy story short films that precedes other pixar releases but padded out to feature length
Is the film recommendable? Absolutely
Features dazzling animation and entertaining set pieces is by far the flat out funniest of the series. It's a fucking lie
Yeah, it's not funny at all and but despite some good work by hanks it lacks the heart of the first three films
It certainly attempts to deepen the world, but in ways that feel more perfunctory than organic
In the end, it is a perfectly enjoyable way to spend an afternoon
But as a film that would attempt to live up to the emotional complexity of its predecessors, it falls
Regrettably short after the brilliance of the therm film
Any subsequent entry in the franchise was always going to run the risk of being ignored
The problem with toy story four is that it so easily can be
See
It's another review that is
It's it gives some fair points, but then there's also like it's way too soft on it and it's like, oh, yeah
It's the funniest movie. No, it's not. Oh, yeah, it's
It's been an afternoon. No, it's not so this is interesting
This is the if you go down to the comments, this is what pops up first
What
What the hell you dumb
Is that's that's so hilarious really this dumbass messed up and the 100% rotten tomato score people care about this stuff
They're like they want it to be 100%
Another picture on the way was a dome with a fat
If people clearly don't understand the way this system works
Like rotten tomatoes is a it's a garbage system
people have
It's just like around I guess
For some reason it's right. It's really a terrible system. Like we said if if 10 reviewers give a film a six point five
That will look identical
Then 10 reviewers giving a film a nine point. It's validation on steroids
Like people look at it and then they're like if it's 100 that means i'm good
Yep
This guy is a hater troll
I mean, this guy is a dumb whore
Do this man. Fuck you piece of shit troll
Um
Like people are fuck they're like people adore toy store people cannot dare. I say it think about toy story rationally
No, they can't it's it's like
Even when he's being rather tepid in his criticisms. He's getting this shit. Yeah
um
So if you were I mean if you like found that with our audience
At least like most people seem to agree that toy story four is the weak one
Yeah, not just the weak one a bad one. Yeah
So you have a
um
What was I gonna say I was gonna say it
Okay, I remember what it was let's say you went to this you went to see toy story four and you liked it
You watch this shameless guy shameless guy for validation or something, right?
But you're just a normie. You're just someone
and someone comes to you and says toy story was toy store four was terrible and
If you were going to defend toy story four if someone asked you why it's good
No one would have been able to do anything with shameless videos
They will not have any reason why would anything like say for example
You had a friend who's like toy story four was really bad the criticisms of it really good
And then you go nah, they're not and you send this video over. What would be the point?
It doesn't address anything
You're just saying nah
For a long time and you know, you can put some blame on the people that he's chosen
But then you realize like but he chose them he specifically chose them
There's no way that he's like fairly representing again all the criticisms that we had
uh
Of toy story four like we've I think we've gone over that movie somewhat thoroughly enough at this point. It's a terrible film
and
Trust me. These are
Yeah, we didn't even talk about ignores those the horror show. That was the rv getting controlled by the toys
Let's just take a break in stock no, let's do we will never get to it if we don't talk about it now
I'll use the loo you can talk about the rv and the police i'll be right back. Okay
uh, hopefully I don't cut out too much this time but
so uh woody is uh
with the other toys at this point, uh, like buzz and
uh
And everyone else they're they're in the rv
and bow peep
In bunny and and whatnot they're off somewhere else
and um
There's this whole thing that they go through where they're like they're trying
Get um
How does it play out um mauler in oven it's like my memory of this if I was to summarize it
It's that the rv is leaving the carnival or whatever it is festival thing
And they're like we got to get back and so buzz has potato heads or potato
Ms potato heads ear
And he's sitting atop the rv so he can tell them where they need to go
Like left and right and stuff and then he's got
The triceratops is saying please turn right that sort of thing on the pretending to be the um
Uh the sat nav whatever. Um, so the dad is like oh, that's weird
Why is it telling me to do that?
And then the first this is the first of like a hundred things that are so horribly wrong
The triceratops fucking freaks out and he's like turn right now and he's like, oh my god
And then he does it's just like first of all, how does that not make you go?
What the hell is wrong with our sat nav and the the sound is clearly not coming from the sat nav
But fine, we'll let that go then they start
Realizing that the dad is like preventing them from getting to where they need to go
so they need to pull on the pedals for the car or the the the
Uh, why am I rv? Yeah to make it go fast, but he's fully pressing the brake
So now it's just starting stopping starting stopping lights are flickering all this shit's going on. They eventually drive into the actual
Carnival place where there's people and children everywhere and the police show up
They're also lucky that the dad is steering the wheel exactly where they need
Like he just happens like he's they're not controlling the wheel
It'll be a horrifying situation and then the police show up and they're like dad's gonna get arrested. It's like what?
What do you why would you
The whole scenario is insane and it obviously it's incredibly important because it allows all the toys to go home to bonnie
while woody completes his incredibly
necessary and relevant arc
Not to mention, um, how about we talk?
That where bonnie realizes that her backpack is back in the antique store
Do we want to talk about how they figure that out?
It buzz very cleverly very cleverly is pressing his voice box buttons to to get advice
And he's not getting the advice he needs. He doesn't know what he's being held while he's being held
Yeah, he keeps pressing his button while the mum is holding him. It's very risky
But he's that desperate to find out some advice, but then he realizes, you know what he can just
Command the humans to go and get that backpack. So he just shouts out
Your backpack is at the antique store. Let's go
Oh
Which uh
Can you hear that and she reacts and bonnie's mom does not hear that very specific voice line, but nice and subtle
Nice and subtle. Yeah, nice and subtle
Just like oh, let's go back and it's like they treat it like it's not natural
The toy just said something like that. They could have made it clever. There could have been something that
Cued it to it. That sounded like something that a space ranger might save it
Like your backpacks at the antique store is something that would like raise eyebrows. Yes
I'm like this toy is haunted. The devil is inside of this plastic. It must be burnt
Pour it out
Just chuck it out the window. It's it's one of those it's got that anabelle
peak on foul buzz light here
galactic horror
yeah, and uh
the fact that it's like they're they're
Messing with the car you've got again toys are
Messing with the pedals and I don't know if you guys have ever been at the driver's wheel of the car guys
I have if you look down at your feet, it's pretty like it's pretty easy to see your feet at the pedals
It's pretty easy to see what would be by the pedals. So although this dad has to do
Down at his feet look down at the pedals and he should see these toys that are sentient messing with the pedals
But he's a little confused because he's a fucking idiot
Because they have the tire
They're pressing the brake, right? They keep hitting the brake. Yeah, how do they do that in the film?
Actually, I need to actually i've got the film pulled up. I'm gonna look and see how they actually accomplish this
Like pulling them down right like the from behind this down. Yeah
Uh
Yeah, i'll you i'll let you know when I get to that specific part
Yeah, and and oh and by the way the whole gps thing
Yeah, she she pulls it from the back
He doesn't notice that
His foot is on the brake. Basically the brake starts pressing itself and he never looks down
Which is a net like I would that's what I would do if that were the case
But then again, we're talking about a guy
All day to fix a tire that gets popped by jesse
Oh, wait a second. So if you look at the pedals which are shockingly in broad view
So the unicorn pulls the brake
which is
On the right. Okay, let me
The brake would be on the left
so the
So his foot is
on the brake
It's a little confusing I drive I drive a manual so I gotta i've got the clutch there so
The unicorn pull if you pull it up, uh, if you pull up the video at 119
Like 29 the his his feet is on this pedal the brake pedal
His foot is on the brake pedal. No, it's on the gas
The unicorn pulls the gas pedal and he starts slamming on the brake
Um
He keeps but he's like pumping the brake he doesn't just hold the brake down the guy
The the dad keeps pressing the brake and letting it off like he's pumping it. Well, it works every time he presses it
That's the thing right because if he held it down the the rv wouldn't move right theoretically
Yeah, yes, so he has to not do that so that they can keep moving
So he's just going to keep randomly pushing it for some reason
Yeah, he he pushes it for a moment then pulls off the brake then pushes and stops and
If the if the acceleration is or
It it it does. Yeah, he's just not he's not helping himself. He's he also
Why are you not pulling the emergency brake in this emergency where you need a break?
Just pulling out the key from the ignition like that's what you do
Wow, this guy is actually oh my goodness it took him a whole day to fix the wheel
It was repunctured
Oh, wait a second there. So now what they're doing is
So mrs. Potato head and rex are like fucking around with the wires now
I don't know why they did that. I don't know what that helped
He's like undoing and unplugging and replugging in the wires
That's a character we know and love this fucking blue triceratops is like biting wires
That's for like the lights the lights on the car
Yeah, the lights are all going crazy. Why is that a goal?
I don't know why the lights would do anything for the effects the dramatic effects
Um, just scare away the innocence
None of this would have happened if jesse just repeated the same thing
She did earlier in the film which was to puncture one of the wheels with a nail if she just did that again
Also really effective because the dad does not know how to fix it
Yeah, it would be a whole day to do that
They wouldn't leave until the following night if she did it again because they probably wouldn't replace it
But not not to mention do you think that a tire could be punctured by a doll holding a nail?
No, I don't think so. I don't think that most humans could do that if all they had was their hands
You would fucking wreck their thumb trying to push that in you'd have to use like your palm
But that would that would hurt like tires are kind of
Designed to take some beatings. Yeah
Like how many ads I think they even stopped doing the ads but I know years ago
Because i haven't watched tv in ages. I haven't you know
But all the tire ads would show the tire running over nails and then keep going
Has that become like air conditioning where it's just assumed that buildings have it. You don't advertise that you have air conditioning
I don't know. I'm actually kind of generally curious and i'm kind of asking i'm not in with the the tire
And with the you know, i'm not down with the sickness, you know, if you catch a drift
I think it's been way too long. Oh, hey, that was a little tire joke catch the drip
but
Jeez, well, it's like in this movie tires just have
Fucking burn it forever
I was just gonna say tires have a density of a balloon in this movie
I agree with that. Yeah
So oh my god guys, you never guess what this is another one of those reviews where they go through the plot
Save it don't like it and don't explain why okay. There is one sentence. No, you're incorrect
You're lying. I'm glad I had the article up because fucking lied
I like I kind of like that last review
Kicks are annoyed
Pulls up mauler that little little hat
That was babbie full
Toy story for birth first
100% is an insult to my existence
Oh my goodness
Because uh doing a really good job with the memes tonight. Yeah, these are kind of on point
It's an actual criticism
Which the story itself is little more than a series of enjoyable action sequences with little to anchor them beyond woody's own persistence
Which actually becomes a bit tiresome as the film goes on
Basically, the main complaint is that the story is too focused around woody and not enough around like the original main cast
I mean the review doesn't even seem negative. It says the film is absolutely recommend
I wasn't even his criticism
It seemed to be that he was saying that it's all connected by woody pushing everything which becomes tiresome
Which if I was to give a best faith interpretation, I would assume he's saying like why is woody so heavily invested in helping?
Not just forky the fucking gabby gabby, but yeah gabby for starters. Oh, yeah
And that's what I mean, I think that's what he means by tiresome
He's like, oh, of course because you're just fucking gonna help anybody even the worst people even though that's totally not what you do
But okay
Do we have an example in toy story for of woody giving more of a shit to help gabby than another character who needs help?
Hmm
um trying to think of like a
of a situation where that might be the case where he
I i'm not sure this is operating from memory and i'd have to
Go through with how they do that scene is we don't even know if he was kind of just like well
Can't get folky back unless I help it
Oh, you know what? No, no, no, so, um, they're about to leave right
About to leave the antique store and for he's like no woody look stop
Wait, look in and they're like watching gabby gabby get tossed into the box by harmony and then
They're like able to leave woody decides to go over to gabby gabby
So he actually prioritizes gabby gabby over getting forky back in. Oh, yeah, he does
Shit. So yeah, instead of
twice
Thinking yeah, remember he does at the beginning as well
When um
When he's like let's go back to bonnie and then he's like no, no wait
I want to check out if fucking bow peep is here. Remember just like yep, woody. I thought that okay
You couldn't inspect this place any other time
And it ends up getting um, yeah, instead of just returning forky yeah
It's more important that I could be featuring dazzling animation and entertaining set pieces and by far the flat out funniest of the series like
This doesn't even feel like a negative review. It says more positive things than negative things
And I mean on the topic of like no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it doesn't we read out that review and
They did not say more positive things than negative, right? You go from what he's screen shot and read out
It kind of feels that way. Yeah, so it's cut out all the information that goes directly against the things he's saying
Verbally to you the audience who didn't do any of the legwork and who aren't confirming these things that they should then yeah
It works out great. Hey, it's subjective. Okay. Yeah, man. It all depends on your perception fucking snake. Disnoide
Old cars nothing takes or not. Okay, that's what did you want them to do? Like they're all they're not you said it yourself
I don't want to sound like a broken record
Okay, so you're like making off. Yeah
Why does he keep seeing their own?
Nothing you can do with them. It's like you could do anything you wanted. Could we
Yeah, would his arc can be done and he can carry on
Using the lessons that he's learned imparting that wisdom to other toys
Is solving problems with his knowledge and his experiences
You could do that. If anything it's almost like saying why play an mmo once you get to the max level
it's yeah, it's like
When they said that they were gonna make a toy story for it like I kind of
So, okay when they meet when they said they were gonna make a toy story three, I was actually sort of excited for it
Shaded like I am now and I saw toy story three and like, you know what the ending pretty good
I'm happy with this and then they announced toy story four. I'm like, oh no no
Did that toy story three toy story three was like that was supposed to be the ending that was like a definitive
Ending right there, you know if if you're allowing, you know
Endings besides everyone dies to be a definitive ending
Okay, and then now you're going to like continue the story after that that feels wrong
And it's like yeah
Sure, their arcs were done. But woody's arc was done too. Why are you like?
regressing his character to give him a different
ending
I I would love because
I would love to have him actually address criticisms instead of ambiguously replying to some ambiguous
exactly, like we we're sick
We lost most of this now like I I feel like we've kind of almost wasted our time watching toy story four
I know right? Like why did we even bother?
Which is a shame by the way because I had a
Fucking blast watching joy story four. That was hilarious. I loved watching it
Thing we did we should have recorded it. That was a great we did record it the other one
With that one will be released eventually
Yeah
But
Yeah
Yeah, I had a blast with with that man. Like that was actually that was the most fun. I have had watching this
Oh god, that's how you make movies like toy story full fun
Yeah, it's like no like honestly my my first experience was I watched it alone in the theater
In the theater
Then I watched it with my brother and he was liking it for the most part until the ending and he's thought about it in
degrees with my assessment of it now he disagrees with me on a couple points
I'm not going to get into that right now, but it's like, okay, he at least agrees. It's a bad movie
um, but like
Oh my god, this is actually tolerable. This is it's bearable because i'm watching it with people who
Also understand why this movie is bad
You're watching
People who look at gabby gabby and say that she's a twist not a villain
Okay, and they don't understand why she is such a fucking
You feel like you're going crazy. You feel like the world has just gone mad
And like you sit down with people and you're like, okay, let's go
Let's go through the list of her sins. Like you're a fucking inquisitor, right? You slam down the book
Let's go through the list of all the things she does that are
horrible
You know kidnapping trying to assault people all of this stuff emotional manipulation man
What a shit person
What a terrible if a human did these things they'd be arrested. No, they'd be given to an owner
They love and they would be all forgiven
I like the trial is it's like if a burglar gets arrested and he's in trial
He is like well, they can have their stuff back if they want it
Hey, there's an update to the uh, the pixar annoyed meme
Yeah, pull it up here. Yeah, the original was done by pikachu. By the way, the original was was by pikachu
And this one, oh this is uh updated by pikachu here
I love you
Has toy story body pillow and blanket set gabby gabby is a better written villain than the itler
All the memes have been on point
I
This is actually like probably my favorite time that i've been on efap in all honesty
These videos have been great
I mean, this is the thing as much as it's been like what is what one of you managed to use for this video?
It's like well, we got to talk all about toy story. Anyway, like even if you know, yeah
Yeah, before we even got to the videos. We had a really good discussion about potential issues and actual issues
That intro we had four hours ago. That was like two hours long
Yeah
And
Maybe this toy story trilogy isn't perfect, you know, maybe there's some problems with it and we backed them up and
Overall reacted to it pretty well. We substantiated our arguments and criticisms of it and we we tried being fair as possible, you know
and
Sounds like racist
We get to this guy who's like all toy story four criticisms are wrong and he's not addressing any of the points
that we've made
Not the first person
We're not the first people to make this point to make any of these points
A lot of people think that buzz lightyear what they did to his character sucks a lot of people know what they did
And he's not acknowledging any of these he's just talking about these spoiler free vague reviews that
by
by design came
Into detail about the movie because they're there to just give spoiler free thoughts and allow people the option
To just go see the movie and experience worth for themselves
Yeah, they going in the third review that you read where you're like they're not being specific about the plot is like
Those are called spoilers
Which are typically not in reviews the way that our mainstream reviews just kind of put out there. None by the way
None of these none of these had spoiler alert in them
you know
so
Yeah, it's like that's the thing this this other places he should be going if he wants to find
What people didn't like about toys for specifically the comment section of his original video surely
Surely has like i'm sure he wouldn't cherry pick those comments either
Well, he did
At the very beginning
Yeah
He already did that. Oh, oh well
Yeah, but your points need to be explained for me to understand where you're coming from
Toy story full while entertaining fails to me
Kaylee monahan. Here we go
Kaylee
Mona and
I'm gonna keep doing this for hours on end. We're gonna look up these
And then we're just gonna repeat the cycle he's just gonna say oh these guys is the wrong
He might as well have just named this like most toy story reviews aren't very substantive
Which is true from what he's been showing but these are spoiler free reviews
But if you're if you're saying all of these are wrong
They're not very substantive. They're like you have to pick one
A lot of these are written before it even like has a full release into a theater as well
Um, that's why they're deliberately super vague because they're like this, you know, they're the press or whatever some of these people
Okay. Oh, I misspelled kaylee k
Ealy monahan toy story for yeah
Um charming, but I guess I got it. What was the publication whiskey and popcorn? Yeah, boy
um
Let's see wrong tomatoes
Uh
A 12 20 this one's a little bit more difficult to find. Um, oh wait just a second read more. There we go
Um, all right toy story four charming but worth it
All right, so the grammar of that title is just like fucking terrible, um
Let's see
Take a listen. Oh, it's it's a
It's a 13 minute 43 second audio thing
So I they're a hold up
So I guess it's like a mini podcast
You listen to it. It's not like a written
Um, so they have the little blurb before their
Podcast I'll call it a podcast is woody bows in the gang
Return with some new characters fresh drama and plenty of giggles in toy story four
But is this film worth seeing we're of a divided opinions on this one
Take a listen in here for yourself if it's worth seeing this disney flick this summer
Why do I think the we're probably not even going to know that this is an audio review from his video
I'd be surprised if he mentions it, but we'll we'll see we'll see
Well, what is his blurb? Um
Well entertaining fellas to make the case is why we needed another movie in this franchise one of us loved and the other not so much
all right, so that's
Not too dissimilar from what I got when I clicked on it
So I guess she I don't I don't know how it works with rotten tomatoes
Maybe you get the chance to make a specific little blurby thing for rotten tomatoes that they use. I'm not sure
but
It's similar but different to what is written here. Um
Is there a
Control f toy story
Terminator dark fate is unsatisfying for fans. I didn't mean to click on you, but man I fucking feel you
uh toy story four
Yeah, this is the this is the blurb and when you click on it, it leads to
Their audio review. Yeah, so that's specifically there. That's the specific rotten tomatoes thing on it
Listen to it somebody says go into detail about that
Yeah, i'm sure he will listen to it. All right
I'm sure make a case as to why we needed another movie in this franchise one of us loved the other not so much
Original score c. I'm firstly. I don't think that's a rotten review. I think that's positive
She said it was entertaining and gave it a c which looking the room is entertaining. What do you mean? She's yeah
Meaning the right of skywalker is entertaining
Transport is is often cited that way aqua man is entertaining as youtubers
Evan do you make youtube videos do yes
All right. I'm sorry. It's I feel so many. I just I have so many names
We watched one of his on this podcast
So much it was really good even though I don't remember it
Remind sorry remind me which one it was. I just need to get my brain kicks
Is the his objectivity video? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I know what you're talking about. I know what you're talking about
See, there you go. They just a lot of names a lot of videos. That's all it takes. I got you
So if you are you guys know what it's like mauler. Do you make videos? No, no
Oh, okay. All right, you should it's fun. So we're youtubers here, right? We make videos takes a long time to make a video
right
If someone was if I was like, huh, I gotta listen to a 13 and a half minute podcast for my video
I'm like
It's only 13 and a half minutes like that's peanuts
For research you need to do you didn't have also you didn't have to choose this one
He has an incredible phone case because of course he fucking does
She's add that to the fucking disnoid. Well, oh my goodness. Well, there's the incredible shirt already
Do you update that one?
Yes
Well, this is like a minimal level of like if he said he didn't
Maybe i'm being preemptive. Let's maybe be premature
So let let's see if he watched
Which is definitely a pass so
I mean, I I really don't see the problem here. So this review is actually like
A podcast kind of thing. It's only 13 minutes long, but the title is charming but worth it. No, it's a question
You fucking dip shit. Do you not know what an interrogative sentence is?
That is a question
Just like all
You know, whatever you're asking you're not saying it's not it's not charming but worth it. It's charming but worth it
rags rags
Crazy nitpicks most most people don't know what a question
Most people don't know what a question is. It's very true
He's actually like
A podcast kind of thing. It's only 13 minutes long, but the title is charming but worth it
So I really don't think this is that negative. Oh my god, that's so terrible
It's so bad charming but worth it. So I don't think that's negative
How do you miss a question mark
How do we even how do I people say gedel, how do I put this into gedel like do I say charming
What would the joke be like he's saying charming but worth it
Is this something supposed to be a prerogative
You think he or is that like I was gonna say parties but he doesn't go well he goes to disney themed ones as we've discovered
So like let's say he's at home
and
Uh, maybe someone else comes in and they think he's gonna leave so they say you're going
And he of course in his mind they're saying you're going
Okay, so is it you need to figure it out mola? How do I make that?
Sorry, I don't know
It is
Someone said stay to
Honestly disappointed from the rotten tomatoes review I genuinely thought i'd have something that made me go
What the fuck gave you any confidence in rotten tomatoes like wed why?
You didn't even listen to the podcast
You went through the trouble of playing it for the video, but did you not listen?
The stream is charming but worth it stream
Yeah, i'm saying back they're back we're back
All right
Okay, it's been a long time since we've been able to recover a stream that's gone down
Well, it came right back just like that. So hopefully we're good. Hopefully we're good
I can echo when and baller getting kicked out of the call one stream
A lot of audiotisms you're streaming time to update disco
Hey, this one's from uh, sophistic autistic who does pixel art
he says
On discord he said he said, uh, this was when rags told evan. Let's go on an adventure
He called me a liar sophistic your um, your pixel art is really good by the way
That's not gonna go away. Sophistic. I remember that you said that
So yeah, that's a good point by now, but no nothing. I guess i've got no choice
I've got to turn to the audience. I'm joking. No, I am not going over there
Fucking criticism to use if you went with the audience though. Yeah, like you could do some work
You haven't covered any criticism yet and you're you're running out of time, mate
You've only got like three and a half minutes left
You haven't covered one criticism you're just saying that
No, he's no rags. Listen these next few minutes. He is going to blow out every single substantive criticism against toy store
For the water. He is that goddamn good at counter arguing. He's saving it for the end
Our reward for sticking to the end of the video is the thing the video title is
He's making us hang in there
Is what you thought I tweeted out on my twitter. Okay, here we go. Follow me on app all you toy story boy
Jesus christ. Wow. Why would you do that editing?
Why he he screams anyway, he could have faded that a bit, you know
He could have softened that just not screamed like he's been screaming this whole time
He's like, you don't have to yell i'm yelling because i'm fucking emotionally damaged by this video and I feel like i'm slightly more autistic
This guy's just like recording a video for people to see
Do your worst and send me some genuine criticisms of the film and
Oh, yeah, I guess let's see what you have to say. I've got nothing like it's actually the why would you show the one?
That says i've got nothing
Why is why is shamus why is shamus gorman at blue shamus one replying to
Who is this woman shamus shamus? I guess it's just like a
Other account a fan account maybe I don't know. No gorman shamus is uh
Has a handle on twitter. I know that look who's making the tweet. Oh blue shamus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got you
shamus gorman at
Blue shamus one with a picture of him
That's blue. Is this a joke?
like I don't know if it could just be like i'm thinking about like the
Jeremy from geeks and gamers has like a million different fan accounts made that are all like different visions of him
I wonder if this is like a fan's account. I don't know
But uh, yeah, so we'll we'll go through this section and then I will show what you've got here, uh,
Uh southpaw southpaw is my name
Yes, I
That's pita evans
Got a lot of tweets to read out that he does not read out in this video
Oh, yeah, let's let's look at ones he selected and then we will show these ones
Yeah, let me just yeah, we'll read through those and then I have an anecdote about my uh,
First podcast episode in which I covered this very video. Maybe this is like a
at blue
Shamus the best film of the series don't actually think there are toy story for haters not gonna criticize perfection
Personally, I love it. So I haven't mentioned how great my audience is because
Yeah, wow
They're good because they agree with you
Yeah, I guess the way that his microphone is picking up the audio
It's very harsh and it's almost like it's peeking. You could get the tremble when he talks a lot of time
Feels like he has to yell. I I don't want to be in the same room as this person when he speaks
They're amazing
It felt like bonnie really liked woody at the end of toy story three and this was the reason andy agreed to give him up
I was left wondering if woody would have been happier going to college with his best friend
The goodbye between woody and buzz wasn't emotional enough the goodbye between woody and buzz wasn't emotional enough
So this is the thing
I'll just repeat what they said
Exasperated that'll do it
Like get away from the camera
What yeah, we don't want your face closer to the camera
Honestly, we honestly I kind of want his face to be made into like emotes for the discord server mauler
He's a he's a very animated human I will give him that
It's really funny because it's like it's a meme itself
He's like the ultimate nemesis of ever anyone about to complain about bonnie he's a kid
She's also a girl. So her liking girl toys makes sense. I
She loves him in toy story three though
She plays with him in toy story four. She plays with him in this fucking movie
Hey, and did andy not play with jesse just because she was a girl. Where's forky a girl's toy?
It's a spork
Our sports like inherently. Yeah. Yeah, that's yeah. I just like I don't get it
There's women and women are super fucking indecisive and what is a spork? It's like a female version of force
Figure out what it is. I don't know. It's just like
Well, there's like a female version of forky that we see at the end. It's a it's a plastic
It's a knife
Yeah, yeah, it's knifey. It's a knifey wifey. I guess I don't know
Yeah, knifey wifey. What if it's fucking name is like bea tress or some shit
Just pull it you can call it be working
You got a name. I got
I I didn't even get what I am. I should be sporky
I'm gonna be turning that around with me for the rest of my toy life
Not there giggle mcdimples could be removed from the movie and nothing would change nothing would change
That's because she's a sidekick you can do that with most films remove a side character and not so you agree
Just move on. Yeah, so you agree also by the way, not necessarily true
The um, you remember at the end of toy story one, right?
They need to lower the loading ramp a lot of the toys get involved in the whole sequence. Yeah. Yeah
Like the guy the one super strong buff toy is the one who goes over in with great effort
Hit he pulls the lever to release it
Would they have been able to even do that if that one side character wasn't even a part
of their gang
I don't know speaking the movie. I mean the film would have
The ending would have been totally different if that one side character wasn't here, but well
That much will change woody would never leave his kid
Even if he was being left out didn't feel like the same woody from the other movies thing. Oh, yeah. Yeah, there we go
That's a great. What do you know? We were eight and a half minutes and we finally got to a criticism
Yes
Guys you want to do you want to guess what he's
He's going to dismiss it in 10 seconds and move on
Woody's progressed woody's grown up woody is you know
And the bonnie doesn't need woody something like that his kid
Even if he was being left out because we've seen him do this
Before because woody's with a different kid now. Yeah, he'd have never woody's with a different kid now
He's talking about andy just with a different kid
his shame is surely he's not well left andy when andy was a kid, but bonnie's a completely different kid and
She didn't like his kid
Well, he didn't want the bonnie for the comments address. There's nothing about bonnie an effect he abandoned her
This is like the whole point of the film I thought it was a lass hole that's it that's it for that really
You change with a different kid now
Yeah, he'd have never left andy when andy was a kid
But bonnie's a completely different kid and his kid his kid is bonnie now
And that is he just said bonnie doesn't even like him. It's like what do you mean?
Yes, she does. She literally plays with him in toy story four. She's not his favorite
No, for some fucking reason forky is but who cares?
It's fine
By this fucking logic all of the toys should have left bonnie because clearly she don't give a fuck about that
andy
Terrible
You know, it's this is like the whole point of the film. I felt it didn't really fit in with the other three without the classic
Star Wars references, you know what?
First actual good criticism. There wasn't a star wars reference. I'll actually give you that that might be the only flaw with this
Why are we here?
Video is like
Fuck is this who is this cartoon of a human being? I think that who is this?
Wait, are these videos like some kind of a is this like a series of him where he parodies things?
After he was done with that point, I feel like
evan's
Icon pretty much sums up the perfect facial reaction to that coming
Oh
That's who he is. Yeah, basically
This is some this is some shit to your it's the next level shit, right?
Next level imply some level of progression
At least be wrong. I mean we don't
We're getting there. I was gonna say we'll probably finish this video then look at the tweets. He didn't cover just because we're so close
Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. He's going to cover this one guy
Got cherry pick them and leave out like really valid
Criticisms that he made and I want to cover those first
As like we cover the video if that's okay. So so what do you want to do first? I'll tell you when okay
Yeah, well done orange Seamus. Okay. This is a friend. So be prepared twist. Okay. This is this guy. It's this guy. Okay
Well, I recognize that from the pictures the video we're gonna watch the video now. Here's the thing
So I have to give some background here. So as I was covering, um this video for my podcast
Also did what rags has been doing uh tonight
I did some internet sleuthing work and I looked at the tweets and in the reviews and read them
Context and everything and so for
Unfortunately, he's protected his account so I can't access the tweets themselves
But I did pull them up on screen on on my podcast. So I have a screen cap
Idio screen of my podcast, uh for his tweets that is left out here
But we'll just go ahead and continue here story four is trash. There's no argument about all right. Yeah
This person complained about ducky and bunny wanting to
what
Yeah, what yeah, they do spend the movie wanting to kill people
Yeah, wait a second. Did I did I?
Are just making sure is everyone on nine ten? Yeah
So what he did was he he he started reading this guy's thread and it started with there's just no argument against the fact
That it sucks. And then he laughs and then he brings up this specific
tweet
So he skips over. So let me read the ones he skipped over. Okay, so
So look at look at this the third to last screenshot that I
go
it's um
Toy story for his trash. There's no argument about it. First off buzz acts pretty dumb in it
Like he can't hear himself. Think why do they put it in the fourth movie?
Second he skips over that latter part to just laugh about how there's no argument about it. He skips more
He skips next up woody
He decided he was done waiting three days to be played with by bonnie even though he waited about 10 years for andy
To play with yep, he skips over that tweet entirely
over that
Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Let him read out this
in this
Video it's called humor
You laugh at it gabby gabby was a bit weird to say the least she wanted. Oh, okay. Well, it is kind of weird
Well, then he skips over four you notice how he said third and now it's fifth
So now let's read the fourth fourth fourth bow peep
Why did they change her? I don't even really know what was going on with her most of the time agreed
She made it hard to understand what she was doing or wanted
They made her character arc hard to understand and why she changed into a lost toy
Because yeah because molly had outgrown her question mark
Because she was tired of sitting on the shelf
So she wants to just leave and hopefully find someone who
Will want her but she lives in like a carnival. There's kids everywhere all the time
Is that the logic? What does she do with her day today? Uh, bo peep. What does she do?
She gets played by kids like just random ones essentially that they're like on the playground or whatever
none took her
I guess not
But
And that goes on adventures in her remote control, uh rc skunk skunk that is not sentient
Rc was but remember bo peep could change a tire faster than the adult cat
Because you know women are great at ever
especially porcelain women
Yeah, um, um, is it carrying on with this or is it going back to the video?
Uh, I guess let's go back to the video
To rip open woody and take his voice box. She was kind of a creeper
Yeah, I asked for criticisms not an explanation of someone's character. She was an antagonist for a lot of the film
I thought you said she was a twist villain meaning she wasn't a villain at all because that's what snake was
Earlier on you said she wasn't a villain
Now you're holding back on that again. Well i'll give him credit. He said they're an antagonist
You can be an antagonist without being a villain
Um, well, it's like
But she is a villain. Yeah, that's the point
Yeah, I think this guy's point was the fact that gabby gabby is a creep though
That basically like doesn't get a comeuppance essentially. Yeah, like you could be waiting this way straight forward
Yeah, she wanted to rip open woody and take his voice box
How is that not a criticism when she's supposed to be a good guy
The the film clearly wants you to be happy that she got a happy ending
Yeah, the film wants you to feel pity for her and sadness for her and they want you to root for her
But she is a terrible terrible
person toy
And she deserves bad things
To come her way if karma's any she deserves she deserves to be like fucking
She needs to be left in the box to fucking cry and be lonely. She deserves to be taken apart by
Sid is what she deserves rith beatings. Just point out. Uh, no, sorry. It wasn't grifu yoke splooge
Just zooming in again. Like he keeps we haven't pointed out every time but he does it
It's not comedy man, you need you need something to build up a joke just zooming in it's it's not funny
You need to like accent something, you know
That was her motivation vincent was creepy. He never thought his motivation was to be
Like what was the way the guy used?
Um
The creepo yes, his motivation was creepo
Okay
Yeah, it's really creepy
Porton his joints made him seem zombie like and the way they chased everyone made them seem evil
Is this satire
All right, so I I need to listen to this comment be read out again just so that I am fully
It's
Six vincent vincent was creepy true
He never talked and his joints made him seem zombie like and the way they chased everyone made them seem evil
Which is obviously calling to you on the fact that they're supposed to be good guys. Ultimately
And but the thing was when they were chasing them for evil purposes
Well, they were trying to capture guys at all
The movie thinks they're good guys. Sure
Well now watch how he's going to completely miss the point and say yeah
Of course, he's supposed to seem evil because they're the bad guys
He never talked and his joints made him seem zombie like and the way they chased everyone made them seem evil
Is this satire is this is this you know, that was the point
I think I think this person's joking. I felt buzz was no this guy is an insufferable faggot
Okay
The point here to reveal to him is that they're not actually bad guys according to the movie
Yeah, the movie says they're not bad. The movie says gabby isn't bad. They are
They are all kidnappers
Kidnapper just to begin black mailers extortors, uh black market like organ dealers
They are they are like oh
Fascist sorry genocidal fascists, but they're
Up there, you know, I'm sure if they were hitler's puppets, you know, they'd be all down for it. What?
How can we be sure that gabby gabby was not hitler's doll?
Oh man, this is the deep lore. Well, if what he was made in the 50s
Made and she was around a similar time. I don't know maybe
What if she was uh, but what if she was hitler's doll maybe maybe there's toy reincarnation
I
Also, did he not really know the last comment
Um, so lastly so the guy's tweet says lastly which I forgot about the ending
Woody decided to leave everyone his purpose was to give every kid a toy
Then he left his own owner after three days of being played with all of that for a girl
I don't feel told toy story four if it the series
agreed
I agree that was
And he just skips over entirely and moves on to these uh these next people
See how he deals with these women. Isn't this so honest kind of dumbed down in this film
He was able to make decisions in previous films without his buttons in previous films made tons of choices without pushing his buttons
I loved everything else about toy story four. Don't get me wrong
Okay, the thing with buzz. I think it's a bit of a nitpick more than anything at first. It was like yeah
this is comedic really
This is just a nitpick
Um, it's just a nitpick the plot
He specifically does things that are integral to the plot because of these stupid buttons and him relying on them
I was abandoning woody because this fucking voice box told him to is not a nitpick. Yeah that
That is insane. This person's
insane
You know especially when we have established that buzz knows exactly what those buttons are
They're just voices. He's a product buzz buzz buzz buzz lightyear to the rescue
They're saying things that have never been in any of the other movies it's like it's like he has like a hundred more now
It's like yeah, like do you not think that he would look back and be like, you know
What if I trusted for some reason these voices coming out of my chest whenever I needed to make a decision?
What calamity would have befallen me and my friends
Do that in toy story too
I've said it before
And i've said this before on efap
I've said that nitpick does not mean a criticism that you don't care about nitpick is something like okay
When we pointed out that when
This is laser, uh, his hand is clearly not on the button. Okay, that's a nitpick when it comes to I don't know
bullseye being able to
Pain going hundreds of miles an hour down to tarmac about to lift off
That's not a nitpick that affects the plot that affects how the the scene
When it comes to how strict impossibility that allows the rest of the film to happen
It's a resolution film and like it's it's built on bullseye being faster than a horse
Buzz without explanation is a fucking retard in this movie and that affects how I mean
imagine how he could have been if he
This movie that would have affected the plot
and uh
And yeah, it's like this is um, this is not a nitpick. I'm sorry. Seamus. You may not care about
How he was written this was fucking garbage and it's like the most common criticism of this movie even people that liked
woody's, uh ending
Didn't like buzz would agree that yeah would agree that buzz was mishandled like that's pretty much one thing that almost everyone can agree on
even if you like how woody uh
the story here
It's funny the only actually used his inner voice like five times
They were all mostly at the start like I agreed the last one could have been avoided
Like he didn't need to have his inner voice tell him to go back to abandon woody
I think that's what it said. I like I like how he phrases it that way go back to base
No, he abandons woody to whatever fate
He's like, oh you're gonna fight off four five puppets once in there. Oh and the cat's in there, too
We just watched the cat go back in there
You just go ahead. We'll be fine woody. I'm not your friend to infinity and beyond or anything. I'm just gonna go
I guess we're done. I guess we'll never see each other again
But because I don't think it would ruin the film for anyone like even you said you love the movie other than that
So it's more of a nitpick really. I'm sad that combat car didn't get his high five
you should have stayed and watched the film all the way to the end because well, I'm not gonna say what happened but
Combat car gets its high five at the end. Oh, sorry spoilers
And yeah, I guess that's all I've got for you guys today in conclusion toy story four is a perfect film and
This can't be real this is a this
I don't know. He's it's pretty thorough dude. He's pretty he's been pretty thorough
You know what? Like honestly, I wish I could make counter arguments. Uh this
this tier
so like
But he he has the tlj. It's so perfect the tlj poster the toy story
All of the toys on the bed the iphone with the incredibles case the snow white dress in his past
like so particularly this pull his face too
Is this like the long game like
Has he been working
Yeah
Sorry
Okay, so
He's the ultimate nemesis of ethap because every time that you pause like every fucking frame that you pause it's a
Making counter arguments against this guy would be child abuse. Okay, you gave you that's
That's a good
All right, so let's just close this one out and then we'll have a look at those other things he didn't address
There are no arguments against it. So i'd say if you agree make sure to leave a like but
everyone agrees so
Everyone has to leave a like and if you enjoyed this video and want to see more toy story four videos
Make sure to subscribe to my channel and watch another video
You can also check out my patreon and support my channel in
Monetary ways this is like I don't want to click this link and in the description down. I don't say that
Like like be hyperbolic, right? But this is one of the worst
Pairings of videos we've ever watched
When it comes to the dismissal of anything relevant the sheer dishonesty and the lying through omission or just the flat out lies
The the incredible disnoid chillery
Like this is this is one of the worst pairings of videos that I think we've ever watched
This is just your opinion garbage to your garbage tier
Um, wait dishonest if someone asked what was the screenshot in tool?
I just used light shot. Everyone should get it. It's like one of the greatest tools ever
light sh o t light shot download
So I guess i'll go ahead and read out some tweets I guess
Uh, but I go into what are you posting so I can get them on screen
I posted them. Yeah starting with houston productions. So
context
context, uh, so
During the podcast
During the editing of my my first podcast. I wanted to actually
Um, I don't know if it was during the recording. It was at least during the editing. I wanted to go to shimas's
Under like like the replies to the tweet that shimas posted in his um video
And see what were the other criticisms that were made that he left
I thought we have houston productions one who?
Um mauler, would you like to maybe give a little bit a bit of back back a little bit of background
as to
Sorry for my porky pigging out there
Sorry what?
Sorry for my porky pigging out there. Yeah there, you know, right
You want to give context to what specifically? Yeah. Yeah. Oh just the background on on houston. Oh, well
He really doesn't like me like that's all I really know about houston. Fucking
He's he's not a fad, but he he loves tlj. I think that's like that was a huge reason for why he fucking hated me
he was uh
He also jumped on the train of the the jenny stuff like
How would the horrible sex he says?
He was the second person I covered on my podcast and it was his joker review where I think that he uh
Inuated that Todd phillips agrees with joker
basically
um, like endorses
violence, uh, I can't remember
pretty awful
um
But yeah
But even this guy
Even this idiot responded to shame
Miss instead the film depicts bill peeps last toy lifestyle as it's as if it's the results of her burying her emotions only to do
A complete 180 and act like she was truly enlightened and woody was
No, I don't buy woody joining her when all she ever did was patronize him. This is a great fucking take
This is like this is diamond tier honestly
Yeah, why accurate as fuck chick has been an asshole to him
the entire movie like they
it's this annoying thing that they do with
Versus they they have to
You know talk down and patronize to the male characters and everything. I I fucking hate it. Um, but
then he
Just tonally all the stuff with gabby gabby is bizarre when woody gives up his voice box
The scene portrays as a low moment of weakness where he's lost all hope the scene then completely flips and acts like this was a noble
entirely coerced
That's because he said he says
explicitly like
Let folky go pretty much. Give me folky or something like that, right?
Just let me have forky and i'll do it. Yeah
Um now we have uh the next screenshot from
someone who's not
They're not famous or anything
um
Gay karen says bow never felt enough like never felt like enough of it
After all this time it's hard to get into her relationship with woody
And the fact that he'd even think of leaving andy or bonnie and all of the rest of his lifelong friends
seems out of character and uh
That's a it's a great take that's that's a quite accurate criticism. I would say what do you think mauler?
What do you think about about that rags and evan?
I don't understand what what
It's kind of like what we were saying this moment ago
Why does woody give a shit about what she's become when he she treats him with such disdain and mockery so often?
Yep, like can you like if this was that this was a real man and a real woman
And and this guy was like I think i'm i'm gonna marry this girl. I'm like, dude
Can you imagine living with this cunt all the time?
Like she treats whenever we're whenever we see you and her she's treating you like shit. She's always putting you down. She's mocking you
It's like why would you want to spend any more time? Why do you hang out with her at all?
Because he's a simp
Because because what you used to know her years ago, and she wasn't quite as big of a bitch as she's become now
Like I don't know. I feel like the standards for abandoning
everything
For her should be a little higher than
So then someone responded to gay karen and said unrealistic may point out. It's a movie about living toys
Oh, which is such a
Status thing unrealistic. You can just say inconsistent. That's all she needs to say. Uh, exactly but but then watch this
gay karen says
Character. I don't know if it felt out of place
Oh, sorry, um gay karen says unrealistic for woody's character. I don't know it felt out of place of the toys
So that person responded says yeah
He was always a very loyal toy and to suddenly leave for some ceramic bitch. He hadn't seen 15 years is very out of character
so that person even
Was around and
Like yeah, they definitely had a tinder out of that one. All right
um
Next is eric bonnet
It's buzz has been alive for at least 10 years and has never once occurred to be conscious
And apparently he's never made a decision on his own before
This is genuinely my only problem with the
Character's previous intelligence for the sake of the plot
I mean you should have way more problems than that
But like I said even people that liked how woody ended up
She was with buzz
um
Then we move on to rebecca anne woody never tells gabby gabby. She didn't have to resume blackmail to get his voice
And face consequences your actions you keep your voice keep clipping out. Sorry woody never tells gabby gabby
She didn't have to blackmail to get his voice, but
These consequences were her actions nor does she admit she did any wrong?
That's another good take. Yeah. Yeah. No, I don't know
Consequences doesn't admit she did anything wrong and it's coming from a woman. Look at that
It's almost like women don't need to be panned or two like this until that they're awesome. No matter what they do
Well, you had if you wanted to you had jesse
Established rough riding action the hero that everyone likes who you can take that in multiple directions. She can feel cooped up
She can feel that she's not really the owner's toy that she's uh, she wants to get out in the world
Something just you could do whatever you want. Whatever
You have to fucking run with stupid peep
person
So next one says, uh, I definitely enjoyed it and thought it was a fairly good film
But it also didn't feel like a star wars movie a toy story movie. Uh, wow
Probably because I read the statement. It doesn't feel like a star wars movie like a thousand times
You just your brain assumes you've seen this and it's a million times. You know exactly where this is going
But I you know, that's fair toy story four is not a star wars movie
Yeah, you're not wrong. I ain't saying you're wrong
I don't know
But all the original characters were kind of shoehorned into this movie and I think they should have either played a bigger part
Or not been in it at all
Also, not gonna lie
I didn't cry or feel emotional at the end mostly because buzz felt like a weird character in this movie and him and woody didn't have
The same connection as all the other films so their goodbye really wasn't that sad for me lol
Plus I think people overhyped it to me
Oh, yeah buzz isn't buzz in this movie. Yeah, he said
He's clearly a different most lightyear doll about his
He must have been like the stunt devil from an old one who didn't know what the real buzz was like
Next up Alex standard assassination just saying
What are the easy ones to sort of reference?
Next up is Alex at Gucci noodles
I don't hate it. But here we go. I found like buzz got a little dumber in this movie
It's weird that bonnie's parents would take her on vacation right after she started kindergarten
Wait, which one? Which one is this? Sorry. I'm lost
This is gucci noodles
Oh, I I skipped which one to be i'll go back up and do it in the
Star wars episode nine
Alex
Gucci noodles. I'll do the which one to be next. I actually skipped over that
I feel like i'm blind. Where the hell is it? It it's below the one you just did. It's the second one
I'll do the one above it next
Oh, right. Sorry. It's on the one i'm on. I was looking at everywhere else
Um, yeah, it feels weird that bonnie's parents will take her on a vacation right after she started kindergarten
Woody's ending felt out of place because that wasn't a desire of him from what has been seen
We have the which one to be at for
Marillo 03
Buzz had already shown leadership and a capacity for decision making in the third film
And although he was hilarious in this movie and did make me laugh a lot
I feel like it was a downgrade for the character
Yes
Like that's the yeah
Oh cool. It'll downgrade
Sin seredi at seredi sin says woody wasn't being benevolent
He was throwing a temper tantrum at once again, no longer being the center of attention
So he sought it out by using forky as a proxy
Then he abandons the child he claims to care so much about to seek out a life. He sees as more adventurous
Buzz was dumb as fuck for no reason
The face is good
Corin
Says I genuinely think it's out of character for woody to leave his kid and the rest of the toys for bow
As much as I like their dynamic
His entire arc is about caring for andy no matter how little he gets played with and he clearly felt the same way at the beginning
for bonnie
Uh smudge says the ending would never happen. They made woody do something totally out of character
He would never leave his kid. Here's some other stuff. I don't like buzz is kind of dumb in this movie
None of the jokes landed and bonnie's toys do nothing in this movie except helping woody
I mean to be fair that's something but yeah, it's they've got a lot of a lot of cram this thing with characters
Um buzz and uh lark 1610 says buzz and jesse were of so little importance that you could have cut them out of the film
with almost zero consequences
And
Then we get to the ones that we've read before from big
dwk the ones with a bunch of
Real ones that he just skipped over
Yep, which means we've done it
We did it. We covered two videos today after a two-hour intro
Yay mark it on your calendars folks. It can be done
It is possible
That closes that all good. This was not very good. I think that was a point, right?
Yeah, it's a fucking shot. I think so. Uh, it was one
Eat it with a bag
Um very bad do we is this do we know super chance is that what we're going next?
I suppose I think we were considering that the captain midnight video
I don't know how long that is kept like it might be like plus 15 minutes or so, but
We're already nearly up to four hours, uh eight hours. Sorry, so we might
Um not make it
Yeah, yeah, we should probably get to it
Um
Well, yeah, I guess uh, obviously, you know, it's up to you guys if you want to stay or go
But this would be in a juncture in which to decide
I'm going to stay all right then. Um,
Is there any anything else? I think we're okay. I'm just gonna start reading these. Are we good to go? Yes
I don't think that I'm good to go
Uh, this one says yo boys you infected
No, not yet. No, i'm not infected made sure to wear my gloves and everything today
Washing my hands cleaning my butthole
Make no no chances here
That's that's good. That's good news
Uh, so it begins
Yes
Metal, where are my quality options? Also, you're 15 minutes late now back to work for me
I think I saw some people mentioning metal was streaming at the same time we started so
Oh
Twitch is the big gay depending on how many viewers you get to like
Well, it's not even that sometimes they just take away your quality options
Which what that means obviously is that if you stream at 1080p then mobile viewers can drop you down to
something much lower but listen to the audio and
sometimes
They take that away from you and it's very frustrating for viewers who have you know, uh,
Let's say not a lot of data
um
I hope I would have thought you'd be all right these days. Um, but maybe not who knows
Uh glad you guys are back. Hope everything is okay with everything quick question
What are your thoughts on all the dead space games in general?
They're
The first two are very good
Third one's all right
um
from a mechanics perspective and
So it's it's not bad at all. Um, it feels very out of place for dead space
It's definitely the weakest of the three
um easily the weakest of the three but one is
Fantastic with it one and two are both fantastic. I prefer one. I definitely see why people would prefer the second one
I feel like the horror is better in the first one and I think the setting
Because it's the first one and we're being introduced to it for the first time that has a lot of impact
Uh similar can be said with bio shock where bio shock two is mechanically the superior game
It is a retread of the setting and it doesn't have that impact that the first one has introducing you to you know rapture
um
First two are great thermons. All right
If people say the third one's terrible, I don't know about that. I think it's being hyperbolic
but uh
You can have it's like resident evil five. Yeah play it with co-op and have fun with it
And I I think the mechanics are better in two compared to one
But I always felt like one nailed the atmosphere better than two. Yeah, I would say so. Um
It is it's also got a like two and three play excellently on pc. The first one a little wonky still doable
but um
Yeah, they're they're both you could definitely tell that two adds on to the first one, you know
um
My complaints are minimal with it play the first two if you have it certainly if you haven't played dead space then
Guys, you can't play dead space one and two
Third one still is all probably get for like nothing. Anyway
Um heart take avatar the last airbender is a show. Love you all. Oh, I agree
Sure, all right
Due to coronavirus rags will have to restrain himself from sniffing all the doggo bums in the foreseeable future
This will be the greatest test of iron will don't worry rags. I will bleach my starfish for your exploration
I I appreciate that immensely but I have been I have been keeping to myself kind of um
I've been kind of keeping indoors as much as I wish I could go out and sniff butts. Uh
Sacrifices must be made for the corona
And that ended with I just bought soma excellent, oh enjoy it savor it
If anyone has not already played the toy story 2 video game for pc, it's actually awesome
It's difficult to get running on modern pc's but for anyone with good technical tisms
I highly recommend level design has metroidvania secret areas with new abilities
Toy story
There's a game called bloody and cruel story of toys
The description is a game about bloody and cruel story of toys
It has it came out march 7th
2018 it has no user reviews
I'll put it on no, I won't it looks like fucking hot garbage
So best impressions from rags and moebles, please for
Uh, i'm getting this emperor emperor emperor's new groove where it says
Kronk pull the lever wrong lever remember that
Yeah, I don't know that I can do her voice though
Uh, how do you feel about that ranks is it possible
You might have to read that again, so I like get it
Um the line or yeah, I guess so they want us to say but she's like kronk pull the lever
And then she's like wrong lever
So that's the best I can do it
All right, so we got those two lines, um
Pull the lever kronk
wrong level
There you go. That wasn't bad. Yeah, there you go
There's your your fucking money's worth out of that puppy right there
I haven't seen that movie in ages
Oh, you know what? I slight tangent
Mascazoro we need to
That's a good fucking movie. I'd like to see what that would be again. I recently rewatched it. It holds up
Antonio hopkirk is is awesome in it
Yeah
um
Rags is a mars sized candy corn is about to hit earth
Uh, the only way to stop it is to let diabeto watch you poop while you have the door open
What I want to know is what would be a beverage of choice as the world meets its sugary doom
Um
Let's see i'm trying to think what would I
What would I
I would have something alcoholic if the world is about to be destroyed. Okay, this will be strange. So, um
Shiner has a seasonal prickly pear
Beer that they make and it's really good. I'd have one of those I guess
I like those it's almost like a cidery strawberry kind of hard thing. I I like it. I think it tastes
I think it tastes good
I'd have one of those
Uh, lovey loads, but this episode is ruined by southpaw's awful mic. Oh
Yeah, it is dude. No wonder nobody listens to your podcast. Oh my god. Yeah. Oh fucking christ
Whoa, that's right. Your mic is terrible though. Fix it
Uh, so am I I agree with the spirit of the question not the wording
Rags is all right. How likely is it? This is from the same person by the way
How likely is it that trump beats biden in the general?
98 plus percent
There you go, uh, give rags these shekels hi evan if you're there
They're glad to be on
Rags you told me you find anime unappealing but you like ghosts in the shell
Would you mind telling us what it is? You find unappealing and why you'd hate it?
Please explain calmly and cover as much ground as you
Can and go into as much detail as you can. Oh my god
Uh, probably won't do that for a super chat
But i'll leave it. I don't like a lot of the tropes in anime the characters the style
I find a lot of time the arts lazy with the way that they don't animate things or reuse stuff
Um, but this applies to the japanese game and this is super subjective by the way, um applies to a lot of japanese games as well
Just the way the characters speak and the writing is and like a lot of the tropes
They just really cringy and off-putting to me
And I don't find them interesting
the
Not quite my thing. I can definitely see why people would like it, you know, but it's just not my thing
And the the animates that I do like like ghosts in the shell and stuff
I like them despite their anime-ness if that makes any sense. Like I don't feel like those are good because they're anime
right, um
There you go
Uh, the future will say what came of this day. Cheers
Cheers
This is uh, this is this that this defap is one one from the books
Just in time to see me through wick. Oh, well, yeah, probably I doubt your shift was longer than from this start
That was this one. This one's been along man
This has been a long man
Assuming people don't automatically assume that 12 hours should be the norm. I'm hoping we don't encourage that kind of wrong thing. Um
Thank you so much for introducing me to buffy i've started binging it all week
I'm I'm infecting three new people as we speak bringy being one of them
Next time he's on he can start sharing his experiences
then uh
And then oh I how much longer
Baller it's two days until bat woman's out. We have to watch two episodes. Oh, yeah. I'm so excited
Apparently our reaction to the next one should be done in the next few days. Uh
If the editor is is to be trusted
That that he dirty australian. No, wait, is he australian? I can't remember now
American right canadian. He's one of the ones he's one of those places on earth. If you guys remember I can't remember
One of them he does a really good job. I I enjoy I love his attitude. It's great. He does a good job
Uh, I see you completed the new rags ai mauler shame what happened
Shit what wait what the rags ai
Did my voice go robot or something? I don't know. Maybe finish the new rags ai
And that'd be pretty fucking laces salt after rags is an ai. I created holy shit
mace is not my clone
Um rags 5.45 or 5.56
Um
So I actually have no guns in 5 5 6
Um, i'm sure they're perfectly fine
Um, I enjoy I I do have one two
I have two guns in 5 4 5 they are a pleasure to shoot. No, I have
Three my bad. I have two ak-74s and I have an ar-15 chambered in it. They are a joy to shoot. It's lovely round
It's not that expensive. It's pretty much the same price as
Most stuff for the most part
Um, it's it's a nice little
quasi conversational thing
Um, you could load them in standard magazines if you don't want to buy um
Magazines specifically for them. I use the asc brand for them and they've been fantastic
um c products for the 7 6 2 by 39 ones, but
I guess I gotta say 5 4 5 because I don't have I haven't really shot 5 5 6, but they're pretty much super close. So, um
They're pretty super close. So
Honestly, just pick whichever one's cheaper
Um, if it if you're getting an ar-15, you're almost certainly gonna have 5 5 6 if you're gonna make a 74
It's almost certainly 5 4 5 but there's not enough of a difference probably to
You know to to towards a huge deal
I'd expect to be different
It ended with hello muesli. Hello
Oh, i'm sure they meant to say hello to you too. I'm sure it was in the in spirit
Uh opens video let's play bloomberg shadow legends vote now for free
bloomberg shadow legend
Uh, please tell me a reply to that one guy's response to you with tldr. He's so dumb and it breaks the boundaries of space and time
I believe that response is unlisted
he um really what so
that was so our
video with tldr got
Responded to by a guy who didn't like our take on his tlj take no tro s take
um
and uh
Yeah, his his response to our response is
Unlisted now, I think I think he wants to just like move forward and away from it. I know I got you
Give me a second. Someone's here
Okay
um
But it was just it was the standard
They came to harass and they they downvoted me massively and it's just they were picking fight. It's just
Yeah, again, everybody be nice to any of these people we cover
Including shamus that wonderful man. He's he's you know, he's making he's doing his
Disms, I guess
Just just like you know, if ever you leave comments, like you're a fucking poopy face
The whole screenshot it and be like look at this kind of active bullying
Look at it
Disgusting. Um, he was upset that he was called a disnoid. I thought that was pretty funny like
Come on
I mean fuck you should see what we were called steering the whole jetty thing, right? Like disnoid. I would have had
Horizon zero dawn is coming to pc also high rags. Also. Have y'all played ori 2 yet? I have have you either of you played it
Oh, I i'm insanely illiterate when it comes to video games and I barely play them so you need to play some more
Uh, it's everything I was looking for it to be as a sequel to ori so far
I need to play more of it once I get some free time plopping around but um, I like it so far
Uh, probably not great
Like the music is fucking fantastic as usual
Graphics are solid mechanics nice and new stuff while also being pretty well balanced so far
But uh, let me we finish it and i'll be able to give I don't know better idea on that one
And uh horizon zero dawn coming to pc. Yeah, that's this uh
I will I will keep the high rags for when he uh when he comes back
What's up filthy boys just saw knives out and it wasn't very good more explicit political bs than tlj
I advise to ignore have a blessed day
Evan
It's yeah, it's like
Politics are really like
It's it's hamfisted. There's a lot of like clunky dialogue in the film
But it's like and there's plot points that don't make any sense
But like there's still a lot of good material inside of it. I like it's one of those films
I think the good outweighs the bad it's it's very flawed though
But I think a lot of it is like there's there's a lot of subjective criticisms that I think
I would hear out like a lot of things which I could get on pretty people's skin and
Fixes just
It's it doesn't fit very well. Yeah, we're gonna um
Check out I I mean, I don't think it's that awful
I I mean I sort of didn't like it when I came out of the theater, but rewatching again is like, you know
This this holds up better than I remember returned
Hello
Hello. Hey, we were discussing knives out and the potential for it to be good. Hopefully yeah
Well, I mean I was movies to be good pretty much for the most part
So I mean i'd rather go and watch a good movie and a bad one
It's a substantial step up from the last jedi. That's for sure
High bar
Also, there was a high rag
Oh, hello to whoever sent the hello to me. Hello
Nani nani friday ifapu sugo mola son kunichwa raguchan goodo nazi vampire doggo
Hello
Hello, hello, hi
Hi rags
Hey mola. Hello southpaw
Hello and evan
Hello and this ends with sandwich fart
Hey
God damn it. I don't imagine sandwiches produce particularly terrifying farts
Well, it depends on how many beans are in them
Beans in your sandwich
New thoughts. I mean, I don't but there's there's uh, there's probably some people that could
Could eat beans with their and their sandwich. Maybe
Uh, would a burrito technically count as a sandwich? No because the no
It wouldn't same thing with like tacos and hot dogs because the bread's connected. It's one piece. It's like it's folded around
Sandwich is two pieces of bread one piece is an island not necessarily
like subs can be
subs can be like
And then still be one piece technically
They could be and if that's the case
Then I would not technically classify them as sandwiches. I would call them sandwiches only for colloquial understanding
I'm, sorry, you were cutting out for me there. Oh, I said I said that if I was if I had a sub sandwich
where
Um, my favorite way to spend a saturday night too
But if I did have a sub sandwich then I would not call I would call it a sandwich
Even if the bread was connected for colloquial understanding reasons
Solely, but I would know in my heart of hearts. It was not technically a sandwich unless like all subs do eventually
They do split in the sub bread like the bread becomes two
pieces proper
That's just your opinion someone said if a gyro is a sandwich then a breeder a gyro is not a sandwich
It's one. It's one piece. I don't know what the bread's called specifically
I I love gyros though
They're fucking delicious
But um, they're they're it's not a not a sandwich. It's one piece of the breading that holds it together
Uh, it is a wrap not a sandwich that is correct. I mean it could be a type of sandwich though
It's kind of like an offshoot of
I would say that they would be in the same like, you know genus. Yes, sir family. Yeah, very closely closely related
But like a hyena is neither is not a dog, right? Well, well, could I say like a burrito is a weird sandwich, maybe
I would say that it would be fair enough to say that a burrito is a weird sandwich
I think that would be I would I would accept it
Okay, a burrito is a weird sandwich. We've we've reached a compromise
Someone is asking the the classic is cereal a soup
Which I don't I think that because someone some people use the temperature thing
Which is bad because like gazpacho is definitely a soup. Yeah, and so you can go cold and still be soup
Correct a soup can go cold and still soup and some soups like gazpacho is supposed to be surf cold. All right there can be
But um, I think it's mostly the the liquid medium that you use, right?
Milk is just milk
I think that probably has something to do with it, right? You actually don't
To put the milk in the cereal
You could actually pour the milk into a glass pour the cereal in a bowl
Take a spoonful of cereal and then take a sip from the glass
And then the cereal no
If you had a pizza
And you took another pizza and put it on top of that other pizza with the bread sides on the outside
And that would be a pizza sandwich that would be a pizza sandwich
However, you could not take a single piece of pizza
And fold it over itself and then consume it
And make a sandwich that would not be a sandwich because the bread that surrounds the inside of the pizza would be connected
Because all things are connected. Well, it could still be a weird kind of sandwich though, right? It would be a weird kind of sandwich
Sure
So there it is. It was actually a sandwich. We would just call it a sandwich
Which it is not but it's still a sandwich because it's a weird kind of sandwich
No
Yes
I don't know about that
Is is a weird kind of sandwich not a sandwich?
No
Uh, because if it was then we'd call it a sandwich
The weird part implies it is similar but different
Someone is asking a chat if I've ever had microwaved cereal. That sounds fucking disgusting. I haven't however
Actually, you know what that could work with some kind of cereals like count chocula
Yeah stuff like that
I bet that could be that could be a that sounds like a
Like like you could have a mug of it when you're camping or something, you know
You heat it up by the fire like a hot cocoa, but it's cereal. It's it's like it's a it's like a hot cocoa soup sort of thing
We have really gone at a tangent with this one haven't we?
Cereal if you like
what
I don't know. Maybe
You found a way to turn a soup into a solid right and then you figured out a way to like fold it over
And then you ate
You like put something in between the hardened soup. Would that be a sandwich?
No only in the most
Only if you're using sandwich as two things that are surrounding another thing, which is a
Overly loose thing right how people would say like
Like um
Like an oreo is a sandwich only in the loosest interpretation of the word, right?
Like you would like if you're with your friends at a party you're like hey end me that cream and chocolate cookie sandwich
Oh oreo, everyone'd be like, yeah, I know what you mean when you call it a sandwich
But if this was like your paper for college, right you wouldn't call it a sandwich
Like this is a like in i'm saying in an academic environment. You wouldn't you wouldn't fuck up the nomenclature that royally, right?
Well depends on the uh the area maybe um in one area
You say sandwich and yeah, sure. Oreo doesn't fit that definition. But in other areas you
Call. Um, uh, like in people in europe call
uh
what the um
Before fries are fries are called chips, right?
Just to save some time. I don't care what the europeans think
Yeah, well, I mean, but i'm still saying that they would call fries chips while we call them fries
You're fine mauler because of brexit. You're no longer european. Oh
All right
That's how it works. I'm still in the european continent though
I don't think so
They seceded from the european continent geographically, all right fine. That's why you're an island
Islands can be a part of a collective
Like an archipelago
Like like a best friend that kind of wants to go further but doesn't want any kind of label
Hey, hey cream sandwiches
What what do you think about ice cream sandwiches?
Love them
Why are they sandwiches though? I had one last week at my grandma's house. But are they sandwiches?
Um again only in that loose
Usage of the word in technicality. Damn if they're called ice cream, you know, like casually. Yeah, sure, right?
They are sandwiches
Only in the most loosest sense of the word if anything you're like symbolic sandwiches. It's literally in the name
It's like it's like saying that plot holes don't affect the plot. All right. Well when I when I get sick
I'm not gonna call up a nurse shark. Okay
Okay
Say what
If I go to the hospital, I hope a nurse shark doesn't come into the room
What the hell is a nurse shark, oh it's nurse it's in the name
Okay. Oh, so you're just hoping that's
Sark that's a nurse
I feel like the point has gone I understood it rags
Well, I'm glad you didn't see you see this is why i'm glad you're not a european mauler. So
That is carrying on though
Um
Goddammit the day i'm about to make a video efap has to happen
I guess i'll catch this one later on moolah. Have a good one you massive high ranks
Hello
Rags I think you're my soul mate. I hate yellow. I like red apple ale. That's enough, right?
I don't know about hating yellow. Yeah, you like yellow particularly fond. Do I yeah the lightsaber color remember?
Oh, yeah
Generally, i'll say I don't really care for yellow
But on lightsabers and cars i'm a fan
Sign me up
Rags we're going to poop with the door open face to face. We like rags
He's a good doggo all the butt scratches for him to paint that patricia
Oh debate I guess but it's deep depate
Oh wait depate that patricia, I guess that's that's the message that
Um, this person's saying they they love you rags and they are going to poop with the door open face to face with you
While I appreciate the butt scratches
I poop alone. It's like a coat that I live by
I'm like a knight
This is my chivalric code
I poop alone
I'm like mr. Incredible
Who works alone?
I poop a lot with poop. Sorry, buddy. Sorry, buddy. I poop alone
Rags isn't a nuz he would be a great one though
Well, you know
Probably
Not that I am or would be but I would be
Rags any reasons for why avatar sucks
I'd really rather not get into it because I don't have that much interest in it
Maybe we'll discuss this at length some other time
Sorry, didn't you say in the previous episode that like you you're sure that maybe the rest of the show is great
But just from the clips that you'd seen it's it looks really terrible
like
Yeah, and people are harassing you over it
Like we don't have to delve into it because I'd rather not reignite this shit show
Sure, right
Expect that what i've seen has been very bad
Maybe the rest is good. Not what i've seen. I don't care about seeing the show. I don't care about the show
If you do more power to you
I don't care
I respect that
I think that's
Hi rags this dosh is for you. Hopefully getting my glock 17 soon much hype. Have a great night everyone
Thanks much. I think you really like it. I really uh, really enjoy mine really enjoy mine. I think it's great
Hard to go wrong with that choice
Uh maul, you should somehow organize a game day on steam
For the original battlefront two of the discord wags can come but he has to sit on my face. Oh
Uh, you drive a hard bargain
Uh, I mean yeah, not not an impossibility. I would have to look into setting it up
Um, I feel like we may have talked about that before the potential for battlefront classic
I always just default to doing like um easier group games players on it like 64. It's probably pretty big I think
Would you consider revisiting major lee's tlj video I think it would be hilarious
Maybe even bring him on for it or have lee or another tlj for another tlj event. Um
so I know why people want us to potentially recover the uh major lee one is because
Do you remember how smug he was about being right about all the narrative choices?
All those things that out flipped on him because of tros
So he's like ray big no one was something that he predicted and it was really clever
It's exactly what it should be and then it's just like the new film's like no
Oh
So does he like the rise of skywalker or hate it I don't know actually I haven't
I don't know if he's made a video about it
Anybody thought that it was like enjoyable. At least I think that's what he tweeted about. Hmm
Um, but yeah, you know we could we could have him guess to check out
Uh, maybe a tros vid. I don't know. He's uh, he's an interesting one. That would be
I guess it depends
Maybe that would be interesting to get a tlj
like
psycho zealot defender
to
We could find common ground and how
terrible
tros is
We're about building bridges here are you fat
One fact the tail spikes on a stegosaurus are called
Thagomizers and there's fossil evidence. There's at least one allosaurus took a direct hit to the crotch from them
Oh, I remember
I remember a gary larson comic he did um
the far side
Where I learned about that's how I learned about the thagomizers
and he had the stegosaurus
with like
uh
It was basically it killed it killed fag the caveman. That's why they call them fagomizers
It's funny that's how I learned but it is quite a I have no idea why they're called fagomizers
It ends with f in the chat for dino bro
F of the chat right in the testes
potentially
Uh, if uncarplots chat green cream into your mouth, would you say oh boy drench my anus in
Soy or cover my weenus with that green creamus
I would probably say cover my weenus in that green creamus
Because if i'm going to be in that scenario
by some astronomical
fluke
of
Rationality i'd be there consenting
So I would want him to put his cream creamus on my weenus
I wish he'd keep it there as compared to a mouth though
Oh
Good old plot people are saying f in the chat. I think I think that the stream might be dead. No, it's for dino bro
Oh it is
Defap quote without context. I got you starting in february
I'd spend the next few months in an orgasmic euphoria. That's from tonaled apparently
Oh
Yeah, he was talking about all the games
Oh, yeah
I remember that one good times
I don't remember neat pic though
It's okay. I don't videos are much more memorable than mine
You talk a lot mauler. How dare you? How would you even know that it's not like we do this 10 hours per week?
We fucking run our mouths so much
What are your thoughts on film crit hulks why it works star wars 1977 video also
How would you deliver a pizza to a place be creative if you can?
What what how would I deliver a pizza to a place I guess I would just do the standard way
I don't know. Why would I?
Well, why would I want to be creative about delivering a pizza drones
I'd say drones are millions of you know
Those those little shoots that people can put like messages in bottles and you put the pizza
In like a pizza shaped thing that protects it and it goes through a pizza shoot and it just goes
Oh
Were you like roll it up roll up the pizza? Maybe that'll ruin it though. So it just it's just a really big tube
You could
Yeah, maybe
What if you used it as like a frisbee
He threw the piece
He shot it out like it
Oh, yeah, and obviously uh, no i've not seen that uh video by film crit hulk, but um, hopefully it's good
I subscribed to this panel and I saw the video. I just I like I had I saw like two minutes of it
I I just didn't watch all of it. It's a it's a long one. But yeah, I like
Stacy like he's a good author. So it's like I I'll watch it eventually
Uh, if you do watch star wars the clone wars, please do watch all of it. I I will try eventually
I'm not against uh getting through rough content to get to good stuff. I just uh got to fit it in some way
Toy story four is awful. It f's up lore and makes every toy story trope into a simplified abomination of itself
What they did to buzz makes me sick to my stomach and every new character is a useless comic relief
I pretty much agree 100 percent
Yeah, man, it hurts to watch
Uh, all your friends are laughing at it
It it really actually makes me sad
Like when I watch it and they're not in the way that it's supposed to you know, like if we're
Sad about witty leaving buzz and everything
But it more just makes me sad from like the meta level of like god this
This series has fallen so hard
Uh and to think like we've seen a lot of like franchises fall recently, right?
Toy story was the one that was
It wasn't perfect. It wasn't bad yet. And now it's bad
All shamus gorman's videos are him being a smug donkey to kids on twitter who thinks shrek is a disney movie
Okay, it's a strange way to sum it up, but all right
Well, if shrek was a disney movie, then he would defend it
regardless
I'm glad to catch efap live. Do you think you'd ever cover channel awesome?
I understand the skits are painful, but I would be curious what you'd have to say also high regs
Hello, so maybe if it's the right video we were planning on checking out that I know i've said this like a million times
Over the past like 10 million years, but the
Supposed to be watching van helsing and then looking at nostalgia critic reviewing van helsing right? That was a thing
Um, he's been reviewing. I don't know
Spiderman movies recently as well a lot of people are upset about some stuff
I was about to say why are you guys going to talk about van helen?
Because we need a reason to talk about van helson
It's van helzing van hestling i'm pretty sure that's how you pronounce
I'm ashamed that I ever ever watched channel awesome. I'm ashamed to have ever watched them
Well, we'll have to do movie homework at some point tell everybody
Everyone has to go watch van helsing before next week or the week after I don't know when we'd organize it
but that's a possibility to cover nostalgia critic as well as
We could ask people. What what do they think is the um
The quintessential nostalgia critic video or one that you think he he fucked up particularly badly about maybe a movie we're familiar with
I don't know don't really I don't follow him enough to know what would be like the one
to cover
I was only going to do the van helson one because it gives us an excuse to watch van helsing, you know
Let's watch Hugh jackman van helsing with his automatic crossbow. That's that's that's life right there. Yeah, boy. Let's do it
Uh
Do do yeah, maybe in the future, uh, I got a massive craving to watch platoon with rags
Hmm haven't seen platoon
It would be a it'd be a first for me
platoon and chill
Brags my daughter is finally coming home from the hospital after four months in the nicu
Uh as one way to celebrate I want to donate a few schmeckles to the show that helped me keep sane over these long months
Thank you
Wow, i'm really glad that your daughter's. All right, and that she's finally out of there
It must have been really harrowing for you, but I guess we're glad we could help
Keep your nerves tempered a bit. That's uh, it's actually really nice to hear really glad to neonatal
uh
And I see because obviously icu is intensive care unit
What do babies are newborn? Yeah neonatal. Oh, yeah. Okay. Oh
Um, yeah, no, excellent. Uh, hope she's doing well and i'm glad you've had fun. The profile name was
Bill builders bungleton by the way
May she have a may she have a healthy and long life
Yeah, all right, just to be clear efap efap hates children. Yes
Oh
Hello i've been playing the mass fact trilogy and i'm wondering which game is your favorite
I love two, but the citadel dlc makes three close to my heart
I like them all
I think
I might say the first one
Is my favorite?
Um, it was one of the first video games that i've ever that I ever played
It was one of the first two that I like owned is mine
um
When I got my xbox 360 years ago
I really
There's a lot of aspects to it that I really enjoy
It has a very adventury kind of feel to it
um
It
And then but then again, there's parts about like two and three that I really like I think
The like the curing the genophage part of mass effect three is always kind of what comes to my mind is the
like
Mass you see mass effect. That's sort of what my brain goes to like morden solace
and the genophage
or where you're talking with um
Garris vicarian
Our weather it's just there's so much in these games so much to do so many missions and the combat and the powers
I I think i'll say the first one overall is my favorite
But they're all great
All right, then
I've never played them. So I have no fucking clue i'm just like what really nope. Oh, well they are
Fantastic love them
Are they better than everything?
No, then why would I play them?
because
you can't
Play
Well, just stop it. You can't
Yeah
Why would I play them? You can't?
You can't play them
Hi rex. Hello. How is the sea virus affecting you all?
Um
My sister and my other sit both my sisters
um who are in
University university currently are both home because their spring breaks are being
Extended by a week and they're doing all their classes are now online
for that time
people are
My my parents all their church stuff
Because they're big into the jesus. Uh, all their church stuff is being
pretty much cancelled too
Uh, the church doors are like open, but there's not going to be I think there's not gonna be like
Mass and stuff
Because they don't want to keep a bunch of people cooped up in the same room next to each other like that
Um, but yeah, it's doing something like that
I have i'm like subscribed to a a church newsletter because i'm like two ladies
And uh, like it's a church that's about five minutes away from my house and they're doing an online
uh
Gathering, I guess
They're not going to be meeting in person. It's just
Yeah
podcast
Possibly i'm not sure
It's like they're gonna live stream from
Maybe the pastor's house. I I don't know
I have
I have the podcast
Yeah
Uh, they're gonna do it because I don't I don't go to church anymore. So
Now I know when I was when I used to be big in the to the jesus
Um when jesus came into my heart
For there was something you you're supposed to go to mass every week
But if you couldn't make it you could like watch it on tv
And that was like an acceptable way to sort of like do it if it was
Corinna and stuff
Were you a catholic?
I was
Okay
Uh, and yeah as for as me no friends or family are infected yet, but I assume that'll change
No, no, no one's infected that I know
And hopefully we're gonna keep it that way good friend of mine knowing that I know
people that I know of
Yes
But not anyone that I know
My mom is immunocompromised because she had to get an ostomy a long time ago
and she has no me
and so
She's my last parent and
really don't want to lose her
some
Yeah, maybe don't everyone just sort of stick to yourselves maybe for a little bit wash your hands
Don't be licking doorknobs
Yeah, the way
Uh, hail don't have anything to do until april because of ye old corona at least now I have to catch up on efap
May the dawn protect the brood
Yes, sir
Uh molar have you seen?
Sweeney todd it's my favorite musical movie
Uh, one of my favorite johnny depp performances every song has purpose in the story. I actually watched that with rags about
Honestly a month ago. It was good. I liked it. I like it too
I like swiney todd
and yeah, the
It's an adaptation right so like all the songs were
originally created for the the play version and tim burton had his way with
Adaptifying it. It was uh, yeah, it's good shit
Uh, I got paid to touch everything in my grocery store yesterday ij kick molar rags make more videos
Uh, you got it that's the plan good thing to get paid for but yeah, you're touching everything. All right
We don't exactly we don't have mr. Evil c virus as they call it now like
Licking doorknobs is illegal on other planets
Are there doorknobs on other planets though
Um, I have no reason to believe that there are doorknobs on other planets so what about laws
What about laws against the indoor?
laws, yeah
as far as I know there's
No, I I have no reason to believe that there are I
I
I don't believe that there are any that seems like that's an assumption
Yeah, i'm assuming it yeah, I don't what have I assumed
You're cutting out for me sorry, never mind what what what did I assume you're you're assuming that uh
There aren't doorknobs or laws on other planets. No, I've said I have no reason to believe that there are
Oh, oh, I got you
So, I don't believe that there are
No, that's totally fine. I mean I apply the same logic to god. So
That poor guy
If up 77 maula becomes the rhino cage of the village hidden in the rhino milk
And ranks becomes the sage of the six tisms also high ranks sage of the six tisms
Okay, I like that hello by the way the sage of the six tisms
It's like sounds like dlc for a game or something
I'm here early to tell you dumbos to well, you know to watch hardcore henry. I got it. I got it
They're always
They're always telling us to watch hardcore henry
In efap 76 at 6 42 19 you read out two of my super chats and misunderstood that they both relate to batwoman
Please revise your answer of super chat too
All right
All right, you have those catalogs and numbered right? Well, they gave me a timestamp. I can use that that is the timestamp
I'm gonna listen to this real quick
All right
The greatest strategy a tragedy in the meantime
Well, I was gonna say you guys can listen to it because the audience will be busy listening to this too
Oh, all right
So we click the link here is the strategy of dark play just the play guess the lies
Uh is that there are so many ways they could have made kate's arc interesting
I mean sure that woman could have worked. Yeah, there's all kinds of cool stuff. They could have done with her
And there's all sorts of cool stuff. They could have done with the characters around her to help influence teach your lessons in some way
But they do not give a fuck
I would love to see a series about a hero who's incompetent and who doesn't care about saving people
The issue is that the show never acknowledges that she's terrible. What are your thoughts on this?
That hero a hero who's incompetent and doesn't care about saving people, uh, the boys
That show has got a lot of characters like that. Well
I think he means like the the show is aware of why does that? Oh the show's aware fucked up reason
So
This is the one about batwoman I guess I I thought that that was answered
What what I I guess I don't quite follow what we didn't understand about it
I he said you misunderstood that they both relate to batwoman, but we're only talking about batwoman aren't we?
Yeah
Let me double check just a second
I should have clarified what the the misunderstanding was exactly rather than just saying you misunderstood
Yeah, because I honestly I don't know it seems like we got it. It was like
Because the awkward thing is now the guy
Well, because this was said early so it's just like it'll probably another one sent it way later about clarifying
To clarify for that password about the other password was just like oh
Poor guy. I had a timestamp that he actually said Jesus like he cares about the answer. Oh
Yeah, I just I don't know I feel like we understood it but
Perhaps I missed something. Yeah, I'm pretty sure that we
Do talk about batwoman there
I guess maybe we need more clarification, but that's what it sounds like we're talking about. Yeah
China is blaming the u.s. China is blaming the u.s.
I
Sounds like china
I haven't heard of this coronia virus
maula
I don't I don't think it's the yah
But but but but you know can't know for sure until it's all over and they find out exactly what the cause is
Y'all could be behind it all. Um, I hear by request that you get a pet feline and name it meowler
Then when dealing with response videos you take people to task for talking bad about your cat. That's a pronunciation joke, you see
Yeah, a lot of people call me maula
um
I was about to say
I think that's what the guy who uh responded to your response to the efap called you he called you like meowler or something like that
It's mauler
well, I guess it's because of the capital l they assume that it's maula but
um, yeah, I don't know stream
Any of your videos like it's not hard
Say my name at the beginning of all my critique ones, but not the rage ones. Maybe that's the confusion
Well, we have a word
mall
that's spelled
maul
You just added an er two on it on it. You know, like one who malls is a mauler
It's I don't know man
But I capitalized the l so it looks like mauler get it mauler mauler
But maul is ma oh
You saying the ma you would still be ma
I guess I guess so. How would you guys pronounce ma you? Well, I don't know because in in warhammer the tau
It's pronounced tau, but they're ta you
That would be mauler
Not meow meow
ler
There's no e in that mall except that one
Um
I just finished watching your amnesia versus summer series and it was fantastic
Know that your hard work is appreciated by many people you are still wrong on the expanse though, but we still love you very well
Uh, oh, i'm glad you enjoyed it more stuff is on the way and who knows maybe frictional's new project will
Bring my video game critique stuff out of retirement
Um
Or perceived retirement, uh, let's put let's all put our hands together and pray the corona away
I mean if it works. Yeah, man fucking do it. We don't need no hospitals. I'm desperate. Let's do it fucking dear
Uh
What half or
I have neutral feelings about efaps opinions odd ava
I think
I think that was supposed to be something else. But uh
avatar, maybe yes
Unless they're talking about
Uh
He that's a that's a wally reference
it is
It's a childish movie because it's animated
Oh
Examples of good prequels. I like better call soul
Yeah, um
I don't know about that. I like I don't know about this show. I mean, I liked what I saw. I just got a hold of it
It's pretty good, uh, I mean, I don't know how long how like how many seasons you watch but it's uh
Better with each season in my opinion
Yeah examples of good prequels other than this like i'd have to i'd have a look around
Examples of good prequels. Mm-hmm. Well solo obviously
Well, I didn't want to mention the god tier obviously. Yeah. Well, so like mortal tier let's let's
Chill out. Um, I yeah, someone's got a sense out of the pyramid. Um
good prequels
Um
Hmm
Onto the list. All is the great and the powerful the first purge bumblebee bambi 2
Another part of the hidden forest
No, bambi 2 is
It's a midquel actually it takes place in the middle of
The of the movie of a bambi takes place during his
his fond
Hang on what about um
Lion king one and a half so I don't care for a temple of doom, but
Well, and a lot people like it. So
Is that a prequel
Yeah, it took place a year before raiders. Yeah. All right. It came out after raiders
Yeah, that's a good prequel then
Um
I mean, I don't agree but like I mean i'm oh you don't like it's good
I'm not a fan of it. No, I
Sorry, so
Wow, hang on. I've got him
Oh, he's got the covet 19
Sorry, jesus christ
Um, so no I think that um, oh my god, I just swallowed spit just dude
I swallowed spit all the time
Like
Get some coffin done while mute clean that butthole you can come right back
Yep. Yep. Okay. All right. So my thing with with indiana is I think that like
that character works best
when um
When the characters around him
Are like really interesting or there's like this creative dynamic that he has like with marion
with sala with mal
with his dad, you know, but
I just don't care about either willy or um
short round in temple
was just
racist, um
Yeah, both. Yeah, it is racist and sexist sexist. He only likes that one man double whammy
No, I I hated all the villains too because they weren't white
Yeah, yeah, I think that's exactly it
You will go to Bangkok palace
And chat i'm fine i'm fine. I was just choking on spit god damn it
You thought about it was lightyear. Um, and then he's crying
Yeah, I know
um
But yeah, like my my I have a lot of issues with temple of doom from like
I'd have to like really re-watch it and
There's a possibility that um, I could maybe
With like with fresh eyes. I could enjoy it more but
um
I don't like it all that much
But I could be wrong. I'm going to just say like it could just be a
Subjectively, I hate it years. It would be worth the rewatch. It'd be objectively fine. Yeah after we watch
cats
Of course
Uh wonder woman from 2017 is technically a prequel to bvs and
That's okay until the third act
I
Yeah, the first avenger
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, if we if um captain marvel is a prequel right then the first avenger would would fit the bill
Um captain america at the second avenger
Red dragon is a pretty decent prequel. I mean not sequel red dragon was a prequel to sounds of the lambs
It was and anthony hawkins was really pushing it in that one
Trying to you know, he's just too he's too old
But uh, just so awesome as hell, but what can you do?
Okay, the shell arise was all right
So stay safe you massives gotta go to work will do
You
Um, I haven't checked it out yet because i'm very behind on games in general
He hasn't played mass effect. Yeah, I see
Uh, hey moron rags if you're watching the clone wars, I would suggest watching the stuff with darth maul in season four and five
Five
Here he's a good guy
Yeah
I um, I actually haven't watched through all of clone wars, but I did skip to the darth maul episodes and like them quite a bit
He was in uh, he was in solo star war story. Oh, he was so good in solo a solo story
The way that he menacingly activates his lightsaber
My favorite part was when he turned it back off again menacingly
Yeah, yeah, I like it how he sat
So
Buzz is literally suppressive for someone with no butt
Oh, yeah, yeah, he's got a fake butt
um
So to get around I guess the weird filter that says buzz is literally re plus arded
In toy story four. Yes
He is very much
He is urging on the levels of mentally deficient
Uh, he is hoping for tom hanks and his wife's recovery. Absolutely
Yes, we'd go very
I actually had the virus and it's rough better now because i'm a healthy strapping sexy young lad
But please y'all do be careful on a different note. Please rip this movie a new high rags asshole
Hi
I would not let toy story four anywhere near my asshole
It would make for a very pain
Okay
I'm, sorry. It'd make for what?
A very painful suppository. I think is what it's called
And the next one says fix your mic southpours kind of
Oh, yeah, I didn't know that that was a problem. That's a problem. Shit. Mm
I should I should I should definitely fix my mic and
Wash your hands clean your butt hole fix your mic
Do not get the corona
Overly sarcastic productions has my favorite description of uh avatar the james cameron one
The movie isn't made three billion dollars, but you can't quote a single line from
Um, i'm, sorry say what avatar what we have to get the unobtanium that's probably a line, right? I just remember unobtanium
Hold up, um, uh
I remember you've seen the corporate guys like hitting the gulf ball into the can and then sogrini weaver kicks it out of the way and says
That's what I remember. That's the line
Obtanium okay, because that was hilarious that they called it that
Uh
A line
I
Am really I cannot
That movie was insanely huge and I cannot remember a line from it
Is the sogrini weaver
She says like she wanted samples from that like tree that at the end that they go to like
Try to like resurrect her or something like that. And then she says like I need samples when they're coming through
Forgot it's a line
It's it's no I see you from that star wars gill apparently that's a line. I hope we did it. I see you
Only took all of us together, but we did it
This movie it's intensive care unit. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I have to read this one out. They didn't even have a word
Sorry, you kind of you didn't have a word either
They didn't even have a word for lie
Oh
Oh, they're so fucking pure there's so all the all these fucking savages living in the woods. They're so pure they're so perfect
Fuck you
They don't even know what a lie is the concept of dishonesty
Most people do nothing wrong with calling it an obtanium. It's very obviously a placeholder name. That's why it's bad
It's a very valuable thing they would have a name for we have we have a name for fagomizer
We we don't like yeah, like it's like there
it's it's horribly named because it makes you think that the people who named it in the first place were like
I don't know. This is going to be an important resource to some other people that they shouldn't get because it'll be
pilfering a
natural reason, you know, like
It's a it's mechanically named by the people for the thing that it is in the film if you know what I mean
It's like that's really stupid. The whole point of the they want the point of the film is for them to obtain it
But like it's you know, it's you know, it's like it's like a sacred resource
You're not supposed to it's the cold it unobtanium. It's like oh
It it reminds me of there being a character in the last jedi whose name is
We do literally the master code breaker
I don't know if it's all these referred to to us
The other guy's name is literally don't join like dj stands for don't join. It's like wow
Yeah, it's subtle to me. They'd listen to him
This sounds it's it's like if you were to make a grenade that's very loud. It makes very bright lights
You could call it a flashbang
Or if you were
That's another one that has a man villain who's a man that can turn into a giant bat and then you name to man bat
Or a guy who tells riddles and you call him that's a that's a vampire they can turn into bats
I don't know all of them like in like in van helzing
Well, I mean, hey, I guess that
He turns into thousands of tiny bats
Well, I mean robert patinson's playing batman and he was a vampire before I hope he turns into a bunch of so
What if like in dracula untold he turned into his bat swarm
In a couple of his bats like hit a tree and died or something would he reform?
But with like a missing ear or something where those bats used to be or how does that work?
I don't even know why we're talking about this movie stupid bought a baby yoda cup at disney will
Consider this my penance. Love y'all
Baby yoda cup
I guess they finally go around to marketing for that thing for some reason. They didn't realize how much people would want toys and
Which of it?
I bought a baby yoda cup
Go forth my tism and send
Raggle fraggle
Yo
All says I imagine exorcists have
A booming business in that universe that the toy burnings and the seeing the toy trying to escape just imagine the hysteria
Oh god, what would that mean if you threw it onto a bonfire and it was just dying but it knew it couldn't move
Oh, yeah at what point would it it just runs away people watch toys burn and stuff like that
Like in red letter media's video where they dunk all those toys and the acid. Yeah, right
Like oh my god. This is a toy story world. That's
Oh, man, they're all permanently like fused together. Oh, they're not even dead
They're all fused together in some fucking rat king kind of
Glue they're like the thing. Yeah
Oh my goodness
Imagine being one of the ones stuck in the middle fucking hell
Uh toy story four gave me the same confused stomach rectal penile fissures that tlj gave me when I saw it
I hate it. I need to see it
Man those rectal penile fissures. Yeah, they're that's some bad stuff, man. I need I need to see it to be
Oh, I need to see it be raped on an altar for my own personal gain have at it fellas. All right
Well, I mean I think that
After everything that we did tonight
This is definitely the toy story episode, isn't it?
Yeah, and hey, you know, maybe this is only the first toy story episode. Maybe there will be more who knows there's a toy story five
dude, this is like
Yeah, it's like the last jedi of
Of toy story. It's one of those things that you could actually produce an abundance of material shredding. It's a bit
Uh every friday a podcast I get it
Efap almost ruined my friendship. I blame jay
Thanks jay jay fuck
That's such a that is so classic jay, isn't it? Isn't that so jay? Oh, it's they're classic jay
Um
Warhammer miniatures alive do unpainted and painted models discriminate against each other. Oh, absolutely. That's like prestige
Yeah, because the toy the toy soldiers were alive
Yeah, they're asking so like a non-painted and painted. Do you think they would be like racist toward each other?
It's like absolutely. Yes, they would be like they display. Oh, no, I think well, that's it's it's war hammer
Everyone's racist
Well, there you go. There'll be even more reason to be racist
Yeah, you don't even have they're already racist
You don't even have different colors on you you piece of shit and you'll be like shut up blob boy
And he's like, oh my god, you didn't let it punch each other
Uh, put googly eyes on a tank kind of become a living toy
Draw a smiley face and then hug it my question
Like okay
What if I what if I took my gun right and attach a pair of googly eyes on it
And I named it shooting McShoot face. Is it sentient now?
He uses it to the highest degree draw smiley face on the floor. How good does earth become a toy?
Um with a kid that finds their dad
And that then plays with it like it's a toy and then kills themselves with it. Would would that make the gun sentient?
It's like I don't understand how that ups my earth one
Well, it's weird you said the floor it's it's dark yeah, the floor is typically attached to earth
I don't know where you live but
Yeah, it's a lot. It's a lot of things going to gravity
Yeah, well, it would I think we've already established like individual things
Even if they're attached to the floor of their own things like woody is attached to the floor regularly, but he's not controlling the earth
Well, it was like it was just so that would apply to your floor thing. Well, no because the floor is like
Is like it could be on earth
No, I could hang on
Why do you do you think floor can only be one thing?
No, it's if it's the earth and it's ground not floor
What like when you go outside you don't have a floor of lots of floors
No, if it's just the dirt if it's the earth it's not floor nope, it's ground
Nope, it could be anything as long as you can walk on it. It could be a floor
I have I
And to respond to that. It's a lower surface
The don't agree with that
Like put your fucking weight around here southpaw they'd agree with me. No, don't do it. It's a lie
What's what's this if you go outside? It's the ground if you're inside. It's the floor
You're right. I know
Yeah
Well, if you had a fucking room in your house that had all grounded it you could still call that the floor
You don't have to not just because you don't say so if you have a patio like a deck a patio
That could be a floor. I don't really I don't care what's casually considered
It could still be considered a floor if it's earth
By people who are wrong. It's the ground. That's how the word could be used
Like you can't have second ground I didn't say that's how everyone uses it that is simply how the word can be
Was it that second crowd
What about second ground, you know, i'm saying that you could have second ground if you're hot
Maybe if you were in a cave, but then you would be underground
Which just proves my point because above you that'd be part of the earth
Anyways, so someone said that
Yeah, that's well that was the obvious question so what's the forest floor rags is that concrete a misnomer no, it's not
The ground
Okay, someone in chat said that the idea is to love the
They should be forested
Therefore well, wait, wait, wait, do they call it that because it's supposed to be covered in leaves and leaves are the floor not the dirt
Do you even where are you going with that
Well the leaves would be the floor it wouldn't be the dirt
But
That doesn't help your point. Anyway, that still helps my point
It's the ground. No because it locks not the
Dark that is the earth
So you'd still still be considered the forest floor
It would just be twigs equals forest floor if I threw it into my room
What about shacks with dirt floors
So see putting smiles and names on it isn't enough you call that the floor but that's the ground
Yeah, whatever. It's already over. I'm sorry
If you don't have a floor in your house, then you're you have ground you call it floor to cheer yourself
Oh god ranks. What do you do about the ground floor? What are you gonna do that?
ground
Oh my god
the ground floor
But yeah, because a lot of people would say this in chat earlier that it's more than just having
A face and a name on a thing you have to love it for it to be a toy or something like that
I don't know if that's a no
Listen, listen, i'm sorry, but in toy story two barbies that are not sold and they're in al's tour. Yeah
It doesn't have to be loved
He was never loved I just like the logic it has no al loved it al loved it
You you have the aliens in the claw machine
What if they brought to life by proxy of that particular brand of doll being loved?
What about that
Fucking strange then
You have like the writers are all at a border be like why the fuck are we trying to figure this shit out?
Let's just make a different story. Yeah, if there's a commercial that displays a toy and children love the toy
It's not the specific one they used in that commercial
It's just the toy almost conceptually and that'll apply to all the toys that exist. Thank you
It's like this. Okay again, it's like this you're not supposed to be thinking about this when you're watching toy story
But toy story four fucked that up
What didn't they ironically say in toy story four why am I alive
Yes, and and you know what happens at the end
They say how she she asks
How am I alive and I think what she says how am I alive and vorki says I don't know which
Which is a very appropriate answer, which makes me wonder why did you include it then? Yeah
Why ask the question if the best answer you had was I don't know
So you see in mystery boxes automatically make me make stories great, you know, it's great writing
Okay
At the same time
I honestly think that it's just something that you shouldn't really try to explore
It really is just best left
Kind of unexplored entirely. It's so weird because you have
The this you'd think this would be the final line. No, no, no toy. I we we're all toys unique beautiful toys
I'll explain everything and then you get how am I alive? I don't know ends the film
Why didn't you end it two sentences earlier would have been a bit more appropriate
Yeah, a new toy teaching the an old toy teaching first off
Why are they letting forky do all this?
There's a retard have one of the other toys talk to her you gotta be so racist that you think that all plastic cutlery
Are just friends with each other
That's a little uh cutlery-ists. Oh fucked up. They all have individual personalities. I mean, come on
Oh
Someone's like what makes you alive rags? I'm like, that's a
Complicated biological question. I just got a notification. This stream has been demonetized. I think we may have said too many coronas
dang
I mean I I love corona and I support no, wait. No, no, I'm supposed to hate it. I hate I
Take I have no strong opinions either way
2020 question mark. I don't know
My favorite beer is corona god you've done it now my corona drinking those
Raccoon car they drive in toy story four is a dead carcass. Um, it's a skunk
No, it's not a carcass. It's not a dead carcass. Yeah. No, it's
Why?
I don't think they would do that. Anyway, like that's just
It took us weeks to hunt the least but we slit and we carved out the inside and covered it over in our seagull
Hang on. Hang on. What if you did take a dead animal and play with it like it was a toy?
I think we mentioned this earlier the guy who said about the flesh thing
Yeah, we were mentioning when you made a toy out of flesh. Yeah
If you made a meat puppet
And like that particular toy would be rotting as the days go by and it's just like
Why why would someone do this to me and the other toys are just like I don't know
I don't know
Well, it's they'd have they treat it like we treat like a small child who's born with like leukemia or something terrible
We're like, why the fuck would this be a thing? You know, like I don't know. Sorry
Just smother it
First you kill it. I can't imagine they'd have to do that with some toys some of them out there, you know, yeah
I mean, what if you had like a corn dog and you used ketchup to make two eyes in a mouth?
Would you have corny with corn dog?
Hang on there's there's an interesting question here. What if it was a taxiderm?
What if it wasn't? Oh my god, you're right taxidermy. It could be preserved and never rot
But
We we're entering disturbing worlds
Yeah
Oh, what if the kid loved the dead pet so much that it came alive
Because it that one is concentrating as a toy. Oh, that's so fucking horrifying
But it would be trapped underground and it couldn't be
Oh, that would be terrifying. Wait, what about those those two toys that you get that you get?
Are they alive from the point three
They exist to be torn to shreds
Oh god, those poor things about this
Alien got fed to skyd in the in the first toy. Why wasn't it happy about that? Wasn't that its whole thing's existence, huh?
Well, I guess not because it was supposed to be on like a car thing. I don't know
Is the coronavirus china's way of stopping bat women
Do you think coronavirus could stop batwoman really
Nothing. How would she be defeated by something so
Nothing because she's insanely good at everything always for whatever reason is needed
Infinite earths was enough to uh, stop
A totally normal person with some inexplicable expertise with these gadgets
Uh versus an army of ghosts a crash test dummy's alive
Yes, definitely hundred percent they're toys. Absolutely. They're getting fucked
From mythbusters live
Gnomes yeah
Remember kids to wash your hands before posting a super chat
We don't want mola to catch the corona gay when reading them. Now, would we?
Yeah, I think he's very considerate
Uh, what do you think ryan johnson or jj abrams could do to completely ruin toy story?
um
Too late. Oh
Yeah, I was gonna say that they'd have to be like, oh damn you someone nuked the place before we even got here
But they could they can carry out nuking, you know
Wait, like are you telling me that ryan johnson and jj abrams didn't write toy story for us?
pseudonyms
Oh, okay. Yeah, all you need to do is just
Just you know, take some things out of their previous movies
You just got to take a character find out what their core trait is make them betray it
And then find out about any will building that's left and destroy that too
maybe tell us that a
Female character is actually a good person all along even though you don't actually earn that
That's a great way to do it. Maybe
bring in
her from the first two movies and completely
Change her design and her personality and make her far more unlikable
Bring in a really annoying new character who orders everyone around and won't tell woody the plan
Then woody tries to save a bunch of toys on his own and that ends up causing the death of those toys
And he should have listened to that woman all along
Well, like instead actually it saves the lives of all the toys, but he gets on my vision. They don't fuck that bit up
They actually make him a villain
Oh
But he's like a not villain so it flips right? Yeah, and it flips back and then it flips back again
What if what if you make woody into someone?
He's a bunch of destroyed toys, right?
And then he becomes like a mad scientist that franken signs them back together
Using techniques that he saw said use
I think there's lots of potential
Let's do this. Let's ruin it
Let's yeah, just run it into the ground
Um are my bad dragons toys? I mean they're they're you know, are they alive?
I hope so
I hope so the stories they could tell
Uh, oi molly you said that you're going to invite project melody to discuss why iron man 3 is kino bar none
So when is this discussion happening? Hey
As soon as she returns my promise
Yeah, I remember you making that promise
No, she just doesn't I don't think she likes me project melody is not into the long from what I can tell but
We shall see
Our model plays alive can they actually fly oh model planes? Um, yeah, they'd be alive
I mean rc's alive. So yeah, I don't see why the model planes wouldn't be
And they can oh, yeah
Interesting. They're flying now
Would all legos be alive in toy story or just the minifigures?
We did kind of go over this if if it's in a pack
There's probably going to be like one sentient mind in there that controls all the pieces
A grave mind and then this is the thing when you have two competing packs put together
I think one will it'll there'll be a battle of wits until one absorbs the other and like a horrific
just mental escapade that
all right, so I think so if you dump all these like
Would be alive and the individual bricks wouldn't unless they were then constructed of something that would be sufficient too
so like if you made
So if you made like that lego bust of yoda, for instance, that's a bit like a build
Or a buildable like lego bb8 that would have sentience. I guess
Oh, what about like a keyboard?
Oh
Like as in the like a piano type keyboard
as a
Oh, yeah
Like a player like a piano keyboard. Yeah
um
Well, I mean like a xylophone wouldn't be sentient. I don't think
Why why do you hate xylophones?
True that I saw it. Evan wasn't there a xylophone in the first three movies at least that is
certainly not a sentient
Maybe in like the background of a shot i'd have to go back and see
I I can almost catch is
And mr. Spell like those are two big ones. They're just yeah, it's like
humanoid
Telephone yeah, it has a face on it, right? Yeah
This is going that takes us back to the hole put a face on a car what happens like
Well, I guess you get the cause right so
Well, okay, what's the role? Okay. Hold on. I only we we we did we bring it up that's like
Uh toy story two shows that there's like a bunch of woody merchandise
Where there's like a head that you can knock teeth out of but that thing isn't sentient
Maybe it is it's just in constant pain. Okay, so
It seems because i'm looking at a picture of toy story one
the
You know one of those?
like like those mcdonald things
where um
Like the the cow says and you pull the thing on the side and it goes
Uh-huh, they have one of those things and they have one of those things in toy story three, but it's not sentient
Story three because in toy story one. There's one of those
It's sentient. I don't know
It's definitely there in toy story three and it's definitely not sentient, uh, but again, maybe
Maybe it is sentient, but we just don't know it because toy stories universe is horrifying because we look at this picture here
If the like let's say the microphone guy didn't have that face on him
Do you think it would still be alive?
Mr. Spell in the face
Because mr. Spell can communicate using its internal voice and the letters. Oh hell
But if the microphone guy didn't have the face
Would it be alive?
Still has a microphone, right?
Ah
Yeah, but that's not that's not a method of communicating. That's because this is this isn't like a microphone like this
That's a microphone that like project make your a voice louder. That's already coming from external. You know, it's already external
He doesn't talk, right?
Uh, not as far as we know. Yeah, he's just constantly smiling
Does it imply something quite horrific to be honest?
He he was he can also pop the microphone out towards people
But that would just make what they say louder it wouldn't actually be his way of communicating dude that face on woody though
Yeah, he's checking out that fucking hot ass
Who will save the day at the end even though he's just a side character
No, I think that he's looking at the troll in the bikini
I mean I got I got a side with rags. I think he's looking at the muscle man
I think he's fucking checking. He's like he's like i've never seen you from this side before
He's discovering something
Because I look at
Sid's toy collection here
and
It's like a you've got a legs a pair legs are attached to a fishing rod a head is just
You have a hand. That's just a hand on a jack in the box
The jack of the box ascension. It's just a hand
I guess I get sign language
And the car is just a car with four legs attached to it
The skateboard, I guess there's a guy in the front of the skateboard
I
Guess it's almost like I have less questions with sid's toys that I do with auntie
So it seems our requirements are it needs a face like that seems to be
A face or a method of communication in some way
Does that not just prove though?
What we're doing is figuring out the ones that can't communicate may very well be alive, but they just can't communicate
Oh that like they're living in some hell like a fucking sheet of paper, but i'm a scream
Well here let's look at this picture. So in this picture, it's a real photo
It's supposed to be a joke thingy, but I don't think that I remember these magnet pen things
Mm-hmm
So I do not think that would be alive because it has no way to create messages itself
It requires somebody else to write messages on it
Mm-hmm
Just like how I
Can operate just yeah the etch a sketch can knob itself and it can make pictures and stuff
But that's that's why I think that if the microphone didn't have the face on it, it would not be alive
What if the fucking jump rope was alive
Well, is there stuff that has a face they just can't talk like, you know, the car with like the arms for wheels like
A jump rope's purpose would be to like get gripped on both
And have the middle part of it smack the ground repeatedly
Have you a fucking nightmare?
Nightmare
So anyway, uh could playing with a toy give it a soul
I I don't think they need to be played with we can confirm that
Stinky Pete
Yeah, uh, well just the the ones on the the this the store shelves that
Still fuck around with stuff, right? The yeah
Um, stinky Pete sound like a euphemism for a poop. Yep. Yeah, it does
It's like a stinky Pete
a decoy deer alive
In this universe they may very well be
The obvious follow-up is our sex dolls alive and that's a yes for sure. Yeah, that's a definite. Yes
There's no way they aren't
What about body pillows
No
You have to ask no method of are all they have no method of
Yeah, a sex toy. Well, I don't I don't like I don't think that a vibrator would be
I don't think that my
I don't think that sex toys would be alive, but I think that like a sex doll would
I I do think yeah, I think it's basically guaranteed that a sex doll would
But if you put well if you put googly eyes and pipe cleaners on a dildo, it could totally be alive
That's true. If you wrap. Yeah, if you if you give arm that you have a big fucking
Flared chance and he's just wobbling around with his ball feet and you just pipe cleaner some
Some arms to the side. I assume that it's a
obvious reasons
What if you made it and it was actually like
It was a female gendered. It was literally just a fucking big ass floppy horse
I
Think
Is that there's just in even in toy story one if it was made
With all the toys there is just a sentient dildo there, but nobody ever draws any attention to that
It's just there and it's just like hanging out and talking to people stuff and like guys
Raw raw. You're late. You there was a person that needed to be roofed by you so far
Wow, raw would have that's really raw. They would have
Fucking hated this hobgoblin that we want. Raw would
Would not have been able to handle it
Raw we really needed you like five hours ago. It would've been great
Toy story could very quickly become horror very easily too
Yeah, yes, saith rogan's sausage party takes place in toy story
I mean, you know, it's reasonable enough can food be a toy. I think so
Yeah, you can play with your food if you
Don't play with your food. We'll come alive and it'll be horrible to cheat it
Horrible to cheat it
Pouring like hot gravy on a potato it's like oh god
It's just it just like gets dissolved in your in the acid in your stomach forever
It's turned into shit
And when the shit finally comes out it's like I hate you
You
What you've done to me
Toy story three was a near perfect film kind of symbolized the end of my childhood to me in a way
Came out of the beginning of my teens
I loved toy story all my life since I was a mere Caesar salad and they fucked it up, too
Because that's from salad king. Yeah, sorry. Sorry about that. You know, that's the way it goes for everything pretty much
Um, a lot of cartoons were made to sell toys
Uh
Yeah, like, you know commercialization of everything, you know to a degree
As long as this paper is being served outside of just promoting merchandise it's like yeah
Guys why are we talking about toy story four quickly google's upcoming disney releases the live action remake of mulan is coming out
No one's gonna see that
No, it's not. No, it's not because they got the
Reverse no one's still no one's gonna see when it finally comes out
That ain't happening. Ooh that film
Hey rags
Hey, sorry to take up efaps time on this but in regards to the last two vampire streams that got cut
Will the super chats be read in the future?
Yes, they will
If there's anything we know
It's it's about reading overflows. Isn't that right rags?
All about it also I found a better beer related name for coronavirus guinness the menace
Yeah, that's all right. All right. Yeah, I like that
Good kylo kill grievous with how competent incompetent he is
Um, oh
I feel like grievous
Wait, which one with how competent incompetent who was with how competent kylo is i'm assuming they're talking
Oh
I I think that grievous's helicopter blade maneuver would defeat pretty much anyone that
Then again kylo is that the force while grievous does not?
True true. He has it in select moments. So I think he would he would just be like, you know
I don't need it right now. Just throw all your lightsabers at kylo grievous. You'll get him with one of them
Um, howdly doodly ragarino
Howdly doodly doodly
Hello mauler you marvelous massive. Hello
Uh, you guys have all really inspired me to think more critically stay epic use celestial massives. Also, howdy rags
Hello
Efap 76 at 620 27 at half speed I dare you this is the last time I do this I swear
Okay
Do we have any mods? We've got a we've got thought bots in the chat
Who here?
They might all be sleeping at this point
Damn
Well, yeah, we'll keep an eye on it see if um
Do you able to pull up chat rags just to knock them down a bit if they're there
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can actually I have the power
I got six 20 27
All right
Oh, I see what's happening we played
Quarter speed tonaled at half speed on efap and now he wants me to play that at half speed
That's like an but that's eight speeds. So we would be playing it at one sixteenth speed
Well, I guess I can look at that point
Thanks
Yeah, it's kind of scary it sounds like an alien
Oh
It sounds like a whale
Um clench your asshole it's coming you gotta give him some time
Oh my god
That is
Oh
Glad you guys are all right was worried efap would be cancelled due to coronavirus concerns
I mean if anything we should be all right, right because we're
We're hunkered down in efap. Yeah, right hq
corona free
Uh
So reaction saw your reaction to the fate of cthulu on twitter a while back you might like beyond the pale rpg
It's fantasy noir with some cosmic horror made by someone who actually gives a hoot about the genre
Fair enough. Oh my god
Yeah, um that adaptation looked horrendous
So our sex toys alive in the toy store universe a lot of people wanted to ask this we've got another two coming up
sex
Like on top of that one and like three other ones we've had everybody needs to know the answer is yes
What we said? Yeah, what we said before?
sex
Like dildos. No vibrators. No, unless there's a smiley face on them
Yeah, there's gotta be some
Google yeah, that's around it
Then you've got a toy named cocky or something. I don't know
dickie woody
Thumper
Um
Oh god, no the gaze the gaze ah they use my bat signal my bat signal also that was tone at 132 speed by the way
Oh apparently that's what we just had 132
Um, oh wow, hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Maybe if you put googly eyes on like a flashlight it could be called cunty
I think so that works
Have you seen little potatoes new video on efap i've uh logged in a bunch of extra ones we're gonna have to do a
efap memes mini soon, but uh
A lot of them have copyright isms
So i'm gonna have to look out and hope we get it past uh copy tisms. I could do with the last one
Yes, me and rags will have to set that up
soon enough
Mola, I always wanted to do a long-form video essay and you inspired me a lot working on a review analysis series of pt
silent hills and making real progress
Um, i'm also an aspiring writer and voice actor
excellent
A jack of several trades you might even say
do good luck
Big question our sex toys alive. Yes
Well, as we as we said as we made, you know, we we've given the specifications
We've made it very clear and it's definitively the toy story lore
If if a spork can be made alive a sex toy can be made alive. Okay
I'll blow up dolls in toy story sentient. That's a yes
Uh, is each lego sentient or just the final product? I think we said it was the uh, the people probably the final product
But the people yes
Yeah, ask quinton
Yeah, quinton would know whether or not the sex doll would be sentient. You could ask him
Watch the toy story black friday reel
What's that from like is that one of the movies or is that separate
The what say that again the toy story black friday reel
Uh, let's see
Um
All right
So it seems here that the black friday reel is an infamous storyboard reel on the pixar movie toy story
Which nearly resulted in the film being canceled after being shown on november 19th
1993
um
The only bit shown in full was an alternate take on how buzz got knocked out of the window
Although the documentary black friday the toy story you never saw showed two other snippets
Showing slinky attempting to get up onto the bed as well as what was presumably an alternate take of the birthday scene
The sing the scene alongside most of the original storyline was inspired by the then disney chairman
Jeffrey katzenberg's demand that the movie have a more adult cynical edge to it
This likewise made woody out to be a callous jerk who let his role of leadership get to his head and treat the toys
He lured it over very harshly
When the scene was shown in 1993 to various studio execs alongside the original reel roi e disney
And other disney heads were disgusted with the result
And john lasseter felt embarrassed throughout the whole thing because of how extremely unhappy
Unsympathetic and mean the characters were
This resulted in disney nearly shutting down the production of toy story with the production team requesting two weeks to make alterations
And do the film they wanted to do
One of the changes was that woody's characterization was significantly softened
So that the audience was sympathized with woody as well as wish for him to not undergo the actions
He took instead of viewing him as an antagonist
Differences
During the birthday scene in the reel rex was even more distraught over the possibility of being replaced
To the extent of clinging to slinky and saying we're doomed in the midst of sobs
Causing woody who was still on the bed in a significantly more fed up manner to yell
All right repeatedly as well as saying save your batteries in a significantly more snarky tone
Um in addition with the exception of the specific instance where woody throws buzz out the window
Woody has shown this seems to be constantly sitting on the bed
As well as clearly irritated when slinky is incapable of getting up onto the bed
While in the movie is far more direct interactions with other toys
Even interacting interacting with them on the ground and rarely shown to be on the bed
Uh in this version woody deliberately throws buzz out of the window and callously admits it when accused of such
And clearly has no remorse for his actions believing the world to be of a toy eat toy nature
And even spends his time confidently insulting his toys and clearly not registering that the toys posed a genuine threat to him
Until it was far too late
Even sarcastically asking them what army they possessed when they threatened to throw him off if he didn't willingly get off the bed
Just before sergeant his army men burst out of the container to attack him
And the final version woody knocking buzz out of the window was an accident
He was horrified tried to explain it. But in fact an accident to a disbelieving toys. They didn't believe that
um
Let's see if there's a
Looks like in this version bow peep instead of thinking saying that he was innocent
Uh, she in the black friday reel bow peep not only was she disgusted with woody's actions
She was the first to accuse woody of having deliberately thrown buzz out the window
God
um
Sarge's dialogue was extended in the black friday reel in particular when telling off woody
He finishes his statement about woody not deserving to wear a 10 gallon hat on his pint sized head
Before ordering his men to conduct a search and rescue before woody literally shuts him up mid orders by stuffing him in the armyman canister
While casually and sarcastically saying at ease soldier and his orders when attacking woody
Were extended to be much more strongly worded
Including making explicit references to the concept of taking no prisoners going for the throat and overall outright killing woody
Um
Let's see this sounds actually worse than toy story four
I mean it seemed man. It was going to be dark and cruel and these toys would have been just playing evil to each other
There's some other stuff
Yeah
Yeah, he's like, you know what I love in films is when I don't give a shit about anyone involved in it
I don't care about any of the characters. I like okay. I don't care what happens then fuck it
You're all terrible
It's like a it's like a horror movie where all the characters are terrible and it's like fuck. I'm rooting for the monster
Uh, why is rags getting away with being a cudent?
And
Because I do it better than anyone else he's pretty good at it, you know, and you love it
Sex toy story on pornhub has sentient vibes
So there's a guy in the chat earlier who said jesus christ they literally
Talked about toy story all day. Do you guys know anyone irl who's willing to be that autistic? Okay, first off
I know we also talked about on the internet
We we talked about sandwich
We talked about what was the other tangent that oh, yeah, we talked about how to fix evan's echo
That was uh, that was the thing that we talked about for a while
Learn something. Yeah, we didn't talk about just toy story
So get really it was mostly toy story though. It was mostly toy story. We talked about it a lot
Okay with that i'm about to go all four movies
I'm just saying this is the first time i've seen someone go. Oh my god. They spent talking about toy story. Yeah
We like to talk about movies. Sometimes we like to talk about
One it was four movies, you know
Hey, listen, i'm really sorry
whoever
That you don't have friends to talk about movies with all day on like on your free time
But we do and people like listening to this, I guess
Um, it's almost that if this is autism, I love it
There we go
Um
There's a theory that cid is the garbage man at the beginning of toy story three
Yes, because he's got the uh, the skull thing, right?
Not the connection
Yeah, he kept that one shirt
That long and he still wears it. It could be a different one, but you know, you copy the design over, you know
You never know got a bigger one
Is there toy racism we don't take kindly to you gray army men
Yeah
I don't think so. I mean honestly because they know that they're all kind of at the
Yeah, all of them understand that they basically have no agency over themselves and and at least that way they can't alter themselves
Because they have to be left as they were
So I imagine they would be like well, it's not up to us then again
That's the way it is in real life people don't choose to be black or white or whatever
But you're still a prejudice. So who knows? Maybe I think more highly of toys than people
Disgust, Joe Dyrt has a better story arc than Rey
Literally every character ever has a better story arc than Rey like it's just not a difficult thing. But um
Yeah, I I agree. Uh, what is there to discuss? Um
Is this just this just it's just a unanimously understood thing to be true
Poor Rey
She'll get a trilogy one day and it'll give her a character
Imagine that happened episode 10 11 and 12 was all about Rey and Daisy Ridley came back
But it was like a really amazing team of writers
That ended up being something we thought was good
The comeback story of a lifetime. Yeah, and we're all just like geez actually like interesting. Oh my god
Um, I for one i'm glad ra has been stopped. It's gotten very busy down here a sudden influx of being thrown from roofs
Well, that was from anubis
That is poorly. Yeah, I was gonna say we're all came back in this very stream apparently so
How about that? Oh my god
Got a cold hope it's not corona stay healthy you massifs
Yes, sir
Not corona for you. I'm molar and rags fist time cne fap live. Thank you for the vids
What's your opinion on my favorite films the favorite film the original old boy and then spike lee's bad remake?
Um, I think old boy is awesome. I think the remake was embarrassing to say the least and um
Basically line up with yms on it. His video is pretty good
Takes down the tism while propping up the golden
Everyone should go watch the original old boy stay the hell away from spike lee's one
Love old boy great film
I enjoy larger sized posterias and I speak no dishonesty
My fellow men shant deny that when a woman enters the premise whom hath a thin waistline and presents her large round posterior to
thy face
Thou felith aroused
Wait, do we all agree sir? I agree. Yep, this declaration most earnest, please
Um southpaw love you but invest in a new mic, please
Isp that's the problem. It's not the mic. It's isp. Oh my good Houston improvement
Wow
Fucking kicking you while you're down
Well, I mean if he's already down there
you know
Uh, everything gets the same standards and arguments, but not the last airbender right you're showing your inner ralph rag
Nope, I don't think rag has made a video called old criticisms of
toys rags the cavatar valley doesn't work
Rags did not add a script in edit a video
he
Just shot a live stream. So clear jets
Core thy jets
Okay, how can we go away? We're doing this to toy story for so long. I don't think people have a problem with that
Oh my god
Well, I think oh, okay. Okay in in their defense
We actually substantiated our criticisms of toy story on the stream and because I was deciding to just say it's bad
Yeah on this stream, but previously it's been very vague as to what exactly the problems of toy store for
Also, it's like okay, if I were to say that batwoman is a bad show
People will go like oh, yeah, you're right. But the thing is I don't watch batwoman. I watched the first episode i've
Done it. Oh, well, you gotta see the ratchet myself. You can't say yeah
Exactly. Exactly. And people keep on telling me that i'm straw manning them. It's like, okay, listen, listen, listen
Guitar thing was handled all that right let that go on the record
And i've said that multiple times on the discord server that i've recently left because god damn it's become such an unplug
I want to talk to people now, but
uh
like
I I absolutely believe that there is a factor at play here where
at rags for criticizing something that they really like and it's it's just like
Look, that's one factor. I'm not saying that's the only
People keep on treating me like as if i'm saying that's the only factor when I keep on acknowledging them that sure
Yeah, this could have been handled better by everyone
But no, I mean it's like again rags said hey the show
Might be good like the you know outside the clips that he's seen but he's not interested in seeing
It's like it looks bad from what he's seen that he has said that he said that publicly and people keep on trying to fucking
Grill him over it. It's fucking frustrating
Damn
Sorry, thanks. I guess
Just
Cottage ensues I suppose. I don't know chat chats already getting up uh riled up. Oh, yeah
Yeah, i'm taking the heat this time. That's great
Sure
Um
The guy's monday matt says toy story four is good
Huh, he does
apparently
Wait monday matt praise toy story four am I hearing that right?
mundane matt toy story
Four wouldn't surprise me
Three buck three three buck theater pixie pixar's last sequel is toy story four
Toy story four plot details kind of proved pixar's out of ideas
Who is forky in the toy story four teaser?
Um
Tim allen claims toy story four will tear your heart out
Feminist slam toy story four for not being feminist enough
He's got a lot of videos about toy story but none of them
I mean, I really don't feel like trawling through
Monday matt
Archive of the years on toy story four i'm willing to believe it for now. We will say allegedly
He uh, he thinks he's a good one. I mean, I doubt it would be that controversial to say toy story four is good right now, you know
Allegedly
eligible
and throw the beach
Rags power power pipe your puberty juice into slippery squish mitten
Into my slippery squish mitten. There you go
I
Think that's I think they're referring loosely to sex. I think so too. That's my theory though. You can't have my I approve
I'll make my theory videos
Okay
Uh, they are making a national treasure three rags
Really really I had no idea. I had no idea
I
Can't wait for that series to get ruined
Listen if it no cage no watch
Toy story x night at the museum crossover when
I want to see like toy story and blade runner crossover, okay
That's what we need as a society
I
Stay safe my dudes pro tip if you run out of toilet paper a washcloth will do just wash it after use
Please pass this money over to the absolute rad lad that runs the website
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Um
Oh, we'll probably talk about that again before uh, this stream comes to an end how
Long have we been going paul?
Oh my we'll stay coming up to 10 hours. Okay
Oh my goodness, no wonder I feel so tired
Was there any movie that introduced you to certain fetishes like small soldiers did for me? What?
I'd be curious what fetish that would be
I'm i'm sure that there are just none come to mind
But i'm almost certain that there are
Also, I want to see toy story civil war now
Who would who would the sides be
Seems like most we've had like i've not really spotted anybody defending toy story four in the chat
It's been quite unanimous. I'm actually surprised how well received it is on, you know aggregate sites
Mm-hmm. Like there's gotta be somebody who loves it. Well, I think that
Yeah, this this community is a little bit
I think like this community is overall better with detecting bullshit like this than the average
the thing I I
I don't know man. Um
I mean, it seemed like we were fairly well received for going over in criticism
I mean, yeah, actually we criticized the first three as well. So
Yeah, and I mean we overall said that they're still good. They're just not perfect and we explained
And why we pointed out things that were bad. I mean fucking none of the final payoffs of the
of each of the movies makes sense and
I still consider them good big so
But those movies still love them
But they're flawed it's fine
Now we've been forced to work from home for the foreseeable future because of el corona popped up in my town
But at least I have efap. Oh, there you go
Everybody who's forced to work from home offices
efaps are on the way
van Helsing
totally at some point
Uh, can only certain toys say the n-word
Maybe
Because to them they don't most of the toys don't even like have a race
I guess
Yeah, I guess so their concept of it would be observing that humans have a race
Yeah, like what would the race of the of the toy chair be?
I
Sticks
I guess maybe it's split into like plastics metals and then mixed
Be mixed wood
The wood the wooden ones they're the hated ones
This are the boomers
You're one of them there. They're the boomers. Yeah
You're like a hoop and what a hoop and stick peel
But maybe buddy's the hoop in this
You must play with your hoop and stick
Um
We're not aiming for the truck buzz light year 2001 september 11th, oh my gosh
Okay
You know
I have a question. Can I can I bring up the forbidden one because he reviewed toy story four and had a fucking hilarious
Take all right. So what can I bring up the forbidden one regarding toy story four?
Yeah, you can talk about hitler
I mean I was I was talking about jared, but
Yeah, he's he's worse he's definitely worse than gay
Um
Well, apparently he made a toy story for review
Where he said that the movie is racist against white people because he's
White and he says that he's trash. And so toy story four is saying that white people are trash
Oh forky's not here to fucking person
Yeah
I don't know if i'd go that far
There's uh quite a video which is not up anymore for good reason
Um, uh, you don't need toilet paper if you poop with the door open is that is that true right you confirm
That
You do need toilet paper
Oh
I was just I was just curious because like it sounded so nonsensical to me. I thought that maybe it's something that I just don't
Know about open door. No toilet paper. I don't know
Uh, anyone interested in reading my new book, it's about a journey of self-reflection moving forward and calming racial tensions
It's called inwards onwards and n-words
It's under my pen name dildus dongers
Legos would be trans toys because you can change their parts
Can you change all parts for all toys technically
Yeah, well, that's what sid did
Potato head
It was so then here's a question if legos are sentient so
Every part of a minifigure is removable and that means like the head would be so like
Yours basically function the same way as like mr. Potato head
Whereas like you can you can take off their limbs and they're still able to control their limbs
Move ahead from a lego minifigure's body
What happens if you put that head on a different like body and everything like
If you switch heads on like two different minifigures bodies
Is it a freaky friday thing?
like
That would be the happy child vision. I think the the more adult one would be like screaming lots of screaming
Mango says in the forest south west band from the server. We're talking about
But i'm not on the left
Oh
Oh, there you go
Also, I can't I can't ban someone that's not on there
Yeah
You can't fire me. I quit exactly. That's my
I'd see it in general about life
About life, oh no, yeah
Uh, you can't kill me I kill myself
I
Person who asked if i've read out your chats yet. They are on the way. I haven't come to them yet
What has more watch time mauler or mooler?
Uh, I haven't checked but I would assume actually, I don't know
That's a good question. I don't I'd have to have a look
Are they mooler right? I would think it would have to be mooler. This makes the most sense
Or does it plenty of dreams so like at least three or four
But the thing is all of the watch time from live viewers counts toward the mooler channel, isn't it? I wonder if that's significant too
Oh, yeah, I don't know. Um, there's a good chance it could actually be either of them. I could see an argument for either one
Uh sex toys would have a gender I suppose possibly to discuss it
But here's the cells up my asshole
I mean we we would we would think that a dildo would be male
But we live in 2020 now where apparently women can have penises, too. So
Uh toy story four needs only one criticism it has no reason to exist
Uh
I don't know about that. I mean like narratively
criticism
I think it could have existed, you know, and yeah, thanks. Speaking to me it too didn't need to exist
I'm glad it came to a break. Yeah, I don't like that
No, it didn't need to exist. Like I don't feel like that would
Hold up if we applied that equally to everything else. I mean, why do movies need to exist at that point? I just don't like
That kind of empire strikes back didn't need to exist star wars could have just been a sin
It's a weak argument
In civil war zemo's plan is objectively poorly written
His plan hinges on security and shield giving him full access to bucky without any identification
Disney posing as um
The guy was supposed to be there
The guy's body is in his hotel room. He also has um
face shifting technology, doesn't he
The prosthesis is uh, the you know, not not he's obviously zemo when he's talking to bucky, but I mean
There's a chance he could have used that to get past the identification portion of the building. I don't know
We don't even I don't know he does the poweritism too where it shuts off like access and everything and he gets him
He's a part of echo scorpion, right? So like there's a lot of things zemo has the power to do
Uh to get past those security protocols if you will
Very in the know
So, um, I mean I think we could have appreciated seeing a scene where they show us how he gets past them
But there's a lot of things to uh infer for how he could have done it
Um, especially with this the space age tech they have in that fucking movie
Um
And to follow up in civil war character motivations to go with the accords are forced because it's not established what the accords would have done
Different had they been in place
It doesn't you don't need to know the specifics because it's a request from the combination of is it like 112 countries or whatever
The point is less so the specific details or at least that that's much more the point for cap side
But the side for siding with the accords is okay planet earth is asking us
Uh to work with them instead of in in spite of whatever they think
And we're going to accept. Um
Because that's what heroes do that they're essentially becoming police
Point to cap that the details can be changed. Yes
um
But cap is like no under no circumstances can any like governments
Have control over where we go or what we do because
Of what's happened with hydra and shield
Like it makes sense to me character wise that you would do that
But simultaneously he's basically saying like no willed
I know better than you as to where I should be going and who I should be saving which I think he thinks that's
Something he believes in which he's probably right by the way. He has a pretty good
pretty good heart
It's just that um, it's not too pragmatic and you basically are forced to become a vigilante
And so you're fighting against the very people you're trying to protect
Um very complicated issues and you can tell that most of the people who side with the accords are doing it
Because this is like a fundamental that was always going to be pressed on them eventually
Yeah
They need to do way
insane mother
They need to do way in stain mother. No idea what that is. Uh, who killed their babby? How was babby formed way in stay?
Oh
Because the baby can't fight back. Okay. Yeah
Southpaw for fuck's sake your mic is worse than rags's take on tla
Very clever
Thanks
Who's excited for toy story 2049? Oh my god, this is kind of what I was joking about not that long ago
It's a story about a toy who thinks he's human and then it turns out he's just a toy
What if there was actually a human that turns out to be a toy
Like a sex doll or something
Like what was like like a what a what a what a reveal that would be
You're a sex doll. You're like, oh
It's like you have a human character you think and it turns out the end it's a sex robot
Civil war is good. That means that is bad. No, I like civil war quite a bit actually
It's a great film do toys have wars do army toys constantly fight each other
No, I don't I don't think
That would be the case, right? Why would army toys?
Do they just oh, I guess that's tied to the fact that
They sort of follow what they they they kind of built
I mean, it's just that weird thing that he was built from things from the trash
Therefore he wants to be in the trash and it's like does that mean that?
I guess that's where this question comes from. Do army toys want to be in wars? We'll do army things. I guess I don't know
It's a weird one peace was never an option
My question is like where are the the tan?
You know with like the little tan army men because there's green and tan army men
There's the tan ones
I do not know
They were killed in the race war air soldiers. Yeah, most likely
Yeah, I guess it's implied
Hello from florida man the
Pre-v
gubernatorial
Loser in my state was just arrested naked in a hotel room with two naked men and a bag of drugs
Oh
Oh, yeah, being being gay is illegal as it should be
that's uh
that's
thing
The bag of drugs as long as it wasn't a bag of gay
Is toy story four even with seeing I never did
um
Now we're seeing really don't probably say no like I don't
if you need a if you're like
Urge of like committing suicide and you really need that final push go for it. I disavow
I vowed this
I vowed this is like an italian. Hey, I vowed this
I rags
Hey
You heard about just some guy
um
That sounds vaguely familiar. I'm not sure. Yeah, i've heard of him
Has it been super test by that before? I'm not sure I I i'm afraid I don't know more than
vaguely
Recognizing. Let me pull up this channel for you
What did these
Uh eo eliminated more bots than me give him the thanks
Also, my uncle unironically paid several hundred dollars to choice
my first name so
Wow
Oh, that was when we're saying change his name to chadmore
Like no, I gotta keep gotta keep james because apparently his uncle paid hundreds of dollars to get it to be james
Wow, you paid hundreds of dollars to pick james
Why didn't you go with also a giant peach get it
James and the large fruit
Rags i'm currently waiting for my cc license to come in the mail and i'm thinking of getting a sig but what do you recommend?
I have I carry either lock 26 or a glock 17
26 is smaller the two. I love them both quite a bit. I would highly recommend
There are many correct options though get something that fits you or uh your hand. Well
Something you feel you can operate well
Um for me a big factor of it was something that fits in my hand really
so I'd I'd
suggest that
immensely
I like the fact that glocks don't have safeties the safeties between your ears
One less if you need to pull it out and use it god forbid then
That's one less step or one less thing to go wrong to prevent you from using that for its intended purpose if you need to
Protect yourself or someone else. So that is something I don't like about
I got so much shit from one guy because he found out that I have a decocker only uh px4 storm
Saying oh, you don't have a safety weapon. It's like well. Yeah
Fd
I'm a competent
I'm a competent gun owner. I I know what i'm doing
Uh, just listening to you reading andy's lost quote made my eyes tear up
Don't worry, it's totally intact after
You should make me tear up watching that scene and now I feel nothing
N-word n-word n-word. I am drink. I long man. Hi rag
Hello
What up
Uh opinions on some recent films uncut gems. We need to see it. We still haven't yeah, it's on our list
It's good. It's a good film light hours
Liked it. Oh
Yeah, yeah, it was my favorite movie of last year if 1917 isn't
it
and Paris
That's good. I think it's really like grateful. Yeah, um bit of a dice
Really solid first and second act
Yeah, I mean
A couple tis me near the end some of the things but overall still definitely worth a watch. Oh, yeah
Yeah, like i'd say like even though the ending is a bit contrived. It doesn't like ruin
The movie, you know, like yeah, that's like could have been better
Huh and then it says what films do you think it's head out of Ted's like, whoa
I'm angry. 10 out of 10 is perfect. I don't know if i'm aware of one. This is the thing. I often
Flip-flop on this in terms of like sometimes i'll jump to a particular example or sometimes i'll be like I don't know that
There is one usually because that means there is literally no flaw, right? If we're gonna go with 10 out of 10 meaning perfect
like theoretically possible, but I don't know that
There is such a film, um, but if we reframed it to what do you think is the best film?
Uh, what answers do you reckon you guys would have
I was gonna say have you guys seen 12 angry men? Yes
I would call that a perfect film that it all takes place in one room
There's nothing to contradict and like the character development is what drives it. It's it's all fantastic. I don't want to see a good suggestion
It's flaws. So yeah, I think I need someone to present it. Yeah
Hmm
I'm not sure it's like
10 like couldn't let me say like that's a nearly perfect film like even if it's got like one imperfection in it
like should that
Uh really take away. That's that's what I tend to see
Shouldn't we should one imperfection take away from its perfection?
Yes, necessarily. Um, and then yeah, like I said, I would put if if you have something that's almost perfect
I just call it a masterpiece because that's
Probably going to be accurate to the to the author of said thing
Yeah
Like I think that you'd have a masterpiece that's got like a couple of tiny tiny little flaws
but then if
Literally perfect then yeah, you reserve the word perfect for that
I would have been put up uh saving private ryan myself as a suggestion. Um
And probably get a storage
Would you say sorry? Yeah, uh Gettysburg 1993 civil war film. That's excellent. See that's good
We're gonna let's see how I'm doing that's that's a pretty consistent movie. That's pretty tightly written got great
Like I don't know about perfect
I
Don't know
What's your favorite animated disney film that wasn't a big success mine's treasure planet
Right
Yeah, I think mine was so fucking tired i've been up since talking ages I got to get up early on fridays, um
Um, yeah, probably black cauldron or treasure planet. I would go with black cauldron
I don't know how well the rescuers down under is but a lot of people don't know about that movie
I think I love the rescuers down under. Oh, what about the great mouse detective?
I like that movie. There's I
I'm mixed on it. I don't like I like it as much but I did grow up that one too
awesome
Southpaw are you a left-handed boxer?
um
technically not a boxer but I
Uh, I take krav maga classes in which boxing is a part of
The mash of different fighting styles martial arts. So and yeah i'm left-handed
All right, um
Hey, i've been a fan from the start
I'd like to thank you for a fan the fantastic thing that is efap and the recommendations just finished buffy
And if you could thank wolf for recommending the expanse. Yeah, no problem
I'm glad you're enjoying both
Or have enjoyed both rather
Southpaw thoughts on link being right-handed in breath of the wild. I think it's a shame link is the left-handed hero
Um, so I I don't play legend of zelda. I'm over that link is
character, um him being right-handed in call of the wild or sorry breath of the wild
um
again, because I don't play the zelda I
Care, I don't feel like oh, it's erasure. You know, I don't need left-handed representation
In my fiction. It's like even though it's
part of my name
That's something that I strongly identify with that I rely on left-handed characters being visible
Um, but it's an inconsistency nonetheless
It's talking about like some sort of a reboot. So
Yeah
And this one simply says hi ranks
Hello
Sweet mother of god in heaven. It's gender bent brie larson
Oh about famous I guess
I suppose I didn't see it myself. Yeah, that that was the first one sent after we started with shamus
Uh, this says rags i've sent you a message to help in discord. I've had that issue before
I'm assuming let's do the mic. I I did get it. I did pass it along. All right, eventually
so it's something to take a look at as we uh
That he can try out we'll send it again later for him
I have always considered everyone on efap smart aside from rags
Well, I guess he thinks you're hyper intelligent while the rest of us are just smart I must be super intel
I must be a cut above the rest in terms of my incredible intellect
Uh
Hi rags thoughts on batwoman production getting cancelled by wu flu
Is it possible that we don't get the perfect finale they had planned?
Is that true? Well, it'll just be it'll just be delayed. It will happen
Well our our batwoman is going to get back with sophie
And alice is going to perish in a fire or something and everything's going to be great. Oh, no, it really is
Fuck coronavirus has hit television industry hard and the fallout has only begun dozens of series of halted production or have had this starts delayed
As an outbreak continues and batwoman is one of them. No
Fuck shit
Man well that stinks
Another victim for coronavirus batwoman. I thought she could survive. I thought she would beat it up. Hopefully it's only a delay
I hope so
The stream plan I just filed with youtube lists me rags's is dr. Southpaw
But only one of you first one to kick jay gets to stay in my chat
I mean we pre-kicked him. So don't we all get in he's been he's been key
I'm, sorry. Did that say dr. Southpaw?
Yes
Okay, i'm a doctor now I guess
Own it. No, they're saying you're
More I've had this issue tell even evan to change discord to not pick up desktop under audio settings
We mostly got it I think at this point it's all good
I got there in the end for I just yeah
I'll test it out later
Uh, this is the kind of quality content I come to efap for
See and that could be referring to any of the portions. I'm not even sure
Because all that we did today was high quality
Where are we again? Make sure i'm not
Oh, we're at 10 hours now. Yeah. All right. We're still we're fine fine
Uh even in my e-words
I actually really like toy story four
So i'm looking forward to hearing all of your takes on it and see if my objective opinions of it is lowered
The same way endgame was for me. Well, there you go. Someone did. Yeah like it
We uh, we did not like it. I don't know if that was
I don't know if that was translated
Yeah
Uh, I am so glad I made it to watch rags try to teach evan how to computer
It was entertaining part
Look evan, you should have heard it mauler queued up some some funny music to play along as uh
As rags strike getting you to the fear
You
Wags is best tech support. Hi wagyu. Kick evan. Oh, hello
All right. Don't need to kick him if we fix this mic. It's all good
I can't I can't kick you but I can block you
Can I still hear you if I block you?
Are you sure you're gonna block em and run blocking this user or also remove them from your friends list?
Uh, that sounds like a lot of work
Um
This movie also ruined the boat peep. I used to love her as a little kid now. She's so unlikable. What the fuck happened?
No, she's tough and strong which means you have to adore her
Yeah, um
That's literally the only traits that matter in a woman
Yeah, and they're starting to become this like amorphous blob like all of these modern female characters
They're fitting all of this like
They're all morphing into this one stream. It's like no
Oh, wouldn't it be so great if someone made a video
talk
That issue right of them where that gets brought up
and they in a star wars
Possibly. I mean it'd be awesome if someone did, you know, I think they'd be on or something
I am. Oh, you know
Maybe maybe it could be someone that's in this call right now, right? Yeah
I can do it one of these days. I hate women. I'd love to do it. Yeah
Uh
F in the chat for our fallen brother ra no, he's he's come he comes back in the narrative. He's coming back
Um, i'm on episode 57 can't wait to hear you read this in a month or two. Also. I started watching buffy
Thanks for recommending it. That shit is spreading as of recently
Getting around
hopefully everybody manages to
Get over the first two seasons
Uh, what makes good rugrat?
That's a good question. I think we'll have to ask brown table
Uh rags did you hear about horizon zero dawn coming to pc and ps4 fanboys getting pissed that more people get to enjoy a game
They like also. Hi maula. I did
Uh, I did I plan I do plan to make a video on it
Um the amazing the last few days
I do want to it is on my list of videos. I want to do I could probably do that one pretty quick because it's dog bites
And
Yeah, like i'm i'm all for more platforms for the thing more get it around, you know
Especially being a pc person
I like it when more stuff comes to pc because pc gets to do lots of things that other things don't
You know, that's my controversial opinion for the day
Uh wrong woody is always three-dimensional
Okay, i'm not sure what that specifically referred to I think I think I said that woody was two-dimensional in toy story
And uh, I mean it's a great counter-argument buddy, but no he's I mean they might just be referring to the fact that he's 3-d
Oh
It's so late i'm so tired
Uh
I
I
I
Got you, how could you be tired? This is less than half of the episode 50
Come on. Yeah. Well, it's
I had to wake up. It's like I had to wake up at um
Uh 6 30 in the morning
Mm-hmm. So i've been up since I had the thing where i'd been up for a while and I was like i'll try and sleep
And then for like two hours
I couldn't go to sleep and then I finally went to sleep and it was only an hour before the alarm went off and I was like
Okay
I was at work dealing with
Panic shoppers all day then I came here and i'm still doing this and I have to come back in at six in the morning
And that's three hours from now
so
but i'm
And i'm if you if you want to go sleep go sleep, dude
If I sleep i'm gonna sleep in and so now I have to stay awake i'm committed. Oh
All right. Well, I did. I mean we literally can't go for three hours because we'll be cuffed. So yeah, that should uh
Starbucks is my uh is gonna be my best friend today. So
So, there we go
Random star wars thought darth vader fell to the dark side to prevent a person from dying
Ray just does it and with the light side greetings
Oh with the light side. Um
I mean she's in
Who's shown a vision where she fell to the dark side for some reason?
I don't know what's supposed to make of any of it. That was just emperor pallet teams behind it all
Um
That's kind of confusing looks it says uh darth vader fell to the dark side to prevent a person from dying ray just does it
And with the light side
I mean she like fell to the light side
By the way, I think um, I think I follow that that ray is kind of you have no idea why she does anything
It also ends with greetings rags
Oh, hello
It says ewok rabbit
Was that in reference to the tangerine rabbit that rags was saying hell the teen my v word
Is how we're gonna win this
That's how we're gonna win this not fighting the virus saving all the toilet paper. Yeah
That's a really not smart thing to do from what i've heard, but you know
Uh toy story got last jedi. No actually
Well, I was gonna say that toilet paper has a lot of nutritional value just just eat toilet paper and it'll make
Go away and hey, it'll wipe your butt as you poop it, right?
That's how that works
Great, you can probably even wipe your butt before stuffing it in your mouth, which you know, I really hope that if you're stupid enough
Toilet paper at the store you follow that advice
Um, yeah, I agree with the statement the toy story got the last jedi'd
That's a good descriptor
Yeah, I um 100% agree this denarius face at 123
noise
I I don't know if that's the first or second video. Um shamus. Yeah, that has to be the first video
Thoughts without content are empty
Oh, is he are they referring to bow peep?
Yeah, it's only fair
Um our toys technically immortal
I think so. Yeah, they would definitely qualify as immortal. It's not invincible
So yeah wasn't wasn't the idea in toy story too that hey you can be
For that kind of implies immortality
I mean, yeah, I just I think that there's no reason why
there's no
sense that they're
Degrading like with age as opposed to just things falling off and needing to be tightened up or re-sewn, you know
Um, imagine toys of the caveman, how would they work? We just have like a little rock with a smiley face on it
Just
It reminds me of that time rags when you said, uh, no, I like my rock more you're rock
You're okay
You be quiet new rock no gay
Do you rock
Have you guys like seen that video of like this those uh two indian guys that like get into
Road rage incident and this guy records another guy
like coming up to him and he rolls down his wood no and they're like
uh being
I mean the broken english thing that indians do but also like throwing the word fucking in there like every other word
And it's like like there's one
Fuck me. I fuck you. I fuck you bloody
Oh, I don't know why I just randomly thought of that
Oh a little bonus for the music mutually
I'm glad i'm glad it made some people's loft isms
Uh toy story five rainbow dash and the magic jaw
Rainbow dash one of the ponies, right
I google that. Yeah
I don't know why I know that because I don't even watch that show the one with the rainbow
I know some I got some uh
Some bronies and that i've known for a while
You pick up on a few things from the memes and everything
The porn, of course, you know, you start to learn the names, but never seen the show
What was that
I don't know andy's mom's toys are also called buzz and woody
Get it wait what? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Song of the south won't be on disney plus thoughts
Listen one day we will get to finally see song of the south
And with a special guest star steamboat and they'll be together like they always were meant to be
Zippity-doo-dah zippity-dee-ay
unsweetened tea master race rise up. Oh, there you go ranks. You got support on the unsweetened side
Speaking of sweet tea, I bet
Uncle remus rose fucking name was but he loves sweet tea
My aunt lived in arkansas and she had a yellow toilet in her front yard
Wow
That's just combining a thing that ranks likes and doesn't like all in one
I don't know what I don't wait, which which do I like the yellow?
Oh
Oh, yeah that too
Because I was I thought you're talking about the toilet in arkansas and I don't like one of them
I don't like I don't even know which one you don't think that I like
I enjoy my state and the toilets in it
Let's cut to the chase and start painting it just just why they don't make toilets brown anyway I
Rags ohio is better. It always look clean is what i'm saying
Rags ohio is better than arkansas. Fight me
Oh, i'm sorry. I didn't I I don't think that's true
What is what is the metric here?
amount of coronavirus infected persons. Oh
Ohio has way more than arkansas. Yeah arkansas just automatic wins at that point. I guess
That's a big dubs for arkansas
bleed
Hmm
As a native texan, I happen to like my tea dark bitter and cold
Dark bitter and cold tea. I just don't know why you're drinking tea at that point cold
I like i'm thinking the louiseanne is what I have
I just
Straight up black tea nice and simple
Very refreshing. I drink it cold. I put it in my by the way this uh this yeti here this
Yeti i've had
for
A long time now caused me 50 bucks, but
man
This thing is so good. I use it every day. I don't think i've spent 50 bucks
Any better than I've been buying this yeti this firmest thing
It's always here always here in front of me
At this desk always there for me
I've sucked on this thing a lot. I even got a little metal straws for it from uh, i'm amazon. Hmm
Uh rags, I lived in aldorado for a few months i'm with you on arkansas
Eldorado don't ask why we pronounce it like that. But the town is aldorado aldorado
Eldorado sound cooler
Eldorado
Uh, this is nice to see you now when i'm drunk texas texarkan
Someone's watching this while drunk. All right
Yeah, the rags with the lord zed makes me happy
Oh man, that was one of those toys we we all remember some of the toys we got a lot of use out of
I got a lot of use out of zed man
You're so cool
G'dell ts4's secret relation to lord of the rings
I mean you can draw them. There's gotta be something there you can use the characters every possible
Uh the knight the dragon the king the dog the dinosaur the pig
Get it
This dude has a face. I just want to urinate on
Oh my
Papa ragu, will you tell us a story about your emergency rescue days?
Can I tell you a story about it
Yes, yeah, um, let me
Right now i'm like insanely i've been up i've had a long day
I'm gonna write that down to my note thing to tell an esar story
And I will i'll put that down in my in in my notes. That's blank. Uh
Tell a story about esar
um
For efap esar for efap, huh? Let's see. It looks nice. All right, so
Yeah, i'll have that listed document save jeez that is bright when it's on the screen
um
Save as just notes
I went up since because I every friday in the morning. I I wake up at
6 30
And I do well it doesn't
Carry on
Uh, here's a useful german word perfect for the situation
Fremsham it means embarrassment felt for someone else's actions
Yeah, I feel the Fremsham. Yeah
What's everyone's favorite clean eastward film?
Unforgiven probably
Favorite western might actually be for a few dollars more
I'm afraid that i'm uh, i'm jay and this is innocent since I haven't watched
I've watched a number of them does it count if he's just an actor or does it have to be directed by him?
Um, oh
Oh like directed by clint eastwood. I don't know. I guess if it if it has to be one of his films
Um, I think unforgiven is one of his right he directed that one. I remember
We have a luke say I guess I could answer with grant perino
I'd have to watch some of the older westerns because it's been years so they kind of bleed together
for a
Was it a few dollars more and a fistful of dollars?
A million dollar baby was gonna be my other one, but he directed that as well. So yeah those two I guess
I
What's so also I don't know where rah went he said something about needing the biggest roof for a movie bob
That's where he's gone. He's just been like bringing back the huge roof
Look up joe biden's virtual town hall. It's gold
Go biden's virtual town hall
What i'm sure it is
Um
I'll look into that. Uh after stream, I guess because there's an article and there's lots of
Stuff. I don't know what that's about. It's just it says joe biden goes digital. It could have gone. Uh smoother
I'll be curious to find out the details bugs life and monsters ink did it too
Is that about bringing things to life or
I don't know
I don't know bugs life and monsters ink
What what would those have in common
Fuck I don't know. Sorry super chatter
So what they're asking what do they have in common?
It just says mugs life and monsters ink did it too, but i'm not sure what about
Yeah, um
Bugs life and monsters ink did it too
Do
Have dialogue
Uh, is this british justin beaver? Oh, right. I feel like uh
Someone else compared him to brie larson. There's there's lots of comparisons floating around. He's uh
Interesting interesting man, thank you man to say the least. Uh, would you guys consider toy story four to be the worst pixar movie to date?
Hmm
trying to think of one words
Cars 2 is the only contender that I can pick up
I would say toy story four is worse than that because it fucking assassinates two characters quite thoroughly
I haven't watched every pixar movie to date. So just take it with a grain of salt
Of all the movies that I have seen in in their totality. Okay, all the pixar movies I've seen in full
Toy story four is the
long fucking shot
I don't even think anything comes close. None that i've seen at least
I think it is the worst
Incredibles 2 is not even as bad toy story for an incredible story sucks. Not even close
Yeah, there's stuff to like about incredibles 2 here and there but god damn
It's not through for me at least
Uh, hey remember how woody tells the story how molly always cried until she had bow you think that scene is setting up no
Remembering what it was like to be loved as a child be something for bonnie like she was for molly. Nope
Yeah, I brought it up. I brought it up
And I was thinking about that when I first saw the movie and we brought it up
On movie night on what was it? When did we do the toy story for movie night? Was it uh?
Uh thursday friday
It was the day before yesterday night before yesterday
Thanks for coming up for yesterday. Yeah, we we brought it up as we were watching it. Trust me
Night. It's hard because what time it's
Yeah, it's two in the morning here
20 hours, baby
Forky's pain should be like babu
Hey
Oh damn, I forgot to message earlier. I took off from work earlier to jump into wi-fi smash 20
Staying high and look forward to the coverage later. Those tweets were sad from south for in regards to ts4. Give him my money
Oh
all right, uh
Wait, what did you say about toy story four exactly?
Wait, so repeat that what the super chat said
It just says those tweets were sad from south for in regards to ts4
Oh, okay. Do you want to read them? You can pull them up. Um, I mean I was just curious if you said something
in regards to
Bad the film
I mean, I mean I said I said quite a bit. Let's see. Um, so I
Fuck give me. All right. Give me one second
I have to scroll down my tweets here
Um
Okay, all right, I said toys
because of
bad movie in general
Fucking evil character assassinations and utterly insane contrivances aside the film has
Downright immoral. This is talking about bow peep and gabby gabby specifically
Toy story four regresses or sidelines every character to tell a tale about why loyalty
Is bad and selfishness and entitlement are virtues which flies entirely in the face of the themes of the first three movies
I'm convinced that the people who made it hate
Through three the dark knight rises is an incompetently written film
It's majorly disappointing because of how much it falls short of its predecessors. We should have gotten something in me
Ham is a bad movie really poorly written. It's inoffensive for the most part though and funny
Toy story four is on another level of awfulness and watching it so soon after the original trilogy
But tenfold now this movie has such favorable reception and has won an oscar for best animated film is sickening
The movie is beautifully animated and well edited and there's
It's out 20 minutes from each other in the first hour
The voice acting is really good
It has a gorgeous box, but the contents are utterly lacking. I wish that toy story
Blacklisted from ever writing in hollywood again and then forced to walk 50 miles across lego bricks once a week
Go fuck yourselves pixar and why about your new?
It's failing at the box office. You get what you fucking deserve
That's what I said
Yeah, that about sums it up. I guess that works as a
Yeah, in case anyone's missed a decent portion of this stream. That is how you could sub up toy story four
Yeah
Also the tournament is named cool kids in-house versus 19 i'm not playing sans
But apparently sans is in smash also high rags and someone summon ra
So
Rags
He's sleeping damn might be e-napping I outlasted rags
Once he gets back if he gets back i'll let him know he's missed a high ranks
Maybe he's just afk without announcement. I guess I don't know
Uh southpaw break your mic and make it worse just to piss them off. Oh, no
Wait, what it's from james boy that break your bike just to make it worse and piss them off
Oh
You think like as you're saying that you cut out for me
It's not my mic it's the it's a connection i'm struggling with this on my end
Uh
Here so we can make sure you can see your mic is being weird southpaw. Oh, he knows he knows he's he got it
No, I don't know actually. Oh, you didn't didn't know one has thank you very much
I have not gotten that message a hundred times yet
We're good
uh
Also in the wolf meme catcher bob's theme should have been sonic 2xl theme songs search sonic 2xl fat
supersonic diabetes written all over it
And I could imagine sounds sounds like the title would be rather suitable
um
But yeah, I mean what was bob's theme in that one I'd have to
Southpaw chat is at
Chat gleefully chittering southpaw frit ob tip chat laughing face. Wow
Very funny
You missed a high ranks
Oh hello to whoever it was, but i'm gonna be honest with you. I will not be able to stick around long
Oh, and no, I didn't fall asleep. I I said I needed to go. I needed to go put something up
I'm not sleeping, but I will soon
um
I have been up for like 20 hours. So I will be very soon to sleep up enough
I'm gonna lose consciousness at work
We've I'd say we got about I want to say about a half an hour's worth of
Uh things to get through it. Let's do it. I think I can I think I can do it
I think I can do it. Let's do this, you know, we're gonna get this done. Uh, why can't we get an adult toy story?
We will just let me get the ip the four of us will sort it out once
Adult toy story as in like uh adult toys as in like sex toys. Yeah, let's do it. Why not new ip
adult toy story?
Uh, the kid didn't replace the purple bear thing the parents did and probably to shut the kid up wasn't the kid
Oh about lots of
Yeah, I think that's accurate. Maybe you think also would have taken that into consideration to a degree
But the kid was essentially
Teddy bear well, actually, uh, so the clown that was with him the the clown toy chuckles, uh, I believe he
With lots. Oh and lots. Oh was just like so angry that he didn't want to listen
Which is like I I guess
there so
What is this in toy story three, you remember how sinky pete had a black companion slave joe
What in toy story three, yeah sinky pete
Had a black and black and called slave joe slave joe
sinky pete
Sinky pete
It's like the name of the world the name of a really shitty boat
Yes
sinky
That's even better
Sinky pete, thank you
Uh, is it safe to say woody got luke skywalkers? Oh totally
Yeah, oh he got he got luke skywalker hard
I'm in the worst part is like at least luke skywalker had a redemption arc in the last jedi
toy story
Is toy has woody end where luke's character assassination began?
So there's no fixing it. There's there's not even like a
Redemption, you know what I mean? I'm not saying that like luke's redemption in the last jedi was was well done or anything
fuck no, i'm just saying at least like there was a
And fucking woody's was garbage especially compared to that
Uh
Feel free to push back on against me on that
I mean, I i'm very much in the interest now trying to get through these uh before people die. That's uh,
My new sure goal in life. Um
We may have lost ra but anubis has joined the chat. We got rob back. He's he's gonna arrive soon enough. I think um
Ends indeed justify the memes
Um
I think because we threw up a few memes
What's a favorite fictional setting of yours in spite of a bad underwhelming story dibs on destiny?
Also high rags looking forward to your avatar vid
Oh, no, I don't care that much um
Favorite fictional setting in spite of bad underwhelming story
Supernatural
Yeah, I could agree with that one though that's gonna ruffle some feathers, um
Supernatural's I love supernatural
It's it's such a like fun show, but it's its story is not good
But I really love the lore behind it. I wish that they could make a
Like a one like a solid eight out of ten show with supernatural's lore
I mean i'm i'm gonna go ahead and agree with you on that one and uh
Okay, I wonder I think i've had this take before I pissed people off before that one it's okay
Uh, what about you rags anything come to mind?
I'm, sorry. What was the question? Uh, like fictional worlds that you think sound pretty awesome
It's just that they were sort of held back by bad writing
Oh, um
Uh mortal engines could be cool
It's a really nifty concept, um, that could have been really nifty
Um are held back by bad writing
um
There's probably more that I can't think of at the moment
But someone said game of thrones
Yeah, that counts to a degree yeah
Yeah, so it's an Elysium. Yeah, I can see that
I can agree with altered carbon as well. I wish that show was uh good as it probably could have been
Breaking bad, I mean
That's not a very like that's mostly just our world
Uh, I might say ready player one like i've heard that the novel is better but the movie sucks
And it's just like it's the concept is interesting and it could make for a great film, but just the writing is terrible. So
It's tough when that goes terminator maybe yeah, I think that's a good selection of answers
Um, I am sorry hitler 1945. Yep, what rose him to superiority over gabby gabby
I I just I just love that there's someone in the chat that like thought that rags was saying that gabby gabby was
If anyone ever said that I'd be like, oh well, they're not being literal like it would even matter who i'd just be like
not literal
Uh snape also got punished anyway despite being good
That's true
His story doesn't end kindly
but uh gabbies does
Skip forward five hours and rotten tomatoes is used as an argument. Thank you. Yeah, I know
Yeah
Rags, what would you do if maula gets married to angelina jolie and during the wedding maula grabs your sweet gluteus maximus
And tries to seduce you
I think that this is not the time and place for that. Yeah, even I would be like, you know, that was a mistake
I'd had too much to drink
Uh, you know just
Those wild wild thoughts and actions, you know how they be
You
You see toys don't realize they're a dime a dozen replaceable because they're really a clever metaphor for simps
Well, I mean they're really supposed to be more of a metaphor for like parents
sort of but yeah
In toy story four and that was
So fun to watch
I
Want a scene where the toys go into a garage and this voice from nowhere?
Talks to them and is shown to be the voice of a classic car
The owner wanted such loved that car as a kid giving it life proving adults love toys, too
And then that's the grateful to cars I guess
Oh, yeah, that's what I was gonna say like oh that's gonna set up the toy story cars
And then I just
Cross over with fuck it. Why not? Why not at this point? Just do it. Just kill it
Continue raping the ip for all I care
It's just like necrophilia this point
Okay, I got to the top 24 at my tournament now
It's time to enjoy a real life fap a shower a second and third real life fap then I can watch efap
Wait a minute. I can just watch efap while fapping. I mean, yeah, whatever your preference
is
Uh
God I can't even get half masked with this half massive that we're watching in the video
Yeah, he's not everyone's cup of cold sugarless tea. I'll say that much
I love my cold sugarless tea
So this is one of the delicious
This is one of the guys who read when black panther dipped under 100 on ron tomatoes ron borrowing your staff and your rooftop
brb
He might have been yeah, I remember that shit though
Like as if black panther was the greatest film of all time. It's just like but it's really not
Thanks southpaw for telling me how old the massive is now I know how many stories to climb oh
That's based on age
Okay
That moment when the video under review is so bad even the bots chime in against it
The other bots were like copying comments that were negative about the video and playing them. So it's like
Lots of piss
Those were fun videos to cover because like I knew what was coming at least and so I just knew that you and rajar
And uh, I was just quietly watching and just enjoying the chaos unfold
So
Spiders tell the future bots tell who's a massive
The bots can tell who massives are like some detection kits on them
It's become self-aware
Oh, oh that was probably about the bots
Can I point out he has a framed tlj poster? Yes
A couple of us noticed that unfortunateness, I mean greatness
Uh, get the guy who wrote the pixar noid article on efap
I don't
Yeah
Let's see if he's available I suppose
Let's find out if there's anyone that you guys know of
And to someone that has a connection to anyone at the national review and there you go
Um, oh god, I just joined who is this helium huffing f-word?
Southpaw
That's a good guy. Yeah, he's right. Give him some time. I know his mic's terrible, but he's all right
Yeah, he pulls his weight for the most part. You know, that's a good guy
Morley you massive your spider-man debates were trash adaptation was not the problem with that movie at me on twitter. If you want details, hi rags
We uh, we got like the people that people wanted us to get to talk about spider-man
Hey
But okay. Listen, there is this actual thing I have with swerving homecoming though. That's like
signaling at me
Um
Why does vulture carry a gun?
I hate you
Why does a criminal create
What is it
Yeah
I remember when we were first ever set it up. I'm pretty sure people were like, oh neudrotic and world-class bullshits would be perfect
And you know, we had them on we had the discussion and then we did one with shad. I think it went well
The points were were discussed the whole adaptation thing, you know
Um
But I know a lot of people hate homecoming and far from home for other reasons. That's okay. We uh,
I don't know if we'll be doing another spider-man episode. We did uh, we do three. It was a two
Three was like three. It was three three
The one with nerd rodican world-class bullshitters. Then you did one with shad on homecoming. They needed another shad on far from home
Yeah
For a three ephapsin they weren't particularly great for a lot of people it seems
I think shad did a decent job, but the nerd rock ones so so
Check out the piece mickey devouring vader by deviantart user purple miracle who may be a protg of the spiders because she made it in 2013
Let's see if this up
So this would have been just after uh, disney bought it actually bought in 2012
Yeah, pretty much what happened
I think a lot of people were concerned about what disney might do
Uh, this dude is purposefully picking these ambiguous reviews because they're the only ones he can really win against
I mean he did address. That's the weird thing. He addressed the buzz one and he just said it was a nitpick
And it's crazy because like I I would have probably I'd probably lead with that if I was trying to convince someone that there's something wrong
with toy story four
because the woody one
There's like debate over whether or not it's growth or whether or not it's regression, but the buzz one
I don't think anyone can argue in favor of the buzz one
What can you say it's like oh, he's he's just temporarily idiotic I guess it's like yeah, it's not working
Yeah, it's
Again, it's the whole thing with like, you know, everyone brown table called bruce teleporting to gotham and nitpick. It's like
It's a story
I
Think you needed to find what nitpick means because you just you just leave it vague and nebulous and then everyone's just like
Oh, yeah, it doesn't matter that much. It's like no kind of does explain what you mean by nitpick exactly
You know what? You know what? Palpatine being alive with no explanation. That's a nitpick
because I I say
Whatever problem that you have with a movie that I like. Okay, the amazing sword man two has three villains and none of them get any
uh
Interesting exploration. There's way too many plot threads. Those are just nitpicks
Suicide squad is one of the worst edited movies you've ever seen and it's fucking unwatchable
I'm so tired of it. I'm still tired of nitpicks being like the word just being to see is
Yeah, so there's a separate super chat that like
Response to that one just say yeah, except he doesn't win the argument
most people don't know what a y-wing is
Very true. He doesn't know what a question mark is and I bet he doesn't know what a y-wing is either
I feel like our education system has failed this half massive
Okay, it's not our education it's wait unless the super chatter is british
I guess possibly maybe
I'm not sure he's not in america. That's all I can say shamus is not from america
And I'm very fucking
proud
Uh, what the fuck is a question and how am I supposed to ask one?
Oh
Every single time you pause it looks like he's swallowing a load also fun fact the genre of music the cantina bad plays
At episode four is canonically called jizz music not jazz jizz music
Wait, what?
Sure
Can we get confirmation on that
All right, wikipedia help me out here, let's see figuring dan in the middle
Uh, let's see
Is it called jizz music
Anywhere on
Fucking wikipedia, uh cantina and jizz music
Oh my god, well, I mean
Oh, oh my god, there is a there is a wikipedia
There is a wikipedia article on jizz jizz was an upbeat swinging genre of music. Why would you call it jizz?
Why would you call it stat?
Man well, you know, you gotta respect the boldness of it. All right, that's my take
Um, I have the roof ready mauler unpause the video and send the half massive from whence he came. Oh
Is it hyperbolic to hate anything disney related?
Yes
But they've not been doing great in the past few years now
What's what have they made most recently that is a good tism?
Go I suppose
What sorry
Okay, I suppose. Oh coco
Does infinity war count
I guess
Even though that's like a six out of ten that best I think
Because there's the whole fucking dr. Strange doesn't just use the portal to chop off phantas's head
When they he should know that that's a thing
That's a there's other fairly big issues that I have with that movie what about zootropolis
Oh moana, I don't know if that's I haven't seen that that's good. I like moana
Man incredibles too. Yeah
No, thank you
Yeah, it's a it's a complicated selection from them right now
Uh buzz caught toy dementia between toy story three and four. It makes sense. Yeah, you got old
Got old and he was called he was called a toy too
Damn a different person. Yeah
Makes sense in the toy story fanatical universe. Can you believe that buzz light your action figure?
I'm blinking and tapping my fingers. This is unreal. Is this a dream? Is he serious? This is madness
It's okay. That's the vibe
Title this freeze frame the virgin pixar annoyed
Which one
I think they purposefully chose bow peep in that role because they wanted to go against her previously established personality. They didn't like her
Yeah, I could see that like they wanted to be like look at look at this look at our girl character
We've always had she's awesome
We're just done with jessie though don't see why not
Someone from my work was exposed to the virus. I may be next happy birthday to me. Oh, just stay stay home
Don't touch your face
Yeah
We got rid of this
Everybody was kung flu fight
Good news rags willed health organization said dogs can't get corona
The truth oh
Well, it's all right. We sniffing butts on schedule
little cats
Um
Yeah in the last day glindoor and pen dragon shall wake
And at this side will stand the mighty three the wolf the hound and the long man
Do their banner will flock the fell rhino milkers led by lord shad?
ye
subjectivemen beware
I'm surprised I didn't have a jay leading the the rhino milkers, but all right. Yeah
I guess he would be just one of the rhino milkers
One of the better ones. I imagine the purity is probably pretty high the heisenberg of rhino milk
Uh rags if you haven't already watch gin row the wolf brigade you might like it. I have I have seen it. I did like it
Um odd random fact one of my favorite video games of jonathan davis lead singer of corn is toy story three
In some ways the man is still a kid at heart
Hmm
Uh thoughts on saga thoughts on sargon starship troopers video. I thought it was very interesting
Yeah
See our efap with sargon talking about star here. Yes
Uh, tell me a bit of oh, tell me a bit of what makes buffy good in later episode, please
I'm currently getting angry at how rags poop it is so far. Uh, just finished season two episode 10
So you've got to finish you get up to season two episode 17 and then finish the finale
Those are the two big highlights of season two
It wasn't until finishing season three that fringy was convinced that this show's got got some tisms going for it in a good way
Season three is the first one. That's I would say very good
Season two's got loads of um wonky bad episodes in it and then season one is pretty much all wonky bad
So, um takes his time but um, I think as as buzzax talked to you guys at all about the latest episode
He's been watching a buffy
No, we uh, he he hasn't actually by the way
Yeah, never mind. I was just gonna say he uh, he's uh
Pretty much hooked now when he got to that fifth season
That's why my guys are really looking good. Just saying
I
By the way
To know buzzax is like this really fucking awesome, dude
That is on my podcast sometimes
And uh, don't worry. It's not my mic
podcast
Because you may notice that I don't require an internet connection to be the host of that podcast
now buzzax
And because of my connection doesn't sound as great
But he's a good guy. He's a really really fun guy to hang out with and talk to
Um also someone said uh, can the first two seasons be skipped no
Unfortunately not you need all of it. Just skip seasons. There are skippable episodes. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it at this point
um, unless you've got like a
very specific guide that can get you all the important shit, but um
You need
To get season five you need four you need three you need two you need one like that like for each one and categorically
That's just how it works. Um
though
I would go with episodes one two three
Seven twelve for season one to get you skipped on a big chunk of the really bad episodes, but
I mean ultimately, you know
I'm taking fringy through all of it and it's honestly proving to be possibly better to do it that way
Than skipping with the promise that you know stuff is coming
Just have to believe me. Um, and if I if it ends up disappointing you I would I would apologize profusely but I most people
Uh, once they get to the the quote unquote good stuff will be like, oh shit. This was totally worth it
Just takes some time
Um thoughts on the cat in the hat starring mike myers
The film is dumb, but it's funny. One joke is him holding a gardening hoe and calling it a dirty hoe
All right
Sounds like my kind of comedy
it's uh
The design for mike myers as cat
Hat is significantly less disturbing than the cats and cats at least
Um, I haven't I think I saw it when it came out and i've mostly forgotten it now
I haven't seen it don't care it is
It is
Wow
There'd be downer over here
Maybe it's good. I don't know i'll see it if I mean assuming the humor is amazing
Uh keeping the memory of wolf here blessed be long man
Thank you very much. Uh
Could you have mr. Sunday movies on you use the same editor and he loves tlj
It would be interesting to see you explain objectivity to him. Hi rags. Ooh
I have no idea if he'd be interested. Um, but it's or a possibility
Um, would you go and start donak has to talk to about return to oz with them
They haven't seen it yet and it would be a good way for you to get ralph to try efap
I'm gonna go ahead and guess he probably doesn't like efap at this point, but
I mean if
Yms and I hate everything. I hate everything. That's uh, that makes sense. Um, and ralph would be
On board. I would totally um asked to do that as well as I would see if I could bring ragels with me
Have you seen return to oz rags in a long time? Oh, no
I don't think i've ever seen it. Yeah, that'd be one if I did. It was a long time ago when I was
Very very very young
Hello in the chat that's amazed that we've been streaming for 12 hours have we fuck
Oh my god, all I have to say is first
Hey, we covered two videos
We did cover two videos and we broke down the entire
Is two
And we all we all get in this way we're getting there we go to the
I don't know
It's hard to to know specifically how much you would consider this uh, i'm getting weird grape vibes from you doggo
I think that was about the weird sandwich
Yep, hi rags. Who's a good boy. Do you like pets pets rubs or scratches and where do you like the most?
Um
I think I prefer rubs
The a lot a lot of contact that way
Nice and nice circular motions kind of prolonged. Where do I like him? Oh, you know the answer to that
The head of course
The head and my belly
I'm the guy who makes pickles and bread with his wife tonight. She made lasagna. Uh, wish we could share
She says hi and to keep calm and drink rhino milk
very kind hello
enjoy
Uh the lasagna, I suppose good stuff
Um islands can't be a collective because no one likes them
I like islands
When are you covering patrick william's video on plot holes sent via internet explorer?
Oh man
Just go back 76 episodes. I want to say
75 maybe correct. He was episode two
Why did nebula not stop quilling an infinity war when they could have gotten the gauntlet right there?
Why didn't everybody stop him? Thanos was asleep at that point
Why didn't dr. String?
Thanos with the portal and so just dropping mantis on his head all of them
What would happen if dr. Strange just while while he was asleep, I guess she has to be attached to him
But just out of curiosity if you ported him into space does he die?
He was held down
That's the thing. He was being held down by the other people like all that dr. Strange
He
Create the sling ring portal move it as he did in thorugh ragged rock right around where his neck is
Oh totally close it but out of curiosity. Does thanos die if he's thrown into space?
Maybe maybe not like space like
True thulcan. Yeah
You could put him like next to a star though, and then that would be the end of that surely you think
Yeah, it's disappointing when you think more and more about their options
Um on rags's comment about
Thagomizers and the far side the spikes were named after that cosmic
Comic, sorry, uh, we're named after that comic as a direct reference to it apparently paleontologists are big fans of gary larson
Well, I didn't know that if that's true. That's kind of funny
That's interesting
Uh rags if I made a cleveland steamroller on you, would you be would it be better if the door was open or closed?
If someone was to make a cleveland steamroller on you would it be better if the door was open or closed?
Cleveland steamroller
Um
Let's see when I got
Sounds very unpleasant
What say the superjet one last time
So they want to make one on your on your on your person and uh,
And they're wondering if the door should be open or closed during which this takes place
No, I i'm i'm not gonna let someone do a cleveland steamroller on me no
James ward chat back to the shadows with you. I think he's referring to a bot, but it applies either way
Um, also I just finished tfa parts one and two can't wait for part three sent via internet explorer. Um
I'm assuming that's like some kind of meme, but yes, part three is actually being created
I'll talk a little bit about it before we uh close out today. I would imagine. Um
Hi rags me and my dog watch you all of the time and we hate the shit out of you. Oh my
Shit spelled c h i t
All right
the
the shit
That's some kind of some kind of lingo. I don't know
Any chance of getting comics matter on efap?
I'm, not sure who they are. But uh
Anything is possible
Bring on tfa part three also hi rags
Hello i've had my g19 for years now and love it southpaw. The efaps about mi6 got me
interested
Uh in the film, I guess a great film
Yeah, clapping emoji really awesome movie
Yo, give this to kyberkins
Will do and that's a good reminder to mention that before we close out as well
If you watch the clone wars don't watch the mortis episodes
They kind of ruined the force along with the clone wars did grievous dirty and it makes me mad. Oh
Too late day for me. It was pretty bad
Uh molar are you going to update your patreon anytime soon? It's been ignored since october, mate
Um, well, I put out a thing on there basically saying my stance on like updating on there seems
Antithetical to the point as in I usually spend quite a bit of time explaining everything that's happening and i'm like, why don't I just?
Keep making work, right?
Like any time spent on an update would just be spent on making videos instead
um
they are on the way and
The only like I said, i'll i'll probably say it at the end as well. But just uh, tfa part three is being created
It's going to be rather large
The taking a long time just to do the the non-visual timeline sort of thing
But it's coming along
Um, hi everyone question
I don't know if to upload a single video of 20 minutes per week where I talk about a couple of things
I'll make three five minute videos per week where I talk about a single thing same effort and quality. Thanks
I guess whatever you prefer
Hmm
I'd probably go with a 20 minute one though myself
Yeah, it could really let you get in depth about stuff because if you want to talk about something for five minutes
I I don't know if I could do that. There's always more than I need to talk about
I don't I don't subscribe
but uh, just like
Constantly upload five minute videos that clog up my feed and prevent me from seeing like what everyone else is uploading
Yeah less is more sometimes
Um
Hey all of you good massives. I was wondering what all of your favorite pixar films are and why
Remember to wash your hands and send my love to wags
Will do. Oh, thank you
mines
Wally read it to the Incredibles
Yeah, Incredibles is probably my number two but it's close but just uh, wally's so good
I look forward to making a video on that film one day
Um, just because I
I haven't seen the rest of them recently
I'm just gonna say like maybe
Maybe toy story two
Mm-hmm
It was a good pick
I
Was about to say I said Incredibles, uh up and Ratatouille those are all probably my three favorite I
Two are directed by brad bird. But those are just all fantastic films. So yeah
Uh, do do do do war hammer isn't racist it's speciesist
Right then, okay, sure
I I just don't know anything about
That woman guy here I was outlining the one part of the show I saw potential in do you guys see glimpses of an interesting character in kate?
Oh, so I guess they want he's asking us to address like
Uh as it stands is there anything in it that like seems like good potential I guess
I think that if you asked me in episode one or two
I might have said I don't even think I would have but I might have said yes
at this point
No, you need a clean slate don't you because it's just too much shit
Like you don't have to account you have to like wipe it clean
because she is just a
A confused mess of awfulness
I'd like to actually give a shout out to a guy that regularly comments on your batwoman videos electric bayonet, too
really funny comments where he's uh
Like all right another lesson in storytelling 101 and you like you take something that the the episode is about, right?
And he breaks down. All right. This is what the hack writer would do now
This is what the lazy hacker would do and this is what the batwoman writers did
it's a really fucking great and he deserves love for uh
For those comments. Sure those videos get a lot of uh passionate comments about all this stuff. We're still missing as well like in terms of
Oh, yeah, because the show is
Something else
His comments are very long too. It's uh in in detailed
so
Very cool
Um
Uh, but yeah, sorry to sort of just bring it back quickly, I guess like interesting character in kate. I find it quite
um awful as a human
like
Okay, is would that be a form of interesting? I guess so
Like I'm often fascinated by all of her choices because i'm just like yep
That's pretty consistent with what I understand about you. You're really terrible
I think what really sealed it was the uh that episode it was one of the latest ones, right where she like
Just everyone's like calling to get the bat signal back up and she just lands in front of all the people
Trying to do it and just stands there like having them admire her. I was like that is so
batwoman
like she's obsessed with just
the
The appearance of it all not the actual like the doing of things
The fact that like I you know because you guys know about this shit, but like she didn't save people
On them in the moment the episode three
Instead goes home suits up gets a whole new makeover and then comes back to save people's lives
Fascinating that's really great priorities there batwoman
But yeah, I don't know. Um, it's just it's just tough on how to argue like how you would sort of
Blimp some
An interesting character in kate in batwoman. I would want to hold irresponsible for all the shit. She's done
Want the show to do it?
Um rags, I take exception. I'm a speciesist not a racist. I like humanity mostly
I think that's a 40k reference. Well, I mean that's a that's a start
Pretty soon you'll be hating all humanity if this efap didn't help you with that. I don't know man
Um
Warhammer isn't racist a speciesist. Oh my god, you really yeah a lot of people are feeling this way, huh?
I saw you alive hours ago. I just got done watching lukner's stream
All the notification for efap again thought there's no way they're still yet. Of course. They are blessed along man
Yeah, we've almost
Wasn't necessarily intended but it looks like we'll be hitting the cap
Uh, well close to the cap this time around
Nobody loves orphans. Are they alive?
Oh, that's a good point if you didn't, you know
Need to be loved to be alive in the toy store universe to a degree
So orphans are just going to turn into toys without you can't have
No, you can't have orphan toys
all orphans
suffered through uh sids
What if you're a toy in the company who made you like ghost bankrupt? Would you be an orphan toy?
Yeah, that's depressing
Orphan toys
Traveling so can't watch streams just want to say as someone that almost worked there pixar was unironically ruined by women
I hope they die of corona
Can you guess who said that? Oh my goodness
Raw yeah
Knew it so he's been traveling apparently
Uh, you got an efap cinema wins video on truss
There's a good chance. Yeah, that'll be pretty hilarious to watch. What it like
What is he gonna concoct?
How is he going to do that?
What would you call a win in that movie?
It's got visuals that are striking
It's like dang
Space iceberg i'm gonna come
Um
Light saber like at the end with ray like passing it to kylo. I'm sure he'll say let's like some sort of
continuation from the right last gen i was just like oh
Don't don't do this the films which like have no redeeming qualities
Foster's home for imaginary friends pizza scene
I'm guessing they want to see them unfamiliar with that
Never watched that show I will make a note and have a look
I'm not going to watch a nine hour podcast that buffers every five seconds
So later stock up on food guns and get a bible and repent you sinners
All right, may as well just in case, you know good workout
uh hearing super
Sorry
to pent again
repent sinners not
What's to repent to yeah hinting again is to repent
Oh, that means right? No
I'd have to talk to my local practitioner of
Voodoo or whatever, but I they'd have to they'd have the answer. I don't I don't know this stuff right there and limit
Jesus
You're the one supposed to know this stuff, right?
I I don't
I'm so confused. I don't have the energy to think we're nearly there. We're nearly there. Um
Hearing super slow and old after waking up. Lovely
Thanks for playing tonaled in entish
also, I
Hello
The last time i'll ask because I need someone to suffer with me is quinton sex doll alive. Yes
unfortunately
don't wait
dear
usually can you say
In welsh and tismaglom know the reference
I don't think of myself as a lion. You might as well though. I have a mighty roar. I don't actually know that reference
Oh, I have a mighty roar hey you get better at that
It's like it's I get the need to to want to go jamaican, but this is like it's not it's not quite
uh
It is efap 344 so far the slonal quote is taking up the entirety of the 12-hour limit
When will the hosts and guests get to speak? Nobody knows
You just keep playing tonaled slower and slower
Holy thank god classic efap nine hours and still going that's clap. How is that classic? No, no, no classic is like three hours
Uh, dumb question. Is there a 12-hour limit or something?
Yes, there is an 11 hour 55 minute limit, um as we're getting
We got enough time to make this we'll be fine
um
Anyone here mastodon's cover of stairway to heaven? I think it's as close to musical perfection as possible. Also welcome back to my
Lord hail the roof
I have not heard
the cover of stairway to heaven
But I hope it's rather entertaining
engaging
I sent in two super chats about rah who showed up coincidence. I think not. Yeah, that's anubis
and after him
Oh, whoops, I missed rah's return welcome back your rooftop was well kept don't look for the body on the 22nd story you won't find it
oh
Uh, or when the cat hurts him or when the toys gang up on cid
hey
They just want they just want the toys to be saying that I think i'm okay with this and dub it
Also, who's that imposter in toy story four? That's not andy combat karl it
Oh, yeah, no, it's it's definitely it's like it's really weird how they chose to just fuck up that
In cunt that like otherwise
Like there was no reason to do it, but they did
Uh
Saying the n-words justifies the memes
It says uh touch my free holies
So, uh, yeah if you guys want to oblige arin sorkin greater than every other working screenwriter
Mm
Love this movies
It's amazing
Oh a few good men. Yeah, I like that and social network. That's good shit. I haven't seen steve jump
I know uh fringies told me I need to see that though
Really good stuff like yeah
fantastic
Molly's game is so so he's yeah, it's not perfect but makes good dialogue at least they called him a toy
They did they called him a toy add that to the age factor and we're done pretty much
Um
James boar is asking for mercy wants to go to sleep. It's okay, buddy
We got one two, three four five six seven plus any the extra may have come in that time
Uh, can you all say shebop cupcake? It's a ufc term
Sorry what shebop cupcake shebop cupcake cupcake cupcake
Cupcake cupcake cupcake shebop cupcake
Bob cupcake right. Yeah, I think that was it
Random question, but who is ra is he someone you know, or does he just frequent the chat often enough for you to remember him?
I mean
He's a chatter
Batter and a super chatter. He has very controversial perspectives that have somehow managed to
Not be destroyed by susan yet
So, um, you know, I'm just uh, I have to see what else he seems to think about different things
I'm I think he'd be happy to have missed most of this one
Um considering the subject he wouldn't have liked him. I don't think
Ever seen kung pao dumb, but funny film with airplane style humor
They took an old kung fu filmed and dubbed it wrong opening is just dumb though
Yes, I have seen it and it's rather entertaining
I would recommend especially with friends
Yeah enter the fist is the uh
Subtitle I think you guys missed cosmonaut's awful cringe video on tlj. Is is there a reason why you haven't covered it yet?
Maybe you have. Uh, so we do plan to do a trilogy of efaps on his trilogy of star wars takes
It'll be our first foray into talking specifically about the prequel films. We just sort of need to slide in at some point
Trilogies, we all love them
That is referenced in the new good old
I really like uh, how it's edited. Um, get delved into that video
Ever thought of getting eckhardt's ladder?
I have little clue as to who exactly that is. But again, we're not against it
Basically, we're not against anybody. Uh
Honey i'm home. Did you miss me?
No, no, no, it's just it i'm not entirely sure of
Why you're in my home be kind of terrifying, you know, just random guy called imperial fists
Like do you guys think that's concerning if I was in your home?
Yeah, a little bit potential buffy spoilers should
Uh, I
That's like an ongoing thing for the whole fandom of buffy, uh
I I think there's a very strong argument to be made for both
I
personally go with
Spuffy I guess is what you'd call it. Also. Hi rags
Hello
You dumbos cannot escape this stream or your duty to watch hardcore henry
But we can when you finish super chats, can you say good night in an asmr tone also sleep well rags my love
I
Will I will sleep very very well?
I'm surprised i'm still up how much longer it's three fucking o'clock. How
How much longer can we even go on?
All right. All right
Uh
Do do do if you're really objective mauler tell me despite being 13 of the population
Which group of people commit over 52 of the crime checkmate long man?
I um, I I think numbers
When used in forms of percentages can be very rude to say the least
Uh konnichi. Oh, I get it. It's spelt weird, but I get it konnichiwa dogu bunsenpai uwu awu
Um, this is gonna get weird
Spank me in tebumbum
Yeah, no don't touch me there day d rags
I went shooting for the just cuts into like real shit
Rags, I went shooting for the first time in years and i'm trying to schedule a cpl class
But the big sick is spreading has made in person things hard
Has made in person. Yeah, I guess you're just gonna have to
You can do it later. I suppose just for now just
hang out by yourself
Uh mr sunday movies has used the space wizards for children line
I enjoy his stuff and find him entertaining. But as far as the criticism goes he's very much a it was fine
Everything's fine for a lot of stuff
Oh well
Um also hi stuckman evan rags and moebles
Hello
hello, hi
hey
Uh, you guys like gangs in new york by scorsese
I did when I watched it. I've only seen it the one time though and a long time ago
I haven't seen it
what to
Um tarred lightism confirmed cannon by robot chicken
I don't even know what to make of that
And that pretty much brings us to the last ones before I
Read out the last one another one just come in. I was just gonna say yeah progress updates
Just still working on tfa part three. It's gonna be very very large. It's um
Timelines coming along i'm sort of doing a different way of creating it this time around compared to other stuff where i'm like
Instead of doing one section at a time i'm trying to do like like as in
Uh only recording first and then only editing the audio and then only making this main timeline
I'm sort of doing chunks, uh going back and forth because it feels like a much free flowing
I get to work for long because it's a little less boring. Um when you end up doing the same thing too long
It's gonna be really big the amount of movies I've referenced already is
Insane it's really annoying to keep having to find new sources and change the um formats to get them to work
But I think it'll be worth it. Um, I still haven't done
The music is another thing i'm going to be concerned about
Maybe thinking about trying to find an alternative source because I usually do star wars tracks, but like it's really hard to get them underneath
Uh copyright
But they're nice for like toner stuff point being it's on the way. Um more batman
Wham and reactions are on the way and the interesting thing
Is the two?
Highly edited hopefully entertaining april fool's videos are on the way
um
They are both completed
but
I think i'm gonna re-edit the um
The riser skywalker one as soon as the blu-ray comes out because that's in like a couple of days. So
Instead of having the pirate gay footage and maybe further convince people it's totally for real
But uh, hopefully you guys will enjoy both those that'll be april first and I don't know expected date
and ironically for uh
The gfa part three will probably be next month
But i've still got the deadline of august 2020. That's what rags gave me. I still haven't hit that yet
I'll be fine. Prove it. Plenty time plenty time
Uh rags any updates before we will we shuffle off the mortal coil?
Ah, whoa. Whoa, I don't not gonna go that far. But um
Uh
Man nothing really comes to mind i'm sort of too tired to think very clearly
Um, I think I just need to slip away to dreamland
I've already i've i'm just that bed's looking at me and it's i'm just gonna
Fine over there. I'll read the next selection then a couple more things. We still have a little bit of time. Uh
Cove 19 created to help people catch up on efap really led me to believe that based off of that previous statement that this was
A
I I practiced all of it with i'm gonna read the rest about as soon as the things so I didn't know lies were made
I've been up for 23 hours. I worked for 10 and spent 10 here. I need to pee 99 massive vos
Um, yeah, go pee
Hi rags
Hello, what are your opinions on avatar the last event?
I
Based on what i've seen
I don't think it's very good
I don't really care though
I'm trying to like I don't have any interest in watching the show or
People I don't care
That's almost like you've already said this before and people keep on asking
Well
Our slave joe and steamboat sids real relatives
Well, there's no denying slave joe and steamboat would be at least aware of each other like this
That's just obvious law
Mola is the gay
Sorry, I don't want to do with that. I just have to agree with her. I suppose
Uh, hi rags. What did you have for breakfast today? Also have a good night guys
Night
Oh good night. What did I have for breakfast today? Yeah
I had two eggs scrambled some toast and some hash browns
With uh, unsweet tea to drink
Um
Having trouble with star wars tracks due to copyright use knights of the old republic soundtrack
Oh it will
I'm sorry. I mean there's lots of alternatives I could use but uh, also
The whole reason I want to use the soundtracks because you know, it's that soundtrack. You'll know it as you're listening sort of thing
Can't be good. It's a galactic
Yeah, I'll
I'll be thinking about my options, you know, what do you want to do? Um, ola rags
Hello
Ola mola. Hello. Love from mexico. I really love your videos
They've helped me a lot as an artist and a possible comic writer. Keep it up
Oh
Glad and hope you enjoy
Um comic writer good stuff. Yeah
It's one in the morning. I might be sourced but I need to ask I forget or I forgot
Okay
One in the morning. I might be sourced but I need to ask then it just says I forgot
Oh, well
Uh robot chicken appreciate your valiant attempt. Can I help you robot chicken made the fourth one on buzz stupidity?
Made the fourth one on suppose. Is this your way of telling me robot chicken and made fun of buzz being stupid in
in
oyster cool
Sorry
I'm a little bit melted as well. I know
james morgan just said mauler, please i've had three hours of sleep every day this week and i'm drunk
Let me die
Nearly there
This says fucking shit from uh table pikachu i'm back listen to the deer hunter. Love you all
I love very kind and and of course the one that was just read
Mola, please i've had three hours of sleep every day this week and i'm drunk. Have mercy. Let me die. You are welcome to die
At this very moment, uh, so
Our asses then do not die
Okay, so let's let's get this sorted
Um, I want to make sure we get these these shout outs fully done to our two guests today
We'll uh, I guess start with either of you lads who who would like to talk about their channel first
Uh, I I guess I can go first, um dive I make topical videos on movies. Um
It'll typically like relate to some argument or I guess something that's like a subject in a film
I'm actually working on a video right now. I've been editing it for so freaking long
So I I think I have audio that i'm i'm happy with so that that video will hopefully be out within a week or so
It's it's going to be on character assassination. So
Yeah, it's not a scene a cut of it
Yeah, uh you've yeah, it's it's looking really good right so far
So it's uh, it's going to be one for the ages when it's uh public
And we've we've actually shown evan's video on here before you'll have some vague recollection of it
Perhaps if you were to check it out the link is in the description and in the chat
Give it a go
It's worth while and then of course
Mr. Southpaw
What are you what are you up to lately?
Well, I am working on a handful of
Uh
At a time i've been prioritizing the rise of skywalker review which
I read out most of it to evan. I still have a few sections to work on but it's
Closing in on like it could possibly be two hours long. It's at least 90 minutes long as is right now
So that's going to be fun
then I have to re-edit and remaster my shazam review with some new criticisms and
um, i'm also going to account for the
Because they
Again, the director is a pretty cool dude on the internet and I want to be a little bit more gentle just because it's like
My first review of shazam was pretty fucking harsh and I think it's a badly written movie but
then
When you when you make a video
Um, that's that kind of harsh and then you go see toy story 4 afterwards you gain perspective, you know what I mean?
And speaking of which i'm going to do a
review of toy story 4 and then i'm going to do a full length critique of the dark knight rises so
lots of length
It's coming up ahead. It's just that content that that song takes a while to to develop
but that is what i'm working on right now and
uh, once I have
The and better internet connection. I will be resuming my podcast, which is basically
covering videos that efap has not
covered
Because there's at least two or three videos that we covered that efap and later covered. Um, so
Yeah, just I
Super active right now just because of my personal life and
Working on these long scripts, but I am still working on it
All right
and
Yeah, you're you're um, you've been on a couple times now. I imagine people know
The channel to a degree if if they're interested and the links are all where they should be
The only other thing was that um at the beginning we mentioned that kyberkins the author and creator and maintainer
of the efap.me
Site has come under some trouble with getting a bunch of valuables robbed
and so, um, we were just sort of
Hoping to see if people could potentially support
A bit through you you you click the link to efap.me
And then there is a paypal link at the bottom
if you can
spare some
Well, uh monetary support like I said, uh, we've had a couple of
donations in tonight that were meant for um for kyberkins i'm gonna pass them along and with a
a bit on top just to make sure that uh
They can at least get the fucking like a laptop back or something get get get get on there
Revivial feet help them out. They do great work for this community invaluable stuff
Uh good ways of appreciation and antisms
Yeah, we should all be looking out for each other here, you know
Uh
Are you finished with those superchats meme this
Up and finally I won a bracketeering game of jack box the topic best podcast to make love to and without context
I put efap. I want to fuck the shiba inu and one
Oh, I mean, you know not in action. It's not a lie
Um, and yeah, so I think we did it everybody. Is there anything else anybody wants to say before we close out?
Toy story 4 fucking sucks
I would be all right with never watching it again
Twice is arguably two times too many
And with that good night have a good night everybody good night everyone
