Do it.
Oh, exciting.
Do it.
I saw people in the, um, the Discord were like, he's the, uh, their plan is to go
live in like two hours from now.
And I was like, where'd they go?
Who told him that?
Fuck, we don't make our plans until the day of most of the time.
I don't know what you mean.
This is probably the most professional podcast that's ever existed.
Well, only in my subjectively objective opinion.
I was going to say, lucky for me, it's all subjective.
So I can't be wrong.
What noise was that responding to extra credit to be revisited just to write
with Theo who was on a, that's my one claim to that top meme.
I mean, in terms of like memes and the balcony, I'm B list as fuck.
So maybe it does need reiterating.
Bliss.
Like bliss.
So Wolf, do you drink your Venus warm?
What?
That was a question from previous EFAP.
I remember I asked it in front of rags and I was like, what the fuck's Venus?
And I think you said it was that a carbonated drink of some kind.
I don't drink Verner's so.
Oh, wrong.
I mean, I know what Verner's is, but it's a strange fucking question.
I mean, some people like to just know these things.
It was, it was in a super chat, so they must have really wanted to know.
Well, yeah.
Verner's is like, eh, it's not horrible, but I would never go out of my way to
drink it and if someone offered it to me, I'd probably just ask for water instead.
You're telling me that they, they, they got the wrong information
and have thus wasted their time.
Indeed.
Okay.
He said, forgive me if this is an important lore tidbit that's been answered before.
Um, also apparently you, you should read Solaris by Isaac Asimov.
Man, I have like 400 books I have yet to read.
400?
I'm just going to go on the list of all the shit I have to do.
And RML if you have to do over eat pizza.
Yeah.
Read.
Right.
Do YouTube do my full time job is eat pizza all day, all night.
You don't have blood.
You have marinara.
That's pretty cool.
Well, at least it's tastier than blood.
And if a vampire tries to like suck it out, they're going to be like, wow,
this is a fucking great.
Oh, this guy eats a lot of pizza.
Do you think they would like ward off of an empire or do you think they would just
flop?
Of course that there's garlic on it.
Oh, yeah, there's not garlic in marinara.
Is that gum to suck your blood?
I don't think so.
I mean, I'm not a chef.
How would I know there are garlic?
There is garlic on pizza depending on where you're getting it from.
But you eat so much pizza that you will absorb the garlic.
I'll have you know, I've been eating healthy things all week.
Yeah, vegan pizza.
Yeah, I've been putting good stuff on my pizza.
No, I have.
I had fucking chicken breast, brown rice and broccoli today.
After you fill down the pizza, I get the small pizza.
It's only like four slices.
I don't think it counts.
We have to admit it that he's still eating his pizza.
We have like a grain of rice doesn't really count.
I am.
Oh, I am.
Oh, I don't know.
Rice is a bunch of like rice is just pure carbs, isn't it?
Hey, brown rice is better than white rice.
Whoa.
Oh shit.
Well, you know, we made it 12 seconds.
I was going to say thanks for the band, dude.
Thanks for this shit.
Well, hey, the last defab established that I am a Nazi.
So vegan pizza is disgusting.
I was supposed to say that's such an easy segue into what we're
covering, but I was like this one more thing I wanted to talk
about.
So I've read plenty of comments from the last defab of people
being like there was this one that was like sure they can
counter criticisms of homecoming.
They never really talk about why homecoming is any good though.
Like they don't ever talk about they don't ever raise a point
for why homecoming is good.
We've heard the the the anger tisms.
We know everyone really talk about homecoming that much.
No, that's the point.
I was going to say like we counted criticism arbitrarily like
it was brought up casually because it's just a point of contention.
We've got an episode possibly two coming up.
They're going to be all about homecoming now because clearly
the fan base wants us to talk about it with people who hate
it.
So we're going to try and set that up so that everyone can
enjoy it.
We'll call it the homecoming debate or something like that.
It'll be like the the arrival one, but you know, we'll see
how it goes and who knows who will guest and it'll be fantabilistic.
But yeah, we haven't actually had time with homecoming really.
So like the people who are like why haven't you explained why
you think Spider-Man homecoming is any good and say we're not
really not that's never been a focus of the conversation.
All I think all that happened in the previous episodes.
I was like, oh shad triggered a critical drinker.
What are the biggest problems with it?
Just tell me I think shad said that it was MJ was his biggest
issue and that's the only thing I remember not liking about
the movie, but he was not in it much.
So I think what's interesting is that when we rewatched it,
I had said that the PE teacher has more lines in that movie
than MJ does.
Right.
MJ is extremely limited in my lines and I actually find a lot
of the jokes that she's entwined with quite funny.
Yeah, so I find it to be completely, you know, non non frustrating
and not to say that anyone else shouldn't or anything.
I'm just it's very curious that she would be like such a major
issue unless the argument comes down to an adaptation thing
in which case we always have to qualify.
We mean Shadaversity, not Shadman.
Shadaversity is our no Shadman.
No, no, don't equate the two rags.
That's bad.
So also if if when it comes to homecoming, if your argument
is it's not like a ceramic, then I just literally could not
give a fuck.
So save your time.
Well, just save your breath.
I'm going to watch Booterman 2 tonight.
And then you'll finally be able to see another film that everyone
hates.
And well, I am genuinely curious to see what you'll think of
it.
It's going to be funny.
Hopefully I'll be awake and I can talk to you.
I'm going in with like no expectations.
I'm just going to be like, okay, Spiderman.
It's going to be great.
Also, yeah, welcome guest Theo.
Hi there.
Hey, why did you speak over me?
God, you're welcome.
It's been a while.
You came on episode whatever when we covered wonderful Joseph
Wright, just Anderson.
He was he was talking about good old subjective fit tisms and
how it's all implied after the horror game shit.
That was the one you commented on, right?
The subjectivity one.
Yeah.
Yeah, because he was because he made like an arbitrary comment
on the lines of like historians don't have to be objective.
So I can't remember.
It's all the power of race.
He he equated historians providing citations for their evidence
with people giving like in my opinion, declarations and such
like and apparently they're the same thing.
I would love that if your history teacher was like and they
lost the battle in my opinion.
It was because they lacked a boat.
It's like, oh, what's that based on?
I don't know.
I just think that I think that they did.
It's just my opinion.
All right.
It's just how I feel, you know.
Oh, yeah, and obviously so some people be like, why aren't
you talking about far from home?
Spider-Man is out.
We're not gonna do that until rags and wolf seen it and hopefully
the idea is they would have seen it by the next d-fap.
Maybe wolf certainly will have rags is a maybe tisms.
So yeah, you won't be spoiled of it.
If you haven't seen yet, but we're also not going to cover it
because we got so much other tisms to do like.
Yeah, my goodness.
Why are we efapping when Spider-Man is out?
It's gonna be out.
It's Spider-Man is gonna be out.
Yeah, Spider-Man 3 will be out eventually.
No, I'm at homecoming to spider-man fall from home to who
knows what they'll call it.
I think my special Spider-Man 4 or maybe just a remake of
Spider-Man 3.
So we don't have to think about what actually happened in
Spider-Man 3.
Spider-Man 3 2.
Spider-Man 3.
Retried.
Spider-Man 3.
Revengeance.
So I have bad news.
There's a video that got released that you guys may have
heard of called Stop Normalizing Nazis.
Jack Sparrow featuring Michael Bolton.
That is the subtitle of the video.
Yeah.
So the idea is this channel called extra credits and they
did an oopsie, but the thing is unfortunately for me or
fortunately, I've never cared about this channel.
Has anyone on this panel cared about your extra credits
before?
I had never heard of them until this video and now I never
want to watch anything from them.
I've seen a couple other stuff through the years just on
and off.
I mean three videos maybe because they did the they did
the whole video not too long ago where you should be paying
more than $60 for games and that was a boat winner.
We might check that out too because that was fun.
Yeah, they did some other stuff every once in a while.
They'll have sort of a tis me take but generally as far as
I know they they try to stay pretty it kind of try to stay
in the straight and narrow but whenever they try to get
political in any way it goes and this is the worst I've
ever seen it though.
I've never seen it this bad.
This is this is a unifying Lee.
Yeah, the next level bad.
It has like one of the worst ratios ever like I'm not even
kidding.
It's down to is it 9% now is it 10% it is that is it 10%
currently 10% positive.
It's hard to get that ratio.
It's very hard one in 10 people think this is a good idea.
So yeah, there's a lot of people in chat who've watched extra
credits for a long time.
I know a lot of people really like them.
I've never watched them.
I've only ever been linked them every once in a while and
I remember a lot of controversy going around on the
The pay for more from games one like I said, we might check
that one out as well.
But this is the one we got to get through first the I've
seen just over a half of this video and I've seen someone
else responding to it because literally like fucking a huge
portion of the people I follow on YouTube responded to this
because it annoyed everybody.
It's one of those everyone disliked that moments.
You guys are seeing chatter like stop normalizing the toxic
rude stop normalizing longman.
I want to normalize longman.
What are the response videos?
I think was called like stop normalizing idiocy like or
something like that.
I was like, hey, we can keep this going.
Yeah, so they've done this something I should mention and
I don't know enough about this.
So I'm just saying it's the people who are curious would
know they have a relatively different team now from what
they had even a year ago.
I think there's a lot of controversy behind the scenes of
who makes extra credits exactly.
So look into it if you want to find out.
I don't know enough about it.
It's very it seems very making complicated.
There's a couple of like controversies that go further
than just weird tisms.
And so like a lot of people are pointing out their stances
from before compared to now are different than some people
are well different people wrote it and it's like they
have different values now.
It's still interesting.
Obviously, it's a unified channel, but yeah, I don't know
who wrote this and I don't know if the person speaking it
is is the person who holds the views.
I don't really it doesn't really matter because we're
just responding to the video as content.
Anyway, there's been a lot of talk figuring that out back
and forth lots of Reddit threads and stuff either way.
We're going to see this they've written a response to
the criticism.
We've seen responses on Twitter.
We're going to check out all those.
It's gonna be wonderful.
Yeah, we're going to have a we're going to have to say old
time you guys ready for what are we doing?
Oh, you and watch together.
We're going to watch a video.
Yeah, we're watching Jack Sparrow.
Oh, is it not showing up for you?
It is.
I just know there's so many times.
I remember that.
Okay, Theo get in the room.
This is in the room for of us.
They just stop normalizing.
Only shows three for me.
Rejoin off.
The myth, but I'm there.
Wait, so am I.
I can see full.
So it's fine to be Skyrim.
What's this video Skyrim's opening how not to start a game.
Yes, Skyrim is one of the most overrated games of all time.
It's actually not really that good.
I don't know why people are fucking I don't know why people
adore Skyrim.
I'm like, I'm actually a little bit confused.
But all right.
That's a tangent.
It's fun.
This is working for everybody though, right?
Right.
You're supposed to eat it Wolf.
I do eat it.
Why do you not roll it?
I bet what you do is I bet you take pizza and then you roll
it up like big old Italian taco and then you just know just
throw it on the Scooby-Doo show program.
Wait, no.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
No, I eat a pizza like a normal man.
Normal for and that you're not a normal man.
You're not a normal in analyzing pizza.
So can I press play this video starts so gloriously.
I'm gonna press play there.
You are playing the PVC in your World War two shooter and
all of a sudden you're a Nazi.
So I just want to I just want to draw attention to he said
PvP not PvE PvP.
Yeah, that's your favorite PvP World War two game and then
all of a sudden you're not so that's a habit subtle, but
then bam you just you don't really know when the moment
hits you just kind of realize that it's happened that you're
a Nazi now.
That's a penis couch.
I think that couch is very kind of suggestively phallic.
Yes, and the color does scream penis to me a little bit
does scream that color and we're answering the real questions
here on the fat.
So yeah, just I'm just gonna hear him out again.
Just make sure I got wait.
Wait, what if what if that was like the Nazi uniforms that
they wore in World War two shirt with Nazi diagonally?
Like I don't know.
I just I think that the previous uniforms they were they
were a lot more stylish.
It's like Jesus frag.
Look, why do you have to be so judgmental?
These ones are stylish to get the point across.
Yeah, I'd have to be such a fashion Nazi, you know, as bad
as the Nazis were they had a rockin fashion sense.
Yeah, they really did.
They fucking Hitler has the coolest mustache in the world
and nobody can wear it now.
Why is it that every fap you talk about fucking Hitler?
He talks about fucking him and it was confirmed.
Well, I don't talk about that, but you know, it's implied.
There you are playing the PvP in your World War two shooter
and all of a sudden you're a Nazi.
Like I already like this because they've I already know
they publicly come out saying hey, we're not saying just
because you're playing it.
It makes you a Nazi.
It's like, what is this?
Like, what is this opening?
So how about all the time where I'm playing like my favorite
PvP shooter and all of a sudden I'm a communist.
I didn't ask for well, communists are okay.
No, communists.
No, they're not to mention if you play if I for example
plays the Americans or you guys play as British like we
can just trade on nationality for the day until you stop
playing of which since you get a communist Mahler got me
to watch Chernobyl and it's stellar.
Oh, did you like that last episode dude?
You like it?
Oh jeez is great man.
I did the whole I did all five in a row.
I was up till 6 in the morning.
So good.
If you haven't seen Chernobyl get with a program and watch
the Chernobyl.
Back to the video.
Imagine you get called a Nazi that you recommend Chernobyl.
So I remember I was playing my favorite PvE.
Transhumanist Cyberpunk game and all of a sudden boom.
I was a cyborg named Adam Jensen and I didn't ask for this.
It's not like you asked for this.
I was to quote someone from the chat.
I was playing Dead Space 2 multiplayer the other day.
I know it does exist.
It's okay.
Yeah, it's suddenly I was a necromorph.
I didn't ask to be a horrible disgusting monster.
I was I was playing my actually yesterday legit.
I was actually playing my favorite World War one themed
Battlefield game and boom.
I was British.
I didn't ask for this.
Why not?
Yeah, I was playing Halo the other day and all of a sudden
I was blue.
I didn't ask for it.
Wait was your armor blue or were you a like a blue alien?
Like my armor was blue.
I remember when you could play as an elite.
I remember those days.
I remember when Halo was good back before, you know.
I hated the whole red versus blue thing for who the hell's
the baddies red or blue.
How do you know?
How do you know?
Well, if you watch red versus blue it tells you.
I was playing my favorite Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2
game and then before I knew it happened.
Boom.
I was a faggot.
Oh, no, you play the Joseph Anderson simulator.
So anyway, your shooter and all of a sudden you're a Nazi.
You didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this yet.
There it is.
Oh God Nazis.
Oh no, look how good that guy on the right looks.
Look at that cool ass outfit.
That dude's hat.
But he's no no Nazis.
Stop it.
It's by saying they're dressed cool.
You're saying the Nazis are cool, which by the way, not overtly
Nazis from my very rudimentary understanding of soldiers.
I wouldn't know enough to know.
But like I can tell you is that the guy on the right is German
and didn't bring you tell us before we did this call that World
War II you fought or world at war rather there was like fighting
against the Vermont not necessarily the Nazis.
Oh, well, this is we're going to be having to go into that
throughout this video in 1940 were Nazis every single one
down to the last man, woman, child and cow.
Everyone joined the party every single one.
Just like how in America today everyone supports Trump.
I was watching Captain Bobble and bam of the dog.
Not so bad.
We joke, of course, because the obvious response to this is
yeah, whenever you play a game, you're obviously choosing
to play as whatever factions the game has in it.
It's it's such an obvious in your face response to this
that it's almost not even worth mentioning.
I guess it's almost like one side has to play as the bad guys.
It's like, hey, can you believe that you chose to go and buy
this World War II themed game and you might in multiplayer
be put on the German side?
Can you believe like, oh, in the top left, Scott need ammo,
need Medic and it's like they're concerned about the mechanics
they don't give a shit about like they're not here to be like
we the bad.
Well, their name is Battlefield 5 Review 341.
Oh, that's interesting.
The the class is there you have, you know, the marksman support
medic.
So what is that that Apex looking symbol on the left hand
side?
Is that supposed to be the assaults new symbol now?
Because that looks like Battlefield 5.
So I only played the beta.
Oh, this is this is Battlefield 5.
Things are actually I'm just guessing from the names.
I don't fucking know like this could be anything as far as I
know. Seatingly unimpressive.
What an interesting new logo because in Battlefield 1 the
logo for assault was like an explosion like a little starburst
because, you know, boom explosion, but okay, it's interesting.
So yeah, I can't wait to not play this game.
What's the what's the nightmare scenario for this video's
topic? Like, okay, so I'm in the game.
I'm a Nazi.
You turn into a Nazi.
We'll see then I'll give you the nightmare.
Sorry. I'm sitting next to you.
I'm just playing my Gameboy on my little on my Pokeman's
and I'm like, oh man, Nazis are bad.
And then you're like, I don't think so.
I've been playing this game a lot and they kind of just the
same as like the British or the American soldiers really.
And then I look at you play Pac-Man suddenly in real life.
I start eating people alive.
That's also okay.
So and they're going to address that in a future video,
I think, but yeah, so I'd be like, but Theo, don't you don't
you know Nazis are actually the bad and then you're like not
according to this game.
This game treats the Nazis as the morally righteous and
correct action clearly the problem here is a he's already
like this is his first reference.
This is like a legitimate reference instead of being
vague. It's like Battlefield 5 these guys boom, you're a
Nazi and so I'm like with you know, first of all, I need
someone who knows the references one-to-one to be able
to be like so this is what they actually are or whatever
but talk about like Guy and both of the both the guys on
the left. They kind of like I feel like I could be told
they're from many factions and I could believe it.
You know what I mean?
Oh, do you think to the untrained observer, they're probably
not like overtly we're marked soldiers.
Well, and that's one of the complaints people had about
Call of Duty World War 2 is that the Germans were like you
couldn't even tell that they were in the German side really
because they were extremely black female one ethnic and
multi-gendered.
They're very the Nazis were very diverse and inclusive and
their uniforms were it just didn't look like the Nazis at
all.
So on this video's topic, I wonder how many professional
counter-strike players are now terrorists.
We have a problem spreading counter-strike big.
They're all terrorists.
Only they're not historically accurate.
We'll try and keep track of checks.
I'm sure there's going to be a lot of insight and chat as
to the accuracy of these this not in this video, but the
evidence is going to use but we'll keep soldiering on you
didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this yet.
There it is and it's treated no differently than playing
a British soldier.
What does he mean?
Yeah, because you're a fucking faceless soldier from a
mechanic perspective.
Yeah, it's called balance.
It's called balance in multiplayer.
You fucking twit.
Well, yeah, this is what I mean.
If he's strictly talking about mechanics, it's like oh good.
And if he's like I'm talking about how they looked at just
as soldiers.
I'd be like, okay.
Yeah, it's literally what they are.
That's what they are in a PvP game like this.
I'm nothing but the vessel for a health bar and a gun.
That's all I am.
Yeah, it's a competition between you and the other team.
And so we and it's themed for the world for World War two.
So one of the teams will look like the Germans and the other
team will look like Americans or British or whatever and
that's literally as far as it goes in 99.999% of people who
have ever played these games.
It's not even something that even comes to mind.
It's just guys World War two.
So one side is going to be German the other side is going
to be American and then you play the game.
End of story.
What do you mean?
Is he going to specify more than that?
Or is he just differently than playing a British soldier?
This video sucks.
That's an aggressive intro.
Yeah, I'm gonna have to turn that up.
Stop normalizing aggressive injuries.
You know, I was playing my friend Pedro the other day and
I just decided, you know, I think I need to get a gun and
go kill a bunch of people.
I just like that.
I'm paused it bad.
Okay, soldier.
Hey, listen, I don't know why I have to play the British
soldier.
I didn't choose this.
I didn't choose to play as some fucking inferior.
I don't want you guys to be able to play as a superior
race.
Jesus.
I don't want to play as banana.
Who wants to who wants to play is who wants to play as
the Americans really?
I mean, what if there are people out there who said,
Oh, I don't like the Americans have done terrible things.
I'm going to play as the American.
I don't want to play as these several levels that he's got
here.
You know what?
No one wants to play as the French.
Yes.
Fuck the French and the Canadians, especially the
Canadians.
This is bad on so many levels.
No one should ever have a random chance of fighting for
the Nazis.
No one should ever have a random chance of fighting for
the Nazis.
That is one loaded statement.
Yeah, you see the wording on that not playing as a Nazi
fighting for the Nazis.
I was supposed to say like first of all,
is a video game.
I want to make sure we're on the same page with that one.
The Nazi Party of Germany is gone.
Well, the the underlying core of this video is that they
don't think that people can distinguish between reality
and video games fantasy, which is something that you can
establish from like an extremely early age is like a child
is the ability to distinguish between fantasy and reality.
No, because you see when I played like a Bionicle game
when I was six years old, I was like, okay, I'm actually
a Bionicle now.
Yeah, I'm a legal person.
I got a better one.
Well, maybe not a better one, but just a really thematically
relevant one cops and robbers.
So at the end of that game, do the parents go robbers?
This is wrong.
You shouldn't be robbing.
Okay, cops.
You did great.
You guys were awesome.
Keep it up.
Because everyone that played Payday 2 decided to go out
and rob some banks.
I was gonna say, how does this not apply to literally everything
that has you do anything morally dubious in any kind of media?
Because Nazis are worse than literally everything in the
world, even though communism killed a lot more people.
I do like the idea that they would probably argue.
It's like, oh, no, we're just saying, you know, Nazis are
the worst thing ever.
So just do it then you're like, okay, we'll give you that.
And then next year they're like, but there are a few more
things we could do this for you.
Like, uh-huh, everything you don't like.
Because what players love is to load up their game and to
try to get into a lobby for their multiplayer.
They just want to relax and have fun and play with their
friends and and then they get like a moral lecturing about
the factions and politics and the morality of all the sides
involved in this conflict that they're playing in the game.
That's what gamers love that we love to be lectured to about
morality liberal.
So that's that's really relevant to the kind of experience
that they're looking for in a multiplayer game.
That's why I bought a World War II game at all is to explore
the moral implications of each faction that was involved.
Liberal tears in chat said guess what I did after playing
the airport level in Mon Morphy, too?
Walked through while your buddies try everyone in the air.
No, he didn't speak Russian.
Oh, right.
Also, do you like how they're trying to be serious about
the subject matter and then they've got Nick Cage as a
possible player in the normalizing Nicholas Cage.
I'm just like guys, you're making a serious point.
Stop normalizing banana bad on so many levels.
No one should ever have a random chance of fighting for the
Nazis.
Yeah.
So as you said fighting for the Nazis is very interesting
and a random chance.
It's like why do you say that like it isn't that almost
get auto sorted into isn't that isn't that sufficiently
detaching you as in you had no control over it.
It's just yes, it's a faction you're playing for but it's
the exact same game for the people on the other side.
It's because it's just a mechanics based game.
I mean if I ever change my team, it's not because I really
really want to play as the Nazis.
It's because my team sucks ass and I want to be on the winning
one.
Also on these games typically arriving with single-player
campaigns that don't tend to make the Nazis look like anything
but reprehensible.
Yeah, Nazis are generally the bad guys.
Let's ignore that to make the video look better.
Oh, I guess it doesn't count because you'd have to play the
single-player.
Most people just don't.
They only play multiplayer and people choose teams and
multiplayer.
It's generally based around whatever the map is and whatever
team might have an advantage in the map.
Yeah.
I think I think I spoke to rise about this before we heard
about this video.
This is like whatever I played a galactic conquest like
Battlefront shit.
I just like I typically like to play as the bad guys.
I'd be like oh, I've been desensitized to the the
horrors of the Empire.
I need to be told about like Emperor Palpatine wasn't that
good.
Have you ever felt compelled to build a station to blow up
planet?
I just like, you know, if you played as Darth Maul, they're
like you do know that he wasn't the hero of the story.
I'd be like, oh, no.
I only played as the good guys on Mo Sizley assault because
they had a super fucking huge advantage over the bad guys.
I liked playing as Darth Maul on that because it's a fucking
nightmare to fight against because of his like you'd sprint
forward and attack and you do that spin, spin, spin, spin,
spin, spin thing.
The bad guy team had such cooler characters, but it was so
fucking rigged for the good guys to win.
Just like on Kashyyyk, the droids always win.
Well, and the original Battlefront on like Dune Sea,
it was pretty much impossible for the rebels to win.
We're all secretly fascist.
Stay toxic by Ed Brods.
Anyway, let's see.
What other things this person will say.
One should ever have a random chance of fighting for the
Nazis and we should never express that there's no meaningful
difference between Nazis and Allen.
Am I just saying which one's which?
I can't distinguish between these two groups.
We shouldn't.
You literally can.
That's not true at all.
Yes, you can.
You know, we just said we should never express that there's
no meaningful difference between them.
I'd be like, so even in the scenario in which I am literally
just labeling factions to you in a like clinical manner.
I'm just like Nazis are a thing.
But what is the thing?
He's like, you mentioned them.
You need to clarify how evil they were like.
I'm sorry.
How fucking stupid do you think we are?
Like we understand the difference between Nazis.
They think they're fucking real dumb.
Yeah, this whole video is about how dumb they think their
audience is.
Even then, is that the game's responsibility for it?
Anyone that has learned anything in school knows the Nazis were bad.
No, it's the responsibility of the school.
That's not even his point, though.
He's assuming that that is true.
It's that this game is slowly convincing us that what we've
learned in school is necessarily true.
They're normalizing the Nazis by playing as them in the game.
You're apparently somehow representative of their ideology
and thus becoming desensitized.
Do you think that could ever happen?
Is there even a case of that happening with someone who said
Nazis aren't so bad because I played them in a video game
and they had the same mechanics as the good guys?
That's why I brought up the crisis scenario.
Like, how does this get to the point of being a problem?
It sounds so disconnected.
It's like, you know, this banana convinced me to assassinate
the president.
You'd be like, but I just have to go.
Multiplayer games, especially the component, the multiplayer
component of World War Two games, they're completely devoid
of any moral or narrative.
It's literally just a vehicle for you to fight another team
to have a first-person shooter.
So when people see that, if anything, they're going to be
like Nazis were a faction and they fought against this other
team and that's it.
It doesn't go into anything else.
Dude, imagine every time you kill someone as the Nazis in
like a PvP environment, they pause everything, goes black
and white and it's like, what you did was bad.
You shot that innocent soldier.
You are a Nazi and then it carries on.
Everyone's like, fuck sake, every time.
Yeah, but it's very important.
The game does that just to let you know that what you did
was a bad.
You can't express Nazis as like the same as anything else.
Jesus.
Meaningful difference between, you know, in Doom multiplayer,
you can become a demon and you better express the demons
are meaningfully different than humans.
S.
God forbid you become a demon in real life, Rags.
Yeah, you guys know that they're functionally interchangeable.
And before anyone, fashionable, fashionally interchangeable.
I mean, by the logic of changing your clothes, I guess
that's true.
They would be interchangeable skins.
A lot of people in the comments of this video because they're
fucking cowards.
They won't put swastikas on their people that they're trying
to represent as Nazis.
They won't put swastikas on them.
They have iron crosses on them, which aren't Nazi symbols.
So yeah, I read a comment that says something like that's
been a relevant symbol Germany for like more than a thousand
years or something ridiculous.
I don't know if that's true, but that's that's their modern
that's true.
That's the Bundeswehr, Bundeswehr, Bundeswehr is that's
like that's like their military symbol currently.
Well, so the real message is Germany is bad.
Yeah, I was about to say like Germans back.
I'm glad they've told us to fear old Germans hate old Germans.
No, I am a German.
I was about to say like who does that remind you of hating
an entire group of people based on something that you know,
I'm not trying to connect two dots here.
What do you mean?
It's true.
Iron Cross is an emblem of German military current one current
one.
So they're all still Nazis.
Jesus.
I didn't know that.
We need to do something about this done with that or that
they're functionally interchangeable and before they are
functioning interchangeable was supposed to say like in the
game.
Yeah, and it's like this is a problem.
What do you want them to do?
Do you want us to have like if you're on the Nazi team, we start
off the match by like barbecuing some Jews just to tell everyone
that they have an arrow.
It is this bad.
No, it's come on when gamers play video game balance comes first
essentially, you need to have some kind of balance.
You need to have it be fun.
You need to have it be fair.
And if you have a World War II game that inherently puts the Nazis
at a disadvantage because Nazis are bad, then that's going to make
the game far worse and people are not going to play it.
It's gonna be a bad part of the game.
Like I don't want to play a game that is horribly unbalanced.
But what if it's in favor of letting you know that Nazis aren't
good?
I don't want to play it then.
Why do I need the game to tell me that?
Why does the game have a responsibility to tell me?
Because you're stupid and you'll get desensitized and then you'll
join the Nazi party.
Do you want to know why?
But I've already done all those things.
What if you vote for Trump?
There's a reason why the game has a responsibility because you
see if you go to the extra credits channel and you look at
their YouTube banner and as they have said for a long time
because games matter, you see besides these are the remember
extra credits.
They've made a video saying that everything is political.
Literally everything is political.
Everything that you do is political.
Watch things a load of horse shit, but that's this is this is
the kind of video.
That's the natural result of people who push that everything
is political narrative.
Have you explored the rationale for that shit man?
It drives me nuts retarded.
It's like the air you breathe is as a result of policies on
pollution and therefore your very existence is political.
It's like everything is the Sun.
Everything is the Sun.
The best you can say is it's political in the sense that it's
a product of its time.
Well, this is my point.
It's like it by their logic.
It's like oh, yeah, everything is political.
Everything's also I don't know atoms and you're like, okay.
Thanks for pointing that out.
Yes, like what you had for breakfast that was political.
They would say that they would an ironically argue that and
it's frustrating because it's like okay guys the shower you
took yet last night.
That's that was political.
And so obviously they're saying like all these FPS games
that haven't been making statements about Nazis as thoroughly
as they should be have been degrading our society.
Can you believe it?
They've been getting away.
We're gonna say that everything is political.
So as a result every game does no no game has an excuse for
not having politics in it to push a political narrative
because it was always political Nazis and Allied soldiers
or that they're functionally interchangeable and before
anyone equivocates and says not all German soldiers in World
War two were Nazis.
Not all German soldiers in World War two were Nazis.
So yeah, that's literally true though.
That most of them it gets way more complicated than that
the further you dig as well like the idea that occupied
countries that would have joined the armies like oh God.
Yeah, when you start considering that and then the fact that
so many people would have just followed along because good
God, they don't want to die.
And like this level of nuance is almost like offensive to
this channel because they'd be like hey, hey, hey, that'll
make people like Nazis even slightly more and that's bad.
They're evil.
You're like guys.
What if we said that Nazis are bad but also not every German
in the 1940s was a Nazi those those are not mutually
exclusive things.
But let's let's hear the full argument here.
So these actually or that they're functionally interchangeable
and before anyone equivocates and says not all German soldiers
in World War two were Nazis if they were wearing the swastika
and are functioning as an arm of the Nazi government then
unless the game goes out of its way to tell you specifically
that your particular character is not a Nazi then there are
God fucking hell.
So multiplayer game you fucking Jesus.
So if they're wearing the swastika and then there are an
extension of the Nazi party in like the form of warfare,
I guess then the game has to specifically tell you they're
not a Nazi in the worst sense.
Otherwise, they are is what every soldier and every army is
expressly and personally supportive of all of the government
policies have happened that are happening.
I like that he says that's how it works like it's even before
you I just want to say he says it's like a logical through
line like he just says that like that makes sense even before
you get to that point.
It's like it's a multiplayer game that everything it's abstracted
out of the context of everything that was happening in any
real war that may or may not have happened in that setting
and not functioning as an arm of the Nazi party.
Well, no, every time you play every time you play El Alamein
in a World War two game, the Nazis have to lose.
Yes, and they're not allowed to win by the game.
The game automatically makes Nazis loose.
Also, this is the thing your audience.
This is what they think their audience is fucking retarded.
We don't have to be told that not literally every German was
a Nazi that goes without saying well, that should be like
obvious.
Yes, obviously responsibility to teach us history before
starting to play a multiplayer match as chat as pointed out
as well.
I didn't catch the name.
So you let's just say you play a modern post-apocalyptic civil
war.
No, maybe not post-apocalyptic.
Let's just say a civil war starts in America and it's a
game you're playing in two factions or let's actually I
want to make this a little bit more suitable.
So let's just say war in a distant European country and
Americans are a faction and then this guy says okay.
Well, you know to stay consistent when you choose to play
as the Americans if they're wearing an American flag and
they're an extension of the American government, they are
a Republican and they are fully in favor of Trump.
That's as simple as it is.
That's how it works.
Yeah, every United every US soldier that you play in any
game that takes place at whatever time like modern warfare
and we play if you play Call of Duty modern warfare than
every one of those soldiers is personally endorsing and
supportive of the president and all of his policies.
You know in America, I don't know the rules are elsewhere,
but you're basically if you're in the military, you're not
allowed to wear your uniform at like political events or
political rallies or anything like that.
And during the our government meetings the Chiefs of staff
for the military, they're not allowed to like clap or anything
for the president.
They always have to remain basically like neutral.
So this is a this this argument is really really dumb.
It's not just dumb.
It's an argument.
It's a little bit harmful to like to sort of categorize
soldiers and policy this way.
It's like this is really really not educational like to me
if anything the fact that they're so mechanically identical
in games gives the impression that the Nazis were just people
to the Germans were just yes, which and that humanizes them
which is a good thing because ultimately the humans they
are human and you can treat that as either a warning for
a potential.
Oh, if they were human and I'm human and look what happened
to them. So, you know, we need to keep history in mind,
you know, but it's also the sense of if you start do you
know, you can't just dehumanize people because you know,
that's what the bad people you hate did.
So you're going to have to have some kind of consistency.
It's okay the other way because of their wrong.
Okay, that's right.
Yeah, I was going to say in fairness all of our counterarguments
here with us because the Nazis were really bad while everything
else isn't as bad as the Nazis being really bad.
Okay, and are functioning as an arm of the Nazi government
then unless the game goes also functioning as an arm of
the Nazi government.
That's pretty like how far does that go?
Like what about a janitor in some school in Nazi occupied
janitor is leaning Nazi.
He's an extension of their policies.
So that was an arm of the Nazi ideological propaganda education
system. How embarrassing is personally responsible.
He should be shot and imagine.
He was like, no, no, we just mean people who are directly
involved in the warfare itself.
It would be like but like I want.
Oh, do you know what?
So does Hitler not count?
He was about to make in the bombs and the bullets and stuff
and factories that should they be killed?
Like are they Nazi?
No, not killed right?
Just hated.
Oh, okay.
Just hate them.
I think that's yeah, it's more than fair.
They're functioning as an arm of the Nazi government then
unless the game goes out of its way to tell you specifically
that your these people just think their audience is stupid.
I like that.
This one just didn't work though.
Like this did work for literally anybody.
10% is it possibly hard to get as a ratio on YouTube?
I'm not kidding.
If you asked people to get your video to a 10% ratio, you
probably couldn't do it.
Yeah, because that multiplayer shooter when it switched you
to sorry, it does get me ahead a little bit.
You specifically that your particular character is not a Nazi
and they're a Nazi in that multiplayer.
Sure.
When it switched you to the German side, did it go out of its
way to tell you that the person you're playing was pressed into
service under threat of it?
Why was it?
Oh my god.
Could you imagine the person you're playing as doesn't want to
be here.
You're like, okay, is it?
Yeah, I know what wants to be.
It's like no one wants to be here.
This is war.
It's shit.
No one wants to be here.
I like that they've got this sympathetic sad face man being
like he was false to do this.
Look at the players face though, like get the fuck off my
screen.
Yeah, it's like only play the fucking game.
Oh, I want to kill streaks.
I want to get better at this game.
I want to be competitive.
I want to play with my friends.
I want to have fun.
I just I picture right so let's let's pretend this scenario
plays out without this helpful little fucking this guy's
reminiscent of the paperclip from Microsoft Word, but let's
just say he's not there and then the extra credits man comes
into this kid's room.
He's like, do you know you're playing us kids?
Like I'm a Nazi.
I think he's like five years old in this scenario for some
reason like, do you know that they're bad?
He's like, nope.
And then he just looks at the screen.
He goes this needs to stop.
This needs okay, then the entire problem is solved by a single
conversation that everyone clapped like I can guarantee
you that not one single human being on the planet was
converted to Nazism because they played Call of Fucking Duty.
It's so the concept to these people that something can be apolitical
just doesn't exist.
The idea that you can have a game where Nazis and Germans are
just essentially themes that create a create a themed multiplayer
and that's literally as deep as it goes.
It's just it's not part.
They just can't comprehend.
They can't wrap their heads around that.
And even if you build it from the ground up so neutrally you
like buildings ground units members of this faction, they can
shoot at each other.
It's been normal in multiplayer games for ages for decades.
This has been happening and no one has ever had an issue and
then all of a sudden people are being treated like they're
idiots because this is the case.
Also that Nazi has an M1 grand and that bothers me.
It's multiplayer though.
I think rags would be more considerable historical accuracy
than telling this kid that Nazis are bad.
I'll maybe picked it up mostly it doesn't actually it doesn't
actually bother me because you know, it's multiplayer, but
there are some games where you know, the Germans start with
German weapons, the Americans are with American weapons,
British start with British weapons and you know, it's kind
of thematically cool.
You know, it's kind of nifty.
I like stuff like that.
I think like David for me was like that or if you were on the
Nazi side, then you would start with a few parties and I just
wanted to unlock the PPSH and will it war is so good.
Such a spray a destroy weapon, but I think people would hate
you because you know, it's a noob wet.
It is that the person you're playing was pressed into service
under threat of their life.
Yeah, that's a big old.
Nope.
Oh and on a similar note, let's please stop forcing people
to play as terrorists as well.
There you stop forcing people to play as terrorists.
Yeah, when I played a Medal of Honor 2010 multiplayer, I
immediately was like, you know, I'm converting to Islam and
I'm blowing up buildings now.
The bomb has been planted.
Does he think that the terrorists think they're terrorists?
I hope that they never play a game that takes place during
the Revolutionary War.
I just like the idea that you have the say quote unquote
the enemy faction make a video game and then it pauses you
whatever you play as the American slash terrorists and it
tells you about how bad they are that extra credit would
be like, I know this is in line with what we're talking
about.
Yeah.
Oh wait.
No, no, no, no, you got it backwards.
You're the bad guys and then they're like, okay, I don't
care if I'm better than I just play the game.
You know, so he hasn't actually explained what the issue
with all of this is yet.
I'm sure he's just saying develop.
He's just saying stop it.
No, just also.
Yeah, just highlighted chat.
They bought the game.
How is this forcing them?
They literally paid for this experience.
They know what they're getting into.
I typically would assume.
Yeah, Jesus.
Oh, oh, and on a similar note, let's please stop forcing
people to play as terrorists as well.
There you are playing your modern shooter.
You ever just want to tell people to go and fuck themselves?
Dude, imagine being playing like the newest cool dude.
You have loads of fun than PvP or whatever.
This guy's sitting on the sofa with you.
He's like, hey rags.
Did you know you're playing as a terrorist?
Yeah, that kind of makes you a terrorist.
Oh, like this is why I don't invite you over George.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll keep that in mind this side.
This guy sounds like he's great at parties like Super Smash
Bros.
I stopped forcing me to play as an Italian plumber.
Yeah, you're appropriate the culture.
I might go underneath your sink and check for leaks.
I'll just do that.
Yeah, just do that.
And besides, did you pay for that experience or did they
force you?
Be honest.
Don't lie to me.
Oh, nine.
Oh, nine.
Rags get defeated.
People to play as terrorists as well.
There you are playing your modern shooter and all the sudden
you're a terrorist.
You didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this.
What do you mean you didn't choose it?
You might have.
It's so blatant.
You're even called the terrorists.
If the teams are balanced, you get the choice.
I mean the fact that the game labels one side as terrorists
is kind of like, okay.
Yeah, you're the terrorist.
You're the counter terrorist thematically.
It works in the game because you have small-scale one team
is trying to blow up a random box in the middle of nowhere
for whatever reason and the other team is trying to stop
them.
Okay.
This is such a mainstream game too.
Like Call of Duty, Counter-Strike, some of the most popular
games that have existed and they've been around for ages
and they're like, yeah, all of this.
This has been a problem this whole time.
It says terrorists win.
Think of the children.
The children that shouldn't even be playing the game.
I don't want to think about children though.
Choose this and yet second first, same as the first, there
it is.
I mean, that's literally the name of your side in the game.
Yeah, we see it.
Yeah, even if you put it to better all of the people who
have had traumatic experiences with these groups who have
lost my love.
I don't care about why this seems awfully biased.
I don't care.
I don't care about your emotional outright.
I literally could not care less about what happened to somebody
80 fucking years.
Is there a faction on this planet that has not caused any
trouble for any person ever?
No, every single if you want to if you want to analyze it
to an anal degree, every country has done bad things.
I mean, how do you think these people would react to playing
civilization?
Dear God, when when when Gandhi releases the nukes, they
be like, you know what?
I thought people were peaceful.
I just I made the mistake.
Look, I just I just don't care.
I'm just I'm just over the Holocaust.
Yeah, it's just bad.
Yeah, sure.
I get it.
I don't care.
What if you forget Rags forever again?
I love this guy throwing them up as like a defense though.
I doubt he has any like any personal ties to any relations
to someone who was hurt by the Holocaust or anything like
that. No, he's going to bring it up.
I'm sure he's speaking for them.
Well, this is just think of the children just a set of
children. It's think of the victims out there of actual
terrorism.
How do you think most of which are dead at this point?
Anyway, so what are the people who died trying to fight the
Nazis who were Jim and what about all the high-ranking
officers that died when they wanted to organize the
assassination of Hitler?
Multiple times do we care about them?
No, let's just every faction has I mean, that's what this
is the thing.
One of the comments that I read was a man is like you're
just being forced to place the Americans.
So what if you're the victim of some American incident?
What if you're Native American or what if you're Vietnamese
or something and maybe an American did something bad to
your country or something like that and you're forced to
place the Americans like they they frame it as Nazis and
terrorists in this video, but every country and every faction
committed some kind of atrocity at some kind or at some time
to somebody so this is literally everybody literally
everything is problematic in some way and they're pulling
out these these hypothetical victims of terrorist attacks
and it's not him.
He's pulling up other people.
He's saying oh, I have to be offended on their behalf.
It looks like he's going on to a different point, but he
threw this in as a sort of like hey, you know, I do know
these people exist and if we ignore this and it's like
you've ignored a shit-ton mate.
This isn't the only thing you're ignoring.
Okay, you brought this up almost if kind of feels like points
for his argument, he's trying to bring this in as like hey
people were made upset and you know, their lives potentially
ruined by these events.
It's like yeah, a lot of people's lives are affected.
They don't have to play the game.
I know this is the thing you draw it back and you're like
we're talking a fucking video game here.
Like what the hell?
Put aside all of the people who have had traumatic experiences
with these groups who have lost loved ones to terrorists
or who have had generations of their families wiped out by
Nazis. No one should have to put on the car.
I'm sorry.
Do you really think like I know you just talked about it,
but like do you think America have never done anything that
could possibly upset these the countries these people come
from by the same for literally every faction or just America
or we're we're American and British in this podcast man,
like we're like our country that done terrible things in
the past every just like every country ever.
So it's like where there is no line to be drawn every
country is just as guilty by this very same principle.
Yeah, we need to we need the biographies of everything for
every faction every time you pick them and need a whole
movie.
It all explained and then he goes do you understand now now
you can enjoy the mechanics of this video game where it's
just a competition to see who's the better shooter and the
smarter shooter.
You just need to understand all of those things every American
soldier in a World War two game is personally supportive
and is endorsing Japanese internment camps.
Absolutely, especially if they wear the American flag and
they are extension of the American Army policy, whatever.
Absolutely.
This guy's logic is flawless.
So we have to make sure we go by it.
No one should be forced to know and should be forced to do
that.
It's like the video saying that context and abstraction
just don't exist.
You can extract an event outside of its content original
context for a different purpose.
That's that's not a real thing that happens.
What's going on with the guys here by the way?
This is a weird person.
This is a weird person haircut.
Don't if you're in the real world like these people aren't
don't wear your hair like that.
I promise you it looks terrible.
What's going on with his fingers?
Well, he has two.
He has two right hands.
This presentation by the way, the PvP game is like hey, I've
got you a Nazi outfit because obviously that's how they want
to portray in this video and then you the players like no,
I don't want to be a Nazi fashionable.
Look at that.
They are they look spiffy and the idea that putting the
Nazi outfit on you the player not the you the character in
the game like people just want to shoot.
They don't give a shit.
If you want to go to this degree, by the way, you should
probably get to the point where you teach them about how
guns were made and what damage they do to bodies and how
killing people is actually wrong going to be desensitized
to that.
This is insane.
How far do you take this or who have had generations of
their families wiped out by Nazis?
No one should have to put on the costume of an ideology.
They find abhorrent without actually they don't I'm sorry.
How does this not apply to literally everything?
I don't understand.
Yeah, they don't well, they don't have to they're not
forced to that you're literally opting into that by buying
the game if a uniform means you subscribe to the ideology
almost at that point.
Like does everyone understand fully the ideology behind
every faction they've ever played in every video game?
No, oh, it's not even every faction.
I mean imagine going to Walmart and putting on that Walmart
uniform.
You are now in support of everything Walmart has ever done.
They forced you are you didn't your arm of the Walmart
Board of Directors.
Whatever they've done with a ball that flag on your shoulder.
You know from my experiences of going to Walmart and looking
at the employees who all look on the verge of suicide.
I'm pretty sure none of them care about Walmart.
No, that's not true.
They have the uniform on and I was going to say what the fuck
that's true.
They want to believe you or this genius in this video teaching
us about life.
I absolutely love being treated like shit.
Not just shit a dumb shit.
You know, you're an absolute fucking idiot.
These people do think no one should have to put on the costume
of an ideology.
They find abhorrent by the way, they don't have to play the
fucking game or use support.
They don't have to play the game.
Yeah, I do.
They have they're forced to it surprises me that a Holocaust
survivor slash person who's lost someone to the Holocaust
would want to pursue playing a game about World War two and
then to the point where they would be horrified to see Nazis
in any way shape or form in the game.
I just be like, what are you doing playing it in the first
place?
What did you expect from this?
That argument six entire video.
As the Volkswagen was made by Hitler, which means that people
who make by them are evil, which means that I am evil and
I've got bad news.
If you're driving down the Autobahn.
Wait, wait, wait.
Did Hitler breathe oxygen?
He liked animals too.
If you like animals, you're literally he was an artist.
Art has to go out.
It goes.
We can get rid of that one, right?
We don't need art.
He had facial hair.
Oh God.
He was alive.
I think I covered that with oxygen.
But yes, do we need to frame all games and all media and
all entertainment with the idea that it is the the people out
there who have PTSD or the people out there who are personally
involved with these issues who should essentially determine
the content of that media for everybody else?
I mean, is that is that really the world?
Do you want to create that every scenario and setting and
theme and any kind of media needs to be done with the understanding
that some people could be upset.
So we have to change it for everybody.
I mean, at the very least, it'd be nice to hear, you know, those
people making that argument themselves instead of this guy
claiming to speak for them, which is great.
That's also pretty awkward because you probably find a lot
of survivors of XY and ZB and like Jesus Christ, mate, like
this is not what we would want.
Yeah, like you go out to the relative of a Holocaust survivor
or a Holocaust survivor or something to that effect and you
go, did you know there's a video game and and you can play
as a Nazi and they don't even tell you explicitly that the
Nazis were horrible and they'd be like doesn't everyone know
that it's like apparently not the makers of the game didn't
know that apparently because if they did they would have
put a giant fucking PSA at the beginning of it.
Well, the game has to tell you the game is obliged to tell
you hit we liked Disney.
Well, rip Disney.
Well, in fairness, I guess Disney is kind of like Nazi ish
Nazis.
No one should have to put on the costume of an ideology.
They find abhorrent without actually opting into it in your
game and by making people do yeah, we know what when you
purchase the game and then choose to play the multiplayer
in which the rules are set would be opting in.
Yeah, you chose to buy the game.
You chose to play the multiplayer of that game.
I don't know man, like you've had to make a lot of decisions
up to this point.
You just blissfully unaware.
You just wake up and you're playing a World War II multiplayer
game as the Nazis is that you had no control over your life
and over your scenario.
That's a big lefty thing like the individual has no agency.
It wasn't up to them anything bad that happens to them.
All it was the product of their environment.
It was someone else's decisions.
You don't have any personal agency.
So we have to take care of you for you because you clearly
can't do it yourself.
And by making people do so we get them to stop thinking
about it to stop thinking of the meaning behind these things.
We stop knowing everything behind these things no one ever
started to think about the meaning of these things.
It wasn't like we were and then we stopped like it was never
ever a thing that was ever thought about because it's so
obviously on its face.
It's just a multiplayer game and it's themed for World War
II. So one sides German one sides American and that's it.
That's literally as far and as deep as it has ever gone.
I'm sure to think of like if you could demonstrably prove
like you had this let's just call him 18 year old who was
like Nazis are the worst thing on the fucking planet and
then in a controlled environment.
He just plays loads of FPS games where Nazis are portrayed
equally to any other soldier faction and then he comes out
the other end like I don't see how that even could change
your perspective on Nazis could be like oh there's no information
on anybody here.
I'm just playing war games with with them and well not
thematically just historically accurate factions.
If anything it would normalize them as people and it wouldn't
normalize them in an ideological perspective because their
ideology and their politics have nothing to do with the
multiplayer component.
It's entirely military based.
It's you know shooting guns and driving tanks and imagine
calling out enemy positions.
There's nothing political there.
Imagine that soldier stuff doing that as the Nazi team
being like shit man.
They're not like doing things that are that dissimilar from
the team that I'm you know the good guys.
It's like yeah because that's kind of how it went in a lot
of pieces of warfare.
They were dudes that were constricted conscripted to fight
against you guys just like you guys in reverse not like I
can't believe that is so bad to realize that not everybody
in Germany wanted to take over the world.
What did Germany ever do to these guys?
Understand like right.
Why are we hoping to demonize so hard and I guess that's
his point that we're losing that specifically I wouldn't
maybe we are losing that overall but fucking out blaming
FPS games.
I'd be like I doubt that's the issue and I don't know that
it's an issue fully.
It's just you know Nazis like ubiquitous with like words
of basically just it's like the worst thing you can be that's
like how people understand that word.
You're Nazi.
It's the worst thing ever.
Again for a first-person shooter in a multiplayer setting
the aesthetic and setting are they're literally just there
as vessels for your hitbox and your gun so that you can play
the game against other people.
Yeah, you'll find out beyond that in a multiplayer setting a
lot of the player base are more concerned with balance and
mechanics being effective rather than I hope this is the
game that I don't know Nazis are more sympathetic because
I prefer those ones have been gradually a doctor is like
no, they don't really care.
Well, what you do is you essentially make practically
every conflict.
Just a no-go for a video game.
Like the Vietnam War fought you're not going to have that
and as a theme the Korean War you're not going to have
that as a theme is Civil War.
I'll fight you now and definitely not going to have that
like every war there is some component to it that they
would find objectionable and they would make the game so
bad it was as a result and so preachy that people wouldn't
want to play him.
Because you can't just play game with the theme of a war
that happened with the historical context to it.
You just can't do that.
You can't just stop there.
You can't just have fun with a video game.
You can't do that.
I'll be evil.
That would be terrible.
You can't just have fun with a video game.
To stop thinking about it to stop thinking of the meaning
behind these things.
There is no meaning normalize them.
We make them just window dressing their entertainment.
Technically speaking that is true.
They're the entertainment boiled down.
You would have take all the colors and designs away.
It's like models running around with mechanics that are
efficiently done through coding.
Like that's the real thing that's happening.
The dressing is to give you an environment that you're familiar
with or at least are aware of being accurate to whatever.
The idea that it's like this is just windowed.
They've treated Nazis as window dressing.
It's like kind of yeah, and it's like I don't know if that
I'm confused.
So if you go to like a museum and you see a Nazi uniform and
so I don't even do that.
Do we do that anyway right now actually?
Yeah, yeah.
So if you go to like I was at DC at the Smithsonian and they're
like, oh, yeah, here's an MP 40 and here's German stuff and
you know, here's a tank or whatever.
Isn't that kind of normalizing them?
Isn't that really bad?
Isn't that tuning in?
I know all they do.
Can you believe for some of this Nazi stuff or like this is
an MP 40 sub machine gun.
It held this many rounds.
It shot this caliber and it was produced in these numbers.
Can you believe they were normalizing the Nazis?
Jesus.
Just just just explaining.
Oh, did they anticipate the horrors?
I collect money.
One of my things I collect is like money historical currency.
I've got communist money.
I've got Nazi money with swastika and everything on it.
I mean, it's just it is what it is, man.
It's just a just a coin.
It's a uniform and it's just ridiculous.
Better stock up on those Nazi coins.
You know, they're coming back.
Imagine let's say you went to the Smithsonian Museum of History.
I think they got a big they got a big section there about like
military history.
They got some crazy shit in there, but they've got you know,
the World War two section.
And so of course they got the world.
They've got all the worst and they got all these artifacts
and relics and stuff like that.
And I can just imagine every time there was a British musket
or a Hessian uniform or a German radio or anything like that.
They had to write on the plaque.
Also remember that Nazis were very bad and immoral and they
did bad things to Jews and they were aggressors in this war
like how how patronizing and insulting that would be to
everybody who walked into the museum.
You know, just imagine that every single plaque or remember
guys, the Nazis were the bad guys.
Just just see do you remember Nazis are bad.
You guys have seen V for then.
That's right.
Yeah, does Stephen Fry in his collection of like, you know,
not allowed items was anything Nazi related in that?
So I remember he had a Quran and a bunch of other things
because like the point of the film is that everything is
pretty much not allowed anymore.
Like he's got this collection of amazing like things that
you're just not allowed to even see to the idea that the
presentation alone of a Nazi uniform is normalizing Nazis.
Like pay a lot more proof is needed to, you know, actually
verify that.
Some normalizing knowledge.
I was just seeing if anybody knew because I yeah, I'd have
to watch the scene again, but I just.
And we are addressing for entertainment those uniforms
those symbols become things that no longer inherently revolt.
Can you believe that you aren't inherently revolted by a Nazi
uniform that's not even as we pointed out is still used today.
You should be revolted by it.
Can I ask how this is a bad thing?
I was going to say like maybe you shouldn't be revolted
immediately by inanimate objects.
Can I then from there say that this reminds me of the what
was it five minutes hate in 1984 where you're supposed to
see a thing and then immediately trigger a visceral hatred
of that thing until the entire crowd's up in a frenzy.
This part of the video does it does imply the idea that you
shouldn't think critically or be able to analyze things
objectively.
You should just look at something and be revolted by it.
That's the that's the proper response to have to be revolted
by it.
Not that it's bad to be revolted by what the Nazis did, but
we're talking about just looking at symbols.
It's a terrifying concept.
This whole idea that you can't look at a uniform.
It's clothes that people wore at one point in history is
like, what do you just want to learn about it?
What it is what everything on their means?
Why was why was this like that?
Why was that like this?
What were the reasons behind its design?
Also, is this hard to be that effectively if you're supposed
to be instantly revolted by it?
Can you imagine going to a museum for war and someone sees
a Nazi uniform they go, yeah, and they run out of the place.
You'd be like, are you a child?
Is this a problem for historians too?
Like when they're doing their study and such like and going
about the writing of their work.
Is it is it bad that they don't immediately like open up
and Nazi archive or something and go?
I mean, look at the look at the image.
They got that guy's green in the face.
Tongue is out.
Yeah, five-year-old.
He has like if you want to learn if you want to think critically,
maybe you should put your emotions, you know, on the backburner
for a moment and then just analyze what you're looking at.
You think that this is like some weird projection and that
these guys are very concerned because they're starting to
empathize with Nazis and they're like, oh god, how did this
happen?
It was the video games.
It was the video games forms those symbols become things
that no longer inherently just a helmet man.
They reduce our visceral reaction to seeing the involved.
I mean a lot of modern helmets look just like those Nazi
helmets because yeah, because the Wehrmacht's helmets were
really good.
They were really well-designed.
But hey, I get old ass.
Here's the thing too.
A lot of the German equipment was very well-designed.
They had a lot of very intelligent engineers.
They did a lot of smart stuff.
So if our instant reaction is to be, you know, repulsed and
to revile these things just instantly, then does that mean
we're not allowed to take the things the Nazis made or the
Germans made in 1940s and use it for our own purposes?
I mean, can we not use, you know, Nazi rocketry information?
Can we not use their military technology?
Dude, you should literally throw up on the blueprints.
I mean, what if what I mean, if the Nazis came up with a cure
for cancer, then yeah, sorry.
On the cure for cancer.
Germany should have just stopped using the Stauhelm after
World War II.
You know, it's a Nazi symbol.
You know, these two faces, like if you turn the guy with
a tongue thing and it goes down to the thinking emoji, I'd
be like, seems like a good progression.
Like that we've managed to come far enough from the event
now to be like, okay, actually think critically about the
entire thing.
You can't consider that.
I think it's good to consider literally everything about
things.
Again, the fact that he's advocating for sticking with a
specific knee-jerk reaction to iconography completely out
of context fucking terrifies me.
I know.
Do you guys think, can you guys think of any sort of faction
that encouraged a disgust towards like just a group of people
that had something that unified them?
No one would ever do that.
No, I can't think of anybody who'd do that.
Could be anyone.
Monument of these ideologies.
Now, does this make us totally ignore the history that comes
with them?
No, but for some people, it moves them from the...
Edgy.
There's usually a little...
Some people are stupid.
Yeah, yeah.
His eyes peering behind the rock.
Here's the thing too.
A lot of people are edgy because they know it makes fucking
insufferable morons like you upset and that brings them
pleasure because you make videos like this are why people
try to be edgy because they know it will bother you because
you're a simpleton.
Dude, you go from disgusted lad to edgy lad.
Like how fucking childish is this?
Look at knee jerk disgusted land over there being treated
like the safe space again.
That's fucking scary.
You're supposed to this is how you're supposed to be.
You're supposed to be over there in the world where everyone
is disgusted and repulsed instantly by Nazi symbology.
Don't go over there at a critical thinking world.
I also want to highlight that they treat going over the edge
as like something you can't even come back from.
It's a cliff.
This is like really this is the exact same kind of religious
indoctrination that you might get as a child.
Only with Nazis.
Bill T.
Gishap in chat does the Stahlhelm helmet he showed was invented
in World War One.
It's not a Nazi symbol in the slightest.
Nope, not the Stahlhelm has been in use for long before.
No, but a Nazis used it.
How dare the Nazis make something that's effective at his job?
Routed animal in chat.
I went over the edge.
I'm so sorry.
There's no coming back.
You're done.
Can you believe the Nazis wanted to prevent their soldiers
from potentially dying of head trauma?
That's such a Nazi thing to do Rags.
Such a Nazi thing to do.
The worst part is they look good at it.
Just the history that comes with them.
No, but for some people it moves them from the territory
of revolting to just edgy.
It makes strongly a swastika.
What's wrong with change from unthinkable to just dangerous?
No, that's not edgy.
Stop.
No one draws a swastika.
Those two are stupid.
If there's a difference between being edgy and going out
and ruining property by spraying things on them and the
reason people spray swastikas on things is because of people
like you who will just fucking react like this idea.
Yeah, that's why they do it because people like you like
they're not actually Nazis.
They just want to get a reaction out of you.
It makes strolling a swastika on why you why is he graffiti
a swastika on an animal tiger?
Why?
Yeah, who the fuck would do that?
Why is it unthinkable?
That's why I'm thinking it's because it's edgy to I to be
fair not even I have ever considered painting a swastika
on a tiger.
I mean, I this is edgy in the sense that a bunch of sharp
edges are going to claw into his face and kill him, but
it's going to be a swastika on the animals.
Yeah, and like so and if we take him literally so he said
that it goes from being an action that you consider
unthinkable to dangerous and it's like what do you mean
by dangerous like the way we're assuming the person doing
this thinks it's dangerous.
Do you are you saying that they think it's like cool dangerous?
Is that what he's saying?
And I thought that if you if you thought this stuff was
revolting, then you wouldn't do that.
It's very oddly worded.
You go from thinking it's revolting to being edgy as if
being edgy is bad.
And it's like I like both of these interpretations.
So Foxfire said I think it's implying you'll get killed
because he only sees it as a cat instead of a tiger.
It's like, you know, he doesn't see the true danger and
semantic dragon said because they had tiger tanks.
So it's a metaphor like well, it could be both.
They used the iron cross as a representation of not or
it could just be really fucking stupid.
I just think it's an obvious sort of representation of
dangerous.
This is it would be dangerous to do this.
But it's still dumb.
You're dangerous because they'll bite you and you're just
edgy. It makes strolling a swastika on something.
I used to be a Nazi like you until I took a tiger to the knee.
It means you might not take iron crosses all over a website
as a warning sign.
But iron crosses aren't bad.
It's just hold on a minute German symbol, but now they're
explicitly saying iron crosses.
Yeah, they've made it very clear now.
They can't go back.
They've just said iron crosses.
So as this guy ever does.
Oh, I get it now.
He thinks everyone's as stupid as he is.
So I don't think he's in the history book in his life.
Dangerous.
It means you might not take iron crosses all over a website
as a warning sign that you should immediately leave.
You know, I just went to YouTube the other day and watch
this extra credits video where a bunch of iron crosses
appeared and I was like shit man, I'm getting the fuck out
of here because it's dangerous shit, but I would have if
not for playing Call of Duty and now I watch these extra
credits videos from start to finish because I no longer
take the iron cross of the Nazi seriously.
Does this not sound a little bit silly to them even a
little bit when they like imagine look back imagine you're
a German imagine you're a German and you hear this guy
saying imagine.
Yeah, this guy's like, oh, you see iron crosses and you're
not repulsed by it.
They're like, but but that's but the national symbol that
we use for a military is but what it's like this guy saying
Stars and Stripes the American flag.
Imagine seeing that not being repulsed by it.
It's like but but but that's her flag.
Why?
It's so insulting.
It's just so insulting to these people.
And surely the content of the website can be warning enough.
Well, I need to yeah.
I think the URL is the symbol that you guys check the URL
there.
Yeah.
Stupid as fuck slash hate.
Nope.
It's the symbol.
It's not the message.
It's not the meaning of what's actually happening.
Nope.
I love that the degree in which they have dubbed this down
cross bad on website of hate.com.
It's like a milk.
This video is like a propaganda film for children.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah.
That's why it fucking scares me.
It means you might not take iron crosses all over a website
as a warning sign that you should immediately leave and
if you don't leave you might start reading and buying into
hateful ideas.
There is you might start where you might start critically
thinking and some people when they think critically might
come to the wrong conclusion.
So it's best that nobody thinks critically.
If you read what your quote-unquote enemy has to say
they will influence you just maybe you'll start to think
those hateful ideas are reasonable.
You wouldn't want to do that Timmy.
I know I'm belaboring.
Does that mean that they're Nazis?
Well, it's like don't don't listen to what the other people
say.
Just go and shoot them.
Just do your job.
Just shoot them.
Don't listen to what they have to say because they'll poison
your mind comrade.
Just shoot them.
This is making me think of like the red skis shit like yeah
go to well into my eyes.
Little Timmy was in the library and he found a book in the
adult section that is like it has a hammer and sickle on it.
It's a red book and it's like oh, no Timmy's a communist.
What what's what's happening?
And then Timmy spoke with his parents and they said don't be
a communist and then everything was fine.
You have video no longer needs to exist.
You have a little cartoon hammer and sickle man on his head
with little shifty eyes on the back of his head like looking
at him and then this this poor kid.
Look at this kid guys.
Look at he's so innocent.
He doesn't know he doesn't know he's been playing his video
games.
He didn't know he didn't know someone please think of the
children for Timmy.
He was my favorite.
It seems like such a small and simple thing, but it's things
like this that erode our safeguards against ignorance is
our safeguard.
That's so fucking Orwellian.
Yeah, talking about it is bad.
1984 wasn't an instruction manual.
It's it's fascinating.
The acid of discussion finds out that he loves big brother
that wasn't supposed to be seen as a good thing.
Timmy is Don son.
He was a straight arrow that he read that book read that
goddamn book and he read then he read mine camp and it was
all downhill from there.
Blessed is the mind too small for doubt.
Guys, you need to be more ignorant.
Otherwise, you might find ideas small and simple thing, but
it's things like this that erode our safeguards against
dangers.
We sacrifice so much to fight by the time you've played a
hundred hours.
We sacrifice so much to become memes and in jokes with your
friends.
Yeah, yeah, it is like literally when I see people getting
murdered in video games.
Sometimes it's fucking hilarious.
Can be a it could be the funniest damn thing in the world.
Didn't have anybody in chat compilations of Halo deaths
because the physics engine makes people.
Oh, yeah, it's funny as hell.
Anyone on chat in this is a really fond memory.
I had so we used to play cold before there was a map and
I can't remember what the map was called.
We just play private matches where we would all run up like
there's a couple of ladders.
You go into a rooftop.
You have to prone go underneath like a turbine or something.
You throw a grenade at yourself and then you have your
friends watch you will spazz the fuck out and ragdoll to
the levels of insanity where your legs are spread across
like the entire sky and you just spin and like that we
could do it for like two hours.
Just watching our bodies go over and over again.
I remember in bad company to if you put enough explosives
under a four-wheeler, you'll fly out of the map.
That shit's just fun.
There's a lot of it all comes down to the fact that people
can distinguish between fantasy and reality and it's actually
really really easy when it comes to video games.
But it's like I said, it's like a propaganda film for children.
If you want to make all these points, how do you not make
them for violence just in general?
Well, that's another thing that the comments are one of
the obvious things is like this was the this is the Jack
Thompson argument of violent video games make people violent
and now whenever anyone says that it's like it's a meme
because it's so ridiculous.
This is the exact same thing.
Just substituting violence for something else.
Yeah, he's just he skipped over that part.
He's picked something specific.
It's just like all your arguments if we were to take him if
he was right.
Let's just say he was right when we said everything he said
is true.
Yeah, video games have to go movies have to go pretty much
everything has to go.
Abstraction has to go.
Yeah, like any kind of fantasy content has to go.
It's just like guys, it's too dangerous.
How do we know that World War two video games don't turn
people away from Nazis more than they would be attracted
to it? I mean, what if what if this entire time, you know,
World War two games were a way to get people interested in
that historical time period and as a result, they read ninety
nine point nine nine nine percent of the literature that
said yeah Nazis were ideologically really bad.
There's not exactly a lot of pro Nazi literature out there.
I played company of here is now.
I'm an American GI.
How's easy?
You're not seeing their voice stabs become memes and in
jokes with your friends by the thousandth time you respond
as a terrible either celebrating them or oh my god person.
Also, the UK is mysteriously missing also is like the throat
of energy drinks.
I think I might be out of sync with you guys.
I'm still back on him saying terrorist rule.
We're on the planet of despair right now jokes with your
friends by the thousand you got you got the throne of energy
drinks. Yeah, he said by the thousand.
Yeah, and he has a little speech bubble says terrorist rule.
I just terrorists rule when people say that it's like that's
why we're laughing at it when he says it because it's a joke
if it's so stupid to say if your kid comes away from playing
Call of Duty saying terrorists are a good thing.
You failed as a parent.
Yeah, it ain't the video game.
It ain't the video game.
Yeah.
Time you respond as a terrorist.
You're either celebrating them or making the global crisis.
We have that takes thousands of lives every year.
Oh my god.
What do we do?
That's easy.
Don't make them morally.
They're not.
They're not morally equivalent to player game.
There's no moralizing.
There's none.
It's all completely just it's a Baltimore game.
Go shoot the other team out fight the enemy team with the
game capture objectives score points.
That's what are the what are the most the morality of chess
tell me patriarchy.
I got another one is objectively better.
The soldiers are sacrificed in favor of race war sacrifice
all the lowly soldiers in favor of keeping the higher ranks
alive.
It's all it's nepotism.
You got the point, right?
It's like you can't it's like chess is saying something is
one side is good.
One side is bad.
You're like, well, yeah, it's in support of monarchy.
I mean you have a king a queen everybody.
The Queen's the most powerful.
You can't deny it people on the board.
Not the proletariat pawns in the front line white always
goes first.
Damn.
All right.
It was a bad example.
I'll go with something more simple pong.
What is the morality of pong?
What about connect the dots listen, it's actually really
easy pong is to white bars bouncing a white ball on a black
background, which means that the black background is behind
the scenes and less important than the white characters
playing their white game.
That's what's important.
It's all about what the whites want.
It's never about what the blacks want.
What about if I invite the colors to enable the one?
It's true.
What about if I make it all gray?
Huh?
I make it all gray and then the paddles and the ball are
slightly darker shade of gray.
Well now your game is just an F you to the colorblind and
that's ableist.
Damn it.
There's no winning everything's political guys.
Just stop making media.
All right.
I literally have a piece of paper.
I just draw a dot and then someone in the crowd goes.
Oh God, that's easy.
Don't make them morally equivalent.
Don't make there be no in-game moral difference between
your Nazis and is no moral in-game moral difference.
What's the moral in a PvP game that you're experiencing?
It's the stat is when you when you're choosing your faction
and when you choose your class, right?
You have your morality statistic and that factors in
it's like charisma in a way.
It factors into a lot of other different stats that your
character will have and the more morality you have the
better you are at everything like Edward torso wear lower
body wear picks guns ammo morality.
You can't choose it.
It's just it comes with like you can carry less ammo, but
you can have more morality or you know, maybe maybe instead
of a helmet you just get a hat but that lets you let's you
carry more morality on you, you know, that you got to balance
it out.
We go a bit further as well.
If you play as a German, you should have like yellow teeth
really bad skin.
You should be like thin and gaunt a goblin.
You should make really creepy noises.
And caricature portrayals of people you disagree with and
don't like that's a really good way to do it.
Yeah, and if you're American like screenshots of it and
put it on posters and then post them around cities.
Yeah, just to make sure everyone's aware.
That's all you need to make sure there's about them as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean it is the truth like we're just saying it's the
truth and then you know Americans and British whatever
make them really buff and really altruistic and they can
take bullets like as many as the throne of them but Germans
like even at the site of a bullet, they just go and fall
over to cowardly and they run away.
I think this works that should do it, right?
Like that that sort of solves the problem.
Good.
I'm glad that we defeated.
People will definitely play those video games.
Yeah.
Moral difference between your Nazis and your allies between
your terrorists and your counter-terrorist squads.
Someone said that you should randomly know terrorists rule
in the next Gedel.
Oh God, actually.
Yeah.
Okay, so you saying Gedel man would be in favor of terrorists.
Yeah.
Yeah, I guess he would have to say like he's been playing a
lot of Call of Duty and you know, maybe the terrorists
weren't wrong.
Terrorists rule like well, what if sometimes terrorists
do have a point and that's not saying they're justified
in what they're doing or how they're doing it.
But what if you know, what if this gets people thinking
maybe it's not just pure good versus pure evil.
Well, what's the saying one man's terrorist is another
man's Patriot that sort of thing.
Yeah.
It's a messy world an ugly reality.
This is where thinking critically comes in handy.
That's too much effort and your allies between your terrorists
and your counter terrorist squads frame PvP as a training
exercise or simply take like Jesus Christ actually like the
fact that we don't even have to do it ourselves.
I was about to say like I would do a fucking nerf fight and
he's like unironically arguing.
We should have a nerf fight.
We don't want anyone to get hurt.
I play enough PvP game.
That'd be fun.
But I wouldn't play a global to enough PvP game.
I would be insulting to the people who were in World War
Two on both sides.
You know, people actually got shot.
Analyzing the you know, what happened during that war and
again, it's like they don't think people can distinguish
between fantasy and reality.
So they have to use nerf guns and use water guns.
She water guns and people.
I don't want to play the game.
Boring they can go play the game as a training exercise or
simply take one of your non odious sides and recolor them
so that it's red versus blue.
Imagine buying a World War Two game.
So you have a World War Two campaign where you're an American
or whatever and you're killing all the evil Nazis and then
you switch to multiplayer and it's just like everyone's
literally in red versus blue and like what the fuck is this?
We're in the part of the video where he's supposed to have
like demonstrated the problem and now he's offering the solution
but he hasn't demonstrated the problem.
The closest that he's got to that is saying that Lil Timmy
said terrorist rule.
And then if it gets too bad or something, I don't know someone
hits them over the head and so stop being an edgy cunt.
We got to stop them from thinking terrorist rule.
It's simple or their parents just go dude stop and then it's
done.
Can parents really achieve such a thing?
Parents really parent.
We should step in and find out and make sure they can.
Yeah at this point.
I think we should just get the state to teach the children
regardless of the parents just take them away.
What do you guys reckon?
Yep, but I got to get this sorted because good God if I've
realized anything from this video, it's that we have problems.
We got to solve them.
And every five minutes or so other than Axis versus Allies a
good example of a game that does this is Rainbow Six Siege all
of your bomb diffusion and hostage rescue.
No, no, no taking hostage.
What is it taking hostages is not no.
Oh my God.
What are the one of the teams first off?
Let's let's skip the fact that they use like poison gas and
trip mines and bullets and they murder each other.
No, that's fine.
I mean, yeah, forget that and forget that one side like has
captured hostages.
They have to protect from an attacking team.
But you know, they're all trying to kill each other, right?
Yeah, but they're not Nazis though.
But there's yeah, but there's Germans some of the some of
them are German.
Yeah, actually, let me see if they were across rags.
Is there a cross?
German operators.
So they have GSG 9.
Are they an extended arm of the Nazi government?
No.
Blitz like who Jaeger and bandit.
So I wonder do they have the Iron Cross on their no, they
have the they have an Eagle to have the police.
And then they go and I'm not saying I learned this from
extra credits.
In fact, by having all of the characters as counter-terrorists
training for a possible threat, it highlights how real and
present of a threat that is.
And if you decide that you need to have both sides be playable,
don't make them interchangeable.
Yeah, but but that creates about what that creates balance
issues.
Yeah.
Well, this is the thing if he's talking about mechanics, he's
wrong because we need it to be balanced and fit the whole
point of a competition.
But then if he's talking about morality, I don't know what
he's referencing.
Yeah, what game out there is treating these two as morally
equivalent?
Apparently, there's an Iron Cross on the Jaeger skin in that
game.
Is there?
Yeah, then surprise me.
In that case, it's a Nazi game.
So no.
Yep, can't have that.
That's a game.
Go away.
Have players randomly spawn in as one or the other allow
players to choose which side they're on.
Now, if most games do that as far as I'm aware, they'll
have auto balancing for putting people on different sides,
but all I'm highlighting because I don't think it's a problem
team that they will each on a team that there's too many of
you can only join the team, you know, so one side doesn't
get stacked against the other, right?
Like it's 12 verse 14.
You can't join the team.
This got 14 people in it, you know, and then bam just like
that.
You're a Nazi.
It's pretty exhausting.
It's not even a long video.
It's very it's densely packed with stupidity.
What what what what?
What we're going back.
I'm afraid it's not back.
It's not even working for me right now.
I am apparently off.
So if you're joining the other team, which isn't even your
choice in most games, you have to wait longer.
What kind of retarded?
It doesn't make any sense buddy.
That's how you kill your games PvP setting.
Yeah, but at least hey listen, people can't play as Nazis
if there's no game to play.
All right, so it didn't play on my end.
So if we just let it go again, we'll make sure that the
audience because I'm pretty sure I know what your reference
like don't have players randomly spawn in as one or the
other allow players to choose which side they're on.
Now, of course, this has all sorts of in-game problems.
Yeah, creating shorter wait times for fascists.
But you know what those wait times could be artificially
extended framing that just quickly short wait times for
fascists.
Yeah shorter wait times.
Yeah, so to clarify he's I guess he's saying like people
will get into the game quicker if they're choosing if they
choose fascists quote-unquote because most people be choosing
the heroes and he's like, oh well we can inflate the wait
times for the fascists to fix that.
And nobody plays the game that you will.
This is the thing you just have like Jesus anyone else just
have the face of like what the fuck imagine waiting four
minutes to start a game.
Imagine waiting four minutes in between your games and
other people don't have to you do because you chose the
faction that they've morally decided is evil.
So the Master Chief collection failed when it were when
first launched.
People had to wait too long for matches like like four
minutes is a long ass time to just be longer than four
minutes.
Is the goal here to make it so long that everyone chooses
them with that?
No, there's just no enemy team.
Yeah, it's just like you did it.
It's just Americans.
You did it.
It's like they go.
You're not being desensitized like this.
There's also no game.
You need two factions in order for the multiplayer game to
proceed.
American versus American training.
So for okay, sure.
Will be great.
If it meant players had an active choice in what teams
they would represent.
I can still make it know people will be waiting for four
minutes.
Not like oh, this game's only been waiting for two minutes.
I still got two minutes to jump in and then wait two
more minutes to play the game two minutes is a pretty long
time to wait.
That is a long time.
Yeah.
I mean if I'm sitting in a lobby for two minutes that I'm
probably just going to jump out and find another one.
Nazis in our games.
And if you're going to say but we look at the way they draw
this guy.
Look at this.
Look at this fucking idiot.
Like, oh, you used to be accurate history.
Look at that.
Look at that belly.
Look at that disgusting face.
Yeah, how dare we care about what he's wearing a cape.
He's wearing a cape.
I don't like how Captain Purple hair here is going to really
analyze this.
Look at this dude.
We're just Cape piece of shit.
This is Theo by the way.
Yeah, sorry about the history.
And if you're going to say but we need it for historical
reasons, then your game better actually be historical.
You can't really just hide behind you called your desert
map.
Okay.
Wait, is he saying that if you if you're saying the Nazis
should be there and they should be as they are for historical
reasons, then his counter argument is okay.
If that's the way you're going with this, then you have
to have everything be historically accurate to a T.
Yeah, that's the art.
This is the same argument that they've made for years.
This is the same argument they made for battlefield one.
The same argument they made for battlefield five.
They always pull up the shitty-ass argument because I guess
in their mind, they think it's actually convincing to
some people that if you have a game that's trying to be
historically themed, essentially, if it is not 100% historically
perfect in every way, like you're watching an actual legit
recreation from a time machine, then you don't have the excuse
of saying it's historically accurate.
So fuck it.
Put AK-47s in World War One games.
Why not?
After all, you can respawn.
Zombie unicorns everywhere.
Also, they can they can drive cars.
M16s in the Civil War.
Just fucking do it.
I mean, after all, Guy A who's like, so we're going to represent
World War, whatever.
We're going to have the the accurate factions.
Let's find out who they are.
We'll have them.
And then this guy is like, okay, but you better craft each grain
of sand on Omaha Beach to the exact level of degree that
they were in real life.
Like, that seems like a jump from what I was requesting, but okay.
Stawning on me that this video is a six-minute long slippery
slope argument.
I mean, there's a lot of fallacies of this one.
Children.
I mean, yeah, I'm most comfortable with referring to it as essentially
propaganda.
Yeah.
It's kind of creepy.
I'd say this is pretty propaganda-y.
This is straight-up Orwellian-ass propaganda.
It's fucking horrifying.
Hey, but it's historical.
If that were the case, you need your PvP to at least represent
real historical events and be a realistic take-on.
What does he mean by the event?
Does he mean that one team has to win no matter what?
Like, whichever faction won in real life, they have to win in that
PvP batch?
Is that what he's saying?
Well, they do that in Battlefield 1.
There's a mode called operations and it loosely recreates certain
like campaigns and sets of battles that were in World War One.
And of course, since it's a video game, one of the sides can win and
the other side can also win.
So if it doesn't happen how it had like it did historically, then
they just play it off and say, oh, you know, we weren't able to
hold the line.
We got to fall back and regroup later or we were able to push
through the enemy forces and advance towards, you know, their
whatever it was.
I mean, no one in that that was never a problem.
It was never an issue.
This whole video is about creating an issue that doesn't exist and
then saying to solve this issue that we've created, we have to
take away creative freedom from development teams and treat
people who watch our content like their infantile idiots who
need to be propagandized.
What a shame.
What a sham on those battles.
Once you make both sides balanced, it's also no longer balanced
in what way?
Why do you keep not specifying?
Because if he's talking mechanically, it's such a meaningless
state because of course, they're supposed to be balanced
mechanically.
Every soldier reloads at the same speed, which isn't historically
accurate.
Therefore, you have no excuse to have Nazis in the World War
II game.
I don't think my gun has ever jammed in a World War II game.
No, that means we can't have Nazis because your gun never jammed.
Is he like I'm trying to do good faith here.
I'm like so the moral argument.
Is it the fact that there's no morality for either of them
means they're on the same plane of morality because yes, that's
true that you're not told whether or not they're moral characters
that you're playing as in this PvP game.
It doesn't matter.
Seems pretty neutral to me that you used to play the game.
They're on the same plane of morality because they're not on
the plane of morality.
Yeah, that's that's that's it.
It's there is this is what I mean when he says they're balanced.
I'm like, you're not talking.
They're both amoral.
They're not immoral.
They're not moral.
They're just completely removed from morality.
It doesn't even factor in.
It's pure abstractions addressing and you can't really say that
you need Nazis anymore for historical accuracy.
Oh, and once you let players get cool weapons that weren't actually
about that particular battle there.
It's also and battlefield one.
It has this I wouldn't even call it a problem, but it has this
item to it.
What is up with the people with the fucked up hair in these
cartoons, but so you have you have guns like you know, what's
the hell the hell regal which was a like an experimental submachine
gun that never saw combat and they only made like a prototype
of it or something, but it did exist during the time period.
It uses that time periods technology.
It is believable that it could have been used in some capacity
and so it's in the game and you can then they even have like
a Codex for whenever you use guns and get like 10 kills with
them or whatever you unlock a Codex entry that you could read
about the history of the weapon and the thing is if you were
to have a World War two game that didn't have Nazis in it people
would instantly know that something was wrong and they would
instantly know that something wasn't quite right.
But if you have the hell regal submachine gun in battlefield
one, nobody raises a brow because it's extremely believable
and it's accurate to the time period but no one is expecting
when you play these games to get an exact perfect 100% recreation
of only what they would use at that specific battle and whatever
these regiments had in their hands.
They're looking for the big broad things like general accuracy
of firearms for the time period.
Yeah, not like fucking ray guns.
We're not yes.
It's just like it's so it's so fucking dumb is like if you
had a World War two game and they had a gun in that you could
use that didn't come out until 1945 at the very very end of
the war like the like like in World War in battlefield one
you can get the but basically the prototype predecessor of
the Thompson submachine gun that wasn't really used at all.
But it's fine.
No one cares because it's accurate to the time period.
It was made with the technology that existed at the time.
It's just such a stupid false equivalence.
It's being made here like oh you have a gun that wasn't actually
at that battle.
Therefore, you can't have one of your factions in the game.
Like those are even comparable.
It's all or nothing with these SJW types.
Why would all or nothing used as to why you would like from
what we've heard from this guy.
Why would you even consider it a valid argument historical accuracy?
Wouldn't you just be like it's more important that we spread
the message that will lead us to a more moral and upstanding
position in society rather than telling you know, he's so focused
on treating these people despite acknowledging that everyone
was affected.
Well, he acknowledges that one side was affected all the other.
I'm just like, you know, we're going to brush over all of the
humanity of the evilman's and yet he's like, okay, you want
to make this historical action.
That's fair enough, but you know, you got to make everything
accurate at that point.
I just like why even entertaining this argument if you're that
kind of guy who wants to literally pave over the Nazis as anybody
associated with them was a morally reprehensible piece of shit.
Video games have as one of their incredible benefits is that
video games can get people interested in historical themes
and settings and events that the otherwise wouldn't have known
about. I guarantee that after Battlefield 1 came out, there
was a huge increase in interest for World War 1 history because
growing up normally World War 1 is almost always overshadowed
by World War 2.
But you put this stuff in a video game and millions and millions
of people buy it and play it and all of a sudden hey now I
want to learn about what happened.
What were the politics of this event that caused it to happen?
What was the technology or the tactics?
What was the development of arms and equipment and armor and all
this stuff and you can use video games as that vehicle to
get people interested in this stuff, but that doesn't mean
they have to be these perfect, you know, authoritative sources
on the history of these events.
Okay, he's, I was going to raise that.
Oh wait, I think the, is it playing with you guys?
Yeah, I just paused it.
I'm going to try and rejoin the watch together.
It's been tisming for a while.
All right, I put it back to 420 and he blazed it.
There you are playing the PvP in World War 2 shooter and all
of a sudden you're a Nazi.
Well, I can't get more than 420.
Like this was the argument that people made for like when they
when they when they were bitching about how there's no female
soldiers in World War 1.
They were complaining.
Oh, well, you can respawn.
You can literally come back from the dead.
So there's no excuse.
You know, watch together has been a bitch.
Why not?
Let me see the video.
Hmm.
Work you bastard.
Don't even watch together doesn't want to watch this stupid
fucking video.
I can't necessarily blame watch together.
I'm going to see if I can make a new room to fix this problem.
Oh wait, Charlie, Charlie made a good comment.
He said ironically rags.
That's the tangent that that is tangential learning the very
thing extra credit started their channel for.
It's very true.
This video is in direct contrast to a lot of their older stuff.
Were we sorry so I can I can drag it.
Hopefully then put it on for 20.
Yeah, just put on for 20 and then give it a second for it to
catch up for us.
Watch together you being an asshole.
Give it a second.
So how's the weather team but it's loading and let me let me
reload myself to let play for me weapon for 19.
All right, you want to if you drag it to for 19 rags and
then play.
Hopefully it's it for 19.
Okay, I'll drag it to for 19 do it.
I want to be useful and press play.
Let players get cool weapons that weren't actually at that
particular battleground.
It's also no longer historically accurate and you can't
declare that your game will suffer if you don't put player.
We still be good for the thing going.
It's for you to right now.
You're still running.
Would you say for 42 for 32?
Oh, I was at for 29 probably roll it back.
If you can just to make sure I don't miss anything on my end
because you know, we're going to make sure everything comes
through with was wow, you guys cut their argument in half.
It'll happen.
It'll wash together one up and it's trying to here we go.
It will suffer though.
That's what's so interesting is that people spic no pause,
but that's something that people explicitly say when they review
these games and when they talk about these games is that there
is something that's so obviously historically wrong with this
that it ruins their immersion for the game and people say this
all the time and this extra credits video is like oh, this
is you claims that it will ruin it is like it does.
That's just some people say all the time.
It's like when I it's like if you see black female Nazis in
your World War two game is like yeah for a lot of people that
really kind of takes them out of it.
I'm going to open up a new room because it's being asshole.
Hopefully this fixes it.
If it doesn't we'll see about what happens next.
We'll use an alternative their alternatives to watch together.
That is true.
Rabbits shit.
Yeah, not rabbit.
It's an alternative.
Isn't it?
That's yeah, there's other ones though.
Okay, rags you jumping in.
Bam bam bam bam bam.
All right, Jack Sparrow featuring Michael Bolton.
There you are.
Fucking opening.
Okay, is everyone at 425?
I'm it once.
It's almost like this might be a watch together problem.
Actually, it seems to be slow spooling for everybody.
Here we are at 425.
The plane.
Yeah, that's the thing your game will suffer if you don't do these people do these people not think that people will complain if in a World War two game multiplayer you can't play as the Germans like obviously people will be insanely upset that will be that would be in that would be the dumbest thing you could possibly do that will kill your game.
No, nobody would ever make a World War two game with multiplayer where you were not allowed to play as the Germans.
Like that would be insane unless it was focused in the Pacific.
We're obviously talking about European theater here, but then it's just the same problem with the Japanese.
So no.
Once your map is something carefully designed to have good gameplay by a team in a room in San Francisco or LA and it's not a faithful reconstruction of the actual places the historical events occurred in.
You can no longer say we need to have players take up arms in service of terror.
Oh, my God, this guy's a fucking insufferable cunt.
So much wrong with what you just said.
Oh, my God.
I don't usually I don't tell people to kill themselves, but I mean, I think he should seriously consider.
I think you have said that.
Yeah, it's good.
All right.
So, yeah, you have you actually it's if so, let's say that I don't know what the the fuck it what's a what's a famous let's say that I've never been to Iwo Jima.
I don't know anything about the island.
I don't know its layout is geography and I play a game that World War Two where you are a marine expeditionary force and you're fighting the Japanese on Iwo Jima and I step foot onto the white sandy beaches of Iwo Jima and fight into the the jungles and the woods and I fight the Japanese.
But then all right, but then later somebody tells me, oh, but Iwo Jima was a volcanic island.
The sands were very dark black.
There were the sand that Iwo Jima wasn't actually white sand.
I would go, oh, that's interesting.
But when I played that in the video game, I didn't know that.
And so it didn't take me out of the immersion at all.
You don't have to have a 100 percent faithful recreation of things, especially if those things are things that pretty much.
Nobody knows.
That's why people are fine with the hell regal being in World War One.
But they would not be OK with AK-47s being in World War One.
There's degrees to these kinds of things in terms of abstraction.
I find it creepy that he always had his mouth taped over in this image.
I find it creepy how I'm being portrayed as some kind of psychopath for liking history.
Like, did you see the look on the guy's face when he was constructing the replica of?
Yeah, he's like a crazy person.
It's fucking trembling and swaying.
He looks horrifying.
Sorry for liking history.
And this person's smiling while they're like, be silent.
Yeah, it's like Lime Zero says in the chat.
It's like the spirit of the whole thing, not exact details of historical accuracy.
I mean, looking at this picture, I don't know how someone could draw this
and not feel disturbed by what they just drew.
It's like, shut up, idiot.
You don't have the exact architectural layout of,
I don't know, this this French village or whatever.
So that means you can't have a battle there in your World War Two game
unless you to the inch.
Or to the centimeter, I guess that'd be nailed down,
you know, this town, because if it's not exactly how it was in the real world,
then you can't have not.
You can't say that you can't have Nazis in your game
because the street layout isn't exactly how it is in the real world.
Why is the guy who cares about history fat, too?
Who's fat?
Well, he's sort of demonizing quite the hairline, too.
He's he's a oddly lima bean.
And the other dude with the purple hair.
Yeah, is that even a dude?
I don't know.
Actually, that might have been offensive, what I just said.
Sorry, got D on his shirt for dude.
No, I think I think D means definitely correct,
while the other one means definitely horrible.
I don't know.
I don't know. It might actually be developer.
Yeah, I don't know.
Maybe it stands for D bag.
Also, look at the absolute state of my left hand on holding the bag.
Jeez.
It's like it got crushed by some piece of burning graphite.
Or hate.
I don't know.
That's kind of sounds like what you're saying about World War Two or.
You can still make games about World War Two.
They just have to be terrible.
They have to be sanitized or overly propagandized.
Yeah, you can have games about World War Two multiplayer.
They just have to be terrible.
I like the idea as well.
The responsibility of the developer, the developer, the developer is like,
OK, bye.
You know, in this in my game, this guy isn't actually like fully on board
with the Nazi idea.
I was just like, OK, OK.
So show us his introduction.
And it's just like your standard sort of story where it's a slow reveal
about this character and like, no, right at the beginning,
you need to make it extremely clear exactly what this guy thinks
and how he's a good person.
That sounds like good storytelling to me.
Like at the beginning of Assassin's Creed 3, you play as the character
who jumps around in the walls and stabs people and assassinates
and gets on the boat and everything.
And then you learn that he's not an assassin.
He's with the Templar the whole time.
I thought he was like a nifty little reveal, right?
Yeah, to show the ambiguity of some of these things can't have that.
No, I was going to say that's too vague, kind of.
And even then we don't even reach that point because he's talking about
the weirdest target possible in multiplayer first person shooters.
It's the thing that expand this out where I go to get my lessons
on history and morality is multiplayer games.
Yeah.
It's not like there's other kinds of experience out there that
could provide for what you're looking for.
No, you go to a completely different kind of experience with the
same aesthetic dressing multiplayer video games.
That's where I get my morals from.
But even saying we shouldn't make games where you play as a Nazi
or a terrorist, but what we are saying is that the fact that you're
playing as a Nazi or a terrorist in a game has to mean something.
You still have to establish why?
Yeah, and mean something.
What do you mean?
It means that it's time on the team is balanced with the other team.
It means the game's fair and I can enjoy it.
You realize this is why we have single player games, right?
And in this video open with saying you're playing the game
and suddenly you become a Nazi.
God, yeah, you're a Nazi now.
You didn't choose this even though you so is it okay to be a Nazi
as long as the game tells you that they're bad?
Apparently, yeah, like instead of showing the countdown timer
for the Nazi team, it just says remember you're a Nazi and the
Nazis were bad men.
What is with the video game represented by the cube in the
background?
Look the one eyebrow up.
That's the game.
It's like saying it's what does that mean?
The game is the game like huh?
I don't know why she's so bothered.
Is that what it's trying to say like the game's trying to hide
from the player that it made them a Nazi or something.
I don't know very strange drawings like a cute little high.
That's the game back there.
That's that's the personified game that made you a Nazi.
It's still behind your penis couch.
The game forced on you after you purchased the game turn.
Yeah, it forced you to go to the store and buy the game and
bring it home and open the box and put the disc into your Xbox
and then start playing the game and select multiplayer and
then to keep playing it forced you.
You had no idea this could happen.
Why not?
Is that the fact that you're playing as a Nazi or a terrorist
in a game has to mean something and it can't just be a skin.
It you fucking channel can do better.
Oh, right.
Yeah, there is.
I remember a lot of people talking about how we can do
better being like the one of those condescending and inaccurate
fucking like just statements about this whole scenario.
It's just like disgusting.
Games fucked up, but they can do better games are shit,
but they can do better and we're going to tell them how to
do better by telling you how to make the worst World War 2
game you could ever make.
Who else is evil?
Tell us so we can censor them.
They're like, it's okay children.
Yeah, we will tell you who are the evilman's.
It's not even that.
Yeah, it is.
Less people will buy your games and that will cost you.
All right.
Yeah, it'll recuperate your expenses because people won't
buy your shitty World War 2 game.
It's just it's chopping up a bit on my end.
But basically the video says it's not going to cost.
Does he say it'll cost less?
Would it cost equal?
It says it's not going to cost you anything.
I'm going to cost you anything to do all these changes that
he's suggesting visible.
You'll destroy your own fan base slash player base implementing
like tool tips or descriptions or a morality system of some
kind. It's like, yeah, this will cost money.
I don't even the split second.
It gets out that your game has increased queue times for one
of its factions, but selectable factions.
Nobody will purchase your video game.
I mean, that'll turn me I'm if you go up to people and say
oh, by the way, let's say a reviewer comes out with a game
like this multiplayer game in World War 2.
If you want to play as the Germans, you're going to have to
wait upwards of four minutes to get into a game.
That's a no buy for me.
I'm not buying that.
No, thanks.
I'll play something else where I can get into a game, you
know, pretty much instantly.
Cognizant of the world around this.
Yeah, it's really lag on my end.
I'm actually getting a new video right now.
I'm at I'm at 531.
I got nothing.
I'm just spooling.
I'm assuming it's a work for you three.
Yeah, probably two seconds ahead of me.
I'm at 31.
I'm stuck all the way back in 521.
Here, let me check this out.
Watch together together to try that out.
So close to the end as well because a lot of people been
mentioning is like, yes, we I know about the the comment
they've made in relation to, you know, responding to
criticism who will get there.
No, why is it together?
It won't.
But about the world.
My circle TV.
So let me that
tell your ISP to stop being a massive.
I'm not even sure if it's like that.
It's some weird combination now.
9% Wow.
Is the efap crew get in there getting the dislikes in there,
I guess.
I don't really know how people could resist if it's if it's
possible.
I was about to say like I can I'm going to play the last 30
seconds locally.
So that oh, I guess we could test this try see how that
works.
You can do that.
No, Sophistic Autistic.
I am not friends with Eric taxon.
Sophistic Autistic friends are racist.
Yeah, okay.
Well, anyway, whether or not we figure this one out, like I
said, I'm just going to play the last 30 seconds of the
videos for the stream.
So check and hear it out.
We'll go from there.
These symbols were drawing on me that we think as we're
building.
Now the actual YouTube video is lagging.
Okay, it must be on my end.
Damn.
This is what you get for living in that shitty Britain country
think as we're building not just about the game.
We're actually what he gets for living in that shitty Wales
country quails.
It's risky.
I kind of want to go and restart my internet to try and
get it clear and cleaner, but there's a chance it'll split
the stream into two if I don't do it faster.
I can hear you just fine.
That's the weird thing.
You guys I'm hearing you guys fine.
You're hearing me fine, but YouTube videos of fucking
tisming right now, but about having considered Singapore
if we can do I don't think that's going to solve it solves
everything else.
Do that we can take a big step forward for the industry.
We can.
I mean you guys heard the ending.
What does he say?
Normalizing Nazis because games can be better and stuff.
All that requires is that we in the game industry be cognizant
of the world around us and what these symbols were drawing
on we think as we're building not just about the game.
We're working on but about the world as a whole if we can
do that.
We can take a big step forward for the industry.
We can stop helping to normalize Nazis.
Okay, that didn't go well for them.
Yeah, they're 9%.
They broke that.
They broke the double-ditch hit boundary.
They are now at 9%.
I wonder what the lowest rated video that has a significant
amount of votes on it, you know, like beyond 10,000.
Let's say yeah.
Ugh.
YouTube Rewind.
Yeah, that's perfect.
I'm going to only one worse than this is the one that YouTube
made. I'm going to try and restart my internet quickly.
If it does separate into two streams, all that means is that
I'm just gonna have to fucking stitch them together in post
when they go up on moolah, which will be fine.
I've done it before.
If not, it'll just be great and nice and thingy, but I shouldn't
be longer than 10 seconds.
Hopefully it worst.
It'll be with you right back.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
So well, YouTube Rewind is at 17% and they have like 175
million views.
So that's a pretty Titanic failure.
Bop-dah-bop-dah-dah-dah-dah-dah-dah.
We are talking.
Allow us to entertain you with our voices.
We'll serenade you with our something or other.
Not mine, though.
No, not yours.
You haven't gotten to that level just yet.
I have a lovely voice.
What pizza am I going to order?
I'm not ordering anything.
I'm like, I'm jelly.
It has been done.
Yeah, now the test is for future videos are working for me.
I guess we'll find out.
The next thing I was going to throw on was just a past video
where they make a statement or two that are interesting.
Let's see if I can get that working.
New Watch Together link.
Once again, everyone pile in.
Funny pandas.
Epic laughs.
Well, you know, the panda videos have never let us stray.
This is called how to stand up for games as a medium.
Yes, and this is back in February of 2012 when times were different.
Good.
Yeah, he said us back even further.
These games are not being judged because of their content.
They're judged because they are games.
Countless filmmakers, novelists and artists.
The video we're watching is his extra credits.
Yeah.
Oh, Jesus.
That's this is them back in 2012.
This is the voice that everyone knows is extra credit has changed since
then.
I don't like the voice, but a lot of people do is to think it's I
think this is a terrible voice because it's annoying and nasally
and whiny and it sounds like they recorded themselves and they
just sped it up.
Sounds like V without the accent.
Kinda.
Yeah, but either way, try and listen to what they're saying instead
of how they say it.
They're judged because they are games.
Countless filmmakers, novelists and artists have tackled difficult
subjects before and been celebrated for topics like war, genocide,
sexuality, hatred.
Many of these pieces are critically acclaimed and rightfully.
So they dare to explore humanity's dark side.
The ugly realities of the human condition.
They venture into uncomfortable territory and find the truth hidden
within.
Oh,
did not age well.
But the thing is a lot of people have been saying these are two
different content creators at this point.
So you can't even compare.
It's just that I don't know.
It's sad reality.
Same name.
Same, you know, I mean you look at you just go to new replies and
it's like, oh, yeah, do you reply to this video specifically?
Yeah, it's common.
I presume this applies to everything except World War II games
because all Germans are Nazis.
It is like that he says you go through all the darkest parts of it
to find the truth.
It's like not anymore.
This is the stuff art is made of.
What is it about games that disqualifies them from exploring this
harsh territory?
Because they're desensitizing us to the Nazism to normalizes it.
Stupid extra credits.
I've heard it argued that we need a rebranding that we need to
take on a new title for this medium.
Kind of like how comic books had to take on the name graphic novel
before they started getting the respect they deserved and
maybe we do interactive experiences.
No simulations.
No, that doesn't sound right either.
Well while we're at it.
We also need to expand the scope of what we do to include more
of the human experience and address a broader set of ideas.
But before any of that is going to happen.
No, don't explore ideas.
Jesus.
Don't explore ideas be instantly revolved by symbology.
Do not explore them because you might come away with the wrong
opinion.
Yeah, that's interesting.
And then it's just a few of the statements that are of interest
once again.
This is a newer.
Oh, yeah, this one.
A lot of people on this one are like, uh, yeah, this is called
propaganda games, ethical game design kind of seems like a
propaganda video we watched, didn't it?
Didn't it?
But I rarely heard that particular kind of slur flying around.
And now I hear them regularly and maybe that's just my experience.
I don't have any official statistics to give on that.
But speaking for myself, I've heard enough of it to start feeling
concerned.
Look, my point is there's danger in mechanically incentivizing
actions in a game without thinking about what those actions
mean by making the goal of these games to kill people of other
races.
You're training people by fooling them into thinking they're
choosing.
It's their choice to pull the trigger.
They earned that headshot.
They made that kill and because of those compelling moment to
moment choices, you successfully divert them away from thinking
about the larger questions.
Why am I killing these people?
Are they really my enemies?
Yes, they are because they're evil Nazis.
Yeah, they have they have iron crosses, which means you have to
shoot them.
It was like the aging of this is hilarious.
I'm telling you, social justice rots your brain.
It makes you backtrack on every principle stance that you once
had.
I just love the are they really my enemies?
Also, they are like the jet killing your own race is fine though.
Don't worry about that.
Go for it.
Now, don't misunderstand me.
I'm not saying that games can desensitize us to violence or
turn us into killers.
Those are areas where we have some pretty strong mental
barriers built.
No, we don't know.
Oh my god, exactly.
We cannot be trusted.
Rest in peace.
Rest in peace extracurricular, but they can certainly have as
much effect as any other piece of culture, be it the news media
or Hollywood.
Oh, really this heavy focus on specifically FPS games is kind
of arbitrary because it's like everything.
Like oh my god, it's so embarrassing because they're making
the counter arguments for themselves.
Like we don't even have to do it at that point.
So next up, which is this is so sad, but it's it's what happened.
So they have a I guess community manager on Twitter.
And she he I don't fucking care person.
They they pronouns are in their Twitter bio, by the way, so
I'm giving it to you guys and I'll throw it up on the screen.
You got someone's screenshot.
Obviously the video going to the pits of hell in terms of
the ratio and so that didn't work out now did it and
brags when you read out her response.
They response whatever there.
So Zolair the Burl at the Burls community manager for extra
credits.
I believe I believe I don't think enough people seem to understand
that one.
We fully expect this to happen every time we have uploaded
a games or political video and that too.
We love losing all the bigoted subscribers.
Are you kidding me less bigotry is great dislikes are still
engagement.
Um, people say dislikes are still engagement.
They're totally not mad.
Hmm.
So if you if you didn't like the video, you're big it.
Yeah, that's there's no counter argument that doesn't make
you proud to be a bigot.
And if you were like, it was just a one time thing.
He's like a joke and then you follow up with the the second
tweet their eggs.
All right, we've got a follow-up here that I will see in any
moment and it will pop up instantly in just one second.
I will be able to see it.
It was an album what I gave you.
Let's see.
Oh, we try our best just to lose all the bigoted subscribers
who somehow didn't drop off at any number of the earlier
games or political episodes.
Yeah, I mean, it's it's absolutely the biggest faults
for not realizing faster.
I guess because you know, their takes have always been this
insane apparently.
So this person's bio is they them communications director
at extra credits, community management, social justice,
LDS, contemporary art, video games, memes, weed fandom.
Oh, no.
And then finally in this cavalcade of nonsense is their
response to the hate.
So here it is.
I'm guessing we have to break this down piece by piece.
It's actually pretty long.
Okay.
Yeah, so the extra credit extra credits edited their pinned
comment after things started going south for the video,
which is admittedly fairly soon.
I edit.
Hey folks.
This one seems to have struck a nerve already off to a
great start.
We encourage discussion about the topic.
I don't then there are some fair criticism of the video
out there.
However, I wanted to address some of the comments that
seem to have misunderstood some aspects of the video one.
We never said that playing as a Nazi turns you into a Nazi.
Oh, do that you that's not how it works.
That's not how any of this works.
However, there is plenty of research about how art and
media can shift people's perspectives.
This is not a good or bad thing.
This is just a natural effect of culture.
Please look the look up the Overton window or heck you
can watch our video on propaganda games over here.
I don't think I want to watch anything about propaganda
from this channel.
So they've converted the they say in the video you play
in the game and you're a Nazi that they're talking about
how you'll see the crosses and shit and then you'll become
you know desensitized to horrible hate ideas on hate
.com and now they're saying no, we were just trying to
say art and media can shift your perspective.
That's the most thing that's the most noncommittal statement
ever you're like your mind can change due to the things
you detect with your senses like yes, it's a backpedal to
like the most obvious position ever that doesn't even
disagree with that.
Yes, of course and if anything they're telling people to look
up the Overton window and if you do that that makes their
position even worse because it shows how little the right
has moved and how insanely left the left has moved recently
like happy watch the Democratic debates here fucking hell.
Who are these people?
It's like every far leftist wants to be the president now.
I mean, they're pretty funny.
I like the double.
Oh, yeah, they're insane.
These people are fucking nuts.
So no playing a Nazi doesn't magically transform you into
a Nazi.
No one's saying that.
No, it's just not magic.
Yeah, it's just not magic too.
We never said the game should never let you play as Nazis
or terrorists for that matter.
If you need the exact time stamp, it's at 447.
There's a lot of potential for some really interesting or
impactful games that put the players in the boots of people
or in control of systems that have been that have done incredible
harm, but it can't be done thoughtlessly or just as a skin
on top of mechanics devoid of context.
So yeah, that would ruin multiplayer for two games.
What you're advocating for would ruin multiplayer.
And when you when you're a neutral level of a morality
where you've not contextualized either side in any way shape
or form the second that you do anything to any one of them,
it's like right.
So where do we stop?
Because now we need to make sure we do it for all sides
in all ways.
And it seems to me that they're only advocating for Nazi man
bad.
Nazi man bad.
And it's like, okay, it seems a little bit one-sided and almost
a little bit creepy in terms of like, is that necessarily true?
I'd like to refer them to this video.
I just watched by extra credits.
I don't know if they've heard of that channel.
They said like, why am I killing these people?
Are they all evil?
I guess they are.
The game said so.
They're wearing Nazi iconography.
They must be.
Oh, you mean the cross?
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I've seen that cross in a lot of places.
Yeah, that that Nazi cross, the Iron Cross.
The Nazi sticks.
All right.
So for the guns.
Yep, three for those saying that it's just a game and we
shouldn't think too hard about it.
I feel like perhaps it might be important to introduce ourselves.
Hi, we're extra credits.
Our tagline for a very long time was because games matter.
It's something we fundamentally believe and if you don't that's
okay, but then our content might not be for you because thinking
hard about games is kind of our shtick.
You didn't think about any so fucking backhanded.
Yeah, it's very condescending.
So it matches the total video.
Tell me extra credits.
What are the politics of pong?
I go ironically, I'm asking that now.
I'm trying to imply that like just because it's a game thus
there has to be something incredibly important about it in
a meta narrative.
It was like not necessarily.
That would have to be something that's made aware to the player
anyway, and I find it disturbing to like inject all of your
sort of morality into a game that's trying to remain neutral.
Because it's a video game.
It's a game.
More importantly, like again, a game that doesn't have a
present is not even neutral.
It doesn't have a presence on the morality scale.
It's a multiplayer game.
It's a shooter.
Yeah, it's completely amoral.
There's nothing more of about it.
Pong is neo-colon.
Okay.
Pong is neo-colon.
Four, our writing staff is the same and we've always talked about
politics and games in our other videos.
If this comes as a surprise to you or you think there's been a
large shift in our thinking, I'd invite you to take a look at
some of our older episodes.
You sure?
We live in a time where neo-Nazis exist and they seem to have
increasingly found a home in gaming community.
Okay.
I maybe I'll find one.
Why would gaming communities be the home of like, you know,
I mean, like what's the connection there?
It's like, oh, well, it's called duty.
They don't tell you that the Nazis are evil.
You're like, oh, time where neo-Nazis exist.
Yeah, because it's after 1945.
There will be some people out there who are still unironically
Nazis.
Sure.
They've always been around.
There's like 12 of them.
Can I get a source on this?
I just the idea that they're like we have no safe space, but
that gaming happens and you're like, what?
Why?
Let's see.
This isn't something we can turn a blind eye anymore.
And it's something to consider what we as game designers can
do to try and make things better.
As said, there have been some very valid critiques of the
video that we greatly appreciate.
Most important to us is in is to start talking about these
topics and to have conversations about design.
For those of you who have kept civil in the comments, thank
you.
For those of you who need a reminder, our COC can be found
here.
Okay.
So yeah, that's dumb.
Matches the video though.
Shit.
And that is the saga of extra credits going through something
of a midlife crisis almost.
Justice rots the brain kids.
It's kind of but you know, we can have some fun.
There are two videos that relate to this one made by our
very own meme repository.
So there you are just civilly disagreeing with the latest
extra credits video when suddenly bam, you're a Nazi.
You didn't ask for this.
You don't actually believe this, but there it is and you
were treated no differently than the people who literally
rounded people up into death camps.
What the fuck?
There's not anyone on the internet who can't have fun
with this retarded fucking extra credits video.
There you are watching your three-hour TFA critique and
all of the sudden you're a Nazi.
You didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this yet.
There it is.
There you are watching a passionate rant and all of the
sudden you're a racist.
You didn't choose this yet.
There it is.
I'm not a racist, but this is suspicious about a play.
You are watching a video.
Oh no.
It's like lagging for me again.
Please don't do this to watch my memes.
There you are watching a video about sexism in games and all
of the sudden you're a furry.
You didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this.
There it is.
Of the gamer Tron.
You're embarrassing me in front of the spider.
I don't know what's going on with my internet.
It's terrible.
I don't even play meme videos.
No terrible country.
Of course, I mean, I don't know if we can blame Britannia,
but blame Nazis against their fault.
So, you know, it'll be good for me is to go into meme images
next because that someone actually can handle with my internet
right now for sure and it will take us at least a good 20
minutes or so, but if it's still going after that, I guess
I'll just do the reset again because I seem to fix it for a
bit.
But yeah, that was that was the saga of extra credit.
It's pretty embarrassing.
I'm guessing they'll recover because I mean, they're a pretty
big channel and they can just not do that again.
But the like I said, there's a lot of the fact that they said
you can go look at our older videos when their older videos
essentially spit on this new one is interesting to me and
they said that the writing team is the same.
Is that true?
Yeah, social justice.
Just yeah, just awkward honestly, and you know, we wish
them the best of luck, but that video was actually one of
the worst on YouTube, like we cover only the best here at
eFAB those developed principal positions.
They used to have that everyone liked and agreed with and
could, you know, see eye to eye on.
Yeah, fuck that shit.
Remember when when we said that do isn't supposed to be a
relatable guy.
Do you guys black?
This is a this is only a meme for people who watched the
previous episodes.
I mean, I guess all of these are this one's a wonderful comic.
Super chat my friends.
You are demicrotic.
You must choose candy brand and be
Uter chods, utter chodes.
Will you become a sexual rabbit poop or sweat ebony on the
inside shells of WW heaven?
And they voted the M&Ms.
That's right.
They did.
That was Kam straight.
They did.
All right.
There's a lot of sausage do shit to get through.
Doom sausage.
Yeah, for people in chat, we're just like unaware of these
things.
Let's go with it.
All right.
Yeah.
So this is like a three-page thing.
So you go on for girls.
This is the first comic got the space count reading the
newspaper.
Oh, God.
Someone gives it gives it all tug.
Oh, it's a salt.
Look who it is.
That's good.
That's very good.
Beautiful.
I like that.
Very good.
I like this one a lot.
Wolf will like this.
She made it.
What's the newspaper?
Oh, no.
I thought black lines are there on the newspaper.
This one's a whole set of drawings.
This guy did of basically like enemies of efap types.
This is the Baron of faith.
The Baron of faith is Christ.
It's like a weird Rhino with a ton of hits.
Clearly taking inspiration from Bay.
When I see this is the Australian dragon snake.
Actually.
Terrifying.
Terrifying.
Yeah, really dangerous as well.
Shadow has fought several.
This is Riley Dennis.
No bullshit mutant.
The two of them.
Oh my goodness.
Good Lord.
It's actually terrifying.
Oh, they look like the the water hags from the witch.
Yeah, they do kind of.
Yeah.
And we've got the evolved critic.
Where is your formal education?
He's got theme knives.
Yeah, it's kind of shit.
You can't make up.
And then you've got Major Lee's women.
I guess what is the weapon there?
It's like a it's the die that he was trying to defend made
sense.
The loot gave to layer.
I guess a die gamma with a die and what's the bladed?
Huh complicated me.
This one is the TLJ defender.
Oh fuck.
It's license dies.
I see.
Got a soy injection.
The two of them.
NPC face got a check mark and the reader response theory.
What is the the language coming out of the book there?
I'm not even sure.
Wonderful depictions though.
You don't see realistic drawings like this every day.
The canto bite alien.
Rags like this one.
Yeah.
I have a shield proof sword.
I have a sword proof shield.
Wilkes.
I like that the world is flat.
Yeah.
Original subjectivity Slayer.
One in Wales 1056 AD given the mask by the dawn after proving
to be a skilled warrior during a pay for invasion single-handedly
beat Goliath in a fistfight and trapped him in the Philippines
would go on to pass down the mask as a family alien for generations.
So the subjectivity Slayer would always exist.
Seems fair.
Oh my that's something makes sense to me.
Interesting depiction of the ball of mask.
And I can't remember if this is the same dude or not.
This is the thing is really hard to keep track of exactly who
and where all these come from.
It's like trying to keep control over like this.
Oh Jesus Christ.
That's an original droid isn't it right?
That's not something else.
I'm pretty sure.
If it's not worth it.
Yeah, I was gonna say impressive.
If so, I don't know if it's taken for somewhere else though.
I never know for sure.
But this one again different styles.
Oh God.
I don't know what it is Theo.
Can you translate that?
That's a Jojo reference.
How am I supposed to our adventure motherfucker?
Is that a Jojo reference?
Yeah, that's a Jojo reference.
This one's terrifying.
Not terrifying once before though.
Here's a YouTube video.
Oh my God.
This is Pave episode 42 and apparently it's 24 minutes long.
They don't do long episodes.
I guess.
There's a lot happening here.
Play the least.
Unless this is live.
Maybe a live show when we got to 401.
Awkwardly.
Yeah, there's a lot of stuff going on here.
Rags for life on the tattoo.
Dark Souls 2 tattoo.
I don't even know where to begin looking at all this.
It's like.
Meme the rags question and and we did and did we kidnapped Jay?
Maybe.
No, definitely not.
A little weird drawings this time around.
Definitely.
Oh my God.
Tonal.
Oh no.
It's about to actually terrifying.
It is actually scary.
This came in relatively recently.
Oh my God.
Heavy breathing.
The fucking oh the face looks tortured like he's like suffering.
He's gone through a lot.
He's suffering in ways.
He can't comprehend.
I don't know if you saw this one last time.
Well, whether or not you did still see it now.
Oh Jesus.
No, I have not seen this one.
Well, I told you that you should eat a salad or stop it.
Get help.
It's not me.
It's Baywood's fault.
I think this was just an excuse to draw a wolf with this fat wolf.
Oh, we should eat a salad though.
It's definitely gonna have to collect more than one eat more.
Salad pizza.
No, I have I'll have you know, I have not eaten pizza that pizza
at all this week.
Why do we keep this right around for the milk when he no longer
provides?
We will harvest the I've never seen insert movie here.
It's Jay.
I've never seen Jay is a writer with this concert.
Why are you holding the severed head of ER?
And I've got PS a switch in the other hand too.
Oh, I think they're I think it's the end of the chairs.
Oh, it could be arms of the chair.
Yeah.
Wolf, you're a badge in this.
I'm fine with that.
Spy gold is just like riveting atop the chair spider says they
plot against you.
They plan to break the barriers of blockage and steal the milk
of the Rhino.
Be where the loke who pretends to know tones must deal with
them now.
Plus they're weak.
Oh, and Spider-Man is coming up.
Good that they warned about that.
Nico rags in his Rhino milk.
It's a very sweet picture.
You know, these things are very sweet.
Is that a wheel at the chair?
Is that a wheelchair?
I think the chair is mobilized to this wheels and the world.
I think Jay made a mistake by not I like that.
I go from like a horribly obese gluttonous monster to a
werewolf.
I don't like the rags manages no matter what the scenarios
are.
He always just seems to be so, you know, a little Loof no
matter what's going on.
He's got it just a regular old Shibe.
This is where I am.
Let me say who do we have a name for who did this?
So I again trying to collect them all quickly on Twitter.
I always like in person who made this.
I guess you don't you guys don't have a Twitter.
There's a little artist tag right down there.
I don't know if that's the name line.
Why 119 we kind of like, you know, they're all some images.
They're all archived in obviously the the discord is
just that.
Yeah, I just saved this one here.
I really like this one.
And we've got this is the first one.
Pretty neat.
Is that like a 3d?
I believe so.
Yes.
And I guess.
Wolf's not a werewolf in this costume.
Like the hounds helmet.
Well, it looks like I'm still artistically screeching.
Oh, I'm on Geralt.
Oh, no, I it's a wolf head on Geralt.
Yeah.
Nice.
The second so I just remembered the sword because that's
the one I use on my character.
I think it's just Geralt wearing a wolf helmet.
You can kind of see his face in there.
Well, disguised by the lighting though.
Indeed.
And that is it for images.
There's a lot of videos we're going to test out one.
And if I got to some internet stuff, I have to reset it.
And if I can't solve this problem, I'm going to be very
upset with life in general.
Everyone's in the wash together.
What makes me a good demo man?
If I were a bad demo man.
Do the team for just two videos have copyright on them for
the the meet the ones?
I have no idea.
I don't know either.
There's so many of them.
No clue.
It's just about thing like people have re-uploading them.
They probably would knock them down.
I don't know.
I wouldn't be sitting here discussing it with you now.
Would I?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There are ads.
They get pre-posted so much.
Okay, chat seems to think they'd be fine.
Well, I guess rags is dead.
There's actually a part two to this that continues the
story.
Let's say rags will survive.
Maybe.
So you're a black.
See you back here.
I can't look at Quentin without seeing that hideous
mustache.
Yeah, FYI it's all crazy.
You need to be using the other Quentin image more now.
That's how we see him.
Okay, one to the continuity.
Just show like the ugliest version of him.
You can.
Oh, they're going to have to glue you back together in
hell.
I'm not the woman.
Hey, who's Wolf?
I don't remember who the characters are where they stand.
That's spy.
They made Jay spy.
What does that imply?
He's a sneaky piece of shit.
We shouldn't trust Jay.
It's confirmed.
Right.
You should be the heavy because it's the most Rhino like
that's racist.
John saves everyone.
This is essentially a good thought too.
Arguably.
Arguably.
Help me.
I have no idea.
Yeah.
I guess Mel had something against the Captain Marvel fans.
Yeah, it's at all stepped right on her face.
That's a sexism.
After this, Don went to win went on to win the war against
Tabats.
We now pray for his safeness as we take care of the orphans.
He used to care about after before losing his bike.
Don lives matter.
Made during he felt 41.
All right, very good.
Um, so this one is pretty funny because at first I think I
just told one of you guys about this one.
I was like by the title is called.
He said the word and he said the word to do with shad.
I was like way for me to realize the stories.
I wanted to create.
I love this one writing and that was in 2007.
And so I decided I want to be I'm gonna have to pause this
because of obviously like yeah, the problem is I wasn't
any good at it.
So I needed to learn how to do it from that point took nine
years to learn how to do it right.
I wrote the equivalent of about nine novels and most of them
weren't any good except this last one was actually wasn't
bad.
There was something there.
But I feel bad about it.
So I know that if I don't do this, you're not going to see
this is for another few days of copyright claims.
So I got a plus work with but still it wasn't the one to
release.
I had to realize it's going to get to a point as long the
process trying to get better when I looked on that they
weren't good enough.
Thing is getting the ability to be able to judge objectively
if you have as good enough is very difficult thing for me
over the years, but I had been able to do it.
That's why I have seven or so completed novels that aren't
published because I'm able to look back on the same
project.
Everyone's just holding his book.
It's so worth it.
The acro they gave everybody said objectively as well.
I think all of us are going to love this one.
This was I believe this was available like right at the
end of the last year.
Fabulous to make it into the rotation.
Fuck Game of Thrones.
She defend.
Why are you beating up Ryan Johnson?
Why would because I went out of because during the stream
that I made this rant on.
I don't remember if it was South Park.
The other guy was streaming with one of them said that Ryan
started mocking Game of Thrones fans over episode three.
And so I went on a rant about how much I hated Ryan Johnson
and I guess that's where this comes from.
I see.
He just picked it up being the actual seated.
Moment.
He's just running off to find something.
The birth of tonal.
Oh boy.
Very important law right there.
The cosmic chicken.
This is great.
It's actually perfectly slotted into.
Yeah, that looks really good.
Oh God.
Probably have to pause on this.
I'll be careful.
Deepest means cosmic chicken.
As long as everyone's following.
So I wonder if you can tell what's coming.
Oh, is the music public domain?
I didn't know that.
Also Sprocks are a through strip.
This is from the movie.
So the footage make it copyright.
Yeah, it's still gonna be careful.
Imagine this was your first episode of eFAB.
Like what the fuck are they watching you?
Imagine if total just unironically saw this video.
Like someone just sent this to him and he was like, yes.
The totaled arc starts at episode one.
You have to watch all of it to get the total dark.
What are we on now?
42.
Yeah, like you should not understand this but a lot of people in this chat do.
I'm so.
Someone in the chat said this is unironically my first episode of eFAB.
Well, welcome friend.
Apologize.
Just another nine days to understand all.
Yeah, there you go.
This explains it for people who are confused.
Praise be tonal.
Look and his disciple the dawn.
So saith the cosmic chicken.
Hopefully that clears it up very simple.
Do you think the dawn is Jesus in this timeline?
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know if he'd sell the dawn short like that.
So this one me and rags will get select people in the audience will get.
I'm not sure about Theo Wolf will not know.
Well, this is probably you'll probably find it funny.
Anyway.
All right.
Oh, I've seen this.
Amazing ending to a film ever.
I like the text box.
I've actually seen this whole movie.
It's fucking amazing.
Age 35 left everything he owed to his town's local orphanage.
Harold Danvers is now surfing.
Recruit more pimps.
That's such a great one.
I love it.
This is called blood debts.
Everybody.
It's this is unironically how the movie ends there.
There was a there was a red letter media best of the worst on it.
If you want to catch that.
Yeah, go watch that and I'll make that even funnier to be honest.
Oh man.
This one's called.
All right.
What was it called?
Jack Saint is having a rage.
That's what this is.
I'm more Jojo.
He said I guess we have to read this out because people listening but.
You said this is Jojo.
Did you?
Yes, more Jojo.
I'm a fucking Jojo reference.
Actually, I just realized this so much visual shit that we just went through in those images.
So obviously if you're not looking at the visuals, you would have gotten all of anyway.
So just enjoy the meme.
I can imagine him in his closet at home.
Just being upset all day.
And lagging on my hands.
God damn it.
We're like halfway through.
Nearly made it.
Hey, I want to I want to quickly do a reset.
Hopefully it fixes it and then try and get through the rest of them before whatever's going on doesn't happen worse.
That totally makes sense.
Okay.
How are you?
Well, I'll be here if you need me with my string keys and my beer.
I see this saying rip stream.
Hopefully it's already back.
Stream massive.
So many F's in stream.
Oh my.
Let me refresh.
This is the end of the fab.
Potentially.
Oh God.
Stream is not coming back.
Damn.
It's back.
Damn.
They said we back.
We back in business.
It came back, but then it died again.
It's resetting F.
We got more F's.
We live back.
It's back for me.
No, we live.
I was going to live again.
It's not living for me.
It is risen.
Looks like it's dead.
A mixed message.
Yeah, still dead for me.
You're dead.
I mean, you guys can hear me, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Still still livestream offline.
Wish I can do about that.
It's still streaming.
You know what I mean?
Like.
What happened if you just lived in America?
True.
Don't invite me over three.
Yes.
Come over to my place.
I do that.
I'm assuming at this point since it's been down for this long,
it's going to be a it's going to split itself into two.
Yay.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
Oh, people in the chat were saying that there's two links to my
channel in the description.
Oh, people in the chat were saying that there's two links to my
channel in the description.
But there's not though.
I've checked them.
Yours is rags ends with two gw yours ends with n qw.
I don't know if they just saw them as the same.
And I checked them unless it just didn't update ever.
That could be it.
Maybe.
Just heard rags belch.
So we're live.
Did you belch recently other people?
I don't know people are saying offline.
I think we're back.
I can see it.
Yeah, my God.
We're back.
We're back.
Back and better than back in the efap groove.
We're back back.
Don't don't don't don't don't don't don't don't don't don't don't
I don't know what you're talking about when you say that.
Still not reassuring.
Cheese is almost done in my beer is open.
Echo back.
I seemingly still have like no control of a wash together.
That was the part that was the payoff.
Jack be like freaking out at the idea of an objective opinion.
I think it makes sense.
Supposed to be think your opinion is better than others.
It's highly accurate even if it is laggy.
All right, so these ones.
I'm gonna pay assuming it's fucking gonna work.
Hoping at this point.
They come in a pair.
Yes, like the fruit.
I came in a pair once spider-man coming is a good movie.
This is what we're dealing with guys.
I say it's a good movie.
Everyone laughs.
You serious?
He's okay.
Apparently you've completely oversimplified the MJ argument.
I don't remember doing that, but okay.
Zendaya's character is a completely different person from other adaptations
to the point where I question why she's called MJ.
Don't care.
Don't care about other adaptation.
I don't care about other adaptations.
I don't care about the comics.
I don't care about the other movies.
I like that all the people who make this adaptation argument if they are
confronted with the same thing in regards to the shining they'll all
shut the fuck up because no one's going to shit on the shining.
There'll be one guy in chat saying I think the shining shit will be that
guy on that guy.
It's like me.
About a guy named Bob is an American Patriot.
But then by the end of the story getting him to say that my friends
call me Joseph Stalin.
That's a terrible analysis.
I was wondering where you were going with that.
I don't think that's how it works.
And I agree that makes absolutely no sense.
So the reason why that's different is we would be like why the hell
would his parents have named him Joseph Stalin if he's an American?
That's a really fucked up thing to do while with MJ.
There's no reference to anything but meta information.
Not the same whatsoever.
You're calling on upon a different continuity to say it's bad.
That's not even fair.
You're referring to out-of-universe stuff out-of-universe information
is completely different than in universe stuff.
And she's not Mary Jane.
She's Michelle.
So you can't even argue that argument that doesn't work.
And it's almost as if the writers don't know what they want this
character to be.
I mean, she seems pretty consistent.
Zach argument TLJ defenders made about Luke.
No.
How?
How?
How?
TLJ isn't a remake or a reboot.
It's a sequel.
It's a sequel.
That's completely false.
Yeah, not the same thing guys.
Come on people.
We expect better from you.
Anyway, it's almost as if the writers don't know what they want
this character to be as there were leaks before the movie that
she was going to be Volture's daughter.
I don't okay.
I didn't see the leaks.
I don't know if this character isn't an objective flaw with the
film then why name her with the name associated with a completely
different person?
How do those things follow from the full?
Yeah, how does that follow?
Yeah, how?
How's it a flaw if it's named after someone is not kind of maybe?
She has the name of someone else in a different.
Oh, you do have two links to my channel.
No, she has the initial.
There's just a second link under the first link of somebody
else.
Oh, okay.
But rags is still rags is link is still there though.
Hell, yeah, I know but there's just two links for mine.
Well, that just proves how much I love you.
Oh, okay.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, interesting argument.
Try again.
Is that even an argument?
Stop with the adaptation argument and then I guess there
was there was a meme made in reverse to to supply least if
you're going to make the adaptation arguments be consistent
about it.
Brian Styles.
So this is the average argument for why homecoming is a bad
movie.
It looks like an RPG.
But it's not.
Yeah, I mean I could I could understand that.
Um, then E-man gameplay wanted to make us a rendition of the
not so great debate in the form of Civil War very quickly.
Oh boy.
I got her the same.
I'm saying she gave it just before me.
Oh, I'm saying that it's a
fanatical portion.
Fanatical portion.
It is.
Strong man.
I re-watched that debate the other day that I was just laughing
my ass off the whole time.
Hold on.
If he's Iron Man, does that mean he won the debate?
All right.
Oh, the problem was that it's an adaptation.
It's that it's pandering.
To who?
Pandering.
It's pandering.
People really don't like this because of just MJ is what I'm
soaking up the most commonly referenced issue with the film.
Shad said it was his number one issue with the film.
People really like Mary Jane being the the red-headed.
This isn't Mary Jane.
She's barely there.
She like seriously the PE teacher has more lines than she does.
But see so people saying why call her MJ?
What does it matter what the answer to that question is?
Anyway, I'm confused.
What whatever the answer to that question is does not affect the
storytelling in the film.
Flex on the writers not the writing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't see what's the problem though.
MJ is an unlikable bitch.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
You didn't like it.
Yeah videos like I like to I thought she was I thought she
was funny.
Yeah, I didn't like her but she was such a small part of the
movie.
I didn't really care.
I actually kind of forgot what she did in the film.
You guys should watch high top films arguments.
Yeah, we're going to get this going to happen because clearly
everyone's very upset about homecoming.
So I I guess maybe maybe there'll be some good arguments
for why the film is bad because there's none here in this
chat.
Speaking of good arguments.
This video is a good video.
Okay.
Worrying Godzilla.
That's like looking for a story in porn or football.
Oh, God.
I can't believe this became a beam.
It was
everything that wasn't monster fights was retarded.
And did you know that that means it's a good Godzilla film?
We would pay for this fully fledged like well-produced.
I actually
the problem by the way, is this wouldn't even be discussed
not for the fact that we seem to have found some weird impasse
with a lot of people about this because I don't really care
about Godzilla.
I would actually fund this.
I mean, I didn't realize that Godzilla had an
fan base before this.
I mean, I really did and I didn't think people actually
gave this much of a shit about it.
Such a stupid concept.
It's a giant lizard monster.
Big months to smash.
I'm already like it.
People are telling me about like the symbolism.
It's like I don't care about the symbolism of a lizard baby.
I'll say it anyway.
I think overfield is better than any of the Godzilla movies.
I've seen what's the symbolism of this Godzilla jumping up and down
and doing jumping jacks.
It's his chili.
It's a it's a mating call.
Maybe
don't know appreciate it.
I wouldn't expect much more Godzilla talk.
Is this confirmation?
We're getting a e-fat movie.
I'll do it myself.
I love peace and prosperity.
Wow, he did a back one.
Yeah, it was a back one.
Amazing.
Wow.
Very impressive.
Last
several back versions of you.
Wow.
That's a back version of Brittany right there.
Oh, yeah.
That face.
All the same.
He's even he's even shaded like he's color-coded them.
So they look like they're in the same place.
It's great.
That's so many faces dude.
Oh my goodness.
He's here.
Oh God.
Editing man.
It's like so creative and shit.
I love it.
Wow.
Like ironically, look at all the lighting.
It's like this is better than it has any right to be.
Fuck you.
Hey, don't you disrespect the life.
He's blocked out by the glass.
It's weird.
How much he's made it match the Bhutto's face as well.
It's like actually pretty awesome.
Like it's not just you know, paste it on.
Too much effort went into this.
You can never be too much effort for Goliath.
He's a he's the pinnacle pillar of the fat law.
It's actually the best possible face.
They could have ever put on there.
Yeah.
His mouth opens.
That's to say he's not closest.
He changed the audio of the book.
He got Goliath saga sequels officially in the works using footage from Godzilla movies.
Now accepting submissions for Goliath fan art and animations to paste over iconic shots
of Godzilla.
Send them to at meme reposts on Twitter.
There you go.
We'll get a whole series of movies.
Also accepting fan art of the Efap crew and military gear or other Goliath battling garb
as well as Efap foes and memes reimagined as iconic kaiju.
Multiple angles of people's heads would be nice.
He's going full on with this.
That's really incredible.
This was this was really really.
Really cool examples of being super fucking creative.
Honestly, man, that was impressive.
Big thank you to the Efap gang for continuing to have the best.
Actually writing scripts for these ones.
If you give if that gives you any idea of how much effort is going.
He's writing scripts.
He's writing a script for a meme movie guys.
I wonder if we could get that accolade officially with the most meme-able podcast.
Like I don't even know what that means, but it's good.
I swear it'll be an odd bumper sticker, but I'll take it.
I love it.
Curious if there's anything in the last five seconds.
Don't look like it.
Now, where are we?
Oh, yes.
Oh God, Thaddeus.
Is he going to be okay?
No, please don't let her do that.
People call me.
We have to watch this more than once to appreciate what this big done here.
So you didn't realize how good the dawn was until we watch this.
Yeah, so like he's got Super Smash Brothers being like the obviously the vehicle for this show,
but he got like blacked out visions of all of us.
I'm guessing from left to right.
We can tell who Wolf is and Ran Rags and Robot Head.
Who's the one on the furthest right?
Chad.
Chad.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then I would be left of Wolf and then his left of me would be.
Fringy.
Fringy.
Yeah, that would make sense.
Well, before he was Birdman.
Before he was Froggled Croak.
Oh, geez.
No, no.
Please don't let it.
Wolf and Rags hug.
Save Thanos from Captain.
Let's consider the wind for Ephraim.
In Don, we trust.
He even as we talk our little icons bounce a bit.
Yeah, it's honestly.
That is so good.
I love it.
Ephraim Avengers Endgame alternate scene.
That's what that's called.
I don't know what I would do without Ephraim memes in my life.
I didn't know life before it.
Give me a lot of pausing for this one.
Spider-Man's about to come out.
Spider-Man.
We're still talking about Captain Marvel as a guy.
If I had superpowers and a dude came out.
I feel pissed.
Sexual harassment feet.
Apparently, it was Jay to the left of me.
At least Bayowin said that.
Fuck you.
I'm going to Kyle Ben.
Drinker has made it into a meme.
I think I don't know if this is his first one or not.
Yeah, actually.
Okay.
This is perfect.
Oh, God.
He's even using the back of Molly's head.
Oh, God.
Hello, all my n-words.
Sliced nice, I served.
It's thematically suitable that we would free the rhinos.
I'm just firing rhino milk at him.
Like, ironically, it would take ages to attach all these faces.
Like, move them all around.
Pain of the ass.
I've done it for different, what I used to make, like, fucking clips of Twitch and stuff
out of faces on.
Remember when we were just good?
Eh.
Oh, no.
Sexual harassment.
Fuck.
And with the help of the fearless lead Atonal, the Efel crew was defeated by the Massives.
Pretty sure it was dad-old, but sure.
Then suddenly they heard a familiar sound.
Oh, God, it's the Don.
The Don will take you off.
Sexual harassment.
Do you like that Brown Table will be permanently memed in our, like, content?
Let's just be the guy who says everything is sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment.
The big gang.
Sexual harassment.
And the Avengers music is...
It's always good.
Why the hell are you here?
And so the Massives died the big gang.
This story is 100% the canon lore of Efel 36.
I'm sorry, Jay.
He didn't make it.
Someone's asking where the Don meme started.
I can't remember.
I think it started when I was on vacation.
It wasn't legal eagle.
No, yeah, no, yeah.
It was the...
It wasn't legal eagle.
It was before that.
It was the one before that, I think.
Yeah, it was the one with the robot head, because I wasn't there for that one.
He was definitely the robot head one.
That's where it started.
And it was one of our fastest growing memes.
Read up on your lore, Rags.
Come on.
No, I like, I remember it.
I don't know what number it was.
I love the Don memes.
Wait, wait, wait.
Let's check out our Pokmon.
Come on, I'll take you on.
So, here's the thing.
The Massives.
Oh, that's Goliath.
That's Ghost City Snacks.
That's my double topping.
Goliath's attack fell.
Final topping.
Goliath has moved.
I don't know.
Get him, Scenic Snacks.
He won.
Yay!
Bone down to the secret level of sex.
Jesus fucking Christ, here we go.
Long been defeated on Massives.
Here's the thing.
I fucking hate Trump.
I agree with that.
Oh, fuck's sake.
I fucking hate Trump.
Oh boy, there's more.
It's an exact bone density group after the battle.
The entity known as Goliath broke free from the Massive Trainer after the encounter.
People have reported sightings of his roaming legendary.
However...
He was just a black shape.
All you gotta do is look at the top videos on Pornhub.
Goliath will take care of me.
I think that's what it's called.
Shit.
If ever you encounter Goliath, you must sacrifice something to him.
We refer to him as the...
Belch.
We told him not to go in the alley, but he just wouldn't listen.
The one timed out from the church.
Hahaha.
Fucking memes, dude.
I like how even that became a meme.
And so, this one had to be saved for last because, holy shit, I'm just gonna let it play.
This is a thing that exists.
What's his...
Oh god, is this another 3D one?
The most relevant games that stand up today are the ones that gel with our current gameplay trends.
Total J-Lo.
IGC.
Oh boy.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah.
Rags, what's wrong with you?
Both always shit some stuff, that piece of shit.
I understand, brother.
Slice and dies.
Oh shit.
For fuck's sake.
Can't do this, not now.
Oh god.
We need to appreciate this.
Oh my god.
Fill code, no?
Fill code, no!
Oh my goodness.
Oh my god, we need to rewind that a few seconds.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my goodness.
Did it play with you guys?
Yeah.
Damn it, I'm getting locked out.
Oh god.
Hold on, I'll rewind it a bit.
We'll see if it...
Oh my god.
Okay.
Is it playing for you?
No, and... assuming...
Yep.
46.
Wait.
Okay.
No?
Can't do this, not now.
Yeah, it's working.
52.
52.
52?
Mmhmm.
Play?
No!
What?
Uh...
Look, it's been a while.
Rags.
Rags is a retard.
Are you seeing the smaller, or...?
Yes.
Okay.
Are we good to go?
No.
No.
Oh my god.
Look at the art on the wall.
We may have to rewind it and look and see what's on the wall.
You know what, hang on.
If it's buffering me a bit, if one of you guys just pulls for yourselves, I'm going to reset.
So make sure, because I don't actually want to not see this perfectly.
All right.
Okay.
So what's going on today?
But I will go reset.
One second.
I shall rewind it to 40 seconds and we can start from there.
Hmm.
In the meantime, I'm going to go like this video.
I'm back.
I'll see if the stream comes back up.
Got plenty of Fs.
It says stream resume in demand.
Okay, it's back.
Yeah, it's back.
I see it.
Plan?
Yes.
Is it playing for everybody?
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
All right.
Oh, shit.
For fuck's sake.
Can't do this.
No.
No.
What?
Uh.
Look, it's been a while.
Rags.
Rags is a retard.
Are we good to go?
No.
I will.
Poor Bilbo.
Poor Bilbo.
Just tell him what he needs to know, Bilbo.
I pointed this out the last time we watched it, but do you think Tonald is an orphan?
I don't think he can yield in a cave.
Hmm.
Oh, God.
Really, Wolf?
Wow.
Look, I'm not a very responsible person.
That's fair enough.
I think it's prongled.
I got to be honest, I don't like green people.
Rags.
Oh, thank Christ.
I thought you said the P-wood.
So with that in mind, I'd like to bring your attention to a certain kind of story.
I mention this part because that's what he's done.
So what we are looking at here is the bastardized love child of YMS and Freddie Mercury in his late stage of AIDS.
Mini-love child, watch your fight boxed in.
It's artificial bear.
Do you think that hair's real?
No response.
Are you fucking excited?
I guess so.
Hello there, everyone.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
So, um, I'm going to say a fucking hate friend.
Uh.
Advisement.
Kill yourself.
Yeah.
Statement.
Slice and dice, brother.
Yeah, Wolf.
Slice and dice.
Fuck it.
I'm too high.
Can you subscribe to Who Cares?
Spider-Man is out.
The fucking Bilbo thing.
Can I just...
These things exist.
This exists.
Someone made this.
That's really impressive.
Oh, man.
How long do you think it must have taken him to get all those lines,
put them in a coherent script, to do all of that?
A long time.
I currently...
You might have said two months.
It's like the pilot for the TV show of eFap.
Why was I raping Bilbo?
You don't know that that's what was happening.
You're raping him.
But he was screaming.
Alexa, just because someone's screaming doesn't mean he's raped.
And now that'll be the next episode of eFap.
Oh, God.
High quality memes, yeah.
That is really high quality.
What else can you say?
And that actually does it for all the memes.
That's the entire collection.
But I realize that Twitter's going to have like a million more now.
Because I haven't checked it yet.
So I'll just grab them up to make sure that everyone sees them.
In the meantime, guys, talk about something.
Well, I was...
I was laying down, as one does.
Getting a little horizontal, you know?
Yeah, just lounging, reclining.
And I got kind of tired and I fell asleep.
Damn.
And then when I woke up, everything was different.
It was later and there was light outside.
And it was time for eFap.
When I woke up, I asked you, when was eFap?
And you said it was an hour.
But then you said, oh, no, it's not an hour.
Well, so you wouldn't need to ask me if you remembered when I'd said previously.
No, would you?
I was ready for it.
I was ready, though.
You were.
And that was a high five moment that no one can take away from you.
I was prepared to pair, but before.
You know what you weren't prepared for?
These amazing means.
Becoming a Nazi.
Oh, yeah.
So I was lying in bed and then suddenly, I went Nazi.
So sorry about that.
I had Nazi dreams.
I didn't intend to make anyone a Nazi in the street.
But apparently, I mean, everyone is rags 2019.
I don't care about source material.
Yeah, that's definitely what I said.
That's a good that's a good interpretation of anything that I've said.
Absolutely.
Very charitable.
That's that's interesting.
I believe you did say those specific words just with other words around them
at different times that didn't sound like they probably want those words.
You know what I mean?
I'm saying the episode nine question.
Hasn't the already answered that?
Do you have you answered the episode nine question?
I don't think I've answered the episode nine question.
Would you like you're the first person I don't have to explain it to.
You can just answer it.
Hmm.
Hmm.
Hmm.
No.
No Palpatine.
No.
Nevermind.
It was about Finn.
What is your reasoning for these ones?
Because they have no idea what the fuck they're doing with Theo doesn't trust
black people.
Very true also.
But more importantly, they have no idea what they want Finn to be in.
I want him to do.
Oh, I thought you were just going to end it with they have no idea what they want.
I mean, what?
Yeah.
In general, they want to make money.
Yeah.
The guy said it did took two, two months to make that meme.
Oh my God.
I hope our reaction to it was what you were hoping for.
Um, all right.
We have some new memes.
Everyone excited.
Let's do it.
There's some of the Nazi related.
I don't know why.
It sounds pretty reasonable.
Nazi you're good.
Definitely not a weird rabbit.
I look like an alien though.
I'm like a happy alien.
I like that.
I got Hitler's comb over, too.
You got a swastika belt.
This one, I guess was just they were watching my captain ball video.
They put Plank's face on Plank.
I'm the best friend playing.
Tell Johnny.
He's safe.
He's a part one, part two.
I quite like the style.
I eat pizza like a moral man, like a normal man.
Oh, normal man.
You can't even read because you're too high.
Yeah, this is 100% accurate.
Wolf, why are you so high?
I have to be.
Why?
Why do you have to be so high?
I'm not that attractive, guys.
I didn't ask for this.
The robots, Adam Jensen.
I didn't ask to be a Nazi cyborg.
Just like the floaty dude.
This is bad.
He's smiling as well.
That's an Android saluting around.
Is this stuff to decipher here?
You got Timmy up there after one month of efapping.
And so like many others before him,
little Timmy was caught in the vile web of hate mongering
and the verbal terrorism brought only by the toxic brood.
Clearly, he was not as smart as he think he do.
He think he do.
Bill Basis, Billius, the fable of the massive.
The fable of a massive.
Beautiful story, really.
A tragedy tomorrow.
With things written on the arms.
You see that?
TLJ sucks, massive, mean, weird.
Season eight of Game of Thrones is great.
Oh, God.
So dear.
Well, as you have to face these masses head on.
That's spooky.
Wallace.
You got this version of it, too.
Edgy.
Like that in both renditions, it was PR.
Yeah.
Hollywood superstar.
The dawn has secretly been financing count with children's.
He's just collected up.
I mean, they were sad.
He's having sex with men.
I would say loving the sequels is the case.
I like these.
Just your standard memes that I'm okay with them.
Now, these are great.
Star Wars fans believe that Disney saved the Star Wars.
The Star Wars.
The Star Wars.
You don't even need to answer.
It's just like, yeah, I doubt it.
Maybe it means like that.
Like it cuts away the Star Wars trilogy or the Star Wars franchise or
something.
Oh, my God.
Hello.
This is clearly the cosmic second.
Daddled the cosmic.
Elias.
Yeah, you got.
Oh, my God.
This is the origin story for the universe.
You got your face down there in the bottom left.
Major.
Major.
Major spider.
What's the one other than those three?
The third.
I think that's Daddled holding the cosmic egg that tonal is in and Goliath
is down at the bottom.
Oh, the third one has the third one has milk under it on this picture.
That must be Jay.
Because, yeah, that's why you get to look at women.
That's why the female sim low Major Lee.
People are asking in the chat where the cosmic chicken even come from.
That's the cosmic chicken always was.
Yeah.
I think it means more of like where the stream.
It's a secret stream.
They have to ask each other as a fan base to find the secret stream.
That's true.
It was so at least until you supercut it.
Yes, which is actually happening under that stream.
It was so great.
It could be a million years in it.
Good evening.
Good evening, Uncle Bilbo.
Wait, do you see the book names?
It's too small.
Hold on.
I got to open the link.
I like that.
It is your destined game of ring game of the game of the rings.
Game of the rings.
And I don't know what the response series was.
Oh, good evening, Frodo.
What are you working on?
Something I jumped about last night.
It's an epic tale full of analysis, spiders and milk that shall be even
greater than my journey years ago.
What's it called?
I call it effect.
What do you think, Frodo?
Goodbye, Bilbo.
Jesus Christ.
He's a Bilbo.
He's just having a horrible week.
Well, depending on, you know, Bill, but all of us force you to play.
You're a Nazi now.
We'll do the Nazi flag.
Well, this flying the Iron Cross.
I guess it does force you to play.
Play.
That is the last one of the memes.
All right.
And we're at three and a half hours and I'm guessing you have to go now.
Wolf, is that the case?
Yeah, I got to jump out of here.
I might be back before we're done, though.
So I guess now Shadman has to come in here.
I don't have any issue with not being on the same stream as Shadman.
So he's a Shadman.
People were unironically asking in the chat what my problem with Shadman is.
And it's like, is that a serious question?
Or what is your what is your problem with Shadman?
Well, I mean, there was that time that he drew porn of Keemstar's daughter.
So that's terrible.
Yeah.
That is like the worst thing you could ever do.
No, you could kill Jews.
That's less significant.
You guys weigh things up on a ladder in an interesting way.
Yeah, I guess so.
Anyone.
Anyone.
Anyway, I may or may not be back.
So.
Ever.
Cheerio.
Ever.
Ever.
Ever.
Well, no.
All right.
Do not fear, Bea, when the chances of me being back are more than likely than unlikely.
More more than likely than than likely unlikely.
Yes.
They're so you're saying there's if we were gambling people's we should gamble that you
will return at some later time.
Yes.
What if you arrive at an earlier date?
That happens then.
Wolf, you better be back.
I'm making a meme.
OK.
I feel bad for Bea when the past like 20 memes he's made have been gone before.
You're a bad man.
Yeah.
He needs an excuse to draw a big fat wolf creature.
They can't do it for rags.
Rags eats too healthily.
That's right.
I'm going to have a salad after this.
The most unhealthy thing I had today is probably going to be that a little little cheese stringy
cheese thing.
I feel about that wolf.
Yeah.
Well, I feel like I should leave.
So bye.
Oh, just OK.
Well, there he goes.
So the original setup for this stream was going to be doing the whole just right thing.
But since we're at three and a half hours already and I haven't even started super chats,
I figure that we should probably postpone it to another stream.
I don't even get to ramble about philosophy.
Well, I mean, I was going to say.
Well, we'll have to we'll have to have you back.
So the whole reason you were here, I just never thought that we would last two and a half hours on fucking extra credits.
It is a minute video.
Nor did I expect an hour on the news that that is true because it is a good chance.
This will take me another two hours.
Right.
Well, yeah.
And at that point, yeah, it's going to get it.
But it's going to be a bit ridiculous.
We're donkles.
See, I know everyone's like, why can't you do another seven to nine hours?
Yeah, just do another seven to nine hour stream just like that.
Just do it.
The stuff takes energy and a john's.
You know how hard it is to sit in this chair.
Sure, bad, bad you had for all this.
This cannot be this short.
It's not going to be over for another.
It's going to be at least five hours.
It's going to continue.
All right.
Here we go.
The first one, the super chats.
Oh, we're doing super chats.
Oh, yeah, we'll be here a while.
The first one says at the Atlanta United game.
So I'll watch this later.
All right.
I hope your team won.
I don't know.
America.
Yes.
I agree.
I hope America wins like we did in the Revolutionary War, like we did against the Nazis, which are
bad, by the way.
Press S to sue more.
Thanks for advertising.
That's actually fair.
Always got to got to clarify.
Don't worry.
Just right.
We'll have his tisms.
I mean, his time.
Also speaking of tisms.
James Moore said more.
What does tism mean?
Asking for my best friend.
Can you believe that James Moore is asking what tism means?
I think that.
Oh, by the way, James Moore sent me money for the switch.
So I have to find myself a good switch bundle or switch and then I then I will have a switch.
So everyone, James Moore, got me a switch.
That means he's done it.
He's achieved all three members.
The original hosts of the FAP have been switchified.
Yeah.
He's not a cray cray.
Very kind man, James.
Yeah.
You will have to.
Like I said, the plan is to possibly set up doing some form of a thing with that in the
future.
Maybe sort of like Smash Brothers, Mario Kart and something else.
Maybe an all in one effect gaming is no limit.
Pen 15.
I think that was supposed to be a different thing, but I read it as it is.
Well, what you do is you write pen 15 on your hand to show that you have been inducted into
the pen 15 club.
I disagree with that.
The video is only five minutes.
I'm guessing four hours.
No, because two and a half, I believe.
Then we got sidetracked with like just just the best.
I have at this point.
Like you could make a compilation of all the best memes and show somebody.
Imagine it.
Just imagine that experience again, like highlights of all of the memes put together.
I'm showing someone who has no idea, no context.
I'll be a trip of sorts.
Like first experience for a person.
I don't think they believe you.
Would they?
They'd be like, this is nonsense.
Like you made this up.
This isn't real.
Hello, Theo, who was on the FAP.
That's a doubled up accolade now, who was twice on the FAP.
No, that's my one claim to fame, too.
Now, I guess we finally got on here on time.
Also, Wolf, what's your thoughts on the animated Lord of the Rings and Hobbit movies?
Also, hi, Rags.
Hi.
Hello.
I'm going to keep a hold of that in case Wolf gets back in time.
Finally called.
I mean, it was a nightmare, but hopefully it was everything everybody was hoping for.
And more.
We did it.
We talked about we talked about Nazi.
We did normalize them.
And hey, look at that.
Technically, it was very political.
Oh, God.
No, we did politics.
No, we're not supposed to do that.
Who would win in a fight, Ray or Captain Marvel?
I think we covered this before.
I don't know.
I think it would cause some sort of a weird singularity event.
Who's plot armor?
Yeah.
So the question is interesting because the base attributes, it's Captain Marvel.
However, Ray's plot armor is really strong.
And so even if you're a beetle against a black hole, if your plot armor is strong enough,
the beetle will beat the black hole.
It's kind of what we're getting at.
I was going to ask, what's the title of the film?
Oh, that's another thing.
Yeah.
What's the Captain Marvel film then?
Ray's plot armor is so strong that they will just cut out the scene of the fight.
And then it will be said that Ray was the winner.
But what if the movie's name is Captain Marvel 2?
Ray would be the antagonist.
Would she be defeated then?
That's the question.
Captain Marvel 2.
Electric Boogaloo.
Electric Raygaloo.
New Zio, new Ultraman, new Efap.
Yep, it's gamer time.
I don't know what the other two things are, but fantastic.
It's always gamer time.
I'm sure that's gamer stuff.
Hello there, love Efap.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello, hi.
How much for a gallon of your bathwater?
We charge literally millions.
We've not sold one yet, but I think we'll get there.
Yeah, well.
Efap water.
Efap water.
Hi, Theo.
Hi.
Mola, how do you get your videos out so people actually see them when you first started?
I'm asking on my secondary channel, so I'm not shilling.
That's perfectly reasonable.
So the first one that got found was the TLJ one.
And then the rest of them started to flow into recommended, I guess.
So I had the Soma series and the DS series and the Outlast one, the Resident Evil one.
All of them had, like, OK views, you know, like 100 or so.
And then once the TLJ one kicked off, the rest of them started to pick up views from people just checking out my old content, I guess.
So in my case, it was a matter of covering something that was new.
But you can do pretty well covering something that's old as well.
No, you have to get rid of everything that you used to do and simply accept the fact that you don't like women in movies.
And then exploit that for personal gain.
And then you'll be unstoppable.
There's a lot of ways to get your videos noticed.
It's very complicated.
I got lucky in that people really wanted to see someone rip into TLJ without like I didn't realize that was the case.
I was just really pissed at the film.
And it was like, oh, lots of people are pissed at the film.
What do you guys think of Little Mermaid being black for the remake?
I think it's very interesting that they chose that Ariel should be played by this actor as actress in particular, because as we all know, black people are famous for their ability to swim well.
Mm hmm. Yeah.
I actually I don't I don't really care.
I don't usually care myself.
But it's one of those things I roll my eyes like, of course.
I think I think my my position just be remind me of the rule again.
How does this work?
When is it bad?
And when is it good?
Because it always seems to me that like they say black character is played by a white person.
It's bad.
But if it's a white person that's then played by a black person, then you know.
And I remember seeing a tweet that got relatively popular saying something like I love how these people are trying to complain that like they're race swapping it when like
when we're forgetting, mermaids don't even exist.
Like, mermaids aren't real.
So you can't really say that.
I was just thinking to myself, like the obvious comparison, which would be so, you know, Blade, half men, half vampires don't really exist.
So can Blade be white?
Would that be OK?
I don't think so.
How do you even make that argument?
That's the space wizard's argument again.
Yeah, basically.
Yeah.
They're not real.
But a lot of people felt it was a very strong argument.
It's like, yeah, you're attached to a race of creatures.
It's not even real.
It's like, I don't know.
OK.
Interesting.
I think a lot of people just want it to be close to the really good version.
I mean, I honestly, I just wish they'd stop remaking these.
I mean, this is a funny thing.
You master the originals and rerelease them.
Yeah.
Talking to friends about it.
I'm stuck all the way back at the making it like that's my issue.
He's more pizza now than man.
Twisted and cheesy.
I'm guessing that's referencing.
Good old mister.
Twisted and cheesy.
Mr. Cynic Snacks.
Who will be guesting soon enough eventually?
We've got to get him back on.
Then we've got to get Vox's back on.
And then we can do the big crossover.
Donald Trump.
We will have, even though I hear some people fucking hate Trump,
we are going to have Donald Trump.
Could you imagine if he actually guessed it?
And he just casually talked about like a movie he liked
and how inaccurate the criticism was in a video.
And then left.
He didn't accept any questions.
We treated it like he was just a normal dude.
It would be the most bizarre event.
What the fuck, guys?
He's just a friend of ours.
He's all right.
This is Donald, you know?
I fucking love Trump.
Quintum would be so upset with you.
Some of Extra Credit's other stuff is pretty good.
A damn shame.
That's what I've heard.
Yeah, some of them are.
That's why I've stayed away from the channel.
Because I've heard it's such a mixed bag.
I don't know what videos to click to not want to immediately click away.
And which ones are actually good.
I put a pineapple on pizza with a light ranch and it's delicious.
But can we deal with the real crime of peanut butter on hot dogs?
Peanut?
That's a thing people do?
I feel like they made that up just to scare us.
I think that's made up.
I don't think that's actually a thing.
I don't believe you.
That sounds too ridiculous to be true.
I mean, yes, there are a lot of crazy people out there.
But that crazy.
No one's that crazy.
No one's that crazy.
No one is.
No one is that level of insane.
I don't believe it.
I won't.
I won't believe it until you get a hot dog.
Slather it with peanut butter and then eat it.
And then send me the footage of you eating it until that point.
I don't I don't believe you.
Oh, we got another.
Apparently we've got an emergency meme here.
It's 14 seconds.
Video.
Emergency meme.
I think it's a homecoming one again.
Emergency break glass and grab meme.
Come on.
Let me join the watch together.
Oh.
I got to scroll up past all the memes and fat wolf.
Fuck.
Where is it?
Post the post the link in the I do that for you now.
You're the host.
I got to have you do this kind of stuff.
All right.
Here we go.
Come on.
Let me hear you say this one.
Come on.
What the fuck?
No.
No, it was the other thing.
Come on.
I know it's just dangling over the future.
I'm pretty sure because it's 40 percent of the audience voted the homecoming was bad
or at least not good.
That's crazy.
Homecoming is underrated.
Wrong.
It is.
They hate it.
If it is.
Homecoming is underrated.
If 40 percent taken as an average selection think it's bad like holy shit.
Homecoming is having a rough time considering how good it is.
And that's where I draw my conclusion that it is underrated.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But we shall see that hopefully in the future we will have this dreaded homecoming debate.
I'm possibly trying to set up in the background.
Heh heh heh heh.
Shalom Camaradan.
I'm a play Skyrim and use IRL magic.
Careful.
Might normalize wizards and we can't have that.
Might normalize nords too.
Invite haphazard helmet to the homecoming stream.
I do not know who that is.
I'm afraid.
Who haphazard?
haphazard helmet.
I do not know who that is either.
I've never heard of that guy.
Not a clue.
Not to I don't want to miss gender a helmet.
You guys get me through the long days at college and I thank you for it.
Mola you must understand the torment of English college education.
Oh yes.
Oh yes.
And yeah I used to listen to podcasts all the time when I was going to uni so.
I listen to podcasts all the time while attending uni.
I would turn up to uni listening to a podcast and then go actually I want to go home and continue to listen to the podcast.
I went there to listen to podcasts.
Shadman for Efap.
I mean maybe one day.
No.
Maybe maybe one day anything's possible.
I don't want to speak for you but.
Hey guys a friend of mine made a terrible video.
How do I critique it without sounding malicious.
Tell them that we can still be friends.
So you open it.
We need to talk about your terrible video.
I'm only telling you this because if if you put it out there then people who aren't your friend are going to shit all over it.
Make a video.
Because I love you.
Make a video response then send it to them then block them.
Yes block block your best friend like Pro Jared blocks his ex.
Find out if they in some way like whatever their criticisms are find out if there's an underlying like hatred of women in there.
It's very likely that that's the case.
And if so you got to get rid of them.
Get rid of them.
They're normalizing hate.
They hate either women or minorities or the gays.
You know they hate masses.
You're obliged to alert the authorities of non-conformist activity.
Wolf why are you against Shadman.
Is he not a fellow Nazi.
Well he did kind of answer that.
So makes sense.
You know that's from way earlier.
Rags watched earlier content.
Could you define anti-consumer.
Anti-consumer.
Yeah something that is against the best interests of consumers.
And this follow up is you don't seem to define it.
So it comes across as I don't like it.
Therefore it's anti-consumer.
Really.
I generally something that's anti-consumer.
I've never had anyone ask me to define it.
I thought it was fairly self-explanatory.
It is if it is against the consumer and their best interests or their freedom of choice.
Typically something exploitative.
Yeah generally something like that.
It's not appeasement it's avoidance.
Not sure.
Do you remember that endless call in the server the other day Moeller about this video.
You were lurking in it.
Oh yes yes.
It's a reference to that.
Okay.
Wait so we've heard that it's pandering and it's avoiding.
Oh no no that it's not about homecoming or anything.
Oh okay.
Yes I don't think it is.
Stop normalizing the dawn.
I don't know I think we should normalize the dawn.
No the dawn should be normalized.
I feel not normalized.
I think the more people who know about the dawn the better.
Yeah how does he even reach a position of not normalized anyway.
He's pretty much just the most agreeable creature that ever graced this existence.
James Porton now has been with extra credit since the very beginning.
He's always been the writer.
That's never changed.
That's very strange considering the other clips we saw.
Hey two people you guys should invite.
Matt McMussels and or Fact Fiend.
Fact Fiend and Max McMussels.
Yeah sounds handy.
Go with angry instead of Matt McMussels.
I have no idea who either of them are.
But yes.
Oh Wolf I've never seen or read Lord of the Rings but last week I bought both the books and the movies.
But I'm unsure if I should watch the movies first or read the books first.
What do I do.
All right.
I will hang on to that question.
Good old Wolftism.
Oh is that for Wolf.
Yes.
Oh OK.
You need to check out the meme repository's 20 second long response to extra credits.
We actually did.
Wonderful.
Hello big massives.
Hello.
Hi.
Hello.
Hello there.
Hi.
How are you.
Can't believe I used to watch extra credits.
Thanks for ripping them apart for me.
Honestly I think everybody has at this point.
We were kind of late to it but we I think we had fun as well.
And it's just terrible.
And they.
I mean they didn't.
I thought.
I think I told you Rags already.
But like the second I was made aware of this video which is two hours after it was uploaded I downloaded it immediately.
So I was like this is never.
I downloaded it too.
Once I learned about it I was like there's no way they're keeping this up.
And they kept it up.
I think they actually are.
I mean it's at 9 percent last time I checked.
That is.
Like I said I'd have to check but that has got to be one of the most disliked videos of that kind with that amount of viewership.
Like that's insanely.
Like the ratio I mean.
While we were streaming the quartering made a video twenty thousand subs gone and they're still doubling down.
So that's the dislike event horizon.
I mean.
I was just like just because twenty thousand people say you're wrong doesn't necessarily mean you're wrong.
But holy fuck.
You mean.
All I have to say about Spider-Man to this stream is don't invoke Captain Marvel's name Nick Fury.
Also it seems that Donald Donald Trump's approval record just broke a record high.
So I don't know.
It's not relevant but we were talking about the Donald earlier that not to be confused with the dawn.
This is a this is the Donald.
Don't confuse the dawn and the Donald.
But Donald Trump if you want to come on the stream just we could stick it to Quentin.
I would be so happy.
I would be fucking honored.
And I honestly think that he would have the pull to get tonaled on here as well.
Oh man do you think if we got Trump do you think we could get tonaled after that.
I think so.
Make him have a debate on.
We could possibly even get the dawn.
I'm just saying.
Just saying.
Well what if we found the act.
Oh well that was fucking quick.
Yeah.
Well if you piece of shit that was quick fun story.
Yeah.
So story time.
Originally I was supposed to.
Maybe.
But that's not the story.
The story is that I was supposed to help my dad move this cement block to do a thing.
Turns out he didn't need help at all.
And it was only like he was able to use one hand to lift it.
So it's like oh.
How long if he could lift it with one hand how long did they.
How long do you think it was going to take like a cinder block.
Well I didn't know what it looked like.
He just said he didn't help moving it.
Then I went over and it turned out he didn't need help moving it.
And my dad needs help moving a block.
So I might not be back for an hour.
Yeah.
Wait where was he in proximity to you a different house.
No he was outside.
What the hell took so long if you didn't need your help.
Yeah.
Well I had to find him first because I don't know when I was like.
Find him.
It's outside.
He wasn't here.
Where was he.
He said he was outside.
He was working outside but he wasn't here when I was looking for.
How big is your outside.
Did you live in a mansion house.
Okay hold on.
Do you live on a wildlife preserve.
No.
That would make sense.
Okay so the idea.
A gay wildlife preserve.
Why is he coming back to this question.
No.
You're the one who's talking about coming on backs.
I'm not talking.
What did I say that.
Tell us.
Tell your story Wolf.
What are you waiting for.
Tell us about your week.
Your your your weak ass.
Cinder block story.
It's not much of a story.
He said he didn't help with the story.
Started this off by saying okay bit of a.
We had one question when you'd started your story and apparently the story is over.
Well yeah it's that simple.
I had to just find him and be like you still need help with the center with the cement block whatever and he was like no it was actually a lot lighter than I thought.
This story is full of plot holes.
It goes nowhere.
The payoff is terrible.
I don't even believe the characters.
What did your father learn.
Yeah.
You want to hear his journey.
Sure.
A gardener's journey.
A landscape architecture.
Does the story normalize cement.
It doesn't realize cement.
What Nazis.
That's not good.
It's kind of a shame because you were you were this close to some exercise this close.
I ran today.
I went for a four mile run.
A four mile run.
Yeah.
How long did it take you.
About 50 minutes.
Yeah.
That's pretty good.
Well there have been questions.
Two questions for you since you left.
What are your thoughts on the animated Lord of the Rings and Hobbit movies.
Over people rate them way higher than they really deserve to be.
They have not aged well.
Fuck you.
They haven't.
They're amazing.
They're amazing.
I mean there's a certain charm to them.
Absolutely.
They're gorgeous.
They're not nearly as well.
I'd say that's debatable.
But so I'd say that they're not nearly as good as people make them out to be.
But I have watched them.
Hobbits actually got quite a few inaccuracies from the book too.
Did you know there's actually a animated version of the Hobbit that's like so
far apart from the Hobbit book and that it actually makes Peter Jackson's Hobbit
trilogy look accurate by comparison.
Well I was going to say by the way you didn't know this because you you're
really stupid but Lord of the Rings is actually a terrible adaptation.
It didn't even have Tom Bombadil in it.
Yeah I'm aware of that.
They completely removed a character.
Now I know you guys are aware Homecoming is a particularly bad adaptation
because it has a character from the original content in the initials of the name
and it changes who you expect them to be.
Lord of the Rings is much worse.
They literally remove an entire character.
She's gone.
I mean he's gone.
So Lord of the Rings worst adaptation ever.
It's pretty terrible.
It's really up there.
Really up there.
I mean at least The Shining tried you know.
The Shining didn't try.
The Shining movie is nothing like the book.
Oh so it's terrible.
I got a false equivalency in chat.
Chat I am completely joking.
It's okay.
We got to be careful with the Homecoming stuff.
Everyone's very sensitive about it.
We're just being consistent with how we treat every other movie.
I feel like I just poked a bear in chat.
Oh yeah well Finn wasn't anything like he is in the comics.
Is Finn in comics?
I don't know for sure.
The book.
There isn't anything like that in the book.
Imagine reading the novelization of The Last Jedi.
Rags can you please say on stream extra credits more like extra chromosomes.
Oh.
Is that a personal attack or something?
Yes.
God damn it.
Quite directly.
So Wolf your follow up question.
Ready for this?
Wolf I have never seen or read Lord of the Rings but last week I bought both the books and the movies.
But I am unsure if I should watch the movies first or read all the books first.
What do I do first?
Hmm.
Well first off he doesn't clarify if he bought the extended editions does he?
If it's not the extended editions then sell those ones and get the extended editions.
I don't know.
I guess either or doesn't really matter.
The thing is the books will take you a lot longer.
Yeah.
I think that you can like you can place it in the three move.
I mean it'll take you an entire day but you can do it.
Whereas the books.
You ain't reading those three books today.
Maybe.
I mean.
I don't know.
Marathon.
Well I mean altogether the three books are pretty long.
I will be surprised if they can finish that an entire day.
But I mean I would say you know maybe watch the movies first since it's less of a time investment.
Then read books and appreciate like the more depth and all that.
Yeah because the movies are so good.
If the movies were bad we would probably say the opposite.
But the movies are really good and there's a lot that they just couldn't fit in.
And they're both they're both different.
They're just different.
Have you read the books or eggs?
I have.
Yeah I have.
Oh I didn't know that.
Yeah I can read.
Wolf.
Nonsense.
I can read the words.
Okay.
I can I can decipher the man speak.
Also.
My dog.
In the chat says Mueller is saying other people are sensitive had sensitive about it lol.
I didn't say I wasn't sensitive about it.
I'm just.
We just watched it a couple times and we're and then we paid attention to it.
And like man this is objectively a really solid film.
The writing looks have a worse ending changed my mind.
The ending is very close.
And it did cut out the scouring of the Shire but otherwise the ending is pretty close.
The movies.
Yeah.
Well I mean yeah I go ahead and watch the movies first.
And then after that.
Not the theatrical cut.
Oh yeah.
Yes.
Oh yes.
Extended tinnifitive.
It's hard for me as a Bristolian to give money to a Welshman and you didn't even read out
my channel last episode.
Damn you sir.
I.
What was your chat.
I don't know.
I don't typically miss any.
I'm sorry.
Farewell thunder child.
That is my bad.
If I did such a thing.
You need.
We got to find it.
I could.
We got to find it and read.
To be able to.
I wonder if it's controversial.
That it was removed.
This does actually happen.
I tend to just skip over them.
If.
I mean if I can't read them there's no point right.
Like I mean they literally rubbed out like it says message retracted or something.
Rubbed out.
Yeah I said it.
I said it.
Rub it out.
Rub it out.
Oh it looks like he said great to catch you live.
I found you guys a few weeks back and I'm going through the back catalog.
I look forward to hearing you read this around Christmas.
I could have sworn I read that.
But maybe not.
And now I have.
I don't remember it.
Well you didn't you get Alzheimer's like recently.
I can't remember.
So in chat Bola explained massive.
That's some deep law.
Oh MCU Spiderman is trash mauler.
You have the big double gay for liking it.
Damn.
Jeez.
All right.
It's a rough life to live but it's a life we live nonetheless.
Show it to us.
They hated mauler because he told them the truth.
You know the worst part.
I remember when extra credits used to be a decent channel that provided useful tips for starting game developers and obscure historic facts.
Now it's a propaganda piece.
I mean there's a good chance they might still make good videos.
I haven't heard from people saying that they're only bad now but that was definitely not a good one.
Like I don't know what's going on with their channel right now.
Maybe they still make good stuff among the bad stuff.
Yeah.
I hate it when I suddenly support gassing Jews.
Yeah cool dude man.
Cool dude.
Naturalizing it.
It's nothanealizing it.
You got me like that too.
So don't feel alone in that.
Ultimately it's a thing must almost go through.
Maybe extra credits thinks this is the 40k universe and the iron crosses a symbol of chaos to be suppressed by the Inquisition.
It's possible.
You know it may not have been a mistake.
They may not have made any mistakes and it's all explainable.
I mean I saw the arguments with them and it got to the point where it's like whether or not you think you can slip out of what you said.
You cannot deny that the video itself must have been poorly presented considering the response from the majority of people.
At the very least it could have been presented better whether or not the idea is a sound.
The majority of people?
You mean bigots?
Dun dun dun.
Extra credits.
If it's based on World War Two it has to be 100% accurate.
Listening to this while I play as Yule Lane an anime mobile game where World War Two ships are personified as anime waifus and Bismarck is one of my flagships.
You know I would be perfectly fine with Battlefield 5 if it was like all just anime girls in World War Two.
I've been like okay I'll buy this.
I was actually I was playing Left 4 Dead.
I forget a few of their maulers but I was playing Left 4 Dead with Sargon and I think V was there and he was this kind of came up.
He was talking about how with a lot of SJW stuff it's one of those all or nothing kinds of ideas where if there's one little thing that's out of place or one thing that's wrong then the opposite idea is completely and totally in the green cleared for takeoff.
Everything is allowed.
There's no real nuance to it.
There's no you know there's no levels.
There's no spectrum.
It's all up.
Well this gun wasn't really at that battle.
So fuck it.
You can have like female Nazis.
No issues.
It immediately jumps to like the crazy degrees.
No one.
No one would make the argument about the shining because Stephen King is a fucking hack wolf.
How is he a hack.
He wrote the shining.
I don't know.
Maybe they think the shining is terrible.
I'm not sure that means exactly.
Here's the thing.
I fucking hate Stark.
I fucking hate Stark.
I think the guy who wrote this video got in trouble for harassing a female employee so much that she quit.
I have heard that.
I don't know anything about it specifically though.
Is it something port port now.
James Port now.
I think it was.
There's a lot of threads talking about like creepy things going on in the background that we had things.
Extra credits.
Yeah.
The guy I guess who wrote that video as far as I know.
Wait.
Feminist leading people are huge sex pests.
What.
I don't know.
How would I know that.
I don't know.
Does trouble in terrorist town make you want to fly planes into buildings.
Possibly.
Yes.
Oh man I haven't played TTT in so long.
We've got to play TTT.
Oh what.
We're going to do.
You're going to be a wolf.
What.
Exactly.
What.
I thought.
I remember correctly there was about seven million Nazis for 17 million were marked soldiers.
And this guy in the pick has a were marked uniform.
It's not like it was an SS one.
Distinction without a difference.
They're all evil.
All evil.
The British factions.
Must be.
In Battlefield 5 were American uniforms.
The Americans won't be added into the fall of 2019.
What.
There's wait.
There's no Americans in Battlefield 5.
Are you shitting me.
Well I guess it depends on what their which stories they're telling.
But then again I from what I know the stories they told are pretty inaccurate anyway.
Yeah I've heard about some of the.
I could understand like a like a World War Two game that focused on like the more obscure parts of the war without like the traditional American.
Or.
The Pacific.
I mean you guys are getting added at the end of 2019 anyway.
You'll be fine.
There's a lot of really cool small stories in World War Two that don't really get much focus like.
I mean I heard that they were like.
Oh I mean I heard that they were like really inaccurate or at least a couple of them were I don't know about all of them.
I didn't buy the game.
I mean in real life as.
Oh yeah.
I'd like to see like a almost Russian and German centric version of it.
Be kind of neat.
Hate mongering verbal terrorist of the toxic brood in chat after I said the Americas on it.
He said we helped.
Come on.
You guys did help.
My older brother is convinced that Prometheus alien covenant and Dracula untold are objectively good movies.
Send help please.
I think there's any helping.
You just need to like abandon.
I mean.
I don't know man.
Have him watch us watch Dracula untold.
See what he says.
Actually chat mad Jack never killed anyone with a longer long bow.
That's a common misconception.
Your brother is objectively stupid.
Did he kill anyone with a short bow.
No.
I was just about to tweet at you angrily demanding my free fap content when I logged on and found this streaming.
We must have ESPN.
Free fap.
Free fap.
So many people forget that the first country the Nazis invaded was their own from an undead underrated from an underrated Marvel movie.
Is that a quote from First Avenger.
So many people forget the first country the Nazis invaded was their own.
This is from a Marvel movie.
I don't know if which one.
It's a nice point.
I watched it was like two years ago.
Another beautiful Sunday graces us masses with another wonderful episode of a fab.
I'm curious.
Chat will know where that quote is from.
Apparently it is.
Wait.
Yes.
And yep.
So I was like oh it is from First Avengers.
It's also Captain Marvel's like that's not from Captain Marvel is it.
Jesus.
Say that name.
They didn't invade their own country.
I think the point of the statement is that the Nazis essentially like infected all Germany once they had controlling power.
Right.
So they the idea being they invaded almost themselves to become.
It was I suppose it was the idea to support the idea that not all Nazis hashtag not all Nazis had a lot of popular support.
I know a smash bros bro.
Smash bros Bowser Maine that enjoys kidnapping princesses and picking fights with plumbers.
So maybe they're onto something.
Well.
Unfortunately Nintendo did normalize that.
And we have to point that out.
That is kind of disgusting.
Nintendo can do better.
I have always felt that.
Yeah.
Anything is kind of cultural appropriation as well.
The whole Italian mustache thing about.
We saw that out.
Can we solve that today.
I'd like to solve that.
Wait.
Well I don't know.
I don't care how to just solve it.
Do whatever you're going to do.
I'm not hearing suggestions at all costs.
I don't know.
Is there a way to.
I don't know man.
I don't.
I keep myself well groomed.
Yeah.
All right.
That's about it then.
Listen white kids.
There were no open air child prostitution.
They have to spell the tism with specially brothels in Berlin at all.
There were no financial sanctions.
No racism against Germans.
Nazis did bad things for no reason.
Just evil.
Yes.
I mean yeah that is a point that is you know worthy of discussion.
The fact that these they didn't just people didn't just one day elect Hitler into power.
Yeah.
Germany was kind of left fucked up after World War One and he kind of brought him back.
People weren't happy about this.
I am the Vymer.
Like because like didn't it all put almost all of the blame on Germany.
And so they had to fix pretty much everything.
About that in terms of like reparations and such like.
Yeah.
Like everybody had like piles of money because it was worth nothing.
Fear of the communist party was going around at that time as well.
And the Nazis are they represent like they look very orderly and such like and they weren't
the communists and they were the other popular people.
So I guess we'll go with the Nazis.
Yeah.
This is coming.
Nintendo the best Bowser is a single father that supports eight kids.
I didn't think about that.
Hitler was the post credit scene of World War One.
It's actually kind of funny.
This is a newer super challenge.
So it was funny from shorter for a bad voice and does someone need to make a formal explanation
of the 40 percent of the FAP audience to politely explain how stupid the position about MJ is.
Because I will.
You might have to.
I mean go for you guys.
I mean I've seen a lot of like fighting back and forth about homecoming and chat.
I'm getting disheartened to the idea that we probably won't solve homecoming in a stream debate.
But we will try.
Damn it.
Why MJ?
Why is that the hill to die on?
It'll be interesting if that's going to be the main focus but we'll find out whenever that actually happens.
They actually had the audacity to respond with we love losing all the bigoted subscribers.
The tweet is still up.
Yes.
And it was wonderful.
It was doubled down as well.
It's just the kind of thing you desperately want to see from people that you used to respect.
But I'm also referring to the fans because I barely knew extra credits at that point.
Why are the allies and wait.
Why are the allies and British soldier.
Oh do you mean on there like the wheel.
They had the option for allies and then British soldier was there too.
Yeah they did.
Yeah.
Because they don't count as people.
They're not.
They didn't mean allies like that.
Well those allies almost got their asses kicked.
So you know we had to figure out their issue for them.
They were worthless allies.
Dude the back and forth in chat right now.
It's like every other sentence is either for or gains homecoming.
Man homecoming is so good.
Jack Thompson and Anita Sarkeesian approve of this.
I mean honestly I'm not even sure what they would think about this video.
It seems to be that everyone hates this video.
Yeah maybe this will be the one thing that gamers and Jack Thompson agree on.
You're talking about Captain Marvel when all of a sudden Spider-Man is coming out.
You didn't ask for this.
You didn't choose this.
But it's there.
Why are you still talking about Captain Marvel?
I'm going to go and join the 3rd Street Saints and go from street gang to president of the
United States to emperor of the universe.
Nice.
Look at these two back to back chat messages.
Homecoming is good.
Down with homecoming.
Home.
Oh even Blessed South Pole said homecoming MJ is hilarious.
He's trying to defend her as well.
I genuinely remember like almost nothing about her even being in the movie so.
I thought she was funny.
She had a couple of decent jokes.
For most part she was just kind of there.
Well this is the thing.
My two responses are she's barely in the movie and of what she was in the movie.
I think some of those jokes were really strong but I guess that's.
Are they really funny as a subjective?
I just remember not really liking her otherwise.
Do you hate women?
Is that it?
You hate women.
Wow.
Well obviously.
That's why I resorted to Bilbo.
Well I resorted to Bilbo.
You don't just settle for Bilbo.
Understand?
In case of Bilbo break glass.
Oh my god it's an actual civil war in the chat.
Homecoming good bad.
It's terrible.
It's pandering.
It's terrorist reference.
It's great.
She's hilarious.
Fuck you.
She is getting thrown.
I mean I'll say this about the.
Cheers with emojis.
I'll say this about the MJ thing.
Like I totally understand the forced inclusion black washing thing right.
I think on principle that's stupid and we shouldn't ever do that.
But it doesn't necessarily mean that just because it happened that therefore the product is bad.
Because the same thing happened with the Shawshank Redemption.
In the book Red was a white guy.
In the movie he was played by Morgan Freeman.
But the movie is really good and Morgan Freeman knocked it out of the park in that movie.
So on principle don't do it.
But it doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be bad.
Just means we shouldn't inherently make it better or worse.
Yeah.
Just means that the principle is like you shouldn't do it you know.
Yeah we went over that on the Eric Texan one.
Because I mean I've complained about plenty of things from an adaptation standpoint too.
Well this is the thing though we've already said that like the adaptation part is in the conversation we're really concerned with.
Yeah I know.
I mean I'm on your side I liked Homecoming.
But you know I empathize with the chat when they say that you know they don't like the movie because of that.
Because I hate the expense because of what it does to the books and I love those books.
I also have a love hate relationship with The Shining because I will never argue it's a bad movie.
It's a great movie but it's also a horrible adaptation that is a giant insult to the book.
And then this Hill House?
Yeah.
Although I haven't read Hill House yet.
Oh well.
Plenty though.
It's just funny because I've seen The Haunting which just has Liam Neeson in it.
That one's much closer to the book and it's just funny because I remember the storyline and it's just nothing like Hill House at all.
And yeah the synopsis of the book I was just like this how is this considered how could this possibly be considered an adaptation.
And the funny thing is they're reselling her book with the front cover having art from the show.
And it's like this is almost false advertising.
There's nothing like it.
It's a completely different story.
We were like well at least it's a horror story in a haunted house.
I guess.
So I could totally understand the disrespect.
Because remember we looked into negative reviews of Hill House and there's a lot of disgruntled Hill House fans if you know what I mean.
Who were just like this show has nothing to do with the book that we considered loved.
And it's like yeah that's fair.
I would totally understand that because I mean fuck a lot of what I hated about later on in Game of Thrones was that they were dropping things that I desperately wanted to see from the books.
But then they also managed to just write terribly as well.
So.
Yeah.
You know.
And that's the thing we just try and draw the line between them.
Anyway I want a 100 percent chance of playing for the Nazis.
I mean you could just choose them.
You know.
Go for it.
So if we equate this time.
So if we equate this to the movies does this make Christoph Waltz an expert Jew hunting Nazi.
Not only is that true it also desensitized us to it and we kind of are going to become him.
I think maybe.
Probably yes.
Not.
Definitely.
Objectively.
We're all secretly fascist.
Stay toxic my end brutes.
Beautiful.
Yeah boy.
But Morley you know the Empire did nothing wrong.
Well.
It's really you know from a certain perspective.
Like ask Padme for example what would she have to say about this if she were alive.
Exactly.
I don't know how big how big of an issue was slavery when the Empire was.
True.
Yes that depends on what extended universe book you want to reference in which case I don't care.
Has there ever been a case where a white actor played a black character.
I'm pretty sure these cases of that.
I can't think of one off the top of my head but there might be one drawn a blank.
It would probably be an older reference.
Like I'm talking like we like 80s 90s.
There was a Genghis Khan movie where.
Yeah.
I can't think of.
Oh you had Prince of Persia as well Prince John.
It might have been John Wayne.
Yeah Jake Gyllenhaal in Prince of Persia surely that counts as a form of unless.
I don't know what it is.
I'm assuming he's just okay.
Tropic Thunder doesn't count.
So I remember liking the Prince of Persia movie.
I mean I'm not talking about whether or not is good or anything I'm just saying.
Hold on chat Tropic Thunder does not count as a white actor playing a black.
Well it technically is a white actor playing a black character.
I guess we were talking about adapting a source right.
That's what yeah.
Because I mean in the movie in Tropic Thunder Robert Downey Jr's character
playing the black guy is Australian.
That's the joke that yeah.
The joke is that he's like playing a black guy and the movie is self-aware of it.
Whereas MJ being black in the new Spider-Man is not the worst thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
I guess it's last time.
Thanks for reminding me about that.
Yeah.
Sorry chat for reminding everybody about that movie.
I didn't mean to do that.
We just wanted to make sure we got through it.
Okay.
American World War II vets and Nazis would unironically team up
epic predator handshake meme style to beat the shit out of woke
gobbly nose if they were alive today.
Woke gobbly nose.
Oh yeah.
Doctor Strange there was an Asian character who was replaced with a white woman.
Oh yeah.
That's true.
I remember people getting upset about that.
There's one band of brothers made me a Nazi.
Yeah.
It does that desensitize while resensitizing and it it mid sensitizes it.
I was just playing my favorite fantasy MMO when all of a sudden boom.
I was a troll.
I didn't ask for this but I'm very happy because I'm seven feet tall and have a
kick ass accent and I have a pet dinosaur.
So bad.
Oh you have an accent are trolls known for their accents.
I guess they were in that game.
I suppose so.
Be a good guy and definitely don't watch Ryan Dawson's videos you evil
racetisms.
I don't know who Ryan Dawson is.
I don't know either.
Is it a European banana?
Possibly.
Definitely don't read Hellstorm by Thomas Goodrich.
Are these like evil things?
I'm assuming they're evil.
Evil medias.
Sorry for missing last stream.
YouTube's notification system goggles.
Is it because I didn't smash the food King like button and turn off that pesky
head block.
I don't know.
But there are some things.
I want you here last time man.
We missed you.
Well they did gas juice juice in wooden door gas chambers.
How they get around these super chat rules.
All you did YouTube is you make everybody spell things differently and then
you're going to block all of those.
I like playing Grand Theft Auto and I've never been tempted to commit heist
steal cars or sell drugs.
Yeah but you've been desensitized to it.
You would do it now where you wouldn't have done it before.
I guarantee it 100 percent.
You'd do it just to be edgy or something.
Yes.
How do you become a screenwriter.
Do you need a degree.
Is there a guild or something.
Nope.
I don't know if you want to.
Write a screenplay.
I'm pretty sure all the things that you need to become a screenwriter is to
write a screenplay from what I understand.
Maybe there's a definition that involves a degree in that specific thing.
I don't know for sure.
I guess that's a point Jesus has been whitewashed.
Oh because he's supposed to be black or whatever.
He's supposed to be like sort of Middle Eastern looking I believe.
Every time he kills someone as a Nazi Cortana from Halo 3 appears on your face.
I would love my face.
Cortana appears on my face.
Apparently.
Like she sits on my face.
They didn't specify that.
But I suppose maybe you can choose.
Because if that's the case there's going to be a lot of dead Nazis.
Just played RDR2 and didn't make me want to explode a horse with a train.
All these weird people sending a message about how they played games that had
blatant desensitization mechanics in them.
And then saying they didn't commit to those same actions.
They're just lying.
So many lies.
It's disappointing.
They're all big.
Everyone's lying.
All of them.
All bigots.
Each and every one.
The Jewish NKVD and allies were heroes and definitely didn't.
Oh my.
I'm not sure if I can read that.
These are controversial things.
Basically the atrocities argument is very possible and applies to possibly every faction.
In the PT the CIS were the good guys.
CIS greater than the Empire.
Yeah they were trying to resist the Republic.
But they were a puppet sort of terrorist organization from Palpatine.
And most of them were robots.
I don't know what feelings they felt.
The Iron Cross was created in 1813.
Well yeah.
By the Nazis.
That is true.
Imagine being such a worthless lazy meat sack knicker.
Oh my.
I mean it's spelled like knickers so it's okay.
People wear knickers.
Yeah one knicker makes knickers.
You have to content yourself by calling your existence a meaningful political statement.
Everything's political so that makes complete sense.
They have a video on mental illness in video games presentation.
I'm sure that's equally as exciting.
Well let's get it bad.
Baby.
Everything is political because of intersectionalism.
Perhaps it is.
If they were wearing a swastika they're part of the Waffen SS.
You don't need to give them a label like that.
You just have to say evil.
Evil is the word you're looking for.
Evil.
Evil.
Now this guy better hate Charles Lindbergh.
Anyone know who that is?
I agree whoever that may be.
Who dat?
Oh I just hate people named Charles.
Oh.
Nerotic.
Donated a pizza symbol I guess that was for Wolf.
Wolf.
Wolf unmute yourself.
No he's eating pizza.
Really?
I don't know.
We can only assume that.
I thought that's what that meant.
I didn't realize that meant mute.
I thought it just meant he's eating pizza.
Oh yeah.
That's what that symbol is.
Yeah.
For us.
You see that.
You see to us we think that that's a microphone but really that's a pizza slicer.
And then the line through it is the line through it means he's done.
He has sliced his pizza and he is now proceeding to eat.
That is the motion in which he would slice.
That's why it's like in front of his mouth.
Yeah pretty much.
I mean yeah it kind of perfectly lines up with his PFP so.
Yeah.
It's a pizza slicer.
Look up the battle of Castle Ita.
Ita.
One of the things I did see in one of the comments was like a listing of like all of the worst things that happened on different factions sides.
War Trosties and stuff.
And it is kind of like I wonder how extra credits feel about that.
And I honestly think they would probably be like well the Nazis did more evil stuff so.
As long as you say the most evil people are the most evil people are so as far as you need to go.
Let's just ignore everything that happened on the Eastern Front.
Makes the argument more convenient.
No because being communist is okay.
Communism.
Good.
Communism.
Communist did nothing wrong.
Are you going to upload your Metroid Prime stream?
That is in Watto's Junkyard.
In the Discord.
If you want to see me playing Metroid for like an hour or so.
I can't remember how long I played that for but.
That was fun.
Before you died.
Yes.
I put down agreements.
I know that reference.
SJW's obsessed over racetisms.
Suddenly racetism is everywhere.
SPLC and ADL partner with YouTube to monitor racetisms.
Overnight videos critical of Israel crimes disappear.
My almonds are activating.
Yeah.
And I was disappointed.
I mean the Flat Earth video is going down man.
It's got to be the saddest day on YouTube when you don't get to see the Flat Earth theories anymore.
Sad day.
Sad day.
They don't even state what the danger of normalizing is.
At most they say that you might start believing in Nazis which EC already stated is not their point.
So what is the point of the video?
So.
It's like they didn't think this through and they're trying to justify it with an edited comment at the end.
Going from not believing that the Nazis are right and the Nazis are right.
Between those two positions they're saying that it can push you further toward that second position.
But not to it.
Further toward it.
Yeah.
Just to edge.
That's all they were saying.
They want to get you to edgy.
This is your way from knee jerk immediate violent disgust at iconography and that is a bad thing.
Yes.
Right.
Rags is correct.
You can get into serious trouble for expensing political options while in uniform.
Yeah.
I heard of a story maybe a couple of years ago where some dude went up on some political rally and he was in his full military uniform and he got in a shitload of trouble.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's something they're very clear about.
When I was in ROTC they were very clear this you don't wear this out and about when you're like anything political that you're doing any sort of rally or anything like that.
You cannot wear this because you're acting essentially as a representative of the armed forces to whatever degree.
So yeah.
The military has got to be impartial to that kind of shit.
You can't make a statement that way.
Basically.
Yeah.
We have learned.
I mean what was one of the first things that George Washington did was when he was elected president was he resigned his commission as general because he firmly believed instead of precedent that you know being a general or that the army should remain apolitical essentially.
That should carry out you know the orders of the state that it should do all this stuff but it in and of itself should not be a political body.
Yeah.
There's a pretty slippery slope if the military is for one side over another.
Oh yes.
Very bad.
We see this all the time in parts of the world.
Africa and North Korea and stuff like that.
The military is a party basically in and of itself.
Military rule.
Very bad.
Don't do it.
This guy sounds like a cross between crime or Matt Jabo and movie Bob some of the worst YouTube has to offer in a single homunculus.
Yes.
They say that we say this law.
We have we cover a video that's really bad.
We like this like the worst video ever.
But it ranks pretty pretty high up there on the list of bad doesn't it.
Yeah this actually is an ironically one of the really is one of the worst videos that we've ever had to see the dislikes speak for themselves.
It would be interesting if we could get like every video we've covered into a straw poll and see what people would vote to be the worst video.
I mean it would take a really long time to cover an average of two per ephab or so is probably about a hundred maybe.
But I think we could probably narrow that down actually.
Let's just say like yeah just just mention in chat in chat just say what what ones you thought were the worst plotholes don't matter.
It was pretty bad.
It was pretty bad.
I think people might be choosing that one though because it's it's like that's O.G. ephab right there.
That's the one that really does the beginning.
The fap origins plotholes don't matter.
Jackson.
Yeah that's that's a pretty bad one.
Yeah.
Same with Eric.
Wynton and T.R.O.'s video movie.
He doesn't even understand his own position.
Oh legal legal.
Yeah.
Oh we've covered so many bad videos.
It's kind of hard to.
I guess you're right.
We could probably try and make a list of about 10 of them.
Yeah.
Try to get a top 10 going.
Tonaled will always be the best videos though.
Oh yeah.
If anyone voted for tonal being the worst I'd be like no.
No.
Not allowed.
You see guys we simply slow brains can't fathom the high IQ of the smooth brains at extra credits.
Their tisms have evolved.
One day we shall reach them.
Do you guys like nerd writers channel.
I like some of his videos.
I dislike a lot of his videos and I kind of blame him for ruining video essays.
He helped a lot of people realize how easy it is to just look as if you have some clue as to what you're talking about when you do the special editing and the fragile voice fucking slowly and meaningfully.
And maybe that was the lesson along.
And the music plays and then there's some kind of filter on the on the movie to make it look really special.
Words pop up on screen randomly.
And that shit is like the cancer of YouTube is part of what got me inspired to make videos.
So thank you nerd writer I guess.
Yeah I'm not a huge fan.
And I don't know.
Do you guys know a nerd writer.
No not really.
No.
I like a few of his videos.
I like a few of his videos too.
Yes more.
We can definitely see it a few of his videos.
Not just the soldiers but the janitors and the lampshade builders and the soap makers too.
Yeah they're all the soap makers.
They make Nazis clean.
I like to believe that Anakin said that.
Build the women the children the soap makers too.
Can I not drive Porsche.
Don't touch anything Jim and related Jesus.
It's Porsche.
How would I know how to pronounce things correctly.
I'm from Britain.
I say Craig.
Isn't that screwed up.
Wolf is not is not dumb.
Craig.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Craig Dave.
What did you say.
Like the name.
Mm hmm.
No.
We always call it Craig here.
Yeah I know.
We're talking about earlier.
Pringy.
He was upset to find out about it.
That you say it Craig.
So we say it correctly and you guys fuck it up.
Anyway I'm just moving on.
I don't know.
Isn't that name.
No it's invisible.
I don't know Rags played card and just picked up mine camp.
Yeah.
Wait wait wait.
Listen.
Just because there's a letter there doesn't mean you pronounce it.
That's true.
It is true.
Yeah.
Remember the B in subtle is subtle.
But you know Craig.
There's no A in that word.
Yeah there is.
Before the I.
No that would be a crag if that's what you're doing.
You're doing Craig.
No because we have crags.
C R A G.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you're saying Craig.
Craig.
There's different Craig which we have.
You're saying.
There's no there's no O in salt.
Yeah.
But it's really an A.
It's really an A.
Then we'd say it's salt.
I was being confused with a salt.
Right.
S A L T assault but assault which has a U is assault.
English is a good language.
You add you add three letters to salt.
Just to add an to the front.
And you add an up to the front but it's not a U H.
It's an A S.
And then you slip in another U.
Later near the back.
What the fuck's happening.
I don't know.
If you take four letters away from Q.
It's still it's still Q.
I don't understand.
And then comes the million dollar question Rags.
What if I told you my name was Craig.
And then you said a crack.
And I was like no no no Craig.
Craig.
I'd be like oh like K R.
A Y.
I don't.
I just don't understand.
It's weird.
Isn't it interesting.
Spiderman like separated.
Why is it.
Why is there a space between spider and man.
Doesn't make sense.
Where is there.
Where why.
Well how come how come Spiderman is two words but gentleman is one word.
Well.
Because.
Asking the serious questions.
That relates all the way back to Nazi Germany again.
So I don't really think we should cover it again.
We kind of went over it with the with the extra.
And how come there's no egg in eggplant.
And there's no pine and pineapples.
They're used for penises regularly pines on them.
But you can't you can pine for apples but that's not pineapples.
Any Bob for apples in the pine woods.
How come how come writers write.
But thinkers don't think.
What.
English is a good language.
Yeah.
You can make amends but you can't make one amend.
Why do we use the same word for read and read.
But you can amend something.
You can't amend it but you can't make.
You can't amends something.
Why is water wet.
First off it's not.
But secondly.
Teachers taught.
But preachers don't prod.
And.
Well I'm saying.
It's kind of weird.
Look if a vegetarian eats vegetables.
I don't want to know what a humanitarian.
OK.
You measurable.
Look this is a fat forty two.
We've covered a couple of you vegetables.
Body fat.
We might create a new thing.
You mentioned.
Don't know if I want to see the art that Mike produced.
Jay is he a vegetable.
This is from so rude of House Roundhead rags.
I will be in Memphis T.N. on July 14th 16th.
Do you live close to there.
Come hang out with me in your dog costume if you want to remain anonymous.
I do live close to Memphis.
Yeah.
All right.
Then I bet these guys think that the American Civil War was about slavery
and nothing else.
The lack of nuance is disturbing.
Well.
See that's probably a fascinating subject to go over all the nuances of the
Civil War.
But.
Mueller.
Fuck history.
How come.
You fill in a form.
By filling it out.
Fill in by filling out.
Yeah.
But when an alarm turns on we call it an alarm going on.
You know that you're a Phil sophicer.
Mueller.
Yes.
How come.
We have noses that run but feet that smell.
Your nose can smell.
You could have a smelling nose.
And feet can run.
That's the thing.
You can run.
Same thing.
Technically.
There's no real difference between a foot and a nose then.
Yeah.
You can like cut off your nose or put it on your foot and put your foot on
your face and it will.
Okay.
You'll then you'll be.
On your foot.
Doesn't make you run.
Eventually become a huge vegetable at that point.
How come boxing rings are square.
It's the squid circle.
Oh my God.
Hey Mueller Shrek 2.
Shrek 2.
Am I right.
That was from Creamy Sheev.
Shrek 2 is the best movie ever made.
I don't know is he right.
I think he's right.
Is there any is there any counter argument to that.
Shrek 2.
No.
Shrek 1.
No I don't think that's.
Shrek 3.
No.
If Jesus can walk on water.
Jesus can walk on water can he swim on land.
Yes.
I knew it.
The problem is the woke ideology.
If representation matters for peoples then who's represented on screen
impacts you.
Hence Nazis.
So dumb.
I think we'll ever get people saying they want to be represented in their Nazis.
And the old people's should.
Including cannibals and like crazy hillbillies that live off.
You mentioned of us.
You don't.
You don't get a representation.
Original land shark.
Guilt by association.
We need to open the borders bring in a slave class of immigrants destroy families
to push women in the workforce.
Why are you trying to drive down wages and get rid of the population that resists you.
No it's because Nazis are bad.
All right.
Mola I'm glad the dawn saved you from the legal eagle troll and others wolf you
can hang out with rags and I in Memphis in your wolf costume if you want to remain anonymous.
Thank you for doing that.
Thank you for saying other people and then ending with I in that order.
Mola come to the U.S.
Me and rags.
No it is rags and I.
Thank you.
He's probably really cool to hang out with.
I'm sure of it.
Every soldier in the American Army is personally responsible for Guantanamo Bay's
violations of human rights according to this logics.
Only if they wear the American flag on their outfit in some way shape or form and they are an extended arm of the American political system.
Which they are in the army or something.
Pretty much.
So.
Shit our luck again.
Hey that's a Nazi.
They're bad.
You can't play the baddies.
That's a bad.
Thanks dad.
I joined rags server on discord.
I guess I'm a gay fairy now.
Thanks extra credits.
Damn.
Yeah.
Question.
How can how come you can tell people that they have a slim chance and you could tell people they got a fat chance and that means the same thing.
Because one is hyperbolic.
You know what I hate more than anything is when people say take it with a giant grain of salt.
Like that's completely contradictory to the entire point of take it with a grain of salt.
Big old chunk of salt.
With a boulder of salt.
A boulder of salt.
Yeah.
I gotta get some boulders of salt.
Oh great.
I watched an extra credits vid once.
Guess I'm an autist now.
I didn't ask for this.
Is there a faction that has never done something wrong.
Yes. Israel has done no wrong.
We love Israel and Zion Israel.
Israel has done nothing wrong.
It's actually me.
I knew Theo's faction and done anything.
Yeah.
Faction of theonites.
You can't spell faction without fact which means that liars can't be a faction.
Nice.
Yeah.
What about the Japanese that are forced to play as the Americans a bomb anyone.
That's actually quite a good point.
America was right.
Can you imagine extra credits saying that like well I mean you know you gotta do what you gotta do.
Okay.
The projected the projected casualties of an actual land invasion of Japan were like insanely high.
Yeah.
And so there was actually it was actually better to nuke two towns nuke two cities.
The expenditure of human life would be smaller by dropping two nukes on cities than it would by a classic style land invasion of Japan.
Japanese didn't do the whole giving up thing.
That's all they did.
Yeah.
That was after the two bombs.
They were like oh okay.
They were like eh.
Happy late 4th of July from a treasonous colonists down with King George.
Damn you.
Casio.
He was to take you to victory.
He was used to be your leader.
You guys are a massive face.
You wouldn't know.
I mean we can't get a lot of shit in our day.
Yeah and then you lost all of it.
What makes you think you're going to hang on to America forever.
Hey you can tell people you can go up someone and say you are shit.
And you can also say you ain't shit but they're both insults.
But you tell people like you are the shit.
That's a compliment.
I guess a shit isn't special but the shit.
There's only one of those.
Yeah you are the shit.
That's you.
You are the shit.
You're hot shit.
That's a compliment.
Saying you are shit and you ain't shit.
Those are insults.
Calling someone like a wet shit is a bad thing.
But a hot shit is also a good thing.
You are the fart.
Can you imagine going up to someone being like you're a wet shit.
It's like oh.
That's an insult from Game of Thrones.
Blackfish says he's had wet shits more like I don't know.
He liked wet shits more than Walder Frey.
No one likes wet shits.
Well Walder Frey has standards.
Yeah.
You guys are a massive inspiration to many.
Thank you.
No problemo.
Though I have to be wondering what position your life is in.
If we're inspiring to it.
With those memes.
Like it makes you wonder what is happening and where is life going when that is the case.
But we consider it an overall positive.
All right.
How come you can how come you can have multiple like there's more than one man that's men.
Right.
So what happens if I go to my kitchen to go grab some pen.
Then work because the plural the plural of pan is not pen.
But the plural of man is men.
Another one for the books.
Really makes you think it really it really does.
Especially if you're pansexual and you need to get yourself off with the pen pansexual.
How come.
How come.
OK.
You have more than one tooth is teeth.
But if I have more than one booth.
That's not a beast.
It's not it's not a beast.
We have bail in the end.
OK.
All right.
We have we have brother and brethren.
But we don't have a mother and mother.
Our sister and the southern.
We have two means.
First one.
Oh boy.
This is another one of those open link ones.
I like my links.
I like my links open.
So there you are enjoying.
And all of a sudden you're a strong.
I want to play quick to know.
I love quick.
And then Bayouin's beautiful masterpiece of hate mongering.
You're sitting there drawing these and suddenly you're a Nazi.
Still fucking eating a piece.
Rags is like eight.
I look at all my tits.
I don't know.
You wolf's face.
Little little jacket.
Don't fit.
Fucking Bayouin's got a little hit their mustache too.
Yep.
And see you guys.
Oh God.
He's got an iron cross.
You're normalizing it.
Stop normalizing it.
It's kind of fucked up.
Stop normalizing.
I watched an efap video once.
Guess I'm a dog fucking sodomite now.
I didn't ask for this.
Oh my.
The irony of the left calling everyone the hate Nazis is that they were the socialists.
Nazi is short for National Socialist German Workers Party.
I asked a woman to smile once.
I'm a predator.
Yep.
Makes sense.
Probably a Nazi too.
As a history buff.
This video makes me want to die.
Yeah.
How great is it?
I think that was their intended effect.
They wanted to get rid of anybody who knew anything about history so that they could
go forward easier without having to worry.
I think that makes sense as a motive.
All right.
What if instead of saying forgive me father for I have sinned you said sorry daddy I've
been naughty.
Oh God.
No.
I'm not going to say it's the same though.
It's the same with different words.
I can see his point.
I think it's try it.
Just try it.
See what happens.
All right.
Let's let's say someone comes up to you and says would you like to visit my cottage in
the forest.
You're like yeah that sounds great but if someone says you want to come to my cabin in the woods
all of a sudden it's super creepy.
I disagree with that.
It's not creepy though.
I think that's quite natural.
Two men love each other.
I mean when you go to a place in the woods you know Morgan though deaf didn't draw up
plans to castrate old German men to destroy their race.
Eisenhower definitely didn't put Italians and Germans from North and South America to
intend in Kansas to starve them.
I wouldn't know about any of that but I know bad things happened.
I'm an hour late but it's OK.
Predator doesn't predate.
I'm an hour late but it's OK because in the wise words of Bran the Broken I am exactly
where I'm supposed to be.
Much love to you lads and Chan.
Oh extra credits once defended six days in Fallujah a game about modern conflict from
people making this exact shitty argument.
Nice consistency.
Yeah it didn't look good the old stuff.
Efap stop victim blaming purchases of the game.
Oh well I don't know when you buy the game.
You just expect certain things to happen.
Related to it.
I play Chaos in Warhammer 40K.
Fuck I'm a heretic.
It's like never ending memory.
Whatever you do you are is B.
Why would you demonize someone this hard because it gives you a pretext to create a new founding
myth for society and control everything.
I mean man it's a little spooky in terms of how they were not picking up what they were
doing.
Would Valkyria Chronicles be desensitized enough for them if any of you know what that
is.
Do any of you know what that is.
I've heard of it but I'm not familiar with it.
You vaguely know what it is.
Someone said I saw rags porn I'm now a furry I didn't ask for it but I accept it.
Oh.
Sound natural to me doesn't seem like anything was forced anywhere.
More isn't this episode 43.
No actually nerd Rotic was number 40 and then we had a double episode with critical dronker
one and two and then no sorry 41.
No 39 was nerd Rotic sorry then 40 and 41 were drinking.
This makes sense I believe.
But I'll make sure the numbers are right when they get re-uploaded for sure.
Once upon a time these same core arguments were used to justify censoring games because
they normalize Satan.
Same thing.
Yeah and they were totally right back then so they're right now.
Is rags becoming a German Shepherd when he plays World War II shooters.
Rags it's true.
Hmm.
I don't know there's some about them they're just so handsome you know.
Normalizing Nazis is bad normalizing commies is good.
Well I mean fucking according to them pretty much normalizing anyone else is fine.
Any any other faction is fine.
As long as it's not Nazis or terrorists.
Right which the other one is like so who are the terrorists.
They're like here's our list of unapproved peoples.
You're like right.
If equals a terrorist.
If app equals biblical study.
I think we've got enough to fill a Bible's worth now right.
I'm working on the effect Bible.
There you go.
Also having Dr.
Shame Dr.
Shame on for an episode.
Who that.
Yeah.
Who that.
I don't know but he's a doctor.
Okay yeah we'll have a doctor on.
Yeah and I need a doctor to explain to me how come there's nine hundred twenty three words that break the eye before you rule but only forty four that actually follow it.
Getting desensitized to terrible ideas is part of growing up.
Otherwise our thinking patterns remain childish at best and become cultish at worst.
Nazi.
Since YouTube doesn't let me pick one hundred and fifty directly the other fifty come after this one same time as last time more a three way split between you rags and wolf.
I shall take care of it sir.
Money.
That I get to put toward my broken car.
You know you'd have more money to spend to fix your broken car.
If you spent less money on me.
For everyone's sake they forgot just right.
They didn't forget Bolliger said he was going to bait and switch us.
It will happen.
It's just that they didn't.
I mean this is the thing.
I'm I don't know.
I think I'm halfway through super chat.
We didn't expect to spend three hours in a five minute video.
Like yeah.
I don't know what the record is free.
But that's probably pretty close.
Episode nine an adoption question.
Well we did the first one.
So.
You know.
Adoption.
What about it.
Is those the question.
Let's see.
Yeah.
There you go.
We have it.
This whole video is an example of the heretical texts mindset if you read slash interact slash study a thing deemed as bad that thing will then possess you and you will support it simply for having interacted with said thing.
I mean funnily enough they use that against after Marvel right.
They're like they've been captured.
She's been exposed to their tisms.
She's eviled out.
You're like oh.
They would choose trying to warn us guys.
Captain Marvel was trying to warn us.
Didn't listen.
You guys are wrong.
Obviously caught as the best role playing role playing game around.
If you're not embracing the ideology and motivations of the multiplayer side you're on you're playing the game wrong.
Patrick Williams.
I mean it just said Patrick.
But I'm going to add Willems.
It makes sense to me.
No no.
Elliott quick dial 911 40786 for long distance calls.
I'm sorry.
I was.
Ignore that.
Carry on.
Yeah.
So the Iron Cross has nothing to do with Nazis.
Oh yeah.
That was covered.
It was invented in 1813 by the Nazis.
And that was once it was popularized in 2022 six by Nazis after it was crafted by the first Nazi caveman in zero six seven eight two one nine eight eight.
The carving of a swastika in a cave hole somewhere thousands of years.
It runs deep.
It's a uniform.
You need to vomit on the spot.
But if you see photos of kids twerking for naked sodomites at pride parades you need to have a conversation about different kinds of love.
All right.
I thought pride was the deadliest of the seven sins.
Oh.
I can I see how you did that.
We should ask the Bible if pride is the worst one and how to kill it.
Consult the Holy Bible.
You've had new draw tick.
Now get doom cock and beat doom cocks actually been on the show.
He was one of our earliest guests has been.
Yeah.
And it was actually pretty awesome.
That was what we covered major leave the first time we all lost our minds.
It was great.
I think we found them eventually.
Go check it out.
You'll find it.
Just do doom cock and then if I'm pretty sure it'll come up on screen.
Stupid as fuck slash hate is a fun website.
I mean the fact that it was called that was like what is that website.
I see it.
Is this stupid at stupid A.F. slash hate.
I don't think it's stupid dot A.F. slash hate.
A.F. slash hate.
And nothing 404.
Short horror story.
Extra credits videos are recommended viewing in game design schools.
Oh no.
I don't want to go to a game design school I guess.
Just make your just all of the experience that you have playing games your whole life.
That's the experience you need.
Just be like the guy who made bright memory and figure it out yourself and then make a game.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You have played all of these games for your entire life.
You have a grasp of what good game design isn't.
Hey more I freaked out and killed a bunch of guys with funny little hats the other day.
But it's fine because they were all trying to talk to me about Nazis.
Are they Smurfs?
It doesn't matter.
He killed him.
Oh okay.
I guess doesn't matter anymore.
Oh can't you eat Smurfs?
Are you saying they're.
Isn't that what Gargamel was trying to do.
He was trying to eat the Smurfs.
I don't remember.
Was that.
But instead he had to like go to Olive Garden or something.
Corrections.
Solaris by Stanislaw Lem.
Cheers chat.
Oh I guess that was the book.
Both maybe.
Once more another book I gotta add to the list.
Well at least it's just a replacement book name.
You're right.
That wasn't an additional one.
Well have you seen Stranger Things 3 yet?
I shouldn't answer that.
I'm too upset.
People who like it.
Apparently a lot of people liked it.
It was really bad.
It was like really bad.
Yeah but it was a bad adaptation because.
There was no source.
It couldn't even be.
I'm behind in the stream currently on the extra credit guy.
This guy must go mental during Halloween.
You're normalizing demons.
And ghosts.
Terrorists rule.
How far does extra credits whack logic extend?
Did Payday 2 and Battlefield Hardline normalize bank robbing?
But they argue it's not okay to let you play as the robber.
That both sides should be cops.
Yeah there's like a misunderstanding.
That's the plot of the game.
The cops think the other cops are coming to steal.
And the main cops think the other cops are protecting the money.
And they will steal it later or something.
It'll be great.
That's what we're trying to do.
And they hit each other with beanbag guns.
They're not bullets.
The Eldians colonized the world, oppressed everyone, and practiced ethnic cleansing because they were eugenicists.
Now go fight Marley's wars Eldian child.
What's Eldian?
It's an Attack on Titan reference.
Oh.
Is that a motherfucking Attack on Titan reference?
Tunnel snakes rule.
I know that reference.
Tunnel snakes rule.
Tunnel snakes.
More irony.
The left stigmatized Nazis 12 million kills like its sentient Ebola.
But empathetically support abortion.
60 million plus babies killed in USA since 1970.
Now now that seems like a politically charged statement.
Does it not?
You're only saying that because you're a terrorism.
Damn.
You're just saying that because you've been born.
That's true, actually.
Mola, please randomly yell terrorists rule in Godelb.
I think I did write that one down.
Terrorist rule.
You know what, I didn't write enough from that one.
I was just so taken by the stupid.
Mola...
Oh, sorry.
Using Iron Cross as a Nazi symbol and you should revolt it is stupid since German military uses it today and their logo on their vehicles.
So you're saying that Nazis exist today.
Yeah, we know, we know.
Yeah, so you're saying that there's a bunch of Nazis.
McIntosh, the only consistent all violence are bad one.
Wait, is that something he said? I don't know.
Yeah, he's a loon too.
That was another early one we covered.
His TLJ, but do you remember that shit?
Yeah, that was terrible.
That really was.
The extra credits, guys, the gosh darn worst.
I hope his wiener accidentally falls into a lunch meat meat slicer.
He's reduced to a slab of cold cuts.
Damn.
In hell, that's oddly specific.
Yes.
Everything is sexist, everything is racist, and you have to point it all out.
I know that quote.
Point it, point it, point it.
Oh my God, Efab Live, love you guys.
We love you too, Javi.
I also love me.
Hooray.
Just something else that we have.
I wonder what extra credits would think of German World War II films like Das Boot or Stalingrad,
that show German soldiers as regular human beings.
Disgusting propaganda.
Nasty.
It won't be long until people are so easy to trigger,
we end up just like the planet of easily frightened people from the Earthworm Jim cartoon.
The planet of easily frightened people.
The aliens don't want to visit for fear of spooking us.
In the Battle of Castelita in 1945, oh wait,
oh yeah, Americans and Germans fought together against the SS to protect POWs.
What now, extra credit?
Oh shit.
Damn.
No, but they're all Nazi.
That's hilarious.
FYI, for anyone that has Splatoon 2 that the final Splatfest starts 18th of July,
y'all clowns should join me and forget this nightmare videos arguments.
Half of the videos we watch are Splatfest.
That was from Key Blitz.
If anyone wants to play the Splatfest coming in July 18th.
Very odd choice of super chat, but fair enough.
How about a setting that makes it so that the opposing team always appears as a certain faction?
I guess you could do that.
Like everybody plays as the good guys against the Nazis, but they don't, you know.
You shouldn't have to, like a horde mode.
And then they're wondering where the PvP is.
No, like, so you're both playing the Americans and you're both against the Nazis,
but obviously you wouldn't simultaneously, that wouldn't be a conflict
because we all have our own console.
We all see our view.
Do you know what I mean by that?
Oh, it's like simultaneously.
It's like it's a client side based.
The other team of skin does Nazis, but on their side, they're playing as Americans.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That would just be so infantilizing.
I was about to say, it's so like, oh, you don't want to be.
People can't take playing as the bad guy.
God forbid.
God, it makes me like want to actually unironically become a Nazi despite these fucking retarded people.
Become a good, a good Nazi.
Be a nice Nazi.
Yeah.
You have to fix their reputation.
Yeah.
Imagine it was unironically like a group of like the most nicest people ever.
And they call themselves the Nazis and it stands for something different.
Nice and zany introverts.
And it's like, you can't go to zany introverts.
Chemical warfare is against the Geneva Convention, I'm pretty sure.
It's the S.A.S. in Rainbow Six.
So, oh, so technically the people in Rainbow Six siege break the Geneva Convention then.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Some of the traps that they use and like the poison gas.
Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
Would you would you think maybe that we should be educated on this before the game starts
in order to correctly take responsibility for the potential things that you get desensitized
to?
Yes.
I think extra credits is talking out their asshole.
How dare you?
I love what you aren't.
Crime.
What?
You aren't constantly terrified about the immediate threat of terrorism and Nazis.
You must be a terrorist Nazi sympathizer.
That's something a terrorist would say.
Of course, he's drawn like that.
How else would they convey his moral failings?
I think they're talking about Theo's rendition in that.
We're taking Nazis back.
That's what happens to historians.
They just slowly turn into Gollum.
I think every time once you it's tough news to break to everybody that you wanted to be
like imagine breaking the news to everybody.
Mom, dad, I'm going to be a historian and they're like, oh, no, because I know you're just a
ticking time bomb for turning into a Nazi.
Once you read the right book.
The right page.
Especially with how the subjectivity element works with history that I learned from Joseph
of House Anderson.
Subjectivity.
National Association of Zionist Israelites.
I would not want to be a part of that.
Is the goal to make it so that no one picks one of the sides?
You'll have no game.
Unironically, yes.
This is their goal.
Ted Kaczynski wrote about these over socialized massives in industry, industrial society and
its consequences.
Fair enough.
Does that mean in every World War Two game now there has to be at least 10 Russians for
every Nazi, but only one gets a gun and the rest of brooms.
That still sounds too violent to me.
My broom handled broom.
Everyone has brooms.
That's been a way to wake away.
Broom, broom, broom.
How does YouTube notifications not work?
I'm sorry, Dr. Martin Luther Pepe.
I would always want them to work for you specifically.
This is my favorite one.
Match ends.
After a long struggle, the German side have beaten the Allies.
Suddenly, Dumbledore appears in a rainbow robe.
Yes, yes, Germans.
You fought well.
However, six million points to the Allies.
Well, I mean, if you're not going to be realistic and recreate every single element of the world
itself, then yeah, Dumbledore could turn up.
Wouldn't you guys agree?
Tearing up for what?
Boom, boom, boom, boom.
Historical accuracy versus historical authenticity.
So to be authentic versus accurate.
Authentic is much more important.
Yeah, I think so.
They got ratioed hard on that video.
Yes, they did.
Yeah, they did.
It is Schindler's list online.
It is more of you get the genre guns, not the real one.
Yeah, I guess you'd get that.
You could say that this guy's brain would have exploded if he played Age of Empires.
Yeah, all civilization.
Either way, you would hate it.
Rags that all or nothing thing that actually do is do is the univariate fallacy.
There is even a single exception to a rule that accurately defines any categories, no matter how large or small.
And those categories don't exist.
Yeah, I mean, little tiny note, one little one little exception, no matter how tiny, disproves the generality.
Bragg is a vampire.
Bragg is a vampire, not Z.
He took part in the German invasion of the Soviet Union 22nd June 1941.
It's true.
You're a vampire over there.
It went pretty well.
You Dracula untold.
Oh, well, I guess I'm told now.
I got read the pinned comment.
I believe that was the the response that they had.
Amola, have you considered investing in a VPN?
It might actually alleviate the lag issues with the stream as well as just make your Internet generally better.
I don't think I don't think we can.
Yeah, they just hide your IP as far as I know.
Watch Together isn't great.
Use CyTube instead.
Was that the one you were trying just when it got stuck, Rags?
CyTube?
Well, either way, it wasn't it wasn't Watch Together's fault.
It was on my end, clearly.
I see some bigots misrepresenting my stupid chats in chat.
I want to be clear.
I'm against Nazis and see them as evil since they allowed women to vote.
Damn.
Oh, man, that's not Theo at all.
That dev isn't a cute girl.
Do you agree with that?
I mean, I like his history.
I like history with the same person you see.
I see.
I'm also I'm also a crazy fucking hunched over monster of a person who builds goddamn toothpick ports to represent.
Oh, yes.
Battlegrounds.
Do you remember that depiction?
It was beautiful.
I do not feel this video showed sufficient disgust over Nazis.
He said Nazis so many times that it normalized Nazis.
He needs to be deplatformed.
Oh, of course.
Yes.
I got my war history from Hogan Heroes.
Hogan's Heroes and Mash.
My favorite show ever.
Hogan's Heroes is my favorite.
They desensitized Nazis.
I mean, our Nazis.
Nazis.
What if I choose to play as a Nazi?
Is it better?
Yes.
I wonder if extra credits would be like really upset.
They'd be like, this is how bad they are.
This is the worst thing ever.
Terrible, terrible, terrible.
You can choose them or the Americans and you choose them.
And they're like, what the fuck?
We just thought that.
Why do you want to play this together?
You know, what's their response to someone who actively chooses the Nazi side?
But what's the response based on that video?
To dox them and order a kill strike.
Kill strike.
It's amazing that over the last 30 years, groups of code writers have been turning games into violent,
demon-worshipping,
misogynistic Nazis with pretty moving pictures.
Yeah.
That's been their whole goal.
Because I'm half Japanese and half Filipino and have family that participated on both sides,
what does this video mean for me when I play any game about the Pacific theater?
You're a Nazi slash wrong.
I don't know.
It's really hard.
The rulebook is confusing.
You're the worst Nazi.
You're a Nazi.
Well, I will super chat you a grad.
If you stop this helium huffing fags video right now, please make it stop.
We had to go through it.
I'm sorry.
Hey.
Go read the Dresden files.
I have no idea what that is.
You guys know.
I have heard of it, but I haven't really done anything with it.
I hate mongering bigots of the toxic brood.
Yes.
Movie binge update.
Fargo could have been so much better with a better dialogue direction.
The accents and syntax made it so I couldn't take anything seriously despite the fantastic plot.
That's interesting.
I can understand that perspective.
I do love Fargo.
I prefer the TV shows this season, funnily enough.
But yeah, they have kind of funny voices in it.
We'll laugh.
He gave you a courtesy laugh.
I know you paid him.
Then you paid yourself for a courtesy laugh for yourself.
That's fucked up, Rex.
Yeah, I paid myself.
It's shit because I have to pay taxes.
Damn.
Weeb Mormons are actually not uncommon.
Weeb Mormons.
Weed Mormons?
Weeb.
That was like, weeb.
Oh, so Mormons, but worse.
I didn't even think they'd be possible.
I didn't think it was possible either, but they always find a way to surprise me.
Oh, those Mormons.
Wolf, Rages, and Theo.
Any of you guys read Dune?
If so, please chastise Mueller and tell me your thoughts.
I have read Dune.
I read it and it's one of my favorite books of all time.
I like it.
I have not read it.
You read Dune?
Sorry.
He chastised me, according to this, not Theo.
He was supposed to chastise me.
He's jealous that he's not getting his chastisement.
I feel like Bilbo when you leave the room.
Oh, God.
I think Bilbo's pretty relieved when I leave the room.
That's what you think.
But he came there on his own-tisms.
How do you know?
I don't, okay?
I just assume the best because you're a good person and Bilbo would want it, I think.
I think he'd be happy.
He didn't sound very happy.
They were cries of happy.
That's a thought sound like the cries of someone that was happy.
I mean-
The cries of a happyman.
If I put it up to a vote, I'm pretty sure everyone in Efep will vote, yes, he was happy.
Remember men like-
If you put it up to a vote, they would probably say that Spider-Man Homecoming is a bad movie.
They didn't.
60% said good.
Oh.
Well, if you put it up to another vote, they'd probably say bad.
True.
That's how democracy works as well.
Remember men like Robert Lee who freed their slaves and took up arms in the Civil War because the North invaded to kill their families to pull them back into a banking system where 25% of the people would pay 83% of the tax?
All evil.
I literally know nothing about the Civil War in America.
You guys were like upset because you didn't like-
You thought the people in the South were like ugly and the people in the North were like annoying, was that it?
It's not that they're ugly, it's just that they're ugly and stupid.
Oh.
The less you know, the angrier you can get about the whole slavery part, so don't look into it.
Rags, are you okay with being called ugly and stupid?
No, I think that's a very insulting thing to say.
I'm not ugly, and I'm not stupid, and I'm definitely not ugly.
It's okay, I take the ugly part myself.
Alright, I'm glad we got over that.
Alright, fine, that's fair enough.
You massive tisms, go debate Star Wars Explained.
I don't know who that is exactly, but I'm guessing he probably likes the sequels.
That's the only thing you could assume.
Okay, so it's another idiot.
Wow, Wolf. You criticize someone for their feelings now?
What have you become?
Well, I mean, if their feelings are fucking stupid, if they feel that the Earth is flat, it doesn't make them a smart person.
And someone feel the Earth is flat?
That's some infelible? I don't even know how that works.
Well, do you think it's based on any facts? It's definitely not.
Well then, it's a leap of faith.
They have to feel that way, because Flatteriffers are fucking retarded.
That's something a Nazi would say.
I wonder if you could play as the mender of the Waffen SS in a game that believes what he's doing is right.
No, that would make it even worse.
No, that normalizes Nazis.
Yeah, that double normalizes them.
Lefties want to erase the Washington Memorial painting due to political reasons.
Even Hitler allowed art. He disagreed with to be put on display.
Oh, really?
What a progressive icon.
I can't see him.
Remember how William Tecumseh?
German's men repaid.
Repaired?
Oh, thousands.
Well, Confederacy men bad.
So they were all good. I see.
Hey, Rags, no homo or anything.
Hey.
But you have a nice boy PU55Y.
I have no idea what that word is.
Thank you. I go out of my way to really take...
Also, Wolf, what would you say are your favorite Breaking Benjamin songs?
That's a question.
His suggestions...
I think everything from the Dear Agony album is underrated.
His suggestions were cruel.
And people give more attention to phobia than they deserve.
Great album, but I think Dear Eigen doesn't get enough attention.
It's MF Chicken Flipper, and he said his favorites were cruel and evil angel.
He said Chicken Flipper.
Remember how Thomas Jefferson lost his dad at 12 years old?
All his dad slaves went to his uncle, and when he grew up, TJ went into debt to purchase their extended family.
They could be together.
He said TJ just immediately thought of an amazing atheist.
He could be together even though he moved and didn't know them personally.
Nope, he's just an evil white rapist.
Yeah. Yes.
This is a super chat that's just penis.
I feel like we've had these before. I'm not sure what to do with them.
I bet you've had penis before.
Yes, but I've never known what to do with them.
I put them on a plate.
Penis.
After watching extra credits, I shaved a swastika into my Siamese cat.
These animal torches must be stopped.
Hashtag we were there from the beginning.
Yeah, the tonal arc we did as we did highlight.
It's right from episode one.
Grace all the way back.
Been watching beef4efap even had a name.
Hashtag no regrets.
Those were the days.
The simpler days.
Well, moles computer work again.
Is this the last episode of beef have find out in the next episode of Dragon Ball Z.
Find out in the next episode of beef app.
If there is a next episode of the fat.
That bulge is a plus.
What what.
You wouldn't wait.
Are you and Wolf still going to do that joint media reloaded you plan before you fat began?
What was that plan?
We were going to do that joint.
All right.
Oh, is that annihilation?
I think it was either.
Yeah, I think it was either annihilation or something else.
I don't remember.
Oh, it's probably a rival.
No, I'm pretty sure it was annihilation because that was like it was annihilation and Terminator Genesis.
Those were the ones.
Okay.
I thought you really didn't like arrivals.
Well, I can't remember if it was the plans to do.
I don't know if I plan to do one on.
But I know that we were going to do one on a night because we watched it and laughed our asses off at it.
And that's a serious regret not having recorded that and the mummy three.
That was such a good reaction.
Live again.
Stayed up till 6 a.m. for this wild ride.
Night, lads.
Good night.
Good night.
Yet it's a Gundam to talk about this.
He made a video.
I don't know who that is.
Do you guys know who it's a Gundam is?
I heard of him.
The name thrown around a few times.
He's on the YouTube.
He makes the videos.
Boys.
If he was on YouTube, then wouldn't he be here right now?
No.
Nailed it.
You boys and doggos do it well.
Keep it up.
Spider-Man Homecoming is very tightly written.
One of the best MCUs.
I wrote a book.
Could I pay you three a glorious sum to read and send back notes?
No, I don't have the time, actually.
I don't really have the time either, unfortunately.
Yeah, reading a whole book takes up a lot of time.
Yeah, and I tend to have a blanket statement of I don't review on request for anything.
Because the second that I do, then I have to come up with some kind of rule for how.
And I certainly wouldn't want to do it based on payment and stuff.
It's going to get complicated.
And then it also takes away time from being able to make my own work.
But best of luck for the book that you've written.
Yes, absolutely.
Where's that Man of Steel eFap more?
Gimme gimme.
Eventually.
This is the thing.
There's a lot of eFaps potential.
We've still got to do that one where we get to watch Van Helsing and then watch Nostalgia Critic talk about it.
We were going to do a Man of Steel eFap.
Yeah.
We've got this video saying Man of Steel is actually not terrible.
Are they by Children with Down Syndrome or something?
I mean, I don't know if I want to make fun of them.
I haven't seen the video fully, but I'm pretty sure it's, you know, it's like an all-age dude.
It can't be nice to someone that unironically likes Man of Steel unless they like actually have like a mental deficiency.
I'm pretty sure the YouTube view as well is like why you're wrong about Man of Steel as well.
I'm pretty sure that's how it's framed.
Oh, no.
That's like a horrible fucking movie.
Remember, Ranks?
Why, the Raimi movies are worse than you remember.
Yeah, and all it did was remind us how amazing the two were.
Yeah, I got that experience with watching Far From Home reviews with Fringy over these past few days.
We've been like, man, these movies are actually kind of, it's even better than I realized,
but Far From Home is getting a lot of terrible reviews, that movie.
It'll be interesting to see what happens once you guys give it a watch scene.
We can talk about it on the next eFap about how terrible it is.
Or we'll just disappoint our audience once again and say that Spider-Man the MCU isn't so bad after all.
Either way.
Yeah, I'll talk to you about it tonight after I sleep with my friend.
How long until that's happening, by the way?
After you go and move your cinder block.
What?
Yeah, after you go tonight and move your cinder blocks with your daddy.
But I don't, he moved it himself.
Oh, I bet.
He doesn't have to do that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm sure that's what you say.
That is what I said in chat.
Far From Home is trash.
I loved Far From Home.
Well.
Far From Home has been rated high.
What are you talking about?
So it's, was it 7.1 on IMDB when I last checked it?
Not a good score for something that's brand new.
I mean, it's respectable.
IMDB's rule is if it falls below seven,
not a movie that you should probably spend your time on.
I mean, the seven's fine.
No, it's great.
It's not a guarantee of anything,
but obviously these numbers don't necessarily mean anything.
Everyone's wrong about these things.
Like you get crazy high ratings for terrible things and vice versa.
It's just like on average, but apparently it's 8.1 right now,
which is pretty healthy.
Yeah, that's good.
That's a good score.
Yeah, that's what I rated the first one.
So yeah, I guess I was wrong about that,
but the, I've heard a lot of criticism
and I've seen a lot of essay videos explaining how bad it is.
So we are yet to see how the conversation shall evolve, I imagine.
I haven't checked his rotten tomatoes, but that could be doing well too.
Why do Peter Parker and Peter Quill have the same first name?
People will get confused.
It's like they don't know what they're doing with these characters.
People hate it because they associate MJ with a redhead.
It's just dumb.
That was from James Moore, by the way.
I mean, if they associate a character that's traditionally been a redhead
with a redhead, I mean, that's not,
that's not anything like really out there.
That's fine.
I mean, I don't know if...
I mean, I associate the expansive characters with good characters.
But the thing is, I don't fucking think the expansive characters
in the show are that good though.
Like, I don't know if it's...
No, yeah.
I associate the show characters with the good characters,
meaning that I hate the show because of what it does to the characters.
But do you though?
Yeah, that's why I don't watch it.
Do you though?
Yeah.
Well, okay then.
Mole is a sucker for Spider-Man, so you'll think it's underrated.
If I was a sucker for Spider-Man, then why would I think that Amazing Spider-Man
wanted to a terrible as well as the third Raimi Spider-Man?
Like, wouldn't I just approve of all Spider-Mans?
Unless they mean the MCU Spider-Man, in which case, yeah,
Homecoming is totally underrated.
I would stand by that statement.
When 40% say it's bad, that shit's something wrong.
Hey guys, first time on in a while.
So, Wolf, are you still trying to... for a trade?
If so, why a trade?
Are you still trying to...
No, I mentioned...
I mean, I mentioned like thinking of doing a trade.
I haven't looked too far into it.
A trade?
How come A trade is good, but if you're B trade, it's bad?
What?
Oh, those are two different spellings of words though.
I don't think so.
That's the same thing.
Underrated among eFAB watches.
Yes, I would happily say that that was what I was trying to say rather than as a whole, but...
Trade is T-R-A-D-E.
B trade is T-R-A-Y.
T-R-A-D-E. B trade.
No.
Yeah.
B-E-T-R-A-Y. That's B trade.
No, B-T-R-A-D-E. B trade and A trade.
A trade is good, B trade is bad.
Oh, I thought you were talking about B trade.
No.
Yeah.
Like B trade.
What?
B trade.
It's really simple.
You're such a massive.
I think I'm following that.
I hear some guy in chat.
Well, if you C trade.
If you C trade.
Oh, it's okay to C trade.
What if you're D trade?
Especially if your country's economy is built off of C trade.
It's been very profitable.
I see.
Yeah.
So what if you raid a seat?
Heat raid.
If you raid a seat.
E trade.
That'd be a very uneventful raid.
But it would be a C trade.
What the fuck are you talking about?
Let's carry on.
Goliath, killing of the monsters.
Yeah, that's accurate to the meme.
Here's $5 for giving me something to laugh at while working on a home improvement problem.
I suck at do-it-yourself stuff.
Don't we all?
Homecoming is a solid movie.
My issues with it are only adaptation.
MJ is fine.
Peter may feel more like Ben left instead of died and had no money problems.
This is always a big part of Spider-Man for me.
I think that's fair enough.
Yeah.
Homecoming seems to grasp at the core of what Spider-Man is, for me at least.
But it doesn't do those things that that person wanted to see, I guess.
Sure.
I mean, I was fine with them not showing the Uncle Ben dying thing for the hundred trillionth time.
Yeah, we had to see how he did.
But you were upset that we didn't get to see the scene where he breaks into the science lab
and he accidentally gets bitten by a spider and then kills it and then runs outside, right?
Uh-huh.
Well, if you didn't say anything, are you broken?
Am I supposed to say something?
Yes, I asked you.
Useless.
Utterly useless.
I finally made a Joseph Anderson...
Oh, I finally made Joseph Anderson truly massive.
That's actually something I didn't even catch.
Joseph Anderson was massive in that meme.
He was maa massive.
I was going to say, where's the recognition? They're terrible.
People meme EFAP so much because you guys react to them on stream.
Since you all entertain us, the idea of the reverse is happening with spending hours of editing on.
You already know that, though.
I mean, but the memes are so good, though. How can we not?
It's a nice symbiotic relationship.
Even though it's literal like it can be like two hours of watching the most nonsensical memes ever, and yet you have like 2,000 people watching it.
Is that concerning?
Is this... should we call doctors?
Like many of them? Like an army?
I'm an army of doctors?
I'm an army of doctors?
A doctor army?
A army.
Their DPS is shit, but man, they can out-heal really well.
Military paramedics?
They have a giant ring of healing each other and then they just walk into people
and hit them over.
What if they made Hux black in episode 9?
We could realize it's a false occurrence.
Then I would win the bet.
He could be the best.
I would win the bet.
I hope they do.
I would throw B for a loop.
What does the winner get?
We didn't decide anything.
I think it's just recognition of being the smart one.
Just have James Moore buy him a Tesla or something.
A $100,000 Tesla?
A $100,000 Tesla.
How about three?
So then I can be on par with Boogie2988 and I can complain about my life.
You haven't gotten new teeth yet. You're not even close.
You're right. My teeth aren't.
It's because I like my old teeth. I take good care of my teeth.
No.
Teeth are bad for you.
That's what we were taught in Britain.
Supposed to knock them out with a hammer from an early age.
Is this not normal? Okay, fine.
You guys are weird.
Yeah, I was waiting for the Americans to, you know, agree.
Apparently there's not a thing over there.
The first thing I see when I start the stream is a Pokmon battle between Mauler and Quentin with cynic snacks and Goliath.
I love this community.
It is an interesting one.
Actually, you guys live as much as I can.
Sent you two new fan arts.
I think you've missed one or two in the past, but it's the laugh you guys give me that makes it worth it.
Made my first two or three fab memes.
Just resend them.
If you think I may have missed them, I do miss stuff.
Like I've got a whole bunch of Twitter notifications right now.
No memes, though.
Good.
It would be bad to miss a meme.
Here's money, you masses.
I'll listen later.
All right. Yay.
Hey, Rags.
Hey.
Just wondering, have you guys seen the new Stranger Things?
I think it was better than season two overall.
Loved it despite some big problems.
I think it was better than season two as well.
But...
Season two is pretty bad.
Season three's plot line is beyond retarded.
Season three's characters are okay.
But the thing is, there's not much they can do with them because they're completely damaged.
What were you saying, Wallof?
I just don't even care about Stranger Things at all.
Maybe you should.
Maybe you hate it because you hate the 80s because it reminds you of your birthplace.
I wasn't born in the 80s.
You should be happy.
I said birthplace, not birth time.
Well, why would that remind me of my birthplace?
Well, if you were born on the Chinese year of pizza.
Yeah.
Is there a Chinese year of pizza, Rags?
You didn't know that.
Yeah, the one you were born on.
Uh-huh.
Why would they have a Chinese year of pizza instead of the Italians?
I'm sorry, I'm pretty sure that's not a...
It's not a very interesting question.
Like, well, they have like a year of the monkey, but there are monkeys outside of China.
You mean in Africa?
Yeah, I'm sure there's some monkeys in Africa.
And then Wolf was silent.
All right.
Yeah.
Your video hasn't made me a Nazi, but it's made me weirdly Vichy French sympathetic.
It took me about two weeks just to do that one crowd shot with all the faces.
That's from Meme Repository, where they're all running in terror and have all the lighting and stuff.
It's appreciated, sir.
Hopefully it doesn't knock too much, you know, energies out of you folks to be making these amazing memes.
Wolf was born in a frozen forest with pizza.
Thanks for another fun stream, everyone.
I had a great week and remember to smile.
Whoa.
Asking people to smile, really?
Like, we just got done talking about how people are obviously Nazis and they should be silenced and dehumanized.
And now you want to start telling people to smile?
Oh, you have so many problems to solve.
Sounds like someone who's some way down that slippery slope.
Boring my brother's laptop to watch this.
Asked him for the charger, too.
He asked how... no, why?
How long is it, a few hours?
And I just laughed in his face.
He probably thought, like, I'm way overreaching here, but is it a couple of hours?
And he's like, um, I mean, the first part is...
Rags got switched for Nintendo.
No censor policy.
No censorship here.
City, city, city, city, city, city, city, cities.
Only three hours.
I knew you were an orphan.
Damn.
Uh-oh.
Here's some money for the doggo.
Keep work sitting in that chair and moving your lips, Rag.
Oh.
Yeah, I think this went a lot.
I think that's why, because I've worked a bunch, especially the last few days in it.
I think it'll turn out really, really well.
I think it'll be a pretty good one.
Got a good mix of animations.
A lot of them new... or not animations.
I have the new animation, but I have a lot of new poses and faces.
And I got some gameplay thrown in for long segments.
So that helps immensely.
What is a Tism?
Wolf, would you like to field that question?
Yes, Wolf.
You can explain to us what the Tism is, since you have first-hand experience to exposure.
Well, I actually managed to get a couple of my real-life friends to start saying Tism unironically now.
Yeah.
We were trying to figure out what the origins of the Tism are.
And one of my friends said,
it comes from us giving so little of a shit about people with autism that we don't even bother with the awe.
Like, awe, he has the Tism.
That sounds worse, though.
They'd be like, that's condescending.
It is condescending.
How do you know it's not based after something scientific like magnetism,
or something, you know, like, good, like, altruism?
Altruism?
Altruism.
What if the roots are the same, by the way?
Magnetism and autism both come from the same...
Perhaps that's a chicken and the egg sort of thing.
Did magnetism cause autism, or did autism cause magnetism?
I picked the latter.
I think that that's a question for the ages.
Or the egg.
Either one.
Or the egg.
Of course the dog demands to see the peanut butter.
Yes.
Hey, love watching you massive dissect videos.
It was definitely a...
It was an autopsy this time around.
That video was long destroyed by everybody.
Autistics, right?
Osmactism, yes.
Autistics, Autisticals of the Worlds unite.
Autisticals.
Matt McMusles is the worst of the SBFP crew, SJWBad.
Who's SBFP?
Super Best Friends Play.
A Let's Play channel that broke up somewhat recently.
That's a bit harsh to Matt, though.
So is Matt McMusles one of those people?
Yeah.
There you go.
Humanize Ben Shapiro by getting him on Efap.
That would be so funny.
I'd love to...
Hey, Ben Shapiro, if you want to come on Efap, you're more than welcome.
Yeah.
That would be...
I'd want to show him some Efap memes just to hear him be like,
I don't understand what these are.
What's happening?
What is this?
What is happening?
I thought this was a professional podcast.
This is not a substitution for an actual substantive discussion.
Hey, Ben Shapiro, are you like, turnled?
He's like, what?
Turnled?
Like, is that like Donald?
Turnled?
Donald?
Because I like him.
I want to ask him, like, when his balls are going to drop.
Because, man, does it not sound like he's going through...
I think it would be the coming of the 17th moon.
Like, he probably...
Probably what it is.
On the Jewish calendar, yeah.
Yeah.
So you were helping your dad move boulders?
Uh-oh.
I would suck a fart out of the wolf.
Oh.
Ugh.
I can't believe I have to go through this massive named mauler
in order to give you this money, Rags.
I've been loving every second of your content ever since 2016.
I want to show my appreciation.
Oh, wow.
Thanks.
I'm really, really glad that you like it.
Thanks very much.
We'll add that on.
Rags, making some money tonight.
Yeah?
You should stream so that these people can do it directly.
I need to get the PayPal set up, so...
Oh, wait.
But you have super chat set up, don't you?
I do, yes.
But in case anyone would just like to send me anything on PayPal.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
I could transfer that directly to my bank account.
I think I actually...
I need to go to the bank and then set up an account
and then have that account also be under my name
so I can make a second account just for the channel.
Yeah.
To be different from my, like, personal, actual,
physical, real, legitimate account.
The one I used to launder money in Zimbabwe.
Do you watch Stranger Things or do you think it's crap?
I love season one.
I furiously despise season two.
Season three was crap.
I don't know what everyone else here thinks.
Oh, I don't watch it, so it's okay if you do it.
I enjoyed season one.
I enjoyed season two superficially,
and I never watched either again,
and I don't care about season three at all.
I never started it.
I got blockaded out by the D&D game at the start.
I couldn't handle it.
Because...
Don't anymore go home.
I play D&D and it's...
I don't like representations of D&D and media.
Is this wrong?
Kinda, I guess.
Did you guys see the Twitter picture of Vito
with the Beldalfian bathwater?
Yes.
Yeah.
I did.
I mean, whatever makes you happy, right?
I saw the tweet where they quoted him
and was like,
it doesn't work as a joke when you're the target audience.
I mean, I'm curious what kind of video
he's going to make with that, what he's going to do.
He's gotten a lot of punching bag attention
with that bathwater thing.
Well, you know, any attention is going to change.
I mean, look at him.
He looks exactly like the kind of person
unironically buy bathwater from somebody.
But that's the joke off.
Yeah, that's why it's so funny.
I wonder if part of the joke is saying that
the Court of Public Opinion is just as valid as a normal court.
I've heard this said a couple of places.
Apparently, this is probably a lie.
I don't know.
I'm just reiterating what other people have been saying
in different places.
Fifty people have said that they've gotten herpes
because they've been drinking the water that she had
and she was infected with it.
What?
I was like, that doesn't sound real.
That doesn't sound real.
That sounds like citation needed.
I would hope God that actually happened
because that would be the funniest thing in the entire world.
No, I don't want fifty people to get herpes.
That would be terrible.
Well, no, I want them to get herpes.
Gosh, Wolf, you're such a massive...
Well, no, here's the thing.
If you're going to buy bathwater from somebody
and then drink it, you kind of deserve to get herpes.
No, you don't deserve to get herpes.
No, you don't.
Listen, no, you don't deserve it.
No, yes, you do.
At that point...
No, you don't.
No, it's like if you go up on an active volcano
while it's erupting and saying,
I'm going to hike it right now.
You kind of deserve to die.
No, you don't deserve to die.
Yes, you do.
You're asking for it.
No, you're not asking.
There's a difference.
You're begging for it.
No, listen, if you...
Yeah, first off, it's victim blaming.
Second off, if I dressed up all in black,
not that I wear clothes,
but if I were to put a bunch of black clothes and stuff on
and then run across a busy highway in the middle of the night,
I don't deserve to be hit by a car.
But getting hit by a car will probably happen to me.
It'll be a natural consequence of the decisions that I've made.
No, no, no.
If you're going up a volcano that's erupting at that moment,
then you kind of deserve it if it happens.
No, you don't deserve it.
Yes, you do.
No, you don't.
You don't deserve death.
I mean, if you drink somebody else's bath water,
first off, that's dumb.
Second, if you get herpes...
Yes, it's dumb.
It is very dumb.
But a child doesn't deserve to be shocked
if they stick a butter knife into a socket.
It's not the same thing.
We're not talking about children here.
We're talking about adults that are buying bath water.
No, it's still stupid,
but it's not something they deserve.
It's not like they've committed some kind of crime
and they need to be given punishment.
I never said it was a crime.
I just said...
You said deserve.
They clearly deserve it.
No, they don't deserve it.
They deserve the Darwin Award for being idiots.
I don't agree with that interpretation,
but people deserve it.
If you drink somebody else's bath water,
obviously there's going to be something in it.
Yeah, not obviously, but probably.
I agree it's very stupid.
I agree it's insanely stupid,
and the people who do that are...
I don't know.
If 50 people got herpes,
I couldn't care less.
Enjoy the rest of your miserable lives.
I think a lot of this is based on the concept of deserving.
I mean, play a stupid game, win a stupid prize.
I don't know what else to tell you.
Don't drink somebody else's bath water.
I'm not saying that what they did was smart.
That's doing something that's gross and stupid.
What my argument here is,
essentially it revolves around the nature of deserve.
I don't think that people deserve diseases
for making stupid decisions.
They will get them, perhaps.
It will be a natural consequences of the decisions that they make,
but I don't think that it's something that they inherently deserve
to have happen to them.
I completely disagree.
I think that they have earned that at that point.
It's just like, I don't think that if two gay men have sex, right,
and protected sex, that they deserve to get AIDS.
They're bringing it on to them, aren't they?
They're doing something with an increased risk of it.
That doesn't mean that they deserve to get AIDS.
They should know the risk, and if it happens, it's like,
well, it sucks for you.
Yeah, it's terrible, and you shouldn't generally do that
because it is an increased risk.
But that doesn't mean that if they get AIDS,
it's something that deserved to happen to them.
Theo, weigh in.
Oh, geez.
Did they invite the consequences of the action onto themselves?
You could call that deserving.
I don't know.
Might, might not.
Did their actions directly invite the consequences upon themselves?
I don't think...
Intense.
They bought bathwater that someone had been in and drank it.
That's true.
That's bringing it upon themselves.
I don't know if that's a good way to frame deserving.
I think deserving should reflect upon the quality of who you are
and be framed in terms of rewards.
If you're drinking someone else's bathwater,
that says very little about the quality of who you are as a person.
I don't think being stupid, right,
is necessarily something that should make you worthy
of deserving bad things happening to you.
I think it will happen.
I think bad things will happen to you if you make stupid decisions.
But I don't think, especially from like a moral perspective,
that you deserve to have those bad things happen to them,
especially if you do it because you're stupid or ignorant.
So, so deserving is purely on a moral axis here, then?
You just have an issue with the word that I'm using.
What, what, what the four or five times I said that this is based
around the issue of how we define deserve. Yes, I hope. Yeah.
Okay.
So if I say that they definitely earned that herpes,
if I say they had it coming, then yeah, absolutely.
They have that coming.
Yeah. If you do stupid, if you do stupid shit,
then bad things will happen to you.
That doesn't mean you necessarily deserve to have that happen to you.
It's just that it will happen to you or there's a very high risk
of it happening to you.
All right. Well, I mean, but for instance,
if they get herpes, I'm laughing at them.
I'm I'm not laughing at them. I think it's terrible.
I think I don't I don't like to laugh at other other people suffering.
That must be a terrible thing to happen.
Well, I mean, it wouldn't have happened if they didn't decide to drink
somebody else's bath water. No, I agree. I agree.
I just I don't know.
That just sounds like a terrible thing to happen to a person.
I wouldn't want if I could snap my fingers,
and ensure that nobody bees, I would do it.
I mean, if I could snap my fingers and erase all stupid people,
I'd do it, too.
But I wouldn't erase all stupid people fucking out being stupid.
Does it make does it make you deserve to be?
Just I want to know how this is decided.
How do you? Jesus Christ.
I never said I'd kill them.
It's more like just make them smart.
OK. That changed.
That changed dramatically as soon as I commented on it.
Who wouldn't kill those women who got beheaded in Morocco?
No, I wouldn't kill them.
I would fix them. Wolf 20.
What happened if they went to Morocco?
And like, I don't I don't know what the context behind that situation is.
But I mean, if they went to Morocco and some certain part where
that is a thing that happens, I mean,
you brought up a lot of people.
That is a thing that happens. I mean,
you brought it on yourself.
I don't know what to tell you.
Don't go to.
Let's frame this as well. Here's a good example.
All right.
There's a reason why prank videos are funny, right?
So you see someone at home and then maybe like your spouse,
their spouse jumps out from around the corner like,
boo, ah, or maybe they pretend to dress up as a monster and scare somebody.
Right. And then the person has a reaction because they're terrified.
But and that's funny.
But one of the reasons that we find it funny is because we know that that
person isn't in any actual danger.
We know that it's just a joke.
We have information that, you know, the victim in this case doesn't have.
They're safe. They're not actually going to be murdered or stabbed or maimed
in any way. That's why somebody who's legitimately afraid for their life
from a real credible threat. That's why it's not funny.
Right. See the two circumstances there.
You know, it's kind of like a parallel here.
But it's that's not the same thing as someone that's like going online
being like, oh, this person like took a bath.
No, it's because someone in the car.
It's because someone said earlier that this was like, oh,
Rags is saying that he doesn't like to laugh at other people suffering.
But then he'll tell, you know, a Jew joke is like, well,
in that situation, telling a Jew joke doesn't actually hurt anybody.
It's just it's a harmless joke.
But someone getting herpes, that is an actual really bad thing that I that I.
So yeah, I agree with you. It's a terrible thing.
Yeah. But again, that's you're bringing that on yourself completely.
Yeah, I think so, too. Yeah, I think you're bringing a knowledgeable adult
that went online and knowingly bought bathwater that someone was in
and you get herpes from is like, OK.
Yeah, it's like, yeah, terrible that that happened.
But you did a really dumb thing.
And this is a consequence of doing that insanely stupid thing.
So it's purely a semantic distinction based on the usage of the term deserved.
I mean, I've observed if it's based on punishment slash rewards,
then there would be a moral system behind it.
And it's almost down to the person at that point.
Trying to tell me morality is subjective.
Me, for instance, it's like, for instance,
a soldier who is shot by another soldier on a battlefield
doesn't deserve to be shot, right?
But he is a soldier on a battlefield doing a job to perform a task.
It'll be a natural result of him going out there and doing that.
You see, it's a false equivalence.
A soldier is not the same as some retard buying bathwater.
No, no, no, I didn't. I didn't make that. I didn't make that connection.
We're talking about the nature of deserving things.
We're not going to talk about bathwater anymore.
And even then, that would still keep me consistent with how I view deserving.
Okay.
All right. So that's like an example of what I'm trying to say.
I have activated a straw poll. Chat were very adamant that they wanted to vote on this.
Vote on what?
Whether or not the person who bought that bathwater and drank it deserves to get herpes.
Oh, God. Chat agrees with what?
I win.
Oh, God.
It's got overwhelming support at this point.
That's kind of fucked up, but all right.
I think I get what Rags is saying.
Like, they're stupid.
Let's put this way.
All the people who drank that bath didn't get herpes.
Was justice not done to them?
Do they need to be given herpes so that justice is served?
I mean, if they got herpes, then it's already done.
Oh, it doesn't matter.
They drank the water.
All of those people committed the exact same action.
So they should be given the same punishment.
If they deserve herpes, then all the people who did not get herpes need to be given herpes
so that we have justice.
Don't you agree?
After that, they deserve it.
So you protest the term deserved in terms of like a comic sense behind it.
We all said it's not karma.
You know how you can sometimes see those videos on Reddit where it's like,
idiot tries to light birthday cake without realizing he sets his own head on fire
because he's got long hair and he does it at first.
And you get the video where he puts it out straight away after like screaming
and running around in circles.
It's like, that was funny.
But then the video where it lights the whole body on fire because they had someone on it.
And then they're just like screaming in agony and they burst through like a window of glass
and suddenly it goes from there to...
Oh.
And you might be like, yeah, they may have been stupid with what they did,
but they didn't deserve that.
Holy fuck.
I imagine that's the distinction here.
It's like there's a line to how much they should get as punishment.
And I guess it's whether or not you think herpes is sufficient for buying.
I don't know why someone would buy bathwater on a visit and drink it.
But maybe, I think maybe herpes is a bit harsh as a result.
But then the argument chattermaking right now is that if you're aware of the odds
and the repercussions of your action, then you deserve the results of it.
If you take that risk.
How could you even calculate the odds?
I guess the argument must be that you shouldn't be drinking someone's bathing water in the first place.
You shouldn't, yeah.
You should.
We're all in agreement.
That was plainly stupid.
Well, I guess that is a risk then, right?
That would be a risk.
That's a risk that you could tally.
So you should probably...
At what point do the odds make you worthy of deserving such a horrible punishment?
10%, 20, 30?
I guess so.
I just think they deserve whatever they get.
I don't think so.
What if they died, Wolf?
Would they deserve that?
What if someone broke into my house right now and shot me?
I wouldn't deserve that.
Even though it happened to me.
You didn't ask...
You didn't literally buy a robber.
You said people deserve what happens to them.
Well, you meant in reference to the...
It's not the same thing?
Well, I mean...
I still don't agree.
I was about to say, like, Wolf, do you think they deserve it if they die?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Shut up.
So if someone buys bathwater and drinks it and they get herpes,
how is that even remotely equivalent to some random dude breaking into your house and shooting you?
Because I said that in response to you saying people deserve what happens.
I was clearly speaking in this specific context.
No, apparently it wasn't very clear.
Well, I'm sorry that you didn't think about that.
You decided to come...
I just go by what you say.
No, I just... I went by what you said.
I mean, they're not looking for the robber to come and shoot them.
It's not the same thing.
People aren't looking to get herpes.
Well, they fucking bought the water a drink.
I would... Right.
It doesn't mean they're looking to get... They're not drinking it for the express purpose of trying to get herpes.
But, like, why would you advise against drinking someone's bathwater, though?
Because it's fucking disgusting.
Because it's extremely unhealthy.
Right.
Why?
Because it could have diseases in there.
There you go.
So that's the awareness they should be... That's what the argument I saw in chat, right?
Yeah, I've said this whole time what they're doing is incredibly stupid.
Yeah, so they're taking the risk.
Yeah, they're taking a risk.
Now, whether or not they know about the extent of this risk is up on each individual person.
I guess all I'm suggesting is that if you're aware of, like...
I don't know if the thing is, like...
I don't even know why she would actually bottle her bathwater instead of just putting clean water in there.
Because she knows that idiots will pay for it.
No, not that part.
I mean, like, literally...
Because a lot of people were saying, like, she'd probably just put tap water in there.
And I was like, that would make a lot more sense.
But, uh...
But then that would be false advertising.
Could they? Would they be able to tell?
Couldn't she just put a bit of perfume in there as well?
Either way, don't drink people's bathwater online.
Yes.
Don't drink your own bathwater.
Don't drink a stranger's bathwater.
I think that's good advice.
Yeah.
Yeah, I wouldn't recommend drinking your own either.
Yeah, deserved is a complex concept.
Because it's very based on morality from what I can discern.
And everyone has a different take on what people deserve, ultimately.
Unless you wanted to make a legal argument.
Like, what should they get?
And I don't think you can say someone should legally get herpes.
I don't know how that would work legally unless she, like, knew that she had herpes.
Oh yeah, I guess we could talk about what punishment she deserves.
Because in that case, then she deserved many years of jail time.
Huge trouble.
Yeah, because we could talk about that because what she did was, like, a moral action that put people in risk.
Also, I'm pretty sure they said in chat...
This is assuming, of course, that she even has herpes.
It's all bullshit, I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, I think it's bullshit.
Because if 50 people got herpes from it, it would be, like, a national scandal.
Yeah, I think we would have heard about it more.
This would be a huge deal.
Oh, veto as well.
One of the unfortunate victims.
I think he's not actually gonna drink it.
I don't know what he's gonna do.
There's no way. He's not that stupid.
Would you say if he did it, he would deserve whatever result he gets?
No, I don't think...
That's a bad moral actor who deserves that kind of punishment.
So anyway, I'm gonna go back to reading Te Superchatos.
So Matt's moved on to collecting blocks now, Wolf.
I'm sorry, someone said implying veto doesn't already have herpes.
Doesn't already what?
Have herpes.
Veto's never had sex.
Not with a woman, at least.
Are you saying guys are easy or fuck? Yeah, that's true.
The Wheel of Time?
No, no, The Dark Tower.
Oh, The Dark Tower.
Yeah, I heard that movie was terrible.
It's fucking horrible.
I don't know, actually.
Wolf just wanted to give you a huge thanks.
You are my ever present and ongoing inspiration to fight off the gay.
I'm glad to be your inspiration, I guess.
Was Clue the best movie based on a board game?
No, Battleship, obviously.
Oh, it's such a horrible movie.
Yeah.
You know, it's been dating a trans woman, as far as I know.
Really?
That's good for him.
I hope that it works out for the both of them.
I hope that they live a long and fruitful life.
Three of the herpes.
I'm saying there may be a shadow ban on these streams.
Last few haven't shown up in my recommended Stay Massive.
That might just be general YouTube issues.
Because sometimes, when I'm in the stream and I look for it, I can't find it.
And it takes a while for me to actually track it down and find it.
That might just be YouTube being YouTube.
Wolf, stop being a framerate elitist.
Why that now?
So, hold on.
Better.
I'm an elitist because I care about how well a game runs.
This is where Wolf and I are going to take a unified stance.
You and Wolf, you think me and Theo will be on board with this one too?
Running below 60 frames per second is fucking criminal.
Yes.
But hey, you know what?
Even if it's a 1 FPS, you could get used to it, right guys?
You could get used to it.
That's great.
It's great.
I love playing slideshows.
To clarify my anti-consumer question, who defines the interests of the customer?
Unless fraud is involved, it can be assumed a person making the purchase knows their own interest.
Still a fan, don't hate.
Yeah, I think this is an argument that also factors in what we were talking about earlier.
You know, deserve.
There is a moral aspect to it.
And there is our sense of justice in how we apply it to groups.
You know, in this case, consumers.
That's a very broad topic.
Well, yeah.
A good example would be that Jim Sterling would be like, aesthetic,
cosmetic microtransactions are terrible for the consumers overall,
while there's plenty of consumers would be like, no, it's not.
Yeah.
And there's short-term consequences, long-term consequences.
Generally, it's probably best to talk about specifics and specific cases.
But if you want to use generalizations, then things like false advertising are bad for the consumer.
Things that are not properly tagged or labeled are bad for the consumer.
Products that do not work are bad for the consumer.
Stuff like that.
You know, there could be there could be exceptions, of course, like with anything,
like if somebody maybe I buy a phone charger and it's so poorly designed that
if it works properly, it explodes, but it's made so poorly that it never even works.
Well, in that case, it's pro-consumer that it didn't work because it saves life.
But that's that's a strange example just to illustrate that exceptions exist.
Hey, Wolf, you like the comic Two Kinds?
I like the character.
Two Kinds.
I like the characters and the.
That's just it. That's the title.
And I like the progression of the artwork because looking at page one and comparing it to page one thousand,
whatever the fuck he's on now is fucking amazing.
But the plot is fucking nothing.
It's retarded.
It goes absolutely nowhere.
But characters and article battlefield like a superhero comic.
No, battlefield five is completely fictional stories in it, not just factually inaccurate.
Someone just completely made up.
Well, what they did was they like that.
They had one mission that was actually a mission that happened and was done.
But instead of the actual crack team of commandos who pulled off the mission,
they substituted it with a girl and her mother.
Yeah.
The girl blew up something huge and like a hard water factory that they were using to potentially create like nuclear weapons or something
really insulting to the people that actually did things.
Well, yeah, but we have to have it.
It has to be a woman.
Well, if it has to be a woman that I don't have to play the game.
Response to retail stores from last.
I work in a spoons and some of the stories that come out of spoons workers makes me lose faith in humanity.
Yeah.
You want to lose faith in humanity really fast work retail.
Yeah, service industry is stuff like that.
It's a bit of a mixed bag.
If you want to lose your faith in humanity real quick, we're going to gas station.
Worst job I've ever had.
What did you do at a gas station?
I was the clerk.
Oh, the clerk.
So I had to meet.
Well, horribly.
I wanted to kill people.
Oh, my goodness.
Should have watched your credits.
You would have been fine.
Unironically.
Yes.
Oh, no.
There are some horrible fucking people that go to gas stations, dude.
You ever.
Oh, my goodness.
Gas station.
Look at the people and they all look like they want to kill themselves.
There's a reason for it.
I just go there to get gas.
Sometimes maybe some munchies.
You didn't want to ask for this, but suddenly you're on a fab.
I just got this on Twitter.
I refuse to watch more streams.
Wolf is a grade A prick because you like a film.
You have down syndrome.
Thank you, Wolf.
You're a grade A prick.
You should have said such mean things.
Well.
Grade A prick.
You're like the last Jedi.
I'm sorry.
You have fucking down syndrome.
Wolf's a gap.
Wolf is a meanie poo.
Oh.
Got him.
Wolf is a fat.
Dude, you had.
Wolf is a fat.
He's growing.
With every pizza he eats, he grows rounder and rounder.
There's going to be a piece of favorite art where he's so big.
He just fills the room.
You could just see like a pour from rags and then like the end of a gas mask.
Like I'm crushing you too.
Does someone need to make a formal explanation?
Oh, wait.
I read that one out.
Lord of the Rings trilogy on audio is about 54 hours.
So you'd have to run it.
Like three at the same time in order to get it done in one day and listen to all
three.
You can, if you put, um, I put my audible books at a 1.25 speed and that's like
48 minutes for every hour.
So you take away 12 speed up by three times.
12 times 54 equals 648 divided by 60.
That takes away almost 11 hours.
Not enough.
Got to get it under 24 hours.
That is my fail.
I'm watching the MCU for the first time and I finished Avengers.
One of the movies that I can skip.
Also Thor is objectively horrible, but I love it.
Um, for the ones you can skip.
I don't even remember exactly which ones you can skip in terms of understanding
how the plot progresses, but I know that in the MCU, but there's a lot that I would
recommend skipping.
For example, I recommend skipping Captain Marvel and Black Panther.
You, but the thing is, if you skip Iron Man three, you skip out on, you know, the,
him doing the surgery at the end, which is kind of, I don't know.
I don't think it's that important.
A little bit, I don't know.
I think you can reasonably skip that one.
Let it, this is from Blessed South Pole.
Let it be known that I, Chad Paulsof Stockman, the Blessed South Pole, blesses
MCU MJ.
She's a good character in her own merit.
He's blessed to, I don't know if anyone can do this, anything about this now.
MJ in Homecoming, well, let's see, the next one is about MJ as well.
MJ in Homecoming annoyed me with what little screen time she had.
Her character lacked depth and being fleshed out.
MJ in Far From Home is great because she actually gets some character.
In short, Far From Home MJ is better than Homecoming MJ.
I agree with that.
I can't attest to the second one, but I would agree that she's a kind of nothing
character in the first movie.
Nothing annoying.
I don't think she's annoying.
I don't know.
I kind of cringed at that, like, I don't want to get art made by people that own
slaves or whatever that stupid line was.
She says you don't want to go into the monument, the Washington Monument,
because it was built by slaves.
Yeah, I mean, it's kind of crudgy.
She's like part of a character has been all protesty about the wrongs of America.
I don't know.
Still.
I mean, I can see how that might great.
Yeah, I think I can accept that one.
But I mean, the other like five scenes she has.
Well, I don't even remember the strong jokes scenes.
That's like literally the one thing I remember of her.
And I was like, Oh, I don't really like you.
I just remember her being there kind of weird, kind of entertaining.
Yeah, I think I think that, yeah, I think it's fair enough to not like it for that line.
But I didn't really take that line that seriously myself.
Because you have the the teachers like, oh, I think this is the case.
And then the other guy who's standing outside, it makes like a 50 50 sort of sign.
And I looked at an article about it, apparently, and I think rags about this as well.
The running idea is the slavery was active in the area when the monument was built.
But it would have required high skill stonemasons and like pulleys and stuff.
Yeah, I doubt that they got a bunch of slaves to create that building.
You'd probably need very skilled, you know, like Mason workers and because the Washington monument,
as far as I'm aware, is the world's tallest freestanding stone structure
that doesn't have a steel reinforcement on the inside.
I'll double check that, but it's something like that.
So it's an impressive piece of architecture.
You'll actually notice that it's multicolored because about a third of the way up when they began,
I think the war of I want to say because construction was halted because of a war.
And then they finished it later, which is why if you go to the monument, the bottom third is like white.
And then the rest of it is a little slightly darker tone of gray.
What I read in the thing, though, they had like an addendum to the article and it was like there were several,
like it wasn't uncommon for slave workers to be familiar in trades like that at that time.
Potentially, yeah.
And so the conclusion was, it's possible. We don't know.
No, it's possible.
We can't prove it.
Yeah, it's possible.
But I think asserting it as a fact without knowing.
I mean, we'll see the film saying it's a possibility. We don't know.
The film has her say it was it has the teacher say it wasn't.
And then it has a guy say 50 50.
It's like, well, but I actually think it's unnecessary completely.
Like, yeah, I don't get that. It's it's a weird line.
Yeah.
But I actually like the rest of her involvement in the film.
Not that it's a lot.
But it's a lot. But again, I think that would be it's weird how much focus there is on her as opposed to everything else in Homecoming.
A lot of the conversations focus around here.
Hmm. It's interesting. Yeah.
And she's such a minor character that it's very interesting, this focus on her when she has such little screen time and so few lines of dialogue.
It's really disproportionate. It is.
Far From Home changed me, made me want to buy more suits.
Fair enough. More more what?
Suits.
Ah, suits.
Spoilers. My issue with Hill House was the house slash ghosts were evil whenever the show wanted scares,
but we're a font of immortality with no significant drawbacks and all the two of the ghosts are super chill.
Yeah, one of my issues with the Hill House is what I would probably call the world building, how the ghosts work, how the house works.
Episode 10 kind of throws all of it up in the air a little bit.
But kind of wish that the second season would be like an origin story for it.
Yeah, because they could actually fix a lot.
Not that that's what you should be doing, just that they could.
Plus, there is like some intrigue in the last episode when that one ghost I don't remember what her name was started like rhyming about like the history of the house.
And it was kind of vague, but pretty interesting.
Yeah, and their family, it feels like there's a potential long, interesting story for that previous family.
I wouldn't want a sequel to that family, but I would want like a prequel to explain the house some more.
No, I'm referring to the prequel family.
Yeah, I know.
What do you mean sequel to that family? I don't have anything for that family.
No, no, I meant the Hill House family and like the general ones.
Yeah, no, I wouldn't need a sequel for them. This story is fine.
Yeah, fair enough. I found both MCU Spider-Man movies to be good, well-made films.
I don't enjoy them nearly as much as the other visions of Spider-Man because they replaced primary motivation for his character with Iron Man.
I don't know. It's just different.
It is different.
Rask. Still doing a brown table response with it?
Yeah.
Rask.
Yeah, that's how they spelt it.
Yeah, I assume they were talking about me because fuck it.
Wasn't Extra Credits the same massive that did videos on why microtransactions are a good thing in games?
Was that the one where they would advocate for more expensive games?
We were possibly going to check that out, but as you can tell, everything has come along.
I don't know if that was part of the...
Yeah, because they made a video that was pretty half and half last year.
Games should not cost $60 anymore. Inflation, microtransactions, and publishing.
And it's $19k up, $17k down. So that was very poorly received.
The arguments for it are pretty shit.
Yeah, it's essentially... The arguments of the video are basically that it's the duty of the consumer to support the video game industry.
And that if you're not buying games, then you're basically you're, I guess, being irresponsible with your...
I guess with the charge that you have as a game.
If all the games I wanted to play weren't coming out in 2020, I would buy more games.
I don't like Homecoming. I haven't thought critically why. The only thing I liked about it was Michael Keaton's acting.
And I guess what I'm trying to say is I hope Rags finds his Don one day, sliced and diced.
Ah, maybe. You never know.
I don't know if I'll ever find someone as good as Don.
Don is the face behind the Master Chief's helmet.
Also, what is the collective opinion on Full Metal Jacket?
I like that a lot. I prefer the fist.
You haven't seen it, really? No, I haven't.
I would think that'd be a movie right up your alley.
Yeah.
Right up my what? Alley?
Alley.
Yeah, I love Full Metal Jacket's fist. I want to say half.
I think it's... I don't know if it's that long, but I prefer the fist after the second half.
The sort of boot camp versus the actual war sort of thing.
But I still love it as a whole.
It's been a while since I've seen it, but I remember really loving it.
Mauler watching Peter Parker turns completely irresponsible and selfish.
Slicent dice, baby. Mauler watching Luke turns grumpy old man.
No.
So, is the criticism there that Peter Parker shouldn't be irresponsible?
Would that be out of character?
I was going to say, I don't think that applies to literally Luke being completely unrecognizable.
Character versus Peter being someone that you think should be doing X based on source material.
Adaptation is not the same continuity.
No, it's not.
I watched Captain Marvel twice, but still objectify my girlfriend.
Damn.
Yeah, both of them.
Love Mauler Wolf's rags content.
Keep up the great work and long live the eFap channel.
Totally love you guys' Game of Thrones Season 8 reactions as well.
Oh, there's more on the way.
Oh God.
It cometh.
Feet are just weird noses.
Yeah.
I mean, I think we kind of proved that in our discussion about it.
Feet are just weird.
I'd say feet are just weird noises.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Hands are just weird feet.
It's just vicious.
What do you guys know of Yahtzee Croshaw's game dev diary?
And I think he's doing it way better at teaching about games development compared to Mark Brown.
I've not seen it, but yeah, I would hope it's better than Mark Brown.
Mark Brown teaches you that enemies shoot things at you in Cuphead and that.
Yeah, what Mark Brown tells you is just like shit that you've absorbed that goes without saying.
He's just saying it out loud in words and you agree with it because it's stuff you already know,
which gives the illusion that he's a really smart guy.
It's like I said to Wolf earlier.
I said to someone earlier.
I think it was Wolf.
I can't remember.
In fact, I don't remember if this was today or yesterday or if it was on stream or not,
because my life's a blur right now.
But I was saying, basically, if you're making a game, you don't really need to.
I mean, if you've played games your whole life or if you've played games for years,
you know what works and what doesn't in your head.
It's the execution of that.
That might be the issue.
But you know in your head the things that work and the things that don't.
What is good design and what isn't good design and what's fun and what isn't fun.
So you don't have to put too much effort, I don't think, in these extra credit types
who just tell you things you already know.
Because a lot of these problems would be self-evident once they happen.
I feel like you can find out more interesting things about games
from just finding good channels that talk about games and like criticize them.
Yeah, and just playing them, you'll absorb all that stuff.
Yeah.
Like when you play a game and it's really crappy, you'll know why.
And then the next one is that Gilbert and just says me and Rags disagree on a few things.
All right.
That's all right.
That's all right.
I have to watch Monday and Matt with a boulder of salt.
Yes.
Boulder of salt.
I find their argument funny because Cod Willed at War exists.
I'm assuming that's in reference to good old extra credits.
There was an entire campaign where it was Russians versus...
You were on the Eastern Front.
So you were the Russian person pushing into Germany.
I was telling Mahler and Fringing about it earlier,
but there's that scene toward the end of the game
where you kill all these surrendering Nazis.
Like it's a kind of brutal scene.
Something that they would never do in today's Call of Duty games.
You can't show the Russians as being bad.
I mean, they don't even show the swastika anymore in Treyarch games.
They're the ones that made World at War.
It's not like the Eastern Front was fucking brutal.
It's pathetic, man.
You won't even put swastika.
Jesus.
Mahler, which is coming first?
TFA Critique Part 3 or Game of Thrones Episode 5 on Bridal Rage?
Episode 5 on Bridal Rage.
That is definitely coming first and it's really on the way.
It's just taking a long time because it's long and big and long.
You know, long.
Here's my obligatory Theo Shill mono-guitary to these Massives,
but he's not going to do it because he's a Massive.
He knows who sent this.
You're correct. I'm not going to do it.
I'm not going to do it.
The same people say that all Germans were responsible for Nazis,
but not all Japanese were responsible for a war that got themselves nuked.
Hippo-Chroticle.
I like that word, Hippo-Chroticle.
Then there's something that happened at Nanking.
Is Nanking a place that I'm unaware of?
Oh, yeah.
The Japanese did 31 of things?
Bad shit at Nanking.
You know.
CP.
Yeah.
CB Gaming Witcher 3 vid.
Please talk to Brood.
37.
CP Gaming.
Clean Prince Gaming.
Oh.
I'm guessing you did a Witcher 3 vid.
It's less funny, Glenn.
Well, he probably has a Witcher 3 video singing his praises.
Oh, CP?
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, yeah, we still haven't covered him, sad face.
Valkyria Chronicles is a fantasy RPG based on World War II.
I played the fourth game in the series.
It's really good.
I would recommend it.
Did you become a Nazi?
We have to confirm this shit before we can just play games, Jesus.
But I have not played it.
Have you guys heard of Valkyria Chronicles?
I have.
Have you played it?
Heard of it.
Talk to David Duke guest appearance when...
I played Death Call of Krieg, so I guess I'm a clone that wears a gas mask and is a part of a cult of sacrifice willing to die for the Emperor.
Obviously.
I don't even see one.
Did you send that in for us to confirm?
This is just easy.
Easy.
Here's one, Rags.
When an OSHA infraction is the same as saying not safe for work.
Say that one more time.
Here's one, Rags.
When an OSHA infraction is the same as saying not safe for work.
That's fair enough.
Yeah, I think that's fair enough.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Would any of you tisms go on the official podcast?
Yeah, I don't see why not.
That's the one that Critical runs, right?
Releases a part of?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
There you go.
We all agree.
Why not?
Yeah, why not?
We didn't mean to spend...
Yeah, I'd go on that.
We didn't mean to spend three hours on a five-minute video.
At this point, that quote should just be on the eFAB title screen.
I mean, what if we beat that record by far?
If that were equaled by far, then we'd have to swap it again.
Didn't expect to spend three hours on a five-minute video.
Also, massive equals big gay.
Yes.
That is the obvious definition, outside of all the other definitions.
Why does the Roman alphabet contain 26 letters, where Latin only contain 21?
Aliens?
No.
Doubles up on some letters.
More is better?
Say that one more time.
Why does the Roman alphabet contain 26 letters, when Latin only contained 21 letters?
Let me see.
Because Latin sucks.
No, because...
The Romans were more massive.
You and V.
There's a Latin...
You wouldn't have...
There's no W's in Latin.
You would pronounce V's as W's.
There was no...
Because I can't...
This is all off the top of my head.
So, like, Volvo is actually pronounced Walwoe.
Things like that.
By the way, Volvo is Latin for eye roll.
It was a fun little thing.
I'm not sure which individual ones, but you know as languages change, they morph some together,
or they become their own sound, or new sounds are created by combining letters like S and H,
T and H, and stuff like that.
I don't know.
It depends.
I would have no idea.
I think that the alphabet used to have like 32 letters.
And then we dropped a bunch.
Stranger Things season 3's writing was very sloppy and pace was rushed.
I mean, I thought it was terrible.
EC is censoring the top comments.
PS, social blade.
Yeah, actor credits have lost something like 18k subs, I think someone was saying.
Hi, 17k's.
And apparently they've been deleted some top comments.
But I never quite trust that because YouTube's of a tismy with them.
There's a lot of comments that are still critical of them, though, so they didn't get rid of all of them.
Yeah, they've lost about 20,000 subs the last five days.
20,000 bigots gone.
Mission accomplished.
Yeah.
What's odd, though, is that the disparaging, the disparagement and the numbers between the days.
So in the first day, they lost 4,200, then 6,300, but only 1,900 the next day.
But then after that, 3,000.
And today, which isn't even done, they've lost 4,500.
So it's kind of all over the place.
I'm wondering, does that mean it's partially influenced by coverage from all the people responding?
Maybe.
Very possibly.
Very possibly.
What's interesting, too, is that this puts their channel in the red for this month in terms of subs.
Usually for a channel that size isn't quite, you know, usually for a channel that has like 2.1 million subscribers,
they can take a loss like that, but still be positive for the month.
Right.
But they're in the whole 1,600 right now for the month.
You know, like I said, people from what I was gathering, people think that it's changed since they changed over the voiceover guy
from the high pitch dude to the other dude.
And there's things going on in the background.
So it might be that it's just not the same content.
The thing is, I never liked the old voice.
I thought it was really just tough to listen to.
But the new voice, I don't like that one either.
It's very condescending.
It's very, yeah, it's very condescending and robust, I guess, maybe.
And suddenly you're a Nazi.
And suddenly you're a Nazi.
Okay.
Chill out, mate.
Our first live eFap.
Love you guys.
Thank you so much.
Oh, wow.
Neat.
Yeah.
The National Association of Zionist Israelites.
Nazi.
I got some overtime this week.
So $5 for rags since I found his channel first.
Love what you guys do.
Enjoy your Sunday rags.
He didn't respond.
I shall enjoy my Sunday immensely.
And also, yeah, people have been saying I'm a character of Aukeria Chronicles 4.
I have seen that.
I like it too, because I like to play healing based characters and he is a medic doggo.
All the better.
Oh, I've seen that.
I've seen that.
It was on Twitter where it just looks exactly like you.
Hooray.
And I think he's something else.
I'm at the live show.
JJ Abrams should reboot history and save it.
You would just copy.
Yes.
You would just copy Game of Thrones' history and fuck it all up with a bad copy.
Just start writing it again.
Rags.
Get rid of all the current books.
Rags' opinion on playing as Nazis might be a tad biased.
Oh, definitely.
Very influenced by his history as being a Nazi.
Oh, yeah, that's very true.
I just I'm just trying to stick up for Meinbruthers.
I don't actually know what the German word for brother is.
German.
Monfre.
Bruder.
Yes.
Meinbruther.
Meintoxicbrude.
Meinbrude.
Let's see.
Meintoxicbrude.
Meintoxicbrude.
Meintgiftigbrude.
Meintgiftigbrude.
I'm probably.
He's a crypto-brude lord.
Crypto-brude lord.
That's a that's like a boss.
It's like a level 60 boss.
You have to kill the crypto-brude lord to get the gold level item.
Watch flyboys for historical accuracy.
It can't be accurate.
So no.
Should have unicorns in it.
Guy going into history here.
Can you confirm that I've already been turned into a gnat sock.
Also, Rags and Wolf just released the sex table ready.
Do I have to come over there and oh God.
He said something else there.
What did he say?
What did he say?
He offered to give you both the sock.
Oh, well, I mean, if you do that, then we might expedite it.
Well, let's be let's be clear here.
He said.
If I if we need to release the sex tape or he'll have to come over here and suck us both off.
Only if only if often I get to kiss while he does it.
I think that's a pretty fair trade.
The only way of stars to be somewhat redeemed is for Kylo to do a 720 sheave spin.
What we need to do is give Star Wars TROSW a 10 out of 10.
I mean, yeah.
I would sell tickets.
The sheave spin is hard to master.
Sings penis to the SMB one two theme.
All right.
Rags, have you ever heard of a root word?
Root word.
Sorry, not reward.
Root word.
Yes.
Wait, are we going to go into why a lot of what I said have very clear and logical explanations and it totally wasn't just a joke for the moment.
I don't even know what you're referencing.
Yes.
I know.
I know about root word.
He knows about root words.
I don't like that.
Like that.
A.
What was it?
A.
In the B.
Yes.
The A trade like a trade is good.
B trade.
Obviously, I know those are different words.
I was just I was doing the sillies for the eFap stream on the Internet, which you could tune into now on.
Take this very seriously.
I don't think there's ever been a joke on eFap.
EFAP is a joke.
The meme section is an account of the history of eFap, which is watching clips from recordings live.
We get up to a lot of stuff off of podcasts.
We run around and lots of environments close to getting killed.
It's very interesting.
Glad I was finally around for an entire live eFap.
A lot of the super chats are about how people are catching this eFap.
It's weird.
I guess this one was caught a lot by people.
Well, it's Sunday.
So maybe everyone's kind of like hanging around on Sunday.
Maybe the weather is bad.
And so everyone's staying inside.
That makes sense.
Catching up on the eFap.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey man.
There's no sausage raider, put sausage raider up on the screen, so.
Right. Yeah.
Give me a sec.
I'll have to find it.
Oh my God.
After cycle of so far.
Also.
Wolf rags.
We have a deal.
Can I cuddle with you afterwards too, though?
Oh no, about that.
Three is kind ofiership, buddy.
No, no.
Not all crowds are bad.
Not all crowds are bad unless you're fat.
Oh, no.
Maybe, maybe people warm us up.
There you go. Yeah, it all works out.
Oh, I work out.
Hey, Wolf, do you work out after all your pizzas?
I do. Do you take your pizzas and roll them up and down hills?
And then when you get back, you can put it in the oven and cook it and eat it.
No, actually, actually, this week I started doing the paleo diet.
So it's been working.
Did they have?
Did they have pizzas back in the back in the day, back?
Surprisingly enough, no, they didn't.
Oh, OK. All right.
I didn't know. So you can eat pizzas with the paleo diet?
No. Oh, OK.
So what you're saying is you're you're shitty at diets.
What I'm saying is I haven't ate any pizza this week.
Bullshit.
And you prove me wrong.
I don't believe prove you right.
You prove you right.
You how am I supposed to prove that I haven't?
How am I supposed to prove that I did a thing that I didn't do all samples?
Oh, no. Stu what?
You want me to collect my own shit and say, you know, how much shit
we have to go through here on EFAP?
Yeah, I was going to say, it's going pretty good.
No. Yeah, this is more pleasant than some of the crap.
Chunky or smooth peanut butter?
Smooth. Thanks. Huh?
Oh, smooth. All right. Smooth.
I don't want the last thing I need.
Well, when I'm when I've got peanut butter over what I'm eating
is to get like little bits and I just don't know.
I love peanuts, but I don't want like the peanut bits
in the smooth peanut butter. I agree with that.
I'll see. I hope you enjoyed sausage raider.
And it was beautiful.
And yeah, I like both.
I don't really mind either.
My I was going to say it was both.
Maybe that's a British versus American thing.
Who knows my diabolical plan to make Wolf too fat
to escape EFAP early is going according to plan.
Brings more pallets of pizza.
The proof Wolf has eaten pizza this week.
They went as broad as spit roast adds to to do list.
Oh, Lord. Oh, God. Oh, it's all over.
I'm actually autistic.
I know you're shocked looking at my PFP, so I have my authority
to give all of you to some pass and add it to your R
and A word passes. Nice.
Autistic, you know, it's like it's like, oh,
but that could be used in some way, shape or form for some memes.
I don't know.
Theo sounds like Sean and Jen.
This is Sean.
You don't want to know. You don't know who Sean is.
No, the most I don't know who Sean is.
The most artistic of the SJW is he's like one of the dumbest
human beings alive.
Is he that weird guy with the skull avatar?
Yeah. Yeah.
You should say, hello, everyone.
Hello, Jen is like retarded girlfriend or what it's actually too bad,
honestly. Oh, no.
Right now, I know and bark, massive sausage, rhino milk.
It's a mystery.
Do you prefer the first two rainy films or MCU Spidey?
Um, I adore Spider-Man 2
and I adore Homecoming.
I'm not sure which I think is the yeah, that's tough to pick between those two.
But I think they're both the first time they've been asked of us either. No.
I think we discussed on the rainy stream that we did way back when.
It's a tough, tough call on.
I have an affinity for Homecoming because Tony Stark's in it.
And I love Tony Stark.
Yeah, I'm not even sure what I picked for a personal preference.
I'm really not sure I'd have to watch them both back to back
and then really think about it.
They're both amazing.
Listen, at least Vito lives up to his title as professional idiot.
All right, I guess his writing is consistent.
Man, he sticks to his guns. Yes.
Also, rags game suggestion for Zelda for Switch Zelda, Breath of the Wild,
Mario Kart, and if you like, JRPG's Xenoblade Chronicles,
to Final Fantasy 12 and Octopath Traveler.
A lot of I can attest that Zelda is fucking awesome.
I've been playing shit out of it.
No Bayonetta 2 on that list. No.
I heard a lot of bad about Bayonetta 2.
It's not as good as one, from what I understand,
but it's still a Bayonetta game, so I hear it's pretty good.
Every time Wolf and Rags get into a fight, I am happy.
And Wolf, you are wrong. You're massive.
It's true, Wolf is wrong.
Well, the audience, 68% of the audience says I'm right.
Wolf is correct.
I'm sorry, but I believe that's a logical fallacy called the appeal.
Well, you know, well, wait, but Wolf didn't say that he is right
because that he just said, oh, well, that amount of the audience agrees with me.
No, he just took he simply took comfort.
We know what he knows.
Yeah, Wolf is correct.
I, the Mexican Dawn, decree it.
And the name of the profile is the Mexican Dawn.
Discount Dawn. What? Name is Eldon.
Eldon. Eldon.
And now I'm picturing that he will put it over the beams
and he just has like a sombrero.
A sombrero. Yeah.
I am. They call me Senior Dawn.
They can have Dawn and Dawn meet and Dawn can be like, who are you?
And he'd be like, I am done.
But I understand you're the Dawn from north of the Rio Grande.
Rhino bathwater greater than Belle Delphine's bathwater, obviously.
Not really a competition, is it?
Rhino's don't give you the name of the chick, Belle Delphine, apparently.
OK, because I because I don't actually I know the story about the bathwater.
I just don't know who it is.
I just said internet thought.
She looks like a trap.
Yeah, I don't drive.
You could say that they earn it rather than deserve it.
Oh, not this again.
Rags. Oh, Ernest.
I don't know. I think that's interesting.
You know, earn and deserve.
I mean, are they interchangeable?
That's interesting. I have to think about that.
Rags bought Delphine's water, but it's too much of a cow to justify it
and doesn't want to admit he deserves the hippies he got from it.
Wow, I didn't know that was the case.
Do we add the bathwater hippies question to the list of things to ask
now, along with the episode nine adoption question.
Pathwater hippie.
I'd snap all my fingers and erase all the stupid people.
Wolf and movie Bob.
Yeah. Hey, I clarified by saying I wouldn't kill them all.
Yeah, you'd fix them all.
Smart. Yeah, I would.
Are you saying it's bad?
I'm suggesting that you're thinking this person would choose to vote.
Oh, this will do this.
This is like I will make them correct and I want them to do the correct thing.
No, no, no, no, that's not what I meant.
You mean you'll raise their IQ?
What are we talking about here?
Yeah, I mean, like just make them more intelligent.
I don't mean like make them think a certain way.
Hmm. I don't think we can trust these guys.
It sounds like a eugenicist to me.
Movie Bob, maybe eugenics were not that bad.
Oh, Zach actually wants a legitimate answer to the question of do we add the
powerful hippies question?
You're embarrassing.
It'll be to ask people like who are brand new to the stream.
Do they think someone deserves but water hippies from drinking it?
Think we should ask that question.
That's horrible.
I think that would turn people away from our show pretty quickly.
And yet there will be people in chat saying it, whatever.
We have a guest now.
We'll just be like, just ignore that.
Let's just talk about one minute.
You're on Team Wolf and suddenly a Thanos.
Yep.
I love you guys.
Here's a bit extra money from build five K dollar PC build.
Frack you. That's why I'll sit on rags and wolf slap given the opportunity.
Yay.
Or you could just lay across both of it, both of it.
Are you are you to an item?
I corrected and said ours.
I mean, we can be an item of rags once.
An aggressive family friend looked for a fight the other day
and got shot and killed for his trouble.
Did he deserve to die or did he have it coming?
Wait, what?
An aggressive family friend looked for a fight the other day
and got shot and killed for his trouble.
Did he deserve to die or did he have it coming?
He looked for a fight as in like he was instigating it, I guess.
I mean, if someone had like reasonable suspicion to please him,
we probably need more context trying to fight him than well.
Like, I mean, just like, yeah, I want more context for this.
But for example, if you swing at someone and miss, like you go to punch them
and you miss and then they pull out a shotgun and blow your head off.
I'd be like, whoa, I need to know.
Like, does he have a weapon?
Like is trying is like actually trying to fight someone?
Because that's going to alter my answer.
But I mean, if someone came at me like welcome to like punch me in the face
and like, I don't know, beat the shit out of me or whatever, it's like,
I don't know if I have a gun and I have reasonable suspicion
to believe he's going to try and enact physical harm upon me.
He's kind of asking for it.
If you shot someone under that, and then you would be found guilty of murder
if that was your reason.
Really? Yeah.
Reasonable suspicion.
That's not going to cut it for shooting somebody.
How do cops get away with it, though?
You're not the cops.
Now, reasonable suspicion, I guess, I would different now.
You would have no reasonable suspicion.
You need that if they wouldn't like check your car.
Like if they smell weed, then they have reasonable suspicion
to believe there's weed in the car and then can search it.
Well, I understand that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that would be a difference there.
But if somebody but if you have like a gun like you're carrying concealed
and you tell a courtroom, I had I felt that I had reasonable suspicion.
But I mean, if someone's coming at me with like a knife or something.
Yeah, and a lot of cases that would absolutely be just you bet.
Then, yeah, that I mean, like in that case, absolutely.
It depends that I should have worded that differently.
But I mean, like, yeah, I mean, like if someone was coming at me
with the intent to kill and I knew beyond a shadow of a doubt,
that was what was going to happen.
Like, would that legally?
Yeah, for the most part, yes, for the most part, yes.
Panama state and stuff like that.
Yeah, but there's but this is where it gets really, really weird.
Because if you're in a state where you don't have a stay on your ground law
or a duty to retreat law, like we have. Oh, yes, that's true.
Because it stands different laws on this.
And what? Let's take it.
Let's take this example.
Let's say
you have somebody coming at you with the intent to kill,
but they were in a wheelchair, right?
Well, then, well, I mean, if they had a shotgun or something.
Well, oh, yeah, it was a knife.
That's just how interesting it gets.
You know, that's how crazy intricate the whole thing can be.
That's why, you know, it's a serious, serious business.
Yeah. And the guys, the guy clarified friend had no weapon.
Friend had no weapon, but beat the man to a pulp friend
was the one who instigated.
So if you beat up a person to a pulp and then I guess got shot and killed.
Yes, you can. Yeah.
That sounds pretty justified to me.
Yeah. I mean, that's what essentially the grounds was for the Trayvon Martin case.
Because if you beat someone up enough,
then you can absolutely be shot dead in self-defense
because depending on how you use your fists, that's absolutely
potentially a deadly weapon.
From Chip Chipley, 70 percent of the voters are wrong.
Rags, if the ball says don't drink and they drink anyway,
do they not deserve whatever ailments they get, temporary or permanent?
If the what?
So if a ball says don't drink and they drink it anyway,
do they not deserve whatever ailments they get, temporary or permanent?
Depends. Depends on the ailment, I think.
For instance, if you have a if there's a door that says employees only,
but you open it and there's a guy on the other side who shoots you dead,
you know, like obviously they don't deserve to get shot. Right.
So it's a matter of it's a matter of the extremity, not extremity, the
it's on the spectrum, right, of whatever the whatever the the consequences
because to a degree, sure.
You know, like if if you walk through that,
if you open that door that says employees only, pulling on the side that says,
hey, asshole, you're not supposed to be back here.
Then, you know, you probably deserve that.
Right. So it's on it's on a scale.
It's on a spectrum of what the consequences are.
And that's and here's the thing.
That's why it's such a this is why it's a complicated discussion that we've been
having essentially the beginning of mankind.
You know, what do people deserve to have happen to them for the actions they commit?
You know, how do we figure out what the best justice is?
Yeah, like a complicated subject.
Once people would find easier, for example, would be like a guy like, I don't know,
tries to poison some water to kill some people and he ends up drinking it
because he's, I don't know, idiotically chosen the wrong couple, some shit like that.
And it's like, well, you reap what you sow.
You kind of deserve that sort of thing.
Yeah, it's it's a complicated.
It's very, very complicated.
And there's not one real I don't think there's really a set,
a standard set of rules that you can apply.
Yes, it's a tough, interesting, long term conversation.
And when morality comes into it, that's when you know it's going to be
a long man conversation.
I mean, let's put it this way.
Let's say you let's say you are a monk
in the medieval ages and you spend your you dedicate your life
to helping to ease the suffering of people who have leprosy.
Do you deserve to die of leprosy?
Well, you know, it's different than in it.
It just all it's all about what the scenario is, what what the situation is.
A fascinating composition. Interesting. Yeah.
Let's get our gamble freak on.
No time for just right.
But can we straw pull and debate herpes water for half an hour?
No, our base water.
Don't drink herpes water.
Oh, they said like no time for just right.
But we can straw pull to be happy for half an hour.
Sad face. Yeah.
Well, this is the thing.
Just right deserves his own episode. He'll get it.
It deserves his own episode.
Mm hmm.
Well, he's burned his own episode.
I would say that.
Yeah, I'd say he brought his own.
So when is the next episode anyway?
I guess we'll figure that out when the next Sunday, a whole week
before we get to just right.
That sounds just wrong.
That would just be the Spider-Man one.
So it'd probably be two more weeks.
Oh, yeah. Well, we will be talking about far from home, but we might be.
It depends on what what guests are looking like.
The thing is, yeah, we're going to have to delay the just right one.
Otherwise, we'll have to have the one again.
That's the same guest twice in a row.
Who would want to see that?
Well, we could have a fifth.
I guess we could. Yeah.
Yeah, we could have a fifth.
I'm trying to I'm trying to stop myself from saying fifth in saying fifth fifth fifth.
I mean, I'm not very talkative, so I kind of like half a person.
Jesus Christ, would you stop talking for five seconds?
Calm the fuck down.
Theo, wouldn't you just shut the fuck up?
Shut the front door and the back door.
It is. And the back door.
No, my back door is always why do you bring this fucking massive faggot on here?
All he ever does is don't say that about Mahler.
I know, man, like, well, she makes the memes come up on the screen.
We'll just say, I get the memes.
He makes the beams pop up on the magic box.
What have I done?
More, you should make a notify dot me account
so people can always know when you upload instead of relying on the YouTube algorithm
still in beta launching soon.
I mean, hell, if a bunch of people start adopting it, it's really useful. Sure.
Well, for you saying rags is his dad has Down syndrome.
Oh, yeah, because he likes the last day.
No, I think that he's just one of those.
He's very much one of those turn your brain off when you go to movies.
OK, kind of got everyone kind of let you in a little secret.
Got I'm being hyperbolic.
You're not supposed to take me fucking seriously.
No, you just sound like a lawyer bending the rules.
OK, you're not.
You're totally serious right up until someone asks you if you are. OK. Yeah.
That's how I determine whether whether I've been too serious or not
is when the first person asks, are you serious? Oh, no.
Wolf, you're not listening to audiobooks, right?
Unless you listen at three point five speed.
Get on my level. Oh, good lord.
You're I mean, yeah, that's pretty fast.
OK, your take on EC's vid was pretty good.
Thank you. It boggles my mind.
He doesn't know what I crosses are.
He sees a series about Otto von Bismarck and German unification
from two years ago is amazing.
Well. I'm afraid the times have changed.
I heard you didn't know EC's content at all, so I can really recommend
the both Bismarck series from two years ago, one about Otto
and the other about battleship is marks with a watch.
This thing, I'm sure there is good content on on extra credits
as channel as a whole, and it's a shame.
They do history stuff as well.
Apparently, which is like, wow, you know,
you guys do history, huh?
And you said all of that, OK?
Stop normalizing Bismarck.
Yeah, doesn't that make them Nazis?
Kind of. They've ever kind of put the iron cross on screen on that video.
So, yep.
I promised that after endgame, I was done with the MCU.
If Black Panther and Captain Marvel are indicative of future quality,
I think I'm better off.
Indicative.
Well, we know we may see, you know, better things or worse things.
You never quite know with this.
Wonderful adventure.
A rule is just a weird law.
Bilbarian, Bogodumble, Bongo, Dumble, Bongo, Dumble.
Bongo, Dumble, Levee, Baggins.
Bilbarian, Bongo, Dumble.
Yeah. Bongo, Dumble, Bongo, Dumble.
I like Bongo, Dumble.
I'll put that word in the Duke of Delve.
I like it. It's very unique.
Bongo, Dumble.
Bilbarian, Bongo, Dumble.
It sounds like an actual character.
I have a hard time accepting that post-Civil War Tony Stark
would want to leave the keys to an arsenal of WNDs to a horny teenager.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I think that we were supposed to accept the element that he gave it to Peter
for Peter to decide how it would be used or who would be able to use it.
The fact that it is the protocol on there to allow him to, you know, gift things.
It's not. It had to be.
I thought it had to be.
We talk about the training wheels thing.
Actually, well, technically, it's in the new film,
so I may as well just we'll have to wait till next week once they've seen it.
All right. Yeah, I haven't seen a new one.
If it's a new one, then I thought Rask would get triggered
by me writing me and Rags instead of Rags and I. Hi, Rags.
Hello, hi.
No, I just I just got I got out of my system.
You just got to let listen, man.
Sometimes you just got to let it go.
You just got to go with the flow.
You know, you got it.
You have to be like you have to be like water.
You got to curve with the bend and go with your flow.
No, more than knows how to get me excited big and long.
Mm hmm.
You know, I'm disappointed by your lack of references to Nietzsche.
Oh, that's an injoke kind of from the Discord server.
Why do you guys hang on that server is so lame.
It's my job now.
Hey, Wolf, I don't even get paid for it.
I know it's it's practically slave it isms slaves with jobs.
Slaves and Terry slave it isms.
Hey, Wolf, is Oi the number one doggo?
Who? I don't know.
Oh, why Oi?
Oi. Oh, Oi from Dark Tower.
Yes. Wow.
You want to you want to run that by me again?
Wow. OK, well, he's the best fictional doggo.
Yeah. Wolf Rags, we have a deal.
Can I cuddle with you afterwards, too, though?
Yeah, probably.
We have to pay extra for that with all that depends on how much you weigh.
Oh, what if we could cuddle with him?
He might be like a big beanbag and we could just.
Yeah, but if I have to like sink into his fat folds.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
We got a we got a limit here.
Hey, maybe that's comfy.
Yeah. And no, no, no, it isn't because it gets all sweaty.
And I don't want to taste like the skin crust.
If he's like one of those people at my six hundred pound life.
Oh, no, no skin crust, please.
Yeah, let's get back to you when we know your weight.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Was going to use today's Super Chat money to buy a farm for all my n words,
but you guys could probably put the money to better use like pizza farm
for all my n words, Christ, a cotton farm for all my
like pizza and bathwater diseases, which you would absolutely deserve rags.
This will go on.
They said they they decided to they prefer to spend the money on pizza
and bathwater diseases, which you would absolutely deserve.
All right, then you have to do it for no reason.
I guess I accept this challenge in relation to the cuddling,
I suppose. Hashtag pizza gate.
Wolf would said no skin crust, just thin crust.
Say no to skin.
They yes to thin crust.
Indeed. Wolf X rags spit roast ads.
Oh, yeah, you read that one out.
I mean, you know, it's that thing.
I get tuckered out to other people.
I mean.
Uh, you guys should check out the Skyrim mod, vigilant.
I'm currently playing through it.
It's pretty good. Fair enough.
Skyrim wolf scrim wolf.
Have you seen the Breath of the Wild sequel trailer?
Yes, it looks interesting, although there wasn't really much shown.
Um, so it was it was Breath of the Mild.
Yes, nice.
Eldon ring with George R.R. Tolkien and tonaled software.
Wait, Wolf, the height of a person matters, too.
Like there's a difference between someone that's 200 pounds.
That's five foot and 200 pounds at six foot.
That's true. Wait and height.
I want a big, studly minotaur of a man. Absolutely.
Yeah, then we might actually.
That's another different job on you.
We say minotaur over here. You guys say minotaur.
Actually, I don't know how you pronounce it.
I don't know. I've heard it.
I've heard it. I've heard it both ways.
I said my no, right?
I always pronounce it minotaur because of crisis, too. Hmm.
I've always known it as minotaur,
but I heard it pronounces minotaur in an American game.
He was I don't know what game was, but point being, I was like, huh.
I think minotaur sounds cool to the minotaur, by the way.
That's just my, you know, something like personal subjective, objective opinion.
In my personal subjective opinion, I think minotaur sounds a lot cooler.
All right. Well, here it's called the minotaur
because it was from the island of Minos, right?
Or is it Minos?
Is it the island? It's the island Minos or Minos?
I have no idea.
Fuck. No, it's probably easier to find it. OK.
How to pronounce minus.
So if it's in Greek.
That that that that the.
Mayness, mayna.
May what? Minus Minus.
So dictionary dot com says minus,
which means minotaur would be probably correct.
Because, no, minus wasn't my bad.
Minos wasn't the island minus was he.
He's the one who ordered Daedalus to build the labyrinth
because his wife gave birth to the minotaur.
Minotore Yiannopoulos.
Minotore the Crete is the island.
Minos was the king of Crete.
So when his wife got pregnant with the minotaur minotaur,
he ordered Daedalus to build the lab.
God, how fucking shitty of a person.
What's that about?
With the horns in it. Oh, yeah.
More than just the horse, also the horse body.
The horse, but no way.
No, not horse body.
Just, well, the whole body or anything.
Well, I would probably be the size of a normal human baby.
But it's so much bigger one.
But it didn't have a bull's body.
It had a it had a man's body.
This is a bull's head.
I just yeah.
This is interesting.
The three videos I found on how to pronounce it.
Are all minotaur, but they've all got a really low approval rate.
And like they're all at 20, 20, 40, 933.
Kind of like a combination of a bull and a human body.
Yeah, monster body of a man.
Oh, in the head and the tail.
Oh, that's weird because it's got hooves.
All the well, it says it says it had the body of a man in the head
and tail of a bull. Yeah, that's what I thought. Yeah.
But in all the pictures that was a man's body, both said it's basically
it's basically a cow themed furry.
I mean, you can't really deny it.
All themed one, but it's like a yeah, it's like a guy with a bull head.
You're like a guy with a bull head.
I am a guy with a bull head.
Bull. All right, then.
Uh, Theo, I know this may seem random, but as an e-fab guest,
does someone deserve herpes from bathwater bought online?
They earned it.
They earned it.
Well, would you rather he paid five million dollars to eat a turd
sandwich once per month or be paid two million to watch the last Jedi
once per week severely, Mr. Masu?
Who's he? What?
You know, say that one more time.
Would you rather he paid five million?
Oh, maybe supposed to be B.
Would you rather be paid five million dollars to eat a turd sandwich
every month or be paid two million to watch the last Jedi once per week?
Two million to.
OK, so five million to eat a turd sandwich once a month
or two million to watch the last Jedi once a week.
I would definitely take the two million.
Yeah. And especially because I can manipulate the crap out of this.
I could be doing a lot of things like
this. Oh, yeah, I get it.
Sorry. I wasn't actually paying attention.
The the the fact that I could be like doing anything I want
while I'm watching, quote unquote, the last Jedi,
you know, I could be I could have some food.
I can hang out with a friend.
You know, there's lots of things you can do.
Maybe you do some exercises in the background.
They didn't specify anything.
I'm going to monkey pull this and just just do whatever I want.
And monkey's part. Oh, I don't know, man.
If it's the monkey's Paul, then that two million that you get
is going to because of some fucked up.
I mean, like I'm the monkey boy in this scenario is in like
I'm the one who takes you're just one.
Yeah. And my father, you're a monkey, Paul.
That's all you are. Oh, you're just you're just a stinky monkey's Paul.
Thanks, dude. I appreciate that.
From the bottom of my to the worst.
Yeah, it's not the CEO shut the hell up.
Wow. Someone paid money to see that.
Damn. You guys missed my first super chat.
Oh, no, I read it out.
It was the one where you ended it insane.
Hopper Hippo Croft. Hippo Croft.
I think it was Hippo Croft.
I remember reading it and saying, I mean, it's Hippo Hippo milk.
Hippo crotch.
Just to make sure.
Yeah, the only one.
It, you know, Hippo Croticle, unless there was another one.
Let me load up Hippocratic.
Let me load up the rest of today's to make sure.
Nobody likes to miss these things, you know.
Want to make sure.
Any of you guys watch the first episode of Dr.
Stone?
Yeah, no, I have never heard of that.
Yeah, I got the Hippo Hippo Croticle and the new one.
Someone said Minotaur is the Greek pronunciation,
while Minotaur is Latin.
So they're both technically correct.
Wait, that's not acceptable to opposing things cannot both be.
No, it's absolutely not.
We will vote for it on the next.
Very well, I will give everyone a week's time to decide.
Give this to decide to give this thought.
Give it a thought.
Give it thought.
There is a wrong answer.
We will determine what the wrong answer is.
We will literally use this poll to determine what is correct and not correct.
And we will tell other people in the world that we meet in our day to day lives
that you have voted upon it, and so it is it is it is decreed.
And if you don't think that an EFAP poll is good enough for you, then
OK. Because they were wrong on the deserved one.
So who knows what else they'll be.
They were right on the M&Ms, though.
So they're a little, you know, bit of a toss up.
Oh, I can't watch now.
Will we watch the upload tomorrow at work?
Just wanted to give you some money.
Just saw Spider-Man Far From Home.
I personally love dead.
I think it was at least as good as Homecoming. All right.
But wasn't Homecoming bad?
That was the following super challenge.
Where is my review of Gay World Rags?
Gay World.
I actually I let me actually check and see if that's on Steam.
I could. It's not.
I already looked.
Fuck. I don't believe you.
What do you mean? I refuse.
I tried to get it because I wanted the space.
You're gay. Well, oh, here it is.
Yeah, here it is. Oh, it's 50 cents.
It's it's on sale. Review it, Rags. Review Gay World.
Oh, Addy, it's cart.
Special promotion.
Gay World. It's there.
It's multiplayer.
If I'm giving you multiplayer.
No, it's just single player.
But it'll be worth it.
It's been spent.
I oh, I got it.
It's so funny if it had multiplayer.
It's like we create like we get everyone to buy it and play.
We like revive its player base.
But you could buy the Gay World Ultra Edition.
Oh, my game.
Eight seconds. It cut.
Well, here, let me see.
How how much is the world inside?
Um. How gay or megabytes, I think.
Need more vids with Danson Rags.
It's pure ASMR prawn.
Forty nine megabytes.
I believe there's going to be more along the way.
More vids of you dancing, right, Rags?
Um, maybe I've got I mean, I'm in some talks
with some very skilled animators within certain themed communities.
So I think I might have to hide the contents of my desktop
because I don't know.
I don't think I want anyone to walk in and see Gay World in my front.
You know, it actually took me less than a second to download Gay World
because I can download more than this game size in a single second.
My max right now for megabytes, I think that was really quick for me.
My peak for downloads is 57 megabytes a second.
So I could download this game in less than a second.
Which means that in a minute, I could download like 100 gay worlds.
And that's really philosophical.
And how many gay worlds? Yeah, yeah.
Um, I'll be a big minotaur of a man for you if you want me to be Rags.
Yes, please, Daddy.
But not for me.
A bathwater drank is a herpes earned Benjamin Baggins.
I agree.
It was in the Constitution.
I don't know what to tell you.
It's like, hey, Thomas, George,
I want to add this one little thing at the end.
It'll be. Oh, my God.
Can you can you copy paste that and put it in the Discord chat?
I think I might have to put that as one of the quotes of the effect book.
I can do that.
A bathwater drink is a herpes.
In you.
Can we watch the Mulan trailer real quick?
I have actually I've seen it.
It's not.
I mean, we're feeling all right.
Yeah, there's not much to comment on.
It's like the standard stuff as lame as that sounds.
I don't know.
It's not going to be much for us to work with.
And then we have risk of copyright stuff as well.
Good job finding the clever way around the terms.
I would expect nothing less from you.
Why thank you.
If that's directed at me or anyone else, thanks regardless.
Wait, Rags, this is important and will raise slash lower my opinion of you
depending on your answer.
How do you pronounce the leader of the Legion's name?
The leader of the Legion's?
I guess it would be the leader of the Legion and his name or her name.
I don't even know.
Which Legion?
I don't know which one.
I was from James Moore, so I guess if he's in chat, which Legion?
As you're referring to,
let me give me a second.
Legatus, uh.
Legionis, I believe.
Is that answer acceptable?
Legatus, Legionis.
It depends.
There's not Latin pronunciations are kind of lower the place.
There's like classical and Italian and there's church Latin pronunciations.
It's it's a new Vegas jazz thing.
Oh, leader of the Legion.
Um.
There's a new way when our own Oh, I think and I think in the game,
they pronounce it like Atlantis, at least the NCR pronounces it like that.
But the Legion would probably pronounce it Lanius.
Oh, Fallout, New Vegas.
I think so. Right.
Hopefully that answer was acceptable.
We have two means because like the the inside of the Legion,
because because like the NCR pronounces it sees, but Caesar himself
pronounces it Kaisar, which is the original Latin pronunciation,
which is also helpful for remembering how to spell Caesar.
Can you pronounce it Kaisar?
That's how we got the terms Kaisa and Zara fun fact.
Yeah, they both also also the man could make a great salad.
No one denies it.
The man could make a great salad.
And to this day, we remember how good his salads were.
Mm. In fact, I'm probably going to make myself one after this.
The bail in the stream, because I've got this stuff.
Oh, yeah, I deserve this.
Jesus Christ.
I guess you did snap all of the stupids out of the thing.
Well, if you went ahead and did it.
Oh, you have to seemingly be getting I'm glad I'm not this.
You've been getting fatter with each of these drawings.
I think, oh, man.
Is it going to be like a violent bail in join where you've popped
and it's just intestines everywhere?
Oh, no, no, no.
Legit, please, no, I don't see that.
But yeah, that actually wraps it up.
It's been we've got seven hours and 11 minutes.
Oh, fuck.
So thank you all.
Extreme much for the for the incredible double
if that means both images and videos.
They were wonderful.
And I managed to get that many in the course of a week.
Like I don't know.
It's a lot of me. It's a lot of me.
And I like the whole point was, you know, it's like memes
once per three episodes or so.
So I can build them up when it got to that.
I was like, no, I have to get rid of these.
You have to do it.
You have to have a whole burst of memes.
I'm a little I think in what I'm going to do is
is there a place where I can put some of the original assets
that I use for my channel into a place?
So if people want to make memes, they'll have some of the original images
to use and they don't have to cut out ones from videos.
If you upload them in like a big pack to Imgur
and then just give me the link, I can put it in the description.
Yeah, I could probably do that.
Yeah, not all of them, of course.
Oh, well, yeah, whichever ones you want to do.
Yeah, I could I could probably do that. Yeah.
If there's sources for the effect memes.
That would be good because I want to give
because people really do put in a lot of effort.
So I think it's good that, you know, they might be able to use the good stuff.
You know, stuck that stuff.
They once had us to keep all from escaping early.
I came back, didn't I?
Maybe that was that was the reason why.
Carterscape and Zach said salads are for rabbits and the gay.
And yet, thank you for the incredibly kind donations
on top of the the memories.
I hope you had fun with us looking into extra credits
and everything else that happened.
Theo, plug your channel.
Yeah, what channel?
Exactly. You're going to be you're a loser.
You're one of those people that has to be encouraged to, I guess, make one.
Go on, chat to it.
You like, oh, it's called it.
You know, ring you and stuff.
Froggle should just team up and make a channel together.
Do it. I mean, I'm I'm writing stuff.
Gay together and everything.
Yeah, don't don't expect anything.
He's writing things, but don't expect any things. Hmm.
I like talking about video games. What can I say?
Don't get mine.
But the talk session boot, I don't know what that means.
But yes, thank you for guesting and assisting us with extra credits.
I'm so sorry you didn't get to see your hero just right today.
But there's always next time you will be.
See, what have happened?
If not, why did extra credits have to release to me video?
You know, we've been fine if they hadn't done this all before.
But, yeah, next year, more than likely will be Sunday,
but who knows what's going to happen and who knows what guests they'll be
and who knows what the topic will be.
No promises so we don't disappoint other than all the things
we promised about episodes to come.
You know how it works.
It's been a wonderful night.
It just works.
I am glad that we've had so many ups and downs.
The 3D fact, though, I mean, two, two months crazy, sad.
Things are getting weird on this show.
But yes, is there anything else
anyone would like to say before we hop off?
Um, thanks for thanks for all the memes.
Like, seriously, some of them are really, really great.
The art, the memes, it really is something that we look forward to to watching.
I can't wait for the fucking Godzilla eFap movie.
The effort you guys put into that, into like the memes
and such like is, again, honestly, fucking crazy.
It is unbelievable the effort that goes into it.
It's like a whole sub genre on YouTube videos now.
Like this kind of network.
There's how many of we covered videos?
It's probably over 100, right?
Now I can.
It might like be around about 100 at this point.
We have a literal website with a whole page dedicated to the memes.
It's unbelievable.
And I think the biggest blast of them all got started with Kylo Ben.
I believe that was Kylo.
That was the first one that actually was the first one where I was like,
I better start storing them because they're actually like art pieces
that deserve to be remembered instead of.
Actually, I think Bayouin may have started it with that fucking creepy alien thing
from The Last Jedi.
That was the that was the first Bayouin drawing, wasn't it?
Yeah. Thank God.
I'm going to know that was your inspiration, that weird floaty ball sack thing.
What a weird web we spin up on this channel.
And with that, good night, everybody.
We shall see you next time.
Good night.
We love you.
